US	52761040	R2MRLV8WNUZDW8	0094504806	928987421	Kings in Grass Castles	Books	4	6	6	N	N	An Outback Family Saga	Though Australia, like North America, came to its present form through immigration and pioneering settlement, its history contains major differences, perhaps partly because everything happened much later, and partly because it was so far away from the mother countries.  Whatever the case, Australia's pioneering stories are not nearly as well known in the wider world as are those of the USA.  American mythology dwells long and lovingly on those pioneer journeys, the struggles with nature and the Indians, and the toughness of those who began to farm or ranch the new lands.  Australia no doubt has its own mythology, but not a powerful media industry to spread it around the world.  KINGS IN GRASS CASTLES is an exceptionally good family history that gives the authentic flavor of what it was like to explore and settle vast swathes of that vast part of the southern continent known as \\"the Outback\\".  If anyone wishes to acquire matter-of-fact knowledge about the period, they could do far worse than to read Mary Durack's family story, created from letters, diaries, from interviews and reminiscences years later, and from various documents found among her relatives.  She made an effort to present the whole thing, warts and all, minus mythology.<br /><br />Covering the period 1849-1898, Durack starts with the immigration of her paternal grandfather from Irish poverty to Sydney's sunny shores.  The book covers not only him, but many of his siblings and cousins, tracing their move to Goulburn, New South Wales, episodic ventures on the Victorian goldfields, and then a great migration with herds and all, up into the dry, flat country of western Queensland, at that time still inhabited by groups of Aborigines who had been there for untold thousands of years.  The family story is, on one hand, the story of struggles to build vast land empires of watered pasture in a country most prone to drought and sudden flood, to make a home where no European had ever lived before.  On the other, it is an amazing tale of constant movement---men on horseback driving cattle for thousands of miles, riding three hundred miles across country for the most trivial of reasons, going to the coast or Goulburn, coming back, sailing around to Perth, incessant motion for half a century.  Australia, more than North America, was (and is) a land of boom and bust.  With rain, cattle and sheep multiplied and brought great riches to the Durack family.  With drought or with financial collapse in the over-extended property markets of the cities, they could, and ultimately did, lose everything, their grass castles swept away by the winds of fate.  Undeterred, the Durack clan made an epic cross-continent march of close to 2,000 miles with a large herd of cattle, winding up in the Kimberley region of northern Western Australia, where they proceeded to establish yet another `castle' built of grass.  There, if drought was not such a big problem, ticks, labor shortage, diseases, distant markets, and Aborigines who resented intruders proved difficult.  If family fortunes rose and fell, we at least get a marvelous picture of what pioneers went through in Australian history, almost still within living memory.<br /><br />KINGS IN GRASS CASTLES provides an absorbing read, provokes admiration of the guts of these people, sorrow for the fate of the Aborigines, (brushed aside and often murdered), and disappointment that no one now will ever see that magnificent, untouched land again.  The only flaw is that, as a family history, Durack perhaps put in too much detail for the outsider, recording the to's and fro's of various relatives, confusing the reader with an amazing number of characters named Mary, Michael or Patrick !  Her writing style might be a little clunky, but believe me, you will never get such a true, \\"from the horse's mouth\\" picture anywhere else. An Australian classic.ther, it is an amazing tale of constant movement---men on horseback driving cattle for thousands of miles, riding three hundred miles across country for the most trivial of reasons, going to the coast or Goulburn, coming back, sailing around to Perth, incessant motion for half a century.  Australia, more than North America, was (and is) a land of boom and bust.  With rain, cattle and sheep multiplied and brought great riches to the Durack family.  With drought or with financial collapse in the over-extended property markets of the cities, they could, and ultimately did, lose everything, their grass castles swept away by the winds of fate.  Undeterred, the Durack clan made an epic cross-continent march of close to 2,000 miles with a large herd of cattle, winding up in the Kimberley region of northern Western Australia, where they proceeded to establish yet another `castle' built of grass.  There, if drought was not such a big problem, ticks, labor shortage, diseases, distant markets, and Aborigines who resented intruders proved difficult.  If family fortunes rose and fell, we at least get a marvelous picture of what pioneers went through in Australian history, almost still within living memory.   <br /> <br />KINGS IN GRASS CASTLES provides an absorbing read, provokes admiration of the guts of these people, sorrow for the fate of the Aborigines, (brushed aside and often murdered), and disappointment that no one now will ever see that magnificent, untouched land again.  The only flaw is that, as a family history, Durack perhaps put in too much detail for the outsider, recording the to's and fro's of various relatives, confusing the reader with an amazing number of characters named Mary, Michael or Patrick !  Her writing style might be a little clunky, but believe me, you will never get such a true, \\"from the horse's mouth\\" picture anywhere else. An Australian classic.	2005-10-06
US	52761040	R24AOPLG5W9E3I	0140058117	707147683	The Dragon's Village: An Autobiographical Novel of Revolutionary China	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Mild Portrait of a Rare Moment in History	As in so many countries around the world, China's landlords of the early and mid-20th century---a small minority---owned most of their country's land while the majority held little or none.  Taking advantage of the wealth and power land ownership gave them, the rich landowners exploited the villagers in their grasp in every conceivable way, while sometimes living a life of luxury and cultured ease behind the walls of their extensive compounds.  Even in dirt poor, remote areas, far inland, the landlords' life bore no resemblance to the life of the mass of peasants.  In some countries with such unequal distributions of wealth or land, change came gradually (western Europe)or with a foreign occupation (Japan), but in China change was suddenly imposed after the victory of the Chinese Communist Party in 1949.  This process has been described very vividly by William Hinton in \\"Fanshen\\" and \\"Iron Oxen\\", as well as by Jan Myrdal in \\"Report from a Chinese Village\\".  Almost overnight (historically speaking), land was confiscated from landlords and redistributed among the destitute, often-starved peasants and laborers.  Clothes, food supplies, and other property were also shared out.  Violence, petty local politics, and injustices  inevitably played a role in such a vast, far-reaching transformation for alas, people are always people, no matter what color flag they wave.  Still, without the destruction of the conservative class of landlords that sat atop the country like vultures, the modern China we see flowering (or moving, at least) in a million directions today would probably never have appeared.  China might now resemble more an enormous Philippines or Egypt.<br /><br />THE DRAGON'S VILLAGE provides an ant's eye view of this major event in human history, an event seldom thought about outside China now.  It is the semi-autobiographical tale of one bourgeois girl's journey to a poor, remote village in Gansu province to assist in the land reform.  While lyrically descriptive at times, the girl's own lack of understanding or perspective prevents us from thinking in a wide fashion about the whole process.  We read and perhaps realize in a very concrete way what individual cadres might have gone through at the time.  The story struck me as extremely honest with little attempt to write about anything not personally experienced.  While interesting from a social, historical, or political point of view, I would not call THE DRAGON'S VILLAGE great literature.  Anti-climax follows anti-climax, the end is disappointingly flat.  I believe that such an ending reflects reality, but art forms need not imitate life so exactly.  The author does not explore her personal trials and tribulations in a reflective manner, leaving us wondering what she felt ultimately.  In sum, for a historical moment of such excitement and importance, the novel is amazingly mild.  We appreciate the barren landscapes of northwestern China in winter, the descriptions of poverty and suspicion of the peasants.  However, the transformation process and meaning of the resistance to it are seriously underplayed.  I would recommend this book for university (or even high school) classes on the Chinese Revolution.tive at times, the girl's own lack of understanding or perspective prevents us from thinking in a wide fashion about the whole process.  We read and perhaps realize in a very concrete way what individual cadres might have gone through at the time.  The story struck me as extremely honest with little attempt to write about anything not personally experienced.  While interesting from a social, historical, or political point of view, I would not call THE DRAGON'S VILLAGE great literature.  Anti-climax follows anti-climax, the end is disappointingly flat.  I believe that such an ending reflects reality, but art forms need not imitate life so exactly.  The author does not explore her personal trials and tribulations in a reflective manner, leaving us wondering what she felt ultimately.  In sum, for a historical moment of such excitement and importance, the novel is amazingly mild.  We appreciate the barren landscapes of northwestern China in winter, the descriptions of poverty and suspicion of the peasants.  However, the transformation process and meaning of the resistance to it are seriously underplayed.  I would recommend this book for university (or even high school) classes on the Chinese Revolution.	2005-10-01
US	52761040	R15HJZ4XQCX76Q	B000BD83J6	876616364	Crescent Moon and Other Stories ((By Lao She))	Books	4	0	0	N	N	China from the ground up	The lot of the poor is never that enviable no matter where you look, but life for the urban poor in pre-revolutionary China was particularly dire.  In an atmosphere of severe corruption and oppression, poor men and women resorted to desperate means in order to survive.  Bandits, policemen, whores, ricksha pullers, petty officials, teachers, martial arts masters, craftsmen and street vendors tried to keep the wolf from the door any way they could.  Lao She's stories are full of life, colorful but heart-rending, humorous but tough.  He captures the chaos and poverty of those times: his earthy language seems to be well-translated into English.  Though his favorites in this collection are listed in a short introduction, I tended to like his choices the least, because he preferred the romantic and flowery to the down to earth and realistic.  My own favorites came from among the stories that portray Chinese life of those times (1905-1925) in vivid fashion.  Stories like \\"Black Li and White Li\\" (student revolutionaries), \\"Brother Yu Takes Office\\"  (an ex-bandit becomes a policeman and has to deal with his ex-\\"colleagues\\"), \\"The Soul-Slaying Spear\\" ( martial arts masters), \\"The Eyeglasses\\" (ricksha pullers and gamblers), and \\"The Fire Chariot\\" (characters aboard a train plus an amazingly vivid picture of a disaster) struck me as real gems.  Though the author does not go in for deep psychological portraits as is more common in Western or Japanese literature and uses the traditional Chinese storytelling style, I liked CRESCENT MOON very much.  His perspective is always humane.  The author obviously sympathizes with and admires the resilient characters that fill his pages.  If poverty had the Chinese of those times in a headlock, they never gave up, but laughed and lived right to the end.	2005-09-28
US	52761040	R20W7SAJOP2M7J	0809545039	326674779	Beneath the Red Banner	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Bequest of a doomed rare bird	The ivory billed woodpecker is a rare bird indeed.  Just imagine that you looked for it over decades, then located it, only to see it fly headlong into a large plate-glass window and die.  I feel rather the same way about Lao She.  In the century of China's turmoil between 1850 and 1950, only a few topnotch writers could emerge, people like Lu Xun, Mao Dun and Shen Congwen.  Lao She was one of this small group.  He grew to be a rare bird in the forest of literature, but was captured and killed.  Eventually politics cornered him.  His humanistic, humorous style did not please party bosses.  He doomed himself by being born a Manchu in pre-revolutionary times, by writing of life as he saw it before the Revolution, rather than life as Socialist Realism decreed it to be.  And he served the Communist Party, he believed in the changes that convulsed China.  They hounded him to death during the Cultural Revolution: I believe he drowned himself.  What a loss!<br /><br />Lao She couldn't write a bad story.  On the other hand, he could.  These two contradictory statements are illustrated perfectly in the unfinished BENEATH THE RED BANNER, which at 212 pages, is only a fraction of the novel he planned to write.  The first part, which deals with a character's first month on this ball of dirt, takes up 121 pages, a fantastically interesting description of life among the impoverished Manchu bannermen in Beijing in the last years of the 19th century.  It oozes humor, color, reality, and earthy dialogue.  OK, maybe it isn't deep philosophy, maybe there are no psychologically-revealing characterizations, but you can't get enough.  This is what Lao She excelled at.  His stories are genuine monuments to a certain period in Chinese history, that long-vanished Beijing life---poverty, corruption, polished bourgeois manners, stewed pork, orchid scented tobacco, esoteric hobbies and secret societies---still lives on his pages.  Suddenly, like a bolt of lightning, the mood and tone change.  The author begins to write `politically correct' descriptions and to idealize propaganda-poster characters without any criticism, certainly without a humorous glint in his eye.  Bad, greedy foreigners, sleazy Chinese running dogs, heroic bare-chested rebels---I felt sorry for Lao She, who obviously had to toe the line.  It didn't help him in the end: his past caught up with him.  Although you can buy this book as a single book, it really is two books.  One is vintage Lao She, the other is Lao She Lite.  I wonder what the book would have been if he could really have written as he wanted.  We will never know.e.  The author begins to write `politically correct' descriptions and to idealize propaganda-poster characters without any criticism, certainly without a humorous glint in his eye.  Bad, greedy foreigners, sleazy Chinese running dogs, heroic bare-chested rebels---I felt sorry for Lao She, who obviously had to toe the line.  It didn't help him in the end: his past caught up with him.  Although you can buy this book as a single book, it really is two books.  One is vintage Lao She, the other is Lao She Lite.  I wonder what the book would have been if he could really have written as he wanted.  We will never know.	2005-08-30
US	52761040	R2IBN72VJK6DLY	1558611827	639277324	Mulberry and Peach: Two Women of China	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Sisyphean Systers Psychic Splyt	Wars and violent politics separate millions from their families, homes, and traditions.  The disrupted roam the world---from the immigrant ghettoes of North America and Australia to the jungles of the Congo or the deserts of Sudan.  Bearing this life involves great pain, great forebearance, and internal strength.  Not everyone, especially not those who have a penchant for thinking, can stand the strain.  Twentieth Century history is filled with injured wanderers and millions who fell by the wayside, couldn't make that psychological leap from stability to instability, from a known world to an unknown one.  MULBERRY AND PEACH describes the orbit of one such unlucky planet, a Chinese woman who leaves home gambling on a trip to freedom from the Japanese invaders during World War II.  She winds up aboard a river ship marooned on rocks in the raging Yangtze River with a disparate cast of fellow castaways.  She leaves the Nationalist south for Beijing, only to be surrounded by the Communist beseigers who ultimately take the city, from which she flees south again, then to Taiwan.  None of her companions fit into any new visions of the world, none have real understanding of the times.  In Taiwan, she ends up hiding out in an attic for years, the wife of her Beijing lover, now turned embezzler of government funds on the lam.  She has a daughter who grows up a fugitive.  Eventually, the woman comes to the USA, where her complex political and sexual past catches up with her.  The faceless minions of the INS are hot on her trail.  Cruelty, indecision, sexual vacillation, continual separations....her endless search for self and stability cracks.  She invents Peach, a second, schizophrenic persona, denying any identity with Mulberry.  The book ends in mental shipwreck as it began with a physical one.<br /><br />I found Nieh Hualing's novel interesting due to Mulberry's slow descent into madness and schizophrenia, the intrusion of dreams, diaries, and strange visions or imaginings.  The first fifty-odd pages are clearer; all subsequent chapters get murkier and more abstract, just as if a person were sliding into insanity.  Very effective.  Chinese literature from post-revolutionary China often deals with class struggle, anti-Communist feelings, or straightforward lives of the common people.  This is an entirely different sort of Chinese novel in a very modern, strikingly written style. You may say that you couldn't follow the plot.  It is not so much a plot-novel but a cry, a dream, or a trajectory into the mental pits.  The amount of symbolism that a literary critic could trace here is astounding.  Mirrors of mirrors with a few distorting images thrown in among them.  The duality (or is it schizophrenia ?) abounds.  Japanese vs. Chinese, Communist vs. Nationalist, men vs. women, tradition vs. modernity, legal vs, illegal, American vs. Chinese, reality vs. dream, written vs. spoken, on and on.  Questions arise.  What is it to have no home ?  What is it when you are a stranger, an outcast wherever you go ?  Is the process a sisyphean one like emptying the sea with a spoon ?  Some survive, but some go mad.  Do you have to be mad to survive ?  These are questions you may ponder on reading this interesting novel.nings.  The first fifty-odd pages are clearer; all subsequent chapters get murkier and more abstract, just as if a person were sliding into insanity.  Very effective.  Chinese literature from post-revolutionary China often deals with class struggle, anti-Communist feelings, or straightforward lives of the common people.  This is an entirely different sort of Chinese novel in a very modern, strikingly written style. You may say that you couldn't follow the plot.  It is not so much a plot-novel but a cry, a dream, or a trajectory into the mental pits.  The amount of symbolism that a literary critic could trace here is astounding.  Mirrors of mirrors with a few distorting images thrown in among them.  The duality (or is it schizophrenia ?) abounds.  Japanese vs. Chinese, Communist vs. Nationalist, men vs. women, tradition vs. modernity, legal vs, illegal, American vs. Chinese, reality vs. dream, written vs. spoken, on and on.  Questions arise.  What is it to have no home ?  What is it when you are a stranger, an outcast wherever you go ?  Is the process a sisyphean one like emptying the sea with a spoon ?  Some survive, but some go mad.  Do you have to be mad to survive ?  These are questions you may ponder on reading this interesting novel.	2005-08-24
US	52761040	R3G25MHLYYU4Z5	0824815491	391545538	Snake's Pillow and Other Stories (Fiction from Modern China)	Books	3	0	1	N	Y	Angry view of China in poster colors	Many years ago, at the end of the Cultural Revolution, I visited China as part of a delegation from Australia.  We saw the official sights and heard the official views, didn't believe a lot of it, but came away impressed with the abilities and intelligence of Chinese people.  One of the official events we attended was a performance of \\"On the Docks\\", a rare, approved Chinese opera with a modern theme and modern choreography.  Even though it was awful in many ways, I still felt attracted to the colors, the movements, and the presentation of mawkishly earnest sentiments (which few might have believed in their hearts).  At that very time, millions of Chinese were undergoing \\"re-education\\" in the countryside, learning the political lessons to be gained by shoveling manure, eating bad food, and being resented by the actual peasants.  The author of this book, Zhu Lin, was one of them.<br /><br />  All the more strange (to my American eyes), then, that when she wrote, she employed a style close to \\"On the Docks\\"---bright primary colors, characters without depth, good guys and bad guys.  I did not find much psychological finesse here, more melodrama or bathos.  To top that off, she wrote of topics that could not have been welcome even in her more liberal times.  She criticized Communist party officials bitterly, she criticized the old and the new mercilessly, and then the re-emergence of vendors, salesmen, and all sorts of petty businessmen, creaming profits off pilfered state property.  So, though she writes bitter stories of the exploitation of women, injustices everywhere, and officials taking advantage of the simple people they are supposed to serve, she couches these stories in a style that I would have thought now long-abandoned.  A puzzling performance.  The last story, \\"Street Sketch\\", about a Shanghai street con-man is the best, but it ends very strangely, almost as if two disparate themes were welded crudely together.  I appreciated these stories as a glimpse of a Chinese writer unknown in the West, but I doubt if they would appeal to many readers.  The propaganda poster, the one-dimensional character still reverberate here.se of a Chinese writer unknown in the West, but I doubt if they would appeal to many readers.  The propaganda poster, the one-dimensional character still reverberate here.	2005-08-09
US	52761040	R22CJIN0M8N6ZP	0141007036	987571902	Imperial Spain: 1469-1716	Books	5	55	61	N	N	A Distant Warning	Spain experienced a metamorphosis in the 16th century.  It had been a divided country battling with an age-old enemy.  Its separate parts worked more against each other than with each other; Castile concentrated on the fight to reconquer the land from the Muslims, while Aragon and Catalonia fixed their sights on a Mediterranean trading empire and control of southern Italy.  Under Ferdinand and Isabella, well-known as the patrons of Columbus, the Moors were conquered, the Jews expelled, and all three main parts of Spain joined under one crown.  Spain soon acquired a vast empire in the Americas and Asia.  Through marriage, its fortunes were hitched to the Habsburg crown, thus despatching Spanish arms and treasure to the endless European wars in Italy, Germany, and the Low Countries.  Spain rose to a certain proud zenith, both in war and in administration of its vast lands.  The arts began to flourish.  Portugal came under the Spanish crown for sixty years.  The glory days did not last long as history goes.  By 1640, Spain had crashed.  It was bankrupt, taxed-to-the-limit, and losing everywhere.  Its European empire fell away, even Portugal threw off Castilian rule.  Government fell to mostly incapable favorites of the weak and indecisive kings.  Bereft of a middle class, the only good income was to be had from the church or the court.  In short, the imperial greatness, which had shot across the world like a brilliant comet, had winked out in financial collapse and administrative failure, though literature and painting continued to shine.  Poor education and religious ultra-conservatism had denied Spain the leaders that might have saved it.<br /><br />Elliott's history of Imperial Spain paints a clear picture of the reasons for this abrupt rise and decline.  He concentrates not on battles, foreign adventures or any sort of \\"glory\\", but on administration, finance, the strong differences between Castile and Aragon/Catalonia, the Inquisition, trade, and domestic policy.  I admit that such a mix may not be everybody's cup of tea, but if you are serious about learning the reasons for Spain's brief term at the top, you will certainly need to read this work, an amazingly complete study that stands with some of the best history books ever written.  Though the title contains the years 1469-1716, the vast bulk of the book concerns only the sixteenth century.<br /><br />It seemed to me, as I read IMPERIAL SPAIN, that the book should be required reading in Washington, but of course our \\"leaders\\" are not interested in history.  They reflect in their actions an uncanny resemblance to that Spain of its glory days, thinking that glory can never end, that the mighty shall not fall.  Since we seem unable to avoid foreign wars, our education system is inadequate, we are facing a rising tide of religious obscurantism, and worst of all, we operate at a huge deficit, there are some disturbing parallels.  Could we learn from the history of Imperial Spain ?  No doubt.  Will we ?  No way.y.  I admit that such a mix may not be everybody's cup of tea, but if you are serious about learning the reasons for Spain's brief term at the top, you will certainly need to read this work, an amazingly complete study that stands with some of the best history books ever written.  Though the title contains the years 1469-1716, the vast bulk of the book concerns only the sixteenth century.   <br /> <br />It seemed to me, as I read IMPERIAL SPAIN, that the book should be required reading in Washington, but of course our \\"leaders\\" are not interested in history.  They reflect in their actions an uncanny resemblance to that Spain of its glory days, thinking that glory can never end, that the mighty shall not fall.  Since we seem unable to avoid foreign wars, our education system is inadequate, we are facing a rising tide of religious obscurantism, and worst of all, we operate at a huge deficit, there are some disturbing parallels.  Could we learn from the history of Imperial Spain ?  No doubt.  Will we ?  No way.	2005-07-27
US	52761040	R33IWU3I5J9EF1	0674179560	467677689	Cultural Psychology: A Once and Future Discipline	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Looking for Mr. Discipline	In Anthropology, the word \\"culture\\" still has a certain resonance, even if it has resonated a bit too much over the last century !  So, as an anthropologist with a very imperfect grasp of psychology and zero experience of practical research in it, I took up this book in order to widen my horizons.  I thought I would discover a link between two fields that should be closer.  After all, I shared Cole's feeling that the more or less artificial nineteenth century division of social and humane sciences has run its course.  I hoped Cole would somehow connect studies in psychology to anthropological work that I knew, for example, the work of Robert I. Levy on Tahiti, and the works of Sudhir Kakar, Reynaldo Maduro, Morris Carstairs, and Stanley N. Kurtz on India.  I did not find any reference to these or other such work.  I could not find any real connection to current anthropology whatsover, though Cole summarizes old concerns and old conclusions very well.  He also provides a very insightful chapter on the evolution of thought, language and culture via studies of primates.  So, while, I found interesting material, I couldn't really connect it to cultural anthropology as we know it today in any strong sense.  Much of the book concerns constructed laboratory experiments with school kids around the topic of cognitive development and the task of overcoming learning disabilities.  While useful and relevant work to society, I could not link this with \\"culture\\" in any real sense, because what the experiments tended to do was try to escape the participants' normative culture and build instead an entirely artificial, controllable, measurable culture.  Cole says at one point (p.176) that some researchers assume that \\"when one abstracts activities from their cultural context there is a meaningful sense in which they can be considered the same activity.\\"  It seems to me he then questions the validity of this, but in my view he could not escape making that assumption in his own work after all.  I admit that these so-called \\"shortcomings\\" are the result of my personal approach to the book, not really those of the author.  Methodological concerns may divide Anthropology and Psychology as much as anything, as Cole himself says.  Still, CULTURAL PSYCHOLOGY deals almost purely with the concerns of psychology, much less with culture or history.<br /><br />  Cole is concerned about the directions his field has taken.  He wants to bring culture to a more central role in Psychology and designates his wide study \\"Cultural Psychology\\" to emphasize this.  In order to back up his argument, he reviews a tremendous amount of literature on many topics.  This would be very useful for anyone with an interest in this general area.  He brings in the work of Russian psychologists whom, I suspect, are little known in the West.  But, strangely, though he says he's using their work as a principal building block of his new Psychology, he criticizes a lot of their assumptions.  I could not isolate their main contribution to his argument, other than to say that they considered culture and history important parts of the cognitive development of every human.  In short, CULTURAL PSYCHOLOGY is an attempt to establish a branch discipline of psychology and become a textbook for that discipline.  It is not easy reading, but written with honesty and wide-ranging research.  I will leave it to others, more qualified than I, to say whether it succeeds or not, but it certainly provoked a lot of thought in the brain of an anthropologist.  That's never bad.k after all.  I admit that these so-called \\"shortcomings\\" are the result of my personal approach to the book, not really those of the author.  Methodological concerns may divide Anthropology and Psychology as much as anything, as Cole himself says.  Still, CULTURAL PSYCHOLOGY deals almost purely with the concerns of psychology, much less with culture or history.    <br /> <br />   Cole is concerned about the directions his field has taken.  He wants to bring culture to a more central role in Psychology and designates his wide study \\"Cultural Psychology\\" to emphasize this.  In order to back up his argument, he reviews a tremendous amount of literature on many topics.  This would be very useful for anyone with an interest in this general area.  He brings in the work of Russian psychologists whom, I suspect, are little known in the West.  But, strangely, though he says he's using their work as a principal building block of his new Psychology, he criticizes a lot of their assumptions.  I could not isolate their main contribution to his argument, other than to say that they considered culture and history important parts of the cognitive development of every human.    In short, CULTURAL PSYCHOLOGY is an attempt to establish a branch discipline of psychology and become a textbook for that discipline.  It is not easy reading, but written with honesty and wide-ranging research.  I will leave it to others, more qualified than I, to say whether it succeeds or not, but it certainly provoked a lot of thought in the brain of an anthropologist.  That's never bad.	2005-07-07
US	52761040	R21RZPLRQ1289J	068480154X	655275342	Tender Is the Night	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Psychiatrist Weds Patient, Goes to Pot	If anyone ever paid close attention to the old literary dictum, \\"write what you know\\", it must have been F. Scott Fitzgerald.  His novels bear a striking resemblance to his own life.  TENDER IS THE NIGHT does not qualify as an exception---it contains alcoholism, mental illness, and the post WW I, Jazz Age American youth scene in Europe; the Riviera, Paris, Switzerland, and Italy, central themes in the legend of Fitzgerald himself.  Not having read or heard much about this novel beforehand, at first I felt I was reading a second-rate \\"Hangin' with the Homies over There in Frantz\\" or maybe \\"Rosemary Crashes the In-Crowd\\".  As the novel unfolded, though, I began to appreciate its wider vision and deeper concerns.  By the end, I felt that here was another chapter of the Great American Novel, a single version of which may never exist and maybe cannot possibly exist, but which may be perceived as several books that comprise the Great American Story when taken as one.  If the rise from poverty to wealth and power is one strand of the `American story', then surely the descent from wealth and respectability to the lower depths is another.  While Dick Diver's crash is not as complete as Hurstwood's in \\"Sister Carrie\\", he certainly winds up expelled from the Promised Land, [barred from his former social world] practicing medicine in ever smaller New York towns, his European days of glory long disappeared.<br /><br />Fitzgerald is able to paint a slowly-revealed picture of talent and wit being worn down and defeated.  The forces that accomplish this are subtle and not easily named.  Dick, the rising young star of psychoanalysis, marries a beautiful patient who suffers from childhood abuse by her own father.  She is extremely wealthy to boot.  Together they form the core of a shining group of wealthy but rather aimless expatriates in those halcyon days of the dollar after World War I.  Great things are expected from Dick, but ever-increasing alcohol and dissipation rob him of his career.  He pours his energy into caring for and curing Nicole, his wife.  Slowly, dependence on her wealth, living the life of a sybarite, and his decreasing attention to work turn the tables.  She becomes the strong one; he begins to decline, has inconclusive affairs, ends up losing everything including Nicole.  The sense of loss is palpable.  \\"Her eyes followed his figure until it became a dot and mingled with the other dots in the summer crowd.\\"  A number of interesting minor characters and excellent description of life at that time, in those places, of that class, bring the novel to an extremely high level, along with Fitzgerald's mastery of dialogue that reflects the times perfectly.  TENDER IS THE NIGHT is not only a great novel, it is an unforgettable portrait of an era that has completely vanished, yet which, with the help of movies, we still feel almost able to touch.m of his career.  He pours his energy into caring for and curing Nicole, his wife.  Slowly, dependence on her wealth, living the life of a sybarite, and his decreasing attention to work turn the tables.  She becomes the strong one; he begins to decline, has inconclusive affairs, ends up losing everything including Nicole.  The sense of loss is palpable.  \\"Her eyes followed his figure until it became a dot and mingled with the other dots in the summer crowd.\\"  A number of interesting minor characters and excellent description of life at that time, in those places, of that class, bring the novel to an extremely high level, along with Fitzgerald's mastery of dialogue that reflects the times perfectly.  TENDER IS THE NIGHT is not only a great novel, it is an unforgettable portrait of an era that has completely vanished, yet which, with the help of movies, we still feel almost able to touch.	2005-06-15
US	52761040	R2TJVT9BARR8FV	0671779974	476491260	Turkish Reflections: A Biography of a Place	Books	3	24	31	N	N	Turkey---It's More Than Just Ruins	Everyone who writes a book about their travels around the USA, or on life in some part of it, is not required to write sections on the genocide of the American Indians or on slavery.  They MIGHT, but it's not how we need to judge the quality of the book.  Similarly, books on Turkey do NOT have to have judgements or pronouncements about Armenians.  Turkey is a lot more than that awful chapter in human history---and as we all know, there are a lot of awful chapters in almost every part of the world, especially if a major power is concerned.  If foreign writers are going to discuss that particular series of events in Turkey's past, they should attempt to get their facts straight, or at least present both sides of the question and let readers decide.  I believe this book could have let the whole issue drop.  No matter what you think, it is true that modern Turks cannot be held responsible for what happened 90 or more years ago.<br /><br />The author lived three years in Bodrum, a coastal town in Turkey, back in the 1970s.  Sixteen years later, having written a very successful novel set in the country, she travelled around to all the places she'd not seen the first time.  She had connections: people at the US Embassy, Turkish professors, and even a famous Turkish-American music mogul.  How she happened to know all these people is never explained.  The reader accompanies Settle on a voyage through the ruins of ancient civilizations and through her own past---but just the three years in Turkey, not any of the rest.  She waxes long and romantically over the variegated ruins that carpet Turkey, from all the civilizations that have come and gone---Hittite, Phrygian, Urartian, Greek, Roman, Byzantine, Seljuk, and Ottoman---and even remains from the War of Independence in 1920-22.  While ruins can make you ponder on the past or on the follies of Mankind, I don't think a country can, or should, be judged on its ruins.  What happened to the daily life of the modern Turks, their politics, their plans, their economic successes and problems, education, women, Islam, music, food, literature, art?  We learn that Turks are sturdy and hospitable, tough and charming.  I don't quarrel with that, but it's shortchanging readers to call this a book on Turkey.  It's a book about a trip to see ancient ruins.  OK, fair enough, if that's your bag you'll disagree with my three stars.  But Settle repeats herself quite often, using similar phrases or images, and she likes to romanticize her own feelings.  TURKISH REFLECTIONS is really that: Turkey reflects the author here and she reflects it back.  Any word of criticism is like a hen's tooth. Though sensitively composed, I wouldn't recommend this book for people who want to understand more about a country in the real world.heir politics, their plans, their economic successes and problems, education, women, Islam, music, food, literature, art?  We learn that Turks are sturdy and hospitable, tough and charming.  I don't quarrel with that, but it's shortchanging readers to call this a book on Turkey.  It's a book about a trip to see ancient ruins.  OK, fair enough, if that's your bag you'll disagree with my three stars.  But Settle repeats herself quite often, using similar phrases or images, and she likes to romanticize her own feelings.  TURKISH REFLECTIONS is really that: Turkey reflects the author here and she reflects it back.  Any word of criticism is like a hen's tooth. Though sensitively composed, I wouldn't recommend this book for people who want to understand more about a country in the real world.	2005-06-12
US	52761040	R22MJ4JD9PL4PQ	0140234632	221384586	The Patriot Chiefs: A Chronicle of American Indian Resistance; Revised Edition	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Forgotten heroes, vanquished nations	Might always makes right, until it's too late, and we say it was wrong after all.  Surely one of the biggest illegal land grabs in history took place right here in River City, otherwise known as the USA.  Over a period of three hundred years, the original inhabitants of this vast country were dispossessed of nearly everything---their land, their pride, their language, their culture, and in many cases, their right to live.  Brushed off as \\"savages\\", \\"primitive\\", \\"children of nature\\" and by other edifying epithets, by 1900, the surviving American Indians had been confined to a gulag archipelago of reservations, some of only a few acres---though these lands were at least nominally controlled by them.  Alcohol and disease had brought them low, combined with massacres and forced migrations.  And these were the lucky ones !  Many tribes, especially in the east, lost everything, reduced to remnants whose language and culture were all but destroyed, barely managing to hang on amidst the sea of uncaring white immigrants.  Although the 20th century proved a time of resurgence for many Native Americans, many problems still remain.  We've seen the endless Hollywood movies about Indians.  John Wayne, such a decent guy, if a bit quick on the trigger, always gets the better of the Indians.  That stock image of Indians is rampant.  But how did these people really react to the European invasion ?  Did they just run whooping out of the forest into the guns of the \\"sturdy white troopers\\" ?  No, I don't think so.  They were a lot smarter, but they got outnumbered, and their own internal dissensions helped to do them in too.  If Alvin Josephy writes from the point of a white man and does not live up to the strictures of political correctness of 35 years later, he certainly is not \\"anti-Indian\\"; he illustrates the problems of unifying a mosaic of peoples, shows the whites as generally brutal, greedy, and treacherous, at the same time not trying to show the Indians as angels either.<br /><br />Throughout the three centuries of conflict over North America, Indians consistently produced leaders of high quality who tried desperately to stem the tide, to stop the steady loss of lands.  That they ultimately did not succeed does not say anything about their character.  Josephy has written a detailed history of nine of the most successful leaders, those who most challenged the European invaders, their armies and all.  Starting from the nearly mythical Hiawatha, who unlike the hero of Longfellow's epic, did not live in Minnesota, but in upstate New York, he follows the advancing line of the colonists across the continent, to end with the inspiring tale of the Nez Perces led by Chief Joseph.  \\"King Philip\\" of New England, whose real name was Metacom, was the first to try to build a pan-tribal alliance against the land grabbers.  He was followed by such men as Pope of the Pueblo peoples, Pontiac, and Tecumseh.  Asi-Yaholo (known to history as Osceola) of the Seminoles, Black Hawk of the Sauk, and Crazy Horse of the Lakota round out the roster of famous Indian leaders.  Though I felt that the Crazy Horse chapter contained too many extraneous details of the comings and goings of Indian bands and white troopers, in general THE PATRIOT CHIEFS is very well-written, bringing in Indian origins, culture, and ways of life.  Though the Indians ultimately lost, you cannot fail to be impressed with their courage and determination to defend their homes and people.  Perhaps the USA is the \\"land of the brave\\", because all human beings possess bravery in varying quantities.  Reading this book, I would have to question \\"land of the free\\"...free for whom ?  Nearly all these leaders were betrayed, their peoples exiled or killed, and every agreement broken.  We did get their land for free.  It is all a saddening, depressing tale, but definitely worth reading.<br /> <br />Throughout the three centuries of conflict over North America, Indians consistently produced leaders of high quality who tried desperately to stem the tide, to stop the steady loss of lands.  That they ultimately did not succeed does not say anything about their character.  Josephy has written a detailed history of nine of the most successful leaders, those who most challenged the European invaders, their armies and all.  Starting from the nearly mythical Hiawatha, who unlike the hero of Longfellow's epic, did not live in Minnesota, but in upstate New York, he follows the advancing line of the colonists across the continent, to end with the inspiring tale of the Nez Perces led by Chief Joseph.  \\"King Philip\\" of New England, whose real name was Metacom, was the first to try to build a pan-tribal alliance against the land grabbers.  He was followed by such men as Pope of the Pueblo peoples, Pontiac, and Tecumseh.  Asi-Yaholo (known to history as Osceola) of the Seminoles, Black Hawk of the Sauk, and Crazy Horse of the Lakota round out the roster of famous Indian leaders.  Though I felt that the Crazy Horse chapter contained too many extraneous details of the comings and goings of Indian bands and white troopers, in general THE PATRIOT CHIEFS is very well-written, bringing in Indian origins, culture, and ways of life.  Though the Indians ultimately lost, you cannot fail to be impressed with their courage and determination to defend their homes and people.  Perhaps the USA is the \\"land of the brave\\", because all human beings possess bravery in varying quantities.  Reading this book, I would have to question \\"land of the free\\"...free for whom ?  Nearly all these leaders were betrayed, their peoples exiled or killed, and every agreement broken.  We did get their land for free.  It is all a saddening, depressing tale, but definitely worth reading.	2005-05-26
US	52761040	R1A1XN4EGQMQHB	B0006D7EDW	341114072	My Reminiscences as a Cowboy (Paper Books)	Books	3	14	16	N	N	Life Imitates Art.....a Little Too Much !	I started reading Frank Harris' memoirs with a great deal of interest.  He'd come to Chicago as a fresh-faced, enthusiastic Irish kid, \\"straight off the boat\\", but through hard work and personal service had commended himself to some Westerners with whom he soon became partners.  Pretty good for a hotel bellhop !  But still, maybe it could have been true.  Then, he rode off for eighteen months' adventures in Texas and New Mexico, purchasing, raiding, and driving cattle, sprinkled with gunfights with the Indians, duels and horseraces with Mexican grandees, and the hijinks of bored cowboys.  Miraculous escapes and great physical feats abound.  As I read, I began to feel that some o' these here scenes was a mite familiar.  Sure enough, I decided, I'd definitely spotted them in Hollywood movies.  Frank Harris' life resembled a movie, sure as shootin'.  At last I reached the point where after escaping a possible Indian attack, as he and his companions drove a huge herd north through Texas, he intoned that just a few years later, General Custer and his men were wiped out by the same Indians close to that very spot.  Well, sir, I may be a sucker, but I ain't that big of a one !  As I recall from my school days, the Little Big Horn was way up in Montana, or it used to be.  Shoot, I guess you never can tell.  But still, I got plumb suspicious.  I looked on the internet.  Seems Frank Harris had raised a few doubts in others' minds too.  Maybe because at the time when he said he was fightin' Indians and ridin', ropin' and shootin', he was only around five years old !  Course I could be underestimatin' him.<br /><br />  If you don't take this as a gen-u-wine autobiography, but just as a cowboy tale, it can be enjoyable.  The old fashioned attitudes to Indians and Mexicans might make you feel more than a little weary, but that was show biz, back in 1930, when he wrote.  And, you might recognize a few scenes because after all, Frank Harris' life was turned into one or two films.  Or was it that cowboy films turned into his life ?  I give up.ms.  Or was it that cowboy films turned into his life ?  I give up.	2005-05-24
US	52761040	R1M9CI0P3TGFFQ	0375757023	834895535	The Ox-Bow Incident (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Necktie Party on the Road to Baghdad	Sometimes books and authors slip right off the charts.  I don't know why.  Plenty of unworthy works are discussed years after the demise of the writers or after their comet-like flash across the skies of pop fiction.  For example, Walter Van Tilburg Clark's THE OX-BOW INCIDENT is hardly ever mentioned anymore.  If you draw up your list of the top one hundred American novels, it's pretty much guaranteed that this work won't be on there.  Yet, I do feel it is a classic.  Director William Wellman made a film of it way back in 1943 with Henry Fonda, and though the film still resonates to some degree, it may look a bit stilted to modern viewers.  As usual, the film-makers changed some of the main themes, created \\"heroes\\", and came to a moralistic conclusion different from the one in the book.<br /><br />THE OX-BOW INCIDENT is a serious work of fiction, wrapped in the familiar disguise of a Western, complete with horses, dialect, guns, ropes, sheriff and posses.  But don't let that coloring fool you.  The fast-paced novel (it's only 217 pages) contains a great card game-cum-duel between keyed-up cowboys, a stagecoach encounter in a midnight mountain pass, the argument among men over the fate of the captured \\"rustlers\\", and the final denouement.  But in the midst of all the atmosphere lie the key ideas---the dichotomy between men who think for themselves and men who go along with the crowd, between those who treasure justice at all costs, and those who wish for simple revenge with a mob behind them and some alcohol inside them.  A major question has to do with law.  Does not law spring from the conscience of society ?  If it does, then men acting without the law constitute a direct attack on everyone.  But what to do when there are lawless men and little justice available ?  Should we sit there and swallow criminality ?  But if people take the law into their own hands, the law is destroyed, because it cannot exist as the writ of one man or an angry group.  How can people overcome their fear of the crowd, their fear of being scorned by others, to do the right thing ?  These are serious issues played out in Nevada in the year 1885 in a remote valley where rustling had been occurring and murder alleged.  The author could have been making an analogy to possible rise of fascism in the USA, a phenomenon which would have heralded the collapse of the law and justice and the rise of bully-boy rule, when Hitlers and Mussolinis could egg crowds on to mob action.<br /><br />  When there is a threat to society how should we react ?  We must stand up to fight it for sure, but sticking to the law.  Otherwise we become what we wish to conquer.  When terrorists attack us, should we become terroristic ?  How many \\"rustlers\\" have we \\"hanged\\" wrongly in Iraq ?  This novel is not outdated in the least.  It is a beacon of wisdom for freedom and justice in a top literary form.  That's why it's worth reading and that's why I'm giving it five stars.ople overcome their fear of the crowd, their fear of being scorned by others, to do the right thing ?  These are serious issues played out in Nevada in the year 1885 in a remote valley where rustling had been occurring and murder alleged.  The author could have been making an analogy to possible rise of fascism in the USA, a phenomenon which would have heralded the collapse of the law and justice and the rise of bully-boy rule, when Hitlers and Mussolinis could egg crowds on to mob action.   <br /> <br />   When there is a threat to society how should we react ?  We must stand up to fight it for sure, but sticking to the law.  Otherwise we become what we wish to conquer.  When terrorists attack us, should we become terroristic ?  How many \\"rustlers\\" have we \\"hanged\\" wrongly in Iraq ?  This novel is not outdated in the least.  It is a beacon of wisdom for freedom and justice in a top literary form.  That's why it's worth reading and that's why I'm giving it five stars.   <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-05-18
US	52761040	RHPE08TF9ZRMX	1585670960	974847528	Turkey Unveiled: A History of Modern Turkey	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Modern Turkish History from A to B	In the continual maelstrom and barrage of international news, it is hard to keep focus on any place that is not the site of wars or natural disasters.  Even elections that make the front pages for a day or two soon disappear forever---the changes incurred thereby never apparent until a few years later, when the next election comes around.  Modern Turkey, which has not participated in any external wars (except for its Korean War soldiers) or suffered invasion since the 1920s, often gets shortchanged.  Earthquakes have shattered lives from time to time, the last major one in 1999.  Though non-specialists like me may be more or less aware of the slow progession from Ataturk's radical reforms and remaking of the Turkish nation to the industrial, financial power of today with strong European aspirations, the details are not all that well-imprinted in our minds.  We cannot look back on decades of consistent news coverage.  So, I was very glad to find the Popes' book four years ago.  I thought it would fill in the large gaps in my knowledge.  I've just read it.  It definitely filled in some gaps.<br /><br />Authors can write modern histories in many ways, but it probably helps if they are historians and like to use broad brushes.  Certainly, modern Turkish history has some wide themes---the modernization process in the economy; the slow transformation of culture from traditional Turco-Islamic to one more mixed with European elements; solving the question of whether Turkey is a mono-ethnic state or a multicultural mosaic; Turkey's relations with her neighbors, with the great powers, and with the new Turkic nations of Central Asia; the absorption of Turkic refugees from many places; the struggle between secular and religious politicians and its corollary, the struggles between left and right, and between military and civilian; the opening of the country to foreign influences of all kinds.  There may be many more.  I cannot say that the authors of TURKEY UNVEILED ignored these questions.  On the contrary, you will find considerable material on all of them.  However, what I found difficult, and ultimately disappointing, was that they retained the style of political reportage throughout.  They observed Turkey through a tight screen of political detail, not as well-edited as it might have been.  You are caught in a blow-by-blow description of Turkish politics from the early 1940s up to the end of the 20th century.  While this might be great for someone who wants to know all the comings and goings of Turkish politicians---Inonu, Menderes, Evren, Ecevit, Demirel, Ozal, Turkes, Ciller, and Erbakan---not to mention a host of lesser figures, the trees definitely blocked the forest in this volume.  I felt that all the main issues got lost in detail which at times descended to trivia.  While I felt sure that the Popes had a lot of Turkish experience, I also felt that the task of changing data into history overwhelmed them.  On top of this, history is not only about people at the top and national issues.  It used to be, but times have changed.  Daily life (and changes in daily life) for the average Turk is almost completely absent.  We focus on the bigwigs.  I think a major book on modern Turkish history in English for non-specialists, taking us to the end of the century, is still to be written.  And by the way, Turkey was unveiled in 1925.  It doesn't have to be done again.these questions.  On the contrary, you will find considerable material on all of them.  However, what I found difficult, and ultimately disappointing, was that they retained the style of political reportage throughout.  They observed Turkey through a tight screen of political detail, not as well-edited as it might have been.  You are caught in a blow-by-blow description of Turkish politics from the early 1940s up to the end of the 20th century.  While this might be great for someone who wants to know all the comings and goings of Turkish politicians---Inonu, Menderes, Evren, Ecevit, Demirel, Ozal, Turkes, Ciller, and Erbakan---not to mention a host of lesser figures, the trees definitely blocked the forest in this volume.  I felt that all the main issues got lost in detail which at times descended to trivia.  While I felt sure that the Popes had a lot of Turkish experience, I also felt that the task of changing data into history overwhelmed them.  On top of this, history is not only about people at the top and national issues.  It used to be, but times have changed.  Daily life (and changes in daily life) for the average Turk is almost completely absent.  We focus on the bigwigs.  I think a major book on modern Turkish history in English for non-specialists, taking us to the end of the century, is still to be written.  And by the way, Turkey was unveiled in 1925.  It doesn't have to be done again.   <br />	2005-05-12
US	52761040	R17ECR1F2VYIY0	0312295219	814353780	Global Transformations: Anthropology and the Modern World	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Painting Yourself into a Corner	Without any doubt Trouillot's book has been reviewed in scholarly journals by his colleagues around the world.  They have mounted either learned attacks or heaped learned praise on his work.  I never read any such reviews.  Though I can call myself \\"anthropologist\\" with some justification, I cannot say that I have ever moved in the rarefied atmosphere of ratiocination that surrounds GLOBAL TRANSFORMATIONS.  I have not engaged in such debates, perhaps from lack of ability, perhaps also from lack of desire to do so.  This book is aimed at the highest level of scholars; it is extremely difficult, but if you discipline yourself to hack through the dense jungle of ideas and verbiage, you will glean a rich harvest of  thoughts to consider on a wide variety of topics.<br /><br />GLOBAL TRANSFORMATIONS discusses the previous and future directions of the field of Anthropology in the light of globalization.  It is a strong critique of almost everything that has been done up to the present.  Anthropology, says the author, has ignored history to its own peril.  Anthropologists have fetishized field work--making it into a ritual beloved for its own sake----and continually tried to describe discreet cultures, rather than link their chosen area or people up to wider processes and trends.  Anthropology has been too fascinated with \\"the Other\\" a.k.a. the Savage.  Trouillot makes a big point of arguing that globalization is hardly new, that it is not just a phenomenon of the 1990s and after, but that in their search for the pure, untrammelled \\"savage\\", anthropologists did not acknowledge this.  There are so many ideas in this book that it reminds me of a smoker who lights one cigarette with another, a continuous cycle of smoke, a filmy tower of ideas that reach up to the stars.  Are they all firmly anchored to the earth ?  Maybe, maybe not.  While there are occasional concrete examples given in the text, and they are excellent, many times I felt as if I had to take it all on faith, not a style that I relish in anthropology books.  Trouillot's criticisms are trenchant and well-argued, they are legion.  He manages to disparage nearly everyone and all work done so far.  As for work that he approves, only a few minor works seem to get the nod.  His arguments cover the relationship between academe and politics too.  He delineates two models, a nineteenth century one and one that arose in the 1960s.  Saying that both are flawed, he hopes that anthropologists could work out a new \\"model of engagement\\" that would better reflect the relationship between political power and academic work.  Certainly the relationship between power and<br /><br />anthropologists has been problematic over the whole time the field has existed.<br /><br />Arriving at the end of this short work of 139 pages (plus notes)-which took me nearly a month to read---my feeling was that I had been painted into a corner.  Which way to turn ?  Every action seemed politically nave or incorrect, if I wanted to describe life in some corner of Indonesia or Uruguay, I would have to relate my writing to the legion of negative forces abroad in this world, to weave my way through a vast minefield of caveats and no-nos.  The brilliant mass of ideas in the book produced a great gloom in me; I felt that it would be better to stay home and grow strawberries.  But, if anthropology is your field, you can't avoid reading this book.  If you are young, perhaps you will have the enthusiasm to work out a way in which Trouillot's critique could be coupled with a plan of action.  I should say that though GLOBAL TRANSFORMATIONS had a rather depressing effect on me, it is the most interesting or challenging book that I've read for several years.  It made me think---perhaps that's why it depressed me.n faith, not a style that I relish in anthropology books.  Trouillot's criticisms are trenchant and well-argued, they are legion.  He manages to disparage nearly everyone and all work done so far.  As for work that he approves, only a few minor works seem to get the nod.  His arguments cover the relationship between academe and politics too.  He delineates two models, a nineteenth century one and one that arose in the 1960s.  Saying that both are flawed, he hopes that anthropologists could work out a new \\"model of engagement\\" that would better reflect the relationship between political power and academic work.  Certainly the relationship between power and <br />anthropologists has been problematic over the whole time the field has existed. <br /> <br />Arriving at the end of this short work of 139 pages (plus notes)-which took me nearly a month to read---my feeling was that I had been painted into a corner.  Which way to turn ?  Every action seemed politically nave or incorrect, if I wanted to describe life in some corner of Indonesia or Uruguay, I would have to relate my writing to the legion of negative forces abroad in this world, to weave my way through a vast minefield of caveats and no-nos.  The brilliant mass of ideas in the book produced a great gloom in me; I felt that it would be better to stay home and grow strawberries.  But, if anthropology is your field, you can't avoid reading this book.  If you are young, perhaps you will have the enthusiasm to work out a way in which Trouillot's critique could be coupled with a plan of action.  I should say that though GLOBAL TRANSFORMATIONS had a rather depressing effect on me, it is the most interesting or challenging book that I've read for several years.  It made me think---perhaps that's why it depressed me.        <br />	2005-04-19
US	52761040	RPWZHVQ4Z47QA	067120873X	206961128	The Abortion: An Historical Romance 1966	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Just a closer walk with thee	Somewhere out there maybe there's a library for all the books never published, by people who weren't authors, for readers who weren't interested.  Maybe my reviews should be sent there !  Richard Brautigan imagined himself working in such a place, where the overflow was stored in caves (but what about seepage?  Whoa, man, what a bummer !)  He no doubt thought melancholy thoughts about how his own writings would wind up just in such a place.  But as for me, that's the wrong tune.  He captured so much about his times, about human nature, about life itself in those minimalist little chapters of his.  THE ABORTION is more lineal than his other works-it has a plot that he sticks to, a plot that even got me feeling tense as with some kind of pop thriller.  He meets a most beautiful girl who is disgusted with her own beauty, doesn't feel it becomes her true soul.  She settles down with the author in his weird library, a place where he has been hiding away from the \\"real world\\" for three years.  But one thing leads to another, and an abortion becomes necessary.  Given the way our great nation is going, someday soon this book is going to be burned; read it while you can.  The couple fly down to San Diego, cross over to Tijuana, and find the abortionist.  What happens ?  Meatball doesn't reveal endings.  Sorry.<br /><br />  The Brautigan humor, the whimsical observations plunked down in the middle of a totally different conversation.  I like non-sequiturs.  Perhaps enlightenment is found in such bouncing, scintillating simplicity.  In any case, if you liked any others of Brautigan's work, you'll like this one for sure.  Read the rest of them too.  Richard Brautigan is gone.  We will not see his like again, more's the pity.	2005-04-19
US	52761040	R4H1KU0TO5IFW	039474067X	254566048	Orientalism	Books	5	34	45	N	N	A Seminal Work for Cultural Understanding	Relations between people of different cultures is a vital part of today's world, not only for culture's sake, but in terms of diplomacy, business, travel, military action, and even just general knowledge.  Unlike in previous eras, we are extremely likely to find ourselves living and working with those \\"others\\" who used to inhabit unknown spaces \\"out there\\".  So, intercultural relations can impact on our daily life in new ways that our grandparents never dreamed of.  The quality and success of those relationships are going to depend on what we know as individuals about those \\"others\\" or on what we know as a society.  That is why the process by which we get that knowledge and the actual contents of that knowledge are so important.  ORIENTALISM is the work that over the last third of a century has most influenced the way people think and write about that process.<br /><br />Edward Said concentrated on what is commonly known as \\"the Middle East\\", but would be better known as the largely-Muslim countries east of Europe and west of India, or maybe western Asia.  In the 19th and early 20th centuries, this part of the world was often called \\"the Orient\\".  (Though people applied that term to the rest of Asia too.}  The method in which he looks at this so-called Orient can be extended to any other.  He examines the process by which Euro-Americans sought information about the Orient.  They gleaned it from the writings of diplomats, soldiers, administrators, travellers, and businessmen who had stayed for varying lengths of time in the Orient.  They got it from the paintings of artists who wished to sell paintings of exotic scenes or from poets and novelists who wished to write of exotic locales.  In almost all cases, the presenters of knowledge treated the Orient as homogenous, simple, dangerous, crude, full of exoticism or fanaticism and above all, unchanging.  People there were not separate individuals like \\"us\\"; they were the undifferentiated \\"others\\" with whom we could make contrasts favorable to ourselves.  Some Westerners might dream of escape to the exotic world of the Orient, where society would be the reverse of their own.  Some presenters of the Orient knew a lot about what they wrote or painted, others had an extremely superficial knowledge.  In all cases, Said writes, the information collected and presented was used by governments in the West to control the Orient.  Information was power.  The people in the Orient had, and needed, no independent existence.  They were only shadows brought to life by the Light of Knowledge emanating from the West.  They might be guided to proper ways by Western powers, Westerners with power.  Orientalism underlay colonialism.<br /><br />Said examines the vast body of written work---that \\"Orientalism\\"---very extensively.  He notes that it has had its own paradigms of research, its own learned societies, its own establishment, not to mention university departments labelled \\"Oriental Studies\\" in many countries.  Through such bodies, the Orient has been labelled, packaged and presented to the world for two hundred years.  We can see this process alive and well today.  All you have to do is watch Hollywood movies, turn on your TV for the news, or read travel/geographic magazines.  All you have to do is listen to current American pronouncements about the same area, regard their lack of trust in its people, their lack of respect.  Think about the labels that are put on Palestinians or Shia Muslims.  It is not a question of whether you support this particular cause or that.  It is a question of how you get your information.  Think about it.  The world may depend on a radical change in Western thinking, equal to a stop to suicide bombings, teaching of hatred and terrorist plots.  When is a man a terrorist and when is he a freedom fighter ?  When an international news magazine tells us so ? An information establishment shapes the presentation of that old \\"Orient\\" and many other parts of the world.  Said took the first mighty step in forcing the West to see its own constructions.  For that, and for a detailed, well-argued book, five stars are obligatory..  Said took the first mighty step in forcing the West to see its own constructions.  For that, and for a detailed, well-argued book, five stars are obligatory.    <br />	2005-03-18
US	52761040	R2JNM3D8FVQVOG	0824811100	513377675	In Search of Southeast Asia: A Modern History, rev. ed.	Books	5	15	15	N	N	From Arakan to Cebuano, from Tu Duc to Kartini	If you are interested in history, or perhaps if you just had to sit through history way back when, you probably heard about \\"no taxation without representation\\", Gettysburg, Disraeli, the Magna Carta, Charlemagne, Voltaire, and Cheops' Pyramid, to take a few out of the grab bag.  Whether or not you've heard of similarly central and basic events or people in Southeast Asia is another question.  Most people in English-speaking countries are a bit vague if asked about Arakan (a long independent kingdom now part of Burma or Myanmar) or Cebuano (one of the most important Philippine languages), Tu Duc (the last major emperor of Vietnam who died in 1883) or Kartini (a Javanese woman whose letters are a monument to modernization and change in Indonesia).  I first used the 1973 edition of this book more than 30 years ago when I had to teach an introductory course on Southeast Asia.  I found it an invaluable source of information, in an excellently organized format.  The authors wisely did not try to cover two thousand years or more of history for the eleven countries-Burma, Thailand, Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam, Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia, East Timor, Brunei, and the Philippines-making up the region.  They begin with an excellent picture of the 18th century world, including fishermen and rice farmers, religion, trade, local rulers and colonial rulers (at that time, only the Spanish in part of the Philippines).  This section alone is worth the price of the book as a marvelous integrated history.  The next section deals with the way each major society dealt with the impinging outside world, which arrived in the shape of colonial economic and political encroachments and ultimate control.  Each colonial power adopted particular measures, producing differing reactions from the inevitable nationalist movements.  Meanwhile Chinese and Indian businessmen, then Japanese military occupation added new elements to the historical mix.  People who want up-to-date material must look for the later edition. My edition of IN SEARCH OF SOUTHEAST ASIA does not discuss much after 1960, leaving out the Second Indochina War, the economic transformation of Singapore, Thailand, and Malaysia since then, the impact of oil in Indonesia, and the Cambodian genocide. But in any case, as an introduction to Southeast Asia, as a background work for the study of any one of the countries mentioned, this book would be hard to beat.  It contains some excellent maps and detailed information on a myriad subjects.  Its style is serious, but not unreadable.  If you read the whole thing, you will know more about Southeast Asia than 99% of Westerners.  And that's a shame.he later edition. My edition of IN SEARCH OF SOUTHEAST ASIA does not discuss much after 1960, leaving out the Second Indochina War, the economic transformation of Singapore, Thailand, and Malaysia since then, the impact of oil in Indonesia, and the Cambodian genocide. But in any case, as an introduction to Southeast Asia, as a background work for the study of any one of the countries mentioned, this book would be hard to beat.  It contains some excellent maps and detailed information on a myriad subjects.  Its style is serious, but not unreadable.  If you read the whole thing, you will know more about Southeast Asia than 99% of Westerners.  And that's a shame.   <br />	2005-03-18
US	52761040	R25XO947RG3VJH	0671782266	150964436	Last Old Place: Search Through Portugal	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Globetrouter's Friendly View of Portugal	First things first.  I am a big fan of Portugal.  I've been there three times.  I have a reasonable, if sometimes rusty, command of the language.  I do like fado music and innumerable Portuguese dishes.  And, like the author of this very pleasant book, I admire the Portuguese people for their lack of pretension, their down-to-earth lifestyle, and their belief in hard work, family, and a bit of cynicism for the many phonies of this world.  When he tries, Datus Proper can bring alive any episode from history, for example, the crucial battle of Aljubarrota in 1385.  Cultural comparisons between Portugal and the USA are his forte; I really liked the way he handled them.  Then too, Lisboa is one of my favorite cities in the whole world.  So, with all this, how could I not like THE LAST OLD PLACE and its wry humor and insightful comments on Portugal, Portuguese history, and Portuguese people ?  In fact I liked it a lot, was even sorry to reach the end and I suspect, if you give it a try, you will feel the same.<br /><br />However.  I don't feel like excusing Portuguese deeds overseas by saying that, well, that was long ago, and we all had different standards then.  Of course, that is true, but still, Portuguese colonialism in Asia and Africa was ugly, even if it was less ugly than that of some other, nameless countries.  A minor quibble, I mean, the book isn't about colonial deeds or misdeeds.  The main point for most readers is the following....how interested in trout fishing are you ?  Alas, I am not the slightest interested in it, so I was kind of \\"floundering\\" there, if you'll pardon me.  The author travels around Portugal with a local friend-a kind of human equivalent of Steinbeck's Charley---a man we don't really get to know much about, but one who perhaps represents some old, now-vanishing Portuguese qualities, but more importantly, shares Proper's addiction to fly fishing in remote streams.  So, to reach my conclusion rapidly, I would have liked a lot more of the author's clever, humorous, apt observations on Portugal and a lot less clambering around the rocks looking for the perfect trout hole.f the author's clever, humorous, apt observations on Portugal and a lot less clambering around the rocks looking for the perfect trout hole.   <br />	2005-03-15
US	52761040	R3EOYL4PS6F9T5	040420046X	656584408	Year Amongst the Persians	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Orientalism with a Human Face	As Edward Said pointed out in his seminal work entitled \\"Orientalism\\", and as thousands of others have reiterated since, that large body of literature and art dedicated to describing the \\"true nature\\" of the East, whether written by travellers, soldiers, diplomats, officials, businessmen, or novelists or painted by famous artists, actually contributed in a very important way to the control and administration of occupied parts of that 'East' by Euro-American powers.  By daring to define the cultures and peoples of the Muslim world, and by establishing what constituted \\"knowledge\\" of that huge expanse of territory, European writers could justify their control over these \\"unruly, wild, and irresponsible\\" people.  After all, the West had a `superior, modern civilization'.  Said condemned this long, gigantic effort at control as being an extremely important basis for the whole colonial enterprise.<br /><br />However, Orientalism does not come in one model, one color only.  Like every other theory that purports to explain vast spheres of human activity. Orientalism can be carried too far.  In the rush of enthusiasm that followed Said's work, many students and scholars condemned the very wish of Westerners to investigate other cultures, maintaining that each person should study only their own culture.  In fact, some scholars turned to a more introspective mode, while others continued to study foreign cultures apologetically.  In my opinion this represents the folly, the ridiculousness of political correctness.  Would it really be a better world if each one of us gazed only at our own navel ?  Is not cross-cultural understanding a \\"must\\" in today's world ?  If Iranian, Somali, or Javanese scholars are not busy studying the mores and beliefs of Americans or Australians, does that mean we should stop studying their cultures ?  As always, the real question is not what data should be collected, but what use should be made of it ?<br /><br />Edward Granville Browne travelled to Persia (Iran) as a young man who had already studied Farsi and Turkish, who was fascinated by the culture and literature of Persia.  He spent a year living and travelling around the country back in 1888.  Nobody who reads this book could possibly compare him to a more typical Orientalist like Lord Curzon, who managed to write a \\"classic\\" work on Persia without knowing Persian, without ever mentioning any Persian individual other than top officials or faceless pesky servants.  Browne, enthusiastic in the extreme, resembled more than a little the hippies of a century later---he lived with locals, he ate their food, dabbled in their religions, and experimented with their drugs.  I was sorely disappointed to realize that, as Browne died in 1926, I would never be able to meet such a charming, intelligent, and (above all) kind and fair individual.  These qualities shine out from the description of his travels in direct and glaring contrast to the writings of such people as Paul Theroux or V.S. Naipaul who find only crudity, stupidity, venality.  Browne was fascinated by the then-new religion that is now known as Bahai.  He mixed with Zoroastrians and various sects of Muslims too, constantly discussing philosophy and religion in Farsi with whomever he met.  His text is full of quotations from Persian poetry, of interesting characters he met, and descriptions of the scenes he travelled through.  In short, this is one of the best travel books I have ever read, by one of the most sympathetic, likeable authors I have ever come across.  It's a long read-over 600 pages---but extremely rewarding.  And if this is Orientalism, then so be it.  The Persians put up a statue to Browne and named a street after him in Tehran.  The cruder effects of Orientalism's mailed fist have probably guaranteed that neither still exists.  Iran has a long tradition, not only of religious bigotry, but of openness, fondness for philosophy, rejection of narrow paths, and non-conformism.  A YEAR AMONGST THE PERSIANS remains an important reminder of the varied nature of Iran and its people.  We need that reminder more than ever.AR AMONGST THE PERSIANS remains an important reminder of the varied nature of Iran and its people.  We need that reminder more than ever. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-03-02
US	52761040	R38JGHVV15TRHQ	1583225234	774612763	Popular Music from Vittula: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	growing up as a huckleberry Finn	Growing up anyplace isn't smooth, it isn't describable exactly.  If you search your memories later, trying to ask why you did something, you can't, for the life of you, remember why.  You just did it.  Things happened.  You tried to get to China.  You mimicked the rock stars when you thought you were alone.  You might even have licked cold locks---if you grew up in northern climes--- and got your tongue stuck.  You were never the hero of your own legend.  Well, folks, this novel captures that confusion perfectly.  I've never set foot in Sweden, let alone in its far north by the Finnish border, where all the growing up takes place.  But now I feel I know what it was like.  Niemi's description, magical realism and all, gives you such joy, such interest, that I assure you, you will read POPULAR MUSIC IN VITTULA  as quickly as you can.  I haven't laughed out loud over a book so much for years.  Hey, I even laughed in the Boston subway like some kind of weird, public transport cackler.  But I didn't care.  Kids fight in the woods with B-B guns, try to start rock bands to impress girls, experiment with sex and alcohol, get up the teacher's nose, visit scary old healers, watch the grownups pass out at huge drinkups, and dream of fast cars. In the very end, things turn out quite differently, but that's really familiar too. Most of the themes are hardly unique to the area, but it's Niemi's genius that he makes you feel it exotic and familiar at the same time. It's contemporary writing at its best and I think all readers in English owe a vote of thanks to the translator too.<br /><br />You've got to have a strong stomach for a couple sections, say for example, if large piles of dead mice are not your forte.  If you have ever seen Kaurismaki films like \\"Leningrad Cowboys Go America\\" or \\"The Man without a Past\\", you will recognize the same deadpan Finnish humor in Niemi's novel, whose characters are mainly from the Finnish minority in Sweden's rural north.  I could recount a scene or two for the surfing reader, try to \\"deconstruct\\" whatever, go literary if I could,  but your best bet would be to read the book.  You will not regret it.unt a scene or two for the surfing reader, try to \\"deconstruct\\" whatever, go literary if I could,  but your best bet would be to read the book.  You will not regret it.   <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-02-16
US	52761040	R69FYQYV5YEFV	0881332070	998499612	Nomads of South Persia: The Basseri Tribe of the Khamseh Confederacy	Books	3	12	13	N	N	a sharp but limited ethnography	NOMADS OF SOUTH PERSIA was written in the 1950s when the (nearly always male) researchers tried to conform to a perceived scientific norm.  At the time, Barth wrote a book for specialists, not for general readers and his work has become a minor classic in the field.  However, anthropology has gone through many a twist and turn since then.  It is doubtful if many anthropologists want to read the same book today.  I recently did.  I have no idea whether nomadic life continues in Iran today, or, if it does--- (the New York Times recently reported a 'nomad conference' that took place in Ethiopia with some Iranian participation)---if it resembles the description in this book.  We might call Barth's work \\"social history\\" now.  It is a book that gives no quarter to non-specialists.  If you can't use industrial-strength kinship terminology, you will have a hard time following several chapters.  However, there are a number of interesting matters, for example, the nomads' animals thrive best if kept to a nomadic life.  Staying all year at one place increased mortality dramatically.  More centrally, nomad women had a stronger role to play than those in villages because their cooperation was an economic necessity.  Decision making at the lowest level of nomadic society (chiefly about moving or not moving camp) was complex and subtle, due to the relative independence of everyone and complex family relations.  The connection of the Basseri nomads with other nomads and with the larger, sedentary society was equally interesting.  The tendency of richer nomads was to invest surplus money in land; the tendency of poorer nomads to leave the nomadic life and settle down as landless labor in villages.  Barth contrasts nomad and sedentary, not as separate ethnic groups so much, but as different life patterns extant in the same country.  A vast social gulf existed between powerful village landowners and the subject landless laborers, but among nomads, though all were subject to the chief, each household maintained considerable freedom and, as long as they had enough animals, economic independence.<br /><br />Barth concentrated on describing economic, social, and political organization.  There is virtually nothing else in the 153 pages.  You can admire this focussed approach so typical of the time, or you can regret the lack of a more humanistic style which would have allowed the nomads some voice, given a reader more sense of people and place, examined symbol and ritual to a far greater extent, or provided some clue as to Barth's own role among the Basseri.  Alas, self-revelation was not often thought of in that era, we can hardly blame him.  What startled me was the information that the author spent only three months with the Basseri.  I finished the book wondering how accurate his description was, and how much reflected a fine theoretical mind with an innovative cast.  Barth did seem to be properly cautious about what informants said, but with three months, he would not have had enough time to observe actual life.  Thus, if the author had stayed longer with the Basseri, a different book might have been written.  Like Margaret Mead, Barth seems to have made the most out of a short period of field work.  I can only admire him for that, but questions do remain.f, each household maintained considerable freedom and, as long as they had enough animals, economic independence.   <br /> <br />Barth concentrated on describing economic, social, and political organization.  There is virtually nothing else in the 153 pages.  You can admire this focussed approach so typical of the time, or you can regret the lack of a more humanistic style which would have allowed the nomads some voice, given a reader more sense of people and place, examined symbol and ritual to a far greater extent, or provided some clue as to Barth's own role among the Basseri.  Alas, self-revelation was not often thought of in that era, we can hardly blame him.  What startled me was the information that the author spent only three months with the Basseri.  I finished the book wondering how accurate his description was, and how much reflected a fine theoretical mind with an innovative cast.  Barth did seem to be properly cautious about what informants said, but with three months, he would not have had enough time to observe actual life.  Thus, if the author had stayed longer with the Basseri, a different book might have been written.  Like Margaret Mead, Barth seems to have made the most out of a short period of field work.  I can only admire him for that, but questions do remain.   <br />	2005-02-07
US	52761040	R1EUSH0FVSGWET	0905906004	515840478	001: Iran/Volume 1 (Islamic Architecture)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Catalogue of Early Muslim Era Architecture in Iran	There being only 11 pages of text in this volume, an extensive review is hardly warranted.  It is part of a much larger series put out in the UK in the 1970s dealing with the architecture of the Muslim world.  Though it is called a survey, it must be admitted that it is a very brief survey, which talks about the architecture of Iran during the period 650 A.D. to 1353 A.D.  This covers the early period of Arab rule, then the rise of local kingdoms, the Seljuk Turkish invasion and rule, and finally the Mongol era, in which at first a lot of architecture was destroyed and only later built.  Another volume must cover the later periods, from which a lot more has survived, but I don't have that one.  The bulk of this book is a catalogue of photographs of a great number of ruins-of mosques, minarets, caravansarais, tombs, mausoleums, etc.---plus those of a few buildings that have remained relatively intact.  Two dozen are in color, the rest in black and white.  While a few of the buildings are extremely impressive, and the interior stucco work on some, beautiful, a large number would be of interest only to specialists.  In general, this book belongs in the collection of a person studying Muslim or Iranian architecture.  I suspect that, as a catalogue, it is quite complete.  I doubt very much if non-academics would read it unless they came from Iran, or had close connections to that country for some reason.  There are many other books on Iranian art and architecture to chose from.	2005-01-29
US	52761040	R2F9I5Q8Q8R7S6	B00005VB4N	297219001	The adventures of Hajji Baba of Ispahan	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Peripatetic Persian's Picaresque Peregrinations	The son of an Isfahan barber leads an exciting life of endless adventure, a total rollercoaster existence in which his fortunes rise and fall like a wood chip on the waves of Fate.  Written by an English diplomat in 1824, HAJJI BABA reminded me more than a little of such 18th century British classics as \\"Tom Jones\\", \\"Moll Flanders\\", or \\"The Vicar of Wakefield\\" in that it is composed of a very large series of picaresque tales full of deus ex machinas, lucky breaks and unbelievable encounters.  Oh, yeah, not to mention fortuitous flipflops of Fate.  Hajji Baba proves a thief, bandit, pimp, quack, adulterator of goods, forger of signatures, petty tyrant, liar, imposter, show-off, suspected murderer, dreamer, schemer, and always a shlemazl, full of false piety, fake sincerity and an opportunist to the nth degree.  I might have left out the traits portrayed in one or two incidents here because this dude had a genius for shooting himself in the foot.  Frankly, his love life was a disaster.  Despite all this, I enjoyed the book as a kind of colorful old tale, written in the highly stilted and stylized language of several yesteryears before the last !<br /><br />  What you should under no circumstances think is that this story bears more than the slightest relationship to anything Persian, anything to do with the nation of Iran. With this in mind, you can sit back and enjoy a rollicking British tale.  It is, as others have pointed out, a prime example of \\"Orientalism\\"---a style or an intellectual current in which Westerners stereotype Orientals (particularly, in Edward Said's writing, those of the Muslim world) as all similar, unscrupulous, dirty, ignorant of truth and lacking strong character, and certainly in need of a `strong, guiding hand' which would no doubt be available from Europe (or---let's see---where else ?).  Such writings provided the underpinnings of colonialism and are, sadly, far from dead, although in different guises now.  By placing his picaresque tale in Persia, Morier could exhibit his knowledge of certain customs, dress, food, and bits of vocabulary while titillating contemporary English readers with glimpses of harem life as he (and they) imagined it.  The last chapters make indirect fun of Persians by showing their ignorance of Europe, while \\"we\\", the more worldly wise readers, \\"know\\" the Persians thanks to having read this novel.  Morier thereby set up the backdrop for his next book, in which Hajji Baba visits England.  My edition came with a large number of Orientalist illustrations too, brimming with \\"the exotic\\" or more bluntly put, the phoney.  But you don't have to throw the baby out with the bathwater.  This is adventure, 18th century style.  If that intrigues you, give HAJJI BABA a try.<br /><br />  I bought this book over 40 years ago in Ithaca, New York, but never got around to reading it till now.  I wonder what I would have thought of it then.e tale in Persia, Morier could exhibit his knowledge of certain customs, dress, food, and bits of vocabulary while titillating contemporary English readers with glimpses of harem life as he (and they) imagined it.  The last chapters make indirect fun of Persians by showing their ignorance of Europe, while \\"we\\", the more worldly wise readers, \\"know\\" the Persians thanks to having read this novel.  Morier thereby set up the backdrop for his next book, in which Hajji Baba visits England.  My edition came with a large number of Orientalist illustrations too, brimming with \\"the exotic\\" or more bluntly put, the phoney.  But you don't have to throw the baby out with the bathwater.  This is adventure, 18th century style.  If that intrigues you, give HAJJI BABA a try.    <br /> <br />   I bought this book over 40 years ago in Ithaca, New York, but never got around to reading it till now.  I wonder what I would have thought of it then. <br />	2005-01-28
US	52761040	R2OLTIJBABG4JX	B0006BO1VM	255835715	Isfahan: Pearl of Persia	Books	5	9	9	N	N	great photos, interesting text	In the year 1629, small groups of fishermen began living on the rocky shores of my small peninsula in Massachusetts, thus founding---albeit indirectly---the future town of Marblehead.  This is my one connection to the Iranian city of Isfahan, because in the same year its most famous ruler, Shah Abbas the Great, died after a glorious reign of 42 years.  While Marblehead would remain a tiny fishing village for another century or more, Isfahan was already renowned throughout the world as a city of architectural wonders.  More would be built during the reigns of the following Safavid kings, though none of his descendants measured up to Shah Abbas I.<br /><br />In ISFAHAN: PEARL OF PERSIA, Blunt has compiled a fascinating account of the city, mostly during its period as capital of the Safavid empire, a period that ended in the Afghan conquest and subsequent destruction of the 1720s and `30s.  Though the text covers pre-Islamic times, the rule of the Timurids, and also the 19th century decline as well as a bit of the 20th`s revival,  the bulk of the book concentrates on Isfahan's time of glory in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries.  Since large numbers of Western travellers and diplomats visited the city, we can read many of the very lively descriptions they left for posterity---of the buildings, the rulers, city life, and the people and their customs.  A chapter describes the Christian residents: the Armenian colony and the various missionary fathers who attempted in vain to make conversions.  Another covers both the feasting at the royal court and the buildings created to give it place.  A third discusses the minor arts--carpets, gardens, and ceramics.  Blunt also reviews the most famous of the 19th century European visitors to Isfahan and includes a large number of their black and white drawings from the pre-photojournalism age.  Coupled with Swaan's excellent photographs of the buildings in exquisite detail, many in color, the text comes alive.  I found the whole book a fascinating read, even if, published in 1966, it cannot bring us up to date on the vicissitudes of the old city since the Islamic revolution of 1980.  For anyone who would like to put Isfahan's fabled architectural wonders (the bridges, the Maidan, the Ali Qapu palace, the Shaikh Lutfullah Mosque, the Masjid-e-Shah, the Theological College of the Mother of the Shah, and many others) together with an account of the history and life of this center of world civilization, this book is a must.  While there are many books on the subject, I have never found one with a warmer, more affectionate approach to Isfahan, a city which it is my great misfortune never to have visited.he whole book a fascinating read, even if, published in 1966, it cannot bring us up to date on the vicissitudes of the old city since the Islamic revolution of 1980.  For anyone who would like to put Isfahan's fabled architectural wonders (the bridges, the Maidan, the Ali Qapu palace, the Shaikh Lutfullah Mosque, the Masjid-e-Shah, the Theological College of the Mother of the Shah, and many others) together with an account of the history and life of this center of world civilization, this book is a must.  While there are many books on the subject, I have never found one with a warmer, more affectionate approach to Isfahan, a city which it is my great misfortune never to have visited. <br />	2005-01-18
US	52761040	R1OAUZT8Z85SY6	0704339285	672656314	Javady Alley	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Coming Up Poor in Tehran	In the later stages of China's Cultural Revolution, the leaders could no longer repress every artistic style that had developed over China's millennia-long history.  They permitted traditional landscape painting to flourish once again.  But, as a trade-off, the artists had to insert small signs or symbols of modernity, progress, or Communist activity in their panoramas of mountains, clouds, and forests.  We saw small electric pylons, a truck or tractor, or smokestacks, reminding the viewer that China was no longer that old China, but a new nation, going places.  JAVADY ALLEY reminded me of those Chinese paintings of over a quarter century ago.  The author presents us with an excellent narrative which gives a very strong feeling of what it was like to live in a working class family in Tehran in the 1950s, when modern ideas from the West clashed with both Islam and Communism on a daily basis.  Homa grows up in a very poor neighborhood at the time of political turmoil in Iran, when Mossadegh challenged the Shah and the Army as well as Anglo-American interference in the oil business.  Her father is a leftist factory worker, brutal and dictatorial at home; her battered mother, an educated woman who married beneath her.  Her paternal grandmother, Shaba, who lives with them, is a Turkish-speaking, traditional woman who wraps her faith around her like the chadors all women still had to wear.  The story is one of a little girl's growing self-awareness---a universal theme.  Homa's somewhat uncomprehending experience of political action in her neighborhood also rings very true.  However, the author, with the desire to identify with anti-imperialist forces, puts in a number of extraneous newspaper headlines aimed only at the reader.  The little girl cannot read, so in her narration, these stick out like sore thumbs.  Like the Chinese pylons and trucks, they signal the adherence of the author to a particular creed.  Though I have long supported anti-imperialist arguments about the world, I don't need them shoved down my throat in a novel about little Iranian girls !!  Similarly, the sexual abuse suffered by Homa comes from an over-sanctimonious mullah.  Though this certainly is not impossible, it also smacked of propaganda---the use of a \\"stock character\\".  Overall, I liked JAVADY ALLEY and would recommend it to anyone who wishes to know what growing up poor in Iran was like (and probably still is to a large extent except that religion has assumed a far larger official role). Readers might like to watch several modern Iranian movies about children, especially \\"Children of Heaven\\" and \\"The White Balloon\\" in order to visualize better the setting of the novel.t the world, I don't need them shoved down my throat in a novel about little Iranian girls !!  Similarly, the sexual abuse suffered by Homa comes from an over-sanctimonious mullah.  Though this certainly is not impossible, it also smacked of propaganda---the use of a \\"stock character\\".  Overall, I liked JAVADY ALLEY and would recommend it to anyone who wishes to know what growing up poor in Iran was like (and probably still is to a large extent except that religion has assumed a far larger official role). Readers might like to watch several modern Iranian movies about children, especially \\"Children of Heaven\\" and \\"The White Balloon\\" in order to visualize better the setting of the novel.      <br />	2005-01-11
US	52761040	R227FTYDH9C9DJ	0385238797	756393347	The Pilgrim's Rules of Etiquette: A Novel	Books	2	1	3	N	N	a strange maze with no exit	Having recently read Azar Nafisi's \\"Reading Lolita in Tehran\\", and having been an admirer of Iranian poetry, art and music for many years, I decided to turn to some novels, having read only one so far---Esfandiary's \\"Identity Card\\", which I found quite good.  I must say that THE PILGRIM'S BOOK OF ETIQUETTE is a hard slog.  Perhaps it would appeal to some with the patience to follow a retired professor of esoteric antiquities around Tehran during the Iran-Iraq War of the 1980s, but I cannot recommend it.  My reasons are as follows.  First, there is no flow of the story.  It jumps around like one of those \\"Mexican jumping beans\\" we used to have as kids.  Every few paragraphs we turn to some other character, some other topic, some other perspective.  You can't \\"get into\\" the story at all.  I found it `itchy', if I may use such a word for literature.  The second reason I didn't warm to this novel is that the English is very stilted.  The dialogues are unnatural.  You could write classical English for a novel that takes place mostly in Farsi, or, if you desired, you could use some kind of colloquial American or British idiom.  This book boasts of neither.  It's some kind of mix that doesn't work.  I would say, however, that the author creates a very large number of beautiful metaphors and descriptions which perhaps would have been better served by a different translator or English `advisor'.  I often like absurdist novels with ironic tones, so I feel I could have liked this one too.  It may also be true that the author is a frustrated poet who realized that his work would not be much read if he tried to publish poetry.  I fear it will not be much read this way either.	2004-12-30
US	52761040	R2VHWFGY9RJ3HL	081297106X	635066654	Reading Lolita in Tehran: A Memoir in Books	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Reading as Affirmation of Life	Azar Nafisi, from an elite family, returned to Iran from her years of American education hoping for great changes in her country.  She got more than she bargained for, but not what she had hoped at all.  Instead of more freedom, she wound up with less, with Western literature held suspect, and women constrained by veils and morals police.  As students and colleagues disappeared or were executed, she lost her job, her mobility, and her hopes.  Somehow, she managed to avoid a worse fate, though we don't really learn how.  A bloody war with Iraq that consumed the lives of countless Iranians ensued.  Iran's new politico-religious leaders fought under slogans like \\"The more we die, the stronger we will become.\\"  In such an atmosphere, what could a woman do, a woman who did not bend easily to official interference in her life ?  She started a reading group of female students that went through many classic Western authors---from Nabokov to Fitzgerald, James, Austen, Flaubert, and Bellow---and discussed the works from their own perspectives.  Though Nafisi eventually bowed to the relentless pressure of the culture controllers and left for America, she experienced enough to be able to write a memoir that resonates with anyone, across cultures, with people who have no direct experience with tyranny or with Islamic fundamentalism.  The success of her book, in some part, stems from her ability to internationalize her experience, rather than make it purely local.  Still, I wonder.  For the countless book clubs that discussed Nafisi's work, perhaps using the questions that she thoughtfully (artfully ?) put at the end, what was the predominant emotion ?  Was it empathy, as the author obviously hoped ?  [Great literature should create empathy with all aspects of the human experience.] Or was it pity ?  Or was it the endless, prurient curiosity about the veil---the life of Islamic women---of the `shock-horror', National Enquirer type that seems to be permanently tacked onto Western civilization ?  Nafisi writes sincerely, from the heart, but she makes no effort to \\"clue readers in\\" who have zero background in Iranian culture or history.  When such readers discuss READING LOLITA, what baggage must they bring to their comments ?  Will this book not serve as a kind of foil for feminists ?  The Iranian mullahs as an axis of evil ?  Haven't we had enough of this?  I am not querying the author's ability or motives.  I am questioning what made this book into a national bestseller.<br /><br />Nevertheless, READING LOLITA IN TEHRAN is both exciting and interesting.  It is exciting to see how great literature became alive in the context of repression, as a necessity of life, not the icing on our cake of materialist provenance.  It is interesting because Nafisi weaves the stories of the seven young women, herself, and her family into the tapestry of the literary discussions.  The nature of Iranian oppression was to force women to define themselves in the terms of others, not in their own terms.  The oppressors succeeded in large part.  When the Ayatollah Khomeini died, they mourned, eliciting a passage that eerily echoed Garcia-Marquez's \\"The Autumn of the Patriarch\\".  \\"Like all grat mythmakers, (Khomeini) had tried to fashion reality out of his dream, and in the end...he had managed to destroy both reality and his dream.  Added to the crimes, to the murders and tortures, we would now face this last indignity---the murder of our dreams.  Yet he had done this with our full compliance, our complete assent and complicity.\\" (p.246)  Such sentiments are not commonly found in America or other Western societies.  We can afford more optimistic outlooks and more benign views of politics.  But it is a mistake to think that the grim realities occur only in faraway places like Iran.  It seems to me one important side of Nafisi's work is to make us wonder exactly what separates us from Iran and what we need to do to ensure its continued separation.  If you read thiswork in such a light it is extremely worthwhile.  The power of literature is to make us think, to make us understand liberty.  Great literature inspires people across cultures to dream of a better world, a world in which acknowledgement of common humanity replaces narrow rejection.  This book is like an electric arrow pointing in that direction.  If you just want to feel lucky that you were not born in Iran or if you want to condemn Islam, Iran, or some `bad guys', then you are going to miss the point.ad this work in such a light it is extremely worthwhile.  The power of literature is to make us think, to make us understand liberty.  Great literature inspires people across cultures to dream of a better world, a world in which acknowledgement of common humanity replaces narrow rejection.  This book is like an electric arrow pointing in that direction.  If you just want to feel lucky that you were not born in Iran or if you want to condemn Islam, Iran, or some `bad guys', then you are going to miss the point.       <br /> <br />	2004-12-30
US	52761040	R27KW7NGPSO8G7	0394402847	448449704	The Thirteenth Tribe	Books	4	70	88	N	N	Hold the Strudel and Pass the Baklava	Back in the 1970s, Arthur Koestler, author of \\"Darkness at Noon\\", wrote this amazingly innovative book.  I read it in Rarotonga in 1980---a suitably exotic place to read a serious book on a rather exotic topic.  Recently I returned to it, though I long ago disagreed with the author's main conclusions.<br /><br />In the first 121 pages, Koestler describes the history of a long-vanished, Turkic people called the Khazars, whose ruler, faced with pressure from both Muslim and Christian nations around them, took the radical step of converting to Judaism.  As this is one of the very few instances (if not the single one) in history of such a royal move, the Khazars have attracted scholarly attention ever since, particularly, but not only, from Jews.  Indeed, you can log on to a Khazar Studies website today.  For another, less factual view of this interesting tribe, you can read Milorad Pavic's poetic, absurdist novel \\"Dictionary of the Khazars\\".  In any case, Koestler's history makes fascinating reading, containing accounts by ancient Arab travellers, stories of Jewish crusaders in northern Iraq, and descriptions of the links to Vikings, Byzantium, Islam, and Magyars.  I have no professional knowledge as to how accurate it all is, but if I were awarding stars for good history writing, I'd give five here.<br /><br />However, THE THIRTEENTH TRIBE is not just a history.  In the remainder of the book, Koestler constructs an argument for the Eastern European Jews' being the descendants of these Khazars.  He asks where the Khazars all disappeared to.  He says population statistics from the period 1300-1500 bear evidence that there could not have been so many Jews to be killed by the brutal Bogdan Khmielnitsky in the great massacres of 1648-49 in the Ukraine unless the Khazars had become the Polish-Ukrainian Jews by then.  He deals in some dubious racial theorizing, throws in a few arguments based on place names, and concludes that the \\"original stock\\" of the Jews was predominantly Turkish.  This theorizing turned me off back in 1980 and it still does.  As an anthropologist, I have to ask: in all cases known in history, when a people converts en masse to another religion, a large body of pre-existing language and culture always remains.  Why not with the supposed Khazar-Jews ?  Is there an element of Turkish in Yiddish ?  No.  Are there any kinds of nomadic or Turkish cultural behaviors among the Eastern European Jews ?  The answer is no.  This would be just about impossible if Koestler's theory were correct.  Secondly, to rely on statistics gleaned from medieval records is extremely dubioius especially when the Jews were hardly deemed members of European society and may never have been counted.  Numbers of people killed or born were routinely exaggerated or ignored all over Europe.  I rejected Koestler's theory 24 years ago.  Since then, DNA research, unknown at the time, has shown that most Eastern European Jews have a mixed Semitic and European heritage.  Despite the passage of many centuries, genetically the closest people to them are still the Palestinians, Lebanese and Syrians.  Koestler's theory remains only an interesting thought.  It is worth reading for the historical part and to see how convincing incorrect theories can still be.predominantly Turkish.  This theorizing turned me off back in 1980 and it still does.  As an anthropologist, I have to ask: in all cases known in history, when a people converts en masse to another religion, a large body of pre-existing language and culture always remains.  Why not with the supposed Khazar-Jews ?  Is there an element of Turkish in Yiddish ?  No.  Are there any kinds of nomadic or Turkish cultural behaviors among the Eastern European Jews ?  The answer is no.  This would be just about impossible if Koestler's theory were correct.  Secondly, to rely on statistics gleaned from medieval records is extremely dubioius especially when the Jews were hardly deemed members of European society and may never have been counted.   Numbers of people killed or born were routinely exaggerated or ignored all over Europe.  I rejected Koestler's theory 24 years ago.  Since then, DNA research, unknown at the time, has shown that most Eastern European Jews have a mixed Semitic and European heritage.  Despite the passage of many centuries, genetically the closest people to them are still the Palestinians, Lebanese and Syrians.  Koestler's theory remains only an interesting thought.  It is worth reading for the historical part and to see how convincing incorrect theories can still be. <br /> <br />	2004-12-23
US	52761040	R20NLP4XZPTTLO	0380430428	653260228	The Manor	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Jews Are Bustin' Out All Over	Why should the Jews live in a narrow, religious world bound by myriad restrictions when all Europe is moving towards an industrial, modern future ?  On the other hand, isn't leaving the guidance of one's own tradition, and walking on thin ice towards material and emotional satisfactions frought with dangers and fears ?  As usual, Singer asks big questions in his novel and answers ambiguously.  Readers have to look within themselves to divine the answers to such questions.  Materialism and individual freedom offer rewards, but then so do spirituality and family ties.<br /><br />  Calman Jacoby takes over the management of a Polish manor after the failed revolt of 1863.  He rapidly makes a success of it, becomes a capitalist, and willy-nilly moves away from maintaining the minute observations of Jewish tradition.  Yet, he regrets this, he struggles to remain honest. When his wife dies, he marries an independent woman of dubious morals with an eye for the main chance.  His eldest daughter marries the ambitious-but-traditional son of a local rabbi.  Amother marries a no-count nobleman---son of the original manor owner---and lives a miserable life as an apostate to Judaism.  Another marries a holy rebbe, leader of a Hasidic sect.  The fourth weds a man who chooses rationalism and science over the mysticism and superstition of the village Jewish community.  She cannot keep up with him.  How can Jacoby deal with the stress of such transformations in traditional Jewish life ?  While some men strive in the world of old, Talmudic scholarship, serving as guides to the gullible poor, speak only Yiddish, and shun contact with outsiders, others begin to shave, wear European clothing, eat non-kosher food, and associate with women outside the family.  New political ideas appear and shake old certainties.  Singer traces the tensions and upheavals in families who live in times of rapid transition from one kind of society to another.<br /><br />Chinua Achebe's \\"Things Fall Apart\\" and other novels can be related to THE MANOR, but a lot of African and Asian literature deals with the same theme, as does the literature of Native Americans.  Singer's version is rich, rewarding, and full of poetic description.  Perhaps, with so many characters, THE MANOR is more diffuse than some of his other novels, but most of them are vivid and well-developed.  As always, he brings the lost world of the Eastern European Jews alive. It will live forever in these pages, as long as people read books or want to know what people once lived and struggled in Poland.<br /><br />Singer wrote many novels set in different times---from \\"Satan in Goray\\" (1600s)  to \\"The Slave\\" and \\"The Magician of Lublin\\" and \\"The Family Moskat\\"---as well as \\"Enemies, a Love Story\\" set in post-war New York, after the Jewish world was destroyed.  THE MANOR is yet another jewel set in the necklace of his work.part\\" and other novels can be related to THE MANOR, but a lot of African and Asian literature deals with the same theme, as does the literature of Native Americans.  Singer's version is rich, rewarding, and full of poetic description.   Perhaps, with so many characters, THE MANOR is more diffuse than some of his other novels, but most of them are vivid and well-developed.  As always, he brings the lost world of the Eastern European Jews alive. It will live forever in these pages, as long as people read books or want to know what people once lived and struggled in Poland.    <br /> <br />Singer wrote many novels set in different times---from \\"Satan in Goray\\" (1600s)  to \\"The Slave\\" and \\"The Magician of Lublin\\" and \\"The Family Moskat\\"---as well as \\"Enemies, a Love Story\\" set in post-war New York, after the Jewish world was destroyed.  THE MANOR is yet another jewel set in the necklace of his work.   <br />	2004-12-14
US	52761040	R1IZX4J5XD4K1U	0374525102	113803662	Annie John: A Novel	Books	3	2	6	N	N	Coming of Age in Antigua	We are lucky enough to be able to read a large number of autobiographies or semi-autobiographical novels in the world today.  Both types of book impart the flavor of what it felt like to grow up in a certain place at a certain time.  I can think of many such volumes from North America and Western Europe: outside that sphere, George Lamming (Barbados), Wole Soyinka (Nigeria), R.K. Narayan (India), Ismail Kadare (Albania), and Fadhma Amrouche (Algeria) have written beautiful examples of the genre as well. Most of these were written in colonial societies.  So, to be fair, I think we have to place ANNIE JOHN among all these----to compare it to all the others.<br /><br />Despite the raves of ten reviewers on the cover of the book---nine of whom are women---I felt only a moderate attraction to Kincaid's work.  I often liked the flavor that she gives of what it felt like growing up on a West Indian island in the colonial era.  Such flavors are a main part of why anyone would want to read ANNIE JOHN.  The author develops a definite style, not exactly like other writers', constantly splitting from the direction you perceive she's heading.  She sees positive and negative, pro and con, truth and pure wishful thinking.  Her dream sequences are impressively written.  The main character, Annie John, growing up with adequate clothing, food, and shelter with loving lower middle class parents, has a great stock of unpleasant memories, twisted desires, and in general, the `can of worms' view of childhood, yet there is almost nothing in her life to warrant it.  This overall put me off because while it's true that we are rather ambivalent or mixed up in childhood/youth, and we nearly always rebel against our over-protective parents, we seldom sort it all out till later.  To write as if Annie knew what was going on, and could afterwards put it all down on paper, seemed to me unrealistic. Naivete is the mark of childhood, not such all-knowingness.  The characters of her parents and grandparents are more appealing than her own.  Of course, some readers may empathize with Annie John, if they went through traumatic conflicts with their parents, but I did not.  My greatest criticism is that a lot of explanation is missing.  Certain clues just don't appear.  What made Annie change from love to hate of her mother ? Was it just because she entered puberty ? From good girl to bad girl ?  Why did she go crazy for a long time ?  These occur very abruptly.  Why did she want to leave her island forever ?  It's not at all clear that she had such a bad time.  OK, she wanted something different.  What made her opt for that choice?<br /><br />By the end of the book, I felt that the rave reviews were something like a chick lit cheering section.  They were entirely uncritical and unhesitating.  I found Annie's character rather unpleasant and the novel or autobiography---not boring or poorly written---still missing some vital connections and leaving too many questions unanswered.randparents are more appealing than her own.  Of course, some readers may empathize with Annie John, if they went through traumatic conflicts with their parents, but I did not.  My greatest criticism is that a lot of explanation is missing.  Certain clues just don't appear.  What made Annie change from love to hate of her mother ? Was it just because she entered puberty ? From good girl to bad girl ?  Why did she go crazy for a long time ?  These occur very abruptly.  Why did she want to leave her island forever ?  It's not at all clear that she had such a bad time.  OK, she wanted something different.  What made her opt for that choice?   <br /> <br />By the end of the book, I felt that the rave reviews were something like a chick lit cheering section.  They were entirely uncritical and unhesitating.  I found Annie's character rather unpleasant and the novel or autobiography---not boring or poorly written---still missing some vital connections and leaving too many questions unanswered.  <br />	2004-12-09
US	52761040	R1HRSSFY9T9LSP	0394745108	898504530	The Music School V510	Books	4	3	3	N	N	An Uneven Collection	John Updike at his best is hard to beat.  The brilliance-gem-like brilliance--- of his observatory powers dazzle me.  His choice of words, the power of his phrasing all can leave me amazed.  How could anyone write like that ?  And at such a young age too.  Certain stories in this collection from the 1960s took my breath away.  \\"A Madman\\", about an encounter with an extremely eccentric Englishman on a first trip to Oxford not only captures the feel of Americans out of their culture, of English life, and the old ways of that university town, but also of all such encounters with persuasive crazies anywhere in the world.  Unbelievably good.  I loved the 1950s, small town feel of such stories as \\"The Indian\\" and \\"In Football Season\\", which will serve forever as memoirs of the atmosphere of even-now bygone times.  The former, about Ipswich, Mass., close to home for me, resonates even more.  \\"The Bulgarian Poetess\\" too struck a chord with me---the story of a love never taken up, a future glimpsed only through a door never entered.  What a writer !  Yet I can't say that I liked all these stories unequivocally.  Some of them seemed too much \\"insider\\" stuff, fit only for people who shared the same slice of classical knowledge that the writer carries.  Others harped a little too dismally on the disappointments and futility of marriage, or the dubious pleasures of adultery---always, in Updike's view---the view of a reluctant puritan---a losing proposition which cannot really bring satisfaction to any party.  Couples thrashing around in the sea of inevitability quickly become old hat; if they get nothing but pain out of it, why do they do it so often ?  That may be his question too, but I don't think he answers sufficiently.  Some of the stories seem to be rather self-indulgent, as if the author said, \\"You know, I can write a story about anything.  Just name the most obscure topic or theme you can think of and I'll write you a story on it.  Now watch this !\\"  Cool, but will it have much meaning to others ?  These are some of my criticisms.  On the whole, though, this collection can provide both pleasure and interest.  It is nearly forty years old, but only few collections written since then can equal it.it have much meaning to others ?  These are some of my criticisms.  On the whole, though, this collection can provide both pleasure and interest.  It is nearly forty years old, but only few collections written since then can equal it.    <br />	2004-12-09
US	52761040	R1I3U7533XSKER	0375707425	580961678	Embers	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Everything Dies Away	We live in the Age of Uncertainty.  After a century of wars, holocausts, gulags, mass displacements, migrations, and environmental destruction, coupled with out-of-control technological change and social disruption, we no longer know who or what we are, nor where we want to go.  Everything is divided and much has become empty.  EMBERS, written in 1942, about the late Austro-Hungarian Empire, is like a message in a bottle from another time.  The author fled Hungary after World War II and wound up committing suicide in San Diego in 1989.  His novel, one of many he wrote, was translated only in 2001 (from German not the original Hungarian).  So, 59 years after its first publication and 102 years after the central event of the story, we read.  The message in this bottle is almost incomprehensible to us in many ways.  It is a message from the Age of Certainty, a time when everything (in Europe and North America) was in its place, social status and position were known and preserved as far as possible.  King, country, family, honor and duty were rigid, to be taken seriously with no questions asked.  How then are we to understand this novel in our age of fluidity, relativity, political correctness, and doubt ?<br /><br />EMBERS is the story of three people who eventually form (or don't form) a love triangle.  The General, scion of an old Hungarian aristocratic family, his poor friend Konrad from military academy days, and the General's wife, Krisztina.  The two men meet as child cadets in the 1870s and remain the closest of friends until 1899, when something happens during a hunt.  All three then separate forever.  Krisztina dies in 1907, the two men lead entirely separate lives until, World War II having begun, Konrad comes to visit the General in 1940.  They are both 75 years old.  They represent an Empire, a culture, and a view of the world almost gone, soon to disappear entirely.  Most of this unusual novel becomes a soliloquy by the General in which he voices his view of what happened all those years ago, why, and what value this knowledge would have for two old men.  I strongly recommend that you read this novel to find out what he says, but be advised that this is a 'thinking person's' novel, not a love story or adventure tale in the usual sense.  In the long soliloquy, Marai introduces many ideas and contrary views about love, trust, honor, desire, death and life itself.  When the old General is about to disappear from the Earth, like his beloved Empire and all its sureties, what difference can old emotions like love, hatred, and desire for revenge make ?  They are only embers of the passions that rule all mankind, but must inevitably fade till in the end, nothing remains.view of what happened all those years ago, why, and what value this knowledge would have for two old men.  I strongly recommend that you read this novel to find out what he says, but be advised that this is a 'thinking person's' novel, not a love story or adventure tale in the usual sense.  In the long soliloquy, Marai introduces many ideas and contrary views about love, trust, honor, desire, death and life itself.  When the old General is about to disappear from the Earth, like his beloved Empire and all its sureties, what difference can old emotions like love, hatred, and desire for revenge make ?  They are only embers of the passions that rule all mankind, but must inevitably fade till in the end, nothing remains.	2004-12-07
US	52761040	RI7H18MMV2WQI	0283994096	323294918	Curzon's Persia	Books	3	3	4	N	N	English Aristocrat's Arrogant Odyssey	At the age of 30, George Nathaniel Curzon was an MP, already destined for big things.  By age 40, he would be Viceroy of India.  England stood at the zenith of empire, jousting with Russia for control of the vast swathe of land north and west of India---Tibet, Central Asia, Afghanistan, and Iran.  In 1891, Curzon undertook a trip on horseback, from the newly-acquired Russian territory of Turkmenistan, into Iran, from Mashad to Teheran and from there into the Caspian lands, then down to Isfahan, Shiraz, and to the Persian Gulf.  He obviously went with some greater purpose than just adventure, but the details have been edited out of this book, which only records his travels and impressions of Iran, or Persia, as the author calls it.<br /><br />If you are familiar with the term `orientalism' as used by Edward Said, then Curzon's book may serve as a perfect illustration of what Said wrote about.  Curzon writes highly detailed and well-polished descriptions of the landscape, the condition of the post-houses where he hired horses for his trip, and details of all the towns he passed through---walls, guns, mosques, gardens and crops around, ruins, major buildings, street layouts, and more.  However, for a modern reader the book may be truly poisoned because of his arrogant, racist attitude towards the Iranians themselves.  OK, we should not judge other times by our own.  Still, modern readers will not be edified by constant use of such phrases as \\"the Oriental mind\\", \\"the proverbial craftiness of the Oriental\\", \\"the repulsive, fascinating Oriental world\\", \\"the moral supineness of the Persians\\", \\"Persian artfulness\\", \\"A Persian is a coward at the best of times...\\", on and on.  The book is absolutely full of such drivel.  These were the days before travellers turned the lens of analysis on their own societies rather than casting stones at others.  Curzon constantly reduces the whole strange (for him) scene to simple platitudes which became a solid part of Western knowledge of Iran for many years !  This book was read for decades by Westerners heading for Iran.  Yet, the irony of it is that in the whole book there is not one SINGLE conversation or interaction with any Iranian, no description of any person at all.  Curzon relieved himself of all those stereotypes and insulting generalizations without, as far as a reader can see, having met any Iranians.  Plus, he twisted facts to suit his preconceptions.  The most glaring example is on page 111.  He tells us how silk worm disease wiped out silk cultivation in a certain area.  The peasants then switched to tobacco, opium, olives, and rice.  In the next sentence, with no irony apparent, he says that silk cultivation (with new methods to combat the disease) would probably never revive because Persia was a country `where new ideas and improved methods penetrate so slowly'.  Yet the peasants had switched quickly.<br /><br />Although you can see that I did not like this book very much, I must say one positive thing.  Curzon underwent considerable hardship to gather whatever knowledge he could.  He kept his eyes open and produced excellent descriptions of the land and towns.  He debunked numbers of other, more fanciful writers, and knew his Persian history in detail.  An American reader of our times must be impressed at the quality of leaders Britain was producing at the time of its imperial height and rue the intellectual abilities of our own.  If Britain engaged in Iranian adventures, the leaders had considerable, if warped, knowledge of that country.  I fear that some in high positions in Washington would be hard put to name three cities in that country.knowledge of Iran for many years !  This book was read for decades by Westerners heading for Iran.  Yet, the irony of it is that in the whole book there is not one SINGLE conversation or interaction with any Iranian, no description of any person at all.  Curzon relieved himself of all those stereotypes and insulting generalizations without, as far as a reader can see, having met any Iranians.  Plus, he twisted facts to suit his preconceptions.  The most glaring example is on page 111.  He tells us how silk worm disease wiped out silk cultivation in a certain area.  The peasants then switched to tobacco, opium, olives, and rice.  In the next sentence, with no irony apparent, he says that silk cultivation (with new methods to combat the disease) would probably never revive because Persia was a country `where new ideas and improved methods penetrate so slowly'.  Yet the peasants had switched quickly.   <br /> <br />Although you can see that I did not like this book very much, I must say one positive thing.  Curzon underwent considerable hardship to gather whatever knowledge he could.  He kept his eyes open and produced excellent descriptions of the land and towns.  He debunked numbers of other, more fanciful writers, and knew his Persian history in detail.  An American reader of our times must be impressed at the quality of leaders Britain was producing at the time of its imperial height and rue the intellectual abilities of our own.  If Britain engaged in Iranian adventures, the leaders had considerable, if warped, knowledge of that country.  I fear that some in high positions in Washington would be hard put to name three cities in that country. <br />	2004-11-23
US	52761040	R6SHCOZKCM9CK	0394700279	963973027	STRAIT IS THE GATE V27	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Sensitive Soul Selects Self-Sacrifice	You can bet that old Omar Khayyam loved a few women in his day and when he got out there under the spreading bough with his loaf of bread, a book of verse, and a jug of wine, he did not fail to eat, drink, recite, and all the rest.  That's what I think life is about.  Dreams are central, but if you have a chance to realize your dream, and you don't because you think you'll be happier if you don't, then your dreams are just so much junk and you are kidding yourself.  Self-denial may be good for your health, but not for your soul.<br /><br />Andre Gide wrote this novel back before World War I, when extreme sensibility had not been crushed by the horrors of modern war; a time when the words `holocaust' or `genocide' had not been much heard.  I am not claiming that this is a bad novel---no, on the contrary---it is a very complex and finely-crafted piece of literature.  However, I found it impossible to like.  Jerome and Alissa, two extremely sensitive and religious young people in Normandy, fall in love early in life, but spend the rest of the novel avoiding each other, sacrificing themselves for `purity', turning to God instead of to each other, embarassed by their own passion, and other vain exercises in psychological self-mutilation.  The twists and turns that Gide manages to write into this short, but extremely complex novel are breathtakingly clever and believable, but the whole effect was to make me feel somewhat nauseous and exceedingly disturbed.  Alissa writes to her lover who thinks only of her, \\"No, don't cut short your journey for the sake of a few days' meeting.  Seriously, it is better that we should not see each other again just yet.  Believe me, I could not think of you more if you were with me.  I should be sorry to give you pain, but I have come to the point of no longer wanting your presence---now.  Shall I confess ?  If I knew you were coming this evening I should fly away.\\"  And so it goes, desire, rejection, reunion, the heights of platonic passion, and again separation.  A second love story underlines the first to give it the traceries of poignancy.  Some years ago in Australia, there was a campaign to get people away from their television sets, out to do some healthier activity.  The slogan then was \\"Life !  Be in it !\\"  This couple's slogan is definitely, \\"Life !  Be out of it !\\"<br /><br />If you have read Kafka's \\"The Castle\\" and enjoyed it, then this book is definitely for you.  If you ever thrilled to Ring Lardner's \\"The Ecstasy of Owen Muir\\" or Kawabata Yasunari's \\"House of Sleeping Beauties\\", then I suppose you will be drawn to STRAIT IS THE GATE. I am not an expert on Gide by any means, but it may be that he wanted to write several books showing the complex depths of various human emotions. It's five star writing, but in the opinion of this reviewer, it is a twisted book that will not give you much pleasure.passion, and again separation.  A second love story underlines the first to give it the traceries of poignancy.  Some years ago in Australia, there was a campaign to get people away from their television sets, out to do some healthier activity.  The slogan then was \\"Life !  Be in it !\\"  This couple's slogan is definitely, \\"Life !  Be out of it !\\" <br /> <br />If you have read Kafka's \\"The Castle\\" and enjoyed it, then this book is definitely for you.  If you ever thrilled to Ring Lardner's \\"The Ecstasy of Owen Muir\\" or Kawabata Yasunari's \\"House of Sleeping Beauties\\", then I suppose you will be drawn to STRAIT IS THE GATE. I am not an expert on Gide by any means, but it may be that he wanted to write several books showing the complex depths of various human emotions. It's five star writing, but in the opinion of this reviewer, it is a twisted book that will not give you much pleasure.   <br /> <br />	2004-11-11
US	52761040	R2LHYKBJXKKYAO	0691037221	189585410	In the Soviet House of Culture	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Knowing the Nivkh	Back before the Russian Revolution, Orthodox priests on Sakhalin island, just north of Japan, attempted to convert an Asiatic people known to the world then as `Gilyak', but as Nivkh to themselves.  Their pagan beliefs, the Nivkh were told, kept them primitive and uncivilized.  Although they enjoyed a rich religious and economic life (trading with Japan, China, Korea, and the Russians too), had their own language and folkways, the Nivkh were classed at the bottom of the human hierarchy because they weren't Christian or literate, didn't have a written history.  The Russian government in Europe, eight time zones away, paid zero attention to the Nivkh, though Russian settlers and convicts often occupied their villages, sited in the best fishing areas.  After the Revolution, the Nivkh went through the Soviet cycles of cultural policy, which by 1990, when Bruce Grant got to Sakhalin, had become an absurd tale of Alice-in-Wonderland ups and downs.  Grant's subtitle of 'A Century of Perestroikas' says it very well.  (And the Nivkh have probably gone through two more since 1991.)  In the 1920s, Nivkh language and culture were seen as well-worth preserving; the people should control their own destiny.  No, all local cultures had to be subsumed under the proletarian Soviet culture and previous Nivkh leaders should be shot.  They were, under Stalin.  Then, during Khrushchev's time, cultural pressure eased off, but in the name of efficiency many Nivkh villages were evacuated, the inhabitants transferred to bigger centers.  Often more successful villages gave way to the least.  Soviet culture still ruled the roost.  By the late 1980s, everything had collapsed---alcoholism, lack of supplies, and poor supervision had ruined everything.  Self-confident Nivkh traders, hunters, and fishermen had been transformed into janitors, loaders, watchmen---the lowest on the totem pole.  Soviet culture became just a shadow.  But what could the Nivkh fall back on ?  What remained of Nivkh culture?  Could anyone separate Nivkh culture from Soviet culture anymore ?  On top of that, opinions about everything varied.  The Nivkh had not been passive, just the acted-upon of the USSR.  They had participated in every twist of policy, mostly embracing the dreams of a Soviet future like other citizens.  Now it seemed that nothing remained but broken dreams, broken lives, empty shelves.  So, by 1991, who were the Nivkh ?  What was their future ?<br /><br />Bruce Grant has written a very interesting ethnography which addresses two vastly important problems in the contemporary world illustrated by a very small and remote people's experience.  First, how to revive the cultures of all the peoples that lived through the destructive experience of the USSR ?  I think this question impacts people everywhere.  Second, how can minorities survive the cultural and political onslaught of bigger communities ?  Native Americans, Aborigines, Ainu, Maori, Adivasis in India, Tibetans or Uighurs, Roma---there's an endless list of peoples who have suffered the slings and arrows of modernization on somebody else's terms, winding up at the bottom of the heap.  I don't think Grant answers these questions, nor does he claim to, but in the process of thinking about them, this book is highly relevant.<br /><br />I especially liked Grant's humorous descriptions of the absurd scenes played out in the last days of Soviet Sakhalin.  It seems to me that was the only way to handle them, though the situation was grave for the people involved.  The text comes with a map, good photographs, and an excellent bibliography.  All in all, readers not very familiar with the ups and downs of the Soviet history of culture and cultural description will find this a very useful book.ure?  Could anyone separate Nivkh culture from Soviet culture anymore ?  On top of that, opinions about everything varied.  The Nivkh had not been passive, just the acted-upon of the USSR.  They had participated in every twist of policy, mostly embracing the dreams of a Soviet future like other citizens.  Now it seemed that nothing remained but broken dreams, broken lives, empty shelves.  So, by 1991, who were the Nivkh ?  What was their future ? <br /> <br />Bruce Grant has written a very interesting ethnography which addresses two vastly important problems in the contemporary world illustrated by a very small and remote people's experience.  First, how to revive the cultures of all the peoples that lived through the destructive experience of the USSR ?  I think this question impacts people everywhere.  Second, how can minorities survive the cultural and political onslaught of bigger communities ?  Native Americans, Aborigines, Ainu, Maori, Adivasis in India, Tibetans or Uighurs, Roma---there's an endless list of peoples who have suffered the slings and arrows of modernization on somebody else's terms, winding up at the bottom of the heap.  I don't think Grant answers these questions, nor does he claim to, but in the process of thinking about them, this book is highly relevant.   <br /> <br />I especially liked Grant's humorous descriptions of the absurd scenes played out in the last days of Soviet Sakhalin.  It seems to me that was the only way to handle them, though the situation was grave for the people involved.  The text comes with a map, good photographs, and an excellent bibliography.  All in all, readers not very familiar with the ups and downs of the Soviet history of culture and cultural description will find this a very useful book.             <br /> <br />	2004-11-10
US	52761040	R18X7IRXZ60QJX	0140239405	789356558	Strange Pilgrims: Stories (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Colombian Magical Realism Hits Europe	I wonder if Garcia-Marquez is capable of writing a bad story.  Certainly this selection of twelve are like polished gemstones.  They might not be shiny or scintillating, but they are so solid, so satisfying.  Each of them centers around Latin Americans, mostly Colombians, and their strange experiences in Europe.  Back in South America, they move in familiar patterns, they feel at home, but in Europe, unknown and unseen forces affect them, they are prey to the pitfalls of strangeness, they can't see anything coming until it runs them over.  While the gigantic geography, turbulent history,  and luxuriant and untamed nature of South America fosters magical realism in authors, at least in Garcia-Marquez and some of the other greats, they also produce characters very much larger than life.  Europe has always seemed to me a much tamer place, having reduced uncertainty over centuries--- more set in its ways, with fewer surprises, established, sedate.  Garcia-Marquez perhaps sees it in a similar way and it unnerves his Latin American protagonists.  An ex-dictator lives in a student garret, sells his jewels, and undergoes a useless operation.  A woman disappears \\"by accident\\" into a mental institution and a playboy dithers in a cheap Paris hotel, not knowing a word of French, while his young wife dies in a hospital.  A postal clerk spends years trying to see the Pope to convince him of his daughter's saintly qualities.  He lugs the deceased but uncorrupted daughter around in a huge case.  An aged ex-prostitute feels death is at her door, but actually it is something else.  Nobody really feels at home, nobody can trust their feelings, because everything works differently.  Europe isn't exactly an alien place for them, but they are, each time, unwitting victims of the unexpected.<br /><br />Garcia-Marquez is one of those authors who seem to write about ordinary people whose lives take strange twists.  But the worlds they inhabit, the people around them, the very fabric of their existence seem to me utterly fantastic.  His talent lies not in presenting ordinary life, but extraordinary life.  You accept a little more, a little more until suddenly you find yourself believing in the unbelievable.  In the great warrens of Western civilization, but also in the daily grinds of Asia, Africa, or Latin America, life may take interesting paths, or curious twists, but for the most part, it is very predictable.  These stories all have only the veneer of predictability; underneath the realism is full of spooky holes.  Yet, that is not only due to a magical tone as in novels like \\"The Autumn of the Patriarch\\" or \\"One Hundred Years of Misunderstanding\\", it is due to the author's constant combination of known daily life with near-fantasy.  You can hardly draw the line between them, so closely does he knit.  Great stories by a truly great talent.  Read them.their existence seem to me utterly fantastic.  His talent lies not in presenting ordinary life, but extraordinary life.  You accept a little more, a little more until suddenly you find yourself believing in the unbelievable.  In the great warrens of Western civilization, but also in the daily grinds of Asia, Africa, or Latin America, life may take interesting paths, or curious twists, but for the most part, it is very predictable.  These stories all have only the veneer of predictability; underneath the realism is full of spooky holes.  Yet, that is not only due to a magical tone as in novels like \\"The Autumn of the Patriarch\\" or \\"One Hundred Years of Misunderstanding\\", it is due to the author's constant combination of known daily life with near-fantasy.  You can hardly draw the line between them, so closely does he knit.  Great stories by a truly great talent.  Read them.   <br />	2004-10-28
US	52761040	R2U5RVCLFD2N3F	0691057281	104056107	The Amber Forest: A Reconstruction of a Vanished World.	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Bugs, Plants, Frogs in Sap Tip Us to Primeval Jungle	Millions of years ago, a meat-eating animal snuck through the primeval forest in what is now the Dominican Republic.  Taking a short break in the shade of the towering canopy, it sat on some bamboo shoots which broke off in its fur.  As the animal continued on its search for its next meal, the shoots began to irritate it.  Growling (as I imagine), it rubbed up against an algarrobo tree.  Some of the irritating plant fell out, along with one or two of the animal's hairs.  These things fell into some resin or sap which exuded from the tree.  The sap preserved them perfectly.  Later the large drop of sap fell to the ground, was covered by debris which turned to earth, burying the sap completely.  It lay there for a million or more years, then the ocean rose, taking the object to the bottom, where it was polished or preserved for more millions of years.  Finally, due to the tectonic movements of the earth's plates, the ocean bottom where the (now) amber lay rose up into the mountains of an island.  When Europeans arrived there in the tiny fragment of time known as \\"history\\" in this whole unbelievable span, they dug out the amber and found the preserved proof of that one moment in an animal's activities a possible 25 million years ago !<br /><br />Poinar and Poinar have created a fascinating scientific work with their reconstruction of what the forest of that epoch looked like.  Using the thousands of examples of plants, seeds, petals, leaves, pollen, insects, and frogs or lizards that fell into the tree sap and were preserved like time capsules, they describe the ancient jungle long before any man trod this earth.  They rely on the principle of behaviorial fixity-that is, the idea that species that fill certain ecological niches today did so in the past as well.  They describe dozens of strange creatures, mostly insects (because they were abundant and small enough to get trapped often) that inhabit today's tropical forests as well as those in the past.  The majority of the book is devoted to describing as many organisms as possible with an enormous number of black and white photographs and line drawings to help your imagination.  They also have a whole section of color photographs of the actual amber pieces.  At the end there is a short reconstruction (or summary) of the whole vanished forest as well as an interesting discussion of climatic change and the reason for the disappearance of many species between that time and the present. Not being a person with a scientific background, I found all these things excitingly different from my usual reading fare, but the language used-apart from having to deal with such terms as homozygotic, depurination, dehiscent, and phytotelmata, which don't exactly roll off my tongue-is understandable by any educated lay reader.  I found THE AMBER FOREST one of the most fascinating books of science that I have ever read and one of the best books in any field that I've read recently.  If learning about the symbiosis of plants and insects, parasites and hosts, ants and fungus, in fact all the biological world of a long-gone jungle, has any appeal to you, don't miss this work.ty of the book is devoted to describing as many organisms as possible with an enormous number of black and white photographs and line drawings to help your imagination.  They also have a whole section of color photographs of the actual amber pieces.  At the end there is a short reconstruction (or summary) of the whole vanished forest as well as an interesting discussion of climatic change and the reason for the disappearance of many species between that time and the present. Not being a person with a scientific background, I found all these things excitingly different from my usual reading fare, but the language used-apart from having to deal with such terms as homozygotic, depurination, dehiscent, and phytotelmata, which don't exactly roll off my tongue-is understandable by any educated lay reader.  I found THE AMBER FOREST one of the most fascinating books of science that I have ever read and one of the best books in any field that I've read recently.  If learning about the symbiosis of plants and insects, parasites and hosts, ants and fungus, in fact all the biological world of a long-gone jungle, has any appeal to you, don't miss this work. <br />	2004-10-18
US	52761040	R22P14LSJCLAIN	0671418521	866245411	Revenge of Lawn	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Angry chickens by the old pond	When I was a kid growing up in a small town north of Boston, I used to take care of a neighbor's chickens.  It was only when the family went to the Cape for vacations. I had to let the chickens out of their coop in the morning.  They always seemed glad to see daylight.  Though they were hungry, they never got used to me.  They'd run around clucking and squawking, wishing I'd disappear and leave them to their chicken business.  When I threw food on the ground, they really got wild.  They'd run around like crazy.  I had to collect the eggs, take them up onto the neighbors' back porch and put them in a basket.  The chicken coop stood just before a patch of weeds and brush by a old pond where turtles lived and I could catch tadpoles.  I grew up.  Then it was the Sixties and I started to read Richard Brautigan.  I loved that guy's writing.  And you know ?  I still love it.  He must be one of America's great twentieth century writers, but forgotten.  I haven't forgotten him.  He's all around, just like chicken.  Maybe writing today is more like supermarket frozen chicken, but Brautigan has that feeling of early summer mornings when you hadn't been spoiled by too much living.  His work is poignant, funny, sad, and beautiful.  You can fill in your own adjectives if you read books like REVENGE OF THE LAWN.  I strongly recommend that you do.  A lot of his stories are pieces of genius.  Describing them only destroys them.  You have to read them, each a little haiku of its own.  A haiku on a hundred bucks a month.  Having a lot of money isn't everything.  Just take a good look at life.  Chickens are as good a place to start as anywhere.  Brautigan killed himself and that was the world's loss.  I still miss having more Brautigan stories.  I've read them all several times.	2004-10-12
US	52761040	R3QTGWC9U3DD54	0520034201	462791423	Cebuano Sorcery: Malign Magic in the Philippines	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Leveling the Playing Field in Uncertain Times	Early Spanish visitors to the Philippines recorded certain kinds of sorcery being practiced.  People attacked their enemies by getting a sorcerer to cast spells that would make the opponents sick.  Centuries later, in the 1960s, Lieban found similar activity still very common in the Cebuano-speaking Visayan region of the central Philippines.  Despite the impact of the long Spanish rule, several decades of American control, World War II, and the independent Filipino government's efforts to bring modernization, sorcery persisted.  Why was this ?<br /><br />CEBUANO SORCERY may not be long (150pp.), but it is definitely to the point.  We not only learn how various sorcerers and witches operate in Cebuano society, and how they view their own role, but also investigate local folk beliefs about illness and health, the involuntary symbiosis between sorcerers and healers (who may be one and the same person), and the relation of sorcery to suspicion, aggression, and social conflict among Cebuanos in both rural and urban areas.  Although this study is now almost 40 years old, I found it very relevant.  Large numbers of societies in the so-called Third World still have trouble enforcing national law.  Many people live outside the sometimes-impartial, but distant court system, relying on more traditional methods of social control.  When quarrels arise over land, over love/sex relationships, or because of envy, sorcery---or mere fear in its efficacy---can either prevent violence or help those who feel powerless attain more power.  Philippine sorcerers too went into practice to obtain more power in society.  Communities in Negros and Cebu back in the early 1960s had modern medical practitioners, but these were often felt to be too far off, too expensive, or too socially distant.  People still felt more comfortable going to sorcerers, who also healed clients \\"attacked\\" by other sorcerers.  Both clients and sorcerers distinguished between \\"natural\\" illness and \\"supernatural\\" illness, with the later being caused by sorcery.  However, a large number of conflicting ideas and beliefs about sorcery existed among the Cebuanos interviewed by the author; there was by no means a unified, airtight concept as to what went on.  As is proper in anthropological studies, the author did not discuss whether sorcery actually worked, from an American's point of view.  He dealt exclusively with the way Cebuano people looked at it.  The conclusion---that belief in and use of sorcery tended to diminish with the rise of new wealth and patterns of consumption, but increase in situations where people feared redistribution of a given size pie---could have raised many questions in the Cold War era when the book came out.  Today, it may be taken more as a calm observation.  CEBUANO SORCERY combines a terse writing style with clear presentation of data, with a large number of interesting ideas about medical anthropology, Filipino society, and the nexus of sorcery, power, and social conflict.  Readers may use it in conjunction with many modern works on Southeast Asia and religion, medical anthropology, or social conflict.ness, with the later being caused by sorcery.  However, a large number of conflicting ideas and beliefs about sorcery existed among the Cebuanos interviewed by the author; there was by no means a unified, airtight concept as to what went on.  As is proper in anthropological studies, the author did not discuss whether sorcery actually worked, from an American's point of view.  He dealt exclusively with the way Cebuano people looked at it.  The conclusion---that belief in and use of sorcery tended to diminish with the rise of new wealth and patterns of consumption, but increase in situations where people feared redistribution of a given size pie---could have raised many questions in the Cold War era when the book came out.  Today, it may be taken more as a calm observation.  CEBUANO SORCERY combines a terse writing style with clear presentation of data, with a large number of interesting ideas about medical anthropology, Filipino society, and the nexus of sorcery, power, and social conflict.  Readers may use it in conjunction with many modern works on Southeast Asia and religion, medical anthropology, or social conflict. <br />	2004-10-11
US	52761040	R1XJ2RV4QT5O8V	0140189416	956359818	The Adventures of Augie March (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	59	65	N	N	Nobody Makes It Through Life Alive	When I was a kid, some of my classmates already knew what they wanted to be.  They marched in a straight line towards the goal.  I, however, never knew what I wanted to do.  I liked studying, but had no vision of a future.  I drifted along and climbed into whatever boats came within reach.  Augie March is a young Chicagoan from a broken home, who drifts with the tides as well, in the period 1927-1947.  He winds up smuggling illegal immigrants, stealing books, travelling to Mexico, trying to train an eagle to catch iguanas, and playing poker.  After a few good, bad and indifferent experiences with women, he joins the Merchant Marine during World War II, gets married to a would-be actress, and survives a ship torpedoing.  When we leave Augie, he's making illegal business deals in Europe.  Has he ever made a really conscious decision ?  It's not clear.  Bellow's novel is full of humor, philosophy, and insights on life.  For example, on page 305 --\\"But I had the idea also that you don't take so wide a stand that it makes a human life impossible, nor try to bring together irreconciliables that destroy you, but try out what of human you can live with first.\\"<br /><br />  THE ADVENTURES OF AUGIE MARCH is an almost endless literary parade of portraits, of weird and wonderful characters from many walks of life.  It's like a pilgrimage back in time to another America, another age---perhaps more innocent in some respects, but not so smooth, not so well-rounded, a thrusting, struggling America where raw money power arbited so much.  Even though the book could have been cut down a bit here and there because 617 pages is overlong, Bellow's novel will remain a classic of American and world fiction for two reasons.  First, because human nature scarcely changes.  So many of the people surrounding Augie March are universal characters, found everywhere and everywhen.  Their motives are not simple, their behavior sometimes inexplicable, but always within the realm of the word \\"human\\".  They strive, they succeed, they fail, they cop out, and they never remain the same.  They transform as they live.  Life reshapes them.  The second reason that I think this book will remain a classic-and the reason why I'm giving it five stars on Amazon---is the language.  Hemingway and Fitzgerald wrote clearly and simply.  Perhaps we can say that Hawthorne and Melville's prose was very ornate, stylistic.  Faulkner....well, yes, Faulkner.  But Bellow's prose reminded me of nothing so much as a Persian carpet---colorful, ornate, and full of useless little frills that lead nowhere, do not relate to much, and yet add such richness to the text.  Some examples that I liked (but the novel is chock full of them)  p.156  \\"For there was his stability in the green leather seat, plus his unshaking, high-placed knees beside the jade onion of the gear knob, his hands trimmed with sandy hairs on the wheel, the hypersmoothness of the motor that made you feel deceived in the speedometer that stood at eighty.\\"<br /><br />  p.205  on the ancient Greeks  \\" But still they are the admiration of the rest of the mud-sprung, famine-knifed, street-pounding, war-rattled, difficult, painstaking, kicked in the belly, grief and cartilage mankind, the multitude, some under a coal-sucking Vesuvius of chaos smoke, some inside a heaving Calcutta midnight, who very well know where they are.\\"<br /><br />p.227  `Well, now, who can really expect the daily facts to go, toil or prisons to go, oatmeal and laundry tickets and all the rest, and insist that all moments be raised to the greatest importance, demand that everyone breathe the pointy, star-furnished air at its highest difficulty, abolish all brick, vault-like rooms, all dreariness, and live like prophets or gods ?\\"<br /><br />Wow !  If you like writing like this, if you want a rich feast of language, Bellow is your man and this is your novel.uman\\".  They strive, they succeed, they fail, they cop out, and they never remain the same.  They transform as they live.  Life reshapes them.  The second reason that I think this book will remain a classic-and the reason why I'm giving it five stars on Amazon---is the language.  Hemingway and Fitzgerald wrote clearly and simply.  Perhaps we can say that Hawthorne and Melville's prose was very ornate, stylistic.  Faulkner....well, yes, Faulkner.  But Bellow's prose reminded me of nothing so much as a Persian carpet---colorful, ornate, and full of useless little frills that lead nowhere, do not relate to much, and yet add such richness to the text.   Some examples that I liked (but the novel is chock full of them)  p.156  \\"For there was his stability in the green leather seat, plus his unshaking, high-placed knees beside the jade onion of the gear knob, his hands trimmed with sandy hairs on the wheel, the hypersmoothness of the motor that made you feel deceived in the speedometer that stood at eighty.\\"    <br />  p.205  on the ancient Greeks  \\" But still they are the admiration of the rest of the mud-sprung, famine-knifed, street-pounding, war-rattled, difficult, painstaking, kicked in the belly, grief and cartilage mankind, the multitude, some under a coal-sucking Vesuvius of chaos smoke, some inside a heaving Calcutta midnight, who very well know where they are.\\" <br />p.227  `Well, now, who can really expect the daily facts to go, toil or prisons to go, oatmeal and laundry tickets and all the rest, and insist that all moments be raised to the greatest importance, demand that everyone breathe the pointy, star-furnished air at its highest difficulty, abolish all brick, vault-like rooms, all dreariness, and live like prophets or gods ?\\" <br /> <br />Wow !  If you like writing like this, if you want a rich feast of language, Bellow is your man and this is your novel.   <br />	2004-09-28
US	52761040	R2NTUGC8VVG321	034076368X	179355152	Czechoslovakia (Brief Histories)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	a competent job	Telling ninety years of a national history is no joke.  You can fill up hundreds of pages about a single individual after all.  So, when you set out to tell the modern history of a nation that has not been peripheral to 20th century history, but rather, right spang in the middle of it, you have to make a lot of hard choices.  If you plan to confine your history to 167 pages, then you REALLY have to select carefully and must be ready to gloss over a huge amount of material.  Still, if you don't at least refer to a number of topics, critics will have your hide; readers with special interests will complain or trash your book.  Given these points, I think Dowling has done an excellent job with CZECHOSLOVAKIA, part of Arnold Press' series called \\"Brief Histories\\".<br /><br />I especially liked the arrangement of chapters here, which accurately reflect the periods lived through by the people of this unfortunate country.  We start with World War I and the making of the state out of two separate sections of Austria-Hungary.  After covering the 20 years from 1918-1938 as the First Republic and the betrayal of Central Europe's only democracy by Britain and France at Munich, we get into the Nazi occupation and resistance.  What follow are sections on the Communist takeover in 1948, the long dreary period of Stalinist and post-Stalinist rule, the hope of the Prague Spring which was soon crushed by Soviet tanks, then 20 more years of political and cultural repression combined with economic and environmental disaster.  Dissent rumbled throughout, finally coalescing and triumphing in the unbelievable year 1989 with the Velvet Revolution.  Two years later, Czechoslovakia disappeared from world maps, probably forever, replaced by two smaller national states.  A reader like myself, with only a general idea of the events described, can learn a great deal.  Dowling presents problems, questions, or trends in succinct sentences, then discusses each.  For people not familiar with Central European history, the basic differences between the Czech lands and Slovakia stemming from very different historical experience will be eye-opening. My one criticism of the book is that it concentrates heavily on political fignres and events.  Everyone from Vaclav Havel to Josef Skvorecky, from Milos Forman to Alfons Mucha rates mentions, but the cultural, economic, and social are subordinated to the political.  As I said in the beginning, an author has to make hard choices in a book of this length.  Overall, it is a very competent job.ral European history, the basic differences between the Czech lands and Slovakia stemming from very different historical experience will be eye-opening. My one criticism of the book is that it concentrates heavily on political fignres and events.  Everyone from Vaclav Havel to Josef Skvorecky, from Milos Forman to Alfons Mucha rates mentions, but the cultural, economic, and social are subordinated to the political.  As I said in the beginning, an author has to make hard choices in a book of this length.  Overall, it is a very competent job. <br />	2004-09-02
US	52761040	R58HU4XVC2D39	0704341131	602361470	Amritvela	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Vignettes, not stories; a memoir, not a novel	To be trite, the life of an expatriate has its ups and downs.  I should know, I was one for many years. having emigrated to another land.  The greater the cultural difference between old and new countries, the greater the sense of dislocation.  Indian migrants to the UK, Canada, or the USA must often feel, as Dhingra says, `misfits, misunderstood, misinterpreted'.  They receive the sharp end of the stereotypes the host culture carries.  Yet, when expatriates (or `immigrants' as most people call them) return home, they are no longer the same, they have moved in one direction, the old country in another.  At last, the realization seeps through---they feel ill at ease in two cultures !  Home is hard to find indeed.  AMRITVELA is a subtly drawn portrait of an Indian woman, married to an Englishman, with a daughter, come back to her relatives in India, looking for something indefinite, a sense of belonging perhaps, or the \\"belongingness\\" of an Indian childhood before her parents took her to England.  She vaguely dreams of returning to India to live, but cannot find any practical way to do this.  She tries to sort out impressions, reach conclusions on the nature of Indian society.  She obviously cannot maneuver very skillfully in Indian society, not even in the upper class Punjabi circles of New Delhi. That is the substance of this book.  I admired Dhingra's portraits and her skill in describing what India and Indian relationships look like to a Western (or Westernized) eye.  Some, like her chapter on a visit to a Music Institute, are masterful and recalled to mind many an experience during my own sojourns in that endlessly fascinating and always enveloping country.  However, if you are looking for a novel with a plot; a story in which something actually happens, you may be barking up the wrong tree here.  This is introspection writ large.  These are attractive vignettes with occasional bumpy \\"impartings of information\\" through awkward dialogues.  The title refers to a special time of day or sweet moments in life---when the author/protagonist dreamed of losing her ambiguous status and becoming \\"one with India\\".  I suspect AMRITVELA could appeal above all to women with similar backgrounds to Dhingra's or to people searching for direction in life.  I don't think they would find too many answers, but it might ease that pain which comes with every tearing up of roots.ecial time of day or sweet moments in life---when the author/protagonist dreamed of losing her ambiguous status and becoming \\"one with India\\".  I suspect AMRITVELA could appeal above all to women with similar backgrounds to Dhingra's or to people searching for direction in life.  I don't think they would find too many answers, but it might ease that pain which comes with every tearing up of roots.   <br />	2004-08-27
US	52761040	RY7UAP2RIO9UK	0394481925	856157639	A history of the Swedish people	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Puncturing a few balloons	In every country, you've got the official history, full of glorious deeds and virtuous causes, peopled by heroes and Big Men, once in a while an Astonishing Woman.  Most nations base their national image on such a history.  Back before World War II, that sort of history was standard, taught in all the schools to generations of bored kids.  The by-product usually turned out to be rampant chauvinism.  Since then, at least in the USA and Australia, school history has been toned down somewhat.  Still, though, we can find an extreme reluctance to call things by their proper names.  I'm totally unfamiliar with the history books of other countries, but most academic histories are either scholarly tomes which deal with details, or sweeping panoramas describing complicated processes over centuries.  I happen to like both types.  But it is rare to find a book like Moberg's A HISTORY OF THE SWEDISH PEOPLE, written by a man who perhaps was better known for his novels.<br /><br />Moberg does not start from prehistory and move patiently, step by step, up through the centuries. We find extremely few dates and only some names---which is just as well, considering the paucity of monickers that seems to have existed in medieval Sweden, where every second royal bore the name of Valdemar, Erik or Magnus.  Instead, the author takes a handful of topics and bases his chapters on these.  Each topic pricks a certain balloon, perhaps those most often flown in the old, official versions of Swedish history.  \\"The Swedes As a Proud, Free Race\\".  Moberg's first chapter shows that for centuries, more than half the population were bonded laborers, often little better than slaves.  \\"100 Kings\\".  Moberg shows that this ancient tally of royal Swedes is little more than a persistent myth.  There is no proof that most existed at all.  \\"A Family of Royal Criminals\\".  Here he goes to town, with considerable humor, on the Folkung dynasty, whom he likens to gangsters and fictional characters in novels about \\"bad guys\\".  In other chapters, Moberg tries to create a history of the common people of prehistoric and medieval Sweden---the ancient farmers, the Viking seafarers, and the medieval population.  He dwells long on the Black Death of the 14th century, which he calls the biggest event of the Middle Ages in Sweden.  It killed a third of the population.  And not leaving out the female half of the population, he devotes considerable space to Sweden's most famous saint, St. Bridget and Queen Margareta, who presided over the short-lived union of Kalmar, which covered Norway, Denmark, and Sweden back in the period 1397-1457, as well as constantly noting the effect various trends and practices would have had on women.  Though a book of this kind necessarily leaves out as much as it puts in, I can recommend A HISTORY OF THE SWEDISH PEOPLE for its readability (though the translation is a bit weak at times), its humor and directness, its socialist idealism, and its interesting slant on the Swedish picture.  In criticism I might say that he sometimes indulges his fancy for including information on whatever caught his attention.  Lateral thinking is fine, but a little discipline....?  The final word: every country should have its Moberg.  Down with balloons !!bout \\"bad guys\\".  In other chapters, Moberg tries to create a history of the common people of prehistoric and medieval Sweden---the ancient farmers, the Viking seafarers, and the medieval population.  He dwells long on the Black Death of the 14th century, which he calls the biggest event of the Middle Ages in Sweden.  It killed a third of the population.  And not leaving out the female half of the population, he devotes considerable space to Sweden's most famous saint, St. Bridget and Queen Margareta, who presided over the short-lived union of Kalmar, which covered Norway, Denmark, and Sweden back in the period 1397-1457, as well as constantly noting the effect various trends and practices would have had on women.  Though a book of this kind necessarily leaves out as much as it puts in, I can recommend A HISTORY OF THE SWEDISH PEOPLE for its readability (though the translation is a bit weak at times), its humor and directness, its socialist idealism, and its interesting slant on the Swedish picture.  In criticism I might say that he sometimes indulges his fancy for including information on whatever caught his attention.  Lateral thinking is fine, but a little discipline....?  The final word: every country should have its Moberg.  Down with balloons !! <br /> <br />	2004-08-17
US	52761040	R3GUV72MK7HYZ9	0451527259	46808097	Jude the Obscure (Signet Classics)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Mason, Maid Moot Marriage, Miss Mark	More than most novels I have read, JUDE THE OBSCURE consists of an extraordinary number of reverses of position, changes in thought, and zigzags of principle.  With a background of rural England or smaller towns such as Oxford, (called Christchurch here) this dark story describes the tragic lives of two people who dare---far before our time---to consider love and marriage in a different way.  Jude Fawley aspires to be a scholar or even a minister of God, but wanders into an unfortunate conventional marriage with Arabella, a barmaid with an eye for the main chance.  He becomes a stone mason, but pores over Latin and Greek texts by night.  Despite forewarnings of the unhappiness in marriage which runs in his family, he falls for a cousin, Sue Bridehead, an ethereal, philosophically-inclined woman, who loves Jude in return but marries a dry schoolteacher despite that.  Later, as Jude's wife has run off to Australia and as Sue regrets her decision, they come together at last, only to go through a series of extraordinary vicissitudes.  One cannot help but wonder if Sue is not more than a little mad.  Rain, wind, dark church towers, and damp stones fill this story with atmosphere, but the constant changes in direction and convenient appearances of previous characters at propitious moments may prove a little aggravating.  Though these can be taken as criticisms on my part, I admired Hardy's last novel as an attempt to do a very difficult thing---to show the lives of two ordinary people who at some moments transcend their ordinariness with sublime courage, only to lose their way and sink back into the sordid murk of daily existence and terrible tragedy.  The characters, in the end, achieve nothing, yet they lived, they too reflect the extraordinary variety of the human condition.  Jude, the character, reflects on his life, saying, \\"...it was my poverty and not my will that consented to be beaten.  It takes two or three generations to do what I tried to do in one; and my impulses-affections-vices perhaps they should be called-were too strong not to hamper a man without advantages, who should be as cold-blooded as a fish and as selfish as a pig to have a really good chance of being one of this country's worthies.\\"  Hardy's condemnation of middle class hypocrisy and the narrowness of \\"scholars\\" comes through constantly.  Set against the entire array of world literature available, perhaps JUDE THE OBSCURE is not at the top of the scale----Hardy's indecision as to the direction of his plot prevents that---- but it is still a good novel.ulses-affections-vices perhaps they should be called-were too strong not to hamper a man without advantages, who should be as cold-blooded as a fish and as selfish as a pig to have a really good chance of being one of this country's worthies.\\"  Hardy's condemnation of middle class hypocrisy and the narrowness of \\"scholars\\" comes through constantly.  Set against the entire array of world literature available, perhaps JUDE THE OBSCURE is not at the top of the scale----Hardy's indecision as to the direction of his plot prevents that---- but it is still a good novel.   <br />	2004-08-15
US	52761040	RIPTU8DIEOLLT	029912570X	211016710	Paths in the Rainforests: Toward a History of Political Tradition in Equatorial Africa	Books	5	18	18	N	N	a classic work of history	A few years ago I read John Womack Jr.?s ?Zapata and the Mexican Revolution? which struck me as being the ultimate book on the subject.  While Vansina?s PATHS IN THE RAINFORESTS bears little similarity to the former book, it does resemble it in one way:  it must change the way people look at its subject, it is an earth-shaking work in tropical African history.  As an interested, but non-specialist reader, I found PATHS IN THE RAINFORESTS extremely hard going, though the writing is clear.  The volume of unfamiliar names of peoples, rivers, and other geographical features is overwhelming, despite the many excellent maps provided.  Vansina backs up his arguments about political evolution in rainforest Africa with an enormous array of facts, Bantu linguistic transformations, and difficult kinship terminologies.  The system of using semantic innovations and transformations over centuries to ?excavate? knowledge about economic and political changes in tropical African societies is extremely impressive, but must have been incredibly hard to do.  Except for serious students of history or African history, the volume will not appeal to many.  However, if you are a reader of challenging books, rather than those which take the ?easy path?, then you will find this particular path through the rainforests both rewarding and eye-opening.<br /><br />After first contact with African cultures in the equatorial forest zone of central Africa, Westerners tended to regard them as 1) being cut from a single cloth, 2) unchanging.  Albert Schweitzer?s view of Africans as sick, poor, primitive, and never-changing permeates Western thinking beyond academia. ?Tradition? meant that they had no history, but had lived the same way for thousands of years.  As no written records existed, scholars tended to write central Africans off, saying that they were people ?without history?.  Vansina shows, in a most scholarly way---mustering thousands of facts, using every possible technique except DNA research (which didn?t exist when he wrote)---that these presumptions are all products of ignorance and prejudice.  New crops, new technologies, political and social innovations abounded.  The first two chapters explore the rainforest environment and the original Bantu tradition, several millennia old.  The following three chapters show how the tradition changed in separate regions of the equatorial forest region.  The changes encompass an amazing variety of political innovation.  Chapter Seven deals with the arrival of the Europeans on the Atlantic coast and the challenge that their slave trading and new material goods posed to the African societies of the time.  The next chapter, most grim, describes the destruction of the African societies during the colonial period---wars conducted by colonial armies exterminated over half the population, while missionaries who scorned everything African tried to erase the culture of the survivors.  The region?s suffering today stems from this history.  The last section of the book discusses trends and patterns in history and tradition in general.  While historians have often written as if the process of political development in the world, from tribe to empire, is known and set, Vansina questions that assumption.  If major kingdoms appeared in the Kongo area, but did not elsewhere, should we regard their absence as a case of abnormal or arrested development ?  Or should we presume that many roads are possible ?  This and many other questions abound in this seminal book.  I cannot imagine the amount of work and accumulated scholarship necessary to complete it.  It is surely a masterpiece.earch (which didn?t exist when he wrote)---that these presumptions are all products of ignorance and prejudice.  New crops, new technologies, political and social innovations abounded.  The first two chapters explore the rainforest environment and the original Bantu tradition, several millennia old.  The following three chapters show how the tradition changed in separate regions of the equatorial forest region.  The changes encompass an amazing variety of political innovation.  Chapter Seven deals with the arrival of the Europeans on the Atlantic coast and the challenge that their slave trading and new material goods posed to the African societies of the time.  The next chapter, most grim, describes the destruction of the African societies during the colonial period---wars conducted by colonial armies exterminated over half the population, while missionaries who scorned everything African tried to erase the culture of the survivors.  The region?s suffering today stems from this history.  The last section of the book discusses trends and patterns in history and tradition in general.  While historians have often written as if the process of political development in the world, from tribe to empire, is known and set, Vansina questions that assumption.  If major kingdoms appeared in the Kongo area, but did not elsewhere, should we regard their absence as a case of abnormal or arrested development ?  Or should we presume that many roads are possible ?  This and many other questions abound in this seminal book.  I cannot imagine the amount of work and accumulated scholarship necessary to complete it.  It is surely a masterpiece.          <br /> <br />	2004-07-20
US	52761040	R20MI1CDHJD8WG	023103654X	946537293	Ship of Sulaiman (Persian heritage series, no. 11)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Jaundiced Persian gaze at 17th century Siam	Let's face it.  How many punters out there are clamoring to read a book written in the literary style of Safavid Persia about a difficult diplomatic mission to Thailand back in 1685-88 ?  The answer is not exactly blowing in the wind.  When you add countless passages which may have titillated the minds of seventeenth century Persian readers, but which seem quite stilted or corny to those of the globalized early 21st, this book, by a minor official named Muhammad Rabi ibn Muhammad Ibrahim, seems destined to gather dust in large libraries.  The Columbia University Persian Heritage Series, which published THE SHIP OF SULAIMAN in 1972, did itself a disservice by not regarding the book as relevant to Southeast Asian Studies as well.  Thus, while there are ample footnotes explaining obscure references to Iranian or general Muslim cultural practice or literature, footnotes which give you connections to places, people, and events in Iran, nothing guides the reader to similar knowledge about Siam (Thailand).  How accurate are the author's observations ?  When he uses Thai terms, are they comprehensible to anyone who knows Thai ?  What can we connect to his often-fantastic tales, to his notes on life in monsoon Asia in those days ?  Aside from three pages in the preface, not a word.<br />Still, I found a lot of interest in the story of an unsuccessful Persian mission to the court of Thailand.  Though I had read of the Greek favorite of the Siamese king, an adventurer named Phaulkon, I never knew that there had been an Iranian community in the country as well.  Apparently, they had considerable pull at the court, but dissipated their advantageous position through internecine quarrels and corruption.  Perhaps cultural arrogance also played a role.  If you ever wondered if anyone ever approached 19th century European/American missionaries in sheer, pigheaded bigotry and contempt for other cultures, the answer provided here is \\"yes\\".  \\"The food of the Siamese...in no way resembles normal, proper foods and the natives are not familiar with intelligent methods of preparing meals.  In fact no one in Siam really knows how to cook and eat or even how to sit correctly at table.  The Siamese have only recently arrived from the world of bestiality to the realm of humanity.\\"[p.68]  The Iranians attend a mosque daily, which the ruler has permitted the community to build, having ordered a temple knocked down to accommodate them.  \\"The preacher mounted the pulpit and in a loud voice cursed and mocked the infidels and idolaters. ......\\"[p.78]  The king, though he did study Islam, \\"held firmly to the path of ingratitude before his Maker and to this day he continues on the road of ignorance.[p.99]  The Siamese Buddhist beliefs are constantly referred to as foolish nonsense and confused doctrines.  In addition to the story of his mission, and the truly horrendous sea voyages there and back, the author tries to include as much information as possible about other countries of the East, such as Pegu, Aceh, Japan, China, and the Spanish colony at Manila.  Elephants seem to have fascinated him-the capture and taming of wild elephants takes up a lot of space.  As in Marco Polo's time, magical and fantastical elements lie tightly intertwined with economic or historical facts.  In all, this volume is meant for a few specialists in Persian literary history or antique travel writing.  I certainly learned something about both Iranian and Thai history, but it was rather a hard slog.les normal, proper foods and the natives are not familiar with intelligent methods of preparing meals.  In fact no one in Siam really knows how to cook and eat or even how to sit correctly at table.  The Siamese have only recently arrived from the world of bestiality to the realm of humanity.\\"[p.68]  The Iranians attend a mosque daily, which the ruler has permitted the community to build, having ordered a temple knocked down to accommodate them.  \\"The preacher mounted the pulpit and in a loud voice cursed and mocked the infidels and idolaters. ......\\"[p.78]  The king, though he did study Islam, \\"held firmly to the path of ingratitude before his Maker and to this day he continues on the road of ignorance.[p.99]  The Siamese Buddhist beliefs are constantly referred to as foolish nonsense and confused doctrines.  In addition to the story of his mission, and the truly horrendous sea voyages there and back, the author tries to include as much information as possible about other countries of the East, such as Pegu, Aceh, Japan, China, and the Spanish colony at Manila.  Elephants seem to have fascinated him-the capture and taming of wild elephants takes up a lot of space.  As in Marco Polo's time, magical and fantastical elements lie tightly intertwined with economic or historical facts.  In all, this volume is meant for a few specialists in Persian literary history or antique travel writing.   I certainly learned something about both Iranian and Thai history, but it was rather a hard slog.	2004-06-27
US	52761040	R24VCDZ0LHT3P1	055327449X	303683311	The Illustrated Man (Grand Master Editions)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Poignant Tales of Yesterdays Future	This group of highly imaginative tales, written in 1948-51, do nothing if not illustrate that 1) it's extremely difficult to predict the future and 2) no matter how much we struggle against it, we probably are doomed to reflect our own times and cultural environment.  Over half a century after Ray Bradbury wrote these entertaining stories, we have a lot of answers to questions about the (then) future thanks to hindsight.  Bradbury's characters still smoke like chimneys, they still use clunky mid-20th century machines for the most part---lugging electrical equipment and card tables across the light years in their bronze spaceships.  There's only the vaguest hint of a computer (\\"The City\\") and then of the giant, controlling variety.  Above all, there is no vision of the infinitely varied America of today---the space explorers in these stories are nearly all white Anglosaxons who speak and behave as white people did in the early 1950s.  The cultural oppositions and arguments in the stories are those of mid-century America.  While it is true that Bradbury writes of human nature it is also true that the nature he describes is as we saw it half a century ago.<br />  However, Bradbury covers a wide range of topics: child psychology; machine vs. man; imagination and emotion vs. cold science; religion; time travel, and race relations.  Some of the stories are unbelievably poignant.  In fact, I would say that  poignancy---the ability to bring out that quality without being sappy or twee---is Bradbury's strongest suit.  If you don't like science fiction, this book probably isn't for you, but it certainly has made its mark on American culture, with 47 printings through 1990.  One story, \\"The Exiles\\", probably laid the basis for his later \\"Fahrenheit 451\\".  Bradbury wrote many stories which featured the \\"wrap-around-comfort, totally mechanized houses\\" that appear in several works in this volume.  How many Hollywood movies of the last 15 years owe a debt to \\"The Fox and the Forest\\", a story of people escaping through time from a bad future to a quieter or more prosperous present ?  THE ILLUSTRATED MAN is a minor American classic in a perennially shortchanged genre, science fiction.  The dated technology and cultural styles may seem primitive today, but even they add a dimension of telling us about the times in which they were written as well as about the future as they saw it then.Forest\\", a story of people escaping through time from a bad future to a quieter or more prosperous present ?  THE ILLUSTRATED MAN is a minor American classic in a perennially shortchanged genre, science fiction.  The dated technology and cultural styles may seem primitive today, but even they add a dimension of telling us about the times in which they were written as well as about the future as they saw it then.	2004-06-26
US	52761040	R2AWHSIHDZ8QQV	0391028987	468970190	Nat Turner's Slave Rebellion: Together With the Full Text of the So-Called "Confessions" of Nat Turner Made in Prison in 1831	Books	3	1	1	N	N	American Wars of Liberation, Part II	When I was a college student in the early `60s, Herbert Aptheker was referred to as a Marxist historian.  Maybe he was or maybe that was just part of the spirit of those somewhat cramped times, when anyone who challenged authority or wanted to speak his mind contrary to \\"accepted wisdom\\" ran the risk of being labelled Marxist, red, or Communist.  Certainly, after reading this book---published by the \\"radical\\" Grove Press in 1968---I cannot find anything remotely resembling Communism or leftwing ideas.  Perhaps at the time, ideas such as those found in NAT TURNER'S SLAVE REBELLION were considered controversial.  Daring to praise the spirit and intelligence of a man who tried to rebel against an evil, ugly system was still radical.  It is not so today, at least not so far as slavery is concerned.  We have our own, modern bogeymen of whom it is better not to speak.<br />Aptheker documents the origins, local economic and social conditions, the mood among slaves, and the mood among whites as concerned the very institution of slavery before the two-day rebellion which occurred in Virginia in 1831.  He notes the rise in black population vis-&agrave;-vis the white population.  He uses many quotes from either contemporary writers or those who wrote much later and footnotes everything scrupulously.  The bulk of this short work is divided into three sections: the Environment, the Event, and the Effects.  I cannot say the book makes thrilling reading, nor will it hold the attention of many.  Aptheker ably establishes that Nat Turner's Rebellion belongs in that class of historical movement led by a prophet and disastrously unprepared for real war.  Such movements have sprung up everywhere throughout history, from Brazil to India, from the American West to medieval Europe.  The most fascinating reading is Nat Turner's \\"confession\\" itself, taken after his capture, a few months later.  We read the words of a prophet strained through the mind and pen of a local man of average intelligence who believed he was interviewing a dangerous criminal, nothing more.  Few such interviews with prophets---even of this quality---exist.  Perhaps there are other, better books on Nat Turner.  If so, read them.  He deserves to be far better known, a would-be American Spartacus.  Aptheker's pioneering work is solid, but difficult reading, hence my grade of only three stars.ce who believed he was interviewing a dangerous criminal, nothing more.   Few such interviews with prophets---even of this quality---exist.  Perhaps there are other, better books on Nat Turner.  If so, read them.  He deserves to be far better known, a would-be American Spartacus.  Aptheker's pioneering work is solid, but difficult reading, hence my grade of only three stars.	2004-06-16
US	52761040	R3OAD4S8SP4V00	0449214796	308427158	Magician of Lublin	Books	5	31	33	N	N	Trickster Tumbles, Taps into Truth	But can we know what God wants us to do ?  Isn't it a case of Man sewing throughout his lifetime the clothes that fit him ?  We ask a million questions, however the answers lie only within.  You have to do as you see fit.  Some say the discipline of orthodox religion points out the road; every bird, every snowflake, every acorn lying on the grass is proof of God's existence.  Others deny the whole thing and swear God never existed.  Singer's tale of a religiously-lapsed Jewish magician/acrobat is not so much about tricks or a series of interlocking events as about a man torn between Good and Evil.  Though Yasha lives on the edge of Polish society and associates with the most dubious of characters, he has a conscience, he loves women and is kind to animals, but always manipulates them to his own ends.  He is more and more plagued by self-doubt and indecision as he grows older, until he can no longer act.  His life of flimflam grifting, adultery, and hocus-pocus unravels when he ventures to break the 8th commandment---Thou Shalt Not Steal.  He himself knows that he has at last gone too far.  His four women, his course of dubious activity, his pride in his ability---all then fall away.  In the end, Yasha takes a drastic and unexpected measure in order to control his desires and his straying from the path of the righteous.  He achieves the fame which eluded him for so many years as a magician.  The struggle within him continues unabated.  Yasha remains a thinker, a questioner, a wonderer, not a blind accepter of given wisdom.<br />THE MAGICIAN OF LUBLIN epitomizes, in the form of a novel, the basic elements of Jewish thinking.  Or at least, it asks and tries to answer the most basic questions of that tradition.  It is certainly an interesting novel, but it is also a masterpiece of Jewish philosophy.  Man is born to question.  If you don't question, you are not even alive.  But don't expect to get \\"THE\\" answer because it doesn't exist.  Nobel Prize winner, Isaac Bashevis Singer, as always, presents a vivid picture of the lost world of the East European Jews in all its gritty piety and desperate poverty., the world swallowed up by Evil, no matter how many prayers were said.  For as it is written, (at least to paraphrase a certain well-known spaghetti western), \\"when a man with a prayer meets a man with a gun, the man with a prayer is a dead man\\".  Singer was lucky enough to escape, but not unmarked, no, not at all.  As I started, so I will finish.  In view of the meaningless destruction of a whole world wrought by the Holocaust, how can we know what God wants us to do ?  This book contains a particular answer, but the quest continues.is Singer, as always, presents a vivid picture of the lost world of the East European Jews in all its gritty piety and desperate poverty., the world swallowed up by Evil, no matter how many prayers were said.  For as it is written, (at least to paraphrase a certain well-known spaghetti western), \\"when a man with a prayer meets a man with a gun, the man with a prayer is a dead man\\".  Singer was lucky enough to escape, but not unmarked, no, not at all.  As I started, so I will finish.  In view of the meaningless destruction of a whole world wrought by the Holocaust, how can we know what God wants us to do ?  This book contains a particular answer, but the quest continues.	2004-06-12
US	52761040	R149FXIGBB07VA	0375719202	462911655	Appointment in Samarra: A Novel	Books	3	14	25	N	N	WASP Wastrel Wimps Out	It all depends.  If you class John O'Hara as an American writer of popular fiction, then he must be up there at the very top with detailed descriptions of his society, use of both colloquial and literary language, and character development.  If, on the other hand, you put him in that category we often label \\"classic fiction\\", then he doesn't measure up to the other greats of his time.  I can't place O'Hara alongside Faulkner, Hemingway, Lewis, Fitzgerald, or even Anderson.  Still, APPOINTMENT IN SAMARRA reads very well; it is fast-paced and involves you with the various characters, it contains humor, and excellently drawn characters.<br />Julian English, the main protagonist, inherits a place at the top of his society in Gibbsville, Pennsylvania---a pseudonym for Pottstown, where O'Hara grew up.  He has married the most desirable girl of his set.  What makes him throw a drink in the face of a gentleman who annoys or bores him ?  Whatever it is, that starts a most precipitous decline, which only a few days later, leads to a (by then) non-surprise ending.  Fate has written it thus, and Julian cannot escape.  He doesn't struggle much, that's for sure.  Much of the book explores the previous lives of several characters: wife, friends, a small-time gangster.  Pottstown life comes across as narrowly provincial, sexually active, fairly alcoholic, at least in its upper reaches, and divided into rigid categories.  It has been said before about O'Hara that he creates excellent atmosphere, builds up an intricate plot, and then crashes at the end.  This novel is no exception; it just trickles across the finish line.<br />O'Hara's America is one in which Anglo-Saxons still rule, but live under challenge from newer, perhaps more dynamic groups.  The rulers dislike all their challengers intensely.  Snobbism is writ large in O'Hara's work---though a Catholic of Irish descent, he obviously placed himself with the ruling class and he did come from a wealthy background.  He constantly emphasizes the importance of \\"being with the right people\\", consuming the right items, living on the right street, and \\"being at the right social events\\".  And it's no wonder that he reserves his nastiest cracks for Jews.  Never a mention without a sneer, a condescending witticism, or outright nastiness.  I often felt like throwing the book out the window.  I thanked my good luck that I outlived that narrowminded America and can look back on Mr. O'Hara and his heyday with considerable relief that America has changed, at least in this way, for the better.  Nothing can prove my point better than the experience of reading this outdated novel.ly emphasizes the importance of \\"being with the right people\\", consuming the right items, living on the right street, and \\"being at the right social events\\".   And it's no wonder that he reserves his nastiest cracks for Jews.  Never a mention without a sneer, a condescending witticism, or outright nastiness.  I often felt like throwing the book out the window.  I thanked my good luck that I outlived that narrowminded America and can look back on Mr. O'Hara and his heyday with considerable relief that America has changed, at least in this way, for the better.  Nothing can prove my point better than the experience of reading this outdated novel.	2004-06-11
US	52761040	RHUHPK8BSUGMO	040401903X	233842697	On the Eve a Novel	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Death Nixes Starry-Eyed Duos Amour	I've never read a novel with a Bulgarian hero before, so this was a first.  If you haven't read any Turgenev, you should.  You should, that is, if you like idealistic romances between young people who lack all the cynicism and worldliness of our times or even Balzac's France.  Turgenev's heroes and heroines shine in the dark, they're so good.  But the brilliantly-drawn, humorous characters surrounding the pure main protagoniste are created with such skill that 144 years after this novel first saw daylight, Turgenev could still get a few laughs out of me.<br />Idealistic, but drifting, Elena is being courted by both an overserious student (known in our times as a `geek') and a budding sculptor who devotes himself mainly to wine, women, and if not song, at least to unorganized messing around.  The geek doesn't \\"get it\\".  The sculptor easily sees through everyone, but is less talented in holding onto anything substantial that comes his way.  Elena's parents are weak, her relatives entirely unprepossessing.  Her father tries to marry her off to a rather sharp bureaucrat with polished manners.  Enter our Bulgarian champion, who only wants to liberate his homeland from the Turks.  Elena falls for him and the rest, while not history, is quite predictable.  No, this love story is not unique, nor is it extremely complicated.<br />ON THE EVE is a great novel because of Turgenev's style---that seemingly artless, light, flowing prose.  Turgenev is one of the eternal masters, no doubt.  The world will probably never see his like again.  A Turgenev novel resembles a Mozart piano concerto.  It looks so easy, sounds so simple, but it is total genius.  I recently re-read this novel and found it just as good the second time.  What a shame that only two others have reviewed it !	2004-06-11
US	52761040	R3LN3CL95LW86W	0140183124	464526750	Plain Tales from the Hills (Penguin Classics)	Books	2	12	33	N	N	Yesterdays Fad, Todays Flat Beer	I believe Kipling was wildly popular in his day.  This collection of stories about English life in India may have entranced the masses and sold a lot of newspapers in the first decade of the 20th century, but in the context of almost exactly a hundred years later, they have lost most of their shine.  While Kipling might have been the foremost raconteur of British India, compared to great short story writers like Chekhov, de Maupassant, or Twain, he comes across today as coy and contrived.  Certain phrases make their appearance in far too many of the tales, for example:  \\"Once there was a....but that's another story.\\"  Cute kids, the wisdom of animals, the wiles of the fair sex, the unfathomable nature of \\"natives\\", gruff officers, perfect ladies, the one-dimensional earthiness of the common soldier---these are stories filled with stereotypes.  Kipling's stories may hold your interest for a short time and you can wonder at the change in taste that has occurred between 1907, when he published these, and today.  In many tales, Kipling depicts the lifestyle among the higher echelons of the British Raj, but only through a veil of irony or humor.  A regular topic is the struggle for social status among the British; efforts to short circuit the pecking order and reversals suffered thereby.  People marrying \\"beneath them\\" or trying to marry \\"above them\\" are often found here.  Though people still refer to Kipling as \\"a writer about India\\", it is still true that he wrote about his compatriots, not about India.  The two or three tales with Indian characters who are anything other than servants lack any depth.  Even the pathos-filled \\"Story of Muhammad Din\\", which shows understanding, ultimately deals with illness as something inevitable in India---there are no questions as to why death comes to small children so frequently.  Overall, Kipling provides a certain local color to British literature of the late 19th and early 20th century, but cannot be regarded as a great British writer on the level of Maugham, Conrad, Lawrence, Forster or Greene because he lacks broader humanity, deep thought, and universal vision.riter on the level of Maugham, Conrad, Lawrence, Forster or Greene because he lacks broader humanity, deep thought, and universal vision.	2004-05-17
US	52761040	RML5B1G6QEUPE	0920862535	408068702	Ukrainian-Jewish Relations in Historical Perspective, Second Edition	Books	4	2	3	N	N	a long row to hoe	In October, 1983 a conference took place in Canada between professors of Jewish background and professors of Ukrainian background.  They came from Canada, Israel and the USA.  Several had been born in Ukraine, others were descended from emigrants.  The papers they presented form the substance of this book, which is a long read at 512 pages.  Though the subject may seem dry as dust to some, this conference was loaded with tension.  A dialogue among the professors at the end of the volume crackles with the emotions of oppression, mass murder, accusations and counter-accusations; with trying to come to terms with anger, prejudice, and misunderstanding.  An expanded dialogue might have made an extremely gripping work.  I guess one could say that relations between Ukrainians and Jews have not always been harmonious and even a group of well-educated professors could not avoid acrimony.<br />The biggest failing of U-JRHP in my view is the utter lack of any maps.  I don't consider myself an uninterested person, though my professional life has been elsewhere, but the volume of place names was far too much for me.  Lugging a (large) atlas around is impractical.  Otherwise, I found a large number of useful articles, from Pritsak's work on early Jewish connections to the Khazars, Lithuanians, and the Rus, to Gitelman's rather narrow (for unavoidable reasons) but still interesting article called \\"Contemporary Soviet Jewish Perceptions of Ukrainians. Readers may choose to read selectively, picking out the articles most relevant to their needs, but I found all articles well-prepared.  The editing could have been better as there are a large number of typos throughout the book.<br />The Jews and Ukrainians both suffered from oppression and prejudice over the centuries:  the Jews as a small group without land, tossed on the tender mercies of the Polish or Russian upper classes, forced to live by their wits and (as always with such groups around the world) tending to go into business, property-management, or money-lending; the Ukrainians as the mass of illiterate peasants who labored for feudal lords and then as impoverished villagers whose language and culture was perpetually ignored or suppressed.  As also usual, the rulers tended to keep things quiet by turning the Jews and Ukrainians against each other---a policy of divide and rule.  It worked.  Though at times Jews and Ukrainians supported each other's aspirations for greater freedom and escape from poverty, often they wound up at loggerheads.  Prejudice grew deep over the years, especially as the Ukrainians saw the Jews as (the most visible) exploiters and the Jews suffered the violence of Ukrainian pogroms.  It didn't have to be that way, as Baran's article about Transcarpathia shows.  At last, the Jewish community was murdered in the genocide of 1941-44.  Since then, emigration has greatly decreased the number of Jews living in Ukraine, to the point that today, some 16 years after the book was published, the whole issue is rapidly becoming a historical one.  No matter what your experience or knowledge, if you have an interest in this topic, I am sure you can learn a lot from this book.  Given human nature, I am afraid more books like this are on the cards: Serbian-Albanian relations, Arab-American relations, Armenian-Turkish relations, Hindu-Muslim relations, etc.  Professors will not be out of work soon.  Sigh.ess, property-management, or money-lending; the Ukrainians as the mass of illiterate peasants who labored for feudal lords and then as impoverished villagers whose language and culture was perpetually ignored or suppressed.  As also usual, the rulers tended to keep things quiet by turning the Jews and Ukrainians against each other---a policy of divide and rule.  It worked.  Though at times Jews and Ukrainians supported each other's aspirations for greater freedom and escape from poverty, often they wound up at loggerheads.  Prejudice grew deep over the years, especially as the Ukrainians saw the Jews as (the most visible) exploiters and the Jews suffered the violence of Ukrainian pogroms.  It didn't have to be that way, as Baran's article about Transcarpathia shows.  At last, the Jewish community was murdered in the genocide of 1941-44.  Since then, emigration has greatly decreased the number of Jews living in Ukraine, to the point that today, some 16 years after the book was published, the whole issue is rapidly becoming a historical one.  No matter what your experience or knowledge, if you have an interest in this topic, I am sure you can learn a lot from this book.  Given human nature, I am afraid more books like this are on the cards: Serbian-Albanian relations, Arab-American relations, Armenian-Turkish relations, Hindu-Muslim relations, etc.  Professors will not be out of work soon.  Sigh.	2004-04-28
US	52761040	R3NHR495M1FIU4	0553374400	691545795	The War of the Saints	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Syncretic Saint Seeks Solution to Sexual Snafus	I've enjoyed reading Jorge Amado's novels for most of my life.  I love to get back into that world of tough guys and sexy ladies who get involved in various good causes, helping the poor or saving the environment, but never fail to appreciate each other fully.  I admire Amado's interest in the Brazilian religions known as macumba or candomble, religions based on a mixture of African gods and Christian saints and practiced by millions of Brazilians, whether they possess African ancestors or not.  He always weaves a fast-moving, humorous, optimistic, colorful story.  How close Amado's world may be to the actual Brazil is something else again.  I mean, did \\"Miami Vice\\" resemble Miami in any substantial way ?<br />If you've enjoyed such great novels as \\"Gabriela, Clove and Cinnamon\\", \\"The Violent Land\\", \\"Tieta do Agreste\\", \\"Tent of Miracles\\", or \\"Dona Flor and Her Two Husbands\\"---and there are many others---then no doubt you are going to like THE WAR OF THE SAINTS too.  It's a slight plot, but Amado performs his usual magic and creates a engrossing story out of it.  The wooden statue of a saint disappears en route to a museum exhibition in Bahia.  Everyone thinks the statue has been stolen, but actually St. Barbara, the image in question, has suddenly come to life as an African goddess.  Her aim is to set aright the sexual lives of several individuals.  She does so and resumes her wooden form just in time to save the director of the museum from total ruin.  The histories of the various characters, the political and cultural setting of the times (1970s Bahia under the despotic rule of the generals), and lots of detail about Afro-Brazilian religion make up the bulk of the book, which covers a space of only three days.  Amado includes large numbers of actual people in his novel this time---how many, I couldn't determine, not being so familiar with the Brazilian cultural scene, but Caetano Veloso, Gilberto Gil, Gilberto Freyre, and many others do appear.  OK, political correctness a la North American feminism does take a hike, but if you can accept that sexual attraction plays a large role in our lives and not everyone lives by the same principles, then you can plunge into the joie de vivre, humor, and happiness that suffuse this novel, like so many others by Amado.  I could have called my review \\"Reading a Samba\\".  For sure it's tropicalismo, but you'll definitely like it.rrectness a la North American feminism does take a hike, but if you can accept that sexual attraction plays a large role in our lives and not everyone lives by the same principles, then you can plunge into the joie de vivre, humor, and happiness that suffuse this novel, like so many others by Amado.   I could have called my review \\"Reading a Samba\\".  For sure it's tropicalismo, but you'll definitely like it.	2004-04-18
US	52761040	RJLIRCXAXQ7CR	0374528667	853021791	Crescent and Star: Turkey Between Two Worlds	Books	4	5	5	N	N	a Turkish testament	I don't know Stephen Kinzer from a bar of soap, but I could bet he's a very likeable guy.  I used to read his articles in the New York Times with great pleasure, back in those years when he was covering Turkey and wrote many pieces on the new nations in the Caucasus and Central Asia too.  For the first time, in Kinzer's articles, the subscribers got more than just election or disaster news---we got coverage of all kinds of cultural, social, and economic trends in Turkey.  I always hoped Kinzer would write a book on the country.  He did and I bought it.  If I compare it to an academic tome like Caglar Keydar's \\"State and Class in Turkey\\", CRESCENT AND STAR reads as smooth as silk, even if the depth of the ideas is not so great.  It is a highly informative, journalistic look at modern Turkey, a country at a political, historical crossroads.  Turkey has managed to burst the economic straitjacket that bound it for decades; the Kurdish insurrection has been squelched, and relations with Greece improved beyond all belief.  There is a strong possibility that the country will join the European Union in the next decade.  Yet, a number of political problems remain.  Kinzer points out again and again that the conservative, but secular military elite dominates the civilian politicians, who often are not the sharpest knives in the drawer.  In turn, civil liberties have been denied because the behind-the-scenes military class feels that Turkey \\"is not ready\\" for full freedom.  The role of religion, i.e. Islam, in society has yet to be decided.  There are a few hotheaded fundamentalists, many who want a stronger role for Islam under democracy, and many more who don't want Islam to play any role at all.  Is it a good idea to push the whole issue into a corner ?<br />Kinzer liked Turkey.  You can feel that on every page in the book.  Liking the country, having friends there, he wanted to use his journalistic power to best advantage, to strike a blow for his friends, who like him, believe in freedom and democracy, and see a bright future for Turkey if it goes down that road.  I too, from a great distance, sympathize with this picture.  I like people who don't hide behind some abstract \\"objectivity\\".  But I am afraid his desire to help turned the book into something of a polemic.  As he discusses each of the main aspects of modern Turkish politics and society---Ataturk, the party politics, the military, the Kurds, Islam, censorship and repression, the great earthquake of 1999, and relations with Greece-we receive the same lecture a number of times.  Encourage dissent, he cries, embrace ethnic and religious diversity, own up to the Armenian massacres of 1915 or at least discuss them, give religious people a voice in society, let Parliament have the ultimate power instead of the soldiers, decentralize, don't lose Ataturk's desire for change and modernization, and above all, trust your own citizens to be mature enough to choose what they want in government.  If you don't mind this rather heavy-handed insistence on the same theme, then CRESCENT AND STAR is an excellent book for anyone wanting to know the main issues, trends, and political feelings in modern Turkey.  The sections Kinzer refers to as \\"snacks\\" or meze are all very interesting.  Another book on modern Turkish life and culture as seen by an American ?  Please.believe in freedom and democracy, and see a bright future for Turkey if it goes down that road.  I too, from a great distance, sympathize with this picture.   I like people who don't hide behind some abstract \\"objectivity\\".  But I am afraid his desire to help turned the book into something of a polemic.  As he discusses each of the main aspects of modern Turkish politics and society---Ataturk, the party politics, the military, the Kurds, Islam, censorship and repression, the great earthquake of 1999, and relations with Greece-we receive the same lecture a number of times.  Encourage dissent, he cries, embrace ethnic and religious diversity, own up to the Armenian massacres of 1915 or at least discuss them, give religious people a voice in society, let Parliament have the ultimate power instead of the soldiers, decentralize, don't lose Ataturk's desire for change and modernization, and above all, trust your own citizens to be mature enough to choose what they want in government.  If you don't mind this rather heavy-handed insistence on the same theme, then CRESCENT AND STAR is an excellent book for anyone wanting to know the main issues, trends, and political feelings in modern Turkey.  The sections Kinzer refers to as \\"snacks\\" or meze are all very interesting.  Another book on modern Turkish life and culture as seen by an American ?  Please.	2004-03-29
US	52761040	RAMHZUGMYO08N	0253332060	491043170	The Hundred Thousand Fools of God: Musical Travels in Central Asia (and Queens, New York)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Tunes and Tales from the Heart of Asia	Six years ago, I wrote my first review for Amazon, of Richard N. Frye's \\"Bukhara: The Medieval Achievement\\".  Frye's work, concentrating mostly on the 10th and 11th centuries, described in detail how Turkic-speaking nomads combined with Iranian city dwellers and Arab bringers of a new religion to create a new synthesis in Islam in Central Asia, particularly in the city of Bukhara.  That syncretic Islam later became most instrumental in the development of the Muslim faith in the Indian subcontinent.  Levin's THE HUNDRED THOUSAND FOOLS OF GOD mainly describes the condition of music and musicians in the 1990s in the modern republics of Uzbekistan and Tajikistan.  That same Richard N. Frye provides a strong endorsement on the back cover.  I too find that this volume is a worthy successor in the on-going \\"project\\" of bringing Central Asian history and culture before Western eyes.  The musical world of Central Asia still involves synthesis and syncretism---between the West and tradition, between new conservatism and older tolerance, between Soviet atheism and local spirituality, between Islam and older religions which we might label shamanistic, and between so-called ethnic groups like Uzbeks and Tajiks.<br />Levin travelled around the region with a musical companion, Otanazar Matyakubov, who provided endless contacts and insights.  Together they interviewed and listened to all the varied performers of Central Asian music, from a female pop singer to humble performers of classical styles, from healers in remote villages who used music in their rituals to performers at schmaltzy Jewish weddings in the transplanted Bukharan Jewish community in Queens, New York.  Levin describes the surroundings in which he found each musician, tells of his travels in decrepit cars between ancient cities or by donkey through the dramatic mountain scenery of remotest Tajikistan.  While a certain amount of detail may be of interest chiefly to fellow ethnomusicologists, those specialized observations are spaced throughout the text in such a way that the non-professional reader never feels overwhelmed.  Levin provides a number of excellent photographs, maps, and most importantly, a brilliant CD which illustrates all the styles and instruments he discusses.  The effect of 70 years of Soviet policies is often mentioned, and a reader can deduce the results of this assault on local culture, though I would have liked more direct comment.  Moscow's insistence on creating discrete \\"nationalities\\" created virulent brands of Uzbek and Tajik (and so many other) nationalism where none had existed.  It created separate, ethnic-based countries where none had ever existed.  It even created \\"Uzbek\\" and \\"Tajik\\" music out of a formerly seamless Central Asian tradition.  This Soviet policy ultimately resulted in the squeezing out of Bukharan Jews-prominent in the Central Asian musical world for centuries---because they were deemed insufficiently \\"Uzbek\\" by newly nationalistic authorities.<br />In short, this is one of the best books of ethnomusicology I have ever read.  It would be of interest to anyone trying to learn more about Central Asia and must be required reading for anthropologists concerned with the area.  THE HUNDRED THOUSAND FOOLS OF GOD also brings the region to life and underlines the difference between the materialistic, narrowly nationalistic present and the past in which musicians played out of devotion and love of God without trying to fit into some culture apparatchik's idea of \\"national music\\".rvations are spaced throughout the text in such a way that the non-professional reader never feels overwhelmed.  Levin provides a number of excellent photographs, maps, and most importantly, a brilliant CD which illustrates all the styles and instruments he discusses.  The effect of 70 years of Soviet policies is often mentioned, and a reader can deduce the results of this assault on local culture, though I would have liked more direct comment.  Moscow's insistence on creating discrete \\"nationalities\\" created virulent brands of Uzbek and Tajik (and so many other) nationalism where none had existed.  It created separate, ethnic-based countries where none had ever existed.  It even created \\"Uzbek\\" and \\"Tajik\\" music out of a formerly seamless Central Asian tradition.  This Soviet policy ultimately resulted in the squeezing out of Bukharan Jews-prominent in the Central Asian musical world for centuries---because they were deemed insufficiently \\"Uzbek\\" by newly nationalistic authorities.  <br />In short, this is one of the best books of ethnomusicology I have ever read.  It would be of interest to anyone trying to learn more about Central Asia and must be required reading for anthropologists concerned with the area.  THE HUNDRED THOUSAND FOOLS OF GOD also brings the region to life and underlines the difference between the materialistic, narrowly nationalistic present and the past in which musicians played out of devotion and love of God without trying to fit into some culture apparatchik's idea of \\"national music\\".	2004-03-25
US	52761040	R31189C36OP3	0860918777	679007425	State and Class in Turkey: A Study in Capitalist Development	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Scotch in a Cement Cup	This book should be required reading for every student of Turkish history:  it is intelligent, well-researched, and contains many original ideas.  However, putting it on your course list may cause a reduction in enrollment owing to a few suicides.  I feel I have a fair bit of patience for reading important information presented in not-so elegant styles, but this one drove me to the wall.  A leftish history of Turkey written from the point of view of classes: independent farmers, tax farmers, bureaucrats and administrators, and the (often non-Muslim before WW I) bourgeoisie fills a large gap in my picture of economic history.  It discusses how the Ottoman Empire rose, survived many centuries, collapsed, and turned into the modern nation of Turkey.  Such factors as labor migration, wage levels, bureaucrat-bourgeois rivalry, history of agrarian structure, and ideological tendencies among newly urbanized peasants all feature here.  These are fascinating topics which in the hands of other authors, (who unfortunately for me did not write about Turkey) can make excellent reading.  The rise of statism in Ataturk's time slowly turned into a period of import substitution capitalism, popular party rivalries, and then incorporation into the wider capitalist world under US hegemony.  Whether or not Turkey will follow the formerly undemocratic and formerly poor countries of southern Europe (Portugal, Spain, Italy, Greece) into democratic, prosperous Europe remains to be seen.  This and many other views, many other useful observations, are presented in this volume, but you will need the patience of Job to wade through it.  Three stars because the information will remain beyond reach for most people.	2004-03-24
US	52761040	R3HVQAOMJ4FB4B	0520082613	716216830	"Peaks of Yemen I Summon": Poetry as Cultural Practice in a North Yemeni Tribe	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Poetry Made Me	The number of books written on Napoleon or the American Civil War exceeds the imagination.  Diets, dogs, and data processing are often found on the shelves too.  But then there are topics nobody ever thinks of taking up until one brave soul decides to give it a try.  Over time, anthropology has moved closer to literature, using literary analysis and discourse.  Steven Caton has combined research and thought on disparate, sometimes esoteric topics into a complex and fascinating book on the place of poetry in tribal Yemeni culture.  I would be lying if I said it were easy to read.  I imagine that the number of people who NEED to read or who WANT to read Caton's book is exceedingly small.  Yemen is not even central to the thoughts of most anthropologists in the world.  Thus, not only do you need to care about Yemen, but you should also have some expertise in poetry, in aesthetics, in ideas about social construction of self, and in such intellectual exercises as cultural theory and the poetic process.  Though I am an anthropologist with an amateur interest in Yemen, I still came to this book lacking most of these things.  I found it mighty rough going.  Some academics and a few graduate students are probably the majority of Caton's readership.  Too bad.<br />PEAKS OF YEMEN I SUMMON is an extraordinarily interesting work.  It's not simply an ethnography of poetry in Yemeni society, though it could be called that; it's an attempt to tackle larger issues about ways of becoming a Yemeni man, about poetry and identity, about poetry and cultural change.  Yemeni tribespeople, at least 20 years ago, used poetry as a vital weapon in life's battles---for honor, prestige, and persuasion.  At weddings, they used a form called balah to fight word battles, both humorous and real, over issues of prestige, and used the same poems to indicate proper Islamic and Yemeni tribal values to the young man being married. (women live in another sphere of poetry, not accessible to male researchers)  Music accompanied balah, the verses were always impromptu and orality supreme, i.e. the poems were never, ever written down.  Zamil, a second type of poem, was also chanted on politically-charged occasions, typically when two quarreling groups tried to iron things out.  Qasidah, a third kind of poetry, was produced by individual poets alone and could be listened to on tape (in the 1980s), much more like poetry in our own society, but it also often concerned itself with politics.  Poets lived precarious lives in a politically unstable society.  The central government in San'a strives for control, the tribes struggle to maintain autonomy.  Caton spends a lot of time explaining how poetry is intrinsic to political maneuvering and power politics in Yemeni society.  \\"The composition of poetry\\", he says, \\"is embedded in an extremely important political process---the dispute mediation---in which power, such as it exists in this system, must be achieved through persuasion.\\"  Caton states that he wishes to demonstrate poetry's centrality to the entire sociopolitical and cultural system.  He wants to show how poetry in Yemen connects intimately to cultural belief and social practice, unlike in the West.  I believe he succeeds brilliantly.  You need patience to wade through the detail and the intricate loops of reasoning.  If you persevere you will be rewarded with a lot of interesting insights and thought-provoking views.  It's a high risk/high gain book.  I wonder if anyone in Washington has even heard of it ?  \\"Arbitration of disputes among Arabs\\" and \\"values in Islamic societies\\" are hardly useless topics these days !chers)  Music accompanied balah, the verses were always impromptu and orality supreme, i.e. the poems were never, ever written down.  Zamil, a second type of poem, was also chanted on politically-charged occasions, typically when two quarreling groups tried to iron things out.  Qasidah, a third kind of poetry, was produced by individual poets alone and could be listened to on tape (in the 1980s), much more like poetry in our own society, but it also often concerned itself with politics.  Poets lived precarious lives in a politically unstable society.  The central government in San'a strives for control, the tribes struggle to maintain autonomy.  Caton spends a lot of time explaining how poetry is intrinsic to political maneuvering and power politics in Yemeni society.  \\"The composition of poetry\\", he says, \\"is embedded in an extremely important political process---the dispute mediation---in which power, such as it exists in this system, must be achieved through persuasion.\\"  Caton states that he wishes to demonstrate poetry's centrality to the entire sociopolitical and cultural system.  He wants to show how poetry in Yemen connects intimately to cultural belief and social practice, unlike in the West.  I believe he succeeds brilliantly.  You need patience to wade through the detail and the intricate loops of reasoning.  If you persevere you will be rewarded with a lot of interesting insights and thought-provoking views.  It's a high risk/high gain book.  I wonder if anyone in Washington has even heard of it ?  \\"Arbitration of disputes among Arabs\\" and \\"values in Islamic societies\\" are hardly useless topics these days !	2004-03-06
US	52761040	R3L8AHZVYM0HX5	0436200244	166143220	The Journey	Books	2	2	2	N	Y	Pi in the Sky	It seems to me that everyone, from Hemingway to earnest writing instructors at state colleges, tells you that you should write about what you know.  Given America's fascination with the drama of immigration---not so hard to explain seeing that most of us are descended from immigrants, willing or unwilling-a budding Indian-American author could have used her genuine experience as background for whatever she wanted to say.  Instead she set her rather murky tale in a fictional country called Pi that (perhaps) many readers will confuse with India.  Like the writings of authors who really hail from India, Ganesan's novel centers around a family.  India is not a land where individual will and action loom large.  That is true.  But Ganesan does not know India; this keeps coming home to the reader dozens of times.  Monkeys, flowers, heat, dust, and strange roots and herbs do not make India.  India, above all, is in the behavior, language and attitudes of its people.  Here the Indian characters are too American, or at least, they are not believably Indian.  India itself, or &quot;Pi&quot; is too American--everything is too available, too free, too individually separate.  The Krishnan sisters, arriving in Pi from Long Island at the beginning of the novel are solid characters, well-defined.  However the others, local Pi-ites or expatriates are not.  They remain rather like stick figures.  In addition, there are a number of factual faux-pas.  I found it rather annoying since it seemed to me that Ganesan has got talent; the philosophical side of the novel, if I may call it that, had potential, but the author does not join it well to the awkward \\"Pi\\" cultural atmosphere, which seems to be a jumble of anything the author wanted it to be at any moment.  \\"A girl's search for self in two very different cultures\\", a phrase intoned on the back cover, is thus totally off the mark.  The second culture is missing.  This is a purely American book and unfortunately, not a very successful one.  I would hope that the author does better next time around.ne.  I would hope that the author does better next time around.	2004-02-14
US	52761040	RGKD4YCMI91JK	0679733442	402449519	Landscape Painted with Tea	Books	4	23	27	N	N	Knees Need To Read, Thumbs Only Twiddle	As exceptional Serbian author, Milorad Pavic always says, \\"The future always starts from the large intestine.\\"  This may be taken as either prophecy or advice.  In either case, you should begin the rest of your future by getting ahold of this novel.  Of course, as he says, \\"Whoever wants the second half of life has to remain in the first half of everything else.\\"  Let's hope this does not mean your large intestine.  But if we concentrate on Pavic' story, rather than on his aphorisms, I think we can quickly conclude the dude is a genius, though one who is not easily understood.  What can we say about a heroine who falls in love with you, the reader ?  The protagonist with several pasts has several futures too.  He is a Yugoslav architect whose designs are never built, but in one future he builds exact replicas of Tito's luxury palaces in the New World.  His father was a Yugoslav soldier who disappeared in Greece, or else he was a Russian mathematician who could shovel snow extremely well.  The hero winds up extremely rich, but lonely.  Or maybe lonely, but extremely rich.  Does it have to do with those people who like to work in sync with others or those who prefer to be lone wolves ?  Pasts intersect and divide, the future is over though it hasn't started either.  Yes, you will dig the leaping non-sequiturs that lead to larger truths or else you will be left scratching your head.  Hey, if you always admired Bob Dylan's great songs like \\"Subterranean Homesick Blues\\" or if you found Dali's paintings intriguing, you are going to grok this novel in all its fullness.  If however, you want a linear, conventional book, forget this one completely.<br />\\"All readers of this book are entirely imaginary.  Any resemblance to actual readers is coincidental.\\"  M. Pavic  So be warned.<br />When I was very little, I had a small purple stone which I swallowed.  I never let on to anyone.  I felt purple inside.  So when I saw a purple stripe on the cover of this book in the library, I knew I would either read it or eat it.  Now I can't remember what happened, but as a character exclaims in LANDSCAPE PAINTED WITH TEA, \\"In sleep, one doesn't age.\\"  The same is true with volumes in your stomach.  Or was that `brain' ?  You can read this book like a crossword puzzle---literally.  The author took great pains in its construction, which recalls (Argentine author) Julio Cortazar in some bizarre way.  I read the novel in the conventional fashion (or I ate it with a knife and fork) not because I have a stolid or military personality, as Pavic would claim, but because I admire turtles, who always take the shortest route to the pond.  The Tajiks say that eels never swim towards the sun.  The readers of this book will not wind up enlightened either, but they will be delighted by the author's wit and imagination.  Or they will get a stomach ache.ry, I knew I would either read it or eat it.  Now I can't remember what happened, but as a character exclaims in LANDSCAPE PAINTED WITH TEA, \\"In sleep, one doesn't age.\\"  The same is true with volumes in your stomach.  Or was that `brain' ?  You can read this book like a crossword puzzle---literally.  The author took great pains in its construction, which recalls (Argentine author) Julio Cortazar in some bizarre way.  I read the novel in the conventional fashion (or I ate it with a knife and fork) not because I have a stolid or military personality, as Pavic would claim, but because I admire turtles, who always take the shortest route to the pond.  The Tajiks say that eels never swim towards the sun.  The readers of this book will not wind up enlightened either, but they will be delighted by the author's wit and imagination.  Or they will get a stomach ache.	2004-02-11
US	52761040	R1655GHILULBQZ	0449911659	437546793	Rabbit, Run	Books	4	5	8	N	N	sad suburban story of sin and indecision	For people back in 1960, when the American Dream was alive and well and everyone believed in unlimited progress and The Future, young John Updike's novel must have come on like a bombshell.  Yet, for those of us who lived through the Sixties and continue to watch the ebbing away of those primary values that once underlaid our country, reading RABBIT, RUN today is small potatoes.  Similarly, the sexual `explicitness' that had everyone talking back at the time of publication, would hardly raise an eyebrow today.  Various sexual acts that have become part of US national lore, for better or for worse, were still not given a name in this novel.  Rabbit Angstrom, a former highschool basketball star, is stuck in a boring, tawdry marriage and a dead-end job.  His lower middle-class parents expect him to follow in their footsteps; his in-laws look down on him as a no-hoper.  A few years later, the answer would have been obvious---tune in, turn on, and drop out !  But in those more serious times, a mere five years before the tidal wave of change began, Rabbit's flight can draw no social or political sympathy.  There is no Haight-Ashbury in view.  He drives into the night, only to return sheepishly.  He soon takes up with Ruth,  a \\"loose woman\\", who, again five years later, could have been seen as a \\"hip chick doing her own thing\\".  Everyone condemns him, the woman condemns herself.  She gets pregnant, but does not tell Rabbit, even when he runs from her to rejoin his wife in the hospital as she gives birth to his second child.  Family grudgingly accept him back, but things have not really improved.  A do-good minister with a bored, flirtatious wife tries to help Rabbit resolve his inner conflicts, but is too weak to accomplish much.  A final tragedy occurs.  Rabbit runs off to Ruth yet again.  The ending is a little predictable.<br />In my opinion, Updike hovers always on the edge of greatness.  He is forever caught between the desire to write supremely well and to be popular.  I love how he catches the feel of a small American town or city in the late `50s, the mores and expectations of the people, their goods and habits.  But as a young man, perhaps, Updike loved his own skill rather too much, he loved to sit back and watch himself create these verbose passages, these descriptions of old ladies on porch gliders, of upper class gardens, or of Pennsylvania country gas stations.  He revelled in those descriptions that somehow ring a mite \\"over-literary\\".  His reach for the perfect word sometimes extends too far.  I feel, as an older man, that Updike before 30 could see beauty only in very young women, perhaps thanks to Hollywood and the printed media.  Each description of an older woman is tinged with disgust, discoloration, and deterioration.  That said, Rabbit Angstrom is an unforgettable character.  Updike's choice of name is very clever.  If you sympathize with him at first, his utterly brainless selfishness and weak indecision, his lack of any backbone whatsoever, tend to make you despair.  He is a real antidote to the American dream, to the \\"log cabin to White House story\\" that we love to love.  At times, this novel annoyed me with its wordiness, but it grips you like a crazy ride on a downward spiral.  There is a bit of Rabbit in everyone, but most people face the music, most people form some idea of where to go next.ar.  I love how he catches the feel of a small American town or city in the late `50s, the mores and expectations of the people, their goods and habits.  But as a young man, perhaps, Updike loved his own skill rather too much, he loved to sit back and watch himself create these verbose passages, these descriptions of old ladies on porch gliders, of upper class gardens, or of Pennsylvania country gas stations.  He revelled in those descriptions that somehow ring a mite \\"over-literary\\".  His reach for the perfect word sometimes extends too far.  I feel, as an older man, that Updike before 30 could see beauty only in very young women, perhaps thanks to Hollywood and the printed media.  Each description of an older woman is tinged with disgust, discoloration, and deterioration.  That said, Rabbit Angstrom is an unforgettable character.  Updike's choice of name is very clever.  If you sympathize with him at first, his utterly brainless selfishness and weak indecision, his lack of any backbone whatsoever, tend to make you despair.  He is a real antidote to the American dream, to the \\"log cabin to White House story\\" that we love to love.  At times, this novel annoyed me with its wordiness, but it grips you like a crazy ride on a downward spiral.  There is a bit of Rabbit in everyone, but most people face the music, most people form some idea of where to go next.	2004-02-01
US	52761040	R2707Z6RANF0T6	0375757546	635168116	The Southern Gates of Arabia: A Journey in the Hadhramaut (Modern Library Paperbacks)	Books	4	12	14	N	N	existentialist trek through Hadhramaut	Trekking over the desolate, rocky plateau that lies between the coast and the interior valleys of Hadhramaut, Freya Stark travelled in 1935 with a group of Bedu and a government slave-soldier.  The area has been known as Aden Protectorate,  the Qu'aiti State of Shihr and Makalla, South Arabia, the People's Democratic Republic of South Yemen, and is now part of united Yemen.  She visited several of the interior towns, almost never seen by Europeans at that time (though the RAF did maintain a presence), and has written beautiful descriptions of the unusual physical environment as well as a kind and sympathetic treatment of the people she met.  She talked in Arabic with the ladies of the harim as well as with the rulers, scholars, and ordinary men of the communities.  Stark aimed to travel to Shabwa, a long-lost ancient city much further in the interior of the Arabian peninsula, to an area then contested between Yemen and Saudi Arabia.  Illness prevented her from doing so.  This book then, is an account of her curtailed trip.  She was evacuated by airplane from the interior, lucky to be alive.  I always like travellers who respect the people they visit and who do not condescend.  Freya Stark is certainly among them.  For a travel book that describes a time long gone and a place still far from the beaten track-do you know many people who have been to Shibam, Makalla, Tarim, or al Qatn ?---you cannot do much better.  You might use it as a guide as to how you could get along with people of a very different culture to your own---step number one, don't try to force them to adhere to your value system.<br /><br />However, one thing about this book puzzled me.  Compared to most travel literature, it is a most existentialist piece. &quot;Here I am, travelling through remote Hadhramaut.&quot;  That's cool, but we never find out why she was travelling to Shabwa-well, OK, it is old, it is a kind of `forbidden city', and it might hold ruins of interest---but why her ?  Who was she ?  What was her purpose ?  What were her qualifications ?  I realize full well that we can read her biography, we can look her up in the encyclopedia or on Google, that she wrote many other books.  But, I had never read anything else by her, knew nothing of her life.  I wondered who she was.  The book offers absolutely no clue.  Why did the rulers all welcome her ?  How did she have such good connections with the powers that be in Aden ?  I put this existentialist atmosphere down to a kind of British reticence, a reluctance to reveal much about oneself, not the proper form, etc.  That is all well and good, each to her own culture, but it does cast a cloud of vagueness over the whole book.  Compared to Wilfred Thesiger in his \\"Arabian Sands\\", Stark tells little of her aims or background, but is more willing to accept the Arabs as they were, not as she wished they would be.she ?  What was her purpose ?  What were her qualifications ?  I realize full well that we can read her biography, we can look her up in the encyclopedia or on Google, that she wrote many other books.  But, I had never read anything else by her, knew nothing of her life.  I wondered who she was.  The book offers absolutely no clue.  Why did the rulers all welcome her ?  How did she have such good connections with the powers that be in Aden ?  I put this existentialist atmosphere down to a kind of British reticence, a reluctance to reveal much about oneself, not the proper form, etc.  That is all well and good, each to her own culture, but it does cast a cloud of vagueness over the whole book.  Compared to Wilfred Thesiger in his \\"Arabian Sands\\", Stark tells little of her aims or background, but is more willing to accept the Arabs as they were, not as she wished they would be.	2004-01-27
US	52761040	R35YB8UMFKG9R2	0809030454	773104820	Black Star Over Japan: Rising Forces of Militarism	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Land of the rising gun ?	It makes you feel so smart to read books that ask questions that you can answer.  This happens most often when you pick up books like this one, over 30 years old, a volume that raises rather shrill warnings about increased militarism in Japan and its connections to business, politics, and the gangster world.  With hindsight, you can smile very authoritatively and say, \\"Oh, well, he was way off the mark there !\\"  Not so easy to do with such journalistic quickies that are still being turned out today, yet be sure that a lot of them will not turn out to be any more prophetic than Axelbank's BLACK STAR OVER JAPAN, written (in a hurry) in 1971.  While Japanese expenditure on the Self-Defense Forces did rise precipitously back then, Japan has not developed nuclear weapons, it has not become a menacing power, it recognized and invested heavily in China, it definitely has not tried to invade Taiwan ( !) and it is only just now, under great pressure from Uncle Sam, deploying the first few Japanese soldiers overseas.  Of course, the Soviet Union and communism have long ceased to be the threat they once were.  China still figures to be Japan's chief rival---North Korea at the moment being the main threat if any.  Nobody could fault Axelbank for not foreseeing the end of the Cold War.  But, he seems to have combed Japan for facts and figures that would prove the rightist danger, overlooking Japan's deep conservatism and tendency towards conformity, consensus and precedent.  He mentions but casts aside this extremely important aspect of Japanese culture, giving more weight to extremism and leadership of a generation that died out by the mid-80s.  He spends several chapters telling about Japan's Communists, about radical students (remember the Zengakuren ?), about relations with Russia, China, and Taiwan, and in general blowing up the threat of rightist militarism far more than was necessary.  The Japanese right wing was resurgent then, but breathless warnings turn out to have been overwrought.  In short, this is a journalistic book dashed off in a hurry.  It shows.  Nobody needs to read this book in 2004 unless they are interested in what alarmists were thinking about Japan back in the early `70s.en overwrought.  In short, this is a journalistic book dashed off in a hurry.  It shows.  Nobody needs to read this book in 2004 unless they are interested in what alarmists were thinking about Japan back in the early `70s.	2004-01-13
US	52761040	R137TOGH7IMN1Z	0060931949	418557027	House Made of Dawn (Perennial Classics)	Books	3	25	29	N	N	poetry and loss do not make a novel	I'd read and admired Momaday's short stories before I started reading HOUSE MADE OF DAWN.  I recognized him as a major American writer and certainly one of the most acclaimed Native American voices in literature.  Furthermore, as a person always interested and concerned with cross-cultural understandings, I wanted to appreciate this work as a powerful contribution to what a Native American author wishes to say about life.  I must say I was surprised and disappointed by the novel.  On the one hand, Momaday's eye and descriptive ability of moments, of natural beauty, and of the shifting sweep of weather could impress anybody.  The colors, sounds, and tiny details are true American haiku, not often found in the novels of others.  I would say HOUSE MADE OF DAWN was an epic poem unfortunately poured into the mold of a novel.  The second strong feeling one gets from Momaday's first major work is of quiet loss---what the Native Americans once had and how, through the violence he scarcely mentions, it was all taken away.  Abel, the protagonist, grows up in beauty in the Southwest, walks in beauty, but goes to World War II, has largely unspecified bad experiences, comes back twisted, but confident, couples briefly with a rich white woman, murders a white man, goes to jail, and emerges broken to try to survive amongst urban Indians in Los Angeles.  Drink and anger consume him.  Will there be any healing ?  Momaday offers the frail hope of the old ways at the same time as he realizes the difficulty of holding on to them in the modern world.  As a novel illustrating the difficulty of changing worlds, this one certainly has moments of brilliance, but there are caveats.<br />HOUSE MADE OF DAWN is a novel made of fragments.  Each fragment contains beauty, contains understated truths, but the whole does not add up to a novel as I understand novels.  I derived a feeling.  I empathized with the characters as survivors in a time that was not theirs.  But the `silent spaces' within the novel grew too great.  I thirsted for a little explanation.  I wondered what went on in Abel's mind, because I found only his memories of better times.  I could not connect several of the events, some of the characters.  They may be finely drawn portraits, but they walk alone, unconnected to each other.  That is why I found this novel difficult, why I think that it could have gone directly to my heart if it were poetry.  Comparisons to Faulkner are misplaced, I think, though HOUSE MADE OF DAWN does have that elliptical style.  The great Southern author always concludes his story: you come to very powerful ends.  Momaday's story is inconclusive.  As far as beauty goes, perhaps Momaday's world is more beautiful, but it is less populated by well-rounded characters.he novel grew too great.  I thirsted for a little explanation.  I wondered what went on in Abel's mind, because I found only his memories of better times.  I could not connect several of the events, some of the characters.  They may be finely drawn portraits, but they walk alone, unconnected to each other.  That is why I found this novel difficult, why I think that it could have gone directly to my heart if it were poetry.  Comparisons to Faulkner are misplaced, I think, though HOUSE MADE OF DAWN does have that elliptical style.  The great Southern author always concludes his story: you come to very powerful ends.  Momaday's story is inconclusive.  As far as beauty goes, perhaps Momaday's world is more beautiful, but it is less populated by well-rounded characters.	2004-01-11
US	52761040	R17W95D6OT0JLA	0930523180	448876461	Funny Dirty Little War	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	Argentina cries for itself	Back in 1913, my Uncle Sid worked on a ship that went down to Buenos Aires from Boston, Mass.  The way he told it, he almost decided to stay there forever, it was such a grand, rich city with opportunities for anyone.  Every man ate steak every day.  Argentina then was one of the most prosperous countries in the world, perhaps number six on the \\"rich country index\\".  By the time Soriano published this book (first in Spain because the Argentine generals would never have let it appear), Argentina had slipped a long way---down to around number eighty.  How could this happen ?  How could a country so mess up its chances ?  Who or what was responsible for the inflation, the civil wars, the rising poverty, the decline in services, education, health;  the corrupt, inefficient government ?  Of course there is not just one, simple answer.  You could write an academic treatise about it, and many people have.  Or, you could try to say it all in another way, which is what Soriano has done in this amazing book.<br />A FUNNY DIRTY LITTLE WAR reminds me incredibly of Nathaniel West, though the subject is different.  No magical realism for Soriano.  This is all action, everything is expressed through a tightly-controlled, gripping series of events.  I doubt you can put this 108 page book down until you finish it.  The Peronist police (supporters of the longtime dictator, Juan Peron) in a small country town need to find and arrest some \\"infiltrators\\" to show the capital that they are on the job.  They nominate a couple individuals, but these so-called traitors refuse to go quietly.  What's more, they consider themselves Peronists too.  A battle starts between the two sides.  One group resembles fascists, the other, perhaps communists.  Executions, torture, shootings, explosions, fires, and deaths continue right up to the end.  The village is largely destroyed on a single night and, most symbolically, is covered in pig manure dropped by a `leftist' hero in a cropduster.  Argentina in a nutshell.  Nobody seems to realize that their killings and destruction achieve nothing.  Peron is still in power, laughing behind his sunglasses, while all those who could rid the country of him fight each other.  As day dawns, the surviving \\"heroes\\" dedicate the beautiful new day to.......Peron !  A most powerful political satire which explains Argentina's predicament better than any serious work I've ever seen.  Wall-to-wall action brings you inevitably to a feeling of sadness at the human condition.  [Abe said \\"Where you want this killin' done ?\\" and God said, \\"Out on Highway 61\\".]  Brilliant, simply brilliant.n a nutshell.  Nobody seems to realize that their killings and destruction achieve nothing.  Peron is still in power, laughing behind his sunglasses, while all those who could rid the country of him fight each other.  As day dawns, the surviving \\"heroes\\" dedicate the beautiful new day to.......Peron !    A most powerful political satire which explains Argentina's predicament better than any serious work I've ever seen.  Wall-to-wall action brings you inevitably to a feeling of sadness at the human condition.  [Abe said \\"Where you want this killin' done ?\\" and God said, \\"Out on Highway 61\\".]   Brilliant, simply brilliant.	2003-12-17
US	52761040	R3DCQAIAXER2R3	0520076117	237367122	Goa, and the Blue Mountains; Or, Six Months of Sick Leave	Books	3	8	17	N	N	If India were a pizza.......	Richard Burton, the famous, 19th century British traveller, started his career in India, but is mainly known for his works on Arabia and Africa.  One of his earliest works, this book covers a period when he went on sick leave from his post in Sindh (now part of Pakistan) to the Nilgiri Hills in southern India.  True to later form, Burton did not travel there by the usual route, but took a small coastal sailing ship down to Goa, stopped there for a look, then continued down to Malabar (part of India's Kerala state today), from where he travelled overland to Ootacamund, a \\"hill station\\" in the present state of Tamilnadu.  The University of California Press reproduced his book with all its original spellings of Indian words, its early 19th century jokes and puns, and English words long since gone out of fashion.  No doubt India fascinated Burton's inquiring mind and he looked into many subjects not ordinarily found in the genre of Indian travel writing produced between 1830 and 1930 by a myriad Englishmen and some English women as well.  As someone who knows a bit about India, and particularly Goa, I would say he was not all that accurate.  He did notice that Goan Christians remained Indian in most ways and that they were divided by caste like the Hindus, from whom they had been converted.  However, his picture of the caste structure in Goa is not accurate, nor were his observations of Goan life anything more than those of a tourist.  When Burton arrives in Malabar, he switches tone for some reason and supplies the reader with vast amounts of information culled from various reports or books, leaving almost no personal impressions.  He reverts to his own observations as he climbs up towards Ootacamund.<br />I like travel books very much and long looked forward to reading this one.  I was disappointed.  It reminded me of a scene I once saw on an Australian TV comedy show.  A chef pulls out a perfect pizza from an oven.  You can see the cheese, the salami, the mushrooms, the beautiful crust.  Mmm.  The chef says, \\"And here's our pizza\\"--- and suddenly sneezing hugely right into it----\\"with a special mozzarella sauce !\\"  Burton wrote what could have been a very interesting book, never mind accuracy.  But his sneering, racist attitudes of contempt for everyone and everything, his total willingness to enforce his will on Indians with kicks and punches, his constant professions of boredom, and his scorn for each person he meets, even his own countrymen, cover the travel with a disgusting sauce, even though he may have been typical of his times.  (and one should not condemn, blah, blah, blah)  I must conclude that this book is not for everyone, only for the truly determined or for those who wish to research the author.  For that latter purpose, the book is no doubt revealing.the beautiful crust.  Mmm.  The chef says, \\"And here's our pizza\\"--- and suddenly sneezing hugely right into it----\\"with a special mozzarella sauce !\\"  Burton wrote what could have been a very interesting book, never mind accuracy.  But his sneering, racist attitudes of contempt for everyone and everything, his total willingness to enforce his will on Indians with kicks and punches, his constant professions of boredom, and his scorn for each person he meets, even his own countrymen, cover the travel with a disgusting sauce, even though he may have been typical of his times.  (and one should not condemn, blah, blah, blah)  I must conclude that this book is not for everyone, only for the truly determined or for those who wish to research the author.  For that latter purpose, the book is no doubt revealing.	2003-12-17
US	52761040	R2RPJYYRT43FG	0140440283	901837755	Electra and Other Plays (Classics)	Books	5	21	24	N	N	Greeks with issues	In the USA there's a social category of people known as \\"airheads\\" for whom anything that happened before the year 2000 is \\"like, major antiquity, guy\\".  What can we say, then, about plays that were written over 2,400 years ago ?  For most of my life, the mention of Greek plays was on a par with cod liver oil.  Probably good for me, but best avoided if possible.  I admit, it was the airhead-lite approach.  Recently, I finally buckled down and decided it was now or never.  I'm not sorry I did.<br />The four plays by Sophocles in this collection deal with Iliad spinoffs---events connected to that ancient epic with some of the Trojan War characters already known to the Greeks of the author's time---with legends of the gods (Hercules or Heracles, as they write it) or with both at once.  Each play uses a chorus to reflect inner thinking or thinking by \\"other people\\", whoever they may be.  The translation in this volume brings a modicum of modern English to the plays, rendering them very understandable.  Purists might not appreciate that, but I, for one, found myself better able to follow the deeper meanings of the plays because I didn't have to wade through archaic English.  (Remember how we struggled through Shakespeare?)  AJAX, ELECTRA, WOMEN OF TRACHIS, and PHILOCTETES jolted me out of my neo-airhead tendencies and amazed me by their modernity.  Their form may be ancient, stilted to modern eyes, and lacking much action, but the themes reveal human nature as if these plays all were written yesterday.  The same dilemmas pose themselves, the same contrasts in human character---the straight and the crooked, the mean and the noble, the forgiving and the vengeful.  Actions well meant turn out to have disastrous consequences.  Greed and jealousy run rampant.  AJAX, the earliest work here, is a little less dramatic than the other three, but does deal with &quot;temporary insanity&quot;.  I don't have the silver tongue and deconstruction abilities of a literary expert, but if these plays don't knock your socks off---just because of their relevance to 2003 if for no other reason---then I don't know what will.  Don't wait 40 years.  Delicious cod liver oil, no lie.these plays don't knock your socks off---just because of their relevance to 2003 if for no other reason---then I don't know what will.  Don't wait 40 years.  Delicious cod liver oil, no lie.	2003-12-09
US	52761040	R2EJR8A2Z6WWRE	0345368754	276635923	Foucault's Pendulum	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Arcane wiseguys cook up plot, get squashed	Three men in Milan, working in a small publishing house that produces works on the occult, the esoteric, and the downright bizarre, decide to recast world history in terms of a Plan.  Why they do this is part of Eco's most unusual novel. FOUCAULT'S PENDULUM is not an action novel, though there are some gripping action passages; you do not find sex to any degree, nor is there much development of characters' psychology in the usual sense of that phrase.  This is an enormous compendium, a vast vat of olive oil in which you may dip the bread of your curiosity.  It is a semiotics text masquerading as a novel.  Swirls of madness, esoterica, the weird, and the twisted logic of paranoid history fill the pages with a tongue-in-cheek talent that very few authors could manage.  On page 386, the narrator-one of the three planners---says, \\"I believe that you can reach the point where there is no longer any difference between developing the habit of pretending to believe and developing the habit of believing.\\"  Eco's parody of occult writing borders on this itself. The three cross this boundary and realize their picture is true even though it was meant to be a parody. Did their efforts create the reality or was that reality extant all the time ?  We witness the concoction of an insane explanation of European Man's activities over the last thousand years or more, an attempt to deny common sense and objectivity in favor of mysteries, plots, counter-plots, and secret cabals.  The secret document which sends them off in these paroxysms of paranoid plotting could be one handed down from the mysterious Knights Templar of Crusader times.  Or else, it could be a 14th century merchant's delivery list---hay, cloth, roses.<br />There is a well-known American artist, Joseph Cornell, who created works of art from small, unusual items placed in tiny pigeon-holes inside a large frame.  Eco's work reminds me of that.  Where else could you find, side by side, in an amazing soup of crazy ideas, such different things ?  Rosicrucians.  Hitler.  the Holy Grail.  Trumpet dreams and cabbage soup.  Occultism run amok.  The Druidic College of Gaul.  Masonry.  Numerology.  The hollow earth theory.  Shiism and the Assassins.  Bacon, Shakespeare, and Cervantes and all their ghost writers.  The Tsarist secret police.  Ayers Rock (Uluru).  Old maps.  Kabbala of cars (the motor, axles, etc. as the Tree of Sefirot !)  Macumba.  Manifestoes.  Sepulchres.  Alchemy.  Heresy. Immortality.  Rare books.  Luminous wheels in the sea.  Enigmas.  The Protocols of the Learned Elders of Zion.  Mages.  Secret brotherhoods.  Jesuits.  Menhirs.  Minnie Mouse.  The golem.  Greek migrations into Yucatan.  Tauroboliastes.  Telluric currents.  Self-financed authors.  Osmognosis.  Queen Elizabeth I.  The Gregorian calendar reform.  And I'm just scratching the surface here.  \\"History is a Master because it teaches us that it doesn't exist.\\"  I think this is a kind of pseudo-Zen dictum, but FOUCAULT'S PENDULUM will certainly give your brain a run for its money.  Is history what we think it is?  Why ?  Maybe the book isn't for everyone.  You need a bit of patience to wade through all the crazy theories, and rabid reasonings, trying to connect all the signs and symbols to the real world outside the book.  As the characters muse early on, there are four kinds of people in this world---cretins, fools, morons, and lunatics.  Let us add the fifth-those who can read FOUCAULT'S PENDULUM.  I must be one of them.such different things ?  Rosicrucians.  Hitler.  the Holy Grail.  Trumpet dreams and cabbage soup.  Occultism run amok.  The Druidic College of Gaul.  Masonry.  Numerology.  The hollow earth theory.  Shiism and the Assassins.  Bacon, Shakespeare, and Cervantes and all their ghost writers.  The Tsarist secret police.  Ayers Rock (Uluru).  Old maps.  Kabbala of cars (the motor, axles, etc. as the Tree of Sefirot !)  Macumba.  Manifestoes.  Sepulchres.  Alchemy.  Heresy. Immortality.  Rare books.  Luminous wheels in the sea.  Enigmas.  The Protocols of the Learned Elders of Zion.  Mages.  Secret brotherhoods.  Jesuits.  Menhirs.  Minnie Mouse.  The golem.  Greek migrations into Yucatan.  Tauroboliastes.  Telluric currents.  Self-financed authors.  Osmognosis.  Queen Elizabeth I.  The Gregorian calendar reform.  And I'm just scratching the surface here.  \\"History is a Master because it teaches us that it doesn't exist.\\"  I think this is a kind of pseudo-Zen dictum, but FOUCAULT'S PENDULUM will certainly give your brain a run for its money.  Is history what we think it is?  Why ?  Maybe the book isn't for everyone.  You need a bit of patience to wade through all the crazy theories, and rabid reasonings, trying to connect all the signs and symbols to the real world outside the book.  As the characters muse early on, there are four kinds of people in this world---cretins, fools, morons, and lunatics.  Let us add the fifth-those who can read FOUCAULT'S PENDULUM.  I must be one of them.	2003-12-07
US	52761040	R2H15RHFHB4K7I	0195198395	937168592	Amazon Town: A Study of Man in the Tropics (Galaxy Books)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	classic ethnography holds up well	At a time when most anthropologists were still thinking about remote tribal peoples, Charles Wagley carried out this study of a small town on the lower banks of the Amazon.  Though he gave the place a pseudonym, it is now widely known that the actual site was Gurupa.  The picture drawn---of Gurupa in 1948-52---remains clearly in a reader's mind; the large trees along the riverfront, the big houses on the street facing the river, the poorer ones on Second Street, behind, and the poorest houses, really shacks, on Third Street.  The jungle and manioc fields began after the third street.  Many citizens of Gurupa actually lived isolated lives out along forested creeks that ran into the big river.  Wagley draws a portrait, through several well-constructed chapters, of a town that suffered from centuries of boom and bust, the last boom having been in rubber which brought great prosperity to some in the Amazon region up until 1912, when prices collapsed.  Since agriculture remained very basic, almost nobody could subsist on what they grew.  They could trade collected rubber or forest products for the food they needed. A true colonial economy.  Still, a large number of citizens went hungry.  Disease and malnutrition took a heavy toll.  A rigid class system held in Gurupa, based largely on race, but without rigid barriers to marriage or association as found in the American South at the same time.  Besides a few store keepers and government servants, most people had little access to cash.  Most knew little about the outside world.  Wagley included two very interesting chapters---one on social and cultural life, the second on how folk beliefs merged with Catholicism to create a unique Amazonian vision of the world.  Fascinating stuff about dolphins in human form.  In another useful chapter, the author contrasts Gurupa with \\"Plainville\\", an anonymous Midwestern town in the USA, studied by James West at around the same time.  In my edition, the final chapter was written about changes by a graduate student who went to Gurupa in the early 1970s.  Though the population had increased and the old class system had largely broken down, economically little had changed.<br />  After half a century, concerns and methodology in any field can hardly be expected to remain the same.  Few authors include any longer factoids like \\"upper class women own 3.6 pairs of shoes, while the lower class women in town own only 1.7 pairs\\".  Applied anthropology---the use of anthropology to help bring desired changes to undeveloped areas of the world---(\\"desired by whom ?\\" is the question.)---has largely disappeared now, along with much quantification.  Western anthropologists in the 1940s and `50s lived in righteous belief that they possessed the knowledge to bring new lives to millions and that their duty was to do so.  Though AMAZON TOWN is infused with this spirit, the basic clarity and accuracy of observation still holds up well.  I can not claim that the book will give you a picture of the Amazon today, but as a document of social history, AMAZON TOWN must be a classic, indispensable for those who would like to understand the region, and if not up there in the realms of beautiful writing with \\"Akenfield\\" or \\"Village in the Vaucluse\\", is still a strong example of an old-school ethnography.anges by a graduate student who went to Gurupa in the early 1970s.  Though the population had increased and the old class system had largely broken down, economically little had changed.<br />   After half a century, concerns and methodology in any field can hardly be expected to remain the same.  Few authors include any longer factoids like \\"upper class women own 3.6 pairs of shoes, while the lower class women in town own only 1.7 pairs\\".  Applied anthropology---the use of anthropology to help bring desired changes to undeveloped areas of the world---(\\"desired by whom ?\\" is the question.)---has largely disappeared now, along with much quantification.  Western anthropologists in the 1940s and `50s lived in righteous belief that they possessed the knowledge to bring new lives to millions and that their duty was to do so.  Though AMAZON TOWN is infused with this spirit, the basic clarity and accuracy of observation still holds up well.   I can not claim that the book will give you a picture of the Amazon today, but as a document of social history, AMAZON TOWN must be a classic, indispensable for those who would like to understand the region, and if not up there in the realms of beautiful writing with \\"Akenfield\\" or \\"Village in the Vaucluse\\", is still a strong example of an old-school ethnography.	2003-11-26
US	52761040	RL6L5FKCHP6KB	0140187707	727863547	The Octopus: A Story of California (Twentieth Century Classics) (v. 1)	Books	4	15	18	N	N	ranchers, railroads, rebellion, redemption, and revenge	Prolixity, thy name is Norris !  My edition of 448 pages says that it has been edited.  I would have been interested to know in what way because Norris is nothing if not verbose and repetitive.  Add a healthy dose of 19th century idealistic, rosy romanticism, a bit of extra-sensory perception, communication with \\"shades\\", melodramatic deaths, and some old Anglo-Saxon racial prejudices and one would think, \\"Bob, why did you bother ?\\"<br />But you would be wrong.  Though his earlier novel, \\"McTeague\\" is probably his best work, Norris comes close, in many ways, to his idol, Zola, in creating a realistic portrait of a whole time, a whole area, a whole way of life.  The time is late 19th century, the place, central California's San Joaquin Valley, and the way of life the one centered around wheat production.  No detail escapes the author's eye---the tools, the land, the houses, the railroads, the dialogues, the flowers and animals.  His characters are most lifelike, real people who will stay with you for a long time.  The railway, whose many tentacles sucked the blood out of farmers through freight rates and crooked land deals, is the Octopus of the title.  The vast production of the fertile valley is chased, rounded up, and cornered by the railway monopoly despite the best efforts of a group of wheat farmers to prevent it.  They fight the railway by means of clean politics, dirty politics, and ultimately through violence.  The story is a gripping one, no less than Zola's \\"Germinal\\", but differing from the latter because California was such a different environment from a French coal miners' town.  Class existed---it was not so binding as in Europe---but those at the lower end still lived extremely precariously, as Norris shows.<br />You could say that three young men; one a farmer, the other two intellectuals or dreamers, make up the main characters.  One tries to fight the Octopus and pays the price.  The second remains what he has always been-an introspective dreamer with no thought of creation, only trying to re-create the past to link up with a dead love.  He sees more clearly than the other two even so.  The third is perhaps closest to Norris himself, an upper class urban intellectual cast into this battle of Titans.  He writes poetry expressing his overwrought emotions, he tries to give inflammatory speeches, he even throws a bomb.  He remains peripheral, sailing off to India at the end, not having succeeded in anything, forced by the web of class and social obligation to be closer and more beholden to the capitalist owners of the railroad than to his erstwhile comrades.  Yes, you could say this.  But I think the main characters in this flawed but great novel are the wheat and the railroad which determine the lives of many, forces greater than any one man.  A pity Norris died at the age of 32.  He might eventually have won a Nobel Prize, but for sure he would be remembered as one of the greatest American writers.er with no thought of creation, only trying to re-create the past to link up with a dead love.  He sees more clearly than the other two even so.  The third is perhaps closest to Norris himself, an upper class urban intellectual cast into this battle of Titans.  He writes poetry expressing his overwrought emotions, he tries to give inflammatory speeches, he even throws a bomb.  He remains peripheral, sailing off to India at the end, not having succeeded in anything, forced by the web of class and social obligation to be closer and more beholden to the capitalist owners of the railroad than to his erstwhile comrades.   Yes, you could say this.  But I think the main characters in this flawed but great novel are the wheat and the railroad which determine the lives of many, forces greater than any one man.  A pity Norris died at the age of 32.  He might eventually have won a Nobel Prize, but for sure he would be remembered as one of the greatest American writers.	2003-11-19
US	52761040	R31BIFSI5Z7J21	0449213447	370928266	The Chosen	Books	3	35	39	N	N	Fathers and Sons----the kosher version	When I started reading THE CHOSEN, I was rather disappointed.  It read like a run-of-the-mill pop fiction work for at least 90 pages.  Reuven Malter, 15, plays baseball for his yeshiva team in Brooklyn; their opponents are a Hasidic team whose star is Danny Saunders, the 15 year old son of the religious guru or the tzaddik of a Hasidic community.  The teams clash, Reuven winds up in the hospital thanks to stopping a vicious line drive with his glasses.  Danny, the hitter, comes to visit him and apologizes.  They become friends.  The year is 1944---D-Day and the war hover in the background.  There are a couple other stock characters.  At that point, the tenor of the novel changes to a schematic balancing of the two sets of fathers and sons. Reuven's father teaches in the yeshiva where his son studies, but he is more open to the outside world.  Danny's father is a patriarch steeped in tradition, bearing the cares of all his people on his shoulders, revered by them to extremes.  Danny, with a photographic memory and keen mind, has long been tipped to succeed his father, hence he is \\"the chosen\\" one.  Reuven, the less religious of the two, decides to become a rabbi.  Danny wants to go into psychology, but will his father permit it ?  Can their friendship hold out before the narrow, strict vision of life of Danny's father ? Will Danny's fate be decided for him or will the American ideal of individual choice prevail ?<br />THE CHOSEN is a coming of age novel with a difference, it traces the onset of maturity, the making of life choices in an environment unfamiliar to most people in the world. Mainly, though, the novel compares and contrasts differing ideas on Jewish life and the creation of Israel. There are also earnest discourses on psychology and Freud, the Talmud and logic.  Readers can learn a lot about Jewish tradition and customs, including, by induction, the importance of women in Orthodox Jewish life (there are perhaps ten lines about women in the whole book, showing how they take care of men).  Though I did learn a lot about Hasidic thought and practice, I did not admire this novel in terms of literary power.  Both Bernard Malamud and Isaac Bashevis Singer wrote to a much higher standard on similar topics.  I felt continually as though Potok was using the text to educate me.  I don't object to such sincere and gentle lecturing, but it seldom produces great literature.  I think that your take on this novel will depend on your age.  The younger you are, the fresher it will appear.wing how they take care of men).  Though I did learn a lot about Hasidic thought and practice, I did not admire this novel in terms of literary power.  Both Bernard Malamud and Isaac Bashevis Singer wrote to a much higher standard on similar topics.  I felt continually as though Potok was using the text to educate me.  I don't object to such sincere and gentle lecturing, but it seldom produces great literature.  I think that your take on this novel will depend on your age.  The younger you are, the fresher it will appear.	2003-11-18
US	52761040	RFXBLV75YHL1C	0140095144	755563570	Arabian Sands: Revised Edition (Travel Library)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The Last of the Barefoot Explorers	When I was a kid I dreamt of being an explorer.  Never mind that I had never been out of New England and had no possibility of doing so.  Discovering new lands and peoples seemed such a great job.  What I couldn't figure out was how you got BE an explorer ?  What, did you take a course someplace ?  Once, in talking of other things, my father happened to remark that there must have been parts of the Maine woods where nobody had ever set foot (I don't think he was considering the Indians).  Yes, I thought, first I would explore Maine and then, maybe some other, more distant lands.  As I grew older, I realized the awful truth.  Unless you wanted to freeze in Antarctica, dangle from icy rocks on a few mountains, or chop your way through insect-ridden, steamy jungles, there were no places left to explore.  I was a slide rule in a computer age.  Ah, well.....<br />  Wilfred Thesiger was born in more fortunate circumstances for an exploring life.  His father was not a small businessman in New England, but the British ambassador to Ethiopia in the days when all parts of that country had not been visited by Westerners.  The first part of ARABIAN SANDS describes the author's adventures travelling in wilder parts of Ethiopia.  After Middle Eastern service in Sudan and elsewhere during WW II, Thesiger signed on as a locust hunter in the Arabian Peninsula, trying to locate the then unknown breeding grounds for the dreaded insect.  He did it purely to be able to travel through the most unknown parts of the region, the Rub al-Khali or \\"the Sands\\"; Oman, the Hadhramaut, and the southern reaches of Saudi Arabia.  He travelled with small groups of Bedu (Bedouin) on camelback, always barefoot and dressed in Arab clothing.  He faced thirst, hunger, cold, the risk of serious accident, arrest by Saudi and Omani authorities, and death at the hands of raiding tribesmen.  With no available maps, Thesiger relied completely on the guiding skills of various Bedu whom he hired.  He had no radio, no global positioning whatevers, and no chance of a helicopter rescue.<br />ARABIAN SANDS tells the story of Thesiger's travels in the Arabian deserts in the years 1945-1950, before Big Oil changed the lives of everybody there.  An interesting pair of books to read to get an idea of the old world and how it changed would be this one plus Abdelrahman Munif's novel \\"Cities of Salt\\".  Thesiger hated modernization and cities and would have preferred that the Bedu remain in their poverty, but in a state of desert purity.  I feel that he romanticized the Bedu and the desert environment to an extreme because of his own character.  Nevertheless his descriptions of Bedu life, their culture, and behavior are fascinating, as are many of the events that took place over the course of his long travels.  If you are at all interested in that part of the world or in adventurous travels before the world became entrapped in visas and metal detectors, you must read this one !o, no global positioning whatevers, and no chance of a helicopter rescue.<br />ARABIAN SANDS tells the story of Thesiger's travels in the Arabian deserts in the years 1945-1950, before Big Oil changed the lives of everybody there.  An interesting pair of books to read to get an idea of the old world and how it changed would be this one plus Abdelrahman Munif's novel \\"Cities of Salt\\".  Thesiger hated modernization and cities and would have preferred that the Bedu remain in their poverty, but in a state of desert purity.  I feel that he romanticized the Bedu and the desert environment to an extreme because of his own character.  Nevertheless his descriptions of Bedu life, their culture, and behavior are fascinating, as are many of the events that took place over the course of his long travels.  If you are at all interested in that part of the world or in adventurous travels before the world became entrapped in visas and metal detectors, you must read this one !	2003-11-14
US	52761040	R2DFH7JLGBSE3O	0091222206	623293232	The northern barbarians, 100 B.C.-A.D. 300	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Conan, youve got to be kidding !	In the days of the Roman Empire, civilization stopped at the Rhine and the Danube, or at least, so the Romans believed.  The peoples beyond the frontiers were known collectively as \\"barbarians\\".  Historians of those times recorded the names of many tribes and the customs of some.  As Todd writes, \\"Roman writers and their public were rather more interested in the lurid and sensational aspects of barbarian peoples than in commonplace beliefs and customs, an attitude towards primitive man not unknown in the civilized world today.\\"  But as we look  away from the Germanic peoples close to the Rhine, Roman knowledge got slim and shaky.  Only modern archaeology has been able to expand our understanding of the barbarian cultures and practices.  Archaeology has its limitations of course.  Todd's focus is the whole Germanic world, which in those days stretched from Holland, across Germany, and into what is now Poland, Scandinavia, and the Czech Republic.  Todd begins with an outline of the seven principal cultures as known to archaeology, not with the tribal groups as listed by the Romans.  Throughout the book he uses both archaeology and the works of ancient writers like Pliny and Tacitus, comparing and contrasting the evidence obtained from each.  We find many useful maps, diagrams, figures, and a few photographs.  It is an exceptionally thorough work covering such topics as settlements and agriculture, technology, armament and warfare, and religion.  Todd often refers to the Roman influence that occurred due to trade, interweaving of cultures along the frontier, warfare, and then the later barbarian invasions of depopulated or weakened frontier areas where the invaders would settle and adopt a Roman lifestyle.  In general, techniques and objects penetrated deeply into barbarian territory, but organization did not---the reason why Rome could hold back the barbarian peoples for so long.<br />In short, THE NORTHERN BARBARIANS is a five-star work, but only for professionals, only for serious academics.  For them, it must be a veritable handbook, an indispensable reference book which compiles all the known (to 1987) data on the Germanic peoples of northern Europe.  I found this book heavy going and with more general readers in mind, have given it only three stars.  Its tenor may be recognized on page 14. Todd writes of Tacitus' \\"Germania\\" as being of \\"outstanding importance for the student of Germanic society and tribal geography.  It will be assumed that the reader has read the book, and preferably keeps it at hand.\\"  That no doubt helps to explain why much of this book reads like a catalogue filled with a mass of descriptive material that a person new to the subject cannot digest.  My previous connection with barbarians had been more in the realm of Conan.  I realize now that film was chock-full of inaccuracies.  What a surprise, eh ?only for serious academics.  For them, it must be a veritable handbook, an indispensable reference book which compiles all the known (to 1987) data on the Germanic peoples of northern Europe.  I found this book heavy going and with more general readers in mind, have given it only three stars.  Its tenor may be recognized on page 14. Todd writes of Tacitus' \\"Germania\\" as being of \\"outstanding importance for the student of Germanic society and tribal geography.  It will be assumed that the reader has read the book, and preferably keeps it at hand.\\"  That no doubt helps to explain why much of this book reads like a catalogue filled with a mass of descriptive material that a person new to the subject cannot digest.  My previous connection with barbarians had been more in the realm of Conan.  I realize now that film was chock-full of inaccuracies.  What a surprise, eh ?	2003-11-03
US	52761040	R2CR0IZDCWXI7P	0140180826	859116574	20th Century Maurice (Modern Classics)	Books	4	55	56	N	N	a novel not published for many years	MAURICE is a novel of homosexual love, the first one I have ever read, but more than that it is a very direct description, perhaps as honest as could be---without either sensationalism or trivialization---of the inner feelings of a homosexual man.  It begins when the main character, Maurice Hall, is a school boy, traces his emotional life through Cambridge and into the world of work, and ends in an upbeat, if rather abrupt fashion.  In the confusion of early years, Maurice does not realize his true nature, but loses himself in sports, hi-jinks and studies.  He devotes himself to his mother and two sisters.  In short, his is the life of a typical English public school boy at the time (pre-WW I)  Only at university does he recognize his real nature, though he'd had intimations mostly ignored, and truly falls in love with Clive Durham, a fellow student.  Forster traces the ups and downs of this affair, leading the reader through all the ups and downs of homosexual love affairs.  Maurice joins a financial investment firm, leading a totally conventional life in Britain's rigid class society, except for his sexual orientation.  Eventually events take an unplanned course, Maurice winds up with another man, of a different class and nature.  He experiences hitherto unknown problems.  The ending, given Forster's rather pessimistic outlook on life, is unexpected.<br /><br />  This novel may not be for everybody, but if you attempt it, you will admire the skillful writing of E.M. Forster and you will come away appreciating his honesty.  The dialogues sound very alien to an American in the early 21st century---a whole different way of using the English language---but no doubt they add a special flavor to the book, a period piece after all.  I would say that a person who does not try to understand all aspects of the human condition has not truly lived, has not truly understood himself/herself.  This is to readers who may not see the point of reading a novel about homosexual love.  If you can't appreciate it as the great literature it is, perhaps you will think about the courage it took to write such a novel in 1914.  Even then, it was not published until 1971, a year after Forster's death.  Perhaps you will imagine what it is to become a great writer and still not touch upon a subject so close to your heart.If you can't appreciate it as the great literature it is, perhaps you will think about the courage it took to write such a novel in 1914.  Even then, it was not published until 1971, a year after Forster's death.  Perhaps you will imagine what it is to become a great writer and still not touch upon a subject so close to your heart.	2003-11-01
US	52761040	R1NNECLKHWDSPX	0806115610	753537189	The Gunfighter: Man or Myth?	Books	3	7	12	N	N	.when two men meet in a dusty street..	Only one returns.  At least, that's the way it always used to be on Saturday afternoons at the movies here in Marblehead, Mass. about half a century ago.  Television kept the tradition going a bit longer, and then there was Clint Eastwood.  Yup.  Nope.  Well, it turns out that all this was pure mythology.  Joseph Rosa did some excellent research back in the 1960s and came up with the ultimate book on the subject of guns and gunfighting in the Old West.  Despite Hollywood, most of those gunfighting heroes, were, not to put too fine a point on it, pathological killers.  If they lived, it was because they didn't hesitate to kill in situations where they felt threatened.  Men with some qualms about taking human life usually lost their own.  Fast draws ?  Showdowns in the main street lined with those hitchin' posts and false fronted saloons ?  Forget it, that almost never happened. Still, Wild Bill Hickok, Wyatt Earp, Bat Masterson, and many others whose names are written in American legend did exist.  Perhaps the reality was neither as pretty or as irreproachable as the legend.  They often consorted with the bad guys and definitely with ladies of ill-repute.<br />If you happen to be interested in the 19th century development and manufacture of various brands of pistol, THE GUNFIGHTER is certainly your book.  It's all in here.  You can also read countless stories of the many gunfighters, lawmen, and semi-heroes who fought (and usually died) in the bad old days.  Gunfighting cowboys or sheriffs over 30 must have been a rarity.  Of course, nobody had heard of testosterone in those days.  Gunfighters appeared in the cattle towns in Kansas, in mining towns like Tombstone, and wherever cattle barons clashed with settlers.  Rosa concentrates on Kansas and Texas, but the phenomenon existed all over.  I feel that Rosa got lost in a galaxy of details.  He can and does tell you the story of a hundred famous gunfights, of who killed whom, in what part of the body he was shot, and with what weapon.  What is missing is a wider view of history, any connection to the rest of the world or the rest of America.  He frequently compares the reality to the movies and dime novel fantasies, which I appreciated very much, but he cannot seem to decide whether he is a local historian or one who wants to put the whole subject in the context of American history and culture.  THE GUNFIGHTER falls between the cracks.  Anyhow, if the topic interests you, I doubt if you can afford to ignore Rosa's work.ith what weapon.  What is missing is a wider view of history, any connection to the rest of the world or the rest of America.  He frequently compares the reality to the movies and dime novel fantasies, which I appreciated very much, but he cannot seem to decide whether he is a local historian or one who wants to put the whole subject in the context of American history and culture.  THE GUNFIGHTER falls between the cracks.   Anyhow, if the topic interests you, I doubt if you can afford to ignore Rosa's work.	2003-10-22
US	52761040	R2A7FCLTHAAXB4	0312073151	232904283	Being Indian in Hueyapan : a Study of Forced Identity in Contemporary Mexico	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Investigating Negative Identity in Mexico	Bantamweights can duck and jab, they can throw a few good punches too.  It's not only the heavyweights of this world who can score points.  Myself, I prefer reading anthropology books to watching boxing matches, but the analogy still holds.  As far as I know, Judith Friedlander is an anthropology professor in New York who never wrote any more books on Mexico.  Yet she packs a lot of punch in BEING INDIAN IN HUEYAPAN.  Her basic premise is concise.  \\"To be Indian in Hueyapan [a small mountain village in the state of Morelos in Mexico] is to have a primarily negative identity.  Indian-ness is more a measure of what the villagers are not or do not have vis-&agrave;-vis the Hispanic elite than it is of what they are or have.\\"  The culture of the people living in this village had changed a lot over the 400 years till the early 1970s, but as she says, \\"the cultural relationship of Indian to Hispanic remained the same.\\"  First the church, then the Spanish colonizers and rulers, and then the independent Mexican government and its ruling class defined Indians as being outside of normal, mestizo society.  Over the centuries, governing elites have forced so much change on the Indian societies in Mexico that almost nothing remains of pre-Hispanic culture.  Certain aspects of \\"Indian\\" society that are held up today as evidence of cultural survivals are actually proof of earlier Hispanic influence that has died out in the mainstream society.  Friedlander points out that the Mexican government since the Revolution of 1910-1920 has tried to incorporate the Indian communities into wider Mexican society and, at the same time, tried to maintain their so-called Indian identity and their accompanying low socio-economic position.  An image of \\"Indian Mexico\\" is manufactured for tourists, for national image making, and to cover up the fact that many people remain at the margins of society.  The author finds that tradition says that two peoples occupy modern Mexico---Indians and mestizos-but that the distinction is a false one.<br />  BEING INDIAN IN HUEYAPAN is well-written and centers around a very clear, definable argument.  I would not hesitate to recommend it to anyone teaching undergraduate courses in Anthropology or Latin American studies.  It could also be useful for anyone interested in native American peoples' fate in the 20th century.  The photographs are fine and there is no use of baffling jargon.  However, I would say that there are 3 points to consider---they could form the basis of many a discussion.  1) Friedlander does not refer to any works on ethnic identity or on how groups identify themselves.  Culture changes constantly.  To say that the Mexican Indians are now not much like their ancient ancestors or are pretty much like other Mexicans is not proof that they have ceased to exist.  The Hueyapan villagers spoke Nahuatl.  In European tradition, speaking another language more or less guarantees that you will be seen as belonging to \\"another ethnic group\\", no matter how culturally similar you are to the rest.  Does learning one's own language automatically mean that one is consigned to the lowest class ?  Is this an argument for monolingualism ? Perhaps she did not come to the bottom of the matter.  2) There are a number of examples, in the literature, of peoples who saw themselves as the same, but were defined as separate by Europeans---E.R. Leach's \\"Political Systems of Highland Burma\\" comes to mind, as well as the historic creation of several peoples out of one in Rwanda and Burundi.  Then we have the Serbs and Croatians, who see themselves as completely different, a distinction not so apparent to outsiders.  Mexico's Indian peoples may differ from the general population in some ways as well as being the same.  The situation would beg a more complex attitude.  This leads to my third point.  Friedlander concludes that doing research on Mexican Indians opens the way for misuse of the results.  Perhaps defining \\"Indians\\", she concludes, only helps to maintain false distinctions, leading to perpetuation of their exploitation for ever-new purposes.  She says that she had come to believe that anthropologists should work only on their own communities.  I would argue that research of any kind can always be exploited for bad purposes.  To continue this line of thinking would be to cancel out 99% of the research in any field.  In a time of huge misunderstandings in the world, compounded by huge exploitation, a time of rising ignorance and intolerance, it would seem a folly to turn inward.  Ideally, every community in developed countries as well as less-developed ones could be studied by people from elsewhere.  For economic and political reasons this will not happen.  To argue that nothing is better than something is merely hiding our heads in the sand.only helps to maintain false distinctions, leading to perpetuation of their exploitation for ever-new purposes.  She says that she had come to believe that anthropologists should work only on their own communities.  I would argue that research of any kind can always be exploited for bad purposes.  To continue this line of thinking would be to cancel out 99% of the research in any field.  In a time of huge misunderstandings in the world, compounded by huge exploitation, a time of rising ignorance and intolerance, it would seem a folly to turn inward.  Ideally, every community in developed countries as well as less-developed ones could be studied by people from elsewhere.  For economic and political reasons this will not happen.  To argue that nothing is better than something is merely hiding our heads in the sand.	2003-10-12
US	52761040	R19YMZV2S0621D	0688033067	788065045	Undying Grass	Books	3	2	5	N	Y	The unending story	I readily confess that I've only read this, the third volume of a 3 part series.  So, of course, I might have missed a lot of the nuances I could have picked up if I'd read things in order.  However, it is the author's responsibility to make each book understandable in itself, not dependent on prior volumes.  But don't anticipate my comments---I am not going to say that this novel is incomprehensible.  THE UNDYING GRASS is a part of Yashar Kemal's giant body of work and in it we see many of the same elements at work: sympathetic treatment of Turkey's working people, depiction of feudal injustice, the tragic results of ignorance, man's struggle with nature, and the natural world of the Chukurova, that semi-legendary (as presented in Kemal's work) area in southern Anatolia where most of his stories take place.  The time, as usual, is a little vague.  In the background are American jet planes taking off from Incirlik airbase, Mercedes Benz', mention of Red China and even Fidel Castro---so it has to be the 1960s--- but nothing whatsoever of the modern world penetrates the lives of our characters, who seem stuck in the early Ataturk era.<br />  What I will say is that every author has a bad day, maybe makes an unfortunate collection of choices.  Perhaps this novel represents one of those times.  It is too long, it is too slow.  I felt that having developed these characters over two previous novels, Kemal did not want to drop them, but did not know what to do with them.  Their thoughts, feelings, and actions are repeated over and over.  Memedik wants to kill the Muhtar, but how many shadows does he fear, how many slashes of his willow knife in the air do we see ?  Old Meryemdje survives in the village by herself, wishing for company, plotting to catch a rooster while Omer the orphan has been sent to kill her for reasons the reader of this third volume cannot readily understand.  Long Ali regrets leaving his mother back in the mountain village---he regrets and regrets and regrets, but does nothing.  Tashbash, the martyr-saint, very Christ-like, it seemed to me, goes up and down in villagers' estimation like a yo-yo. Points are not only made, they are hammered home. Everything is drawn out; steel green flies gather countless times, the saint is beaten and then revered and then beaten again, clouds of mosquitoes plague the cotton-picking villagers in the endless plain again and again, eagles (hope or fate or the possibility of redemption) soar overhead in almost every chapter.  No, I'm sorry.  Kemal has written some excellent novels and I've reviewed them too.  This one should have been cut by a lot.  It isn't one of his best.nd regrets, but does nothing.  Tashbash, the martyr-saint, very Christ-like, it seemed to me, goes up and down in villagers' estimation like a yo-yo. Points are not only made, they are hammered home. Everything is drawn out; steel green flies gather countless times, the saint is beaten and then revered and then beaten again, clouds of mosquitoes plague the cotton-picking villagers in the endless plain again and again, eagles (hope or fate or the possibility of redemption) soar overhead in almost every chapter.  No, I'm sorry.  Kemal has written some excellent novels and I've reviewed them too.  This one should have been cut by a lot.  It isn't one of his best.	2003-10-07
US	52761040	RT2791A8VRAB	1860463916	59425868	Memed, My Hawk	Books	5	34	35	N	N	Once Upon a Time in Turkey	Down in that fertile part of southern Anatolia called the Chukurova, where crops yielded forty-fold and deer, birds, and beetles throve, the feudal landlords, who owned entire villages, oppressed the peasants mightily.  They took whatever share of the crops they desired and could beat the villagers on any whim, or even drive them from their homes.  Justice was an undreamt-of luxury.  For rebels, or for those who had incurred the landlords' wrath, the only alternative-besides joining the Army---was to become a bandit in the mountains.  The life of a bandit, though, however free, was usually short.  Yashar Kemal, who grew up in this area, wrote this novel back in the 1950s; his first major work, which by now has been translated into nearly every major language and has become a modern classic.<br />Kemal introduces the life and traditions of the inhabitants of the Chukurova, a region unknown in most parts of the world.  At least, he gives us a picture of the life they had in the 1920s or `30s.  The novel describes the social conditions then existing there, introduces dozens of interesting, colorful characters, and also focusses on the natural environment, which by our times, has mostly disappeared.  All this is done through the medium of a fast-moving, action-packed story which could be the script of a film (and may well have been, though I never saw it anywhere).  Memed, a slim young man, wishes to marry Hatche, a beautiful village girl.  The nasty landlord has other ideas---he wants her to marry his ugly nephew.  The young lovers elope into the forest, but are surrounded by the landlord's minions.  Memed draws his pistol and shoots the nephew dead, wounding the landlord.  Memed winds up as a bandit, Hatche winds up in jail, and the rotten landlord has Memed's mother beaten to death.  Her son swears revenge.  Nomads, trackers, crazy bandit chiefs, tough peasant women, village farmers, policemen---the number of lifelike characters is endless.  Memed not only turns bandit, but he becomes a Robin Hood character, a legend in his own time, who defies the prevailing feudal order and even re-distributes the landlord's fields to the tillers at one point.  No wonder they loved him !  Perhaps some of Kemal's later work is deeper psychologically, perhaps his palette of colors got wider, but MEMED MY HAWK stands out as a great story written in masterful style.  It is a novel about justice, a novel that treats basic human emotions in any time or place.  It heralded the arrival of a major author on the world scene.  I recently read it again.  I liked it just as much.ndit, but he becomes a Robin Hood character, a legend in his own time, who defies the prevailing feudal order and even re-distributes the landlord's fields to the tillers at one point.  No wonder they loved him !  Perhaps some of Kemal's later work is deeper psychologically, perhaps his palette of colors got wider, but MEMED MY HAWK stands out as a great story written in masterful style.  It is a novel about justice, a novel that treats basic human emotions in any time or place.  It heralded the arrival of a major author on the world scene.  I recently read it again.  I liked it just as much.	2003-10-02
US	52761040	RP45WKL9QJ3M8	0062502425	376561194	Shabono: A Visit to a Remote and Magical World in the South American Rain Forest	Books	3	8	16	N	N	Florinda's Excellent Adventure	So, y'know, like, there's this really geeky anthropologist ?  She's goin around with a notebook and tape recorder, and like sticking her nose in all these foreign people's business ?  She probably even, like, goes in for all kindsa dorky music, you know, like Bay Thoven or Lawrence Whelk ?  But one day, she goes, \\"Whoa, dude !  Like I'm outta here.\\" and like she disappears into the Amazon jungle with this Indian who's like totally cool.  You shoulda seen his abs.  She takes along a big diamond and a pearl, but no matches.  She winds up hanging out with this Indian tribe deep in the forest who eat all kinds of totally yucky things, sleep in hammocks, and don't even have TV.  Amazing.  She shoots fish with arrows, goes around naked, gets into body painting, and really gets into the culture, you know what I mean ?  And she really digs the Indian philosophy-`cuz y'know they're like really close to nature.  They know stuff that we don't know, magic and everything.  Awesome sunsets and storms too.  The real downer was she lost all her notes and photos.  What a bummer, huh ?  But she gave them her diamond and pearl before she came back to L.A.<br />Yes, sorry about that.  SHABONO is an excellent read----descriptions of the jungle, the Indians, and adventures galore.  I would say it is engrossing and well worth a few hours of your time.  If, however, you are looking for anthropology, if you are looking for information about the oft-studied Yanomamo, the world's official \\"Primitive People\\", then give this book a miss.  It's unbelievable.  Donner definitely knew something about the Yanomamo, but how much time she ever spent with them is open to question.  This book could have been written as anthropo-fiction.  If that is the case, then I owe the author an apology because it deserves five stars as an effort in that direction.  But with endorsements by Carlos Castaneda on front and back covers, I think she wanted readers to believe that this all happened.  No way, dude.	2003-09-17
US	52761040	R2ZIVLSXE9K14Z	1860465137	213374670	Salman the Solitary (Panther)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Boys, Bandits, and Bestiality---a Brilliant Epic	Bubbling up, welling into the world from deep inside, this heady mixture of myth, legend, and Turkish folktale comes, not from tradition but from the fertile imagination of Yashar Kemal.  As in his other books, the reader enters a world of flashing, flying colors, repeated images and metaphors, coppery mists, blood-dripping trees, violence, love, and jealousy.  Lightning zigzags through the clouds ever more threateningly, the wind carries the scents of the mountain, bitter plants, thyme, pennyroyal, rocks, and eartth, boys dig for kingfishers, men shoot and devour herds of gazelles and spend years of their lives fighting with endless wastes full of thorny trees.  Nothing is minimalist about Kemal.  Perhaps we could call him a \\"maximalist\\"; he creates the maximum amount of atmosphere.<br />The depth of Kemal's characters comes obliquely, through the thick tissue of mythological repetition and slow transformation.  Perhaps the weaving of a Turkish kilim, or traditional carpet, would not be a bad metaphor for how the story proceeds.  The filips, the changes of direction and mood, are not found in dialogue between characters so much as in passages of gossip among unnamed villagers.  SALMAN THE SOLITARY, while similar in style to the other Kemal novels I've read, seems less coherent, though fascinating nonetheless.  Several stories are wound together like separate colors of a carpet.  Young boys, with childish perceptions of events and childish appreciation of natural beauty, feature as always.  Then, there is the story of the Kurdish Ismail Agha, his flight from war and massacre, and rebirth as a Cukurova landlord---the Cukurova being the nearly-mythological land where Kemal himself was born.  Third, there is the legend of Halil Zalimoglu, a village youth from the mountains who labors for a rapacious Cukurova landlord for seven years, denying himself everything to save money.  In the end, the landlord refuses to pay him.  Zalimoglu's revenge follows.  And fourth, in the title role, as it were, is the story of Salman, an abandoned green-eyed waif left to die by the roadside, saved by Ismail Agha during his refugee flight, and brought up in his household.  Salman grows up a loner, a strangeling, obsessed with power and position.  He is jealous of everyone, especially Ismail Agha's real son.  He shoots eagles.  The interplay of all these stories forms SALMAN THE SOLITARY which, as I said, at times seems to lack coherence.<br />The Turkish world of Kemal's books differs considerably from the Turkey we see from the outside world.  Perhaps Kemal's Turkey is a continuation on the printed page of the Ottoman Turkey that was an incredible melange of peoples, languages, tribes, and cities, a vibrant civilization that produced a great culture.  Such a civilization, based on an imperial system, could not easily be turned into a nation state.  For political and administrative reasons, then, Turkey re-invented itself as a monolingual, mono-ethnic state.  How far the two images---one in fiction, one in newspapers and history books---have reconciled, I don't know.  Perhaps Kemal's image bears elements of wishful thinking, perhaps not.  In any case, this novel, like his others, presents a colorful, violent world where men wrest their lives in struggles with the land and each other, a novel well worth reading, a novel that opens worlds undreamt of in quiet New England towns by the sea.he title role, as it were, is the story of Salman, an abandoned green-eyed waif left to die by the roadside, saved by Ismail Agha during his refugee flight, and brought up in his household.  Salman grows up a loner, a strangeling, obsessed with power and position.  He is jealous of everyone, especially Ismail Agha's real son.  He shoots eagles.  The interplay of all these stories forms SALMAN THE SOLITARY which, as I said, at times seems to lack coherence.  <br />The Turkish world of Kemal's books differs considerably from the Turkey we see from the outside world.  Perhaps Kemal's Turkey is a continuation on the printed page of the Ottoman Turkey that was an incredible melange of peoples, languages, tribes, and cities, a vibrant civilization that produced a great culture.  Such a civilization, based on an imperial system, could not easily be turned into a nation state.  For political and administrative reasons, then, Turkey re-invented itself as a monolingual, mono-ethnic state.  How far the two images---one in fiction, one in newspapers and history books---have reconciled, I don't know.  Perhaps Kemal's image bears elements of wishful thinking, perhaps not.  In any case, this novel, like his others, presents a colorful, violent world where men wrest their lives in struggles with the land and each other, a novel well worth reading, a novel that opens worlds undreamt of in quiet New England towns by the sea.	2003-09-11
US	52761040	RICX57ZRDUH8O	0749390573	911763256	The Sea-crossed Fisherman	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Kid Killer Meets Mythic Man in Marmara	Zeynel kicks open the caf&eacute; door and murders Ihsan in the first paragraph of Kemal's novel.  Fisher Selim forces him to drop the gun and spits in his face, but doesn't turn him in.  The contrast between these two is set up, then, on the very first page and lasts throughout the book.  Zeynel becomes a wanted fugitive, fleeing endlessly around Istanbul, trying to stay one step ahead of the cops.  The newspapers blow him up into Turkey's most wanted criminal, turn him into an all-powerful monster, lay each latest crime at his door.  Selim dreams, fishes, mourns  lost loves for both woman and dolphin, mostly does little, but helps his fellow man. In this book, Kemal is not so much a writer as a mythmaker.  If THE SEA-CROSSED SAILOR is not mythology, I'll eat my hat.  It's modern mythology, though, with the forces of good being those who fight against rapacious capitalism and for the environment---for those who love dolphins, justice, and gardens, against those former drug and gun runners who knock down beautiful old houses and trees and put up nine story blocks of flats,.  How many times does the sun stop at the horizon, rose-purple, rose-purple clouds floating about it, staining the water purple,while airplanes glided like golden bullets through the sun, flashing rose-purple in and out of the clouds ?  Fisher Selim is a strong, wise hero who confronts evil in several forms, overcomes it, and is transformed.  Kemal's writing is color, images piled on top of each other like eggplants, carrots, peppers, leeks, and cauliflowers in the Istanbul bazaar.  The novel is packed chock-full of emotion---violence, sex, love, hate, anger, friendship, loyalty--- action, whether running from the cops or fishing or shooting down the guilty and innocent---dreams and visions.  You will not find the placid ponds of suburbia here.  Yashar Kemal may not be the philosopher that Orhan Pamuk is, but his Istanbul is far more lively than Pamuk's.  It is not a middle-class, intellectual Istanbul in a dark suit.  It is a city riven between super-rich and dirt-poor.  It is the smell of rotten garbage floating in the Golden Horn and it is grilled fish dripping out of a hunk of bread onto your pants.  The author's sympathy is always with the poor, the millions who toil and live in the jerry-built slums, whose homes are often knocked down by the city.  Sait Faik, in his collection of stories \\"Dot on the Map\\" produced pale efforts in the same direction, in the same landscape, but Kemal's novel is the \\"complete submarine sandwich\\"-juicy, full of interesting bits, and extremely satisfying.  Like the Brazilian author, Jorge Amado, Kemal brings a whole world alive in his novels, a world not much known to outsiders.in a dark suit.  It is a city riven between super-rich and dirt-poor.  It is the smell of rotten garbage floating in the Golden Horn and it is grilled fish dripping out of a hunk of bread onto your pants.  The author's sympathy is always with the poor, the millions who toil and live in the jerry-built slums, whose homes are often knocked down by the city.  Sait Faik, in his collection of stories \\"Dot on the Map\\" produced pale efforts in the same direction, in the same landscape, but Kemal's novel is the \\"complete submarine sandwich\\"-juicy, full of interesting bits, and extremely satisfying.  Like the Brazilian author, Jorge Amado, Kemal brings a whole world alive in his novels, a world not much known to outsiders.	2003-08-28
US	52761040	R1E569WXGE3A5Z	0911012494	421523136	Asians in East Africa: Jayhind and Uhuru (Professional-technical series)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Wild Card Scholar Winds Up Less Than an Ace	I believe that Agehananda Bharati passed away some years ago.  The world thus lost a most fascinating citizen, a most original personality.  Having been in contact with Indians during WW II in Europe (connected to Subhas Chandra Bose's Indian National Army), and having learned Hindi and Sanskrit, the young Austrian who later took the Indian name of Agehananda Bharati studied in Vienna and India, travelled around India on foot, and became a Hindu \\"monk\\" (though I am not sure what is meant by that word in connection with Hinduism).  He later taught at universities in Thailand and Japan, involving himself in Buddhism as well.  He wound up as professor of anthropology at Syracuse University.  This volume on the South Asian community in East Africa was written after some research done in the early 1960s, as the African nations of Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda were achieving their independence from British rule.  At that time, according to Bharati, the Asian population numbered 362,000.  As best I can determine, today it is around 145,000, a substantial decrease owing partly to local hostility to a richer, sometimes exploitative community and partly to the Asians' feeling that they had no future in African societies.<br />Bharati's iconoclastic study reflects his own stance in life as much as being a serious work of anthropology.  It is based, as far as one can tell, on a series of interviews done with people of various castes, religions, language groups, and economic levels among the Asians in East Africa.  It is not informed by any references to studies of immigrant groups in other societies, nor (except for the bibliography) even studies of overseas Indians elsewhere.  A pertinent idea such as `cultural lag' gets a mention only on page 250.  Though his detailed description of the ethnic, religious, and linguistic makeup of the Indian community in East Africa is useful, he quickly reverts to a lifelong practice of \\"slamming\\" modern Hindus for not knowing more about their own religious past, for certain hypocrisies, or for being too puritanical for his liking.  Playing the gadfly is all very well---perhaps his views were needed---but such tendencies do not make for a very coherent anthropological study.  Hypocrisy is hardly limited to Hindus.  Most of the chapters: on caste and marriage, on the Asian entrepreneur, on male/female relationships, on race relations, i.e. Asian relations with Africans and Europeans, and finally belief and religious systems---are full of opinions, anecdotal evidence, and trenchant remarks by the author.  I found that his interest in sexual matters seemed more than usual in a study of an ethnic community.  No doubt, this is an interesting book.  Is it an anthropological study ?  That remains a question.  We read many times that during his research period he gave a number of lectures on Hinduism or Indian religion in various East African cities.  Would that not have prejudiced considerably the answers he received to questions on religion ?  No mention of this.  In addition, I may add that Bharati loves diacritical remarks and technical vocabulary.  \\"Never use a common word if a bit of professional jargon is available\\" seems to be his motto.  God forbid that a single Sanskrit word be without the proper diacritical mark---even Greek words get their proper look.  If the same attention had been paid to anthropological practice and to the organization of data, this would have been a much better book.r own religious past, for certain hypocrisies, or for being too puritanical for his liking.  Playing the gadfly is all very well---perhaps his views were needed---but such tendencies do not make for a very coherent anthropological study.  Hypocrisy is hardly limited to Hindus.  Most of the chapters: on caste and marriage, on the Asian entrepreneur, on male/female relationships, on race relations, i.e. Asian relations with Africans and Europeans, and finally belief and religious systems---are full of opinions, anecdotal evidence, and trenchant remarks by the author.  I found that his interest in sexual matters seemed more than usual in a study of an ethnic community.  No doubt, this is an interesting book.  Is it an anthropological study ?  That remains a question.  We read many times that during his research period he gave a number of lectures on Hinduism or Indian religion in various East African cities.  Would that not have prejudiced considerably the answers he received to questions on religion ?  No mention of this.  In addition, I may add that Bharati loves diacritical remarks and technical vocabulary.  \\"Never use a common word if a bit of professional jargon is available\\" seems to be his motto.  God forbid that a single Sanskrit word be without the proper diacritical mark---even Greek words get their proper look.  If the same attention had been paid to anthropological practice and to the organization of data, this would have been a much better book.	2003-08-20
US	52761040	R30F2YSV3PFSTK	0813117038	430053371	Monterrey Is Ours!: The Mexican War Letters of Lieutenant Dana, 1845-1847	Books	4	5	5	N	N	marching around in Mexico, 1845-1847	When American troops crossed into Iraq in the spring of 2003, they rode in helicopters, Bradley vehicles, humvees, tanks, trucks, and other forms of motorized transport.  It's highly unlikely that a single marine was left to walk to Basra, much less Baghdad.  Some 158 years before, American forces invaded Mexico, after an artillery battle at Matamoros, down there on the Rio Grande.  At that time, there were only two choices: if you were an officer, you could ride a horse.  If you were a common soldier, you walked.  As the American army penetrated deeper and deeper into Mexico, the soldiers walked every step of the way, unless, overcome by sunstroke or dysentery, they were permitted to ride in the supply wagons that accompanied the invaders.  MONTERREY IS OURS ! is the saga of this endless marching as told by one Lieutenant Napoleon Jackson Tecumseh Dana ( I kid you not) in long letters to his wife, Sue, back in the States.  Unlike most of the officers, Lt. Dana walked with his men.  He had a gift for letter writing, describing the changing landscape, and the conditions among the army and in the various towns, haciendas, and villages he passed along the way.  As few soldiers must have written such extensive descriptions, and as most of those have long since disappeared, this (edited) volume of letters is a treasure trove, an eyewitness account of conditions and events in the U,S,-Mexican War of 1846-47.  Unlike wars today, most of that two year period saw little fighting, but lengthy maneuvering for position, preparations for attack or defence, and sieges.  It took months to bring an army from Texas to Monterrey, with only four or five days of battle in all that time.  The victorious American army then had to march from Monterrey to Tampico (unopposed, buying supplies from the Mexicans along the way), from which they sailed to Veracruz.  After a seige and the shelling of that city, the Americans landed, drove out the Mexican Army, and began its march to Mexico City.  At a place called Cerro Gordo, in a difficult battle, Lt. Dana was severely wounded while leading his men uphill.  His letters end there---he was sent home to recuperate.  He survived to fight and be wounded again in the Civil War, and eventually died at age 83 in 1905.<br />  For a person who is interested in a general history of the 1846-1847 war, this work may not be what you are looking for.  It is simply a very engrossing compilation of letters, showing the war from a single man's perspective.  As I said, that consists mainly of gruelling marches with bad food, not enough water, extreme heat or cold, and many health problems.  There is no allusion to diplomatic events or to what was going on on the Mexican side.  True to the standards of masculine behavior at the time, Lt. Dana hardly mentions his own problems, and his blatant racism produces some very ugly sentences.  That was also typical of the era.  As these were private letters, never meant for publication, we read of his financial difficulties and all the pent-up sexual feelings and suppressed emotions for his wife that he could pour only into these letters, which he seemed to write nearly every day.  There are good maps and excellent notes on nearly every person mentioned in the text.  All in all, this is a fascinating look at grassroots history, a glimpse into the mind of a soldier of another time and a reminder that war used to be mainly about marching.At a place called Cerro Gordo, in a difficult battle, Lt. Dana was severely wounded while leading his men uphill.  His letters end there---he was sent home to recuperate.  He survived to fight and be wounded again in the Civil War, and eventually died at age 83 in 1905.  <br />   For a person who is interested in a general history of the 1846-1847 war, this work may not be what you are looking for.  It is simply a very engrossing compilation of letters, showing the war from a single man's perspective.  As I said, that consists mainly of gruelling marches with bad food, not enough water, extreme heat or cold, and many health problems.  There is no allusion to diplomatic events or to what was going on on the Mexican side.  True to the standards of masculine behavior at the time, Lt. Dana hardly mentions his own problems, and his blatant racism produces some very ugly sentences.  That was also typical of the era.  As these were private letters, never meant for publication, we read of his financial difficulties and all the pent-up sexual feelings and suppressed emotions for his wife that he could pour only into these letters, which he seemed to write nearly every day.  There are good maps and excellent notes on nearly every person mentioned in the text.  All in all, this is a fascinating look at grassroots history, a glimpse into the mind of a soldier of another time and a reminder that war used to be mainly about marching.	2003-08-03
US	52761040	R54EGP86768LF	0829002804	459942892	K'UN Shen: A Taiwan Village (Case Studies in Cultural Anthropology)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	formulaic study of a Taiwan village	Another of the Holt, Reinhart, and Winston series entitled Case Studies in Cultural Anthropology, Diamond's study of a Taiwanese village in Tainan district dates from the 1960s.  If you are looking for a straight-out description of a Taiwanese fishing village at that time, you may find K'UN SHEN interesting.  There are many details that upcoming students of Taiwanese society would need to know.  The book, for non-specialists however, is like the \\"Whole Earth Catalogue of a Taiwan Village\\".  Though the author included ten references at the end, readers will not connect what they read with any other work on China or Taiwan, nor will they find out how Norma Diamond did her work nor how the villagers saw her.  These are criticisms from one era looking back on another, simpler time, I realize.  K'UN SHEN is a formulaic study for undergraduates of the 1960s, very competently done, which describes the village and its background, the economic base of village life, the life cycle, family/household/lineage, community structure, and religion.  There is certainly a lot packed into these 110 pages, but it remains dry and encyclopedic.  I can't fault the author's research and her style of presentation was no doubt dictated by the editors.  Still, unless you are planning to use this as a textbook for first year anthropology or a beginning course on Chinese culture in Taiwan, I recommend trying elsewhere. If you want an alternative see \\"History and Magical Power in a Chinese Community\\", by P. Steven Sangren or Margery Wolf's &quot;Women and the Family in Rural Taiwan&quot;.	2003-07-30
US	52761040	R2O90PV8UK0BLL	0829002782	332695518	Life in a Turkish Village	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Outdated view of an Anatolian village	Many long years ago, in my undergraduate days, I read Daniel Lerner's \\"The Passing of Traditional Society\\" for a course on modernization in the Third World.  He used \\"the grocer of Balgat\\" as a metaphor for that class of people in many countries who, aware of benefits and attractions of modern life, were still unable to partake of them.  They lived in villages where the majority of the people still adhered to completely traditional practices, or at least, what passed in everybody's mind as traditional.  Lerner's Turkish grocer (who lived not far outside Ankara)  was a product of the early 1950s.  With the spread of emigration, better roads and education systems, television, computers, and the upheavals of war and politics, everything has changed from Peru to Polynesia.  Turkey is certainly no exception to the rule.  Thus, a book like Pierce's LIFE IN A TURKISH VILLAGE, based on research done in the early 1960s, must be out of date as well.  There may be villages, more remote than Demirciler---the one studied here, some 100 km. southeast of Ankara---that still retain much of their traditional ways, but I would guess that for most students of anthropology, this book would be more of a historical study.  As is usual in the multitudinous volumes in the Holt, Reinhart and Winston series, Case Studies in Cultural Anthropology, this volume follows a format.  It is completely descriptive, filling out an unseen form to describe household and family life, work and technology, life cycle rituals, religion, beliefs about illness, etc.  There is no tie-in to any theory whatsoever, there are only five bibilographical references, and Pierce's book has an additional fault in my eyes.  That is, he varied from the format in order to cover all the material from the eyes of a fictional, composite individual, a boy named Mahmud.  Not a bad idea.  But in case you didn't like that, he covered all the same material again in a more detached way.  You get the same material twice.  This is not a successful gambit.  I think I would look elsewhere for a book on the anthropology of Turkey.t a successful gambit.  I think I would look elsewhere for a book on the anthropology of Turkey.	2003-07-30
US	52761040	R33BMT4A11I2LL	080707053X	907416006	Translated Woman: Crossing the Border with Esperanza	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Esperanza Shines, Ruth Reflects	Esperanza, a poor Mexican street peddlar, is befriended by Ruth, an American anthropologist with Cuban-Jewish roots during the course of Ruths fieldwork in Mexico.  They become friends, comadres, and Ruth decides to tell Esperanzas story.  Questions arise.  Why does Esperanza want to tell Ruth the whole story of her life ?  Why does Ruth decide to record it?  In what format will Ruth present that story so that North American readers can understand it ?  How will Ruth place that story into the framework of the anthropological profession or into the feminist discourse ?  Does she have to do that in a traditional way ?  Does Ruth have the right to Esperanza's story ?  Is she exploiting Esperanza, who, after all, can never come to the USA in person except, in the most unlikely of circumstances, as a servant ?  (Ruth can drive down to Mexico more or less at will.)  Yes, of course it is Ruth who poses all these questions and then answers them.<br />The result of these questions is a very interesting and iconoclastic book, which, though at times difficult to read, clearly raises many questions.  TRANSLATED WOMAN might be called the archetype of a modern anthropological creation because 1) the author does not hide behind the curtains, but places herself in the center along with the subject and 2)like current Anthropology as a field, it is so full of self-doubt, both personal and professional, that a reader perceives more questions than answers, the main one being, if Ruth were so full of guilt and indecision about the merits of such a study, why didnt she just drop it ?  I, for one, thought that if she felt it were wrong, then she shouldnt have continued, but if she did continue, then hand-wringing and meek self-castigating sentences were unnecessary.  Nearly every interaction in our world has either class, race, or sexual components.  Are we to refrain from communicating with all but our class, racial, or sexual doubles unless we worry that we are abusing some kind of power ?  Exploitation exists, many anthropologists have severely exploited their subjects (as have people of every kind) but it does not follow that all relationships across cultures, from rich to poor society, are therefore exploitative.  Common humanity is what counts the most between individuals.  The USA certainly exploits Mexico, but that does not make Ruth Behar an exploiter.  Collective guilt ?  I thought wed seen the end of that, at least in anthropological circles.  With a strong, independent woman like Esperanza, it is very unlikely she would have pursued the connection if she did not feel she also benefitted from it.  Ruth,however,persisted in swimming in the pool of uncertainty.  She faulted herself for driving to poor Mexquitic village in a new car and then worrying about possible damage.  She dressed inappropriately as she accompanied her comadre around the streets and bemoaned her incongruity.  She notes how intrusive her photography must have been, but she took the photos.  She shopped in expensive stores that her neighbors could never afford and then agonized.  Why ?  Either you drop the guilt or you dont do these things.  My guilty gringa thoughts indeed ! You have to be the person you can live with.  These are some things that irritated and puzzled me in what, nevertheless, is a fine book---more than that, a REALLY fine book, which translates autobiography into anthropology, anthropology into literature, and two strange women into friends.  I concluded that Ruth needed to grow up a little.<br />Esperanza tells her life story in her own words, as far as is humanly possible in the translation from Spanish to English.  Ruth is so determined to keep Esperanzas voice present (and I admire Ruth for this) that she allows some considerable repetition and confusion to remain and does not translate a large number of Spanish words.  In other sections, Ruth places Esperanzas story in the context of Mexican culture, relates it to the fascinating cult of Pancho Villa, and to the context of the anthropological discourse in general.  These chapters are very insightful, as are the sections in which Ruth talks about the nature of social science writing on Latin American women and of how North American feminists have tended to take control of feminist agenda in Third World countries, seeing women from those nations as sexually-constrained, ignorant, and controlled.  She writes. One of the limitations of North American feminism has been its narrow definition of the kind of knowledge and practice that can be counted as feminist.  Can I not speak of Esperanza as engaging in feminist thinking and practice in the way I have ?(p.297)<br />Esperanzas actions and beliefs are translated, not only into English, not only across the physical frontier, but into cultural terms that educated Americans can understand.  In other words, Ruth becomes an interpreter, and---typically for her---worries that she might become a Malinche (a betrayer of Indian people to the Conquistadores).  Finally, Ruth puts her own life into the picture, how she came to Anthropology, how she benefitted from her work, and her own ambivalence.  If you have read to this point, you realize that TRANSLATED WOMAN is a highly complex work which can be read for many different purposes, discussed in endlessly different ways.  One of the best anthropology books I have read in a long time, despite my criticism.  Read it.it to the fascinating cult of Pancho Villa, and to the context of the anthropological discourse in general.  These chapters are very insightful, as are the sections in which Ruth talks about the nature of social science writing on Latin American women and of how North American feminists have tended to take control of feminist agenda in Third World countries, seeing women from those nations as sexually-constrained, ignorant, and controlled.  She writes. One of the limitations of North American feminism has been its narrow definition of the kind of knowledge and practice that can be counted as feminist.  Can I not speak of Esperanza as engaging in feminist thinking and practice in the way I have ?(p.297)  <br />Esperanzas actions and beliefs are translated, not only into English, not only across the physical frontier, but into cultural terms that educated Americans can understand.  In other words, Ruth becomes an interpreter, and---typically for her---worries that she might become a Malinche (a betrayer of Indian people to the Conquistadores).  Finally, Ruth puts her own life into the picture, how she came to Anthropology, how she benefitted from her work, and her own ambivalence.   If you have read to this point, you realize that TRANSLATED WOMAN is a highly complex work which can be read for many different purposes, discussed in endlessly different ways.  One of the best anthropology books I have read in a long time, despite my criticism.  Read it.	2003-07-19
US	52761040	R1465LFGRSOQQJ	0815601514	231663547	Shahhat: An Egyptian (Contemporary Issues in the Middle East)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	closeup of peasant life in an ancient land	Richard Critchfield denied he was an anthropologist, claiming to be only a journalist, but his methods and his works prove otherwise.  Perhaps he did not tie his writing to any theoretical framework or to the body of existing anthropological studies, but this book, at least, lies right in the heart of what I think anthropology is supposed to be about, revealing the nature, the tone, the nuances of another society, giving us understanding of why other people act in other ways.  SHAHHAT is a penetrating study of the rhythms and contents of Egyptian village life in the 1970s.  The profound picture painted of the young peasant farmer, Shahhat, his mother, his uncle, and several other friends and relatives, can be compared to Oscar Lewis' studies in Mexico and Puerto Rico, the wonderful study of Iranian women done by Erika Friedl, Ruth Behar's \\"Translated Woman\\", and perhaps a few others.  Everything is covered;  work, family life, relations between the sexes, health and healing, religion, festivals, food, entertainment, economic relations, and the effects of development at the grassroots level.  Critchfield writes in a style half literary, half journalistic, with knowledge gleaned from living with the people concerned over a long period of time.  Whether his methods were \\"kosher\\" in terms of anthropological technique is hardly the question.  The book resounds with the truth, with the unexpected details that can only come from real life observation.  Village life is anything but idyllic-in Egypt, as in Mexico, India, on South Sea islands, and everywhere else, village life often consists of endless struggle and quarrels within and beyond the family.  Village life is unending hard work for small reward.  The description is presented more by the author than by the Egyptians, but he often has them speak, including conversations that resemble fiction more than university-inspired texts.<br />While the black and white photographs of the principal characters are fine, the book might have been improved with at least one map.  Beyond everything I have already said in praise of this excellent book, I would like to add one more comment.  In this day and age, it is common in certain quarters to tar Islam and Muslims, particularly Arabs, with one brush, a brush that paints them all as one, all fanatics, all thinking with one mind.  With some personal knowledge, I have long known that this is extremely far from the truth.  The world of Islam is as varied, if not even more varied, than the Western world.  There are so many realities, even within the Arab societies.  SHAHHAT brings to life just one of those realities, a world far, far removed from the austere pieties and rigidity of Wahhabi Saudi Arabia, but also equally far from urban Cairo, Istanbul or Jakarta.  It brings men and women to life, real men and women, not caricatures of some politician's or oil man's creation.  I liked this book deeply because it is a solid brick in the foundation of understanding that we, the human race, need so badly in these days.k might have been improved with at least one map.  Beyond everything I have already said in praise of this excellent book, I would like to add one more comment.  In this day and age, it is common in certain quarters to tar Islam and Muslims, particularly Arabs, with one brush, a brush that paints them all as one, all fanatics, all thinking with one mind.  With some personal knowledge, I have long known that this is extremely far from the truth.  The world of Islam is as varied, if not even more varied, than the Western world.  There are so many realities, even within the Arab societies.  SHAHHAT brings to life just one of those realities, a world far, far removed from the austere pieties and rigidity of Wahhabi Saudi Arabia, but also equally far from urban Cairo, Istanbul or Jakarta.  It brings men and women to life, real men and women, not caricatures of some politician's or oil man's creation.  I liked this book deeply because it is a solid brick in the foundation of understanding that we, the human race, need so badly in these days.	2003-07-15
US	52761040	R3M3YAKUN2YILX	0937321052	276300073	Women of Mongolia	Books	3	7	9	N	N	interesting but not informative	I enjoy books like this one.  Probably it's a bad case of nosiness, but I like to find out about other peoples' lives.  When such stories are combined with attractive black and white photos, well, that's all the better.  Martha Avery conducted interviews with a wide variety of Mongolian women, from street sweepers to ambassadors.  This book is the result.  You can find recipes for marmot, learn how to put up a ger, or yurt, or learn about the difficulties of doing paleo-anthropological studies in a poor country or what it was like to be the first female student sent to do higher studies in Russia.  Mongolia's economic struggles since the end of Soviet dominance are highlighted.  WOMEN OF MONGOLIA is clearly and simply written.  Perhaps therein lies my reluctance to award this book more than 3 stars.  Readers with little knowledge of Mongolia's past or present will not finish the book much the wiser, though the vignettes may arouse their curiosity.  The book might be described as \\"Mongolia Lite\\", pleasant but not highly-informative.  You get vivid impressions, but the interviews are not particularly complex, hard-hitting or deep.  Some respondents did open their personal lives to the author, however, she did not speak Mongolian, making the authenticity of the results somewhat murkier in the cases where the women did not speak English.  The reader finds nothing out about why Avery did these interviews or what her purpose in Mongolia was.  I believe she was there to help the Mongolian media begin to develop a life of its own and was employed by the Soros Foundation.  The book lacks a defined aim and reference to other works on the country.  \\"I am in Mongolia for other reasons.\\" is the very oblique single sentence about herself.  This statement resembles the only map---which is basically illegible---though she interviewed people all around the country and mentioned many provinces or geographical features.  This would be an attractive present for somebody interested in Mongolia, or just back from the country.  While stressing that this is a very attractive book for curious people like me, it is also rather superficial.ongolia, or just back from the country.  While stressing that this is a very attractive book for curious people like me, it is also rather superficial.	2003-07-08
US	52761040	R2RH2K68MBL2D0	007014477X	853219652	The Horizon concise history of Italy	Books	5	7	7	N	N	From Caves to the Common Market	Most of my readings in European History have been large in scope, covering periods rather than specific countries.  Thinking that I really did not have a good, continuous picture of Italian history---other than the rise and fall of the Roman Empire, some idea of the Renaissance, and then Garibaldi to Mussolini---I decided to remedy the situation with Cronin's volume.  I'm glad I did.  I found it excellently written in clear language without a huge number of kings, dates, and battles to wade through.  The continuity or discontinuity of Italian history is very well discussed and Cronin brings in social, economic, and cultural life often---not emphasizing purely the political as some older historians were wont to do.  The volume is profusely illustrated with pictures of the art and architecture of various periods.  While this is definitely a plus, I would have liked to sacrifice a few of these pictures for some more maps; there is only one general map of Italy in the front.  I was particularly impressed by the way the author covered Rome in about 50 pages.  That's obviously just a beginning, yet I found there many patterns and trends that had never been clear to me before.  Equally his coverage of the Dark Ages and the transition to City States and the Renaissance got right to the point.  He picked Florence as a model of how things developed in the Italian Renaissance and delved more into that city than the others, an effective method when you are describing 2,500 years of history in 217 pages.  The reasons for Italy's north-south divide became clear to me for the first time.  Finally, the twentieth century got short shrift.  The book really comes to an end around 1950.  Never mind.  For a person looking for a succinct book on Italian history, written in popular style, this is a good candidate.  I give it five stars because it is an excellent example of what it is meant to be--not the comprehensive, earth-shattering history of Italy, but a useful addition to a non-academic library.  I strongly recommend it.emic library.  I strongly recommend it.	2003-07-03
US	52761040	R2VXNM0C7RPC9E	187831808X	181676158	A Dot on the Map: Selected Stories and Poems	Books	3	0	0	N	N	all over the map	Sait Faik roamed around Istanbul and the islands in the Marmara Sea hobnobbing with fishermen, gamblers, priests, soldiers, clerks, prostitutes, sailors, and thieves.  He condemned nobody, empathized with everyone.  He smoke, he drank, he had lovers of both sexes, and he drank coffee in a thousand midnight cafes. Faik wrote down the words and conversations, the stories and the tragedies he heard all around him.  He was one of those individuals who HAD to write; writing was existence for him.  The stories in this volume, the first of his writings that I've ever seen, are never condescending.  At times they impart a certain Turkish flavor to an English-speaking reader, but as they seem to be mainly stories that rely on atmosphere more than plot, they cannot always succeed.  If you know Turkish, you should read these in the original.  Nineteen translators worked on the fifty stories found in A DOT ON THE MAP with mixed results.  People like me can only guess what Faik's work might be like, for, I fear, some of these translations are not the best.  However, I can say this.  Faik was not unique in his need to describe the lives and sagas of common men.  Many writers in many lands have felt the same.  But just because this passion exists doesn't mean that every story must be a success.  Sometimes, in writing as in photography, passion overflows, you take pen or camera in hand and produce a picture of-----your passion, not any definable subject.  This is how I felt about a large number of the stories in this volume.  That said, there are a few masterpieces in here, but you have to wade through some pretty ordinary stuff to find them.  Each story should hit a target, but a lot of these are all over the map.  On the other hand, the small selection of poetry at the end of the book is brilliant, even in English.  Perhaps Faik's feelings were better encapsulated in poems than in stories---poetry is so much more direct and yet capable of finer-tuned emotion at the same time.	2003-07-01
US	52761040	R2HUL1AYKXXJUK	0671692097	918255509	Tuturani: A Political Journey in the Pacific Islands	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Inside the South Pacific ?	Right from the start Westerners fell in love with the South Seas, or maybe it was the willing women, or maybe it was because after being cooped up on small ships for months on end with a bunch of guys, a balmy island of coconut palms, plentiful food, AND women was just too close to Paradise.  In any case, the \\"romance of the Islands\\" took root and has flourished for a couple centuries.  Like any romance, it may not be that close to reality.  Perhaps the Edward Said of the South Seas has yet to raise his (or her) voice, but if ever a region of the world was \\"constructed\\" by travel writers, governors, film makers, airlines and shipping firms, tourist bureaus, and stamp designers, it is the islands of the South Pacific.  Scott Malcolmson, a journalist from the USA, travelled around the region in the late 1980s with the specific aim of ignoring the popular, romantic myths and investigating the political facts.  Predictably, what he found was not all that edifying.  Skullduggery, chicanery, neocolonialism, (or in the case of the French, out and out colonialism) racism, environmental destruction, and incompetence in varying measures seemed to rule the roost.  What a surprise !<br />Malcolmson doesn't try to give a comprehensive tour of all the varied island nations of Micronesia, Melanesia and Polynesia, but sticks only to nine of them, of which four are the former American territories of Palau, Guam, Saipan, and the Marshall Islands.  Being American perhaps helped him there;  these are the best sections of the book where he discusses military and commercial exploitation of the four places.  America has shaped these islands to suit its own short range purposes, then left them to twist slowly in the wind, nuclear contamination mixed with junk food and unviable lifestyles.  The section on Kiribati is the weakest in the book and perhaps could have been left out.  In the other chapters, on Fiji, Vanuatu, New Caledonia, and French Polynesia, we get well-written reportage on the state of politics, the main issues, and a certain political mood.<br />What I liked about TUTURANI is that it avoids all romanticism, treats people in a down-to-earth manner, neither glorifying or denigrating them.  In short, the author succeeds in reaching his goal.  Yet, something is missing.  This is certainly one of that genre of books by expert journalists who visit unfamiliar territory where their skills in finding stories and getting interviews cannot quite compensate for lack of deeper knowledge of the place.  In short, I felt that TUTURANI is slightly superficial, even if at the same time sincere and honest.  The reader does not get any historical or cultural sense of place, though basic details are supplied.  The single sketchy map and the bibliography (at least he did supply one) also reflect my criticism.  While the book is one of the few of its kind---most serious books on the South Pacific being in History or Anthropology---it might also be seen as a modern \\"Inside the South Pacific\\", John Gunther style.  If that pleases you, you may enjoy TUTURANI, but it could also leave you unfulfilled.  I think Robert Trumbull's \\"Tin Roofs and Palm Trees\\" was a better book, but that came out in 1977 and so is quite out of date.  If you want a serious journalistic view of the region in the late '80s, this is it.e state of politics, the main issues, and a certain political mood.  <br />What I liked about TUTURANI is that it avoids all romanticism, treats people in a down-to-earth manner, neither glorifying or denigrating them.  In short, the author succeeds in reaching his goal.  Yet, something is missing.  This is certainly one of that genre of books by expert journalists who visit unfamiliar territory where their skills in finding stories and getting interviews cannot quite compensate for lack of deeper knowledge of the place.  In short, I felt that TUTURANI is slightly superficial, even if at the same time sincere and honest.  The reader does not get any historical or cultural sense of place, though basic details are supplied.  The single sketchy map and the bibliography (at least he did supply one) also reflect my criticism.  While the book is one of the few of its kind---most serious books on the South Pacific being in History or Anthropology---it might also be seen as a modern \\"Inside the South Pacific\\", John Gunther style.  If that pleases you, you may enjoy TUTURANI, but it could also leave you unfulfilled.  I think Robert Trumbull's \\"Tin Roofs and Palm Trees\\" was a better book, but that came out in 1977 and so is quite out of date.  If you want a serious journalistic view of the region in the late '80s, this is it.	2003-06-26
US	52761040	R2A1J0PRJ6KL5X	067973452X	286460989	Notes from Underground (Vintage Classics)	Books	5	101	115	N	N	A Slime of His Time	The first words of this deeply disturbing, but powerful, novel are \\"I am a sick man....I am a spiteful man.\\" and these may refer equally to the main character and to the author.  Dostoevsky has written an amazing portrait of a loner, whose introverted, sick thoughts spill out on the pages in demented brilliance.  The novel is a product of European cynicism, nihilism, and inertia, all of which reached a certain height in the paralyzed upper circles of 19th century Russia.  Nobody could write such a book without some personal acquaintance with the mean moods of this anti-hero.  The main character, who does nothing except hide from the world, is a total misfit, a loser in life at home, at work, and in love---a jerk, a dweeb, a dork, a geek in modern American parlance---yet through Dostoyevsky's clear prose, we see into his wounded soul.  \\"Actually, I hold no brief for suffering, nor am I arguing for well-being.\\" he writes, \\"I argue for...my own whim and the assurance of my right to it, if need be.\\"  He is apart from society, recognizes no social obligation. He argues that suffering is still better than mere consciousness, because it sharpens the awareness of your being, therefore suffering is in man's interest  Someone who can argue that is not going to write an average novel. This is in fact not an average novel at all, but a book concerned with the play of ideas, ideas that flash around like comets and meteorites inside Dostoevsky's head.  It can no more escape Dostoevsky's brain than a Woody Allen movie can escape Woody Allen.<br />The plot line of NOTES FROM UNDERGROUND is extremely slim.  It concerns an underground man, a man like a rat or a bug, who lives outside, or more likely, underneath the world's gaze.  It is a lonely, tortured life lived inside a single skull with almost no contacts with the rest of the world except for a vicious servant.  The \\"action\\" of the book comes only when the protagonist worms his way into a dinner with former schoolmates.  They don't want him, he despises all of them.  So, as you can imagine, a good time is had by all.  The underground man winds up in a brothel  with an innocent, hapless prostitute named Liza.  He wishes for some relationship, he immediately abhors the very thought of contact with another person.  The result is worse than you can predict, though I will say that it involves \\"the beneficial nature of insults and hatred\\".<br />In the tradition of novels of introspective self-hatred, Dostoevsky's has to be one of the first.  I wondered as I read how much Kafka owed him, for after all, the hero here is a cockroach too, only remaining in human form.  I realized how much Dostoevsky had influenced the Japanese writers of the 20th century---Tanizaki, Mishima, Soseki, Kawabata, and others.  The pages are brilliant, but full of vile stupidity, useless, arid intellectualism, hatred of one's best and love of one's worst qualities, withdrawal from life, and self-loathing.  A less American novel would be hard to imagine.  But, some of these characteristics are found in almost everyone at some point in their life, unpleasant as that realization may be.  I have to give NOTES FROM UNDERGROUND five stars, though I can't say I enjoyed it.  It is simply one of the most impressive novels ever written.don't want him, he despises all of them.  So, as you can imagine, a good time is had by all.  The underground man winds up in a brothel  with an innocent, hapless prostitute named Liza.  He wishes for some relationship, he immediately abhors the very thought of contact with another person.  The result is worse than you can predict, though I will say that it involves \\"the beneficial nature of insults and hatred\\".  <br />In the tradition of novels of introspective self-hatred, Dostoevsky's has to be one of the first.  I wondered as I read how much Kafka owed him, for after all, the hero here is a cockroach too, only remaining in human form.  I realized how much Dostoevsky had influenced the Japanese writers of the 20th century---Tanizaki, Mishima, Soseki, Kawabata, and others.  The pages are brilliant, but full of vile stupidity, useless, arid intellectualism, hatred of one's best and love of one's worst qualities, withdrawal from life, and self-loathing.  A less American novel would be hard to imagine.  But, some of these characteristics are found in almost everyone at some point in their life, unpleasant as that realization may be.   I have to give NOTES FROM UNDERGROUND five stars, though I can't say I enjoyed it.  It is simply one of the most impressive novels ever written.	2003-06-19
US	52761040	R23DDNA5YEQF6O	0374254044	853465556	Satan in Goray	Books	5	19	24	N	N	Literature as Anthropology	When times are desperate as they have been in many eras and many places, people tend to resort to desperate measures.  They cast their lot with prophets, dreamers, and seers who foretell a bright future--the coming of the millenium, it is often called----when all problems shall be solved, the rough made plain, the poor made rich, and sick shall be healed.  Movements develop.  They may die away in time or they may thrive and create great civilizations.  Western civilization, after all, is based on one such movement.  We generally refer to these movements as \\"cults\\", unless of course they are successful.  In many, but not all, millenial movements, people anticipate the immanent arrival of the New Age so strongly that they throw away their possessions and engage in dissolute behavior: singing, dancing, drinking, engaging in previously-forbidden sex, and so on.  Sometimes the \\"pure\\" remove themselves to isolated spots to await the end of the world or the Great Change, in extreme cases, they may even commit suicide.  Anthropologists have studied many such groups or religions; others are found in history books or newspapers.  Our times are not devoid of such groups: remember Jonestown, remember the Branch Davidians, remember that group that committed suicide in California.  China (the Taiping), Brazil (Antonio Conselheiro),, Papua New Guinea (the cargo cults), Africa (many studies), Burma, Europe---the list is nearly endless.  The Jews have not been immune either.  In the 1660s the famous \\"false Messiah\\" arose in Turkey, claiming to be ready to lead the Jews to Judgement Day and a new era.  Throughout eastern Europe hope sprang up, especially in the Polish-Ukrainian regions devasted by the murderous Bogdan Chmielnitski not long before.<br />Written as a novel, with lively, colorful characters, Singer describes perfectly the course of such a millenial movement in Goray, an isolated Polish village.  Whether you are interested in literature or anthropology, this is a description you cannot afford to miss.  We follow the rise and fall of a local cult leader, a prophetess, and the feverish hopes of the Jews, longing for deliverance from \\"singing King Alpha's song in a strange land\\".  Amidst strange marriages, the breaking of all the strict laws of kashrut, and the wild visions of prophecy, Goray's hopes soar and crash. If you think that the rise of post-Holocaust, post-pogrom Israel is just politics and has nothing to do with any sort of millenarianism, then you should read this wonderful book and reconsider.  Powerful language, dark, dreadful images full of demons and damnation only possible from a master like Singer show the strength of the ancient dream of Israel.  The tragedy is, of course, that in modern times the dream was realized at somebody else's expense.  Reading Abdelrahman Munif's \\"Cities of Salt\\", in conjunction with Singer's book would not be a bad idea. It illustrates the world on which such dreams impacted.  SATAN IN GORAY is a wonderful book of literature, anthropology, and history from which great understanding may flow.  The world needs this understanding.iption you cannot afford to miss.  We follow the rise and fall of a local cult leader, a prophetess, and the feverish hopes of the Jews, longing for deliverance from \\"singing King Alpha's song in a strange land\\".  Amidst strange marriages, the breaking of all the strict laws of kashrut, and the wild visions of prophecy, Goray's hopes soar and crash. If you think that the rise of post-Holocaust, post-pogrom Israel is just politics and has nothing to do with any sort of millenarianism, then you should read this wonderful book and reconsider.  Powerful language, dark, dreadful images full of demons and damnation only possible from a master like Singer show the strength of the ancient dream of Israel.  The tragedy is, of course, that in modern times the dream was realized at somebody else's expense.  Reading Abdelrahman Munif's \\"Cities of Salt\\", in conjunction with Singer's book would not be a bad idea. It illustrates the world on which such dreams impacted.  SATAN IN GORAY is a wonderful book of literature, anthropology, and history from which great understanding may flow.  The world needs this understanding.	2003-06-12
US	52761040	R32OOJHY8CHKM	0192839403	178626109	The Vicar of Wakefield: A Tale (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	2	3	12	N	N	Super-Pollyanna Rev Rides Lifes Roller Coaster	The Vicar is imprisoned for debt, lying on a bed of straw in a damp jail cell in 18th century England.  His elder daughter has died of grief after having been tricked, seduced, and discarded by a Villain.  His son, in the navy, has been dragged to jail in chains for trying to fight a duel, his other children and wife are starving, his house has burned down and the Vicar's arm severely burnt.  Now, let's see----what else can we pile on here ?  Oh, yes, another daughter has been kidnapped by ruffians.  What should he do ?  How about delivering a sermon on happiness and the benign nature of Providence to his fellow convicts ?  This dude is wildly nave and over-the-top optimistic or I'm a monkey's uncle !!  If fantastic coincidences and deus ex machina moments are your bag, you are going to love THE VICAR OF WAKEFIELD.  If you are also a \\"phan of philosophy\\", then you may thrill to this 18th century version of the Perils of Pauline salted through with sincere observations on Life and generously long moral soliloquies.  There are earnest lectures on capital punishment and the virtues of monarchy.  The benefits to society of everyone's remaining in their place are also touted.  But honestly, for 21st century readers, THE VICAR OF WAKEFIELD is not a novel to admire in a literary sense. The characters lack depth or subtlety; many move across the stage like puppets. I understand that as an 18th century work, it is of interest to scholars and students of English literature or maybe, literary history in general.  For them, Goldsmith's novel may deserve more stars---you may, indeed, enjoy the English language usages of 250 years ago.  But as a literary work, in comparison with all that is available to us now, no, I don't think it deserves more.  You can learn about conditions and ways of thought at the time by reading the book and it may indeed show the indestructability of the human spirit (as the Afterword in my edition suggested).  However, large numbers of other writers have shown the same thing, only they have done it better.ve shown the same thing, only they have done it better.	2003-06-06
US	52761040	R1UO20UMAFBNGH	0380762404	459987500	The Emperor of the Amazon (English and Portuguese Edition)	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Boozer, Broads & Buddies Win, Lose Amazon Fiefdom	Texas is not the only place carved out of another country by more aggressive settlers far from any capital city.  Marcio Souza's tale of the \\"Empire of Acre\\", created by Brazilian filibusters in a remote part of northern Bolivia in the Amazon basin, may or may not have much to do with Texan history, but the idea is at least similar.  THE EMPEROR OF THE AMAZON relates the picaresque adventures of a Spanish vagabond in the literary style of the 19th century popular press, which was also sometimes the style of Brazilian author J.M. Machado de Assis, who was a much better writer.  A crew of drunks, actors, nuns, diplomats, whores, and fantastic personalities---for example, a male-genitalia-collecting English gentleman who believes that the Manaus opera house was set down on Earth by aliens---careen about the vast jungles of the Amazon, using the rivers as highways, hoping to strike it rich by exploiting the rubber resources available there at the end of the 19th century.  The land is only there to be exploited, workers only pawns in their ambition.  After endless sexual and alcoholic escapades, they overthrow the Bolivian officials in Acre and establish a (short-lived) Empire.<br />This was the first novel by Marcio Souza, who has subsequently published a number of others, none of which I've read.  Though I may say that THE EMPEROR OF THE AMAZON is an extremely youthful novel, with a lot of sex and wry humor, it is certainly well-written, once you begin to see the point, which is to satirize the wastefully extravagant, parasitic society of the Amazon then, and the pretensions of Brazilian society in the 1970s when Souza wrote.  I believe the author encountered some political difficulties after the book was published.  At least, I bet he had a good time writing it.  You will enjoy it, even if the messages are more or less drowned in hi-jinks.	2003-06-04
US	52761040	R1XXKBF25EDY56	0553212141	512522537	Heart of Darkness and The Secret Sharer (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	New Skipper Saves Swimmer, Shows Moxie	REVIEW OF THE SECRET SHARER<br />Joseph Conrad wrote a number of classic novels.  This is one of them.  Like some sort of literary health tonic packed full of vitamins, minerals, and health-restoring properties, , THE SECRET SHARER contains enough symbolism, ideas, and plot to keep analysts busy for centuries.  It is full of sea lore, the nature of flat, tropic seas.  It is hard to find an original thing to say in review, so much has been already written.  The author operated at three levels.  He wrote an adventure story about an escaping murderer who \\"didn't mean to do it\\".  The narrator, a sea captain on his first command, discovers Legatt, the murderer, in the sea beside his (the captain's) ship, saves him, hides him, and sympathizes with his predicament.  They had gone to the same school in Britain, but did not know each other.  Legatt's rescuer engages in all kinds of schemes and dissembling to prevent his discovery.  Finally, the narrator-captain orders his ship off course, risks running aground, but helps Legatt to escape to a jungled Southeast Asian island.  On a second level, Conrad makes the reader weigh the rights and wrongs of these actions.  Such behavior-hiding a wanted man---is totally contrary to what is expected of a ship's captain; thus a terrible conflict is introduced into the story at once.  Conrad introduces many pros and cons---Legatt did save his ship in a storm and committed the murder while doing so.  He was given his seaman's job through pull, though, not through skill, and so, perhaps, was not equal to the captain, who had worked his way up.  We have to consider the narrator-captain too, he lies, he behaves in a tricky fashion, and his subsequent erratic behavior undermines the confidence of his men.<br /><br />Above all, THE SECRET SHARER, at 61 pages, one of the shortest great novels, is a psychological masterpiece.  I am hardly the first to note that in fact, the two main characters, the honorable criminal and the criminal honorable man, may be one and the same.  Legatt may be the narrator's alter-ego, the embodiment of his fears about his first command, guiding a ship through treacherous seas, commanding men he does not know.  When Legatt jumps into the sea near Koh-ring, the captain realizes that he will be able to successfully command a ship.  Legatt may be the captain's subconscious fears come to life, but the latter must hide the escapee as he must hide his fears.  You may say that this novel is very cleverly constructed, or else Conrad touched his own subconscious in ways few writers ever have.  In either case, it is a work of genius.man, may be one and the same.  Legatt may be the narrator's alter-ego, the embodiment of his fears about his first command, guiding a ship through treacherous seas, commanding men he does not know.  When Legatt jumps into the sea near Koh-ring, the captain realizes that he will be able to successfully command a ship.  Legatt may be the captain's subconscious fears come to life, but the latter must hide the escapee as he must hide his fears.  You may say that this novel is very cleverly constructed, or else Conrad touched his own subconscious in ways few writers ever have.  In either case, it is a work of genius.	2003-05-22
US	52761040	R2N8BZH4AMG0BU	0374525862	819973168	The Magic Barrel: Stories	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Notes on a (Narrow) Slice of Life	So who could say that Bernard Malamud didn't write well ?  Not me.  He writes very well indeed.  These 13 stories, mainly about first-generation Jewish immigrants in America, but also about visitors to Italy from America, capture so much of life in  a society where one is an outsider---that feeling of \\"being here but not here\\", or of living in a country, but not belonging.  The wasted ex-coffee salesman, the harassed landlord, the loner rabbinical student, they all seem to pulsate with failure, with uncertainty, and fatal mistakes.  Ah, this is a book about life all right, but it's a book in which the vision is almost tunnel vision.  Every single story, without exception, deals with people who cannot rise to their own imaginations of themselves.  They meet frustration, failure, death or disappointment, they are deflected from any purpose they might have once had.  They are melancholy shades of fruitless endeavor.  Does even one reach his ambition ?  (They are all male.)  No, the student doesn't find a house in Rome, the would-be art critic abandons his research, the would-be lover lies about his Jewish origins and loses the beautiful girl, the buyer on credit never pays back, the so-called reader never reads, the shoemaker allows his daughter to marry an unsuitable man.  Only once, after humiliating an angel to tears, does an old man admit his mistake and save his wife from death, and this occurs in the only fantasy among the thirteen.  Most of the characters lose, their labors come to naught, they grow wiser, but sadder.  I would assume that Malamud himself felt an outsider everywhere, comfortable nowhere.  If that is not true, his dreams must have been filled with worry, because this is a most melancholy collection.  Does anyone smile ?  Does anyone laugh ?  Does anyone dash down the street radiant with love ?  No.  Life is full of personal shortcomings, a bald spot, a stubborn rejection of family, an inability to swim or make money.  Frustration and lies run rampant--people certainly do shoot themselves in the foot again and again.  Life is a tragedy, life always ends in disappointment-these are truths told in half the literature of the world, but there is more to our humble existence than that.  Even when Malamud writes a humorous story, it is filled with underlying doubt in human nature, concentrating on the tendency of people to try to be what they are not.  If you want thirteen superb stories to illustrate that sad point of view, here they are.  If you think life is more of a mixed bag, then perhaps this book will only depress you.ant--people certainly do shoot themselves in the foot again and again.  Life is a tragedy, life always ends in disappointment-these are truths told in half the literature of the world, but there is more to our humble existence than that.  Even when Malamud writes a humorous story, it is filled with underlying doubt in human nature, concentrating on the tendency of people to try to be what they are not.  If you want thirteen superb stories to illustrate that sad point of view, here they are.  If you think life is more of a mixed bag, then perhaps this book will only depress you.	2003-04-23
US	52761040	R1F2YYSVPQ1WRC	050023289X	405233435	The Arts of Ancient Georgia	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Great illustrations-----wooden text	Georgia may be famous in the former Soviet Union as a land of wine, poets, filmmakers, and beautiful scenery.  Some Georgian words seem to have circulated among all the republics of that now-vanished empire---tamada, Kinzmarauli, chacha, khachapuri, and so on, but outside that Soviet world, few people know much at all about Georgia.  Certainly English-language books on the country are far and few between.  In all my life, I've only ever seen one coffee table book on Georgian art and architecture.  I found it in a most unlikely place---a weekly country fair on the forested outskirts of Melbourne, Australia---and I traded an original photograph for it.  This is it, THE ARTS OF ANCIENT GEORGIA, published in the 1970s with a foreword by the doyen of Georgian studies in the Anglophone world, David Marshall Lang, and with a large number of most excellent photographs by Rolf Schrade.  If you are interested in Georgia or its arts, I believe this book is a must.  It is thorough, it is incredibly detailed, and very well-organized.  It is a book for professionals, for art historians, or for those wanting an extremely painstaking description of Georgian architectural treasures.<br />Before you rush right out and buy it, let me add one more thing.  I don't know if the original were written in Georgian or Russian, but it was translated into German, and this book is the English translation of that !  If you think that might make for a wooden style, you are right.  Reading this text is like swimming with your boots on.  Not only that, but the authors had to toe the line of political correctness then prevalent in the USSR.  That meant looking at the world through spectacles of social Darwinism and Marxist-Leninist theory.  Phrases such as \\"levels of development\\", \\"standards of achievement\\" and \\"progress made by the Georgian people...in the development of cultural life in their country\\" pepper the text---all kinds of terminology that implies a hierarchy of cultures in the world (with Europe no doubt at the top).  The endpiece map has no boundaries of any kind on it to avoid stimulating the kind of ethnic nastiness that sprang up after 1991.  If you want an example of both wooden language and Soviet vocabulary, here is a quote from p.47  \\"Certain variations emerge in the historical development of these installations [fortifications] which were determined by the particular features of  individual stages in the evolution of the feudal system.\\"  If you can hack a lot more of this, you are ready to read THE ARTS OF ANCIENT GEORGIA.  Otherwise, look at the pictures and use it as a reference book.  You won't be sorry.<br />P.S.  The two authors' names are mixed up on the Amazon.com page.Europe no doubt at the top).  The endpiece map has no boundaries of any kind on it to avoid stimulating the kind of ethnic nastiness that sprang up after 1991.  If you want an example of both wooden language and Soviet vocabulary, here is a quote from p.47  \\"Certain variations emerge in the historical development of these installations [fortifications] which were determined by the particular features of  individual stages in the evolution of the feudal system.\\"  If you can hack a lot more of this, you are ready to read THE ARTS OF ANCIENT GEORGIA.  Otherwise, look at the pictures and use it as a reference book.  You won't be sorry.<br />P.S.  The two authors' names are mixed up on the Amazon.com page.	2003-04-18
US	52761040	R2KWLBJYG8NIPY	0816608504	139905679	001: Foundations of the Portuguese Empire, 1415-1580 (Europe and the World in the Age of Expansion, vol. I)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Caravels and Kings: the Portuguese in Africa and Asia	If Christopher Bells Portugal and the Quest for the Indies is written as popular history, in an adventurous style, and if C.R. Boxers masterpiece, The Portuguese Seaborne Empire excels in synthesis and displays a breathtaking grasp of world history, then Diffie and Winius have produced a 435 page history by the numbers---a methodical, step-by-step story of how Portugal began to explore the Atlantic coasts of Africa, how it outmaneuvered its rivals, settled Madeira and the Azores, and developed a system of trade and control that lasted over a century before succumbing to more powerful, better organized rivals and to the consequences of a small nations being overextended.  Puncturing the various balloons of myth and legend, the authors down-to-earth, but highly detailed approach to the history of Portuguese exploration and penetration of the trading world of the Indian Ocean and the Far East is an extremely useful and interesting volume, probably required reading for students in the field.  FOUNDATIONS OF THE PORTUGUESE EMPIRE sticks to the period 1415-1580, at which later date, Portugal entered into a sixty year period of absorption by Spain. (Note: the title as listed on Amazon is incorrect.)<br />  The strong point about this book is the documentation, so useful for further research or inquiry.  Footnotes have been placed at the bottom of the page, not in the text, thereby allowing smooth reading for people like me, who are unlikely to need to know the exact sources.  There are some good maps and a section of illustrations.  Not only are the voyages and battles in the East covered, but the authors also keep track of what was going on back in Portugal; the royal follies, the intrigues and battles with Spain, the rivalries among the Italian city states, the fruitless attempt to conquer Morocco, and the energetic trade with the Flemish ports to the north.  We learn how the Portuguese got their information and see how, though mercantile reasons seemed to be by far the strongest motivation for their exploits, they often made huge sacrifices for reasons of faith too.  From Ethiopia to Japan, from Persia to the Moluccas, soldiers, traders, and priests spent their lives in the quest for riches and in (mostly vain) efforts to save souls.  The authors point out that the Portuguese domination of trade in the Indian Ocean during the period under discussion was no accident.  Rather, it was the result of a geopolitical plan to strangle Muslim trade, and control trade routes through strategically placed forts (Sofala, Mombasa, Ormuz, Goa, Malacca, etc.) and a strong fleet.  Rivalries among Portuguese commanders in the East, as well as the Portuguese kings distrust of his far-flung lieutenants, led to many a disaster, but time and time again, Portuguese naval power and unbelievable bellicosity overcame huge odds.  The last chapter of the book, entitled The Balance Sheet, tries to decide whether the whole thing paid off---if in fact, aside from individual fortunes made, Portugal benefitted from its explorations and conquests.<br />  The weakest point in FOUNDATIONS OF THE PORTUGUESE EMPIRE is that the authors seem far more comfortable and authoritative when dealing with Europe, with the Portuguese side of the story.  When, on a few occasions, they attempt to describe Asian societies, their explanations are weak.  Some errors creep in.  They hardly mention any African societies at allthe Africans are acted upon, never actors.  For an extremely thorough story of Portuguese methods of expansion and economic domination, however, I would recommend Diffie and Winius work to every interested reader.reasons seemed to be by far the strongest motivation for their exploits, they often made huge sacrifices for reasons of faith too.  From Ethiopia to Japan, from Persia to the Moluccas, soldiers, traders, and priests spent their lives in the quest for riches and in (mostly vain) efforts to save souls.  The authors point out that the Portuguese domination of trade in the Indian Ocean during the period under discussion was no accident.  Rather, it was the result of a geopolitical plan to strangle Muslim trade, and control trade routes through strategically placed forts (Sofala, Mombasa, Ormuz, Goa, Malacca, etc.) and a strong fleet.  Rivalries among Portuguese commanders in the East, as well as the Portuguese kings distrust of his far-flung lieutenants, led to many a disaster, but time and time again, Portuguese naval power and unbelievable bellicosity overcame huge odds.  The last chapter of the book, entitled The Balance Sheet, tries to decide whether the whole thing paid off---if in fact, aside from individual fortunes made, Portugal benefitted from its explorations and conquests.  <br />   The weakest point in FOUNDATIONS OF THE PORTUGUESE EMPIRE is that the authors seem far more comfortable and authoritative when dealing with Europe, with the Portuguese side of the story.  When, on a few occasions, they attempt to describe Asian societies, their explanations are weak.  Some errors creep in.  They hardly mention any African societies at allthe Africans are acted upon, never actors.  For an extremely thorough story of Portuguese methods of expansion and economic domination, however, I would recommend Diffie and Winius work to every interested reader.	2003-04-12
US	52761040	R2NXRGH1DZ25YZ	0824826094	504683490	Village on the Edge: Changing Times in Papua New Guinea	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Dispela buk em i tok tru	After almost a century of modern-style research, the world is not exactly short of ethnographies.  You can find works on everybody from Indiana town dwellers to Sri Lankan fishermen.  Papua New Guinea, as an area where a wide variety of cultures, some with Stone Age technologies, endured well into the 20th century, attracted the attention of anthropologists right from the start.  There are a very large number of books on the country, starting with Malinowskis seminal works on the Trobriand Islands during and after WW I.  Most, but not all, of them concentrated on investigations of what are often referred to as traditional cultures, if not primitive.  Anthropologists, not unlike Western tourists, have often been lured by the exotic parts of the world where cultures extremely different from their own could be found. Bateson, Burridge, Glasse, Heider, Hogbin, Mead, Pospisil, Rappaport,  Reay, Schieffelin, and Wagner to name a few, gravitated to Papua New Guinea, drawn perhaps by the chance to study people whose cultures were untouched by the West.  Untouched is no doubt a relative word.  A few others, especially Lawrence and Worsley, delved into the cargo cults, an aspect of Melanesian religion that sprang up in the wake of colonial pressures on traditional beliefs.  Modern Papua New Guinea, with its Christianity, bureaucracy, development projects, education, corruption, urban crime, and population explosion, has not received so much attention.  Until now.  Michael French Smiths VILLAGE ON THE EDGE is a delightful new ethnography based on work in the same village in the mid-1970s and then in the late 90s.  Based on the idea of observing change, because Kragur village, on Kairiru island, off the north coast of the country, has been changing rapidly for many decades, Smith succeeds brilliantly.  To my taste, he strikes just the right note between popular writing and professional investigation.  In a clear, jargon-less style, he covers many areas usually found in ethnographies, such as village structure, family structure, the economic and political system, and religious beliefs, but focusses on how all these things have changed.  It is a down-to-earth, non-exotic picture of present dilemmas for the Kragur villagers who still, after over twenty years of independence, remain poised between a sharing, cooperative society based on personal ties and the money-based, more individualistic one introduced as a correct model by the West and emulated by educated, town-dwelling locals.  Smith puts himself into the picture, admits to his predilections and difficulties.  Refreshingly, he does not hide behind some false objectivity, but shows how he accepted certain privileges (and dealt with some problems) that came with being a whiteman.  This honesty, coupled with a sense of humor and nice introduction of the flavor of Pidgin English or Tok Pisin, a national language in the country, made the book all the more appealing.<br />Melanesian societies often believed that knowledge-of magic or ritual-held the key to success in any endeavor, would be the best guarantee of prosperity.  Those who had the best knowledge grew the best crops, caught the most fish, or had the most successful trading relationships.  But, if many people in the village had that knowledge, then the whole village would be prosperous and successful.  Thus, Kragur villagers, like most Melanesians, saw Western education as the way to go if they wanted to raise their standard of living, to obtain money and an easier life.  Get Western education, prosper like the Westerners.  In a way, Smith points out in the heart of the book, they have been proven right, but the results challenge the whole belief system that underlay their society.  For them, if individuals prosper, but the village does not, the new knowledge has failed to produce the desired result.  But as time goes by, as more individuals prosper, will not the old ideals completely fade, will not the old cooperative society vanish ?  The village is on the edge.<br />I urge everyone interested in knowing what Papua New Guinea is like today to read this book.  It should be on every reading list dealing with the modern Pacific, modern Melanesia, or dilemmas of development.  If you are trying to attract students to the field of anthropology or to draw their attention to the process of writing ethnographies, you can hardly go wrong with VILLAGE ON THE EDGE.completely fade, will not the old cooperative society vanish ?  The village is on the edge.  <br />I urge everyone interested in knowing what Papua New Guinea is like today to read this book.  It should be on every reading list dealing with the modern Pacific, modern Melanesia, or dilemmas of development.  If you are trying to attract students to the field of anthropology or to draw their attention to the process of writing ethnographies, you can hardly go wrong with VILLAGE ON THE EDGE.	2003-03-14
US	52761040	R38EE7DJ84RWIB	0060932139	104524934	The Unbearable Lightness of Being	Books	5	291	309	N	N	Is Love the Anchor  of  Uncertainty's Ship ?	This is either a book of philosophy masquerading as a novel, or a novel about the lives of four or five characters with pretensions to be a book of philosophy.  Either way, it's an amazing work.  Since it is well-known and no doubt, well-reviewed, I might not be able to say anything new here.  Kundera deals with his characters in a rather sketchy way, using them to pose a number of questions, rather than to go into great psychological depth.  Yet, even there, the characters Tomas and Tereza do come through well.  Their moods and motivations, even their dreams, hold a reader's attention.  A couple of the others, Sabina and Franz, maybe Franz' wife, are very light indeed.  Kundera is interested in sex and love, in the fact that they tie people down, in the fact that they are so fickle, so gosssamer light, yet so important.  In a time when ideology and/or political oppression create craziness or stupidity and the common sense of daily life is overthrown---as in post-1968 Czechoslovakia and maybe pre-Gulf War II America---love and sex are more or less what is left for people to hang on to.  Kundera also ponders the choices that people make, and the extremely haphazard way these choices come about, based perhaps on endless strings of coincidence.<br />This is not a novel long on plot.  Rather it is a vehicle for some very intelligent musings.  When living under oppressive rulers \\"is it better to shout and thereby hasten the end, or to keep silent and gain thereby a slower death ?\\" What is the nature of love ?  Have you ever read the philosophy of excrement or kitsch ?  You can find them here.  Man is a cow parasite, he tells us, (though he's probably talking about a certain percent of humanity only) and goes on to say that attitude towards animals is a fundamental moral test of Man.  We've failed.  As you live, you write the story of your life.  You don't get the chance to \\"write\\" an alternative story; there are no comparisons for you.  History is the same, he says, as light as individual human life.  There is no possibility of comparison of chances either in history or life. These are only a small sample of the interesting thoughts and ideas Kundera mulls over.  If that sort of book is your bag, you're going to love this one.  The choice you make by reading it, may evolve into something completely different in your life, have totally different repercussions sooner or later.  Will you recognize that ?  After all, each book of any consequence you read leaves an imprint.  THE UNBEARABLE LIGHTNESS OF BEING will definitely do so.light as individual human life.  There is no possibility of comparison of chances either in history or life. These are only a small sample of the interesting thoughts and ideas Kundera mulls over.  If that sort of book is your bag, you're going to love this one.  The choice you make by reading it, may evolve into something completely different in your life, have totally different repercussions sooner or later.  Will you recognize that ?  After all, each book of any consequence you read leaves an imprint.  THE UNBEARABLE LIGHTNESS OF BEING will definitely do so.	2003-03-08
US	52761040	R25ZNWW95Y3OEM	0060997028	542955149	Life Is Elsewhere	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Nerdy Wordsmith Rats On Flame, Conks Out Young	Fidel Castro and his bearded men charged down out of the Sierra Maestra and paraded victorious through the streets of Havana to delirious cheers of adoring crowds.  Mao Tsetung arrived with his vast armies at Beijing and declared that \\"China had stood up\\".  The `Internationale' played and a brave new world began.  We dreamed we would change the world as youths, we might die for a great cause, we yelled at barricades (of whatever material-or perhaps they were intangible) and loved with the passions of the times.  Repression of anybody (except \\"the exploiters\\") never appeared on the cards, no, it was freedom in the air.  Hasn't this atmosphere repeated itself time and time again, across the globe ?  And there's always a poet or two to inscribe glorious verses on the stones of History.  Byron, Mayakovsky, Rimbaud, Marti, Rizal.  But what if `the Revolution' ushers in a period of less freedom, greater oppression, and wider stupidity that leads to mass fatalities ?  Then what kind of poet would you need ?  Well, what kind do you get ?  Artists who paint girl + tractor.  Novelists who write books called \\"Cement\\".  And poets like Jaromil, the subject of this great novel.  Fidel called the people who fled the new Cuba \\"gusanos\\" or worms.  Reading Kundera's novel about Czechoslovakia, you feel strongly that the gusanos remained and cooperated, wrote poetry in praise of the unpraise-able.  Or, maybe there's a global glut of gusanos.  Maybe a gusano poet is about as necessary as wings on a turtle.<br />OK, this novel is a fictional biography of a very weedy mama's boy who remains nave, protected and innocent despite everything that happens around him, even the death of his father in a concentration camp.  The world around the main characters, the society at large, remain pale and nearly invisible.  He (and we) really see nobody except his mother---his loves are extensions of his ego, his poetry or paintings the same.  Dreams and fantasy are his stock in trade, his alter-ego jumps in and out of beds, while Jaromil stews.  All is self-absorption.  In modern America, the poet would be called a \\"dweeb\\".  We have to laugh at Jaromil or scorn him.  LIFE IS ELSEWHERE is a satire that concentrates on unpleasant aspects of the human condition so well that you cringe time and time again.  Kundera spares no one, not his main character and certainly not his readers.  Jaromil is surrounded, as the author says, with a wall of mirrors, and cannot see beyond.  We look into our own mirrors as we read.  It's doubtful that we admire the reflections.  The basic themes are human nature, art and literature in society, and the sad tribulations of a small nation.  Kundera, like Brazil's Machado de Assis, cuts his books up into extremely small chapters, which is an effective tool in expert hands.  Each one makes a point, introduces an irony, or engages in new soul-searching.  The plot of LIFE IS ELSEWHERE is minor;  it is the process of writing and thinking about the issues that counts.  Ah, well, readers, I'm not giving anything away to say that the message here is that people who fail to live life to the fullest always pine for some far away paradise where great deeds would be accomplished effortlessly, and imagine that \\"life is elsewhere\\".  These deluded ones are capable of the dirtiest deeds.  Oh, yeah, this is a good book.jumps in and out of beds, while Jaromil stews.  All is self-absorption.  In modern America, the poet would be called a \\"dweeb\\".  We have to laugh at Jaromil or scorn him.  LIFE IS ELSEWHERE is a satire that concentrates on unpleasant aspects of the human condition so well that you cringe time and time again.  Kundera spares no one, not his main character and certainly not his readers.  Jaromil is surrounded, as the author says, with a wall of mirrors, and cannot see beyond.  We look into our own mirrors as we read.  It's doubtful that we admire the reflections.  The basic themes are human nature, art and literature in society, and the sad tribulations of a small nation.  Kundera, like Brazil's Machado de Assis, cuts his books up into extremely small chapters, which is an effective tool in expert hands.  Each one makes a point, introduces an irony, or engages in new soul-searching.  The plot of LIFE IS ELSEWHERE is minor;  it is the process of writing and thinking about the issues that counts.  Ah, well, readers, I'm not giving anything away to say that the message here is that people who fail to live life to the fullest always pine for some far away paradise where great deeds would be accomplished effortlessly, and imagine that \\"life is elsewhere\\".  These deluded ones are capable of the dirtiest deeds.  Oh, yeah, this is a good book.	2003-02-25
US	52761040	R3RN337THS11CF	0060997036	200558803	Laughable Loves	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Love is a Many-Kunderaed Thing	\\"We pass through the present with our eyes blindfolded.\\" says Kundera.  Most of the characters in this collection of seven great stories are blind in one way or another.  If they happen to be wise, they turn out, after all, to be unbearably light, chasing after women, embracing men, for no purpose whatsoever other than that is what they seem destined to do.  Their perspectives on themselves are often pitifully unrealistic, hence the stories tend to center around misunderstandings.  The men can't break the habit of \\"continuing conquest\\".  The women seem remarkably prone to give in.  Even when the men are happily married, the chase still beckons.  With great humor and wit, with a lot of philosophical depth, Kundera traces the mentality of various Czechs in different walks of life in the 1960s through the medium of their sometimes tawdry love life.  Tales of would-be conquests turn out to be critiques of society, questions about the meaning of life, or witty perspectives on the old theme of youth vs. age.  Great Romeos turn out to be duds, burnt-out old flames can be lit again.  Eroticism is not what it is cracked up to be, but sometimes it's more than we expect.  Great stuff.<br />Maybe it's a special Czech style of writing about love, maybe it's that wry, ironic humor found in Hasek and Skvorecky that I've always liked, but Kundera's characters lack the aggression, material concerns, or passion for commitment found in American novels as well as lacking the love of style found in the French.  They are simply average people with limitless libido.  So are they average ?  That one is up to you.  In a story about how desire for a girl makes a young man invent a religious fervor, then defend it to the local Party committee, winding up in bed with his boss, who is supposed to purge him of religion, Kundera turns away from the plot to write....\\"it seemed to Eduard that [the girl's religious] ideas were in fact only a veneer on her destiny, and her destiny only a veneer on her body; he saw her as an accidental conjunction of a body, ideas, and a life's course, an inorganic structure, arbitrary and unstable.  ....He saw her as an ink line, spreading on a blotter: without contours, without shape.\\"  The skill of a man who can stick lines like this into a story which STILL manages to entertain has to be seen to be believed.  Each story provides its own stock of surprises.  This is the first book by Kundera I've ever read.  It certainly won't be the last.her body; he saw her as an accidental conjunction of a body, ideas, and a life's course, an inorganic structure, arbitrary and unstable.  ....He saw her as an ink line, spreading on a blotter: without contours, without shape.\\"  The skill of a man who can stick lines like this into a story which STILL manages to entertain has to be seen to be believed.  Each story provides its own stock of surprises.  This is the first book by Kundera I've ever read.  It certainly won't be the last.	2003-02-16
US	52761040	R2FGDHM3Q701DP	0226706613	187421759	Chan Kom: A Maya Village	Books	3	5	9	N	N	&quot;The whole Yucatan Maya catalogue&quot;	CHAN KOM is considered a classic study and no doubt it is. It is a most comprehensive, painstaking study of a Mayan village in Yucatan. However, the research for it was done in 1930-31, which makes it now over 70 years old.  Mexico has changed drastically in that time, just like every other country on earth.  How much Chan Kom today resembles that long ago village (if indeed Chan Kom even exists today) I cannot say.  Point #1---you can't read CHAN KOM to learn about modern Mexican society.  Point #2---if you are planning to visit Yucatan, that heartland of ancient Mayan culture, you can use the book as a source of information only tangentially.  Robert Redfield, the chief ethnographer, became one of the giants of American anthropology at the University of Chicago, which was at the center of the field in the 1930s.  This pioneering work of his established a road which was travelled by numerous ethnographers after him.  CHAN KOM, then, represents a style of anthropological research and writing that was once cutting-edge, but is now antique.  Redfield's approach was to garner information on every aspect of daily life, from bee keeping to the beliefs about eclipses.  Economy, tools and techniques, family, religion, ritual, world view-all this and more are discussed in astonishingly painstaking detail.  There is even a long `life history' by the most literate man in the village.  Yet, for a reader not investigating the 20th century evolution of Maya culture, the mass of information is far too great.  Nobody could absorb this much unless they were familiar with today's Yucatan or unless they were researching the period.  There are a number of good maps and many extremely poor photographs.  Yes, CHAN KOM is a classic, but for today's audience, its appeal is limited to specialists or those interested in the history of anthropology itself.  It must be considered a work of social history, to be mined by scholars as background material on the modern Yucatan.<br />Redfield wrote a &quot;sequel&quot; about Chan Kom village later on, called &quot;The Village That Chose Progress&quot;.  I have not read it.  Readers are advised to check that out, bearing in mind that it too may be somewhat dated.ote a &quot;sequel&quot; about Chan Kom village later on, called &quot;The Village That Chose Progress&quot;.  I have not read it.  Readers are advised to check that out, bearing in mind that it too may be somewhat dated.	2003-02-15
US	52761040	R38S52FWVKY636	0226779734	323459286	Engendering Song: Singing and Subjectivity at Prespa Albanian Weddings (Chicago Studies in Ethnomusicology)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Singing at weddings connected to honor and patriarchy	If you want my advice, take the first chapter of this book very lightly.  Get the background information on the Prespa Albanian community in southern Macedonia and how they have emigrated to North America, Australia and parts of western Europe, but unless you're an extremely serious student of anthropology, skip the array of references to Foucault, Bourdieu, and other \\"heavies\\".  You don't need them.  They're in there to show intellectual dexterity and because when you write a Ph.D thesis you do need stuff like that.  I dreaded reaching Chapter 8, entitled \\"Emergent Subjectivities\\" thinking it would be more jargon and barely-relevant theories.  When I got there, I was happy and relieved to find that it was about \\"cultural change in a new environment\\" and well worth reading.  That is what I would say about this whole book.  It is a really excellent ethnography in the modern style.  Sugarman takes weddings and the songs performed at them and reads the whole as a \\"text\\" in which Prespa Albanians are saying something to themselves about life, about their `world view'.  Their identity is learned, maintained, and even transformed through the medium of song.  While many authors claim that they are going to present such a \\"text\\" in their studies, many fall short.  I felt that Sugarman succeeds.  There are a number of useful photographs, the texts and notes of many songs, and a CD.  Some tracks of the CD are like amateur wedding videos, but illustrative nonetheless.  A few can be listened to with pleasure by anyone with a love of Balkan music.<br />Prespa Albanian social life conforms to strict patterns, a web of mutual obligations not tossed aside lightly.  Your status depends on how you fulfill your social obligations.  Until recently, visiting and gregarious behavior dominated social life.  Weddings were the crown jewels in this pattern, so Prespa behavior at weddings presented meaningful patterns in their most intense form.  The \\"order\\" or arrangement of behavior found there---in greeting, seating, food served, dress, modest (female) or exuberant (male) attitudes, rituals undertaken, and most especially, the singing of a vast repertoire of songs in polyphonic mode---establishes social identity.  \\"Honorable behavior on the part of all household members is the precondition for membership in the moral community\\".  [p.197]  This is hardly unique to the Balkans, but Sugarman examines the central identities of Prespa life---patrilineal household, gender, generations, plus kin and friends---and how the underlying core values of honor and moral order are connected to music.  She links the whole system to ideas of honor found throughout the eastern Mediterranean.  ENGENDERING SONG is thus a work of ethnomusicology that strongly connects intellectual traditions of mainstream anthropology with the realm of a specific musical culture.  By the time Sugarman writes that singing has \\"served the community as an activity that integrates and embodies their various understandings of `honor' perhaps more succinctly than any other.\\" [p.225] that \\"to participate in wedding singing is to engage in a process of `engendering'\\" [p.253] and \\"singing is for Prespare the discourse par excellence of patriarchy.\\" [p.282] we fully understand what she is talking about.  In diaspora, economic status has begun to replace honor as the basis of social relations.  The process is laid out very clearly.<br />ENGENDERING SONG presents an extremely thorough, convincing picture of a particular community.  While the detail may be far more than you want to know, I recommend you read it not only for any love of Albanian culture, but as an example of an excellent study in ethnomusicology.nd there---in greeting, seating, food served, dress, modest (female) or exuberant (male) attitudes, rituals undertaken, and most especially, the singing of a vast repertoire of songs in polyphonic mode---establishes social identity.  \\"Honorable behavior on the part of all household members is the precondition for membership in the moral community\\".  [p.197]  This is hardly unique to the Balkans, but Sugarman examines the central identities of Prespa life---patrilineal household, gender, generations, plus kin and friends---and how the underlying core values of honor and moral order are connected to music.  She links the whole system to ideas of honor found throughout the eastern Mediterranean.  ENGENDERING SONG is thus a work of ethnomusicology that strongly connects intellectual traditions of mainstream anthropology with the realm of a specific musical culture.  By the time Sugarman writes that singing has \\"served the community as an activity that integrates and embodies their various understandings of `honor' perhaps more succinctly than any other.\\" [p.225] that \\"to participate in wedding singing is to engage in a process of `engendering'\\" [p.253] and \\"singing is for Prespare the discourse par excellence of patriarchy.\\" [p.282] we fully understand what she is talking about.  In diaspora, economic status has begun to replace honor as the basis of social relations.  The process is laid out very clearly.<br />ENGENDERING SONG presents an extremely thorough, convincing picture of a particular community.  While the detail may be far more than you want to know, I recommend you read it not only for any love of Albanian culture, but as an example of an excellent study in ethnomusicology.	2003-02-11
US	52761040	R1FF5ULTS4V8JS	1559704160	271869213	The Palace of Dreams	Books	5	30	31	N	N	"They 're Selling Postcards of the Hanging...."	Dreams flow into Istanbul from all corners of the Ottoman Empire to be sorted, interpreted, stored, or acted upon by an enormous bureaucracy of faceless figures.  Wheels operate within wheels:  nobody really knows what is going on except a few puppet-masters at the top.  The innocent scion of a high, powerful family begins work in the Tabir Sarrail, that cavernous palace of endless blank corridors which, like Dr. Whos Tardis, is much bigger inside than out.  Sinister goings on, always just out of sight, almost out of earshot.  Mark-Alem learns as he goes.  His meteoric rise may have ominous significance.  Maybe not.  He has to make sense out of the senseless.  He has to give meaning to the meaningless.  Interpretation is everything, but a wrong twist could lead to fatal disaster.  Are his fellow workers in on some dark secrets that he has failed to decipher ?  Or are they just as they seem, friendly and struggling ?  The world of power dazzles and depresses simultaneously.<br />When is Ismail Kadare going to get the Nobel Prize ?  I have asked this before.  THE PALACE OF DREAMS is yet another masterpiece by this Albanian author.  It has links to The Three-Arched Bridge, another of his great novels.  While the tenor of THE PALACE OF DREAMS is entirely different from the latter work, they do the share the enviable quality of operating on several levels, which to my mind, always indicates the highest craftsmanship.  The present volume resembles Kafka more than a little, perhaps also is reminiscent of Sartres play No Exit.  At one level it is such a nightmarish fantasy, a bad dream played out in a couple hundred pages.  At a second level, Kadare succeeded in writing a magnificent replica of the workings of secret security agencies within the administration of Communist era nations like Albania.  Part terror, part nightmare, he sets his story in the 19th century Ottoman empire to avoid personal repercussions (the book was banned in Albania anyway).  Anyone who ruled over the dark zones of mens lives wielded enormous power.  Dream Palace or Sigurimi, the Albanian security agency ?  It does not matter.  By linking the protagonist to the Quprili family, a genuine Albanian-born dynasty of Ottoman officials and administrators, and to the recital of Albanian folk epics, Kadare ties the dream palace to actual history in a very clever way.  The voice of the people must eventually be heard--it is only a question of when.  This is a most clever book and Kadare fans should not miss it.  If you havent started reading him yet, you could well begin here.Anyone who ruled over the dark zones of mens lives wielded enormous power.  Dream Palace or Sigurimi, the Albanian security agency ?  It does not matter.  By linking the protagonist to the Quprili family, a genuine Albanian-born dynasty of Ottoman officials and administrators, and to the recital of Albanian folk epics, Kadare ties the dream palace to actual history in a very clever way.  The voice of the people must eventually be heard--it is only a question of when.  This is a most clever book and Kadare fans should not miss it.  If you havent started reading him yet, you could well begin here.	2003-01-31
US	52761040	R2XX8P4S8KE8RE	1570031894	129687373	Colonial South Carolina: A History	Books	4	25	26	N	N	Palmettos, Planters, and Patriots---a detailed history	Sometimes it happens that you read a book for a different reason from the one which made the author write it.  In that case, when writing a critique, you must be very careful not to fault the author for not \\"living up to\\" your requirements.  That is the case here.  For many years, I have been intrigued by the question, \\"Why are states like South Carolina so different from my own state of Massachusetts when they were settled largely by people from the same country at around the same time?\\"  I never did much about finding the answer, but some time ago I did buy this book.  I have only just read it.  OK, so it wasn't such a burning question !  But that is what impelled me to undertake to read COLONIAL SOUTH CAROLINA and I'm glad I did.<br /><br />Weir's clearly-written history provides a detailed look at the colony, which began to emerge in the 1630s under the rule of proprietors who brought in colonists.  He gives background on Spanish and French incursions and battles over the area, as well as on the various Indian peoples, who might not have been as numerous as those to the south or west.  Weir's main interest, however, is political and legal---in the growth of laws, political institutions, and people in government---and how these led eventually to rebellion against Britain.  For an amateur, these sections get rather detailed.  I was interested in almost everything else---the relationship with the Indians, the economy (naval stores, rice, indigo), slavery, social classes, and their standards of living.  Because of his focus, he begins with political developments instead of with economics and the society, which I feel is a mistake.  In his way, amateurs like me can hardly grasp the motives or the players in the political game until we reach subsequent chapters.<br />If I have not found my answer (and maybe there is no definite answer), I got a lot of valuable things to think about.  Though South Carolina was founded more for economic interests than as a refuge for a persecuted minority (like Massachusetts), both Huguenots and English dissenters played a major role in the state.  There is not a clear difference there.  Perhaps the tenor of life differed.  Weir notes, \\"Not everyone in South Carolina during the early years was a scoundrel though some...suspected that was the case.\\" (p.61)  There was, however, a large contingent of adventurers, connections to pirates, and some mighty loose living.  South Carolina did not develop towns with self-governing traditions, nor was there much government at the county level.  Instead, large tracts were granted to individuals, and words like \\"barony\\" and \\"seignory\\" were mentioned in laws.  A more feudal atmosphere then, culminating in the \\"Margravate of Azilia\\" a feudal style buffer state that was nearly founded in the wild territory between South Carolina and Spanish Florida (now mostly Georgia).  Unlike New England, South Carolina suffered constant raids by the Spanish and French, a war with pirates, wars with powerful Indian tribes several times in the 18th century, hurricanes, a huge fire in the capital, and yellow fever.  Despite all this, secret ballot and religious freedom flourished, the colonial government---once the proprietary relationship ended in 1719---was not less progressive than others.  However, what distinguished the two regions most of all was the extent of slavery.  For most of its colonial history, blacks were a majority in South Carolina.  The fear of uprisings and the terror used to control the slaves set the tone of life in this, the richest of the 13 colonies.  Any disunity among whites could have been fatal, thus an inordinately large amount of central control.  Weir also discusses the sectional division between lowland planters and upland small farmers; the composition of white society; and questions of social stability.  All these things aided me immensely in trying to answer my question.<br />In addition, readers will find a great amount of fascinating information in this book---how to make tar and pitch, South Carolina style---the use of indigo as currency during the Revolution---the importation of the original rice seeds from Madagascar (was it the pirate connection ?)---the development of black cowboys whose work patterns appeared over a century later in the oft-glorified West and a lot more.  COLONIAL SOUTH CAROLINA is indispensable for anyone who wants an overall picture of this colony, whose history is often ignored in favor of Virginia, New York or Massachusetts.  I believe, though, that I must read Judith Carney's \\"Black Rice\\" (2001) and Michael Stephen Hindus' \\"Prison and Plantation\\" (1980) for a more complete answer to my own question.ation in this book---how to make tar and pitch, South Carolina style---the use of indigo as currency during the Revolution---the importation of the original rice seeds from Madagascar (was it the pirate connection ?)---the development of black cowboys whose work patterns appeared over a century later in the oft-glorified West and a lot more.  COLONIAL SOUTH CAROLINA is indispensable for anyone who wants an overall picture of this colony, whose history is often ignored in favor of Virginia, New York or Massachusetts.  I believe, though, that I must read Judith Carney's \\"Black Rice\\" (2001) and Michael Stephen Hindus' \\"Prison and Plantation\\" (1980) for a more complete answer to my own question.	2003-01-21
US	52761040	RKB6Z4BSG9TPD	0140390278	633124950	A Modern Instance (Penguin American Library)	Books	4	21	22	N	N	Hick Duo Go Splitsville in Beantown	Since reading this novel first some six years ago, Ive always felt that it has one of the most unattractive titles of any book I know.  On re-reading it, I still think so. This should not put readers off, however, because behind that bland, unimaginative moniker, which reflected some long-since faded thoughts by the author, you will find a fascinating study of divorce in the 19th century, in a society that condemned it.  Fifty years ago I can remember my own mother whispering the word divorced when speaking about a couple no longer togetherit was too shameful to say out loud.  Yeah, well, times have changed.  But what about the mid-1870s ?  Howells carefully draws the picture in his usual, nuanced style.<br />A handsome, but shallow youth, Bartley Hubbard, flirts with Marcia Gaylord in a small Maine town.  We can see their union is ill-fated right from the start, her family opposes it (he seems to have no relatives), but Marcia burns for Bartley.  They marry surreptitiously and head for Boston where Bartley gets a foothold in the newspaper world.  He mouths idealistic pap like I hope I shall never do anything unworthy of your idea. but basically he has no moral framework in his character; hes selfish, facile, opportunistic, and self-indulgent.  Marcia, though beautiful, is ignorant, self-centered, and very jealous.  Howells emphasizes their lack of religion as a key to their deficiencies.  As the marriage falls apart, we turn more and more to other characters, all in the higher levels of Boston society, who have the moral fiber that the Hubbards do not.  Ben Halleck, Bartley's ex-friend, wrestles with his conscience over his secret love for Marcia as he sees her suffer over Bartleys abandonment of her.  In very 19th century style, he worships her \\"as a woman whose constancy to her mistake\\" makes her sacred.  He suppresses all his desires, even disappearing to Uruguay for two years, but merely thinking of another mans wife, albeit a desperately unhappy one, is utterly beyond the pale.  He castigates himself unmercifully and winds up a penitent minister.  But A MODERN INSTANCE is not a simple melodrama---it is a complex mix of personalities.  There are no simple answers---isnt it easy to be upright when you are financially secure ?---and the end is indefinite.  Though Hubbard is used as an example of moral decay, a man without firm principles and moral rectitude, he is still the most vivid, most realistic character.  He is a likeable scamp, no matter how he is villified by the Boston society people.<br />The values that people live by in Boston circa 1875 are far from those we know today.  They agonize about things that would not give us much pause.  They emote on civilization because they, like Howells, could not imagine the horrors of the 20th century.  Thus, in a sense, Howells novel is pass&eacute;.  Yet, his conversations, his picture of relationships, his description of the times, and even of nature are excellent.  For example the vivid logging camp scenes (pp.79-97)are pure genius.  You feel that you know that time and place by the end.  Even if there are certain melodramatic twists and turns in the novel, and even if the last 90 pages drag a little, I would certainly recommend that you read A MODERN INSTANCE if you have any interest at all in American literature.  It is a startlingly powerful book whose characters will stay with you.rately unhappy one, is utterly beyond the pale.  He castigates himself unmercifully and winds up a penitent minister.  But A MODERN INSTANCE is not a simple melodrama---it is a complex mix of personalities.  There are no simple answers---isnt it easy to be upright when you are financially secure ?---and the end is indefinite.  Though Hubbard is used as an example of moral decay, a man without firm principles and moral rectitude, he is still the most vivid, most realistic character.  He is a likeable scamp, no matter how he is villified by the Boston society people.   <br />The values that people live by in Boston circa 1875 are far from those we know today.  They agonize about things that would not give us much pause.  They emote on civilization because they, like Howells, could not imagine the horrors of the 20th century.  Thus, in a sense, Howells novel is pass.  Yet, his conversations, his picture of relationships, his description of the times, and even of nature are excellent.  For example the vivid logging camp scenes (pp.79-97)are pure genius.  You feel that you know that time and place by the end.  Even if there are certain melodramatic twists and turns in the novel, and even if the last 90 pages drag a little, I would certainly recommend that you read A MODERN INSTANCE if you have any interest at all in American literature.  It is a startlingly powerful book whose characters will stay with you.	2003-01-15
US	52761040	RB3WQ66S3B92X	0811209725	432823276	Land of the Great Image	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Portuguese Father Takes Bit Part in Southeast Asian Politics	No matter what we do, no matter how the tides of world affairs go, some regions of our planet are destined to fall through the cracks, to disappear entirely from the \\"radar screens\\" for long periods of time, perhaps many lifetimes.  Burma has never loomed large in the West, except for a brief period during WW II, when Anglo-American forces fought the Japanese there.  If Burma itself remains a generally-unknown quantity, what to say of the old kingdoms that flourished there for many centuries before being absorbed into the Burmese state---Ava, Pegu, Arakan, and Toungoo ?  It is probably safe to say that unless you are a Southeast Asian historian, you have not read any other books on the history of such remote kingdoms, remote in space and time.  If you want to start, you have certainly come to the right place.<br />Father Sebastiao Manrique, a Portuguese, kept a very detailed diary of his work and travels in the years 1628-1636.  Maurice Collis retells his tale very effectively, with many an aside to explain mores and beliefs of the times.  Collis himself worked in the British administration of Burma and so visited a number of places mentioned by Manrique.  We start with an excellent description of life and the times in Goa, the center of Portuguese Asia in the 1620s, then move on through an exciting voyage and shipwreck, to the `unofficial' Portuguese colony near modern Calcutta, and to a pirate/slave-raider island off the coast of modern Bangladesh.  These slavers were aligned with the Buddhist monarch of Arakan, then a powerful kingdom along the Bay of Bengal, but they remained a powerful force of their own, thanks to their European arms and ships.  Fearing an attack while most of their number were off kidnapping more Bengali slaves, the slavers sent Father Manrique on an emergency mission to the court of Arakan to assure the king of their loyalty.  Braving tigers, floods, hungry hordes of ants, and much else, Manrique arrived at Mrauk-u, the capital and saved the day for the dear Portuguese slavers.  He remained in the region for nearly eight years, observer of all the glories and horrors of the royal court---coronations, mass murders, royal audiences, elephant parades, magic.<br />THE LAND OF THE GREAT IMAGE is a travel book, but it is also history, anthropology, a minor study of megalomania, and a book much connected to the study of comparative religion.  Manrique was a bigoted man, who condemned the \\"paganism\\" in the religions of the East while excusing his own support of slavery and the Inquisition.  Collis' attitudes too form part of the debates which his book may raise in the minds of readers.  His comparison of bizarre Hindu rituals of \\"suicide by shark\\" with the burnings of the Inquisition seem extremely shortsighted in my eyes, yet I sense that the author was a sensitive, clever man.  All in all, this volume will open your eyes in many directions, provide fascinating reading for a few days, and make you wonder, yet again, at the unbelievable variety of human experience.the day for the dear Portuguese slavers.  He remained in the region for nearly eight years, observer of all the glories and horrors of the royal court---coronations, mass murders, royal audiences, elephant parades, magic.<br />THE LAND OF THE GREAT IMAGE is a travel book, but it is also history, anthropology, a minor study of megalomania, and a book much connected to the study of comparative religion.  Manrique was a bigoted man, who condemned the \\"paganism\\" in the religions of the East while excusing his own support of slavery and the Inquisition.  Collis' attitudes too form part of the debates which his book may raise in the minds of readers.  His comparison of bizarre Hindu rituals of \\"suicide by shark\\" with the burnings of the Inquisition seem extremely shortsighted in my eyes, yet I sense that the author was a sensitive, clever man.  All in all, this volume will open your eyes in many directions, provide fascinating reading for a few days, and make you wonder, yet again, at the unbelievable variety of human experience.	2003-01-11
US	52761040	RT1X0546JCGC2	0140268766	161343405	Tinisima	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Eyes wide open---and focussed on the market	Tina Modotti led a fascinating life.  If it were ultimately tragic, well, whose isn't ?  Born into a poor family in northwestern Italy, she emigrated with them to America as a teenager.  She married young, to an artistic sort of fellow, got into the silent movies, went to Mexico with her husband, and fell in love with Edward Weston the famous photographer, who left his wife and family to be with her.  As one of the bright lights and sexual epicenters of the Mexican artistic renaissance of the 1920s, Modotti sparkled like a Roman candle.  Her last (and true ?) lover was a Cuban revolutionary who got himself assassinated by her side in 1929.  She was almost 33.  The Mexican government tried to implicate her in the murder, finally deporting her to Europe the following year, despite the best efforts of Diego Rivera and the Mexican Communist Party.  From then on, Tina floundered.  Germany did not suit her, life in Russia in the `30s was anything but pleasant---she subordinated all her individuality to the needs of the party.  She became a Comintern agent in Europe, winding up in Spain, where she slaved away throughout the whole Civil War, fleeing to France at the end, and returning to Mexico with her faithless last husband, also a Communist Party operative.  She died there in 1941.<br />OK, that's the outline of her life in a single paragraph.  If you want to know how she fit into all the various circles of her acquaintance, if you want to know what Tina thought about any of this, if you would like any sort of psychological grasp of what makes a person live this way, why so much insecurity, why the need to be controlled (ideas that don't even come up in this shallow work)---then, for God's sake, read another book.  This is a journalistic, fictionalized biography.  Nothing wrong there, such things could be excellent.  It depends on what journal we are talking about, though.  TINISIMA, in my opinion, derives from the \\"National Enquirer\\".  We definitely learn about her sexual activities and feelings, because the writer had her eye firmly on the marketplace.  We waltz through her love life, but Tina remains an enigma.  We are treated to endless cascades of names, some of which may be more familiar in Mexico than in North America, true, but still the presence of many can only be likened to cameo appearances in certain flashy Hollywood movies.  Ernest Hemingway, Leon Trotsky, Frida Kahlo, Palmiro Togliatti, Norman Bethune, Lazaro Cardenas, William Z. Foster, Octavio Paz, Garcia Lorca---the list is endless, but to what purpose ?  As a novel, not a biography, Poniatowska could have portrayed  Modotti's character as deeply and intimately as she wanted.  There was nothing to stop her.  Instead, we get \\"People\\" magazine.<br />I don't know another book about Tina Modotti unfortunately.  I wanted to find out more about her, and, after a fashion, I did by reading TINISIMA, but I believe the real biography, fictional or serious, has yet to be written.  The praises lavished on the book on the frontispiece and back cover should be taken with a large number of grains of salt.  This book is seriously flawed-it is neither a biography nor a good novel.  3 stars is a generous rating.al activities and feelings, because the writer had her eye firmly on the marketplace.  We waltz through her love life, but Tina remains an enigma.  We are treated to endless cascades of names, some of which may be more familiar in Mexico than in North America, true, but still the presence of many can only be likened to cameo appearances in certain flashy Hollywood movies.  Ernest Hemingway, Leon Trotsky, Frida Kahlo, Palmiro Togliatti, Norman Bethune, Lazaro Cardenas, William Z. Foster, Octavio Paz, Garcia Lorca---the list is endless, but to what purpose ?  As a novel, not a biography, Poniatowska could have portrayed  Modotti's character as deeply and intimately as she wanted.  There was nothing to stop her.  Instead, we get \\"People\\" magazine.  <br />I don't know another book about Tina Modotti unfortunately.  I wanted to find out more about her, and, after a fashion, I did by reading TINISIMA, but I believe the real biography, fictional or serious, has yet to be written.  The praises lavished on the book on the frontispiece and back cover should be taken with a large number of grains of salt.  This book is seriously flawed-it is neither a biography nor a good novel.  3 stars is a generous rating.	2003-01-07
US	52761040	R2E9V109N092YI	0375759271	262526261	A Hazard of New Fortunes (Modern Library Classics)	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Several Sideshows Jell Into A Novel	A usual book review outlines something of the plot, not enough to give everything away, but at least something to catch a potential reader's fancy.  I cannot assure you that this book has much of plot---some men come together to run a new bi-weekly magazine in New York in the 1880s, their financial backer has hickish, conservative tendencies and he opposes a certain impoverished writer who supports socialism (then a wild-eyed fantasy.  This rich man's son, who abhors any form of business, is made into the managing editor.  A crisis develops, takes a sudden unexpected turn, and the men buy out the backer, who leaves for Europe.  Most novels have a main character whose moods and motivations are central to the work.  Not A HAZARD OF NEW FORTUNES.  Several people figure almost equally in this respect, none of them women, but women are developed more than in most male-authored novels of the time, even including a sympathetic view of a very independent female character.  Basil March might be taken for the main character, but that would be mostly because he is introduced first.  He is abandoned for long stretches while we follow the lives and personalities of others.<br />Yet, I must say, I admired Howells' novel very much.  It is not for those who require action, sex, or dramatic events.  Rather, it is a slice of life of the period, of the place, of family life and social repartee that may be unequalled.  Though Howells claimed to be a \\"realist\\" and he is often spoken of, it seems, as one of such a school in American literature, the novel oscillates between extremely vivid descriptions of all varieties of life in New York, humanist philosophizing, and mild melodrama, thus, I would not class it as a truly realist novel in the same sense as say, \\"McTeague\\" by Frank Norris.  Howells had the American optimism, the reluctance to dwell on the darker sides of human nature.  This novel may draw accusations, then, of naivete.  I think that would be short-sighted.  Henry James and Faulkner might be deeper psychologically and Hemingway more sculpted, but Howells sometimes puts his finger right on the very essence of American ways of thinking and on American character.  Some sections, like for instance the long passage on looking for an apartment in New York-over thirty pages---simply radiate genius.  The natural gas millionaire and his shrewish daughter; the gung-ho, go-getter manager of the magazine; the dreamy, but selfish artists, the Southern belle---all these may be almost stock characters in 20th century American letters, but can never have been better summarized than here.  Two statements made by Basil March, a literary editor married into an old Boston family, sum up the feel of A HAZARD OF NEW FORTUNES, a novel that takes great cognizance of the potential for change in people (always an optimist's point of view).  First, he says, \\"There's the making of several characters in each of us; we are each several characters and sometimes this character has the lead in us, and sometimes that.\\"  And lastly, he says \\"I don't know what it all means, but I believe it means good.\\"  Howells was no doubt a sterling man and this, perhaps his best novel, reflects that more than anything else.Faulkner might be deeper psychologically and Hemingway more sculpted, but Howells sometimes puts his finger right on the very essence of American ways of thinking and on American character.  Some sections, like for instance the long passage on looking for an apartment in New York-over thirty pages---simply radiate genius.  The natural gas millionaire and his shrewish daughter; the gung-ho, go-getter manager of the magazine; the dreamy, but selfish artists, the Southern belle---all these may be almost stock characters in 20th century American letters, but can never have been better summarized than here.  Two statements made by Basil March, a literary editor married into an old Boston family, sum up the feel of A HAZARD OF NEW FORTUNES, a novel that takes great cognizance of the potential for change in people (always an optimist's point of view).  First, he says, \\"There's the making of several characters in each of us; we are each several characters and sometimes this character has the lead in us, and sometimes that.\\"  And lastly, he says \\"I don't know what it all means, but I believe it means good.\\"  Howells was no doubt a sterling man and this, perhaps his best novel, reflects that more than anything else.	2002-12-30
US	52761040	R2NKP5DMRJOXK8	0451524969	603108986	The Rise of Silas Lapham (Signet classics)	Books	3	19	20	N	N	&quot;Boston Paint Tycoon Plots to Gatecrash Elite : Loses Shirt&quot;	The photographs of Alfred Stieglitz still look modern and talented today, but it's nearly impossible to imagine how they would have looked to viewers in the 1890s, when they were taken.  They were revolutionary, amazing, radically avant-garde.  In a similar vein, the first novel about an American industrialist---a novel first printed in 1885---cannot seem so new, so fresh to our 21st century eyes.  This theme startles nobody anymore.  But in tracing the ups and downs of Silas Lapham, late of a Vermont village, a Civil War veteran, and founder of a fortune in 1870s Boston, Howells produced a highly original novel for his day.  Lapham, his plain-spoken wife Persis, and two daughters live in luxury, thanks to the successful paint manufacturing business whose ubiquitous ads disfigured large portions of the New England countryside.  Puffed up with success and not averse to considerable bragging, Lapham decides to build a sumptuous mansion on the water side of Beacon Street in the then-new district of Back Bay.  At the same time, the Laphams come into contact with a family from the old Boston Brahmin elite, a family whose son falls in love with a Lapham daughter.  The reaction of both families to this potential liaison, the love affair itself, and the fate of the Lapham fortune form the subject of this solid novel.<br />William Dean Howells was and is known as one of the early American \\"realists\\", as opposed to the more romantic style that dominated most of 19th century English language literature.  Not being a person well-versed in the \\"accepted wisdom\\" of literary criticism and history, I can only say that compared to later writers, for example, Crane, Norris, Dreiser, and Sinclair, to be followed later by Anderson and Lewis, I find that Howells' work still retains plenty of the more romantic elements even while he does portray the life and business of a paint tycoon with considerable accuracy and empathy.  No snobbish repudiator of nouveaux riches gaucheries, Howells.  This book is not a sarcastic look at the \\"ridiculous efforts of a bourgeois to climb above his station\\".  Lapham may have his faults, but he is essentially a good, likeable man.  If you have an interest in Boston history or in knowing what Boston life was like in the 1870s, I believe you will certainly enjoy reading THE RISE OF SILAS LAPHAM.  The story is a little artificial, the language a bit outdated, I felt, though in comparison to the horrors and perversities that throng some modern works, the novel might fill a few winter afternoons with a quiet pleasure.  Certain stylistic oddities surprised me, such as the sudden appearance of a narrative \\"I\\" after over 200 pages !  Howells has been quite neglected in recent times: for sure, he may not be a Dostoevsky, Balzac, or Faulkner, but don't brush him off.This book is not a sarcastic look at the \\"ridiculous efforts of a bourgeois to climb above his station\\".  Lapham may have his faults, but he is essentially a good, likeable man.  If you have an interest in Boston history or in knowing what Boston life was like in the 1870s, I believe you will certainly enjoy reading THE RISE OF SILAS LAPHAM.  The story is a little artificial, the language a bit outdated, I felt, though in comparison to the horrors and perversities that throng some modern works, the novel might fill a few winter afternoons with a quiet pleasure.  Certain stylistic oddities surprised me, such as the sudden appearance of a narrative \\"I\\" after over 200 pages !  Howells has been quite neglected in recent times: for sure, he may not be a Dostoevsky, Balzac, or Faulkner, but don't brush him off.	2002-12-14
US	52761040	R31A3F5Y93JDJD	0824818636	833183315	Tourism, Ethnicity, and the State in Asian and Pacific Societies	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A solid addition to the literature	After \\"The Tourist\\", by Dean MacCannell and Valene Smith's edited book titled \\"Hosts and Guests\\", in the mid-1970s, the field of the Anthropology of Tourism was flung wide open.  A large number of writers focussed their attention on this topic which rapidly increased in importance.  In this `new wave' of anthropological writing, Picard and Wood's edited volume on tourism, ethnicity and the state in various societies in Asia and the Pacific stands out for its quality.  Wood's introduction is followed by seven well-written, informative chapters, each written by different authors.  There are a number of maps, charts, and even black and white photographs, all of which enhance the text.  The areas covered by the book include Guizhou in southwestern China, Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, Bali and Sulawesi Selatan in Indonesia, and Hawai'i /Western Samoa.  The authors chose their own directions and followed their own interests, but unlike many other such compilations that I have read, this one really hangs together in excellent fashion.<br />In China, Singapore and Indonesia, \\"ethnic tourism\\" both reflects state policy towards national ethnic groups and is used by the state to further policy.  Tourist development does not operate outside state controls, so we read about showcase visions of ethnic diversity in which ethnicity itself is commodified according to government guidelines.  In Bali, tourism has become so much part of the culture that it can no longer be considered an outside force.  The author can write of the \\"culturalization\\" of Balinese society in which the arts emphasized by cultural tourism have become crucial to Balinese identity.  In Thailand, neglect of national minorities and their culture reflects the state policy of trying to `iron out' differences between small ethnic groups and the large Thai majority (to the detriment of the former).  The Malaysian case reflects not so much on ethnic policy in the country as on using tourism and tourist `precincts' to foster a particular view of national history and culture.  The study of Hawai'i and Samoa may be the most diffuse of the seven, plus, the capitalist environment of the \\"50th State\\" precludes the state interference found in China and parts of Southeast Asia.  Thus this final chapter does not mesh so neatly with the others, yet the author also introduces useful points to show how tourism is intimately linked with ethnicity and how the state used a certain image to foster both tourism and domestic harmony (despite the patent untruth of that image).  In short, this is a most useful book for those interested in the anthropology of tourism, in politics (state interference in tourism, state manipulation of ethnic images, ethnic rivalries over tourism receipts), and in the constant revision of what \\"culture\\" and \\"history\\" really mean in any one society.  If I were teaching a course that touched on any of these issues, I would definitely use this book.  If I were writing a paper on some aspect of tourism, I would have no qualms about turning to this book for its excellent case studies.to foster a particular view of national history and culture.  The study of Hawai'i and Samoa may be the most diffuse of the seven, plus, the capitalist environment of the \\"50th State\\" precludes the state interference found in China and parts of Southeast Asia.  Thus this final chapter does not mesh so neatly with the others, yet the author also introduces useful points to show how tourism is intimately linked with ethnicity and how the state used a certain image to foster both tourism and domestic harmony (despite the patent untruth of that image).  In short, this is a most useful book for those interested in the anthropology of tourism, in politics (state interference in tourism, state manipulation of ethnic images, ethnic rivalries over tourism receipts), and in the constant revision of what \\"culture\\" and \\"history\\" really mean in any one society.  If I were teaching a course that touched on any of these issues, I would definitely use this book.  If I were writing a paper on some aspect of tourism, I would have no qualms about turning to this book for its excellent case studies.	2002-12-02
US	52761040	R7FRRV0ERU3U8	0436339447	908181842	Stars of the New Curfew	Books	4	2	2	N	N	"When chaos is the god of an era....."	If we except the first story, \\"In the Shadow of War\\", which seemed slight and unworthy of the rest, STARS OF THE NEW CURFEW contains five topnotch stories by Nigerian author Ben Okri.  To use a `national' adjective like that is sometimes to say everything and sometimes to say nothing.  In this case, it is obvious that though you can take Okri out of Nigeria (he lives in London), you cannot take Nigeria out of Okri.  The gritty, sweaty, illogical desperation of his characters, hanging on to life by hook or by crook in the slums of Lagos or provincial towns, is so vivid that so-called \\"magical realism\\" seems more like \\"realism\\".  The smell of sewerage and dried fish, the clash of traffic, drums and trumpets, the spieling of patent medicine salesmen,  the dust, the heaps of garbage, the roar of military trucks and aircraft drown out your disbelief.  Okri is the Tutuola of the modern age, a more controlled, a more polished Yoruba tale spinner with none of the hopes of the more-placid colonial era when independence was only a goal.  Published after 28 years of freedom, these stories reflect the chaos, the corruption, the lost chances and the waste of human abilities and natural resources.  Maybe they are just stories, maybe they are a protest from the soul---what has happened to our Nigeria ?  The military governor's birthday where one of the crazily zooming planes celebrating the occasion crashes into a slum----the competition of two wealthy families in a small town which takes the form of a money-throwing contest in which poor and unlucky fellow citizens abase themselves by fighting over notes and coins---the irony of a bewildered Rastafarian from the long-vanished diaspora, returned to preach and cry out \\"Africa, we counting on yuh !\\" in the streets of chaos and ruin.  People live on their wits, people live at the expense of others' health and earnings, violence rules, the beautiful girl will die, life is cheap, yet dearly held for all that.  The last story, \\"What the Tapster Saw\\", ripped from the same cloth as Tutuola's \\"The Palm-wine Drinkard\\", is a tale as told by the traditionally powerless to deliver subtle messages about affairs in the real world without pointing any fingers.  It can be a message for Nigeria, it can be just the fantastic wanderings of a storyteller's fevered brain.  These are wonderful stories, Okri is a worthy addition to the pantheon of Nigerian literature.  \\"There are several ways to burn in your own fire.\\"(p.191)  Here they are.Tapster Saw\\", ripped from the same cloth as Tutuola's \\"The Palm-wine Drinkard\\", is a tale as told by the traditionally powerless to deliver subtle messages about affairs in the real world without pointing any fingers.  It can be a message for Nigeria, it can be just the fantastic wanderings of a storyteller's fevered brain.  These are wonderful stories, Okri is a worthy addition to the pantheon of Nigerian literature.  \\"There are several ways to burn in your own fire.\\"(p.191)  Here they are.	2002-10-31
US	52761040	R3EFO243I607IO	0195020898	467861115	Peru: A Cultural History (Latin American Histories)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	"From Incas to Inca Cola"---an excellent cultural history	Peru makes few marks on the average person's mind outside Latin America.  We may think of llamas, Andes, Pizarro and the conquistadores, Macchu Picchu, the pan pipes and armadillo-shell charangos played by street musicians all over North America, and maybe, in the last few years, violent Maoist guerrillas, drug gangs, and a notorious siege of the Japanese Embassy.  Perhaps you have read Vargas Llosa's excellent novels.  What else ?  Do you recall Theodore Wilder's novel \\"The Bridge at San Luis Rey\\" ?  What about Yma Sumac or von Hagen's book on the roads of the ancient Inca Empire ?  I'm digging deeply now, right ?  Unless you have studied a specialized version of history, or have gone in for Latin American anthropology, Peru remains on the fringe of our non-Latin American world.  Perhaps you would like to know more.  Perhaps you are beginning to study the area or the country.  Perhaps you are just looking for a good book on a subject that has always interested you---but you didn't know where to start.<br /><br />This is the place.  It's always a pleasure to find a good basic book that gives you clear, well-written insights into a country or time you really knew only hazily before.  That's why I was so glad to read PERU, by Dobyns and Doughty.  Though I bought it back in 1983 in Australia, when the book was only seven years published, I didn't get around to reading it till just now.  It is part of a series of Latin American Histories put out by Oxford University Press. The only other one I ever read, on Chile, by Brian Loveman, also stood out as excellent.<br />PERU gives an excellent overview of how that country's culture changed over time, from the ancient civilizations of the oases and highlands long before the Christian era, through the Inca Empire (that began just about a century before its collapse under the Spanish onslaught), to the colonial era and the end of European rule. Even though in the 19th century, the political confusion is reflected in a less Olympian overview from the authors, cultural change, as opposed to blow-by-blow political history, remains uppermost. It is always difficult to separate these culture and political history---one might quibble with the authors whether this or that was entirely necessary, but they provide a readable, interesting account (you can let some of the statistical paragraphs go unless you are collecting data). My edition of the book ends at 1975, before the return of democracy, the rise of Alan Garcia, Fujimori and Sendero Luminoso, and the subsequent fall of all three. There are many books on the Incas and the ancient Peruvian civilizations. Pizarro and the Conquest are also well-covered in literature. Overviews, to my knowledge, are scarce. Thus, while somewhat dated, PERU may be the best book in English on Peruvian cultural history as a whole. Inca Cola does not rate a mention, however, neither does Vargas Llosa.pian overview from the authors, cultural change, as opposed to blow-by-blow political history, remains uppermost. It is always difficult to separate these culture and political history---one might quibble with the authors whether this or that was entirely necessary, but they provide a readable, interesting account (you can let some of the statistical paragraphs go unless you are collecting data). My edition of the book ends at 1975, before the return of democracy, the rise of Alan Garcia, Fujimori and Sendero Luminoso, and the subsequent fall of all three. There are many books on the Incas and the ancient Peruvian civilizations. Pizarro and the Conquest are also well-covered in literature. Overviews, to my knowledge, are scarce. Thus, while somewhat dated, PERU may be the best book in English on Peruvian cultural history as a whole. Inca Cola does not rate a mention, however, neither does Vargas Llosa.	2002-10-23
US	52761040	R6124N1IP9PL	039475526X	423697504	Cities of Salt	Books	5	81	84	N	N	"The source of the illness and the root of the problem"	CITIES OF SALT is a highly unusual novel because unlike most, its main character is not a human being, but a city, even a country or a culture.  Like the great Mexican muralists, Rivera, Orozco, and Siqueiros, Munif paints the painful, colorful, and confused story of the transformation of a whole society---like Chinua Achebe of Nigeria, he shows what happened when \\"things fell apart\\".  No single character is found in every chapter,the focus constantly changes,yet the direction remains clear.  Peter Theroux faced an immense task, I believe, though I do not know Arabic.  He either had to capture the flavor of a language that uses proverbs, quotations from the Qur'an, and indirect approaches to topics and risk English speakers' incomprehension ... or turn the Arabic into more familiar English dialogue, based on general meaning, and utterly destroy the special nature of the text.  I would say he has done a fantastic job.  You have the feeling of being in another world, where people express themselves in ways unlike North America/Britain/Australia in 2002.  It is a convention of Western novels that speakers understand each other, but we know, in real life, that that is not so.  Munif recognizes that, especially in a situation of rapid culture change, one speaker may not understand what another is saying at all.<br />When the word \\"colonialism\\" is mentioned, we usually think of Africa, of India or Southeast Asia, or of the Spanish invasions of Central and South America.  Secondarily we may (or should) remember the Anglo-Saxon deeds in North America and Australia.  Even if we narrow the focus to the Middle East, our \\"take\\" on colonialism there usually derives from the British or French occupation of former Turkish territories.  CITIES OF SALT, written in the 1980s, tells a story, in other words, that has seldom been brought to the world's attention, that is very far from twenty first century dialogue.  This is amazing, this is tragic, because it seemed to me, by the time I had finished Munif's novel, that here lay so much of the origins of Al Qaeda and of Osama bin Laden.  The American oil companies, with the agreement and active cooperation of the local emirs and ruling families, came to a society which was entirely unprepared for their arrival and totally uninformed about the consequences of Big Oil's operations.  The novel opens with a description of a backwater oasis with a traditional way of life.  After 120 pages, American bulldozers uproot all the trees and the inhabitants of Wadi al-Uyoun are exiled forever.  Is this a potent metaphor or what ?  A port is built on the coast, an airconditioned American compound erected behind barbed wire with gardens and swimming pools, while the newly-recruited Arab workers live in stifling, fetid dormitories.  The relationship between Arab and American, worker and boss, is the usual capitalist one, but this (probably eastern Saudi Arabia) is a deeply traditional Islamic society with entirely different values. The characters that oppose change and so-called modernization most vehemently are driven away or killed, but they remain, like spirits, like echoes of the solid, understandable past, for the many people caught in a whirlwind of change.  Like those exiled or murdered princes of medieval Europe, people believe that they may appear when most needed.  Munif traces the rise of different classes, the change in mentality owing to new social circumstances, the arrival of doctors, merchants, and transportation companies, and the beguiling of the rulers.  [Women play almost no role in the novel, nor do Americans ever appear as anything more than unfathomable aliens.]  The Americans came for their own profit, the rulers conspired to allow them a free hand in return for unimaginable wealth, (p.595 \\"was he their emir, there to defend and protect them, or was he the Americans' emir ?\\"  Munif and his books are banned in Saudi Arabia).  Some of the people shared in the new wealth, but they were made tofeel outsiders in their own land.  Many people got nothing.  The long-term result of this colonial penetration, so ably and lyrically portrayed in this novel, is known to us all.<br />CITIES OF SALT, though without love or sex and without strong protagonists, is a lively, colorful, unique novel well-worth reading and free of diatribe.  I often thought of the Brazilian writers, Guimaraes Rosa and Amado, who brought whole worlds to life, onto the world stage.  Munif has done a similar job.  This novel should be much more widely known than it is.made to feel outsiders in their own land.  Many people got nothing.  The long-term result of this colonial penetration, so ably and lyrically portrayed in this novel, is known to us all.  <br />CITIES OF SALT, though without love or sex and without strong protagonists, is a lively, colorful, unique novel well-worth reading and free of diatribe.  I often thought of the Brazilian writers, Guimaraes Rosa and Amado, who brought whole worlds to life, onto the world stage.  Munif has done a similar job.  This novel should be much more widely known than it is.	2002-10-03
US	52761040	R31W7W7HYOKUHL	999741456X	243763988	Selected Stories of Sholom Aleichem	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A vanished world lives on in print	Thanks to two monsters called Hitler and Stalin and a host of assisting goblins, demons, devils, and ghouls that appeared in all too human form, an entire world disappeared from the face of the earth.  For some people, the extinction of East European Jewry is just one of the tragedies of history, but for me, it is personal.  Maybe I'd rather be American anyway, maybe that world would have been too narrow for me in my late 20th century wanderlust, but I never got to decide for myself.  Hitler killed off the millions, and Stalin destroyed the culture of those who survived.  Like the artifacts of Native Americans preserved in countless museums, we have Jewish life in the shtetls of Ukraine, Belarus, Poland, and Lithuania in this strictly limited, printed version that sits on bookshelves.  There is no more literature on the way.  They destroyed it forever.  Will there be more Sholom Aleichems ?  Will there be other Isaac Bashevis Singers ?  Might as well ask if there will be new Sitting Bulls or Sequoyahs.  The Jews survive, as do the Indians, but we are no longer what we were.  We are branded \\"survivors\\".<br />So let's rejoice in what we have.  We have these beautiful stories that revel in Jewish life, even in its poverty and dirt.  Here are all the smart-alecks, the wise rabbis, the harrassed mothers,  the holidays, the roast duck, the crusts of bread, the shamas, the fishmonger, and of course, Tevye the Milkman, known thanks to \\"Fiddler on the Roof\\" to millions of people in the West.  Sholom Aleichem writes with humor, with style, and with that inner sadness that is inherent in all minority peoples living in difficult times.  Every story is filled with customs, expressions, ways of looking at the world that barely exist now.  Sholom Aleichem stories are my personal museum.  How could I not love them ?  How could I not rummage continually in this attic of my soul ?  This volume of 29 stories is only a beginning.  You can read \\"Mottel, the Cantor's Son\\", or \\"Some Laughter, Some Tears\\"---there are many books and editions.  While the stories are often told from a child's point of view and thus lack a certain psychological depth, and perhaps the author \\"begs the question' too often, by saying at the end, that he doesn't know what happened, Sholom Aleichem's stories cannot fail to charm.  The humor of our darker, more paranoid times of genocide, pollution, and terrorism may differ from what is found here, but it's a serious person indeed who will not at least crack a smile.  These are some of the great treasures of Yiddish literature.  Read them.  There are no more coming.aughter, Some Tears\\"---there are many books and editions.  While the stories are often told from a child's point of view and thus lack a certain psychological depth, and perhaps the author \\"begs the question' too often, by saying at the end, that he doesn't know what happened, Sholom Aleichem's stories cannot fail to charm.  The humor of our darker, more paranoid times of genocide, pollution, and terrorism may differ from what is found here, but it's a serious person indeed who will not at least crack a smile.  These are some of the great treasures of Yiddish literature.  Read them.  There are no more coming.	2002-09-12
US	52761040	R3OC4AI7F19A7F	0030069262	877830442	Ainu of the Northwest Coast of Southern Sakhalin (Case Study in Cultural Anthropology)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Interesting data squeezed into a well-worn frame	Holt, Rinehart and Winston published this huge series of ethnographies over at least 15 years, between 1960 and 1975, perhaps later.  They are ideal for students who want to get a basic idea of a particular group of people or for first-year students who need to get a feel for what ethnography is (or was).  This book on the Ainu of a small region of Sakhalin island covers the same territory as the others---economic activities, daily life, the life cycle of an individual, kinship and marriage, the community, social rank, and finally, beliefs, rituals and world view (i.e. religion).  Everything is presented in more or less severe description, with little chance for either anthropologist or the studied people to speak out.  It is anthropology in a rather dry mode and certainly without much reference to any sort of theory whatsoever.  I have used a number of books in this series.  They are very good for what they are----just don't have very high hopes about what you will get.  Other good ones I can recommend are Barnett's study of the Palauans, Friedl's study of a  Greek village, and Beals' study of a South Indian village.  They are out of date, but still useful for making students aware of what anthropology is (or used to be) about.<br />The Ainu of the northwest coast of southern Sakhalin all left their homeland after the war and fled to Japan to avoid the Russian army.  Thus, Ohnuki-Tierney's book is definitely a work of preservation, recording the ways of a culture that no longer exists.  She approaches the people sympathetically, giving us a clear picture of their life style, without really revealing anyone's life.  She also deals very well with the Ainu as a people, brushing aside all the mysticism and romantic nonsense once spread about \\"the lost Caucasian race of hairy Ainu\\" etc.  I learned a lot about the possible origins of the Ainu as well as their relationship with the Chinese and Japanese in previous centuries.  If a reader combines this book with Kayano Shigeru's \\"Our Land Was a Forest\\", a good picture of Ainu life in the 20th century can be acquired.  I recommend this book with the caveat that it represents an earlier style of anthropology that is no longer in fashion.  It can be useful nevertheless.geru's \\"Our Land Was a Forest\\", a good picture of Ainu life in the 20th century can be acquired.  I recommend this book with the caveat that it represents an earlier style of anthropology that is no longer in fashion.  It can be useful nevertheless.	2002-09-10
US	52761040	R1OA4L7PCS8F62	0813318807	221912712	Our Land Was A Forest: An Ainu Memoir (Transitions--Asia and the Pacific)	Books	4	23	23	N	N	&quot;The Vanishing Ainu&quot; are still there !	Sometimes the way things repeat themselves is uncanny.  Just as the American literature of the early 20th century reflected the idea that the Native Americans would soon vanish, and writers in Australia and New Zealand pontificated on similar lines on their aboriginal neighbors, so in Japan, the aboriginal Ainu have long since been labelled \\"mysterious, but vanishing\\".  To tell the truth, I thought they had already gone by the 1980s.  I was wrong.  Here is an autobiography, written by Kayano Shigeru, an Ainu of around 60 when he originally wrote, that informs us that the Ainu are far from gone.  Kayano is personally responsible for building up a collection of Ainu artifacts, for preserving a great number of `yukar' or epic poems, for writing an Ainu-Japanese dictionary, for helping establish Ainu language primary schools in Hokkaido, and working in the political sphere to improve the lot of Japan's only aboriginal people.  This memoir tells in very simple, matter-of-fact style about his early years of grinding poverty, the hardships suffered by all his fellow villagers, about being a draft laborer, about life hunting, fishing, and logging in the deep forests of Japan's northernmost island.  Kayano's life is not specifically \\"Ainu\\", it is life in a mixed world of changing conditions.  Japanese, Ainu, and even Western cultural strands mingle, but the author never tries to separate them.  Whatever Ainu people of his generation faced, that, for him, is Ainu life.  This is very effective in a way, though foreigners without much knowledge of Japan will be hard-pressed to figure out what is unique here.  Kayano tells a straightforward tale, but natural reticence and perhaps lack of higher education mean that he does not delve much into psychology, he seldom develops other characters.  A few sentences at most suffice.  He often reports events with little comment.  His feeling for his land and for his people's condition come straight from the heart, though.  Nobody can remain unmoved by that.<br />OUR LAND WAS A FOREST reminds me very much of Native American memoirs, though in this case there is no attempt whatsoever to play up \\"mystical\\" aspects or try to be a \\"wise, traditional guru\\".  The Ainu experience has been close to that of other aboriginal peoples from Siberia to Sydney, from Boston to Buenos Aires.  The harmony of their life in nature was disrupted by the coming of greater numbers of more organized, materialistic peoples.  The book is easily read and contains a number of useful black and white photographs.  If you need much background knowledge on the Ainu, this might not be the place to begin, but if you are looking for an interesting book on a little heard-from people, choose this one.n unmoved by that.<br />OUR LAND WAS A FOREST reminds me very much of Native American memoirs, though in this case there is no attempt whatsoever to play up \\"mystical\\" aspects or try to be a \\"wise, traditional guru\\".  The Ainu experience has been close to that of other aboriginal peoples from Siberia to Sydney, from Boston to Buenos Aires.  The harmony of their life in nature was disrupted by the coming of greater numbers of more organized, materialistic peoples.  The book is easily read and contains a number of useful black and white photographs.  If you need much background knowledge on the Ainu, this might not be the place to begin, but if you are looking for an interesting book on a little heard-from people, choose this one.	2002-09-05
US	52761040	R3JL1QZ0CQ25T0	0890969752	88669489	At Home in Texas: Early Views of the Land	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	The changing image of a faroff land	Americans, and probably many foreigners, carry a very definite image of Texas in their heads.  It's not a place like Delaware or Saskatchewan, known mostly to those who live there.  We know Texas from the Westerns and the soaps, from \\"Giant\\",  the novels of Larry McMurtry, and dozens of films, songs, and paintings.  We \\"know\\" Texas to be a warm-hearted, big-talking place of oil, cattle, vast landscapes, barbeque, chilli con carne, laissez faire capitalism, violence, and life sentences for carrying a little pot.  It's a place, in other words, full of contradictions.  AT HOME IN TEXAS amazes us because the original image of Texas, at least in the words of those who wrote about it between 1820 and 1870, was entirely different, but never small.<br />\\"Our ability to know the world in an unconscious or taken-for-granted sense is the heart of the experience of being at home.  It is that feeling of being familiar and comfortable in a place or situation.  The passage of time is necessary or the experience of place.  The individual develops a feeling of ease by repeated interactions with his or her world....\\"  Imagination and perception are important to understanding human attachment to the land.  We should recognize the role of attitudes and values in shaping the American landscape.  This is the often-stated, enormous theme of Doughty's book.  I feel that the author did not really come close to proving or establishing anything that resembles this.  We do not find \\"how settlers developed their view of Texas as home\\" in a volume of 145 pages.  The book cannot focus on the topic because he bit off more than he  could chew, if I may express myself so boldly.  We read descriptions by people at many moments in Texas history, but few show how those people changed over time.  Thus \\"development\\" is difficult to show since we are dealing with separate people at separate times.  They arrived in Texas with ideas shaped by their particular times.  However, it is still an interesting book which may stimulate a lot of thought as to how such a theme could be developed.<br />What we do get here is an interesting glimpse of Texan history---the development of the image of Texas in the world, if not in the minds of Texans.  The original Anglo settlers saw Texas as untamed wilderness.  Doughty notes the Puritan value still alive in America then of \\"man's destiny to redeem the wilderness\\".  Stephen Austin's writings may be taken as exemplary here.  After the wilderness was somewhat tamer, the now-familiar look of the landscape was emphasized by books, newspapers, journal articles, and travel guides which were read throughout eastern America and Europe.  Writers started likening Texas to a garden, a bounteous land---almost a virgin to be impregnated by the arriving colonists.  As time passed, the image of Texas came to be \\"Mediterranean\\", Texas compared favorably with Italy, Greece or Egypt !  Boosters picked up this image, emphasizing health and fertile soil, and used it to attract immigrants, though another reality soon impinged on new arrivals.  The decline and total disappearance of this `Classical\\" image is worth more than the few lines the author devotes to it.<br />If you come to this book with the intention of learning how settlers became attached to the land in Texas, I fear you may be disappointed.  (Hence 3 stars)  But, if you just want to read something interesting about Texas and about the process of writing history---definitely give AT HOME IN TEXAS a try.k which may stimulate a lot of thought as to how such a theme could be developed.  <br />What we do get here is an interesting glimpse of Texan history---the development of the image of Texas in the world, if not in the minds of Texans.  The original Anglo settlers saw Texas as untamed wilderness.  Doughty notes the Puritan value still alive in America then of \\"man's destiny to redeem the wilderness\\".  Stephen Austin's writings may be taken as exemplary here.  After the wilderness was somewhat tamer, the now-familiar look of the landscape was emphasized by books, newspapers, journal articles, and travel guides which were read throughout eastern America and Europe.  Writers started likening Texas to a garden, a bounteous land---almost a virgin to be impregnated by the arriving colonists.  As time passed, the image of Texas came to be \\"Mediterranean\\", Texas compared favorably with Italy, Greece or Egypt !  Boosters picked up this image, emphasizing health and fertile soil, and used it to attract immigrants, though another reality soon impinged on new arrivals.  The decline and total disappearance of this `Classical\\" image is worth more than the few lines the author devotes to it.  <br />If you come to this book with the intention of learning how settlers became attached to the land in Texas, I fear you may be disappointed.  (Hence 3 stars)  But, if you just want to read something interesting about Texas and about the process of writing history---definitely give AT HOME IN TEXAS a try.	2002-08-25
US	52761040	R1S92TK57E9O3	0156004011	163921219	The Stone Raft	Books	4	2	6	N	N	A Delight of Wit, A Dearth of Plot	One day Iberia breaks off from Europe.  It's clean, it's neat, almost nobody gets hurt.  Before you can say \\"Fernando Pessoa\\", Spain and Portugal are floating out into the Atlantic.  Geologists can't make head or tail of all this free-form continental drift, but what they don't cotton on to is that it's probably all due to a dog, people who draw a line in the sand, feel a certain dizziness, unravel a blue sock, and other minutiae.  Logic has nothing to do with what happens, in this book as well as in life.  We, the readers, are clued in by the author, who gathers all the \\"culprits\\" together in a group that then go on various \\"Iberiadas\\" around the stone raft, an immense vehicle that even swerves to miss the Azores.  Well, you guessed it, you are reading a fantasy.<br />  Saramago's strong suit is irony.  He's an extremely clever man with plenty of wit and humor to keep the reader amused for 292 pages, even though, as they all say, it is hard to translate humor.  Life is a comedy of errors, so it isn't implausible that if once a Portuguese nobleman went off in search of an imaginary island, a floating Iberian island could go off to sea in search of imaginary men.  Meanwhile, back on the pages, Saramago dispenses with ordinary little objects like question marks or quotation marks.  Perhaps it's because the whole book is a question or maybe it could be due to the fact that the author doesn't see much difference between questions and answers.  It could be your flavor of the moment, if missing punctuation is your thing.<br />  Well, OK, I admit it.  I could not figure out exactly what this novel is about, though I rather enjoyed it anyway.  Is it a political allegory about Iberia's cultural dis-similarities with Europe and a protest against Spain and Portugal's joining the EC ?  Is it about how the social edifice collapses (topic of many less-literary science fiction novels) in times of crisis ?  Is it a gentle reminder to readers about the possibility of change in life ?  That it shouldn't take geological transformation of the earth to allow them---if you remove people from their daily fetters, what miracles could they perform ?  After innumerable philosophical observations served up with admirable levity, our dear characters betray one another.  The magic is over.  Iberia screeches to a halt.  \\"Time and time again\\" we learn, \\"there are no riches whatsover, where, out of malice or ignorance, we promised we would find them.\\"  Our nowhere men (and women) return home.  Aren't they a bit like you or me ?  If allegories without clear meanings resonate in your bell tower, give Amazon a ring.  I can't call THE STONE RAFT a \\"thriller\\", but it's highly original writing for sure.life ?  That it shouldn't take geological transformation of the earth to allow them---if you remove people from their daily fetters, what miracles could they perform ?  After innumerable philosophical observations served up with admirable levity, our dear characters betray one another.  The magic is over.  Iberia screeches to a halt.  \\"Time and time again\\" we learn, \\"there are no riches whatsover, where, out of malice or ignorance, we promised we would find them.\\"  Our nowhere men (and women) return home.  Aren't they a bit like you or me ?  If allegories without clear meanings resonate in your bell tower, give Amazon a ring.  I can't call THE STONE RAFT a \\"thriller\\", but it's highly original writing for sure.	2002-08-23
US	52761040	R2B8UAOK7YBHJ9	0451526341	380925201	Animal farm: A Fairy Story	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Orwell Cans Communisms Conniving Comrades	If you know zilch about the history of the late, unlamented USSR, skip this book, you're not going to get it.  The more you know, the more you're bound to admire one of the 20th century's great satires---maybe its greatest.  Capitalism, Communism, Lenin, the October Revolution, the Interventions, Stalin, Trotsky, Beria, the KGB, Hitler and the Fascist invasion---all these and more are in there.  Orwell savagely attacks the Communist system as it turned out in fact in the USSR, not as it was originally envisioned.  Along the way, the various foibles of human nature and fatal tendencies of ruling classes everywhere are held up to his pitiless examination.  I will not give a runthrough of the story, but the idea is that animals, representing the working class, overthrow people, representing capitalists, and establish a workers' state---called Animal Farm.  Overall, Orwell leads to the question: haven't we gone beyond our abilities to control technology and scientific knowledge ?  Our political skills have not kept pace.<br />Since Orwell completed his novel in 1945, the last section of the book, about what would happen to the Soviet Union under Communist plutocrats, was necessarily speculation for him (not for us).  In some ways, ANIMAL FARM turned out to be uncannily correct, but in others, pass&eacute;, because we know what happened thanks to our 57 years' hindsight.  Orwell did not predict the rise of the satellite states in Eastern Europe and elsewhere, nor did he see that the building of heavy industry would be co-opted by the armaments race, bankrupting Animal Farm and ultimately bringing it down without a war.  But the pigs eventually did turn into humans (i.e. workers became capitalists).  Because Communism has crumbled, especially in the former USSR, people may feel ANIMAL FARM is no longer relevant.  That would be wrong. We can't justly distribute resources or maintain the planet's environment.  Think of the billions of impoverished people, massive pollution, the unending ecological destruction and the menace of genetically engineered everything.  Now, more than ever, it seems that our world is an Animal Farm.  When we protest, it is made perfectly clear to us---all animals are equal, but some are more equal than others. The Pigs, Dogs, and Sheep are always with us.  If you don't understand what I'm talking about, read this book.nending ecological destruction and the menace of genetically engineered everything.  Now, more than ever, it seems that our world is an Animal Farm.  When we protest, it is made perfectly clear to us---all animals are equal, but some are more equal than others. The Pigs, Dogs, and Sheep are always with us.  If you don't understand what I'm talking about, read this book.	2002-08-02
US	52761040	R75LJFKG7YLH1	0691007780	240493065	Negara: The Theatre State In Nineteenth-Century Bali	Books	5	21	21	N	N	""Tis nothing but a Magic Shadow-show"	Bali flits in and out of the Western imagination: Conradian tropic kingdoms, National Geographic star attraction, Mead-Covarrubias-Belo-Geertz himself, tourist paradise (ever-fading).  What is Bali all about besides emerald rice terraces, bare breasted beauties, cheap surfing holidays, and tremendously elaborate ceremonies featuring gamelan orchestras and graceful dancers ?  Bali is indeed a mystery.  If you approach NEGARA with the desire to learn more about this marvelous Indonesian island, you may go away disappointed.  There are no Balinese voices in the book; modern Bali is hardly discussed.<br />NEGARA is an important book, but for those who specialize in the study of Southeast Asian kingdoms, for those who would like to question the standard Western method of studying political power, and for those interested in 19th century Balinese history as interpreted by America's foremost anthropologist, who is rather more known for creative (I'm with him) interpretations than for intensive field work.  Geertz' work is going to last a very long time---something that can hardly be said about most anthropological writing.  The reason is that he constantly sees things in a different way and can express his vision very clearly.  His other books on Indonesia, for example \\"The Religion of Java\\", \\"Islam Observed\\", \\"Pedlars and Princes\\" and \\"Agricultural Involution\\" have all been classics for years.  His article on the Balinese cockfight is one of the most seminal anthropological pieces ever written.<br />The Balinese state did not specialize in tyranny, conquest or effective administration.  Its emphasis was on \\"spectacle, toward ceremony, toward the public dramatization of the ruling obsessions of Balinese culture:  social inequality and status pride.  It was a theatre state...\\"  All the elaborate productions created were \\"not means to political ends: they wre the ends themselves, they were what the state was for......Power served pomp, not pomp power.\\" (p.13)  Geertz spends most of the 136 page book proving this point.  [There are also 120 pages of notes.]  There are detailed discussions of descent groups, client relationships, three major varieties of village organization aimed at administration, irrigation, and worship, and the connection between court and village.  Then follows the scrutiny of ritual, ceremony, and symbols in Geertz' inimitable style.  The point must be taken:  Balinese society was one of unending rivalry for prestige among very-established levels of hierarchy which were, nonetheless, extremely fluid.  The endless reiteration in symbolic, ceremonial terms of a fixed set of relations made up the Balinese theater state.<br />NEGARA, not a new book, is by now established as a classic text in Anthropology courses, in Religious Studies, Political Science, and Southeast Asian Studies in universities around the world.  It portrays a political system that did not conform to the usual Western idea of what political power is all about.  Geertz writes that he wanted to write a poetics of power, not a mechanics.  He was successful.  Readers may wonder if the ability to command and use resources like land, water, timber, or the sea, if the ability to control labor, even if indirectly, if the ability to control power, even if sporadic, do not underlie theater productions in a more definite way.  But I think they will have to admit that NEGARA is a powerful politico-historical description that, for once, does not try to twist and mold the data to fit a traditional Western description of a political system.  Symbolic action is not at all limited to Indonesian islands.  Somebody may yet write a description of the USA as a \\"Theater State\\" albeit a very different one from old Bali.  NEGARA contains many challenges.  It is a great book.most of the 136 page book proving this point.  [There are also 120 pages of notes.]  There are detailed discussions of descent groups, client relationships, three major varieties of village organization aimed at administration, irrigation, and worship, and the connection between court and village.  Then follows the scrutiny of ritual, ceremony, and symbols in Geertz' inimitable style.  The point must be taken:  Balinese society was one of unending rivalry for prestige among very-established levels of hierarchy which were, nonetheless, extremely fluid.  The endless reiteration in symbolic, ceremonial terms of a fixed set of relations made up the Balinese theater state.  <br />NEGARA, not a new book, is by now established as a classic text in Anthropology courses, in Religious Studies, Political Science, and Southeast Asian Studies in universities around the world.  It portrays a political system that did not conform to the usual Western idea of what political power is all about.  Geertz writes that he wanted to write a poetics of power, not a mechanics.  He was successful.  Readers may wonder if the ability to command and use resources like land, water, timber, or the sea, if the ability to control labor, even if indirectly, if the ability to control power, even if sporadic, do not underlie theater productions in a more definite way.  But I think they will have to admit that NEGARA is a powerful politico-historical description that, for once, does not try to twist and mold the data to fit a traditional Western description of a political system.  Symbolic action is not at all limited to Indonesian islands.  Somebody may yet write a description of the USA as a \\"Theater State\\" albeit a very different one from old Bali.  NEGARA contains many challenges.  It is a great book.	2002-07-30
US	52761040	R1PCQTHPT949MD	0393003043	536575294	The Overcoat and Other Tales of Good and Evil	Books	3	8	12	N	N	Six tales don't constitute author's best work	This volume constitutes six stories by Gogol of which two are the most famous; \\"The Overcoat\\", a wonderful psychological story which was made into a film in the USSR many years ago, and \\"The Nose\\", a satire of Russian middle level officials of the early 19th century.  Taken as a book, though, these tales full of dreams, asides, and great prolixity are not a major literary landmark on the world stage.  Russian literature, as one of the world's greatest collections of works, offers a lot more in my opinion.  Gogol, while perhaps a brilliant star for some national literatures, can only be considered a minor writer in Russia, especially if read in English as translated by David Magarshack, whose style can hardly be called `contemporary'.  While it's true that Gogol had a good sense of humor, if a little bizarre, it comes across in this translation as childish.  (I must hasten to add that I don't know Russian.)<br />\\"The Terrible Vengeance\\" is a rather tedious fairy tale with an incestuous theme, while \\"The Portrait\\" bears some likeness to a certain, later work by Oscar Wilde.  Though the idea is interesting, Gogol, as in several other stories, just doesn't know when to let go.  The story \\"Ivan Fyodorovich Shponka and His Aunt\\" contains lively humor and many colorful characters.  I enjoyed it the most of all, but it was only the beginning of a larger work, which unfortunately seems never to have been completed.<br />Some analysts (see the Introduction by the translator)have read into Gogol's work pre-revolutionary predictions of violent change or a rising up of the lower classes.  I think such an idea is far-fetched.  Similarly, while it is true that Gogol's tales and stories do contain struggles between good and evil, the same can be said of an enormous number of folk tales, religious works, and literary pieces by writers in every language.  It is interesting to read Gogol's work to widen your knowledge of Russian and world literature.  That is a source of satisfaction, but perhaps not enough.  Several of the stories are good, but they don't measure up to his longer works---\\"Dead Souls\\" and \\"The Government Inspector\\".  I would read them first, before this lesser book.but perhaps not enough.  Several of the stories are good, but they don't measure up to his longer works---\\"Dead Souls\\" and \\"The Government Inspector\\".  I would read them first, before this lesser book.	2002-07-24
US	52761040	R22PY1TJYYWWAW	0140177396	371714764	Of Mice and Men	Books	5	2	2	N	N	"you're on your own, with no direction home"	...P>The best laid plans of mice and men oft go awry and many times it is due to the uncontrollable longing that nearly everyone has to belong somewhere, to have something we can call our own.  We can say too that our failures may be due to a state of mind or the wish to fill an endlessly yawning hole in the psyche.  Inner loneliness often drives us in our several directions towards fulfillment.  For drifters like George and Candy, it's a little piece of land that beckons; for Lennie, it's something soft and close---a dead mouse, a puppy, a piece of velvet.  For Curley's wife, that ultimate destination was love, attention, and recognition; for Crooks, respect and justice.  In OF MICE AND MEN, nobody gets what they want.  The novel, like life, is an unmitigated tragedy and we are our own worst enemies.<br />This is an American classic in the real sense of the word.  Though Bob Dylan's verses may not be totally precise in summing up the story, they certainly sum up my mood after putting down OF MICE AND MEN.  \\"Nobody tried to say a word, when they carried him out in jest.  Except of course the little neighbor boy, who carried him to rest.  And he just walked along alone, with his guilt so well concealed.  Muttering underneath his breath, \\"Nothing is revealed.\\"  Amen	2002-07-20
US	52761040	R1URRJTRJT4NRG	0140185976	304026032	The Moon and Sixpence (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	6	12	N	N	Virtual Gauguin...	If Gauguin, the painter, had been an Englishman, his life could very well have been as reconstructed by Maugham in this famous novel.  The main characters are few: the author cast as minor English writer, Strickland or the \\"Gauguin character\\", his first wife, a Dutch painter in Paris and his English wife.  A number of minor characters give intense color to much of the book and are very skillfully drawn.  Not just a biographical novel, which could have been interesting in itself, THE MOON AND SIXPENCE attempts to be a psychological study of an unusual person, a genius perhaps.  And there is no doubt---it succeeds.  Not only is a fascinating novel that will grip you for as long as it takes to read, it is a major work on the relationship of art, psychology and society.  The novel is one of the greatest of a very talented writer.  Maugham's overarching question is \\"what kind of person suddenly leaves a very mediocre, average life as a stockbroker---having shown absolutely no inclination for art---throws over his wife, his relatives, and everything he has ever known, to go to Paris to become an artist in the utmost poverty ?\\"  What makes a man do that ?  And how strange it is that he succeeds beyond anyone's wildest dreams.  Along the road of explanation, Maugham introduces many an interesting argument between humanism and cold rationality, between those who feel for others and those who only act for themselves.<br />  I like seashells, the treasures of the ocean, but I prefer to find them myself, buried in the sand or lying in a mess of seaweed.  I clean them off and they're mine.  I never buy them, polished and sterile, from a shop shelf.  That is, I don't like getting repeated \\"nuggets of wisdom\\", polished and presented to me by an author.  I prefer to stumble on them myself, pondering as I go.  What I do not particularly care for in this novel, which may put off readers (or, sure, may attract them) is the didactic, hectoring tone (leaving aside the rather misogynistic view of women).  Maugham insists on hitting the reader over the head, again and again, with his views...  \\"Suffering for the most part, makes men petty and vindicative\\" (p.64).  \\"There is no cruelty greater than a woman's to a man who loves her and whom she does not love; she has no kindness then, no tolerance even...\\" (p.114)  \\"...Man in moments of emotion expresses himself naturally in the terms of a novelette.\\" (p.135).  I can provide a lot more examples.  Maugham writes a tremendous story, a sensitive psychological portrait of a man who was contrary to what everyone had supposed him to be, a man possessed for years by a secret devil---Art.  The author insists that it is impossible to know exactly what a person will do, that it is impossible to fathom human nature.  He then fills his novel with endless little lectures, innumerable aphorisms, about human nature, thereby contradicting his own core theme.<br />It is still a great novel.istic view of women).  Maugham insists on hitting the reader over the head, again and again, with his views...   \\"Suffering for the most part, makes men petty and vindicative\\" (p.64).  \\"There is no cruelty greater than a woman's to a man who loves her and whom she does not love; she has no kindness then, no tolerance even...\\" (p.114)  \\"...Man in moments of emotion expresses himself naturally in the terms of a novelette.\\" (p.135).  I can provide a lot more examples.  Maugham writes a tremendous story, a sensitive psychological portrait of a man who was contrary to what everyone had supposed him to be, a man possessed for years by a secret devil---Art.  The author insists that it is impossible to know exactly what a person will do, that it is impossible to fathom human nature.  He then fills his novel with endless little lectures, innumerable aphorisms, about human nature, thereby contradicting his own core theme.  <br />It is still a great novel.	2002-07-04
US	52761040	R3G1LQPT11OORX	0060932678	495162113	The Autumn of the Patriarch (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	74	77	N	N	A Lie is More Useful than Love	This is not a novel with a story, though it is a monstrous tale.  It is a fantastic description of the rotten guts of tyranny.  Enormous, steaming sentences, reeking with exotic images and jaguar tracks contain a sorrowful epic of the surreal politics of hot, underdeveloped places that know more corruption than justice.  Weaving in and out, from one person's thoughts to another's, from one time to a second, with almost no dialogue, no conversation, no quotation marks, but moving from the mind of a general to dictator to \\"the people\\" to the female love interest and back again, Garcia Marquez spins a horrific story that is unlikely to be similar to anything you have read before.  Maybe you will be satisfied to read this as a `one-off' kind of book that demands your total attention, all your powers of imagination and your determination.  It is not a simple novel.  I realized that Milorad Pavic, the Serbian author of fantastic tales, owes much to Garcia Marquez, sometimes even images (eggs of a certain day, news-spreading parrots).<br />The \\"Patriarch\\" is the ur-dictator, the tyrant personified, an old man who never steps down, who rules behind a double whose death thus gives rise to a legend of immortality.  The dictator's underlings invent Potemkin everything; his palace is full of cripples, blind people, lepers, and domestic animals; he is a monster who, like all the tyrants he represents, cannot love, but only cultivate power.  There is his mother, who failed to be a saint, the dynamited clergyman, the roasted general, the nun-mistress, the murdered children, the wife eaten by dogs.  Was there anything he did not violate or corrupt ?  Garcia Marquez gives one of the best-written pictures of the corruption of absolute power.  The dictator is unnamed, perhaps a composite of Colombians, perhaps more.  We find Stalin in him, Hitler, Mao, Idi Amin, and Saddam Hussain.  And the reaction of the crowd, the mass, is the same every time.  \\"The only thing that gave us security on earth,\\" they say, \\"was the certainty that he was there....dedicated to the messianic happiness of thinking for us, knowing that we knew that he would not take any decision for us that did not have our measure...\\"  In the end, they mourned him---as Russians did mourn Stalin---despite the massacres, the coups and brutal suppressions, the repression of religion, the selling off of every resource the country had---because they had wound up not knowing what would become of them without him.<br />Brilliant imagery, product of a fantastic imagination, that pours out on the pages, seemingly with endless abundance, can only dazzle a reader.  It's a stunning novel whose moral may be that \\"a lie is more comfortable than doubt, more useful than love, more lasting than truth..\\"  The person who understands and exploits this is the most dangerous type of human being.  Unfortunately they exist in all countries and have appeared throughout history.  THE AUTUMN OF THE PATRIARCH is not really a South American, magico-realist novel, though it is that.  It is a painting of the human tragedy.on earth,\\" they say, \\"was the certainty that he was there....dedicated to the messianic happiness of thinking for us, knowing that we knew that he would not take any decision for us that did not have our measure...\\"  In the end, they mourned him---as Russians did mourn Stalin---despite the massacres, the coups and brutal suppressions, the repression of religion, the selling off of every resource the country had---because they had wound up not knowing what would become of them without him.  <br />Brilliant imagery, product of a fantastic imagination, that pours out on the pages, seemingly with endless abundance, can only dazzle a reader.  It's a stunning novel whose moral may be that \\"a lie is more comfortable than doubt, more useful than love, more lasting than truth..\\"  The person who understands and exploits this is the most dangerous type of human being.  Unfortunately they exist in all countries and have appeared throughout history.  THE AUTUMN OF THE PATRIARCH is not really a South American, magico-realist novel, though it is that.  It is a painting of the human tragedy.	2002-06-29
US	52761040	R2GUFODFMRU0J7	0140185151	331648920	The Fixer (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	In the Ocean of This World, Justice is Just a Minnow	My grandparents fled Tsarist Russia and I've never been under any illusions why.  All my life I have thanked them and blessed them in my heart.  America may be far from perfect, maybe it has grown into a fat, arrogant bully wallowing in corruption, but if you want to know a worse alternative, read Malamud's THE FIXER.  A Jew, guilty only of the \\"crime\\" of living in a district of Kiev forbidden to Jews, is framed for a murder.  Not just an ordinary murder, it is claimed, but a ritual one.  Yakov Bok, who earned his living fixing things for people (hence the title), is charged by an anti-Semitic legal and social system with murdering a Christian boy in order to use his blood to make Passover matzos.  The whole weight of government, church, and society is brought to bear on a poor Jew, who can discuss Spinoza and wallpaper apartments, but can find no way out of his frightful dilemma.  Where is reason ? he asks as he spends years in prison with no action taken, where is justice ?  \\"What a strange and extraordinary thing for someone like himself....to have as his sworn and bitter enemies the Russian State, through its officials and Tsar, for no better reason than that he was born a Jew, therefore their appointed enemy....\\" (p.223)  Malamud constantly uses dreams and visions to illustrate a situation beyond all practical imagining.  The novel is not for readers who want light, optimistic fare---the dark side of human nature is never more evident than here.  If Toni Morrison were Jewish, she would have written on a similar topic.  At the end, in an inner dialogue with the Tsar himself, the imprisoned Bok condemns the Tsar and Malamud asserts, in effect, that the revolution was inevitable.  Was all the evil of that old system  expunged ?  Unfortunately, no, it was preserved by a failed attempt at change that froze so many pre-1917 values.<br />As I read, thunder rolled in the great dark clouds of my mind, my anger boiled over continually. How could they be so evil ?  How could people keep repeating the same rubbish today ?  How can Russian fascists keep these ugly tales of fantasy alive ?  But anger is not the answer.  In another compartment of my mind, this novel reminded me constantly, consistently of only one thing---the treatment of African Americans through most of the history of my dear America.  So, let's not point fingers, but understand what ignorance, bigotry, and hate may wreak.  This is a most powerful subject and a most powerful novel, probably Malamud's best.could people keep repeating the same rubbish today ?  How can Russian fascists keep these ugly tales of fantasy alive ?  But anger is not the answer.  In another compartment of my mind, this novel reminded me constantly, consistently of only one thing---the treatment of African Americans through most of the history of my dear America.  So, let's not point fingers, but understand what ignorance, bigotry, and hate may wreak.  This is a most powerful subject and a most powerful novel, probably Malamud's best.	2002-06-28
US	52761040	R2GJU7GJC8KU0Q	0140261907	876416914	A Woman in Amber: Healing the Trauma of War and Exile	Books	5	28	31	N	N	Honest memoir of suffering makes painful reading	Suffering is not good for the soul, no matter what anyone tells you.  There is nothing redemptive about it.  The pain continues long after the actual experience is over.  You do not become a better person because you have endured much, though perhaps your patience increases.  No, we don't learn lessons from reading about others' suffering, even from such a well-written book as Nesaule's.  Her life is not an example to anybody.  Certainly not an inspiration.  If you keep your eyes and ears open in life, and don't watch too much TV,  you cannot but become aware of a huge amount of suffering and pain in the world.  Whether abroad---during World War II, in Korea or Vietnam, or in the myriad wars and dictatorships of the late 20th century-or at home thanks to racism, poverty, substance abuse or simple human cruelty, we should be no strangers to the tragedy of life on earth.<br /><br />A WOMAN IN AMBER describes a life broken by war, dislocation and brutality.  Darkness surrounded Agate Nesaule at an early age, a gray cloud that did not begin to dissipate for nearly forty years.  After early childhood happiness in Latvia, her homeland was occupied by Russians, then Germans, then Russians again.  Obviously fearing the Russians more, when Soviet forces loomed on the horizon in 1944, the family fled to Germany, a refugee camp where Jews and Gypsies were sought out and taken away.  Then came the raping, thieving Soviet forces, a dramatic escape to the British-occupied zone of Berlin, and five years of life in the DP camps.  In 1950, the whole family, still miraculously together, emigrated to Indianapolis to begin the hard process of rebuilding a life in America.  Life in the slums, little income, sub-standard housing, but at least the chance for education followed.  Nesaule made a disastrous marriage to a repulsive, manipulative slob of an American, perhaps the worst choice possible, and stayed with him for over twenty years.  Through everything, she longed for a close, open relationship with others, especially her mother, but could not achieve it, thanks to her own unfortunate choices.  At last, divorced, she reached some peace thanks to an understanding psychiatrist and a decent, loving man.  For years, the writer could not distinguish normal authority and everyday forms of social control from stark, cruel, and arbitrary forms found in squalid refugee camps, under foreign military regimes, or in the hearts of parents in the most extreme situations.  At times, Nesaule seems to take a perverse pleasure in her pain, but I felt that this emerges due to her extreme honesty, her attempt to plumb the depths of her feeling in order to arrange it on paper, and remove from her psyche all those feelings warped and twisted by war, by the desperation of her childhood.<br />  The question a reader must ask, as does the author, is how many more Agates are there out there?  In Bosnia, Kosovo, Palestine, Chechnya, Ethiopia, Sudan, Angola, Congo, Liberia, Vietnam, Cambodia, Timor, Colombia, Nicaragua, and dozens of other places ?  A WOMAN IN AMBER is the moving story of a sensitive personality crushed by hardship and brutality, skewed to accept ruinous relationships because all self-confidence had been lost.  The use of dreams to further self-understanding is extremely effective.  As a Jew, whose extended family in the Baltic area was totally annihilated by the Germans (and their local minions) during WW II, I was not inclined to be sympathetic at first to a Latvian woman whose family, after all, must have lived comfortably through that same time, but I soon relented as I read on because self-pity is entirely absent.  Suffering is universal, even if human brotherhood, of which we dream, is nowhere in sight.  Perhaps sharing that suffering is, indeed, the very brotherhood we seek.  Bleak conclusion.  Read this book, you can't fail to be moved by the honesty and lack of nationalistic drivel.relationship with others, especially her mother, but could not achieve it, thanks to her own unfortunate choices.  At last, divorced, she reached some peace thanks to an understanding psychiatrist and a decent, loving man.  For years, the writer could not distinguish normal authority and everyday forms of social control from stark, cruel, and arbitrary forms found in squalid refugee camps, under foreign military regimes, or in the hearts of parents in the most extreme situations.  At times, Nesaule seems to take a perverse pleasure in her pain, but I felt that this emerges due to her extreme honesty, her attempt to plumb the depths of her feeling in order to arrange it on paper, and remove from her psyche all those feelings warped and twisted by war, by the desperation of her childhood.  <br />   The question a reader must ask, as does the author, is how many more Agates are there out there?  In Bosnia, Kosovo, Palestine, Chechnya, Ethiopia, Sudan, Angola, Congo, Liberia, Vietnam, Cambodia, Timor, Colombia, Nicaragua, and dozens of other places ?  A WOMAN IN AMBER is the moving story of a sensitive personality crushed by hardship and brutality, skewed to accept ruinous relationships because all self-confidence had been lost.   The use of dreams to further self-understanding is extremely effective.  As a Jew, whose extended family in the Baltic area was totally annihilated by the Germans (and their local minions) during WW II, I was not inclined to be sympathetic at first to a Latvian woman whose family, after all, must have lived comfortably through that same time, but I soon relented as I read on because self-pity is entirely absent.  Suffering is universal, even if human brotherhood, of which we dream, is nowhere in sight.  Perhaps sharing that suffering is, indeed, the very brotherhood we seek.  Bleak conclusion.  Read this book, you can't fail to be moved by the honesty and lack of nationalistic drivel.	2002-05-30
US	52761040	R32RKI2IPTHG11	0804713448	404894788	History and Magical Power in a Chinese Community	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Anthropologist bites off big chunk, chews well	Writing anthropology presents many tactical problems.  Your data covers vast expanses of life, you can go in many directions.  Should you include ethnographic detail or should you go for the big picture ?  Should you try to depict what you want to say through the lives of a few individuals or should you remain general ?  Some writers avoid discussion of theory and write descriptive ethnographies, others weave complex webs that connect numerous theories and famous authors of the past, trying to steer a course towards some and away from others.  Often anthropologists fall through one of the many cracks that gape along the path towards a successful book, usually by trying to do everything at once.  Not so Sangren's interesting work on Taiwan.  The description is rich, with excellent maps and photographs, but he strongly connects his work to theory.  I would say HISTORY AND MAGICAL POWER... is worth reading, not because the author introduces interesting individuals or amusing descriptions of events, but because he \\"bounces off\\" many writers of the older school, i.e. those of structuralist-functionalist ideas such as Dumont, Durkheim, Freedman, Leach, Levi-Strauss, Sahlins, Skinner, and Turner.  Though the book was published in 1987, it does not engage in the post-structuralist, literary criticism-based anthropology of these last years.  I, for one, find both schools equally challenging.<br />  The writer states that he wants to investigate how categories of thought are reproduced in Chinese institutions and how Chinese institutions reproduce categories of Chinese thought.  He consciously rejects the old oppositions of \\"elite/folk\\", \\"text/ritual\\" or \\"great tradition/little tradition\\" saying that all these categories are found in each Chinese institution.  He prefers to set up an objectivist perspective, though I am not sure that that is possible.  In any case, Sangren then guides the reader through a discussion of the ritual construction of social space, dealing with folk religion, cults and pilgrimages associated with a particular geographic area, south of Taipei and connected ritual actions, bringing in a description of the economic and administrative systems as well.  Further on, he connects the concept of yin and yang to ideas of order and disorder, then talks of orthodoxy and heterodoxy, pilgrimage, spirits and social identity.  Finally there is a section on the social construction of power.<br /><br />I admired this book because the author is widely read and does not hesitate to bring in examples from societies outside East Asia, (many anthropologists blinker themselves to one region, even though their training should promote the opposite).  I found that the many theoretical issues taken up and points raised were useful for me in my work, though I am very far from a China specialist.  I also admired the book because Sangren thinks broadly, makes many interesting connections, and constantly creates sparks that may light a fire in your own, private anthropological thought.  If he didn't, ultimately, reach the goal that he aimed at, he came close, he created a book that should be of great interest to China experts and also to anyone interested in relating institutions and culture.  This is not a book you can sit down and read for fun.  It requires serious thought, but it is well worth your time.  I feel it is a shame that such a book remains relatively unknown, while many lesser books attract more attention.lk religion, cults and pilgrimages associated with a particular geographic area, south of Taipei and connected ritual actions, bringing in a description of the economic and administrative systems as well.  Further on, he connects the concept of yin and yang to ideas of order and disorder, then talks of orthodoxy and heterodoxy, pilgrimage, spirits and social identity.  Finally there is a section on the social construction of power.  <BR> <BR>I admired this book because the author is widely read and does not hesitate to bring in examples from societies outside East Asia, (many anthropologists blinker themselves to one region, even though their training should promote the opposite).  I found that the many theoretical issues taken up and points raised were useful for me in my work, though I am very far from a China specialist.  I also admired the book because Sangren thinks broadly, makes many interesting connections, and constantly creates sparks that may light a fire in your own, private anthropological thought.  If he didn't, ultimately, reach the goal that he aimed at, he came close, he created a book that should be of great interest to China experts and also to anyone interested in relating institutions and culture.  This is not a book you can sit down and read for fun.  It requires serious thought, but it is well worth your time.  I feel it is a shame that such a book remains relatively unknown, while many lesser books attract more attention.	2002-05-27
US	52761040	RNR71SWB9X5I8	0685583414	788241687	Le Colonel Chabert (in French) (French Edition)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Dead Men Do Tell Tales	Balzac, one of the greatest writers who ever lived, did not trip up with this one.  I read it with great pleasure and conclude, as people so often say, that the movie based on the story did not equal the original.  Ever the cynic (some might say 'the realist') Balzac portrays here the efforts of a noble-minded soldier, who rose from an orphanage to serve his country under Napoleon in Egypt and eastern Europe, only to reap the all-too-common fate of dedicated and true warriors---to be forgotten and ignored.  Death (which he accepted) might have seized him, but he found a living death, a denial of his sanity and identity, as the reward of his service.  Reported killed at the battle of Eylau, against the Russians, after a heroic action, the soldier literally crawls from his grave to a kind of shadowy survival.  In his earlier life, Colonel Chabert had raised a woman to his own status, but now finds that she is unwilling to let others learn of her origins and does not want to recognize that he is, in fact, her long lost husband. Honestly thinking she was widowed, she married a highborn aristocrat who knew nothing of her humble beginnings.<br />  The tale is one of greed, intrigue, loyalty and disloyalty.  As usual, Balzac manages to cast a light, pitiless and bright, on every rotten corner of the human condition, while offering a few inspiring examples in contrast.  Every detail of a lawyer's life in 19th century Paris is scrutinized, every glimpse of urban dairyman or elite country squirehood rings true.  No wonder I admire him so much, no wonder I have no hesitation in urging you to read COLONEL CHABERT and any other volume of Balzac you can lay your hands on.	2002-05-26
US	52761040	R3SUT6QCK0HKVV	0821408712	49882011	Slaves Spices and Ivory in Zanzibar (Eastern African studies)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	detailed economic history of an East African island	In the 17th century, Oman drove out the Portuguese, who had occupied key coastal forts, and abandoning both their isolation and religious puritanism, became a commercial power in the Indian Ocean.  Over the 18th century, through a combination of military and commercial means, not to mention propitious marriages, they came to control the East African coast from what is now southern Somalia, down to Mozambique.  Their rule, centered on the island of Zanzibar, was limited to a series of ports and forts, seldom extending far inland.  The Omanis made a lot of money from the slave trade, exporting them to Arabia, India, and the burgeoning sugar islands of Mauritius and La Reunion.  As a rising power in the region, Britain attempted to suppress the slave trade, not always from the purest motives.  When the export of Africans became difficult, the Omanis turned to clove plantations, using slave labor to work the crop.  They also grew sugarcane and coconuts in Zanzibar and on Pemba, a neighboring island, and grain and oilseeds on the mainland.  After a period of great profits, overproduction collapsed the clove business, plus the Omani slaveowning landords had become indebted to Indian moneylenders and customs agents. British power,looming ever larger, succeeded in separating Zanzibar from Oman, making two weaker kingdoms.  But luckily for the Zanzibari ruling class, the rapidly industrializing West and its newly rich bourgeois craved exotic products.  At the same time, industrial goods were coming down in price, thanks to wider and higher rates of production.  Ivory, culled from Africa's then-magnificent herds of elephants, filled the gap left by the decline of clove growing.  A vast trade network, dealing both in ivory and slaves, grew up covering a huge area from southern Sudan to the Caprivi Strip in Namibia and emerging from the roadless bush to a number of traditional ports on the east coast.  Zanzibar traded in goods derived from the mainland (78% of exports came from there in the 1860s), and prevented other powers from dealing with the Africans directly.  The British eventually suppressed the slave trade completely, ruining the country economically and forcing Zanzibar into protectorate status in 1890.<br />That is the story in brief.  Dr. Sheriff has written a detailed history from the economic point of view, rather than from the more conventional direction of rulers, diplomats, treaties, and military moves.  He studies classes, products, and means of production and does not offer any moral lectures on the evils of slavery.  I would guess that it was a mighty job to gather all the material, especially since, as he notes in just one small place, he could not get access to the Zanzibar records.  This is reflected in the bibliographic notes, where he lists the archives he consulted-in the UK, USA, France, and India. The book abounds with maps, charts, diagrams, old lithographs and photographs (though his chapter on the hinterlands is full of place names that do not appear on any map !---not an easy haul for non-specialists.)  As I live less than two miles from Salem, Mass. I was very interested to see the major role that traders from there had played in Zanzibar history.  The American consul was long an important figure in Zanzibar and during the American Civil War, the Zanzibari economy took a nose dive.  These are all aspects of my own local history that I was completely unaware of.<br /><br />  In short, this is a fascinating history of a little-known part of the world which shows how it was inexorably tied in to the global capitalist network.  It is not for general readers, but must be considered a major work for specialists, students of African history, and those interested in economic history.  I am glad I ran across it.there in the 1860s), and prevented other powers from dealing with the Africans directly.  The British eventually suppressed the slave trade completely, ruining the country economically and forcing Zanzibar into protectorate status in 1890.  <br />That is the story in brief.  Dr. Sheriff has written a detailed history from the economic point of view, rather than from the more conventional direction of rulers, diplomats, treaties, and military moves.  He studies classes, products, and means of production and does not offer any moral lectures on the evils of slavery.  I would guess that it was a mighty job to gather all the material, especially since, as he notes in just one small place, he could not get access to the Zanzibar records.  This is reflected in the bibliographic notes, where he lists the archives he consulted-in the UK, USA, France, and India. The book abounds with maps, charts, diagrams, old lithographs and photographs (though his chapter on the hinterlands is full of place names that do not appear on any map !---not an easy haul for non-specialists.)  As I live less than two miles from Salem, Mass. I was very interested to see the major role that traders from there had played in Zanzibar history.  The American consul was long an important figure in Zanzibar and during the American Civil War, the Zanzibari economy took a nose dive.  These are all aspects of my own local history that I was completely unaware of.  <BR>  <BR>   In short, this is a fascinating history of a little-known part of the world which shows how it was inexorably tied in to the global capitalist network.  It is not for general readers, but must be considered a major work for specialists, students of African history, and those interested in economic history.  I am glad I ran across it.	2002-05-15
US	52761040	R2LDOWHQ6CQBQ8	0679741933	977039001	The Wild Palms	Books	5	70	71	N	N	How inevitable the wheels of unkind fate	Faulkner is not everybody's cup of tea, but he happens to be my favorite American writer.  While the critics and all those \\"best books of the century\\" lists consistently feature \\"The Sound and the Fury\\", \\"Absalom, Absalom\\" and maybe \\"As I Lay Dying\\" as Faulkner's major works--and I too like those books--I have always thought THE WILD PALMS a gem.  An underrated, forgotten gem.  Perhaps it really isn't his best novel, but still it is a work of genius.  I recently re-read it.<br />Very few novels on the world stage are composed of two completely separate stories.  THE WILD PALMS consists of 1) a love story in 1938, taking place in New Orleans, Chicago, Wisconsin, Utah, San Antonio, and the Mississippi Gulf coast, and 2) the story of one man (a prisoner) and his mighty ordeal during the Mississippi River floods of 1927.  Parchman State Prison in Mississippi is the sole physical point that joins the two tales, otherwise separate in time, place, class, and impulse.  But Faulkner's genius is such that the reader soon understands that the theme of both stories is the same.  Faulkner's novels often focus on Fate, how the individual is caught in mysterious, giant webs of `outrageous fortune' beyond comprehension, helpless to oppose the powerful, hidden currents.  The present volume is no exception.  \\"You are born submerged in anonymous lockstep\\"--the main character of story #1 muses on page 54--\\"with the seeming anonymous myriads of your time and generation; you get out of step once, falter once, and you are trampled to death.\\"  In the first case, Wilbourne and Charlotte deviate from the usual path for love's sake, strive mightily to maintain and cherish that love, and pay an inevitable price.  In the second, a convict is caught in a flood in a tiny boat when sent to save two people.  He rescues one, but is swept away.  He completes his mission, returning both boat and rescued woman, despite incredible hardships, only to face a certain ironic destiny.  In both cases, other lives or other destinies constantly present themselves, but the protagonists refuse to alter their selected course.  It is the antithesis to the Hollywood message that \\"you can be whatever you want in life, you just have to want it badly enough\\".  Faulkner plumps for Destiny.  A person might be, he says on page 266, \\"...no more than the water bug upon the surface of the pond, the plumbless and lurking depths of which he would never know...\\" one's only contact with such depths being when Fate is blindly accepted and played out to the bitter end.  The forces of Nature, symbolized by the wild clashing of the palm fronds in the winds off the Gulf of Mexico, always outweigh the strength of human beings.  The palms clash in the wind at the beginning and at the very end as well.  Faulkner concludes that bearing grief, living with it, is better than suicide, better than obliterating the agonies of remembrance with a pill or bullet.  Memory, however, bitter and painful, is better than nothingness.  The two main characters end in prison, a most un-optimistic metaphor for life.  A most powerful novel, a novel that speaks from the crocodile-haunted deeps of every person's psyche.ives or other destinies constantly present themselves, but the protagonists refuse to alter their selected course.  It is the antithesis to the Hollywood message that \\"you can be whatever you want in life, you just have to want it badly enough\\".  Faulkner plumps for Destiny.  A person might be, he says on page 266, \\"...no more than the water bug upon the surface of the pond, the plumbless and lurking depths of which he would never know...\\" one's only contact with such depths being when Fate is blindly accepted and played out to the bitter end.  The forces of Nature, symbolized by the wild clashing of the palm fronds in the winds off the Gulf of Mexico, always outweigh the strength of human beings.  The palms clash in the wind at the beginning and at the very end as well.  Faulkner concludes that bearing grief, living with it, is better than suicide, better than obliterating the agonies of remembrance with a pill or bullet.  Memory, however, bitter and painful, is better than nothingness.  The two main characters end in prison, a most un-optimistic metaphor for life.  A most powerful novel, a novel that speaks from the crocodile-haunted deeps of every person's psyche.	2002-04-28
US	52761040	R36Y7LZHHKI2BU	0394702409	223172492	The Sibyl	Books	3	8	14	N	N	an earnest parable about the nature of God	As Nobel Prize winner for Literature in 1951, Par Lagerkvist must be recognized as one of Sweden's great authors.  I know virtually nothing else about him.  This was the first book of his that I ever read.  I cannot say that I was moved to want to continue.  THE SIBYL is a thin volume, a tale, a fable, a parable, not a novel in the usual sense of the word.  A wanderer (see the legend of the Wandering Jew) appears above the town of Delphi in the first century A.D.  He hails from Jerusalem and has been cursed by Jesus for an act of unkindness on his way to the crucifixion.  The wanderer appears at Delphi looking for someone who can foretell if he really is condemned to wander forever.  The only hope turns out to be a social outcast, an old woman living high on the mountain above town.  He tells her his story, briefly.  The rest of the book is her story---of how she became the vessel through which the oracle spoke and her single, ill-fated love, a cruel rape, and subsequent disgrace.  Lagerkvist deals with eternal issues.  God is cruel, incomprehensible and frightening, he says.  His acts have no meaning discernible by humans.  But He is also good and full of a meaning (which we cannot understand). God's connection to Man is both a blessing and a curse.  Scandinavian gloom spreads and spreads and, in this age of terrorism, poverty, hunger, and ecological disaster, you feel that you have heard this all before.  In fact, you have seen the proof of it all around you.  Do you need to read about it again, cloaked in antiquity's faded garments ?  I did not particularly enjoy this book, though it is certainly well-written and intelligent. Pessimistic messages are common in literature; so is the consideration of the largest issues.  I felt that this tale was a little too didactic, a little too preachy for my taste.	2002-04-22
US	52761040	R28PHUZFISRQFW	0226774066	223570832	Breakout: Profiles in African Rhythm	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Book on African pop music stars fails to shine	Ever since the early 1960s, when I had a Ghanaian roommate and attended some enormous Nigerian student parties in which the old wooden buildings fairly shook to the beat of highlife records, I have loved African pop music.  Whether West African highlife, the Congolese music later known as soukous, Nigerian juju music with \\"King\\" Sunny Ade and Ebenezer Obey, the township jive and mbaqanga of South Africa, or the exciting rhythms and griot style singing of Senegal and Mali, I've been listening all these years.  Listening.  Not reading.  Come to think of it, I really did not know much about the people who made all this music.  I picked up BREAKOUT as an antidote to my lack of knowledge, hoping to learn more about the whole African music scene as well.<br />Gary Stewart obviously likes African pop music and has a wide familiarity with all the records, tapes, and styles that exist, at least in his chosen areas----Sierra Leone, Ghana, Nigeria, Congo, and Tanzania.  His 1992 book is a collection of 14 sketches of individual musicians, compiled by interview or general media sources.  Some interviews, for example, those with Olatunji and Fela, are far more interesting and colorful than others which remain very bland and general.  Several patterns emerge--the difficulty of getting started in countries where average income is low and instruments are expensive; the difficulty of breaking into the Euro-American markets and music scene.  The author's own comments on African pop music or the musicians are missing, as is an organized, overall picture of pop music in West and Central Africa.  (The above-mentioned trials and tribulations of being a pop musician in Africa do emerge from the text, albeit in haphazard fashion.)  I suppose we must wait for Stewart's second book or turn somewhere else.  BREAKOUT remains impenetrable for the average reader who does not already know quite a bit about African music.  Stewart snows you under with a huge deluge of names---bands, musicians, studio owners, impresarios, etc.-as well as song and album titles, so much so that at times, the book resembles a catalogue.  I discovered that I had a treasure here---when I go shopping for African CDs or tapes, I can use BREAKOUT as a guide.  In this way, I would say the book is extremely useful, but to sit down and read from cover to cover, well, maybe 3 stars are enough.udio owners, impresarios, etc.-as well as song and album titles, so much so that at times, the book resembles a catalogue.  I discovered that I had a treasure here---when I go shopping for African CDs or tapes, I can use BREAKOUT as a guide.  In this way, I would say the book is extremely useful, but to sit down and read from cover to cover, well, maybe 3 stars are enough.	2002-04-17
US	52761040	R27ACAYR0WY2S	0686557891	451153107	Madeleine Ferat (French Edition)	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Love tryst soured, super-sensitive duo goes haywire	Well, live and learn as they say.  I always thought of Emile Zola as one of the greats, the author of such classics as \\"Germinal\\" and \\"Nana\\", the hero of the Dreyfus trial, and so on.  But it seems that back in the early days, before he bounded onto the world stage, Zola produced a fairly large number of potboilers.  Who knew ?  He's always strong on atmosphere, on the details of 19th century French life-the parlors, the inns, the gardens, the more decadent parts of the city-and he's a master of human psychology.  Still, as I read through MADELEINE FERAT, I had this sinking feeling that I had fallen into a Harlequin romance of bygone years.  The lurid details, the many lyrical interludes, the melodrama, corny dialogue, [Example: after the death of his closest friend, the hero says to the heroine on p.71  \\"The dear fellow !  Now he has gone from us, he is no more, and I am an orphan.  But he will always live in me, I have lost my brother......Now, Madeleine, I have only you.\\" ] and above all, the fantastic coincidences that reminded me so much of Bombay movies, put me off.  If I needed this sort of book, I could find a million at any local yard sale, embossed in gold and silver cardboard.  Zola is a name to reckon with, but he probably wrote this for a bit of cash. (He definitely didn't write it for the movies.)  Also, I remember as I review this book that Theodore Dreiser's \\"Sister Carrie\\" was held up from publication in America for many years because the publishers felt it was too close to pornographic---all because she lived with a man she didn't marry. When I read it in the 1970s, the word 'pornographic' certainly never came to mind !  The Victorian prudery of British and American literature in the 1860s and `70s (not to mention later) is well known.  So the frankly sexual imagery and situations found in Zola's work, hardly remarkable now, must have been extremely titillating and exciting to young people in those days.  Zola would have been guaranteed a large audience.<br />One very interesting thing emerged.  The book is based on the idea that a woman's first sexual experience leaves an indelible imprint.  So, if she does not marry her first lover, it is futile for her to try to have a normal life outside that first relationship.  (p.164) \\"If her heart no longer loved Jacques, the fatal memory of her flesh was unchanged.\\"  And even more amazing, readers of the time apparently could swallow the idea that thinking of a former lover during the sex act could make the resulting child look like the non-present lover !  This, intones Zola, by a psychological process still unknown.  If this sort of stuff is your bread and butter, you are going to love MADELEINE FERAT.  Otherwise, give it a miss.dience.<br />One very interesting thing emerged.  The book is based on the idea that a woman's first sexual experience leaves an indelible imprint.  So, if she does not marry her first lover, it is futile for her to try to have a normal life outside that first relationship.  (p.164) \\"If her heart no longer loved Jacques, the fatal memory of her flesh was unchanged.\\"   And even more amazing, readers of the time apparently could swallow the idea that thinking of a former lover during the sex act could make the resulting child look like the non-present lover !  This, intones Zola, by a psychological process still unknown.  If this sort of stuff is your bread and butter, you are going to love MADELEINE FERAT.  Otherwise, give it a miss.	2002-04-10
US	52761040	R2O7UM597TLE60	0813016363	667789955	Florida Indians and the Invasion from Europe	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A tragic history seen through an archaeological filter	Many years ago I happened to visit the Florida Museum of Natural History in Gainesville.  As an anthropologist who worked in Asia and taught in Australia, I wasn't extremely familiar with Florida history, but I thought I knew something about the Indians.  I had even spent a couple days on the Mikasuki reservation many years before then.  Florida's native Americans were the Seminoles and Mikasuki, right ?  Wrong !  I was stunned to learn of the true pattern on that fortuitous visit.  By the 1760s, Florida's original population of some 350,000 had totally disappeared, the last few survivors dying as refugees in Cuba.<br />  On a subsequent visit to Gainesville, a couple years ago, I bought Jerald Milanich's book, planning to get a more complete picture.  I am very glad I did.  This is a most excellent book, written for people who may not have professional backgrounds in archaeology, anthropology or history.  The author hits just the right note.  Everything is explained most clearly and readably.  The twelve thousand year history that came to an end in the 18th century is traced through archeological discoveries.  The great number of maps is a delight, while he includes some interesting photographs too.  Milanich describes Florida as it must have been when the Spaniards arrived in the early 1500s.  He tells of their efforts at exploration, colonization, at conversion, and their brutal repression of resistance, which coupled with wave upon wave of new diseases, almost completely wiped out Florida's native population.  The French attempted briefly to colonize the area too.  You will learn that \\"Florida\\" once extended up the Georgia coast into South Carolina.  This area was known as Guale.  For those of us reared on Anglo-centric American history, Milanich's book is an eyeopener.  The life around the Spanish missions is depicted, the life that was destroyed finally by raids from the north by Carolina colonists, English forces, and allied Indians.  These violent incursions, which brought thousands of Indian slaves to the Carolinas or sent them to be sold in the West Indies, finished the awful job of genocide.  Florida is a land of ghosts.  Today, amidst the urban sprawl and commercial mess of much of that state, nobody gives a thought to the Calusa, the Apalachee, the Timucua, the Jororo, the Tocobaga, the Mayaca, the Tequesta, and so many others, some whose very names may not survive.  But when you paddle down one of those palmetto-lined rivers, past turtles and alligators, thrilled to see deer or otter, herons and ducks, or when you visit the former capital of Spanish Florida, St. Augustine, you might give a thought to the original Floridians.  Florida is still dotted with archaeological reminders of them.  Milanich has not neglected to tell us where.  I suspect this is THE book on Florida Indian history.ns, which brought thousands of Indian slaves to the Carolinas or sent them to be sold in the West Indies, finished the awful job of genocide.  Florida is a land of ghosts.  Today, amidst the urban sprawl and commercial mess of much of that state, nobody gives a thought to the Calusa, the Apalachee, the Timucua, the Jororo, the Tocobaga, the Mayaca, the Tequesta, and so many others, some whose very names may not survive.  But when you paddle down one of those palmetto-lined rivers, past turtles and alligators, thrilled to see deer or otter, herons and ducks, or when you visit the former capital of Spanish Florida, St. Augustine, you might give a thought to the original Floridians.  Florida is still dotted with archaeological reminders of them.  Milanich has not neglected to tell us where.  I suspect this is THE book on Florida Indian history.	2002-04-02
US	52761040	R36AGAVQ77Z4DN	0679724788	599048748	The Real Life of Alejandro Mayta	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Is truth garbage or is the garbage the truth ?	People always repeat the phrase, \\"don't judge a book by its cover\\", but the cover of my copy of THE REAL LIFE OF ALEJANDRO MAYTA expresses the content more appropriately than almost any other cover I can remember in that it points directly to Peru and the central problem of literature.  A mass of Peruvian-style figures stand in darkness, almost obscured.  You have to look carefully to see them at all.  A single chink in the cell door, a single beam of light in a dark place---all that is revealed in color are the eyes and brow of a solitary man.  Do we know what is happening in Peru---exploited, misgoverned, racked by revolution and poverty ?  Can we know what really happens in life ?  Can we understand the motivations and deepest emotions of other human beings ?  Can literature actually create or, at least, reproduce these ?<br />  Vargas Llosa creates a gripping novel out of unlikely pieces.  An obscure Trotskyite revolutionary, a member of a party whose membership stands at seven, gets involved in an uprising in an Andean town in 1958.  The author-as-narrator is in Paris at the time.  He returns to Peru later and in 1983, spends a year trying to track down the people involved (family, colleagues, co-conspirators), to learn what motivated this event and its central character, Alejandro Mayta.  He interviews everyone he can find.  We jump between these interviews and the re-creation (or is it the actual truth ?) of what happened twenty-five years before.  The time line is obscured.  We shift constantly between two or more times on every other page, sometimes even on one page.  This is a literary trick which some people may find annoying or disconcerting, yet I urge you to stay with the novel.  Slowly, the author puts together a picture of an idealistic revolutionary who dissented from nearly everything.  The sources tell him of a homosexual dreamer who lived a secretive life in every respect, who had no money, and who was (or wasn't) the inspiration behind the Andean mini-revolt of 1958.  \\"If he had been able to control his sentiments and instincts, he wouldn't have led the double life he led, he wouldn't have had to deal with the intrinsic split between being, by day, a clandestine militant totally given over to the task of changing the world, and, by night, a pervert on the prowl...\\"  We begin to understand Mayta, though some of the interviewees are obviously lying.  But Vargas Llosa creates a present (1983) in which Peru is overwhelmed by a Vietnam-like war---invaded by leftwing Cuban and Bolivian forces with Soviet help, who are counterattacked by American marines and airforce.  Cuzco is destroyed, the country is collapsing.  Though Sendero Luminoso did bring Peru almost to its knees, none of this happened.  So can we believe the stories told by everyone about Alejandro Mayta ?  Is the story about Mayta years ago true as written by our narrator ?  I mean, he's obviously exaggerating even about the present.  Suddenly, after a vivid description of the uprising, the narrative ends.  The Rashomon-like last 34 pages reveal everything or nothing.  We are left with questions, but no answers.  Vargas Llosa writes, \\"Since it is impossible to know what's really happening, we Peruvians lie, invent, dream, and take refuge in illusion.  Because of these strange circumstances, Peruvian life, a life in which so few actually do read, has become literary.\\"  No matter what you decide, if you live in Peru, you'll have to face the garbage in the streets.  In America, it's on TV.  There's a lot of garbage around us.  Is it in people's minds as well ?  Can there be truth ?  This is the question this powerful, disturbing book leaves with you.  A tour de force.ndean mini-revolt of 1958.  \\"If he had been able to control his sentiments and instincts, he wouldn't have led the double life he led, he wouldn't have had to deal with the intrinsic split between being, by day, a clandestine militant totally given over to the task of changing the world, and, by night, a pervert on the prowl...\\"  We begin to understand Mayta, though some of the interviewees are obviously lying.  But Vargas Llosa creates a present (1983) in which Peru is overwhelmed by a Vietnam-like war---invaded by leftwing Cuban and Bolivian forces with Soviet help, who are counterattacked by American marines and airforce.  Cuzco is destroyed, the country is collapsing.  Though Sendero Luminoso did bring Peru almost to its knees, none of this happened.  So can we believe the stories told by everyone about Alejandro Mayta ?  Is the story about Mayta years ago true as written by our narrator ?  I mean, he's obviously exaggerating even about the present.  Suddenly, after a vivid description of the uprising, the narrative ends.  The Rashomon-like last 34 pages reveal everything or nothing.  We are left with questions, but no answers.  Vargas Llosa writes, \\"Since it is impossible to know what's really happening, we Peruvians lie, invent, dream, and take refuge in illusion.  Because of these strange circumstances, Peruvian life, a life in which so few actually do read, has become literary.\\"  No matter what you decide, if you live in Peru, you'll have to face the garbage in the streets.  In America, it's on TV.  There's a lot of garbage around us.  Is it in people's minds as well ?  Can there be truth ?  This is the question this powerful, disturbing book leaves with you.   A tour de force.	2002-03-24
US	52761040	R27H3D84AZXS7V	0874172241	518769050	The Circle Of Mountains: A Basque Shepherding Community (The Basque Series)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	"What a faith they had in cheeses !"	When I was a graduate student in anthropology several decades ago, Levi-Strauss was close to God and structuralism was the most modern method yet created to perceive other societies.  My fellow students and I dreamed of being able to apply structuralist principles to the societies we would research.  Some of us did, others did not.  Yet the fascination with discovering underlying organizational principles in any society still tickles all these years later.  The anthropological world in general has moved on.  I still have a sneaking admiration for somebody, like Sandra Ott, who could, in a relatively brief period of field work, uncover and document structural patterns in a society and language far from her own.  One question, I believe, that young anthropologists of today might pose is, having discovered those principles, what do you do with them ? Culture, or just human life, is so complex, so diverse.  Motivations are so multilayered.  Is this the best method of description possible ?  Especially since the society in question, one of the most isolated of French Basque villages in Soule departement along the Spanish border, has no doubt changed greatly in the 23 years between her research and when I read the book.  Are those principles still operational ?<br />THE CIRCLE OF MOUNTAINS is a carefully-written, no, painstakingly-written volume which reveals an ethnographer of great skill.  Although I would by no means recommend it to a casual reader, it is good anthropology.  Like many lesser books of its type, it is full of incredible ethnographic detail, thickly studded with Basque terms and phrases, which will be useful only to Basques or to people who study them professionally.  These terms also persuade readers that Ott knew her stuff, a definite plus for her academic supervisors, not so pleasant for others.  Teachers of anthropology, if they are looking for a structuralist work, may find THE CIRCLE OF MOUNTAINS just the thing.  If anthropology, structural or not, is the art of description and if capturing descriptions of disappearing worlds is important, then Otts book is praiseworthy.  Aldikatzia and &uuml;ng&uuml;r&uuml;, two Basque principles of social organization, found in many different contexts in the village society, are neatly defined and described. Aldikatzia or serial replacement orders relationships and roles within systems while &uuml;ng&uuml;r&uuml; or rotation is a principle by means of which systems are ordered.  The former is visible to all, the latter is more abstract.  The village itself is seen as a circle, neighborly relations similary circular.  In addition, there is a marvelous parallel drawn between conception and birth of children and the making of cheese.  The Basques saw their special cheeses, made in the mountain huts by male shepherds while they cared for their flocks in the high pastures in summer, as similar in a wide variety of ways to the babies produced by women in the village below.  The shepherds were inordinately proud of these mountain cheeses, which were strictly differentiated from cheeses made in the home proper.  Rennet curdled milk to form a cheese, they thought, just as human semen curdled red blood to form an infant.  The cheese maker up in the mountains was even called the housewife at the times when he made cheese.  The analogy is continued in far greater detail.  The men recreate the female reproductive role up in the shepherding huts, and re-enact the birth process by making cheeses.  It is a reversal of roles, not unknown in other parts of the world, though the cheese/baby analogy was a first for me.<br />  Douglass book on Basques, Death in Murelaga will not satisfy many readers, even dedicated anthropologists.  Kurlanskys A Basque History of the World is readable, but lightweight and diffuse.  Perhaps for those seeking knowlege about the Basques, Otts book, in the tradition of Goldilocks, is just right, though it may prove too detailed and narrowly-focussed for general readers.  4 stars for anthropology, 3 stars for readability.ed and narrowly-focussed for general readers.  4 stars for anthropology, 3 stars for readability.	2002-03-10
US	52761040	R37RS202DRQKWS	0872862151	366224244	Feather Woman of the Jungle	Books	5	10	13	N	N	A fascinating collage of myth and tall tales	Every now and then the world's attention is drawn to a strange figure in the world of arts, a figure who \\"doesn't belong\\", who has not paid the proper dues and hasn't struggled up through the usual channels.  No, that person suddenly rockets into the artistic firmament, does things in a totally unconventional way, and is immediately pounced upon and torn apart by those who have studied, worked, and sweated, dreaming of brilliant success.  I think of somebody like Grandma Moses, who didn't start to paint until she was 78 and never attended a single art class, didn't know about a single \\"artistic convention\\", yet became one of the most popular American artists ever.  The critics rewarded her by calling her \\"primitive\\".  Yeah, right.  Then, there was Niko Pirosmanishvili, a Georgian painter, who died in obscure poverty in 1918, having painted startlingly original images on any material he could get his hands on.  The title \\"primitive\\" was bestowed on him also.  Right here in my home town we had J.O.J. Frost, who painted scenes of the Marblehead he'd known as a child and events in the town's history.  He painted on odd boards and tried, unsuccessfully, to sell his works for a nickel or a dime.  After he died, he was recognized as a true artist and today his works are in New York and Washington.  You can't get hold of one for love or less than a huge amount of money.  A primitive.  Amos Tutuola is a member of this little band, an original, a genius, a man who had no training, but just wanted to tell a lot of stories.  If he'd written them in Yoruba, his mother tongue, we would never have heard his name.  He wrote them in English, an English suffused with the tones and twists of West Africa.  And guess what.  Some African critics even felt ashamed of Tutuola's work, as it was not modern or European enough for them.  Too primitive, right ?  That word again.  OK, for sure he doesn't write as smoothly as Hemingway or Turgenev; his grammar and spelling may leave something to be desired.  But for those people who have not read Tutuola---don't miss your chance.  If you love a story, if you love color and imagination, if you could like tales full of witches, magic, devils, and strange towns, if you are not totally wedded to the literary conventions set down by the critics, by the English departments of the world, then read Tutuola.  \\"The Palm Wine Drinkard\\", \\"My Life in the Bush of Ghosts\\", or FEATHER WOMAN OF THE JUNGLE---all are great.<br />Tutuola's stories certainly do have connections to local Nigerian myths, traditional stories told for centuries.  I will leave structural analysis to those so inclined.  Unless you are familiar with the myths, though, everything will seem new.  It seemed to me as I read through the account of six fabulous journeys that Tutuola's imagination had been fired by the cinema, both American and Indian.  When mixed with the Yoruba tales, you certainly do have a fantastic result.  If you are only interested in conventional novels, probably you'd better skip this book, but if you like Grandma Moses, if you like works by anyone who just fires away regardless of what critics say, then you're going to love FEATHER WOMAN OF THE JUNGLE.  Original.  Imaginative.  Outstanding.be desired.  But for those people who have not read Tutuola---don't miss your chance.  If you love a story, if you love color and imagination, if you could like tales full of witches, magic, devils, and strange towns, if you are not totally wedded to the literary conventions set down by the critics, by the English departments of the world, then read Tutuola.  \\"The Palm Wine Drinkard\\", \\"My Life in the Bush of Ghosts\\", or FEATHER WOMAN OF THE JUNGLE---all are great.<br />Tutuola's stories certainly do have connections to local Nigerian myths, traditional stories told for centuries.  I will leave structural analysis to those so inclined.  Unless you are familiar with the myths, though, everything will seem new.  It seemed to me as I read through the account of six fabulous journeys that Tutuola's imagination had been fired by the cinema, both American and Indian.  When mixed with the Yoruba tales, you certainly do have a fantastic result.  If you are only interested in conventional novels, probably you'd better skip this book, but if you like Grandma Moses, if you like works by anyone who just fires away regardless of what critics say, then you're going to love FEATHER WOMAN OF THE JUNGLE.  Original.  Imaginative.  Outstanding.	2002-03-01
US	52761040	R23XPLNSZ78HED	014006690X	822688378	The Women of Brewster Place (Penguin Contemporary American Fiction Series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	"R-E-S-P-E-C-T, oh my Lord, what it means to me"	Seven African-American women living in a small corner of an unnamed Northern city, in decrepit, badly heated buildings that have been abandoned by successive waves of workers and immigrants.  They have arrived there in different ways, their motives for settling there range from idealism through escape to inertia.  Some women have come up from the South to the \\"Promised Land\\" of the North, only to find disillusionment and loss.  Others have moved in from better parts of the city to escape prejudice against lesbians or in protest against the relentless onslaught of middle class values (oh, horror !) among the upwardly mobile black bourgeoisie.  Gloria Naylor tells each woman's story separately, but slowly links develop between and among the various characters.  In general, they are stories of the will to survive--- the overcoming, not so much of white prejudice, but of predatory or misanthropic behavior from their own relatives and neighbors.  Economic hardship traces its lines on the lives of the women as well.  Each one handles lack of money in a different way.  To paraphrase an old song, \\"disappointment was their closest friend\\".  Violence smoulders under the surface, appearing menacingly like shark's fins above the lagoon's surface, only to explode at the book's denouement at the same time that a coming-together occurs.  Hope and despair forever wrapped around each other.<br />Naylor's writing is a little patchy, sometimes dropping towards the banal, but occasionally rising to absolute brilliance.  The stories do not lag, lead you into the next one, and leave you wishing there were more.  The one surprising common thread is the utter hopelessness and inadequacy of all the men.  Perhaps this attitude springs from the author's personal experience, but it borders on stereotype.  While the female characters are varied, their motives complex, and the way they meet the challenges of life intriguing, the men (except for one despairing alcoholic) are presented as universally weak scoundrels and losers.  Since the book is about women, I read it without many misgivings, but it does leave you wondering.  THE WOMEN OF BREWSTER PLACE deserves a solid spot in the annals of American literature for its language and for its portrayal of African-American womens' lives for a worldwide audience.  Brewster Place is a metaphor for America, something like Bob Dylan's \\"Desolation Row\\".  Though things have changed, even so, too many daughters of Brewster Place still \\"wake up with their dreams misted on the edge of a yawn.\\"rsally weak scoundrels and losers.  Since the book is about women, I read it without many misgivings, but it does leave you wondering.   THE WOMEN OF BREWSTER PLACE deserves a solid spot in the annals of American literature for its language and for its portrayal of African-American womens' lives for a worldwide audience.  Brewster Place is a metaphor for America, something like Bob Dylan's \\"Desolation Row\\".  Though things have changed, even so, too many daughters of Brewster Place still \\"wake up with their dreams misted on the edge of a yawn.\\"	2002-02-28
US	52761040	RWFJOQ0WUVKBY	0871401517	518514629	Cane	Books	3	50	57	N	N	&quot;To catch thy plaintive soul, soon gone&quot;	Written back in 1923, CANE is one of the touchstones of African-American writing.  Jean Toomer, despite his rather uncertain relationship with the African side of his ancestry, must be recognized as a founder.  That said, this is a pale, difficult book, wandering sadly through the tempest-tossed fortunes of African-American life in the first decades of the 20th century.  CANE is not for the casual reader, nor for those who want to be fed meaning.  You must reflect, add to the text from your own knowledge and experience.  The characters appear in pale colors, dressed in weariness and often verging on madness.  Blue saxophone tones amidst the fogs of prejudice and blind hatred for all intelligent behavior by a despised minority.  What more could a gentle man, human and tender, make of such craziness ?  Poetry, broken images that pass slowly, pale by smoke, pale by moonlight, whisper of yellow globes, and decline of that distant hope that someday &quot;they&quot; would learn.  Part of this book is poetry, part is prose, and part a strange play about a man named Kabnis (\\"Sinbad ?) who seems an unlikely traveller on life's roads.  It is not a novel in any usual sense of the word, since it is made up of completely disparate parts with no connection other than that they describe the vicissitudes of African-American life in the South and in Washington DC.  Plot is absent, as is continuity.  This is a volume of ashen portraits, not much flattering.  This is a volume worth more for its history than for its literary merit, yet it will touch you if you let it.<br />Not yet published were the forthright descriptions and defiance of Wright, Ellison, Baldwin, and many others.  The bold fulminations of Malcolm, the brilliant oratory of King---not even dreamt of.  Toomer asks---but through a mist of poetic images, through the circuitous meanderings of the oppressed---what have we done to deserve this fate?  Who am I ?  No firebrand he.  \\"Wish that I might fly out past the moon/ And curl forever in some far-off farmyard flower.\\"  This is hardly rebellion.  But he wrote, he dared that.  From our so-privileged vantage point of eight decades into the future shall we challenge him, shall we scorn him ?  Let's praise him, for he began the trickle that turned into a mighty flood.curl forever in some far-off farmyard flower.\\"  This is hardly rebellion.  But he wrote, he dared that.  From our so-privileged vantage point of eight decades into the future shall we challenge him, shall we scorn him ?  Let's praise him, for he began the trickle that turned into a mighty flood.	2002-02-28
US	52761040	R3ALM3LY8JFM6N	0140298517	367419940	The Basque History of the World: The Story of a Nation	Books	4	5	5	N	N	&quot;Enjoyable Grab-bag of History, Recipes, and Trivia&quot;	In my search for a better understanding of the Basques, their place in European history and the reasons for the continuing conflict in their region today, I picked up Mark Kurlansky's book. THE BASQUE HISTORY OF THE WORLD is extremely well-written in modern journalistic style. That is, nothing is pursued to the bitter end, certainly, nor, sometimes, is it pursued to a logical conclusion. Subjects are touched upon, suddenly turned into something else, or dropped. Objectivity is not a high priority, but love of subject finds a secure place. These qualities may not be praiseworthy, academically, but do make for enjoyment. Any historical event can be the trigger for a recipe, an odd but pleasant characteristic of the book, which is thus full of interesting recipes, from `hare with walnut and chocolate', to `Salm&iacute; de paloma' (a pigeon dish), to `alubias de Tolosa' (beans). I found loads of fascinating interludes, for example, the description of Basque whaling and fishing expeditions and techniques; the discussion of the intellectual roots of Basque nationalism; how to make pelota balls; and the course of the Spanish Civil War in the Basque country. Kurlansky has the ability to discuss issues without getting bogged down. I have seldom met clearer (but perhaps they were incomplete) passages on the Carlist Wars that ravaged Spain for much of the 19th century. Rather than be an organized history in the usual sense, THE BASQUE HISTORY....... is a kind of \\"Whole Earth Catalogue\\" of Basqueness, of Euskal Herria. I liked it. It is not a work for serious scholars, but it certainly can be a jumping off place. It would be an overly serious person indeed who did not find Kurlansky's work charming. I can easily recommend this book to anyone who would like to read about a seldom-discussed people; a distinct European ethnic group with a unique language who have occupied the same lands for thousands of years.<br />Sometimes I felt that the author threw in \\"facts\\" without checking. For example, on page 138 he talks about the Basque word \\"jauntxo\\" and says it has come into English as \\"honcho\\". This word entered American English after WW II because it was the Japanese word for \\"superior officer\\" and was used to ask prisoners who commanded them. Similarly on page 293, Kurlansky claims that \\"cipayo\\", used as an epithet to describe local Basque police, was borrowed from a pejorative word used by Indian nationalists to describe Indian police who worked for the British. The word \\"sipahi\\" is certainly Hindi/Urdu, but it merely means `soldier' or `constable' and doesn't have any pejorative meaning.<br />A large section of the book discusses the Basques during Franco's long, oppressive regime, and during its aftermath with the entrance of Spain into Europe, and the rise of Basque terrorism in the struggle to maintain identity and/or become independent. While I found some of this rather diffuse, THE BASQUE HISTORY OF THE WORLD is the only book I know which can give the reader, unfamiliar with the events of 1970-2000, a background to the mayhem from a Basque (nationalist)point of view. For the most part, the author has done his homework, interviewed many interesting people, and compiled his information in a pleasing way.example, on page 138 he talks about the Basque word \\"jauntxo\\" and says it has come into English as \\"honcho\\". This word entered American English after WW II because it was the Japanese word for \\"superior officer\\" and was used to ask prisoners who commanded them. Similarly on page 293, Kurlansky claims that \\"cipayo\\", used as an epithet to describe local Basque police, was borrowed from a pejorative word used by Indian nationalists to describe Indian police who worked for the British. The word \\"sipahi\\" is certainly Hindi/Urdu, but it merely means `soldier' or `constable' and doesn't have any pejorative meaning. <br />A large section of the book discusses the Basques during Franco's long, oppressive regime, and during its aftermath with the entrance of Spain into Europe, and the rise of Basque terrorism in the struggle to maintain identity and/or become independent. While I found some of this rather diffuse, THE BASQUE HISTORY OF THE WORLD is the only book I know which can give the reader, unfamiliar with the events of 1970-2000, a background to the mayhem from a Basque (nationalist)point of view. For the most part, the author has done his homework, interviewed many interesting people, and compiled his information in a pleasing way.	2002-02-17
US	52761040	R2O0WCIXM8SUXH	0520218922	713626991	The Tourist	Books	5	44	44	N	N	"Travellers seek authentic Hungarian peasant's dinner"	All around the world, especially in those domains inhabited by readers of Lonely Planet publications, a fine (or sometimes not so fine) distinction is drawn between \\"tourists\\" and \\"travellers\\".  Almost always, \\"tourists\\" are \\"them\\", while \\"travellers\\" are \\"us\\".  Tourists are somebody you can look down on, from the height of your greater awareness, cultural sensitivity, or superior poverty.  In the old days, the term \\"pilgrim\\" described not only people who went to places like Mecca, Jerusalem or Rome, but also those on the \\"road of life\\".  It seems to me that all travellers are tourists and vice-versa. Anthropologists too are just tourists with a more professional attitude, intent on telling others what they have found in their in-depth investigations and placing it in an academic framework. If you want to get to the bottom of this whole topic---with all the various ramifications---then you must read MacCannell's book, an essay in the (OK, somewhat arcane) field of the Anthropology of Tourism.  It is not a bedtime reading book, but will stimulate plenty of thought.<br />  The author takes the tourist as a model of modern man.  He engages in a very effective piece of structural analysis; more effective in my opinion than any ever created by the Old Master, Claude Levi-Strauss.  A reader of THE TOURIST will come away having understood everything, not totally baffled by mountains of jargon.  The pre-modern world has not disappeared, it has been turned into zillions of tourist attractions.  We, the seekers, pilgrims, or, if you like, the tourists, try to get close to the roots of our civilization, to our own origins, by visiting and looking at packaged versions of the past.  Where pre-modern societies still exist to some extent, for example, among the hill tribes of Thailand, tourists make great efforts to visit them and, significantly, try their utmost to ensure that their visits are not \\"packaged\\" but \\"real\\".  The tourist wants to penetrate and share the lives of \\"others\\", others who are so distinct from ourselves.  Tourist satisfaction may be directly correlated to how \\"authentic\\" the experience seems to the visitors.  That's why having the authentic Hungarian peasant's dinner is important.  Unfortunately, you can't really share that dinner if you are travelling with forty other pilgrims in search of authenticity on a large bus.  But advertising, as always, can work wonders!  Fake authenticity has become the norm.<br />MacCannell discusses such serious topics as \\"commodity and symbol\\", \\"cultural productions and work groups\\" and how these relate to work.  In subsequent chapters, entitled \\"Sightseeing and Social Structure\\", \\"The Paris Case: Origins of Alienated Leisure\\", \\"Staged Authenticity\\", \\"A Semiotic of Attraction\\", \\"The Ethnomethodology of Sightseers\\", and \\"Structure, Genuine and Spurious\\", the author covers a wide variety of fascinating subjects in a brilliant book which will definitely succeed in making you view tourism in a different way forever afterwards. The pages are crammed with insights, analysis, good examples and interesting observations.  This book is the classic work of the Anthropology of Tourism.  If you are starting out in the field or are just interested in thinking about tourism in modern life, this is your book.  If you are a tourist along the byways of Amazon.com, you might consider making a stop here.  You will not find less than an authentic gem.ers\\", others who are so distinct from ourselves.  Tourist satisfaction may be directly correlated to how \\"authentic\\" the experience seems to the visitors.  That's why having the authentic Hungarian peasant's dinner is important.  Unfortunately, you can't really share that dinner if you are travelling with forty other pilgrims in search of authenticity on a large bus.  But advertising, as always, can work wonders!  Fake authenticity has become the norm.  <br />MacCannell discusses such serious topics as \\"commodity and symbol\\", \\"cultural productions and work groups\\" and how these relate to work.  In subsequent chapters, entitled \\"Sightseeing and Social Structure\\", \\"The Paris Case: Origins of Alienated Leisure\\", \\"Staged Authenticity\\", \\"A Semiotic of Attraction\\", \\"The Ethnomethodology of Sightseers\\", and \\"Structure, Genuine and Spurious\\", the author covers a wide variety of fascinating subjects in a brilliant book which will definitely succeed in making you view tourism in a different way forever afterwards. The pages are crammed with insights, analysis, good examples and interesting observations.  This book is the classic work of the Anthropology of Tourism.  If you are starting out in the field or are just interested in thinking about tourism in modern life, this is your book.  If you are a tourist along the byways of Amazon.com, you might consider making a stop here.  You will not find less than an authentic gem.	2002-02-12
US	52761040	R2NZ6ZTLLHANSZ	1585790095	923708106	Akenfield: Portrait of an English Village	Books	5	36	36	N	N	Their voices jump from the past into the present	Anthropology grabbed me early and it has never let go.  Why do people behave so differently from one another ?  Why are they so similar too ?  What would I have been if I had been born in Afghanistan instead of in Boston ?  What would my life have looked like if I were an Australian Aborigine ?  Why would I think what I think ?  These and a myriad other questions intrigue me like no others.  Orhan Pamuk, the Turkish novelist, often strikes the theme of \\"I want to be somebody else, therefore I am.\\"  This resonates very well with me.  Finally, though, you can only be whatever you are.  Travelling, working abroad, making friends among different peoples---these help you answer some of those questions, but only in part.  Reading ethnographies, village studies, autobiographies, or novels can also provide some answers.  When such books are excellent, you plunge into somebody else's world and emerge changed---you have almost known what it is to be somebody else.  When those books are about lives that began many decades before yours, you open a corridor to the past, as well.<br />Ronald Blythe's AKENFIELD is one of the best ethnographies that I have ever read, and I have read a lot.  It certainly does not fit the academic mold and perhaps never figured in many anthropology course reading lists.  More's the pity.  Blythe, from East Anglia in England, wrote this beautiful, penetrating study of an East Anglia village in the 1960s.  It is constructed almost entirely as narratives by the inhabitants, ranging from WW I veterans to housewives, young farm laborers to  schoolteachers.  Bellringers, blacksmiths, and the vet--the list of characters is comprehensive.  Blythe gives description when needed and added a short, almost lyrical introduction, but has worked the interviews into a seamless whole. Arguments could be made that AKENFIELD is more social history than anthropology, but this is a barren field to sow. As the years go by, all anthropology turns into social history, as the world changes and leaves memories of what used to be.  I would say that this book is one of the handful that inspired me to write anthropology, that encouraged me to avoid the jargon-strewn wastelands of academic strivings.  I have never been able to reach the heights of AKENFIELD, but it has stayed with me for thirty years.  Who could give this book enough stars ?world changes and leaves memories of what used to be.  I would say that this book is one of the handful that inspired me to write anthropology, that encouraged me to avoid the jargon-strewn wastelands of academic strivings.  I have never been able to reach the heights of AKENFIELD, but it has stayed with me for thirty years.  Who could give this book enough stars ?	2002-01-24
US	52761040	R375PLS2VPKJJA	0807608130	946525143	Persian Painting: Five Royal Safavid Manuscripts of the Sixteenth Century	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Exquisite images from a civilization ignored by the West	Mention the words \\"Safavi\\" or \\"Safavid\\" to people in the West and you will most likely get a blank stare in return, but this Iranian dynasty presided over a great cultural flowering in literature and architecture as well as in art.  Stuart Cary Welch produced a beautiful introductory guide to some of the beauties of that era, taking illustrations from several famous books and collections of the 16th century height of Safavid glory.  While the political history of the time in Iran, Central Asia and Afghanistan (all parts of the Persian world in a cultural sense) was full of battles, massacres, sieges and sudden changes of rule-very much like Europe at the same time-the delicacy of Persian art knew no bounds.  Brilliant, jewel-like colors, striking designs, and bold displays of mythical heroes touched in gold and surrounded with the miniature figures of the Persian court world appear on the pages of this book that is guaranteed to satisfy. Chinese-style rocks and trees mingle with Islamic calligraphy and Persian legends. While this book reproduces the illustrations both in full and in detail, the text is only the slightest of introductions to what can be a consuming study for any lover of art at its greatest.  Buyers of this book will want to look further.  May I suggest Anthony Welch's two books \\"Artists for the Shah\\" and \\"Shah `Abbas and the Arts of Isfahan\\", \\"Persian Drawings\\" by B. W. Robinson, and \\"Persian Painting\\" by Basil Gray.  Another related volume, a treat for anyone interested in Persian art, would be \\"Isfahan: Pearl of Persia\\" by Wilfred Blunt and W. Swan.	2002-01-24
US	52761040	R2G82RABA8IPDO	0671605925	45571506	The Old Man	Books	3	1	4	N	N	"Aging revolutionary queries former gung-ho actions"	Though book blurb descriptions often exaggerate, the person who linked Tolstoy and Turgenev to Yuri Trifonov on the cover of my edition of THE OLD MAN was a true master of hyperbole...This lightweight tale of an old civil war veteran who survived purges, battles, disease, starvation, and exile to grow old by the 1970s may evoke sympathy on human grounds, it may arouse awareness of what the generation of 1917 in Russia went through, and it may bring to mind the paltry reward such suffering brought...I cannot say that this book will fascinate many readers in the world today, but that is not to say that it has (or rather HAD), no merit.<br />THE OLD MAN is above all a book that has not weathered time very well.  It belongs to the Brezhnev era of the now-extinct Soviet Union, a time when speaking the truth was a risky act, if not as life-endangering as it had been under Stalin.  Most authors preferred to play it safe and write works that did not challenge the official version of history or contemporary life.  Trifonov deserves all credit for bringing a breath of fresh air into the stifled literary climate of those days.  But if telling the truth about Party and individual behavior during the Civil War of 1918-1921 and showing the corruption and cynicism of later generations was attractive and courageous in 1980, it is not extremely startling today.  No one now, in Russia or in the West, need remain in doubt about historical events or...mistakes (not to mention crimes) committed in the name of the Revolution.  The old man himself was part of those crimes, committed perhaps in the fervent ardor of the desire for change, even forgotten by perpetrators, but crimes nevertheless.  People lost all individual merit and were lumped into classes, pro or con.  The Soviet Union was built on rigid class definitions, but by the 1970s, new classes had sprung up, the old did not matter.  Trifonov notes (p.189) \\"The pharmacist's approach to humanity---or, more exactly, to individuals---survived for decades, for there is nothing more convenient than cut-and-dried formulas, but now everything has grown turbid.  The vials have been broken and all the solutions and acids have run into one pool.\\"  To utter such sentiments, the author took considerable personal risk, but the book remains a relic of Brezhnev's times, right down to the inability of the author to use the word \\"Jew\\" in any shape or form, equivalent of Faulkner or Warren writing a novel without mentioning the words \\"black\\", \\"Negro\\" or \\"African\\".  I sympathize with, maybe even admire Trifonov, but I can give his novel only three stars.-survived for decades, for there is nothing more convenient than cut-and-dried formulas, but now everything has grown turbid.  The vials have been broken and all the solutions and acids have run into one pool.\\"  To utter such sentiments, the author took considerable personal risk, but the book remains a relic of Brezhnev's times, right down to the inability of the author to use the word \\"Jew\\" in any shape or form, equivalent of Faulkner or Warren writing a novel without mentioning the words \\"black\\", \\"Negro\\" or \\"African\\".   I sympathize with, maybe even admire Trifonov, but I can give his novel only three stars.	2002-01-23
US	52761040	R3814EDL4S6OM6	0887383750	520696631	Celebrations: The Cult of Anniversaries in Europe and the United States Today	Books	4	2	2	N	N	500 candles make a lovely light......	A study of the theory and practice of anniversary celebrations of famous people or events in Europe and America could be a very interesting subject if it is written well. I thought it would be one of those anthropological works which illuminates previously dark corners, places in the vast Tent of Life that nobody really takes notice of.  I was not mistaken.  For 125 pages, Johnston weaves a fascinating argument, eminently readable, as to how a rising proliferation of cultural/historical anniversaries reinforces the concerns of postmodernism.  We commemorate, he says, what we no longer wish to emulate.  Leaving aside the author's rather weak definitions and treatment of \\"postmodernism\\" as a concept, the book more exactly treats the different ways in which cultural anniversaries are celebrated in the USA and various European countries and why.  His discussion of such topics as the historical foundations of anniversary celebrations, the rise of state-supported cultural managers in Europe vis-a-vis local, academic sponsors of such celebrations in America, the role of individual intellectual giants in each culture, and the role of commercial interests and the media in celebrations is excellent.  There is such potential depth here that nobody could present the FULL explanation.  I particularly found his explanation of cultural differences in Europe and America throught the lens of anniversary celebrations useful.  An anthropology student looking for an interesting paper topic could find many stimuli here.  Similarly, an anthropology teacher could find material for several lectures within these pages, so many ideas do they bring up.  For example, Johnston claims that anniversary celebrations are more important when one class has overthrown another, as happened in Europe in the period 1789-1900.  In the UK, the change was gradual, and thus, the anniversary celebrations are muted.  \\"Anniveraries appeal to new owners, not ancestral ones.\\" (p.81)  In America, the same institutions we had in 1787 are still in place.  The country, except for parts of the South, was founded by the middle class.  Celebrating anniversaries of individuals to stress our national identity is unnecessary.  The courtly tradition too lies behind celebratory style in Europe, not in the USA. The author talks about \\"cultural religion\\" in Europe as opposed to the \\"civil religion\\" of the USA.  All these comparisons I found very thought provoking.<br />But what happened to this book ?  If a few rather grandiose statements are thrown out in the first part, the arguments are useful, and certainly make sense.  The second part of the book, the last 50 pages, is irrelevant to everyone now, in 2002, because it makes a confused series of predictions and recommendations about the bimillennium celebrations that now, in retrospect, are particularly bizarre.  Johnston expresses his concern about the `emotional upset' of the bimillennium to come.  He links Rome, Greece, and Christianity to a kind of strange, proposed runup to the years 2000 and 2001.  Off the wall suggestions come flying across the pages, perhaps tongue in cheek.  It is a very self-indulgent performance that an editor should not have allowed because it takes the shine off an otherwise useful book.ions we had in 1787 are still in place.  The country, except for parts of the South, was founded by the middle class.  Celebrating anniversaries of individuals to stress our national identity is unnecessary.  The courtly tradition too lies behind celebratory style in Europe, not in the USA. The author talks about \\"cultural religion\\" in Europe as opposed to the \\"civil religion\\" of the USA.  All these comparisons I found very thought provoking.<br />But what happened to this book ?  If a few rather grandiose statements are thrown out in the first part, the arguments are useful, and certainly make sense.  The second part of the book, the last 50 pages, is irrelevant to everyone now, in 2002, because it makes a confused series of predictions and recommendations about the bimillennium celebrations that now, in retrospect, are particularly bizarre.  Johnston expresses his concern about the `emotional upset' of the bimillennium to come.  He links Rome, Greece, and Christianity to a kind of strange, proposed runup to the years 2000 and 2001.  Off the wall suggestions come flying across the pages, perhaps tongue in cheek.  It is a very self-indulgent performance that an editor should not have allowed because it takes the shine off an otherwise useful book.	2002-01-02
US	52761040	R1EVE6WWBJ32U7	0679732187	864447420	Absalom, Absalom! The Corrected Text	Books	5	8	11	N	N	&quot;Some desolation more profound than ruin&quot;	He came from the far mountains of Appalachia, trudging down range after range till he reached the rich, fertile lands of coastal Virginia to grow up poor, in a shack, with less dignity than even a house slave of that distant, fecund time when imagination ruled more than facts, when he (a boy) could dream of fame and fortune in the legendary West Indies and, daring, hoping, actually set sail for such fabled isles to wrest, by courage and by native cleverness, the position he saw before him, dancing unreachable before his potent desire that later, in Mississippi, on a hundred square miles of swamp with only his own brute strength and a band of rough slaves, would carve out a plantation in the old, genteel Southern style, a style that he embraced as an outsider, who was never accepted, never allowed in to the circle of locals-even pelted with vegetables and threatened with arrest when he dared to marry a local girl-because he had formerly trudged down those far blue mountains, bore some resemblance to white trash, but worst of all had not been born among them (the folk of Yoknapatawpha County, renowned in American literature these many decades) and so having dared, having fought over the years to ensure his progeny a place at the top, was brought down, utterly destroyed, by early deeds, and by racial separatism, which in that faroff day, was considered more important than incest.<br />Well, folks, if you can stand many more sentences more daunting than my above miserable effort, if you like Jackson Pollock in art, you will love ABSALOM, ABSALOM !, one of the great novels of American literature.  It is a thick dreaming; figures looming up through the dark, redolant masses of verbiage, marked, even scarred by inevitability, but veiled in mystery, awful conclusions to be revealed just around the corner---on the next page perhaps.  Jackson Pollock's best paintings pull the viewer in, the depth is astounding, the effect stunning.  Faulkner's novels, at their best, are the same.  That intense, magic splatter of words turning into a flood.  The tales of doomed aspirations, \\"currents of retribution and fatality\\", the corruption, violence, and murky destiny of crocodilian proportions lying in wait for the craftiest, most potent striver.  Faulkner's plots seem to be predictable-and they are in terms of unhappy endings-but the twists remain fascinating, the ways in which you learn them, always impressive.  There is nobody like Faulkner, who can weave tales of family disasters, hubris, incest, and racism that appall and amaze at the same time.  He is truly one of the great novelists of world literature and in my humble opinion, the best ever produced by the USA.<br />P.S. The racial images and language of this novel are unpleasant.  Faulkner wrote before the days of political correctness and his words can be ugly.  I took this in the same vein as \\"Merchant of Venice\\" or other historic literature that uses stereotypical images.  Faulkner knew that racism was the curse of the South, and perhaps he extended it to the whole country, but he portrayed the South as it was, not as we would like it to have been.same.  That intense, magic splatter of words turning into a flood.  The tales of doomed aspirations, \\"currents of retribution and fatality\\", the corruption, violence, and murky destiny of crocodilian proportions lying in wait for the craftiest, most potent striver.  Faulkner's plots seem to be predictable-and they are in terms of unhappy endings-but the twists remain fascinating, the ways in which you learn them, always impressive.  There is nobody like Faulkner, who can weave tales of family disasters, hubris, incest, and racism that appall and amaze at the same time.  He is truly one of the great novelists of world literature and in my humble opinion, the best ever produced by the USA.  <br />P.S. The racial images and language of this novel are unpleasant.  Faulkner wrote before the days of political correctness and his words can be ugly.  I took this in the same vein as \\"Merchant of Venice\\" or other historic literature that uses stereotypical images.  Faulkner knew that racism was the curse of the South, and perhaps he extended it to the whole country, but he portrayed the South as it was, not as we would like it to have been.	2001-12-21
US	52761040	R3VR1Y1OINWN2B	0404629474	493616676	Death in Murelaga (American Ethnological Monographs ; No 49)	Books	2	1	1	N	N	&quot;Putting Basques in the Exit&quot;----a dull ethnography	Some ethnographies can inspire you to read more about a particular society.  Others can make you want to emulate the authors and try to write a similarly empathetic work on a certain culture.  I'm always looking for ethnographies that will inspire students to get interested in anthropology or some relatively-unknown part of the world.  There are also ethnographies that, while painstakingly researched and written, prove to be so incredibly dull that you only ache to reach the end.  I'm afraid that this volume is one of the latter.<br />DEATH IN MURELAGA is a study of social relationships in Spanish Basque society in the 1960s.  Chapter One sets the background and Chapter Two gives a description of behavior and ritual surrounding death.  As do many other authors, Douglass uses a large number of terms from the people studied.  In terms of ethnographic accuracy, this is no doubt a good idea, but for those of us who are not now specialists and have no plans to be, his widespread use of Basque words is excessive.  One might forgive the author if the book were more interestingly written.  Alas.  Chapters Three through Six examine the various levels of social organization in the village and try to show the significance of death as a defining and activating agent for the social units.  The continuity of a house or household on a specific piece of property is paramount.  Thus, as death is a major threat to that continuity, the rituals which \\"paper over\\" the torn society and ensure that things go on are very important.  DEATH IN MURELAGA has an unfortunate tendency towards incredible detail.  Specialists on Basque society will find this book a must for understanding their focus 40 years ago (and I assume will give it five stars for utility), and scholars of funerary ritual around the world may find this dull but useful.  Nobody else could possibly absorb the information presented here.  There is no personal experience or description.  Almost no Basque voice breaks the sound of the author's monotone.  If the book were theoretically strong, such faults could be overlooked easily, but endless categorizing and bare description (in the present tense) of \\"typical\\" behavior dominate all.  The author also has an unfortunate tendency to say what Basques do NOT do, implying the existence of some Super List of funerary customs.<br />I found DEATH IN MURELAGA somewhat contrived.  The author described social relationships, then showed how they were reflected in rituals related to death.  He then claims to have written a study of social relationships \\"seen through funerary ritual\\".  In my opinion the two things were discussed separately, only tied together loosely.  The rituals did not explain the social relationships.  This method of examining ritual has long been outmoded.  Douglass explained social relationships himself, pictured the rituals himself.  What did they all mean to the Basques ?  Not included.  The benefit of this method of organizing a book seems very small.  A few other anthropologists' work is cited in the last ten pages and Douglass asks why death and death-related activities occupy such a prominent place in the Basque world view.  His answer is short, but by that point, all but the most determined reader have ceased to care.  DEATH IN MURELAGA is an ethnography which has not stood the test of time.the author's monotone.  If the book were theoretically strong, such faults could be overlooked easily, but endless categorizing and bare description (in the present tense) of \\"typical\\" behavior dominate all.  The author also has an unfortunate tendency to say what Basques do NOT do, implying the existence of some Super List of funerary customs.  <br />I found DEATH IN MURELAGA somewhat contrived.  The author described social relationships, then showed how they were reflected in rituals related to death.  He then claims to have written a study of social relationships \\"seen through funerary ritual\\".  In my opinion the two things were discussed separately, only tied together loosely.  The rituals did not explain the social relationships.  This method of examining ritual has long been outmoded.  Douglass explained social relationships himself, pictured the rituals himself.  What did they all mean to the Basques ?  Not included.  The benefit of this method of organizing a book seems very small.  A few other anthropologists' work is cited in the last ten pages and Douglass asks why death and death-related activities occupy such a prominent place in the Basque world view.  His answer is short, but by that point, all but the most determined reader have ceased to care.  DEATH IN MURELAGA is an ethnography which has not stood the test of time.	2001-12-06
US	52761040	R1QLF03AM5L9OG	5050000068	251000602	Data Tutashkhia (2 Volumes)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	&quot;For a Fistful of Philosophy&quot;---an Eastern Western	Buried in the USSR and in the Tsarist Empire before it, Georgia remained an unknown nation in the West for two centuries, emerging into the game of nations only in 1992.  Years ago I read the Georgian national epic, \\"Man in the Panther's Skin\\" by the 12th century poet Shota Rustaveli, a complex tale of love and adventure.  Georgian literature in English translation is hardly prevalent, so this novel was only the second work I'd ever run across.  It too is something of an epic.  DATA TUTASHKHIA, by a novelist about whom I know absolutely nothing---Chabua Amirejibi---is clever, well-written, and well-thought out, a novel that is not only highly popular in its native land, but also, as a TV series, popular in Russia.  I cannot read either the original Georgian or Russian.  The English version that I bought some years ago in a Soviet bookstore in Australia is one of the worst-translated books I have ever read.  Just appalling.  In spite of that, I can recommend this novel very highly.  The quality of the original shines through no matter what travesties were wrought by an incompetent translator.<br />Data Tutashkhia is an \\"abrag\\" or Robin Hood-like outlaw, hiding in the mountains of Georgia, occasionally wandering into Russia proper or Turkey.  People tell tales of his prowess, his honor, and his sense of justice, adding much more to the legend than exists in reality.  Not only is he a crack shot and good with his fists, but he has a keen grasp of human psychology.  He is also a most philosophical bandido.  His first cousin, together with the head of the Caucasian gendarmerie, try to catch the outlaw.  The book is a tale composed of many episodes, told from many points of view, stretching over almost 30 years.  For much of the book, Tutashkhia himself remains a distant figure, like an idol peering down from a mountain eyrie.  We only meet him towards the end.  Each episode has a clever, often humorous character---there are satires of Stalinesque totalitarianism, sharply drawn sketches of police methods then (and probably now too), interesting portraits of Georgian society in those long gone days, lengthy toasts that discuss Georgia's historical fate, love, and wine, much philosophy that seems to stem from Eastern religious sources, perhaps Zoroastrianism, and some scenes that were certainly cribbed from Hollywood westerns, maybe Clint Eastwood.  It is a lively grab bag of a book, with scarcely a dull moment.  I even met my first raiser of cannibal rats---bought to get rid of other rats. Any parallels with human society are NOT accidental ! If all this intrigues you, try to get a copy of DATA TUTASHKHIA.  Hopefully you'll find a better translation than mine.ly drawn sketches of police methods then (and probably now too), interesting portraits of Georgian society in those long gone days, lengthy toasts that discuss Georgia's historical fate, love, and wine, much philosophy that seems to stem from Eastern religious sources, perhaps Zoroastrianism, and some scenes that were certainly cribbed from Hollywood westerns, maybe Clint Eastwood.  It is a lively grab bag of a book, with scarcely a dull moment.  I even met my first raiser of cannibal rats---bought to get rid of other rats. Any parallels with human society are NOT accidental ! If all this intrigues you, try to get a copy of DATA TUTASHKHIA.  Hopefully you'll find a better translation than mine.	2001-11-24
US	52761040	RPLE4X1YM9AUL	0292781121	500023859	Three Women of Herat	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Portrait of a world blown away	It's probably trite by now to say that \\"the past is a foreign country\\", but if it's true anywhere in the world today, it must be most of all in Afghanistan.  The Afghans managed to preserve their independence from colonial rule with only minimal interference from Great Britain (a country that lost two wars with Afghanistan).  We might conclude that such freedom was a blessing, but it meant that the country sailed well into the treacherous waters of the 20th century without much social or economic change, with only a small educated class of people that could navigate the perils of the wars and competitions raging all around.  By the 1970s, when most nations in the world had changed drastically from what they had been fifty years previously, Afghanistan still had not transformed itself.  It was in this last moment of the Afghan past that Veronica Doubleday accompanied her husband to Herat, a large city in the west of Afghanistan, a historical capital and cultural center.  While her husband studied traditional music, Doubleday studied first art, then women's lives, re-entering the musical world with a female music teacher.  THREE WOMEN OF HERAT is a well-written, colorful memoir of that time, a picture of an Afghan city and women's lives, a picture that is now a shard of the Herati and Afghan past, covered over with the debris of 23 years of utter destruction and violence.<br />Though the author came from an educated English background, she chose three simple women for her portraits---a proper wife of a large musical family, a strict Muslim's suppressed wife who took refuge in faith healing and trances, and a female musician whose status in Herati society was dubious as she appeared in public.  Through the medium of describing her interactions with these three, Doubleday presents a picture of Afghan society in the mid-`70s, emphasizing womens' lives.  She covers the whole marriage process, childbirth and family relations, holidays, purdah, the music world, spirit possession, healing, and the evil eye.  Her relationship with the three women is always at the center.  There are a number of excellent color photographs and many drawings by the author as well.  A short epilogue underlines the disaster that befell the city and society she loved and we see the beginnings of fanaticism as a tool to fight foreign rule.  I think that for people interested in studying women in the Islamic world, THREE WOMEN OF HERAT could be very useful.  Friedl's \\"Women of Deh Koh\\" (Iran) is anthropologically more sophisticated and gives the women their own voice.  Fernea's \\"A Street in Marrakech\\" (Morocco) brings out the contrast between Western and Moroccan cultures better.  Perhaps the novels of Djebar and Fernissi are more of an inside view than can be offered by a European.  But Doubleday's book combines well with all these others.  It is a beautiful portrait of a lost world, all the more poignant for what has befallen the Afghan people most recently.session, healing, and the evil eye.  Her relationship with the three women is always at the center.  There are a number of excellent color photographs and many drawings by the author as well.  A short epilogue underlines the disaster that befell the city and society she loved and we see the beginnings of fanaticism as a tool to fight foreign rule.  I think that for people interested in studying women in the Islamic world, THREE WOMEN OF HERAT could be very useful.  Friedl's \\"Women of Deh Koh\\" (Iran) is anthropologically more sophisticated and gives the women their own voice.  Fernea's \\"A Street in Marrakech\\" (Morocco) brings out the contrast between Western and Moroccan cultures better.  Perhaps the novels of Djebar and Fernissi are more of an inside view than can be offered by a European.  But Doubleday's book combines well with all these others.  It is a beautiful portrait of a lost world, all the more poignant for what has befallen the Afghan people most recently.	2001-11-09
US	52761040	R1BU6LGFAIQESS	0140086838	559196313	Ceremony (Contemporary American Fiction Series)	Books	4	134	139	N	N	&quot;It's not easy to fix things up again.&quot;	I'd read some of Leslie Marmon Silko's short stories before starting on this novel.  They were like gems, polished, smooth, and echoing with a gentle quiet not commonly found in English literature.  CEREMONY is a far more ambitious undertaking; the building of a literary castle.  Set in New Mexico, in and around Laguna Pueblo, immediately after WW II, the plot concerns a young Indian war veteran who has been traumatized by his experiences as a prisoner of the Japanese.  When we meet him, he's barely conscious, being released from a mental hospital.  He lost his half-brother on the Bataan death march, his favorite uncle had died at home, a herd of special cattle---adapted to life in the desert---has disappeared, and his old friends are drinking themselves away in bars.  To top it all off, Tayo, the central character, is illegitimate and half-white, raised by relatives, not accepted fully by everyone in the family.  He seems destined for the asylum, jail, an early death from alcohol, or suicide; not exactly unknown fates for young Indians then or now.<br />Elders arrange a healing ceremony for him, but the healer is a maverick, not tied to traditional methods.  Tayo's whole life and consciousness merge into the healing process and that process begins to look like a prescription for the Indian peoples in North America to heal nearly-fatal wounds dealt their cultures over the last five centuries.  Silko sees the materialism and violence of Western civilization as a curse threatening the continued existence of everyone on the planet, a curse stemming from evil itself rather than from a particular group of people.  In tones that ring most uncannily today, she wrote in 1977 [p.191]  \\"If the white people never looked beyond the lie, to see that theirs was a nation built on stolen land, then they would never be able to understand how they had been used by the witchery; they would never know that they were still being manipulated by those who knew how to stir the ingredients together: white thievery and injustice boiling up the anger and hatred that would finally destroy the world: the starving against the fat, the colored against the white.\\"<br />The ceremony thus begins as a curative ritual for a single man, but expands beyond a simple hogaan to the whole world.  Dream figures come to life, life becomes a dream, life is healing and healing is life.  Silko attempted a very difficult task and I am not sure that it is entirely successful.  Sometimes, the pieces don't seem to match.  Her World War II sequences don't ring entirely true either.  Americans never evicted Japanese soldiers from caves before the Bataan death march; they were not executing prisoners then.  The shoe was on the other foot.  But these are quibbles.  CEREMONY's language, the poetry, the beauty of the land, the theme of healing--- all come through to make an unforgettable novel, an original voice that deserves an honored place in American literature.  If you have a special interest in Native American literature and have enjoyed N. Scott Momaday, Louise Erdrich, or Sherman Alexie, Silko's work will be a welcome addition.ts together: white thievery and injustice boiling up the anger and hatred that would finally destroy the world: the starving against the fat, the colored against the white.\\"<br />The ceremony thus begins as a curative ritual for a single man, but expands beyond a simple hogaan to the whole world.  Dream figures come to life, life becomes a dream, life is healing and healing is life.  Silko attempted a very difficult task and I am not sure that it is entirely successful.  Sometimes, the pieces don't seem to match.  Her World War II sequences don't ring entirely true either.  Americans never evicted Japanese soldiers from caves before the Bataan death march; they were not executing prisoners then.  The shoe was on the other foot.  But these are quibbles.  CEREMONY's language, the poetry, the beauty of the land, the theme of healing--- all come through to make an unforgettable novel, an original voice that deserves an honored place in American literature.  If you have a special interest in Native American literature and have enjoyed N. Scott Momaday, Louise Erdrich, or Sherman Alexie, Silko's work will be a welcome addition.	2001-10-23
US	52761040	R1X5OPV2S6ITKP	0375405100	351438665	Kafka's Curse: A Novel	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Abandon all hope, ye who enter here	Magical-realism is a very effective form of writing, but there is one caveat.  It still ought to be understandable, otherwise it becomes totally abstract.  I bought Achmat Dangor's novel in the UK a couple years ago with high hopes.  It looked interesting.  When I plunged into it recently, however, I found that I was going nowhere fast.  It is an involved family saga, it is perhaps an allegory about South Africa before and after apartheid, and it is full of weird, largely-sexual images.  In the USA, when segregation flourished, very light African-American descendants sometimes used to \\"pass\\", that is, claim to be white and live their lives by passing as white.  This practice was no doubt widespread in South Africa too.  In KAFKA'S CURSE, everything that is not black or white (an `absolute', that is) survives by passing.  A Muslim of Indian descent passes as a Jew, marries a white woman.  Crime passes as respectability.  Dictatorship passes as democracy.  Loneliness passes as marriage.  And so on.  Everyone is \\"ducking and diving\\", but what does it mean ?  &quot;Conventionally exotic&quot;, a phrase gleaned from the book, comes to my mind.  Exoticism is used to wrap a very average product.  I don't consider myself a literary idiot, but this one really had me puzzled.  Like the art of Jasper Johns or Barnett Newman, if such work grabs you, you may like this novel a lot.  If you remain sceptical,  you may feel that it is a case of the Emperor's having no clothes.  I suggest you try something else in that case and leave the muddled KAFKA'S CURSE for the aficionados of blank novels.	2001-10-10
US	52761040	R1KFLODSINE775	0395198453	571904076	Longtime Californ';: A documentary study of an American Chinatown,	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Sensitive Portrait of 1970s S.F. Chinatown	In these days of tragedy and uncertainty, it was a pleasure to seek escape in a beautiful presentation of the past.  The Nees' work gives a most complete and engrossing portrait of San Francisco's Chinatown in the early 1970s.  Through 400 intensive, but mostly informal, interviews, the authors developed a comprehensive picture of the crowded Chinese ghetto in the heart of the city, one of the oldest continuing ghettos in the USA.  While most Americans may have a rather tinsely picture of \\"Chinatown\\" as a place to eat great food or buy exotic merchandise, this book presents the more, down-home truths about the place.  Poverty and unemployment stalked the streets, low wage garment and restaurant industries allowed new immigrants little scope to learn English or skills usable outside Chinatown.  Decent housing was scarce, delinquency and gangs were on the rise. The tightly-packed area of a few city blocks had seen the transition from a bachelor society---created by bigoted immigration laws---to a family society when Chinese women were allowed to immigrate and then when general immigration began in 1965.  Chinatown politics revolved around the Six Companies' conservative role as bearers of the Kuomintang standard and upholders of the status quo versus factions of younger, Americanized Chinese who wanted to attract and control newly-available government money for minorities and the war on poverty.<br />Not long ago, I read another book on San Francisco's Chinatown, \\"The Hatchet Men\\" by R. Dillon.  Though they used some of the same historical documents, the Nees work is far superior in every way to Dillon's as a study of Chinatown because the latter contains no Chinese voice.  Listening to so many Chinese and Chinese-Americans from many walks of life, you get a real feel for what life was like at that time, in that place.  Dillon looked at Chinatown as an outsider studying a rather exotic place while LONGTIME CALIFORN' emphasizes the common human problems that crop up everywhere that immigrants are crammed into small areas with few resources.  The Nees interviewed garment workers, waiters, mothers, students, youth gang members, cooperative organizers, businessmen, old retired bachelors, Christians, housing project residents, and tong members.  They identify what made them unique as well as what they had in common with others.  Their voices, plus the history and local politics written up in readable style make this a gem of a book.<br />The \\"Pantheon Village Series\\", of which this is a part, was one of the great series in social anthropology of its time (1966-c.1981).  I have read a number of them and reviewed some for Amazon.com.  I strongly recommend LONGTIME CALIFORN' to anyone who is interested in Chinese society in America, in San Francisco and its social history, or to all those who would just like to read excellent community study.  `If you forget the past, you can separate yourself from it'---says one man at the end of the book.  In a world full of immigrants and refugees, it is indeed useful to remember that the history of most North American families begins with an immigrant or refugee.  This eloquent study of Chinatown can be a way to think about the past for anybody.everywhere that immigrants are crammed into small areas with few resources.  The Nees interviewed garment workers, waiters, mothers, students, youth gang members, cooperative organizers, businessmen, old retired bachelors, Christians, housing project residents, and tong members.  They identify what made them unique as well as what they had in common with others.  Their voices, plus the history and local politics written up in readable style make this a gem of a book.  <br />The \\"Pantheon Village Series\\", of which this is a part, was one of the great series in social anthropology of its time (1966-c.1981).  I have read a number of them and reviewed some for Amazon.com.  I strongly recommend LONGTIME CALIFORN' to anyone who is interested in Chinese society in America, in San Francisco and its social history, or to all those who would just like to read excellent community study.  `If you forget the past, you can separate yourself from it'---says one man at the end of the book.  In a world full of immigrants and refugees, it is indeed useful to remember that the history of most North American families begins with an immigrant or refugee.  This eloquent study of Chinatown can be a way to think about the past for anybody.	2001-10-01
US	52761040	R4ESGW8GFJCXH	0891740279	140557208	Hatchet Men	Books	3	7	7	N	N	19thC. crime and criminality in San Francisco's Chinatown	The Great Earthquake of 1906 that leveled and burned Chinatown along with much of San Francisco put an end to the opium dens, whorehouses, and gang meeting houses that had marked the Chinese quarter of the city since 1852. When Chinatown was rebuilt, it was by American-Chinese who played by new rules, had different interests and wanted the `good life' as available in California in those days. \\"Hatchet men\\", like dinosaurs, trudged off into history.<br />Richard Dillon compiled a long-winded saga of the intricate relationships between legitimate Chinese companies (or benevolent societies), the American police, and Chinese gangs. He did it mainly by delving into newspapers and government inquiries, reports, and court ordinances of the second half of the 19th century. Turning up a huge amount of information, he ran into trouble trying to digest it for readers. The text contains too many names, too many details of too many crimes for anyone not engaged in research to keep straight. The basic theme is very interesting however. He examines the rise of Chinese criminality from 1852, when first there was a substantial Chinese population in the city, to the end of the century. In the early days, Chinese remained law-abiding residents of the USA for the most part, though they had two weaknesses---opium and what Dillon calls \\"slave girls\\", i.e. women imported for the purpose of prostitution. Slowly however, the rise of clan and village organizations that fought each other for mastery of criminal activities in Chinatown signaled a breakdown in law and order. Chinese lived under a reign of terror during the 1880s and `90s. Hatchet-wielding killers silenced any opposition to their sway. The police had a very difficult time dealing with the problem especially since the gangs were not slow to bribe inquiring officers. These gangs are called \\"tongs\\" in the text: the details of their names, activities, leaders, and victims are extremely numerous. Eventually, tighter police control and the increasing readiness of more-Americanized Chinese to speak out against their oppressors put an end to the warfare. But the \\"hatchet men\\" or hired killers had their day. If you are interested to know what it was like, you can read this book, though it could have been better organized.<br />In America, we have had or still have gangsters of many national origins. They mirror our population. The Italian mafia is well-known thanks to Hollywood, then we can count the Jews, the Vietnamese, the Jamaicans, Puerto Ricans, Colombians, and the Russians. I am sure this is not an exhaustive list. Why the Chinese should be seen as exotic is part of a larger question. They were just gangs operating in their own cultural style. Dillon attempted to place his study in the framework of the progress of tolerance to Asian settlement in California, but I think this theme got overwhelmed in the details of cops and killers.nd the increasing readiness of more-Americanized Chinese to speak out against their oppressors put an end to the warfare. But the \\"hatchet men\\" or hired killers had their day. If you are interested to know what it was like, you can read this book, though it could have been better organized.<br />In America, we have had or still have gangsters of many national origins. They mirror our population. The Italian mafia is well-known thanks to Hollywood, then we can count the Jews, the Vietnamese, the Jamaicans, Puerto Ricans, Colombians, and the Russians. I am sure this is not an exhaustive list. Why the Chinese should be seen as exotic is part of a larger question. They were just gangs operating in their own cultural style. Dillon attempted to place his study in the framework of the progress of tolerance to Asian settlement in California, but I think this theme got overwhelmed in the details of cops and killers.	2001-09-08
US	52761040	R3TKKU7B7QZ65S	0848805658	820457278	Dodsworth	Books	5	37	37	N	N	&quot;Trophy Wife Dumps Hubby for Euro-Glitz&quot;	No doubt, this one is for your 'must read' list. When you put it down, you will feel you've lost contact with some great characters, that you've really got inside a marriage, that you've seen life the way it can be.<br />Samuel Dodsworth is an automobile magnate in the early years of the business. When his company is bought-out, he's left free at age 50, to do whatever he wants. But he has a slick, steel-willed, glamorous socialite for a wife and she has ambitions of climbing. He had always been &quot;too busy to be discontented, and he managed to believe that Fran loved him.&quot;&quot;(p.11) Sam gets roped into an extended European tour. Turns out, he's just an escort and backdrop for her movie. He experiences rising discomfort as she worms her way into European high society (or what she takes to be such). The trip gives both of them the first chance in decades to find out who they are---the common motif in literature and life of travelling to discover yourself---and they realize that they don't have much in common. Their European experiences transform them. On a visit back to the States, Dodsworth finds that he has changed; he can't regard his old friends, their old routines and concerns, and their ways with the same equanimity. They have become provincial and empty in his eyes, but what has he become ? He slowly comes to the conclusion that he's cut loose from all the went before, but has no direction for the future. He takes up several possibilities, but is caught among the rocks of loving the wayward Fran, wanting to do something useful in the world, and needing love himself. It's a long haul, but he makes it. Lewis skillfully keeps the psychological tension going to the very last page. Great stuff ! As for Fran, you'll have to read the book.<br />DODSWORTH is a psychological study of the first order, sincere, unpretentious and so well-written. It is not a satire on the lines of &quot;Main Street&quot;, &quot;Babbitt&quot; or &quot;Elmer Gantry&quot;, but a serious novel in the full sense of the word. Samuel Dodsworth comes across as a solid man of conservative nature who may have once been in a rut, but learns to think far more than people ever give him credit for, particularly his wife. He becomes flexible and learns to live, while Fran only continues to consume and demand. The plot plays itself out amidst a background of constant discussion as to what makes an American, what makes a European and what are the differences ? While this theme fascinated Henry James and numbers of other writers, it seems a bit pass&eacute; in this day of the Web, 7 hour flights across 'the pond', massive tourism, MBAs in Europe and great museums in America. Still, it's part of the ambiance of the 1920s when this novel was written. The slow dissolution of the marriage, the contradictions of personality, the existence of strengths and weaknesses, aggressive and passive roles in both husband and wife, the psychological disintegration and re-building of a man's self-image-these are the main themes of DODSWORTH. It's one of the great American novels.erious novel in the full sense of the word. Samuel Dodsworth comes across as a solid man of conservative nature who may have once been in a rut, but learns to think far more than people ever give him credit for, particularly his wife. He becomes flexible and learns to live, while Fran only continues to consume and demand. The plot plays itself out amidst a background of constant discussion as to what makes an American, what makes a European and what are the differences ? While this theme fascinated Henry James and numbers of other writers, it seems a bit pass in this day of the Web, 7 hour flights across 'the pond', massive tourism, MBAs in Europe and great museums in America. Still, it's part of the ambiance of the 1920s when this novel was written. The slow dissolution of the marriage, the contradictions of personality, the existence of strengths and weaknesses, aggressive and passive roles in both husband and wife, the psychological disintegration and re-building of a man's self-image-these are the main themes of DODSWORTH. It's one of the great American novels.	2001-08-29
US	52761040	RZ49072WZG2DZ	0195018761	17100854	Imperial Russia in Frontier America: The Changing Geography of Supply of Russian America, 1784-1867	Books	4	1	1	N	N	How the Russians did or didn't supply Alaska	Alaska has always been peripheral, both to America, and to Russia before that. The Tsar's men stripped it of furs as fast as they could for 124 years---the first settlements began in 1743 and the US government bought Alaska in 1867 for $7.2 million, despite much opposition to such a \\"waste of money\\". Nevertheless, every place has a fascinating story to tell. I hoped to find such fascination in Gibson's book, but was only partially successful. If you read IMPERIAL RUSSIA IN FRONTIER AMERICA, you will no doubt gain a lot of knowledge about a little known episode in history, but will have to endure much academic trivia. I was impressed by the way Gibson divided the Russian colonization into four periods. The first, from 1793 to 1799, was about exploitation of fur resources, using mainly Aleut skills. During the second period, from 1799 to 1819, the Russian-American Company (on the same idea as the Hudson Bay or East India Company) expanded southwards to California and even made an attempt to gain control over Hawaii. The Indians often attacked Sitka and Russian nautical knowhow was so poor that 16 out of their 28 ships were wrecked. The third phase went from 1819 to 1840 and was perhaps the best of times for Russian America with more inland settlement, less conflict with Alaskan aborigines, and some modus vivendi with foreign competitors. The final phase, to 1867, saw the colonial enterprise weaken. The California fort was sold off to Sutter (of gold mining fame) and Russia's national attention turned more to Asia. What I was fascinated to learn was that at its height, at the very peak of population, Russian America contained exactly 823 Russians ! Not exactly a very determined effort. Russia HAD to sell Alaska because it could no longer supply its settlements there; it held a losing hand of cards. The main focus of this volume is the problem of supply---it is not a general history. Thus, most chapters concern the details of how Russia could or could not manage to supply its faroff colony. This is an interesting problem, but one which I fear does not loom large in the concerns of even potential readers of Gibson's work. The Russians tried sending food and materials overland through Siberia and then by sea. They tried sending stuff by sea around Africa or South America from St. Petersburg. They tried to grow food in Alaska. They tried to set up an agricultural base in California and they tried to send supplies from Hawaii. Finally, they attempted to secure their needs through trade with Americans, British, or Spanish/Mexicans. All these attempted solutions had their own consequences. Nothing worked very well. That's why they had to sell out. The minutiae of all this are laid out very painstakingly. Gibson did a very thorough job of research, but I found it more than a little trying to peruse lists of supplies purchased or sent, numbers of otter caught or amounts of grain grown. His use of Russian misspellings for Hawaiian names (`Voaga' for Oahu and `Tomi-Omi' for Kamehameha for example) is a little bizarre. Overall, this book would be extremely useful for anyone studying the history of Russian colonization in the far northeast. That's why I have given it four stars. It could be read in conjunction with J.J Stephan's book on the Kuril Islands or with the book on Russia's Hawaiian adventure by Richard Pierce. The comparison which was uppermost in my mind while reading this book was with Geoffrey Blainey's \\"Tyranny of Distance\\", about Australia. The topic is exactly the same, but Gibson chose to approach the subject in a more circumscribed manner. Unlike Blainey's work, IMPERIAL RUSSIA IN FRONTIER AMERICA is for a few specialists, not for general readers, but there are many nuggets of fascinating information to be had.ly its faroff colony. This is an interesting problem, but one which I fear does not loom large in the concerns of even potential readers of Gibson's work. The Russians tried sending food and materials overland through Siberia and then by sea. They tried sending stuff by sea around Africa or South America from St. Petersburg. They tried to grow food in Alaska. They tried to set up an agricultural base in California and they tried to send supplies from Hawaii. Finally, they attempted to secure their needs through trade with Americans, British, or Spanish/Mexicans. All these attempted solutions had their own consequences. Nothing worked very well. That's why they had to sell out. The minutiae of all this are laid out very painstakingly. Gibson did a very thorough job of research, but I found it more than a little trying to peruse lists of supplies purchased or sent, numbers of otter caught or amounts of grain grown. His use of Russian misspellings for Hawaiian names (`Voaga' for Oahu and `Tomi-Omi' for Kamehameha for example) is a little bizarre. Overall, this book would be extremely useful for anyone studying the history of Russian colonization in the far northeast. That's why I have given it four stars. It could be read in conjunction with J.J Stephan's book on the Kuril Islands or with the book on Russia's Hawaiian adventure by Richard Pierce. The comparison which was uppermost in my mind while reading this book was with Geoffrey Blainey's \\"Tyranny of Distance\\", about Australia. The topic is exactly the same, but Gibson chose to approach the subject in a more circumscribed manner. Unlike Blainey's work, IMPERIAL RUSSIA IN FRONTIER AMERICA is for a few specialists, not for general readers, but there are many nuggets of fascinating information to be had.	2001-08-24
US	52761040	R1I1JU17L4LYUD	0451526910	900945877	Arrowsmith (Signet Classics)	Books	2	13	24	N	N	Lewis ditches satire, comes up with clunker	If an author wanted to portray the difficulties and conflicts of interest inherent in the medical profession to the world, a biography of some famous surgeon or medical researcher might be just the ticket.  If, on the other hand, an author wanted to write a lasting novel of top quality, I believe that there is no other way than to develop one or several characters in as much depth as possible, to plumb their very souls (as they say in the classics !)  Irving Stone-style fictionalized biographies are another way possible way to go-you can combine the two genres.  What Sinclair Lewis created in ARROWSMITH is a piece of socialist realism that drags dreadfully, a book in which no character is open to us, a psychological void. The novel is more a sociology of the American medical profession in the first decades of the 20th century, a kind of uninspired expos&eacute; of medical colleges, country doctors, pharmaceutical firms, big city surgeons, and top-level research institutions---a social catalogue peopled with insipid characters that lack all the zany but convincing frenzy of Lewis' other books.  We follow Martin Arrowsmith's career from small town to university to North Dakota hick town and on up.  It's not an easy climb; it's not a Hollywood story, I'll grant you that. There is an exotic interlude on a plague-stricken West Indian island to liven up the far reaches of the novel, but nothing can really stir you much if you've hung on till then.  The basic problem is, as I've already claimed, that the characters take second place to the process.  Who can forget Babbitt or Elmer Gantry ?  There are no such larger-than-life figures marching through ARROWSMITH.  The protagonist's first wife is so thinly-drawn as to be almost invisible, like some cardboard cutout instead of a flesh and blood woman.  She conveniently takes a back seat to her husband's career.  The characters tend towards stereotype.  A couple characters from other novels---George Babbitt and Chum Frick---have walk-on appearances, and there is a Prof. Schlemihl, (who, so satisfyingly, Lewis did not fail to mention, was quite a porker) but none of the main actors in ARROWSMITH will stick in your mind.  Romantic interests are added from time to time, like salt to soup.  I felt, as I read, that Lewis' real talent lay in caricature.  When he wrote, tongue-in-cheek, about the \\"small town glories\\" of 1920s and `30s America, and he let his imagination soar, he was unbeatable.  When he reined himself in, trying to be `serious' and `natural', he lost touch with that special genius.  Written in between four of his greatest novels---\\"Main Street\\" and \\"Babbitt\\" came before and \\"Elmer Gantry\\" and \\"Dodsworth\\" came after, I can only think that Lewis' imagination faltered when he wrote ARROWSMITH.  It comes to an unsatisfying conclusion and is entirely forgettable.alk-on appearances, and there is a Prof. Schlemihl, (who, so satisfyingly, Lewis did not fail to mention, was quite a porker) but none of the main actors in ARROWSMITH will stick in your mind.  Romantic interests are added from time to time, like salt to soup.  I felt, as I read, that Lewis' real talent lay in caricature.  When he wrote, tongue-in-cheek, about the \\"small town glories\\" of 1920s and `30s America, and he let his imagination soar, he was unbeatable.  When he reined himself in, trying to be `serious' and `natural', he lost touch with that special genius.  Written in between four of his greatest novels---\\"Main Street\\" and \\"Babbitt\\" came before and \\"Elmer Gantry\\" and \\"Dodsworth\\" came after, I can only think that Lewis' imagination faltered when he wrote ARROWSMITH.  It comes to an unsatisfying conclusion and is entirely forgettable.	2001-08-17
US	52761040	RGQ6XRKN08SZF	0553214861	53359311	Babbitt (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	37	38	N	N	Peppy All-American Booster Weathers Mid-Life Crisis	Sinclair Lewis and Thomas Hart Benton, the artist, were about the same age, they both focussed on the American Heartland, and as I read Lewis, I see that they both had something else in common.  They both had a tendency to draw cartoonish characters.  George F. Babbitt is the main character of a satire by the same name; you might even laugh aloud in some places.  Lewis is skillful, but at times, heavy-handed.  He has portrayed an average Joe of 1920, the pep- and vim-obsessed go-getting businessman who was the bedrock of our industrial age, hypocritical, materialist, crooked, conformist, even proto-fascist.  Babbitt is a real estate agent, a family man surrounded by the wealth of material goods provided by thriving industrial capitalism.  He belongs enthusiastically and unquestioningly to any organization dedicated to preserving his and his family's ready access to those goods---professional group (realtors association), Boosters, church, and set social circle.  He spouts meaningless platitudes on every subject, knows nothing except the price of real estate and methods of collusion, and ignores his feelings, his family, and the rest of the world, all the while believing that his city, state, and country are the best in the world.  The first 90-odd pages of BABBITT are pure genius; one of the best character portraits you are likely to find in American literature---but it is a caricature after all.  Lewis' choice of names underlines his cartoonish glee in writing this brilliant novel---Vergil Gunch, Professor Pumphrey, Chet Laylock, Matt Penniman, Muriel Frink, Opal Mudge, Carrie Nork, and Miss McGoun---names that could have been annexed years later by MAD magazine !  &quot;Babbitt&quot; has long been a word in American English, signifying a conforming materialist citizen without a mind of his own.  Perhaps this is not entirely fair.<br />George goes through a mid-life crisis, rebels against his static, materialistic life with its know-nothing attitudes, its moral certitudes, and its boring routines.  His closest friend (aren't there certain unspoken overtones of homosexual love ?) commits a dastardly deed, breaking George's heart. &quot;On the rebound&quot;, he meets the fantastically-named Tanis Judique, femme fatale &agrave; la Midwest.  Certain consequences arise, Lewis brings in his ever-present fear of American fascist tendencies, and there's a rather hopeful ending, also in the American tradition.  If you are looking for a place to begin reading Sinclair Lewis, BABBITT is an excellent choice.  If you already know other Lewis novels, don't miss this one.  I would say that with \\"Main Street\\", \\"Elmer Gantry\\" and \\"Dodsworth\\", BABBITT is at the solid gold core of Sinclair Lewis' work.  He certainly did deserve that Nobel Prize.certitudes, and its boring routines.  His closest friend (aren't there certain unspoken overtones of homosexual love ?) commits a dastardly deed, breaking George's heart. &quot;On the rebound&quot;, he meets the fantastically-named Tanis Judique, femme fatale  la Midwest.  Certain consequences arise, Lewis brings in his ever-present fear of American fascist tendencies, and there's a rather hopeful ending, also in the American tradition.  If you are looking for a place to begin reading Sinclair Lewis, BABBITT is an excellent choice.  If you already know other Lewis novels, don't miss this one.  I would say that with \\"Main Street\\", \\"Elmer Gantry\\" and \\"Dodsworth\\", BABBITT is at the solid gold core of Sinclair Lewis' work.  He certainly did deserve that Nobel Prize.	2001-08-08
US	52761040	R1YIV2SNX45PS5	0807070335	807503799	The Gobi Desert (Virago/Beacon Travelers)	Books	4	20	22	N	N	Memories of a Vanished World	Around my neck of the woods, in eastern Massachusetts, on any Saturday morning except in winter, you can visit an endless number of yard sales.  At malls or in specialty shops, you know what you are going to find---in fact you select a particular store to get what you need.  Yard sales are different.  You never know what you will find; you rummage around and maybe come up with a treasure.  At least you can see what weird and wonderful items people have accumulated over a lifetime.  Mildred Cable's book on the Gobi Desert reminded me of a yard sale---and I like yard sales.<br />After many years as missionaries in Shansi province, where they learned fluent Chinese and absorbed the majority culture, Cable and her two female companions, all three Englishwomen, received permission to venture into the deserts of northwestern Kansu and eastern Xinjiang, then still known as Chinese Turkestan.  They spent around 13 years, from 1923 to 1936, wandering up and down the rutted desert tracks of this remote area, spreading Bibles and the word of God as known to Christians (and were not excessively denominational about it either).  THE GOBI DESERT then, does not exactly cover the whole Gobi Desert, for most of that vast area lies in Mongolia, where the ladies never set foot.  It is about the ancient civilizations and mixed ethnic groups (Chinese, Hui, Mongol, Kazakh, Uighur, Manchu, Russian) found in the territory between Suzhou and Urumchi, a breadth of country some 600 miles long, but much narrower due to the lack of water in most of it.  The \\"yard sale\\" quality of the book lies in the fact that everything is mixed together, but it's all interesting. There are many photographs, but I must say that in my edition (Virago paperback), they were mostly of poor quality.  From the history of Hs&uuml;an Tsang, who brought the Buddhist scriptures from India to China in the 7th century, to the art of hiring a proper carter, from the fantastic cavesful of Buddhist art at Dunhwang to a detailed description of the Muslim rebellion of 1930, it's all here.  The ladies fought scorpions, heat, duststorms, thirst, and exhaustion.  They met innkeepers, bandits, deserters, Muslim generals, abbots, princes, Russian refugees, nomads, lamas, and prostitutes.  They visited the many fertile oases, remote valleys, mountain strongholds, and salt lakes of a region that has changed dramatically since those days.  Though a committed missionary, Cable keeps preaching to a minimum in her book, which is a grab bag of impressions, adventures, and information that will keep your interest to the end.  THE GOBI DESERT is the kind of travel book not often seen anymore.  It is not an account of a \\"trip\\", but rather the winnowed result of thirteen years continuous travel in a particular region.  Most of all it is an account of a now-vanished world, a world erased by roads, wars, Communism, and massive Chinese immigration.  Read it.description of the Muslim rebellion of 1930, it's all here.  The ladies fought scorpions, heat, duststorms, thirst, and exhaustion.  They met innkeepers, bandits, deserters, Muslim generals, abbots, princes, Russian refugees, nomads, lamas, and prostitutes.  They visited the many fertile oases, remote valleys, mountain strongholds, and salt lakes of a region that has changed dramatically since those days.  Though a committed missionary, Cable keeps preaching to a minimum in her book, which is a grab bag of impressions, adventures, and information that will keep your interest to the end.  THE GOBI DESERT is the kind of travel book not often seen anymore.  It is not an account of a \\"trip\\", but rather the winnowed result of thirteen years continuous travel in a particular region.  Most of all it is an account of a now-vanished world, a world erased by roads, wars, Communism, and massive Chinese immigration.  Read it.	2001-08-02
US	52761040	R26ARF44EIUM3E	0028715306	202943475	Horn (Yehudi Menuhin music guides)	Books	3	11	16	N	N	If Little Boy Blue had been a Brain.......	Barry Tuckwell, from Melbourne, Australia, spent most of his life in the UK playing French horn in orchestras and as a soloist.  In his later years, he has become an American citizen and is teaching in various places in the USA.  No doubt he is the world's premier performer on this always-difficult instrument.  As such, his book will be of interest to people concerned with the French horn, its development, history, and techniques.  I doubt that there is any other book which covers the same ground with such a distinguished musician as the author.  From discussion of shofars and hunting horns to detailed descriptions of valve technology, from biographies of famous horn players (such as the Brains of England) to instructions to students and teachers, it's all there.  The text is sprinkled with numerous interesting photographs and diagrams. The chapter on composers and their use of French horn in various compositions is one of the most comprehensive.  To say that Tuckwell \\"knows his stuff\\" is pretty much of an insult, coming from me.  He's the world expert !  But unless you are a horn player or perhaps, the parent, wife, or husband of one, this book is going to prove rather too detailed or arcane.  Can you sight-read music ?  If not, a lot of pages are lost to you.  I read HORN because it's a book of a totally different kind than I usually read.  I got a lot of interesting information, but I was unfit to grasp much of what was offered.  I fear that will be the case for most people.  So, while this may be the five star book on the world of the French horn, it will remain a three star book for the average reader.  It is necessarily aimed at horn players and other musicians.  And by the way, neither Little Boy Blue nor Captain Horatio rate a mention	2001-07-26
US	52761040	R28F2IS2R06FEN	0048230308	180821670	Salka Valka	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Love and Icelandic politics actually do mix	The title of Bergman's film, \\"Through a Glass Darkly\\" comes to mind, not only because it, like this novel, is Scandinavian, but because I felt that I was reading SALKA VALKA through an encrusted window.  My edition, first published in England before WW II, was translated from the Danish which in turn had been translated from the original Icelandic.  The book certainly impressed me, but I wonder how much more vibrant and immediate it could have been if it were a) translated directly and b) not couched in prewar, middle class British idiom, which, whether you like it or not, is somewhat remote from Massachusetts some 65 years later.  I was not enamoured of mistakes like the use of `commissary' for `commissar' either...perhaps Soviet terminology was exotic for English translators in those days (or perhaps it's another example of dialect differences.)<br />  SALKA VALKA is much more than a character study of the woman whose nickname is the title of the novel.  It is an attempt by Laxness to write a love story in the context of social revolution.  That change, which rocked Iceland as deeply as any of the revolutions that took place elsewhere with more blood and drama, overthrew the centuries of grinding poverty that had oppressed the farmers and fishermen of that bleak but beautiful northern land.  The end of the monopolistic merchants---who bought and exported all the fish, owned the only store, and paid no wages, only allowing workers to withdraw goods against accounts---ushered in modern Iceland, one of the healthiest, best educated, and well-housed nations of our times.  Perhaps such books have been written with more outward drama---one thinks of Zola's \\"Germinal\\", Steinbeck's \\"The Grapes of Wrath\\", and Sholokhov's \\"And Quiet Flows the Don\\"---some with greater ideological content than others.  This is a political novel as well as being a kind of documentation of `how the steel was tempered' in the Icelandic context.  I may deliver myself of the comment that if Laxness had written in a Communist society, he never would have been allowed the shades of character, the wry humor, the outright political incorrectness (from a Marxist point of view) that we find in SALKA VALKA.  Since he did not live in such a society, the characters are well drawn, (all are real human beings with frailties, contradictions, and abrupt turns of behavior; not at all like the cardboard heroes of the Social Realism novels) the harsh natural environment vivid, and the love story sensitive.  Indeed, the last chapter is one of the most touching I have read in a long time.  I recommend this novel whole-heartedly---it is down to earth and avoids maudlin scenes at all costs--- but I advise readers to see if they can get a better translation.  Laxness won the Nobel Prize in 1955.  Now I know why.ess had written in a Communist society, he never would have been allowed the shades of character, the wry humor, the outright political incorrectness (from a Marxist point of view) that we find in SALKA VALKA.  Since he did not live in such a society, the characters are well drawn, (all are real human beings with frailties, contradictions, and abrupt turns of behavior; not at all like the cardboard heroes of the Social Realism novels) the harsh natural environment vivid, and the love story sensitive.  Indeed, the last chapter is one of the most touching I have read in a long time.  I recommend this novel whole-heartedly---it is down to earth and avoids maudlin scenes at all costs--- but I advise readers to see if they can get a better translation.  Laxness won the Nobel Prize in 1955.  Now I know why.	2001-07-24
US	52761040	R2H0CHEORBZR60	0064903524	625449459	Portugal and the Quest for the Indies	Books	4	5	5	N	N	&quot;Portuguese Tars Head South---How and Why ?&quot;	To tell the truth I don't know anything about Christopher Bell.  His name never cropped up in the many years I worked on former Portuguese India and was close to Indian Ocean studies.  I can't say he was much mentioned by my esteemed colleagues.  I bought his book one long ago day in Melbourne, Australia, and didn't get around to reading it for eighteen years.  A pity.  It's excellent.  If you can get past the first chapter---a storm of princes, relationships, and intrigues in which nearly everyone seems to be named \\"Henry\\" \\"Ines\\", or  \\"Juan\\"---the rest of the book is very smooth sailing.  Bell writes clear, fascinating prose about a complex topic---how Portugal, a small country at the edge of Europe, managed to explore the coast of Africa during the course of the 15th century and eventually, in 1497, sent Vasco da Gama on his successful voyage to India.  The book ends dramatically, as the Portuguese ships approach the Indian coast for the first time.<br />If you are looking for a shorter or simpler history of the whole Portuguese maritime enterprise, perhaps a precis of Boxer's work, forget it.  This book sensibly concentrates only on the initial exploratory voyages, with a lot of interesting detail on the Africans the voyagers met.  Bell apparently spent many years in Africa and seems to have an affinity for that continent's peoples.  It shows very favorably in his history, which explores often ignored byways.  We get interesting asides on Ethiopia and the early Portuguese connections to the Kingdom of Congo and the system of single voyagers who set off on often-incredible adventures, walking into the unknown reaches of Africa, just to provide the Portuguese King with information.  Bell deflates some legends and some \\"biggies\\" like Columbus and tends, if anything, to overstate the Portuguese achievements, which were no doubt considerable but hardly led to \\"the greatest empire the world had so far seen\\".  (Though it would have been truer if he had added the word \\"maritime\\".)  The epic poet, Cames, is  quoted extensively towards the end, detailing some of the glories of the explorers, but in today's world, when the views of Indians or East Africans can be heard along with Europeans', another view of the rapid Portuguese incursion into the Indian Ocean might resemble Hunter Thompson's view of the Hell's Angels---as a burst of dirty thunder.<br />Kings and captains, counsellors, queens, court intrigues, maps, reports, North African battles with the `Moors',  voyages and wrecks---they are all present here, but a broader social or economic picture is absent.  This is a history in the traditional sense, before the age of Braudel.  There is no attempt to generalize or connect to larger historical trends.  Nevertheless, PORTUGAL AND THE QUEST FOR THE INDIES is one of the most enjoyable history books I've read for some time.  It will hold your attention, you will understand the author's points without difficulty, and you will appreciate the vast enterprise of the Portuguese crown, sometimes conducted in enthusiastic haste, sometimes dragging, but ultimately changing much of the world.\\"maritime\\".)  The epic poet, Cames, is  quoted extensively towards the end, detailing some of the glories of the explorers, but in today's world, when the views of Indians or East Africans can be heard along with Europeans', another view of the rapid Portuguese incursion into the Indian Ocean might resemble Hunter Thompson's view of the Hell's Angels---as a burst of dirty thunder. <br />Kings and captains, counsellors, queens, court intrigues, maps, reports, North African battles with the `Moors',  voyages and wrecks---they are all present here, but a broader social or economic picture is absent.  This is a history in the traditional sense, before the age of Braudel.  There is no attempt to generalize or connect to larger historical trends.  Nevertheless, PORTUGAL AND THE QUEST FOR THE INDIES is one of the most enjoyable history books I've read for some time.  It will hold your attention, you will understand the author's points without difficulty, and you will appreciate the vast enterprise of the Portuguese crown, sometimes conducted in enthusiastic haste, sometimes dragging, but ultimately changing much of the world.	2001-07-05
US	52761040	RRLZYCP0QKVU1	0460038435	270375073	Identity card	Books	4	8	8	N	N	&quot;Kafka hits the Land of Khayyam&quot;	In ancient times, exile was reserved for a few unfortunates, often intellectuals who had disturbed the powers that were.  One thinks of Chinese poets or Roman philosophers.  Jews and Armenians were rare among peoples in being made up chiefly of exiles.  Siberia and Australia were once populated by exiled offenders of many kinds.  Yet it is our own age in which exile has become a widespread condition.  This is the era of refugees, immigrants, alienation and discontent.  The condition of being at home nowhere is very much one of our days.<br />Though I know almost nothing about him, F.M. Esfandiary must have been one such person, an Iranian used to the ways of the West and its greater personal freedoms, still feeling an outsider there, but alienated from the traditions and political climate of his homeland.  IDENTITY CARD is thus an autobiographical novel to some considerable extent.  A Westernized Iranian returns to Teheran after many years abroad.  He needs an identity card to leave the country again, but he has unfortunately lost his.  We have a Kafkaesque trek from office to office, with stops at various upper class parties and family dinners; we have a powerful sense of alienation and open dislike of the Shah, the Iranian political charades of the 1960s, and of the particular brand of social politesse current in Iran then.  Iran draws the protagonist, like the pliant lower-class woman he dallies with, but he no longer understands her---woman/Iran---though he may think he does.  Esfandiary criticizes Iran harshly for not being what he wishes it to be.  The West, on the other hand, is never criticized.  As a novel of Iran, then, IDENTITY CARD is highly suspect.  The author exposes the weaknesses of Iranian society, but never considers if all societies do not have inherent weaknesses.  Iran is guilty of corruption and authoritarianism.  Iranian poetry has turned shallow, Iran's officials are lazy and insincere, the Shah and his circle hogging the country's resources.  While this background earned him the enmity of the Shah's regime and meant that the manuscript had to be smuggled out of the country, the real theme of the novel can be found on pages 169-70.  \\"The gulf between him and his countrymen had widened irreparably, and although at times he felt an indefinable closeness to some of them....most of the time he felt he was an island that had been torn away from the mainland.....  He had outgrown his homeland, he had passed it by.  He had matured faster than his country had progressed and therefore he could never live on equal terms...with his countrymen.\\"  You feel Esfandiary's love and hate of Iran on every page.  His personal ambivalence is much stronger than the actual story.<br />I found this novel fascinating.  It echoes with the pain of exile, of the people who are no longer at home anywhere.  It gives a picture of Iranian society in the 1960s, albeit one-sided.  And on a broader plane, it is one of many novels published from the so-called Third World that portray the dilemmas of modernization in more graphic form than a shelf full of academic treatises.  IDENTITY CARD may not be `great literature' but it is an important book nevertheless.  I recommend it.s.  While this background earned him the enmity of the Shah's regime and meant that the manuscript had to be smuggled out of the country, the real theme of the novel can be found on pages 169-70.  \\"The gulf between him and his countrymen had widened irreparably, and although at times he felt an indefinable closeness to some of them....most of the time he felt he was an island that had been torn away from the mainland.....   He had outgrown his homeland, he had passed it by.  He had matured faster than his country had progressed and therefore he could never live on equal terms...with his countrymen.\\"  You feel Esfandiary's love and hate of Iran on every page.  His personal ambivalence is much stronger than the actual story.<br />I found this novel fascinating.  It echoes with the pain of exile, of the people who are no longer at home anywhere.  It gives a picture of Iranian society in the 1960s, albeit one-sided.  And on a broader plane, it is one of many novels published from the so-called Third World that portray the dilemmas of modernization in more graphic form than a shelf full of academic treatises.  IDENTITY CARD may not be `great literature' but it is an important book nevertheless.  I recommend it.	2001-07-05
US	52761040	R1BAU16ZQKF79H	0813115787	760612481	The Faroe Islands: Interpretations of History	Books	4	23	23	N	N	Fish and Literature Build a Nation	The Faroe Islands cover about 540 square miles of steep green territory in the stormy North Atlantic and only 34 square miles of that is arable.  Most of the rest is turned over to sheep, whose wool long provided material for the export of stockings.  Settled first by Scandinavian farmers and fishermen in the 9th century, the Faroes did not differ greatly from other Norse outposts of the time.  They lost their independence in the 13th century, being ruled then from Norway, were decimated by plague in the 14th century, and soon transferred to Danish control under the Union of Kalmar which united Denmark with Norway for centuries.  Though semi-autonomous---with their own postage stamps and World Cup football team---the Faroes are still linked to Denmark today.<br />Given the lack of much solid information about the early period of Faroese history, Jonathan Wylie had to concentrate on later times.  His history has the feel of an anthropologist straining at the leash, dashing impetuously and gladly towards an anthropological theme, then reluctantly returning to the task at hand.  Perhaps an out-and-out book of anthropology would have been better.  Not that THE FAROE ISLANDS, INTERPRETATIONS OF HISTORY is bad, but Wylie excels in the \\"interpretations\\" rather than in the presentation of straight history.  He concentrates on economic and church life in the 1500-1800 period when for a long time Faroes trade was completely dominated by a government monopoly, the result of which was that little change occured in society.  To better portray the feel of society at the time, he analyzes some folk tales.  This is among the most fascinating parts of the book and again shows where his true talents lie.  The conservatism of Faroe society extended even to population control.  The authorities prevented landless people from marrying !  The Danish language was used in religion and commerce, but at home people still spoke Faroese.  When, in the 19th century, an economic revolution occured with the end of the Monopoly and the birth of a modern fishing industry, it was accompanied by a rise in population and in the status of the local language too.  Language and literature became the vehicle for increasing demands for self-rule.  Linguistics and linguistics professors played a major role in Faroese history, unlike in any other country I've ever heard of.  Wylie does an excellent job in describing the links between language and national feeling.  By 1920, he says, \\"...although the Faroes did not become a nation in political fact, they had essentially acquired a national culture: a shared sense of political and cultural distinctiveness articulated in locally based, locally staffed formal institutions as well as in a set of internationally and locally recognized symbols of nationhood.\\"<br />This is an academic work, a book for scholars, not for Lonely Planet fans.  You are going to find masses of names, wade through a lot of complicated information.  And you will find references within the text, an unpleasant feature of many academic books.  However, I note the above only to alert general readers.  THE FAROE ISLANDS is a thoughtful, interesting work which must be useful to anyone with a serious desire to understand Faroe society in history.  The comparisons with Iceland and the Shetlands in the conclusion are especially fascinating.  If you stay the course, you will come away with many insights into a small, but interesting part of the world.red with the end of the Monopoly and the birth of a modern fishing industry, it was accompanied by a rise in population and in the status of the local language too.  Language and literature became the vehicle for increasing demands for self-rule.  Linguistics and linguistics professors played a major role in Faroese history, unlike in any other country I've ever heard of.  Wylie does an excellent job in describing the links between language and national feeling.  By 1920, he says, \\"...although the Faroes did not become a nation in political fact, they had essentially acquired a national culture: a shared sense of political and cultural distinctiveness articulated in locally based, locally staffed formal institutions as well as in a set of internationally and locally recognized symbols of nationhood.\\"<br />This is an academic work, a book for scholars, not for Lonely Planet fans.  You are going to find masses of names, wade through a lot of complicated information.  And you will find references within the text, an unpleasant feature of many academic books.  However, I note the above only to alert general readers.  THE FAROE ISLANDS is a thoughtful, interesting work which must be useful to anyone with a serious desire to understand Faroe society in history.  The comparisons with Iceland and the Shetlands in the conclusion are especially fascinating.  If you stay the course, you will come away with many insights into a small, but interesting part of the world.	2001-06-26
US	52761040	RMAZZZ6Q88MRR	0806506490	276664375	The Frontier Jews	Books	2	4	4	N	N	Schleppers in Coonskin Caps	I bought this book many years ago and, as it sat on my shelf, thought that it would be an extremely interesting topic.  After all, the huge majority of Jews in the USA are descended from the Eastern European Jews who poured into the big cities from 1880 onwards.  I am certainly one of them myself.  Growing up in the days of TV series on Daniel Boone and Davy Crockett, not to mention &quot;Rawhide&quot;, &quot;Gunsmoke&quot; and a thousand more, I often felt sidelined.  I was American, for sure, but my grandparents were studying Torah or running a junk business in New England, not out there trading with the Indians, being soldiers, pirates, pioneers, farmers, and supporters of Independence.  So, the very title &quot;Frontier Jews&quot; promised me something that I couldn't get in my own family history---to show me how I too was a part of the great American legend.<br />FRONTIER JEWS has nuggets of the wonderful stuff I always hoped it would, but it is not written very well, alas.  The author often mixes stories or includes trivial details while neglecting to explain the basics.  Then, sometimes he explains details of mainstream American history (the War of 1812, mound building Indians, etc.) that may be known to most readers interested in the more specialized topic of frontier Jews.  Three other unfortunate patterns mark this book which could have been so fascinating.  First, the writer did not choose a definite style.  When you write a history, either you plump for the facts and nothing but the facts (academic style) or you go for the more romantic style of playing with facts mixed with imagination, aiming to entrance the readers and keep them glued to the page.  Sharfman falls on both sides of this divide and it is not a fortuitous ploy. You wonder how much is fact and how much is imagination.  Readers cannot absorb the vast number of family details provided here, the comings and goings of various Jewish pioneers as discovered in their letters, in journals, newsletters, etc.  Suddenly a description of jewelry or facial features, mood or temperament....it jars.  The second is a kind of ingenuous wonderment at details that are not so surprising.  Such and such a Jewish pioneer kept the Sabbath and refused to eat pork !  Isn't that wonderful !  Much shaking of the head at the miracle of it all.  A kind of self-congratulatory tone that I tired of very quickly.  It may be all right in a sermon, but not in a book. It is a human habit to stick to one's familiar customs and patterns---just read anything on overseas Chinese or Indians. The third fault is a corollary of the second.  When you write a history book--it seems to me accepted by all--you do not scold certain people for habits that you do not approve of, i.e. marrying Christians or converting.  This tut-tutting was not worthy of a book on a very interesting topic.  I really don't recommend FRONTIER JEWS to anyone except those who have more will power than I could muster.etters, etc.  Suddenly a description of jewelry or facial features, mood or temperament....it jars.  The second is a kind of ingenuous wonderment at details that are not so surprising.  Such and such a Jewish pioneer kept the Sabbath and refused to eat pork !  Isn't that wonderful !  Much shaking of the head at the miracle of it all.  A kind of self-congratulatory tone that I tired of very quickly.  It may be all right in a sermon, but not in a book. It is a human habit to stick to one's familiar customs and patterns---just read anything on overseas Chinese or Indians. The third fault is a corollary of the second.  When you write a history book--it seems to me accepted by all--you do not scold certain people for habits that you do not approve of, i.e. marrying Christians or converting.  This tut-tutting was not worthy of a book on a very interesting topic.  I really don't recommend FRONTIER JEWS to anyone except those who have more will power than I could muster.	2001-06-26
US	52761040	R2RG4R7Q1NTAZ1	0061056073	812669686	The Compass Rose	Books	2	13	18	N	N	Le Guin and Bear It	Over the years I have always thought of Ursula Le Guin as a very brave and non-conforming sort of person.  I have kept her photograph on my wall for the last 15 years.  The reason for my admiration was that I felt (and feel) that she is a writer of major talent who decided to enter the field of science fiction and get labelled as a \\"sci-fi writer\\" when she could have won many honors and perhaps a more lasting place in history in mainstream literature.  Her works do not cater to the broad popular tastes in fiction, but such novels as \\"The Left Hand of Darkness\\",  \\"The Lathe of Heaven\\",  \\"The Dispossessed\\" and \\"Always Coming Home\\" plus her works of juvenile fiction and collections of short stories add up to a body of spectacularly well-written material that is denied its place in the annals of American literature by the peculiar prejudice that segregates certain kinds of fiction into closed cells.  I read most of Le Guin's books as soon as they hit the shelves, long ago, before  science fiction became reality with the Internet and Amazon.com.  For some reason, though I bought THE COMPASS ROSE fifteen years ago, I never got around to reading it till now.  I must say that it was largely disappointing.  There are some good stories in this collection, stories such as \\"The New Atlantis\\" and \\"The Diary of the Rose\\", also &quot;The Pathways of Desire&quot; which links exploration of space with dreams, but other stories seem hasty, `cute' or aimed at the readers of airport fiction.  In general, Le Guin is at her best when she creates new worlds or postulates possible futures.  Her blend of anthropology and fiction has always thrilled me.  As she moves away from that, into more general fiction on the contemporary world, unless she crafts the story carefully, as with &quot;Two Delays on the Northern Line&quot;--a real gem--she loses her edge. Her stories become filled with sunshine, conversing rocks, and whispering leaves, but without much punch.  There are twenty stories in THE COMPASS ROSE.  Half a dozen are up to her fine standard, others-perhaps the humorous pieces-may please many readers, but a few probably should have been kept in the drawer.  (Though if I had written them, I would have been quite proud, no doubt.  We are talking quality control here.)  If you are wondering where to begin Le Guin, this is not the place. Put it last on your list.  But begin, of course.E COMPASS ROSE.  Half a dozen are up to her fine standard, others-perhaps the humorous pieces-may please many readers, but a few probably should have been kept in the drawer.  (Though if I had written them, I would have been quite proud, no doubt.  We are talking quality control here.)  If you are wondering where to begin Le Guin, this is not the place. Put it last on your list.  But begin, of course.	2001-06-06
US	52761040	R212M334V9H9A5	0140442510	998141222	Lost Illusions (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	55	58	N	N	&quot;Kokomo Kid Comes a Cropper in Big Smoke&quot;	Balzac was one of the best writers of the 19th century, he is France's greatest novelist in my opinion, and one of the best who ever lived.  LOST ILLUSIONS is perhaps his greatest work, one of the great novels of world literature.  With statements like these, you better believe I'm not going to pan this book. I first read it in Thailand back in 1984---the sense of contrast between my physical and mental surroundings at the time was like sugar and chilli pepper.  I recently reread it and found it just as good.<br />I like novels that give me a sense of time and place.  Balzac, unlike many great authors, set out to give his readers exactly that.  The vast sweep of French, and more particularly, Parisian society, that he depicts in \\"The Human Comedy\\"---the varied series of novels by other names that he wrote over his relatively short lifetime---cannot but amaze any reader.  \\"Old Goriot\\", \\"Cousin Bette\\", \\"The History of the Thirteen\\", \\"Eugenie Grandet\\" and others are wonderful books, but I would say that this is his best. Balzac investigates everything; no detail is too unimportant.  In the present work, we learn about the petty intrigues of provincial society, paper making, the printing business, the theater, journalism, Paris high society, the book trade, the legal profession, Paris styles and that's just a start. Where Tolstoy described the early 19th century Russian upper class with romance, philosophy, and general benevolence, Balzac writes with cynicism and a down-to-earth realism. We meet snobs, idiots, geniuses, knaves, priests, poets, politicians, intellectuals, misers, wastrels, whores, rogues, lechers, dandies, and ambitious businessmen of all kinds.  Natasha never goes to a ball wide-eyed and innocent in Balzac.  At 682 pages, LOST ILLUSIONS is not a quick read, but you will savor every page.  The plot does not get bogged down in description either, but keeps you wondering right up to the last page.  There are actually two stories that dovetail neatly.  Two young men full of ambition go in opposite directions.  One opts for the easy road of flash and fashion, making good impressions with the right people, the other for the lonely, penurious road of hard work as an inventor.  The stories separate as Lucien Chardon, the would-be poet, goes to Paris, and David S&eacute;chard stays in their provincial hometown.  They join again when Lucien comes home in defeat, and the ending is a surprise turn.  LOST ILLUSIONS, to me, is nearly a perfect novel, both entertaining and informative.  Balzac makes the world of France in the early 1820s come alive---you can almost taste the oysters, you feel the pulse of a society desperate for life and pleasure after a generation of war.  You can grasp the full meaning of the word &quot;provincialism&quot;.  If you have any taste for classical literature, don't miss this book !  When I measure novels, this one of the handful which I use as my measuring stick.young men full of ambition go in opposite directions.  One opts for the easy road of flash and fashion, making good impressions with the right people, the other for the lonely, penurious road of hard work as an inventor.  The stories separate as Lucien Chardon, the would-be poet, goes to Paris, and David Schard stays in their provincial hometown.  They join again when Lucien comes home in defeat, and the ending is a surprise turn.   LOST ILLUSIONS, to me, is nearly a perfect novel, both entertaining and informative.  Balzac makes the world of France in the early 1820s come alive---you can almost taste the oysters, you feel the pulse of a society desperate for life and pleasure after a generation of war.  You can grasp the full meaning of the word &quot;provincialism&quot;.  If you have any taste for classical literature, don't miss this book !  When I measure novels, this one of the handful which I use as my measuring stick.	2001-05-29
US	52761040	R3J4H4O1PU1131	0700201963	602465566	Priests and Cobblers (Studies in social and economic change)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	The Way They Were	Last year, on a visit to Oaxaca, Mexico, I was surprised to see a graffito scrawled on a house wall reading \\"Long live popular war in Peru and Nepal !\\"  In the US, public awareness of the Maoist insurgency underway in rural Nepal is, to say the least, minimal.  When I travelled in Nepal in the mid-sixties, insurgency or rebellion of the downtrodden was not even a dot on the horizon, nor was it so four years later when Patricia Caplan did the research for this book in a western Nepal village.  Nepal had seven million inhabitants and was one of the most isolated countries of the world, with only a single road in the whole nation.  Today, 32 years after the research was done, Nepal has almost 25 million inhabitants, an average per capita income of $170 a year, more roads, tourism, severe environmental problems, the worst adult literacy rate in the world (only 27% of the population can read) and agriculture still engages over 80% of the population.  I was interested to read Caplan's book to see if I could learn what lies behind this rather abysmal picture.  I wanted to know if she saw the seeds of the insurgency in those times.<br />PRIESTS AND COBBLERS is anthropology of a very limited kind.  It is a short study of the economy and politics of a single Nepali community with special attention to caste and of the changes in the traditional society that were brought about by some economic development, land reform, and the \\"panchayat system\\" in the 1960s.  The book was part of a series exploring social and economic change in many parts of the world.  Thus, the style---dry academic---may have been set in advance.  No Nepalese have a voice here, in depth description is absent, nor does the author put herself in the picture.  It is 96 pages of strict attention to a single issue (change) with some discussion of similar work in India in the conclusion.  Though it was sold as a book, it may really be a very long journal article.  She mentions many problems---chronic indebtedness, unequal distribution of land, unequal access to cash, the need to migrate to earn a living, moneylenders getting control of land, corruption and nepotism in local government, high infant mortality and low literacy.  Caste played a major role in deciding access to land, to government posts, to cash, and to education.  The most interesting part of the book for me was her descriptions of village land disputes and factional politics which showed how much caste was tied into these things.  The untouchables, a large percent of the population, were increasingly independent.  The high castes sensed the change and did not view it positively.  \\"It does not mean that a revolution is feared in the village\\" she wrote, \\"the untouchables have no hope of achieving real power there, but it is in the interests of the high castes to see that the untouchables do not benefit too much from the recent changes.\\" [p.80]  Perhaps with the advantage of hindsight, we can say that she was right at the time, but ultimately wrong.  The current rebels, whoever they are, are overrunning police posts and already dominate much of the countryside.  Something went wrong.  Perhaps patience ran out.  I would recommend PRIESTS AND COBBLERS only to someone who wants to trace the roots of the current troubles in the Nepal of over 30 years ago.  It is dry, outdated and limited in appeal and so is neither a book for a general reader, nor fascinating anthropology.edness, unequal distribution of land, unequal access to cash, the need to migrate to earn a living, moneylenders getting control of land, corruption and nepotism in local government, high infant mortality and low literacy.  Caste played a major role in deciding access to land, to government posts, to cash, and to education.  The most interesting part of the book for me was her descriptions of village land disputes and factional politics which showed how much caste was tied into these things.  The untouchables, a large percent of the population, were increasingly independent.  The high castes sensed the change and did not view it positively.  \\"It does not mean that a revolution is feared in the village\\" she wrote, \\"the untouchables have no hope of achieving real power there, but it is in the interests of the high castes to see that the untouchables do not benefit too much from the recent changes.\\" [p.80]  Perhaps with the advantage of hindsight, we can say that she was right at the time, but ultimately wrong.  The current rebels, whoever they are, are overrunning police posts and already dominate much of the countryside.  Something went wrong.  Perhaps patience ran out.  I would recommend PRIESTS AND COBBLERS only to someone who wants to trace the roots of the current troubles in the Nepal of over 30 years ago.  It is dry, outdated and limited in appeal and so is neither a book for a general reader, nor fascinating anthropology.	2001-05-09
US	52761040	R394HPEF69OUNW	0688029582	642764065	The dark kingdoms: The impact of white civilization on three great African monarchies	Books	4	3	3	N	N	a readable introduction to some African history	The subtitle of this work is \\"the impact of white civilization on three great African monarchies\\".  The author states that many African kingdoms succumbed to the pressure of a new civilization and new technology.  Some tried to adapt to the new ways, others retreated or fought against them.  It mattered little which tactic they adopted.  Most African kingdoms disappeared under the onslaught of European colonialism.  A few survived, but always as puppets or anachronisms living at the mercy of a colonial power.  Scholefield's aim is to tell the story of three such kingdoms---the old kingdom of Congo, Dahomey, and Lesotho---widely separated geographically, but sharing similar struggles.  He does so on the basis of English language sources only.<br />South African-born author of seven novels by 1974, Alan Scholefield comes to comparative history with a gift for story-telling and capturing interesting details.  THE DARK KINGDOMS is certainly well-written and will keep your attention.  Whether or not it is professional history is another question.  I would say that this volume is excellent for whetting one's appetite for a knowledge of African history, for getting students interested in various questions in the field, and as a starting point for further readings.  However, the author does not stick to his topic, often wandering into byways and circumlocutions that are fascinating, but produce no ammunition for his stated aim of describing the impact of Europe on Africa.  The tendency is most acute in the section on Dahomey, where Richard Burton, his life and activities in Africa take over from the matter at hand.  I felt that Scholefield really does not say what impact Europe had on Dahomey, other than a kind of postscript in which he tells how the French finally took over, while his chapter was entirely on the English !  The chapter on Lesotho and its relations with English, Afrikaaners, and other African peoples is best, perhaps because the story is most familiar to the author.  In addition, too much time may have been spent detailing lurid episodes of cannibalism, ritual murder, the slave trade, tribal wars, etc.  This always draws in readers, true, but is it necessary for a serious history ?  In conclusion, I cannot say THE DARK KINGDOMS is bad.  There are interesting illustrations and three decent maps.  The author attempted to be fair in his portraits, he wrote interestingly, and I enjoyed the book.  Is it good history ?  Did he write what he said he was going to write ?  These questions made me hesitate to give it four stars, but I do so on the basis of readability.author.   In addition, too much time may have been spent detailing lurid episodes of cannibalism, ritual murder, the slave trade, tribal wars, etc.  This always draws in readers, true, but is it necessary for a serious history ?   In conclusion, I cannot say THE DARK KINGDOMS is bad.  There are interesting illustrations and three decent maps.  The author attempted to be fair in his portraits, he wrote interestingly, and I enjoyed the book.  Is it good history ?  Did he write what he said he was going to write ?  These questions made me hesitate to give it four stars, but I do so on the basis of readability.	2001-05-04
US	52761040	R32UV09NX3S2ZW	0720604001	852140673	Light and Darkness: An Unfinished Novel (UNESCO Collection of Representative Works: Japanese Series) (English and Japanese Edition)	Books	3	5	9	N	N	The Lotus of Truth Grows from the Muck of Daily Life	No doubt some novels are much more difficult to translate than others, but the problem is usually that the translator must transform the scintillating language of the original into equally attractive language in the translation.  Works like \\"The Master and Margarita\\" (Bulgakov) or \\"The Devil to Pay in the Backlands\\" (Guimaraes Rosa) come to mind.  What to do, though, when the original consists of purposely vague and banal conversation for hundreds of pages ?  This is the problem faced by translators of LIGHT AND DARKNESS, Natsume Soseki's last work.  Soseki's concern with human psychology, the minutiae of daily life, and Buddhist philosophy create a novel that is structurally deep and subtle, but boring in form.  Soseki focusses on contradictions in human nature---love vs. self-centeredness, honesty vs. falsity, egoism vs. selflessness, for some examples.  His five main characters show varied combinations of positions on these continuums and the novel may have been meant to show their transformation towards more enlightened states.  Their progress is slow, almost imperceptible.  There is a soap opera-ish quality introduced by the fact that it was serialized in a newspaper in 1916 over 188 days.  They engage in endless conversations of extreme mediocrity--the dialogue is nothing if not wooden in English, but I wonder if it could be more exciting in Japanese ?  Perhaps it would only seem more natural.<br />Tsuda goes to the hospital for a minor operation.  O-Nobu, his wife, visits him, visits her relatives and gets some extra money which the couple needs because they are rather extravagant.  Kobayashi, a poor, unemployed former friend, visits Tsuda and advises him to change his attitudes, vaguely threatens to reveal his (not so colorful) past to O-Nobu.  Kobayashi visits O-Nobu too, but nothing happens.  Tsuda's sister tries to get him to realize his obligations towards his parents.  Mrs. Yoshikawa, the wife of Tsuda's boss and a meddler, tries to get Tsuda to change his ways too, sending him to a hot spring resort where at last he meets Kiyoko, a former love, of pure heart, now married to another man.  That is the entire story.  The reader must concentrate on attitudes and psychology because action is nearly nil, conversations banal. Soseki's ability to probe each character's psyche, both male and female, is at its brilliant height. We don't learn the conclusion because Soseki died before the novel was finished.  While Buddhist philosophy and stories planned on a vast scale may appeal to some, I would have to disagree with the translator's comments in my edition.  LIGHT AND DARKNESS is neither the best modern Japanese novel, nor Soseki's masterpiece.  It is atypical.  I am glad that I read it, but that is more because I wanted to know Soseki's work.  Put it down to curiosity if you will. If your taste runs to philosophically complex and extremely insightful literature, you may find this a wonderful novel. It is certainly original.  However, even though LIGHT AND DARKNESS is widely praised in Japan, I have to look at it from the point of view of potential readers in other countries.  I would not recommend it to people looking for \\"a good novel\\" in a standard sense, or for an idea about Japanese literature in general.nge his ways too, sending him to a hot spring resort where at last he meets Kiyoko, a former love, of pure heart, now married to another man.  That is the entire story.  The reader must concentrate on attitudes and psychology because action is nearly nil, conversations banal. Soseki's ability to probe each character's psyche, both male and female, is at its brilliant height. We don't learn the conclusion because Soseki died before the novel was finished.   While Buddhist philosophy and stories planned on a vast scale may appeal to some, I would have to disagree with the translator's comments in my edition.  LIGHT AND DARKNESS is neither the best modern Japanese novel, nor Soseki's masterpiece.  It is atypical.  I am glad that I read it, but that is more because I wanted to know Soseki's work.  Put it down to curiosity if you will. If your taste runs to philosophically complex and extremely insightful literature, you may find this a wonderful novel. It is certainly original.  However, even though LIGHT AND DARKNESS is widely praised in Japan, I have to look at it from the point of view of potential readers in other countries.  I would not recommend it to people looking for \\"a good novel\\" in a standard sense, or for an idea about Japanese literature in general.	2001-04-26
US	52761040	RWAOUZ0LBQMLF	0939512459	698775964	Grass on the Wayside (Michigan Classics in Japanese Studies)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	&quot;I am a Rat &quot;	If you aren't familiar with the life of Natsume Soseki (and how many non-Japanese are ?), you could be forgiven for not realizing that this is an autobiographical novel.  The introductory notes in my edition told me so, that's how I found out.  With this information, you will soon understand that the author was an unsparing critic of himself.  Pessimistic, dark and revealing of his most selfish behavior, GRASS ON THE WAYSIDE tunnels through the underground emotions and suppressed angers of the author's penurious life.  Soseki's view of marriage and family ties is extremely bleak.  \\"People didn't really change very much, he thought, they only decayed.\\" (p.112)  He certainly included himself.  Apparently he took no pleasure in any human relationship.  The people who inhabit these pages are constantly sick and poor, but receive little to no sympathy or love from those closest to them.  Like most of Soseki's novels, this one explores a certain palette of emotional colors, none of them bright.  Unlike others, GRASS ON THE WAYSIDE has more activity, more characters described in greater detail, and rather than being smooth like \\"Sanshiro\\", \\"Kokoro\\" or \\"The Three-Cornered World\\", it has a certain uneven rhythm or start-stop quality in its 102 chapters.  I feel this originates in the fact that it was serialized in the Tokyo daily `Asahi Shimbun' when it first appeared.<br />\\"Activity\\" is a relative word.  For most of the novel, Kenzo, the protagonist, wrestles with the dilemma of how to avoid the requests for money of a former foster father and that man's estranged wife.  As he struggles to escape the onerous demands of a man he feels he owes nothing, we meet Kenzo's brother and sister, their spouses, and his wife and her relatives.  A few other characters also appear.  Soseki still prefers introspective analysis to action in the Western sense.  Kenzo does not act on his problem until Chapter 90.  His decision is nearly coincidental with the birth of his third child.  At the end, he muses, \\"Hardly anything in this life is settled.  Things that happened once will go on happening.  But they come back in different guises and that's what fools us.\\"  If definite endings and complicated plots are your love, better skip this book.  GRASS ON THE WAYSIDE is a typically Japanese novel by a Meiji period author, slow, indefinite, psychologically complex, and in this case autobiographical.  I happen to admire Natsume Soseki greatly, but I concede that he might not be to everyone's taste.the end, he muses, \\"Hardly anything in this life is settled.  Things that happened once will go on happening.  But they come back in different guises and that's what fools us.\\"  If definite endings and complicated plots are your love, better skip this book.  GRASS ON THE WAYSIDE is a typically Japanese novel by a Meiji period author, slow, indefinite, psychologically complex, and in this case autobiographical.  I happen to admire Natsume Soseki greatly, but I concede that he might not be to everyone's taste.	2001-04-20
US	52761040	R38LP2GBKDBN23	0895267152	594682043	Kokoro	Books	4	172	181	N	N	Shades of Friendship, Shadows of Sacrifice	Classic Western novels usually concentrate on plot and some action which delineates it, though there are many exceptions to the rule.  Japanese novels, however, often focus on human feelings first of all, with plot taking a distant second place.  Natsume Soseki's novels fit very well into this framework and KOKORO is a strong example.  ['Kokoro' means &quot;heart&quot; or &quot;feelings&quot;.] The book is divided into three parts.  The first explores the relationship between the narrator and Sensei, a lonely intellectual who maintains few contacts with the world, but explains life to the innocent narrator, a student, who bears a passing relationship to Carlos Castaneda in &quot;The Teachings of Don Juan&quot; because he steadfastly fails &quot;to get it&quot;.  The second part portrays the relationship of the narrator to his parents, while the third and longest part is a testament by Sensei explaining to the young narrator why he became the type of man he is, i.e. he tells his life story.  Though the relationships between narrator, Sensei, a young girl, and a fellow-student named only K are explored in depth, there is little of what might be termed plot.  Despite there being a love triangle and two suicides, the author prefers to concentrate on the characters' thoughts instead of details of action.  Soseki's skill is such that he fascinates the reader with the exploration of personality.  There is no florid pyschoanalysis, no sex, no wall-banging despair and certain aspects are never explained---for example, why the narrator liked Sensei to begin with.  Yet, by the end of the novel, the reader has a strong picture of the narrator, Sensei, and the unfortunate K.  You understand their motivations and feel, as in so much great literature of all countries, the helplessness of Man, the vanity of Life.<br />We may say that in KOKORO, Soseki wrote about the different shades of friendship that exist between people and asks if it is really possible to have a true friend.  The corollary is then, are we not all alone ?  Are not friendship and love cosmetics to cover basic loneliness ?  People speak of sacrifice, but more often than not, they sacrifice not themselves, but others, at the shrine of their own desolation.  These are universal themes and so KOKORO is an interesting novel which I recently re-read.  If you are looking for a good introduction into modern Japanese literature, this is definitely an excellent choice---mature, thought-provoking, and well-written.he corollary is then, are we not all alone ?  Are not friendship and love cosmetics to cover basic loneliness ?  People speak of sacrifice, but more often than not, they sacrifice not themselves, but others, at the shrine of their own desolation.  These are universal themes and so KOKORO is an interesting novel which I recently re-read.  If you are looking for a good introduction into modern Japanese literature, this is definitely an excellent choice---mature, thought-provoking, and well-written.	2001-04-17
US	52761040	R3VQRILEJU1SA5	0870113674	324016438	Botchan	Books	4	34	35	N	N	A rough diamond in Japan	In every country, people treasure certain images of themselves, whether they are accurate or not.  In general, among numerous peoples like the Chinese, Japanese, French, Russians, or English, there are so many personality types as to make such images totally stereotypical.  In real life, we have to take people as we find them, not stick them into boxes.  But in literature, from time to time, an author creates a character that so pleases the readers---perhaps because they identify with him so much---that he (the character) is immediately assigned a place in the national pantheon.  BOTCHAN, the title character of the novel of the same name, is one of them.  Created by Natsume Soseki in the early years of the 20th century, Botchan still delights each subsequent generation with his honest, sincere naivet&eacute;.  He is a young Japanese man who may not understand much of what's happening around him, but he stands by his simple principles, dispensing with all unnecessary formality, falseness, and fakery.  In a society where politesse, social obligation and a certain measure of conformity are highly stressed, it must be a pleasure to read the tale of a young man who says what he thinks, refuses to behave politely, and consistently acts as he decides best.  If he is not much of a rebel by American or European standards, he is a much beloved &quot;straight shooter&quot; by tighter Japanese measure.  This book has been popular in Japan since its first publication and I would guess the reason is that Botchan's behavior mirrors what Japanese would 'like to be' more than the way they actually are.  The rough diamond is a stock character in Japanese films and television shows from Mifune Toshiro's many &quot;scungy-but-good hearted&quot; samurai to the wildly-popular Tora-san.<br />Westerners may not find much of a plot in BOTCHAN, but it is amusing, well-written, and enjoyable.  It is a window on an older Japan far from bullet trains and animated violence.  It is the story of a new young teacher in an isolated provincial town.  I strongly recommend it for anyone, young or old.  Botchan is one of those characters who will live forever in world literature.young teacher in an isolated provincial town.  I strongly recommend it for anyone, young or old.  Botchan is one of those characters who will live forever in world literature.	2001-04-14
US	52761040	R2J4PMK1VPTB2Z	1555971245	719208961	The Saddest Pleasure: A Journey on Two Rivers (A Graywolf Memoir)	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Stop it, I love it !	I had heard neither of book nor author when I unexpectedly received this book from a friend.  She mentioned its being a book which presented a strong sense of place.  It is indeed that, but rather more as well.  Moritz Thomsen lived in Ecuador for a number of years, but then, for various reasons, launched on an extended voyage around Brazil, from Rio up the coast, around to B&eacute;lem, and then along the Amazon to Manaus.  The real voyage, however, was along the twisted, frazzled byways of his soul, a journey so painful that no physical hardship could rival it.  Thomsen is no doubt a good writer, because the ultimate picture we get is exactly the one he saw---peering out at Brazil through the miasmic forests of his excruciating memories.  We meet a few strange or pathetic characters---but very few, mostly other foreigners---we view Brazil through his jaded, pessimistic lens, and most of all we delve into his past.  He takes us along two rivers---the Amazon in a boat, and a jungle river in western Ecuador in his mind---but there is no retrieving him from the tangled mess of an awful life.  The book is excellently constructed, it is honest in the style of Tobias Wolff, it has riveting descriptions of nature and of a life among poor Ecuadorians that few outsiders, save Peace Corps Volunteers, might ever have known.  Thomsen understands and describes very accurately the deep exploitation of millions of people in Latin America, an oppresion that is nearly impossible to break, given the policies of rich countries.  But ultimately, how you like this book is going to depend on your own personality, your own taste in tragedy.  Thomsen starts with a quotation from Paul Theroux about travel being the saddest of pleasures.  I felt that Thomsen did not prove the point.  He is a man who spent most of his life rejecting everything that he could have been, everything that his arrogant, abusive father wanted him to be.  He accomplished very little, made a total mess out of his life, had no (visible)lasting relationships, and at last came to a vague realization in his sixties that he was a 'writer'.  I doubt if he can ever escape from the clutches of his long-dead father---will he ever be able to write anything beyond that endless battle ?  Describing his life was no doubt the saddest of his pleasures and reading it, for some people, may be labelled a close second.  In a way, I wish I had not read THE SADDEST PLEASURE.  I prefer my pleasures separate from my tragedies and while such separation is not always possible, I do not savor the juxtaposition.no (visible)lasting relationships, and at last came to a vague realization in his sixties that he was a 'writer'.  I doubt if he can ever escape from the clutches of his long-dead father---will he ever be able to write anything beyond that endless battle ?  Describing his life was no doubt the saddest of his pleasures and reading it, for some people, may be labelled a close second.  In a way, I wish I had not read THE SADDEST PLEASURE.  I prefer my pleasures separate from my tragedies and while such separation is not always possible, I do not savor the juxtaposition.	2001-04-12
US	52761040	R1H8I5HYDM2GRA	0805012478	857469136	Steppenwolf: A Novel	Books	3	88	125	N	N	A sip of literary Manischewitz	When I was thirteen and went to many barmitzvahs, chugging down little cups of Manischewitz in a back room was considered exciting and daring.  We hardly cared that it was incredibly sweet and not relished by many adults.  Manishewitz was wine and the \\"alcoholic experience\\".  By drinking it, we were participating, we were engaging in adult activity.  I seldom drink any of that wine now, though a sip or two over the years keeps me convinced I'm not missing much.  As with wines, I think it's fair to say that some books belong to different parts of life.  Children's books give way to those meant for teenagers.  Then there are some that seem to be exactly right when you've left home, maybe gone to college.  Among the latter are Ayn Rand's works, Khalil Gibran, maybe \\"Catcher in the Rye\\", Kerouac's \\"On the Road\\", and the works of Hermann Hesse.  You're young, you're looking for meaning, for the \\"real you\\", perhaps for a counterpoint to what you perceive as your parents' suburban inanities.  I didn't go through this phase (though I did read Hesse's \\"Siddhartha\\")---not because I was so clever, but because I just happened to read other things.  That's why now, at the advanced age of 58, I just read STEPPENWOLF for the first time, and that's probably why it reminded me of literary Manischewitz.<br />Hesse's portrayal of the two sides of one man, a disillusioned intellectual who imagines himself a lone wolf of the steppes amidst the crassness of the bourgeoisie, is carefully executed and probably autobiographical.  It is full of philosophizing, fantasies, and dream-like sequences.  STEPPENWOLF is a freshman literature teacher's dream---there is endless material for tutorial discussions, for essay topics too.  If sensitive people wonder what the position of an intellectual or artist in society could be, Hesse provides several interesting answers.  But the appeal to young people who feel nobody understands them, that they are separate from the rest of the crowd---is undeniable.  \\"...it is hard to find this track of the divine in the midst of this life we lead\\"  Hesse intones, \\" in this besotted humdrum age of spiritual blindness, with its architecture, its business, its politics, its men !  How could I fail to be a lone wolf and an uncouth hermit...?\\"  Haller, Hesse's alter-ego in the novel, painfully learns to accept life's various facets.  By the end he says \\"I knew that all the 100,000 pieces of life's game were in my pocket.\\"  Very satisfying if you are 21 years old, but I found this novel too full of tired philosophy, heavy sentiment in the rain, incessant references to the \\"riddle and hopelessness of life\\", overarching seriousness, and glum deification of \\"high culture\\" with the accompanying scathing contempt for America and jazz so typical of European intellectuals of the time.  If you're young and searching, this could be a five star book.  By the time you are my age, you have either come to terms with much of this or you are in the nuthouse.  By slogging through STEPPENWOLF, you will learn what many readers have found so fascinating, you will admire a beautifully-constructed philosophical text which has a vast number of literary and cultural allusions, but you may find that it is not a novel in the usual sense of the word.  And you may remember Manischewitz.le.    \\"...it is hard to find this track of the divine in the midst of this life we lead\\"  Hesse intones, \\" in this besotted humdrum age of spiritual blindness, with its architecture, its business, its politics, its men !  How could I fail to be a lone wolf and an uncouth hermit...?\\"  Haller, Hesse's alter-ego in the novel, painfully learns to accept life's various facets.  By the end he says \\"I knew that all the 100,000 pieces of life's game were in my pocket.\\"  Very satisfying if you are 21 years old, but I found this novel too full of tired philosophy, heavy sentiment in the rain, incessant references to the \\"riddle and hopelessness of life\\", overarching seriousness, and glum deification of \\"high culture\\" with the accompanying scathing contempt for America and jazz so typical of European intellectuals of the time.  If you're young and searching, this could be a five star book.  By the time you are my age, you have either come to terms with much of this or you are in the nuthouse.  By slogging through STEPPENWOLF, you will learn what many readers have found so fascinating, you will admire a beautifully-constructed philosophical text which has a vast number of literary and cultural allusions, but you may find that it is not a novel in the usual sense of the word.  And you may remember Manischewitz.	2001-03-12
US	52761040	R1OOA88QSNKN2U	0253302803	746685020	An African World: The Basongye Village of Lupupa Ngye	Books	3	4	6	N	N	An Ethnographer's Ethnography	I first heard of Alan Merriam many years ago, as one of the foremost ethnomusicologists in the USA.  Not being very familiar with the field, when I saw his book, AN AFRICAN WORLD, in a bookshop some years ago, I bought it right away, without looking through it.  I've just read it.  I was disappointed to realize that it had nothing to do with music, but that is hardly the fault of the author !<br />This study of a small village in Eastern Kasai in the country now known as Congo, but for many years as Zaire, is written about a sub-division of the people known as Basongye.  Merriam undertook to write it because \\"...music can only be understood when society and culture are understood and thus that understanding can only be achieved along with a general ethnographic competence.\\"  The village of Lupupa Ngye, described in mind-boggling detail here, serves, then, as a typical place in a larger Basongye society, whose music Merriam must have described elsewhere.  I found Merriam's writing very clear and extremely well-organized.  His data seems amazingly complete as well.  There are a few interesting photographs included and the historical introduction is excellent, the most interesting part of the book to me.  However, three factors lead me to say that I think few readers would find this book a pleasurable experience, unless they were students of Central African history or anthropology, in which case AN AFRICAN WORLD would surely be absolutely necessary.  First, Merriam loaded his text with literally hundreds of Kisonge terms (and even gave the plurals in most cases !).  This breaks up the text considerably.  I doubt if many readers, even the most earnest, need to know that \\"fate\\" was called \\"kwelampungulu\\" by the villagers.  Second, Merriam seems to have had a laundry list of a huge number of traits, characteristics, and institutions found among the cultures of mankind.  Could these have been taken from the old HRAF system ?  [Human Relations Area Files]  I found it a little annoying to be told very often that such and such custom or habit is not found among the villagers.  It smacks of Monty Python.  Third, and last, this is an ethnography for the record.  It stands as (I would bet) one of the few ever written about the area, an area that has doubtless gone through, and is still going through, the cruel vicissitudes of civil war and national breakdown.  But the villagers have no voice in the book.  We meet nobody, we hear nobody, we feel nothing.  Merriam connects us to no anthropological theory, he is totally absent from his work---we don't know what he felt about any of it, we don't learn much about how he did the work.  It is a steady march through the List.  Magic, sorcerers, agriculture, kinship, hunting, the political system, oaths and ordeals, marriage, divorce, death, slavery, social groups, funerals......  I missed feeling, I missed compassion, I missed drama.  If you are researching the Congo or Central Africa, you must read this book.  If you are searching for a book that will give you pleasure, look for something else.ittle annoying to be told very often that such and such custom or habit is not found among the villagers.  It smacks of Monty Python.  Third, and last, this is an ethnography for the record.  It stands as (I would bet) one of the few ever written about the area, an area that has doubtless gone through, and is still going through, the cruel vicissitudes of civil war and national breakdown.  But the villagers have no voice in the book.  We meet nobody, we hear nobody, we feel nothing.  Merriam connects us to no anthropological theory, he is totally absent from his work---we don't know what he felt about any of it, we don't learn much about how he did the work.  It is a steady march through the List.  Magic, sorcerers, agriculture, kinship, hunting, the political system, oaths and ordeals, marriage, divorce, death, slavery, social groups, funerals......  I missed feeling, I missed compassion, I missed drama.   If you are researching the Congo or Central Africa, you must read this book.  If you are searching for a book that will give you pleasure, look for something else.	2001-03-06
US	52761040	R3MOT6TNHKWGRZ	0914232630	304345356	Divine Horsemen: The Living Gods of Haiti	Books	3	40	62	N	N	Haitian Religion 101 it's not	Let's suppose you don't know anything about Islam.  Would you turn to a debate between two scholars of the Sharia' to get your basic knowledge ?  Or maybe, if you didn't know anything about Judaism, would you turn to Maimonides' discussion of the impossibility of absolute finality ?  The same question can be asked of Maya Deren's incredible, deep, detailed book on Haitian religion, a religion taken largely from West Africa.  Although Deren, an artist and film-maker, writes passionately and intellectually about her subject, she assumes far too much knowledge on the part of the reader.  I found the book incredibly dense, full of details which I could not possibly remember, yet giving me no quarter, explaining nothing to me in terms that I could come to grips with.  I can be emotional in practice, but in reading a book on a rather new subject for me, I prefer some intellectual explanation, some connection to the web of knowledge all readers of books like this do share. Deren waxes philosophical, lyrical, and psychological in turn.  It is hard to know how to absorb it all.  She describes the symbolic and mythological significance of the many West African deities found in Haiti, trying also to explain how the New World required new meanings in some cases.  Her argument that Africans absorbed some Indian influence seems rather frail.  She also describes the role of the houngan, or priest of Vodun, the importance of drums and drumming, the fact of possession.<br />Look, let's be brief.  If you already know a lot about West African religion or its New World variants, and if you want a detailed analysis in a non-standard anthropological form, then this could be a five star book for you.  Her passion, her scholarship deserve five stars for sure.  The best thing about the book is its insistence that Voudoun or Vodun is a rich, vital religion with ancient roots, so far from the caricature often imposed on &quot;Voodoo&quot; by Western popular culture.  On the other hand, if you want to know more about Haitian society, if you are looking for an anthropological work that will give you some operating knowledge in Haiti or about Haiti, this volume is going to prove far too rich for your blood.  Try some of the other works on Haiti first.you want to know more about Haitian society, if you are looking for an anthropological work that will give you some operating knowledge in Haiti or about Haiti, this volume is going to prove far too rich for your blood.  Try some of the other works on Haiti first.	2001-02-28
US	52761040	R1VEI0600OMCHA	0090979400	790604796	The Portuguese seaborne empire, 1415-1825 (The History of human society)	Books	5	58	59	N	N	Galleons of Information	The band of historians working on the history of Portugal and its worldwide extensions has never been large.  Many of the senior researchers today, especially in the English-speaking world, owe a great debt to one man, Charles Ralph Boxer, virtually the founding father of the field.  This volume is his finest work, known and used by scholars everywhere since its publication in 1969.  It is simply one of the great works of history in our times.  By reading it, you will learn an enormous amount about how a small, unimportant kingdom on the Atlantic Ocean managed to construct a trading and military network that extended from Brazil to Africa to India, China, Japan, Indonesia and all points in between.  Boxer discusses the motivating forces that led the Portuguese to dominate the spice trade.  It is shown that with its small population, Portugal had to rely on slaves or mercenaries.  Often their forces were composed of Africans, their pilots Jews or others, their sailors a mix of Asians and mestios.  He breaks two common myths: 1) that the cross closely followed the traders---it took several decades before even a start was made (by the Jesuits) in conversions; and 2) that the Portuguese, unlike other European colonial powers, were color blind.  Several Brazilian socio-historians have written to emphasize this, but Boxer shows that it was untrue.  After a chapter on sugar and slavery in Brazil, the rest of the book deals with the decline of Portugal's empire in Asia over the centuries from 1600 to 1800, when only a few tiny, misgoverned enclaves were left.  The more efficient Dutch, among whom ability outweighed family background, challenged and defeated the Portuguese everywhere; Portugal itself stagnated and turned inwards.  Brazil, however, grew and prospered, eventually outshining the mother country and providing a refuge for the royal family during Napoleonic times (it wasn't until 1821 that the Portuguese royal family returned to Lisbon---perhaps the only instance of a European country being ruled from America).<br />With the vast amount of social and economic information on a wide variety of subjects---the use of the Portuguese language, the rise of Oman along the African coast, Pombal's dictatorship in Portugal, intermarriage and color prejudice in the widely scattered empire, the quality of Portuguese seamen--- with its eminently well-written, clear prose, and its sweep of vision, THE PORTUGUESE SEABORNE EMPIRE deserves to be on the shelf of every person interested in history.  If you are interested in Portugal or its offshoots in Brazil, Angola, Mozambique, Goa, Malacca and Macau, this book is a must.  I am stunned to see that I am the first to review it for Amazon.ce of a European country being ruled from America).   <br />With the vast amount of social and economic information on a wide variety of subjects---the use of the Portuguese language, the rise of Oman along the African coast, Pombal's dictatorship in Portugal, intermarriage and color prejudice in the widely scattered empire, the quality of Portuguese seamen--- with its eminently well-written, clear prose, and its sweep of vision, THE PORTUGUESE SEABORNE EMPIRE deserves to be on the shelf of every person interested in history.  If you are interested in Portugal or its offshoots in Brazil, Angola, Mozambique, Goa, Malacca and Macau, this book is a must.  I am stunned to see that I am the first to review it for Amazon.	2001-02-23
US	52761040	RKQBM3JOJGJBO	0679724613	669412658	Dictionary of the Khazars: A Lexicon Novel in 100,000 Words (Male Edition)	Books	4	24	28	N	N	In the chameleon dreams of deepest bicycles, a tulip	Are you ready for this ?  Do you want a novel with a plot, tangible characters, and the usual narrative style ?  OK, forget this book.  You are flying over an unknown land, maybe New Guinea, below all is steep mountain and impenetrable jungle.  It's a land sparsely inhabited by utterly different people.  You fly through some clouds, get lost.  Now how will you navigate ?  It's all so beautiful, but where are you going?  You look down and in the immortal words of Bob Dylan, \\"you know something's happenin', but you don't know what it is..\\"  Yes, you are definitely reading DICTIONARY OF THE KHAZARS, a beautiful, strange book, redolant with poetry, myth, fantasy, legend, a murder case, dreams, scraps of history, and a political allegory about former Yugoslavia.  Pavic has a 17th century fresco painter who is also the Devil say, \\"Why shouldn't someone create a dictionary of words that make up one book and let the reader himself assemble the words into a whole ?\\"  Pavic has come close to that.  The words dazzle.  In what other book can you find an egg that holds one day of life, a Thursday or Friday ?  Where else do you read about a man with ears so pointed that he could slice a piece of bread with them, about parrot poems, eleven-fingered lute players, or inheritance according to the color of one's beard ?  When I read that \\"it was so quiet in the inn that the hair of the dreamer could be heard splitting somewhere in the dark\\" I knew that I could not give this novel less than four stars.<br />The Khazars were a Turkic people living on the Ukrainian steppes and between the Black and Caspian Seas.  They disappeared close to a thousand years ago, but not before their khan converted to Judaism, leading Arthur Koestler to write \\"The Thirteenth Tribe\\", in which he claimed Russian and East European Jews were all descendants of the Khazars.  The conversion was effected by means of a debate between three scholars invited by the khan, a Christian, a Muslim, and a Jew.  With this nugget of history, Pavic creates a fantasy, divided into three books, Christian, Muslim, and Jewish, in which characters, institutions, books, and events are treated as in some fabulous encyclopedia.  Slowly, with some concentration, being constantly diverted by dreams, weird tales, and witty asides, you see the connections appearing.  The number three (as in the 3 religions) is repeated three times---three characters who were the original debaters, three characters who converged around a battle and manuscript in 1689, and again in Istanbul in 1982.  You don't have to read this all in order---you can start anywhere---but my advice definitely is to finish.<br />Surrealistic in the extreme, DICTIONARY OF THE KHAZARS is like a Dali painting or maybe a Fellini movie.  If you like those, you will find the novel attractive.  It would help to know something about Yugoslavia between 1945 and 1991.  Though this political factor is there, mainly alluding, in ironic observations, to the situation of the Serbs, it is far from omnipresent.  This is a first novel about life by a highly original poet.  It may be confusing sometimes, but it is never dull.  A moth may see a white wall as the whole sky.  Or maybe not.  But you can certainly find the whole human condition in this novel.  Try it, you may be glad you did.ugget of history, Pavic creates a fantasy, divided into three books, Christian, Muslim, and Jewish, in which characters, institutions, books, and events are treated as in some fabulous encyclopedia.  Slowly, with some concentration, being constantly diverted by dreams, weird tales, and witty asides, you see the connections appearing.  The number three (as in the 3 religions) is repeated three times---three characters who were the original debaters, three characters who converged around a battle and manuscript in 1689, and again in Istanbul in 1982.  You don't have to read this all in order---you can start anywhere---but my advice definitely is to finish.<br />Surrealistic in the extreme, DICTIONARY OF THE KHAZARS is like a Dali painting or maybe a Fellini movie.  If you like those, you will find the novel attractive.  It would help to know something about Yugoslavia between 1945 and 1991.  Though this political factor is there, mainly alluding, in ironic observations, to the situation of the Serbs, it is far from omnipresent.  This is a first novel about life by a highly original poet.  It may be confusing sometimes, but it is never dull.  A moth may see a white wall as the whole sky.  Or maybe not.  But you can certainly find the whole human condition in this novel.  Try it, you may be glad you did.	2001-02-22
US	52761040	R2EGOLWG6I5C8T	0881339652	31830744	Maps & Dreams: Indians and the British Columbia Frontier	Books	5	19	20	N	N	When Dreams Collide	The Big Boys planned to build a pipeline from Alaska down to the US Midwest, bringing energy from source to consumer.  The line had to cross some hundreds of miles of British Columbia, over land that had once belonged exclusively to Indians, but which had already been invaded by trappers, sport hunters, ranchers, oil and gas explorers, loggers, drillers, and the beginnings of suburbia.  By some miracle, somebody thought that it might be a good idea to see what the Indians thought about this.  It seems they had never been consulted up to then.  Treaties had been made, then subverted---the old North American pattern.  In general, nobody had paid much attention to the Indians of northeastern British Columbia.  It was believed that their way of life was kaput, that they were all alcoholics living on welfare, and that they hadn't kept their traditions.  It seems they had been living for centuries in an \\"energy corridor\\" without a viable way of life.  But now they were seriously in the way.  Enter Hugh Brody, a British anthropologist.<br />In MAPS AND DREAMS, Brody accomplishes the near impossible.  He writes a marvelously sensitive, interesting report, incorporating such often-boring details as hunting and land use maps, and accounts of meetings.  Not only does he show that the culture of the Athapaskan Indians was alive in 1979, he allows them to speak, describes the land use situation from their point of view, and connects their economy with their culture and daily lives.  His book is at once a report, an answer to those who had written off the Indians, and a readable work of anthropology.  White man's dreams of ever bigger projects, ever more exploitation of the land, he says so exactly, \\"are the most established carcinoma of the North American imagination\\".  They are ever poised to crush the Indian dreams.  The Indian dreams, of how to find game, how to find their way to Heaven, stand in the way of the white man's maps---the maps that show where to put the pipeline, where to drill, where to stake out more claims.  Both the Indian maps on paper, which showed how they used the land and their traditional dream maps, showing the way to the Beyond, stood in the way of the white man's dreams.  A few thousand souls against the tide of Western visions of \\"progress\\".  We don't find out what happened, but it wasn't looking hopeful.  Different maps, different dreams.  For good anthropology, for deeper understanding of the problems of the Far North, for just a fascinating book, you can do a lot worse than read MAPS AND DREAMS.where to drill, where to stake out more claims.    Both the Indian maps on paper, which showed how they used the land and their traditional dream maps, showing the way to the Beyond, stood in the way of the white man's dreams.  A few thousand souls against the tide of Western visions of \\"progress\\".   We don't find out what happened, but it wasn't looking hopeful.   Different maps, different dreams.  For good anthropology, for deeper understanding of the problems of the Far North, for just a fascinating book, you can do a lot worse than read MAPS AND DREAMS.	2001-02-08
US	52761040	R26Q0TB6SSIVM3	0226476073	337196121	Tahitians: Mind and Experience in the Society Islands	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Sex, Self and Society in the South Seas	World War II had relatively little influence on the culture of Tahiti and the surrounding Society Islands of the South Pacific, unlike its effect on much of  Melanesia and Micronesia, further west and north.  Rather, major changes began in the early 1960s, when France decided to conduct nuclear tests in the area.  This decision, with massive transfers of money, technology, and personnel, had \\"an explosive effect\\" on Tahitian culture.  Levy conducted the research for this book just as the new period was opening, from 1961 to 1964.  Thus, we can probably say that no matter how good it is, TAHITIANS is now a historical document.  Nevertheless it is an excellent psycho-portrait of a people at a certain point in history, a portrait that utilizes earlier histories and descriptions from the moment of European contact in 1767.<br />TAHITIANS is a work of psychological anthropology, one of the best I have ever seen.  It is a work about Tahitian culture and personality formation that delves into a myriad aspects of life from childbirth, the widespread adoption common in all Polynesian societies, homosexuality, and leadership qualities to religion, moral behavior, and dreams.  Language plays a big part in the description---over 200 Tahitian words are used, sometimes frequently, in order to describe relationships and feelings more exactly.  Many fascinating insights on Tahitian culture in general can be gleaned from his numerous passages on language.  Levy's writing is clear and simple throughout, though a few passages were a little too `field-specific' to psychology for a layman like myself.  At over five hundred pages, the book is nothing if not comprehensive, but Levy did sacrifice analysis for the sake of presenting all his data.  The analysis appears throughout, but sometimes does not have a clear direction.  The author maintains a modest tone, often retiring from a discussion inconclusively.  For example, he tackles older anthropological concerns about the difference between the `content' and `process' of thought which led previous generations of scholars to write of the \\"primitive mind\\".  While his answers are good, and strictly in line with what he found in his own work, they do not answer those concerns.  [Perhaps impossible, perhaps conducive to racist thinking in a racism-plagued world.]  Another section on `guilt cultures' vs. `shame cultures' is also rather inconclusive.  It might have been more useful to sidestep these old, oft-debated issues [now half a century or more out of date] to concentrate on his subjects, the villagers of Huahine island and the urban dwellers in a section of Papeete, the formerly sleepy capital of Tahiti.  The lack of a strong summary is the weakest point about TAHITIANS; such an amazingly vivid description just fizzles out.<br />I have reviewed another book in this field for amazon.com---\\"All the Mothers are One\\" by Stanley Kurtz about India.  Kurtz' book is entirely based on analysis of other writers' theories and building some new ones.  He did no field work himself.  Levy's book, written entirely on extensive field work and interviews, is just the opposite, yet both are extremely useful works for students wishing to delve further into psychological studies of other cultures. Teachers looking for good books to use in courses touching on psychological anthropology or Pacific Studies have come to the right place.  TAHITIANS is an overlooked classic that deserves to be read by a much wider audience than has been the case.ween the `content' and `process' of thought which led previous generations of scholars to write of the \\"primitive mind\\".  While his answers are good, and strictly in line with what he found in his own work, they do not answer those concerns.  [Perhaps impossible, perhaps conducive to racist thinking in a racism-plagued world.]  Another section on `guilt cultures' vs. `shame cultures' is also rather inconclusive.  It might have been more useful to sidestep these old, oft-debated issues [now half a century or more out of date] to concentrate on his subjects, the villagers of Huahine island and the urban dwellers in a section of Papeete, the formerly sleepy capital of Tahiti.  The lack of a strong summary is the weakest point about TAHITIANS; such an amazingly vivid description just fizzles out.<br />I have reviewed another book in this field for amazon.com---\\"All the Mothers are One\\" by Stanley Kurtz about India.  Kurtz' book is entirely based on analysis of other writers' theories and building some new ones.  He did no field work himself.  Levy's book, written entirely on extensive field work and interviews, is just the opposite, yet both are extremely useful works for students wishing to delve further into psychological studies of other cultures. Teachers looking for good books to use in courses touching on psychological anthropology or Pacific Studies have come to the right place.  TAHITIANS is an overlooked classic that deserves to be read by a much wider audience than has been the case.	2001-01-30
US	52761040	R2MQ7JV286ORWF	0671880187	536943079	Kitchen	Books	2	18	35	N	N	Banana's work may a-peel.... to some in the bunch	I am happiest whenever I'm standing in front of a lot of bookshelves.  On a gray winter afternoon, when the light seeps in from the frozen gray clouds and wet streets outside, I like to wonder what I will read next.  Last time, I looked up at a shelf of Japanese literature and (boinggg!) Banana Yoshimoto's work fell down at my feet.  I picked it up and realized that I had never read any of her books yet.  The carpet was a kind of yucky green.  My wife called from the kitchen to say that she was making curry lamb and okra with rice.  I had opened KITCHEN at the same time.  Unbelievable.<br />  In the blue light of early morning, a thin orange edge to the clouds streaming off over the Atlantic Ocean, a wedge of geese flew by.  I read this youthful tale of sadness and loss, loneliness and final reunion.  I bit into some toast (crunch) with unsalted butter on it, plus some Scottish orange marmalade.  I read more.  In the end, I felt that I had read an excellent novel as written by a high school student.  Gosh.  But when the chips were down, and what I wanted was more than to curl up on the sofa (green velvet with Indian brocade cushions) with an entertaining novel, KITCHEN just didn't have what it took.  \\"Cutesy\\"  \\"Yuppie-esque\\" or \\"excruciatingly earnest\\" are adjectives that could apply.  \\"You have to appreciate novels for what they are, Bob.\\" I kept telling myself.  But this one wasn't much.  I remembered how I loved reading Balzac, Kawabata, Turgenev, Soseki, Mishima, Machado de Assis and Bulgakov.  Their ghosts waved to me in the early morning light.  But I just could not put KITCHEN alongside their works.  Sorry, folks.  I know most of you thought it was great, but I didn't.  It is clear.  It is youthful.  It touches on human emotions.  But not in a deep way.  That's why.  The end.	2001-01-30
US	52761040	RW7GIEA6E2SPI	0520047753	892683990	Counselor Ayres' Memorial	Books	3	1	1	N	N	If Merchant and Ivory could &quot;go Brazilian&quot;.........	Counselor Ayres, the character, was first found in Machado de Assis' previous novel, &quot;Esau and Jacob&quot; just as Quincas Borba appeared in &quot;Epitaph of a Small Winner&quot; before becoming the main character in another novel.  The present volume is rather slow, perhaps &quot;slight&quot; is a fair word, and may leave action-oriented modern readers a little bored.  The author shuns his usual catchy chapter titles in COUNSELOR AYRES' MEMORIAL, but he still uses his usual format of dividing the text into short sections because the novel is written in the form of a diary.  While Machado de Assis shows in his usual, subtle way, that love is the glue that can hold both individuals and society together, the progress of the novel is languid and the text lacks entirely the wit and irony of his earlier works.  Yet I found beauty in the book and sensed the nostalgia for a slower time.<br />  We read a gentle story of an older diplomat (retired) watching the relationships develop and change among four or five other people in the Rio de Janeiro upper class of 1888-89.  An attractive widow dedicated to her dead husband whom she had married against the wishes of her family; the godson of a doting old couple, otherwise childless, who returns to Rio after many years in Europe; the old couple themselves who love both widow and godson equally as the children they never had; a sister, an uncle, a malicious gossip---these are the characters we find moving in slow motion through the pages of a diary that reveals, but only slightly, the state of society in Brazil at the time.  Slavery was abolished, the Empire had just come to an end, but Machado de Assis wrote more of playing cards, oil painting, piano recitals, and attendance at very European tea parties.  It is a novel of a class that ignored the times, a class entirely wrapped up in its own interrelationships.<br />  If you like the films of Merchant and Ivory or perhaps of Indian director Satyajit Ray, if you have a taste for novels that unfold slowly, at their own pace, you may like COUNSELOR AYRES' MEMORIAL because great events and intricate plots are not everything. Personally, I liked this novel, but as I found myself getting a little impatient at times, (and I like those Merchant and Ivory films) I wonder if it would appeal to many in our more-rushed age, hence the three stars.  If Jorge Amado's wonderfully-descriptive novels of 20th century Brazil recall the samba and sexual vitality, Afro-Brazilian religion, color, and violence, this novel is more evocative of the piano adagios heard from afar on long-forgotten, hot January afternoons in bougainvillea-filled gardens of the vanished Brazilian aristocracy, and of people too &quot;cultivated&quot; to ever reveal their feelings in public.ste for novels that unfold slowly, at their own pace, you may like COUNSELOR AYRES' MEMORIAL because great events and intricate plots are not everything. Personally, I liked this novel, but as I found myself getting a little impatient at times, (and I like those Merchant and Ivory films) I wonder if it would appeal to many in our more-rushed age, hence the three stars.  If Jorge Amado's wonderfully-descriptive novels of 20th century Brazil recall the samba and sexual vitality, Afro-Brazilian religion, color, and violence, this novel is more evocative of the piano adagios heard from afar on long-forgotten, hot January afternoons in bougainvillea-filled gardens of the vanished Brazilian aristocracy, and of people too &quot;cultivated&quot; to ever reveal their feelings in public.	2001-01-20
US	52761040	R2XTXHK8RZ0MZ6	0385005237	529120983	John Frum He Come: A Polemical Work About a Black Tragedy	Books	3	15	15	N	N	Ed Rice He Nice....but	The word \\"idiosyncratic\\" was invented for books like this one. It is supposed to be about a particular cargo cult or new religion of the southwest Pacific, one of many that sprang up in response to the painful contact with Europeans from mid-19th century on.  Let me say right off, if you are a student or teacher of anthropology and you need a serious book for your term paper or for preparing a class, you would be far better off looking at Peter Lawrence's \\"Road Belong Cargo\\", Peter Worsley's \\"The Trumpet Shall Sound\\" or Burridge's \\"Mambu\\".  There might be some newer works to choose as well.  The reason for doing so is that you will get a better grasp of the historical and cultural roots of cargo movements and the political tremors they caused for various administrations.  The authors link these movements to larger tendencies in human history in a clearer way.<br />Edward Rice has a readable, but sometimes very annoying style.  I instinctively dislike books in which the author tosses off terms like \\"frogs\\", \\"Frenchies\\", \\"Russkies\\", \\"krauts\\", \\"Japs\\", \\"sambo\\", \\"Kanaka\\", and \\"various types of Chows\\" !!  And that might not be the complete list.  OK, he has an ironic tone throughout, he professes sympathy with colonized peoples, and he describes his own book as a polemic, but I don't care, it smacks of those insensitive people who say \\"Some of my best friends are Jewish.\\" and then tell a rotten joke about money-grubbing Jews.  The author states that his work is neither anthropological or sociological, trying to distance himself from \\"the dreaded academic\\", but he has to turn to them willy-nilly, because he's discussing the same things and he hasn't got the background to stand on his own.  We get a potted history of white contacts in the Western Pacific, of colonial rule and its missionary corollary, (with excerpts from missionary memoirs) and a short picture of life in the New Hebrides in the early 1970s (the place became independent Vanuatu in 1980).<br />However, don't dismiss JOHN FRUM HE COME totally.  What I liked about this book is that the author kept an open mind towards the cargo religion.  He did not ridicule it or search for inconsistencies or blow it off as `meaningless'.  He genuinely tried to show the Cargo religion of Tanna island from the believers' point of view, even if that might not be possible for a foreigner.  He understood that all religions begin as mixtures of ideas from different times and places and that to an outsider, they may seem incongruous.  New religions in the process of forming are still religions for all of that, to be taken seriously.  Rice saw the myth and poetry, acknowledged the deeply-felt belief, and understood the soil of despair and oppression from which the John Frum religion arose.  Through this effort, he certainly raised himself in my eyes (for whatever that's worth).  You might try reading the last 13 pages first; you will better swallow the sometimes-puerile style of the rest of the book.n't dismiss JOHN FRUM HE COME totally.   What I liked about this book is that the author kept an open mind towards the cargo religion.  He did not ridicule it or search for inconsistencies or blow it off as `meaningless'.  He genuinely tried to show the Cargo religion of Tanna island from the believers' point of view, even if that might not be possible for a foreigner.  He understood that all religions begin as mixtures of ideas from different times and places and that to an outsider, they may seem incongruous.  New religions in the process of forming are still religions for all of that, to be taken seriously.  Rice saw the myth and poetry, acknowledged the deeply-felt belief, and understood the soil of despair and oppression from which the John Frum religion arose.  Through this effort, he certainly raised himself in my eyes (for whatever that's worth).  You might try reading the last 13 pages first; you will better swallow the sometimes-puerile style of the rest of the book.	2001-01-13
US	52761040	R2MNU6FXO74LX8	0195108116	744641459	Esau and Jacob (Library of Latin America)	Books	3	10	15	N	N	&quot;Selling my birthright for a mess of pottage&quot;	In the Book of Genesis, Isaac and Rebekah have two sons, one hairy and red, the other smooth.  These are Esau and Jacob, who struggled with each other even in the womb of their mother.  Genesis Chapter 25, verse 23, \\"And the Lord said unto her, Two nations are in thy womb and two manner of people shall be separated from thy bowels; and the one people shall be stronger than the other people; and the elder shall serve the younger.\\"  Later, Esau, the hunter sells his birthright to Jacob, the farmer for a simple meal.<br />I don't know if my tribal history of well over 3,000 years ago is an apt resource for creating allegories regarding 19th century Brazil, but Machado de Assis gave it a shot anyhow.  The entire novel is a rather tedious allegory of Brazilian society at the time.  In my opinion, it would have made an excellent short story while a 287 page novel is far too long.  The two boys born in 1871 to a wealthy Rio de Janeiro family are alike as two peas in a pod, though their temperaments differ.  Their mother, named Natividade ( in case you don't \\"get it\\"), represents Brazil, the loving figure who nurtures her twin sons, two contradictory spirits who represent conservative and liberal forces in society.  These boys conflict throughout the novel, loving the same frail girl (the future ? the present ?) who never consumates marriage with either.  Ah, poor Brazil !  What could the future hold ?  The author avoids the question as to which brother is the elder and which the younger by making them identical twins.  The novel's title alludes to the Bible story, but the narrative bears only some relation to it.  Are petty political chicanery, romantic quarrels, suspicious behavior, and useless arguments based on personal pride or ambition, a mess of pottage ? In fairness, it is a clever idea, but I feel it was over-ambitious and ultimately only partially successful.  If you take the novel as a simple story about late 19th century Brazil, it is without much life---a girl who can't choose between two jealous and quarreling brothers, some other plot features found in the author's other works.  The style of the novel is the same in the two better known books \\"Epitaph of a Small Winner\\" and \\"Dom Casmurro\\", with many small chapters with titles that pilot the narrative.  There is very little description and much lyrical philosophy, attempted irony and wit.  These do not sparkle as in the above mentioned novels.  ESAU AND JACOB is not up to the standard of the other two, and will attract only the most dedicated readers; perhaps those who are studying Latin American, Nineteenth Century, or Brazilian Literature.  I cannot imagine any average reader undertaking this for pure pleasure in the 21st century, because both style and topic are too far from modern sensibilities.  You also need to have a fairly comprehensive understanding of Brazilian society in the last quarter of the 19th century.  My final word---J.M. Machado de Assis wrote many better works.  Try them.who can't choose between two jealous and quarreling brothers, some other plot features found in the author's other works.  The style of the novel is the same in the two better known books \\"Epitaph of a Small Winner\\" and \\"Dom Casmurro\\", with many small chapters with titles that pilot the narrative.  There is very little description and much lyrical philosophy, attempted irony and wit.  These do not sparkle as in the above mentioned novels.   ESAU AND JACOB is not up to the standard of the other two, and will attract only the most dedicated readers; perhaps those who are studying Latin American, Nineteenth Century, or Brazilian Literature.  I cannot imagine any average reader undertaking this for pure pleasure in the 21st century, because both style and topic are too far from modern sensibilities.  You also need to have a fairly comprehensive understanding of Brazilian society in the last quarter of the 19th century.  My final word---J.M. Machado de Assis wrote many better works.  Try them.	2001-01-06
US	52761040	RTULDFRN248OK	0374521921	505434626	Epitaph of a Small Winner: A Novel	Books	5	22	25	N	N	&quot;Lifelong Wastrel Kicks a Goal at Last&quot;	Brazil has produced a number of wonderful novels.  I can name \\"Rebellion in the Backlands\\" by Euclides da Cunha, \\"The Devil to Pay in the Backlands\\" by Joo Guimaraes Rosa, \\"The Tent of Miracles\\" and \\"Gabriela; Clove and Cinnamon\\" by Jorge Amado, and \\"The Three Marias\\" by Rachel de Queiroz, but these are only a few.  You have to add to this list at least a couple novels by J. M. Machado de Assis, Brazil's greatest writer of the 19th century, (he died in 1908) and one of the greatest writing anywhere at that time.  EPITAPH OF A SMALL WINNER would be on that list for sure.  I can hear you say, \\"Can you really compare this fellow to writers like Dostoevsky,  Tolstoy, Balzac, Zola, Melville, Austen, or Eliot ?\\"  My answer would be \\"yes\\" and \\"no\\".  That's because I like definite answers.  Sorry, just kidding.  I would say \\"no\\" because Machado de Assis doesn't write like any of the others.  His style is unique and his choice of perspective also.  He is the opposite of a realist.  He never hits you over the head with any serious descriptive narrative.  His characters speak throughout.  So, how could you compare him effectively with the others ?  But, I would say \\"yes\\" because he is a master of subtle story telling, of wit, satire, and irony.  This novel, like his others, does not resemble any other work.  He is certainly among the greats.<br />  Braz Cubas, the narrator of the novel, is already dead when we meet him.  So he has plenty of time to tell about his life.  As he notes, \\"death does not age one\\";  he can afford to ramble a bit.  What we receive, through his life story, is a satirized view of the indolence and lack of intellectual rigor of the Brazilian upper class of the time.  We read the life of a man who did nothing at all in 64 years.  Or almost nothing.  He didn't study, he didn't work, he didn't marry, and he didn't have any direction.  He became a parliamentary deputy through connections and did absolutely nothing while there. He enjoyed the physical pleasures of life, he envied others, he had ambitions that he did next to nothing to fulfill.  He failed at nearly everything, then at last he croaked. The reason why he feels (from beyond the grave) that he wasn't such a loser after all is the author's final bit of irony. Machado de Assis employs his usual style---160 short chapters in 223 pages---with the title of each chapter used to spice up the progress of the novel, which in turn is full of irony, with, whimsy, and very clever writing, full of ingenious metaphors.  You cannot say that this is a \\"page turner\\" in any conventional sense.  It is rather philosophical, but as the author says, \\"a philosophy wanting in uniformity, now austere, now playful....\\"  To quote from chapter 124, which is all of 9 lines long---\\"To hop from a character study to an epitaph may be realistic and even commonplace, but the reader probably would not have taken refuge in this book if he had not wished to escape the realistic and the commonplace.\\"  That is my recommendation to you.  Escape both the realistic and the commonplace and read this book.  You won't regret it.leasures of life, he envied others, he had ambitions that he did next to nothing to fulfill.  He failed at nearly everything, then at last he croaked. The reason why he feels (from beyond the grave) that he wasn't such a loser after all is the author's final bit of irony. Machado de Assis employs his usual style---160 short chapters in 223 pages---with the title of each chapter used to spice up the progress of the novel, which in turn is full of irony, with, whimsy, and very clever writing, full of ingenious metaphors.  You cannot say that this is a \\"page turner\\" in any conventional sense.  It is rather philosophical, but as the author says, \\"a philosophy wanting in uniformity, now austere, now playful....\\"  To quote from chapter 124, which is all of 9 lines long---\\"To hop from a character study to an epitaph may be realistic and even commonplace, but the reader probably would not have taken refuge in this book if he had not wished to escape the realistic and the commonplace.\\"  That is my recommendation to you.  Escape both the realistic and the commonplace and read this book.  You won't regret it.	2000-12-30
US	52761040	R18LBYF27ZLRGV	0879510846	686647964	Triumph of the Nomads: A History of Aboriginal Australia	Books	5	41	42	N	N	They went about as far as they could go	Almost any other book on Australia's Aborigines that you can find will be an anthropological description of Aboriginal life as seen in its declining years or modern Aboriginal problems in the 20th century.  Some may record the awful history of injustice, the fatal impact of alcohol and white police---maybe even the deliberate policy of breaking up cultures and families that existed until recent times.  There are a lot of books out there and I certainly am not familiar with all of them. Geoffrey Blainey wrote this highly original book back in 1975.  I first read it a couple of years later and have kept it in mind all these years as a book that looked at the whole picture of Aborigines and their life in Australia in an entirely different way.  I am basing this review on the original edition.  He begins by pointing out that Australia was the only continent to be discovered by sea---and not by Europeans, but by pre-neolithic, island-hopping peoples of the distant past.  When in later ages, much of the low-lying area north of present-day Australia was flooded by rising seas, the continent was isolated for millennia.  Blainey tells how the Aborigines \\"terraformed\\" Australia by fire, how they learned to exploit every plant, insect, animal, and water source, how they coped with the volcanic eruptions of five to eight thousand years ago, how they developed the technology they needed, using all the materials available.  Without any domesticable animals except dogs, which had come with them, and without any metals, they managed to maintain a stable lifestyle for thousands of years.  Neither were they totally ignorant of the outside world, as northern Aborigines had contacts with Indonesian sailors, traders, and slave-catchers long before Captain Cook \\"discovered\\" Australia.  Some of the materials bartered found their way far inland.<br />Though infant mortality and incidence of violent death in war and quarrels was higher than in Europe, in the year 1800 it was probably true that the average Aborigine had as good a standard of living as the average European---or better.  They may not have had houses, but they felt no need for them in most parts of the country.  They were nomads who didn't have sheep or cattle, but who wandered their beloved country in conjunction with natural seasons of plenty.  Their diet was better than that enjoyed by many European peasants or factory workers, they had more leisure time, working fewer hours to get what they needed to live (and did not rely on child labor) and a richer cultural life in which all participated.  The way in which the Aborigines conquered their environment and managed to wrest from it such a standard of living is indeed nothing less than a triumph.  If you tend to think of Aborigines in terms of losers in the battle for survival, read this book.  If all you know about Aboriginal triumph is Cathy Freeman winning that gold medal at the Sydney Olympics, read this well-written, interesting volume to know she came from a tremendously long line of tough, successful people.that the average Aborigine had as good a standard of living as the average European---or better.  They may not have had houses, but they felt no need for them in most parts of the country.  They were nomads who didn't have sheep or cattle, but who wandered their beloved country in conjunction with natural seasons of plenty.  Their diet was better than that enjoyed by many European peasants or factory workers, they had more leisure time, working fewer hours to get what they needed to live (and did not rely on child labor) and a richer cultural life in which all participated.  The way in which the Aborigines conquered their environment and managed to wrest from it such a standard of living is indeed nothing less than a triumph.  If you tend to think of Aborigines in terms of losers in the battle for survival, read this book.  If all you know about Aboriginal triumph is Cathy Freeman winning that gold medal at the Sydney Olympics, read this well-written, interesting volume to know she came from a tremendously long line of tough, successful people.	2000-12-22
US	52761040	R4VJFK2BT8STM	0195103092	48141187	Dom Casmurro (Library of Latin America)	Books	5	51	54	N	N	Jealousy or &quot;just Bento out of shape&quot;	European students of literature usually concentrate on writers from their own continent, with occasional nods across the Atlantic to North America.  Americans have a somewhat more respectful attitude to Europe, but that's all.  Neither take the rest of the world all that seriously and that's a big mistake.  Among the national literatures most consistently ignored, none has more to offer than Brazil's.  Four writers stand out to my mind----J.M. Machado de Assis, Jorge Amado, Joo Guimaraes Rosa, and Euclides da Cunha---but there are many others.  Of these four writers, three have written great books that reveal aspects of Brazilian history, society and culture in rich detail.  The fourth, Machado de Assis, (1839-1908) the writer under review here, is much more a universal author.  You will not learn very much about 19th century Brazil from his works.  Of course, a little bit of knowledge will stick to your brain---slaves, Emperor, eyes on European trends, tropical climate---but it's amazing how little atmosphere or description there is.  Machado de Assis never wanted to be a realist;  he is very far from writers like Balzac or Zola.<br />  DOM CASMURRO is divided into 148 chapters.  Obviously in a book of 277 pages, each chapter cannot be very long.  Machado de Assis uses his chapter titles as part of his work, sources of humor, direction, and irony.  The novel is arranged as a memoir written by an embittered man in his sixties about the period of his life from roughly ages 15 to 30.  When you begin reading, you think that the theme is \\"coming of age in Brazil\\" as the author describes his early romantic attachment to the girl next door and his struggle to avoid the seminary and a priestly future.  His family members emerge as complex, interesting and somewhat amusing characters.  Machado de Assis is strong on irony, whimsy, and a kind of self-deprecating humor.  He also likes creating or using aphorisms and epigrams, of which the novel is full.  Slowly he weaves an amazing, complicated story of jealousy and bitterness.  Though initially it seemed clear to me that Bento, the main character, was justified in his jealousy of his best friend, the author never takes sides.  He allows Bento to write that his wife had betrayed him, but Capit&uacute;, the wife, never admits it.  On reviewing all the evidence, I have to admit that everything is seen only from Bento's point of view.  According to your nature, you will decide yourself on finishing this subtle and well-written classic that deserves a place alongside the best that Europe and America have to offer.amazing, complicated story of jealousy and bitterness.  Though initially it seemed clear to me that Bento, the main character, was justified in his jealousy of his best friend, the author never takes sides.  He allows Bento to write that his wife had betrayed him, but Capit, the wife, never admits it.  On reviewing all the evidence, I have to admit that everything is seen only from Bento's point of view.  According to your nature, you will decide yourself on finishing this subtle and well-written classic that deserves a place alongside the best that Europe and America have to offer.	2000-12-22
US	52761040	R38SLIJ55JUEPB	1561310077	240311471	The General of the Dead Army	Books	4	25	27	N	N	&quot;Que vivan los muertos ! &quot;	An Italian general is sent to Albania in the early 1960s to locate and disinter the bones of the thousands of his countrymen who died there during World War II.  He and his partner, a sinister priest who is also an Italian Army colonel, run into a rather atypically unorganized German team doing the same.  This miserable task takes a couple years.  Over the course of the tale, we realize that the general is totally unpenitent and still rather hostile to those who [fighting off invasion and occupation] put his countrymen six feet under.  Gradually his insensitivity is revealed as moral corruption. Neither priest nor general have clean hands.  In this way, Kadare linked fascism in the 1930s and '40s to bourgeois democracy in the 1960s.  While there is some truth to this, I fear that it was necessary to underline such continuity for Kadare's personal safety.<br />As far as I know, this is Kadare's first major novel.  It may not be as good as some of those which came later, but it is still a masterpiece of atmosphere and ideas.  What is most amazing is how he twisted and blended fact and fiction to do a literary \\"slalom\\"---winding his way down the slippery slopes of political correctness in Hoxha's Albania in the 1960s.  While being politically incorrect in modern Western societies can lead to criticism or declines in readership, it had rather more fatal consequences in the Albania of that era.  So, if a little social criticism is visible now and then, it is definitely balanced by doses of the official line.  (The thousands of concrete pillboxes that dot the countryside are \\"cold\\", \\"enigmatic\\" or \\"like Egyptian sculptures\\", but not wasteful or reminiscent of totalitarian paranoia.)  At no point, though, does the novel read like the stodgy, boring tracts of so many Soviet authors, whose work has rightfully sunk into obscurity since 1991.  On the contrary, Kadare choses to tell his well-paced story only in autumn and early winter, when rain pours down non-stop and gloom covers the Albanian mountains like the clouds and fog.  The stories of various `disinterees' are told.  Wartime Albania's desperate, confused chaos is revealed.  Square-jawed, righteous partisans are nowhere to be seen.  Some of the dialogue uttered by the Italians seems ripped from Communist tracts rather than overheard on the streets of Rome, but that would be the severest criticism I can offer.  In a country where having an \\"unsanctioned\\" foreign language dictionary could lead to a ten year prison sentence, any foreign dialogue at all had to be risky.  If you have ever read any Kadare, you will certainly enjoy this novel.  If not, it's a good place to start.  Albania may be small, but it is loaded with history and atmosphere.  You don't have to be Albanian to enjoy Kadare's books.covers the Albanian mountains like the clouds and fog.  The stories of various `disinterees' are told.  Wartime Albania's desperate, confused chaos is revealed.  Square-jawed, righteous partisans are nowhere to be seen.  Some of the dialogue uttered by the Italians seems ripped from Communist tracts rather than overheard on the streets of Rome, but that would be the severest criticism I can offer.  In a country where having an \\"unsanctioned\\" foreign language dictionary could lead to a ten year prison sentence, any foreign dialogue at all had to be risky.  If you have ever read any Kadare, you will certainly enjoy this novel.  If not, it's a good place to start.  Albania may be small, but it is loaded with history and atmosphere.  You don't have to be Albanian to enjoy Kadare's books.	2000-12-09
US	52761040	RJ1SLM7V311LH	0140168796	33236444	The Ottomans: Dissolving Images	Books	4	33	35	N	N	Beautiful trees, but not the forest	Andrew Wheatcroft opens his book by saying that he does not wish to write a full-blown history of the Ottoman Empire, as these already exist, mentioning Lord Kinross' book [\\"The Ottoman Centuries\\"] as an example.  Indeed that is a first-class history.  Rather, Wheatcroft continues, he wants to write about `the idea of the Ottomans and how in the West that idea became so completely divorced from the reality\\".  I am not sure that THE OTTOMANS represents a successful attempt at doing that, but it is a very interesting book, well-worth reading for anyone with a desire to spend some hours thinking about the Turkish past.<br />The two last chapters, on `the lustful Turk' and `the terrible Turk', truly delve into the construction and propagation of these commonly-held European images of the Ottomans, images that have not yet quite died off.  Elsewhere, Wheatcroft occasionally remarks on or talks briefly about such images as they grew, but his work is more like a very interesting tour of some aspects of Ottoman life and history.  His fine descriptions of battles and sieges---the initial siege and fall of Constantinople, the battle of Mohacs, the sieges of Vienna in 1529 and 1683---do not really fit into his theme.  The full chapter spent on telling how the proud, corrupt and troublesome janissaries were finally destroyed provide a fascinating story, but are not about `the idea of the Ottomans'.  While describing Ottoman institutions like the harem or army and the city of Stamboul itself, we can look through European eyes to some extent, thus coming closer to the theme, and the process of change, discussed in Chapter 6, called \\"Dreams from the Rose Pavilion: the Meandering Path of Reform\\", also involves European interpretations of the need for reforms and European estimations of their success.  One of the highlights of THE OTTOMANS is the fine collection of pictures done by European artists---definitely a European view of the Turkish past.  Not as much is made of these as could be: they might have been the center of the whole book.<br /> I liked Wheatcroft's constant attempt to make readers consider the exaggerations of the past, to make Western readers realize that the Ottoman Empire, despite its faults, was one of the major political entities of the world for over 400 years.  For much of that time it had institutions that rivalled or outshone those of the West.  Even when the Industrial Revolution and the concomitant rise of modern warfare tilted the scales of power towards the West, many European opinions of Turkish cruelty, corruption, or lack of cleanliness neglected European shortcomings in identical areas.  If Westerners are ever going to accept Turkey as a member of the European community or merely as an equal ally and partner, a realization of these centuries of propaganda is a must.  If you are looking for an academically useful book on the Ottoman Empire, this is probably not it.  If, on the other hand, you just want a fascinating, well-illustrated book that is clearly-written and lucid, giving you details of a fascinating sweep of history, you will enjoy THE OTTOMANS.  It could be the jumping off place for wider readings in Ottoman history and culture.  And it helps set the record straight.uld be: they might have been the center of the whole book. <br /> I liked Wheatcroft's constant attempt to make readers consider the exaggerations of the past, to make Western readers realize that the Ottoman Empire, despite its faults, was one of the major political entities of the world for over 400 years.  For much of that time it had institutions that rivalled or outshone those of the West.  Even when the Industrial Revolution and the concomitant rise of modern warfare tilted the scales of power towards the West, many European opinions of Turkish cruelty, corruption, or lack of cleanliness neglected European shortcomings in identical areas.  If Westerners are ever going to accept Turkey as a member of the European community or merely as an equal ally and partner, a realization of these centuries of propaganda is a must.  If you are looking for an academically useful book on the Ottoman Empire, this is probably not it.  If, on the other hand, you just want a fascinating, well-illustrated book that is clearly-written and lucid, giving you details of a fascinating sweep of history, you will enjoy THE OTTOMANS.  It could be the jumping off place for wider readings in Ottoman history and culture.  And it helps set the record straight.	2000-12-05
US	52761040	R3B142GPJQQ5L0	0395294533	631550297	World's End And Other Stories	Books	3	5	8	N	N	&quot;I came, I saw, I was disappointed&quot;	Paul Theroux is a very talented writer.  He writes excellent stories, he's written some good novels, and he used to write good travel books too.  I've enjoyed plenty of them over the years.  Who am I ?  I am just a reader out there in small town Massachusetts who's had a few experiences in life and who likes to read books about faraway places, or maybe about the human comedy.  I'm not a hot-shot critic.  I can't expound on the literary qualities of this or that writer with the expertise gleaned from English departments, because I didn't attend any courses in those English departments.  But life is in the eye of the beholder.  As Mr. Theroux has grown older, his view of life has become more and more pessimistic.  Nothing gives him pleasure, everything leads to disappointment, failure, and frustration.  He sees many people trying to make up for the nature of his world through lies, delusions, and retreat.  He has become a man who sees only the garbage on the beach of life.  All relationships must end badly in this world---they are disappointing right from the start usually.  The maggot of indecision and betrayal always appears, it can be squeezed and ejected from under the skin as in the story \\"White Lies\\", but never avoided.  Your closest friends and heroes will fall short of your expectations, your loves will fade, and nothing can replace them.  Life---in these stories---is indeed a rotten, desperate situation.  But at least, Theroux can write about it, tear it apart, and send it out in sad, unpleasant little pieces.  Even if it's your old friend and mentor, you can turn on him and publish a whole book telling us what a rat he always was.  Maybe he was.  If I ever met Mr. Theroux, I'd make like \\"Roadrunner\\" and disappear in a flash, rather than risk winding up a crabbed, contemptible suburbanite in some story.<br />OK, these are my remarks.  If you've read this far, then I can tell you that taking into account these feelings of mine, there are some excellent stories in this collection, though some are not up to his usual high standard.  \\"The Odd-Job Man\\", about an American academic in England, \\"The Greenest Island\\", a long story about an inexperienced American youth in Puerto Rico, and \\"Clapham Junction\\", a short but powerful story about the depths of human foibles stand out.  Personally, I think you'd do better with \\"The Consul's File\\" or with some of the earlier novels.  If you already know Theroux and like his style, you'll probably find this collection excellent.  I find his view of the world too jaundiced, too cynical, too negative.  The brightest day, the happiest moment, the most beautiful scene always carries a vague menace and the seed of major failure.  I agree that it is possible, but always ???s in this collection, though some are not up to his usual high standard.  \\"The Odd-Job Man\\", about an American academic in England, \\"The Greenest Island\\", a long story about an inexperienced American youth in Puerto Rico, and \\"Clapham Junction\\", a short but powerful story about the depths of human foibles stand out.  Personally, I think you'd do better with \\"The Consul's File\\" or with some of the earlier novels.  If you already know Theroux and like his style, you'll probably find this collection excellent.  I find his view of the world too jaundiced, too cynical, too negative.  The brightest day, the happiest moment, the most beautiful scene always carries a vague menace and the seed of major failure.  I agree that it is possible, but always ???	2000-11-25
US	52761040	R1PADH17KIR1DS	0394708539	35246497	Zapata and the Mexican Revolution	Books	5	95	98	N	N	The Muhammad Ali of books on Zapata, and yet....	In every field of endeavor, in every activity known to Man, whether sailboarding or physics, hairdressing or chipmunk catching, there are people who excel, people who go far beyond the rest.  They reach the epitome while we mere mortals look up from below and marvel.  So, when you have read the 526 pages of Womack Jr.'s book [not counting the appendices], you can tell yourself that you have read THE book on Zapata and his role in the Mexican Revolution.  The author used every source available, he interviewed all those who were left alive to talk.  I wonder if any new printed sources will ever be found ?  Certainly everyone who played a role, however insignificant, in those long ago days of 1909-1920 is now dead, making new interviews extremely unlikely.  This is a work of art, a work of love, and a vast labor that surely took a few years off the life of the author, not to mention breaking some relationships.  It is the definitive work so far on the subject.  If you want to know the story of why and how Emiliano Zapata, a once insignificant small town horse trader and farmer, became a legendary rebel whose name resounds throughout Mexico today---a man who fought unwaveringly for the rights of small farmers and villagers to the land they worked---then you have no choice but to read this volume.  This is the epitome, this is the story in unbelievable detail; political, economic, social, military.  And yet, Zapata himself almost disappears in the vast bulk of detailed historical and interpretive observations.  It is not so much a work on an individual as on the whole period in a small area of Mexico.<br />If you want a general history of the Mexican Revolution because you are just beginning to think about the subject, if you are looking for concise explanations, then this is not the book you need.  ZAPATA AND THE MEXICAN REVOLUTION is for college courses on Latin American history, or for the scholar who wants every detail in Zapata's long struggle, for the person who wants to know what the peasants and small town dwellers of the state of Morelos went through in the first two decades of the twentieth century.  The work is impressive, not only for its vast wealth of detail, but for its compassion and sympathy for the aims of those people who made tremendous sacrifices for their cause.  Good photographs, a good map of Morelos.  If you are not that interested in Mexico, but would just like to see what a great, academic, social history book could be like, I can recommend this book without hesitation.  At times, the detail is overwhelming, a vast body of characters and place names that can hardly be absorbed.  [There are around 90 footnotes to each chapter, sometimes more.]  But, if you want to know the whole story, this is the book for you.  It is the best.wants to know what the peasants and small town dwellers of the state of Morelos went through in the first two decades of the twentieth century.  The work is impressive, not only for its vast wealth of detail, but for its compassion and sympathy for the aims of those people who made tremendous sacrifices for their cause.  Good photographs, a good map of Morelos.  If you are not that interested in Mexico, but would just like to see what a great, academic, social history book could be like, I can recommend this book without hesitation.  At times, the detail is overwhelming, a vast body of characters and place names that can hardly be absorbed.  [There are around 90 footnotes to each chapter, sometimes more.]  But, if you want to know the whole story, this is the book for you.  It is the best.	2000-11-22
US	52761040	R3I3P499T8XIQB	0374522839	599734264	The Death of Artemio Cruz: A Novel	Books	5	47	49	N	N	Mexican Bigshot's Life Reflects Times	The violent society of Mexico in the 19th century produced a bloody revolution that laid the foundations for a new Mexico after 1920.  The revolution devoured its dreamers and hopers, as revolutions tend to do, so that it was co-opted by the most violent, least idealistic types, who arranged Mexican society to their benefit, even if the common man ultimately did derive some advantages too.  For the winners, especially as the century wore on, it seemed as if goose neck stuffed with pork-liver pat&eacute;, or perhaps the damask armchairs by a fireplace in the huge living room loomed far larger than social justice.  For them, the ruthless grab for power turned out to be a successful gambit.  Artemio Cruz is such a successful individual, determined to let nothing stop his rise to the top, taking advantage of every chance brought to him by the tides of war and political intrigue.<br />The backward-forward nature of the narrative, the wordy lyricism interspersed with terse action sequences, and the dwelling upon illness, decay, and death locate this novel on the absolute opposite end of the literary continuum from say, the quiet, spare prose of Japanese author Kawabata Yasunari.  This is a novel of bright colors, of deep, intense feelings, a novel in which the author thrives on vocabulary and the effect of the words themselves, a novel of ultimately surprising revelations that do not stop until the very last pages.  Artemio Cruz desires power for its own sake, he will stoop to any deed to acquire it.  Fuentes scrapes back layer upon layer of the character, digging deep into his psyche to tell why.<br />THE DEATH OF ARTEMIO CRUZ is a highly intellectual, cleverly-constructed novel that is not easy to read.  It encapsulates a most turbulent 70 years of Mexican history, from 1889 to 1959, and at the same time, is a poetical, psychological study of an individual that can have few peers in the realm of modern literature.  Fuentes opens everything subtly, gradually.  You meet a dying man on his last day and through flashbacks come to understand who he is---cruel, cynical, lucky, devastated---and how he destroyed everyone around him, yet kept them loyal through money and power.  If basically an unattractive personality, Artemio Cruz is not a monster; he bears considerable similarity to people you know, maybe to yourself, but the times made him what he was.  Fuentes has written a masterpiece: one of the great novels of the 20th century, certainly.  If what I have written intrigues you, be sure to read it.ying man on his last day and through flashbacks come to understand who he is---cruel, cynical, lucky, devastated---and how he destroyed everyone around him, yet kept them loyal through money and power.  If basically an unattractive personality, Artemio Cruz is not a monster; he bears considerable similarity to people you know, maybe to yourself, but the times made him what he was.  Fuentes has written a masterpiece: one of the great novels of the 20th century, certainly.  If what I have written intrigues you, be sure to read it.	2000-11-17
US	52761040	R2XEAOSL5L5ANJ	0292751249	839298297	My Car in Managua	Books	4	21	23	N	N	Just barely chugging along in Nicaragua	Once upon a time, as I remember, there was a country called Nicaragua.  It was in the news every day.  Revolutionaries had taken it over.  This was perceived as a great threat to our nation, (the USA)---a well-known military pushover with a decrepit economy which could easily have been totally destroyed by this Central American Marxist powerhouse.  We armed the opposition and a war ensued in which the poor killed the poor.  Russians, Bulgarians, and even Libyans appeared in Central America.  People came visiting from everywhere who dreamed that Latin American countries could develop without being dominated by Uncle Sam.  Even Salman Rushdie wrote a book about it.  Suddenly, an election was held---hey, I thought Nicaragua was totalitarian---and the revolutionaries lost.  Nicaragua faded from the news immediately and nothing more has ever been heard of the place.  That's the media biz.<br />MY CAR IN MANAGUA stands out like a lighthouse on a dark stormy night.  An eminently reasonable man spent a lot of time there and wrote an academic study of the place.  This is not it.  Colburn captures the flavor of Nicaragua in those tumultuous years here, describing daily life and survival tactics in easily-flowing prose.  No cant, no rhetoric, no animosity.  In a brief book he covers a vast variety of subjects; from car purchase and maintenance to accounting and management techniques on \\"revolutionary\\" cattle ranches.  You can find out what kind of toothpaste was available in Sandinista Nicaragua (Bulgarian) or how to tell a middle class home in Managua (it had cement floors).  Everything is described with understanding and with a sense of humor.  The book is illustrated with drawings by a famous Nicaraguan cartoonist of the time, R&oacute;ger S&aacute;nchez Flores, though I did not find them exceptional.  We plainly see the economic mess created by a revolution that was far more successful in breaking down old social barriers and empowering the common man.  Colburn never harps on this, just notes various unvarnished facts.  The affection that the author feels for this impoverished, exhausted country is obvious.  For a commonsense view of 1980s Nicaragua that is enjoyable, well-written and insightful, you cannot do better than this book.  And it makes you wonder, not for the first time perhaps, if the USA's style of foreign policy will ever change.st notes various unvarnished facts.  The affection that the author feels for this impoverished, exhausted country is obvious.  For a commonsense view of 1980s Nicaragua that is enjoyable, well-written and insightful, you cannot do better than this book.  And it makes you wonder, not for the first time perhaps, if the USA's style of foreign policy will ever change.	2000-10-25
US	52761040	R3KU5DVPQV25BU	0313228477	781435879	Now We Are Civilized: A Study of the World View of the Zapotec Indians of Mitla, Oaxaca	Books	2	2	3	N	N	No wind in these palm trees	Hula hoops.  Sack dresses.  Tail fins.  Juke boxes.  Penny loafers.  Bee bop a lula.  All these words evoke a certain time because each era produces its own fashions and styles that seem so central then, but later disappear in favor of others.  That's the way it is in Anthropology too.  Over its history, which isn't all that long if we compare it to other fields, various styles of inquiry and various areas of concern have come and gone.  Early in the 20th century the main argument was between diffusionists (who thought that culture spread out from a few major centers) and those who believed in separate development.  Then, functionalism came in.  Anthropologists looked for the function of everything, including myth, symbol, religion, and ritual.  They made lists of cultural \\"traits\\" and constructed models. Later came structuralism, influenced strongly by Claude Levi Strauss, and post-structuralism, which is still in vogue today.<br />Lewis did his Ph.D thesis field in Mitla, a small Zapotec Indian town not far from Oaxaca, Mexico.  When he returned to Chicago, where the University was the center of American anthropology at the time, his advisor told him that he hadn't really found anything new; many people had already done research in Mesoamerican towns.  So, to break into print, Lewis tried to focus on two things instead of writing a standard 1950s ethnography.  First, he concentrated on describing the Mitle&ntilde;os' world view (general way they viewed life, large belief system encompassing more than religion) and secondly, he attempted to link the writing anthropology to philosophy and literature.  It is my opinion, given from a perspective of nearly 50 years later, when styles in writing anthropology have changed drastically, that he did not succeed on either count.  It may be because he tried to do all this in 91 pages!<br />To describe the world view of a people you need exceedingly \\"thick\\" description.  Lewis', on the other hand, is very thin.  As he himself admits, he did not try to make readers hear \\"the wind in the palm trees\\", nor do we find chickens being killed for divination, their blood spattering the squatting diviner.  There are no gongs, no rubies, no spears and no violent tropical storms.  It's rather pallid reading.  The attempt to connect his work to the famous works of anthropology, to the ideas of Bergson, Baudelaire, and Kenneth Burke, as well as Benedict, Firth, Hoebel, Leach, Malinowski, and Mead is also very brief.  However, the last few pages of comments that bring together many ideas are the most interesting in this lightweight book that reflects the fashions of a different era.  [This review is based on the 1960 edition.]its, he did not try to make readers hear \\"the wind in the palm trees\\", nor do we find chickens being killed for divination, their blood spattering the squatting diviner.  There are no gongs, no rubies, no spears and no violent tropical storms.  It's rather pallid reading.  The attempt to connect his work to the famous works of anthropology, to the ideas of Bergson, Baudelaire, and Kenneth Burke, as well as Benedict, Firth, Hoebel, Leach, Malinowski, and Mead is also very brief.  However, the last few pages of comments that bring together many ideas are the most interesting in this lightweight book that reflects the fashions of a different era.  [This review is based on the 1960 edition.]	2000-10-22
US	52761040	R1QFFJUC5KHOMO	0435086219	255190201	Fantasia: An Algerian Cavalcade	Books	3	23	33	N	N	A Rich Mosaic of Fragments	This is the first novel written by an Algerian, man or woman, that I have ever read.  I suspect that could be true for many readers.  As a new voice in my world of literature, then, it's an important book.  I saw FANTASIA as a kaleidescope, though, always producing patterns and colors, always arranged, but not always understandable.  I found it very hard to judge this work because it has many facets, like a shifted kaleidescope.<br />***** Five stars for the idea or conception of the novel, for language (if it is well-translated), for the whole effort of bringing a woman's perspective on colonialism, on revolutionary struggle, and on tradition.  Djebar is obsessed with the \\"word\\", especially the written word and its strength.  \\"The word is a torch; to be held up in front of the wall of separation or withdrawal...\\"  Words preserve and pass on memories, tragedies, pain, love and lack of love.  Words hold the keys to Algeria's past, the world shattered by the French invasion and conquest of the mid-19th century, when 25 years of war ruined the country.  But the French conquerers wrote of it, much more than the Algerian defenders.  Their words must be mined for the reality, we must forge the Algerian view from the 'ore'.  Words again unite the Algerian women and men who fought France in the 1950s.  But those very French words, the language of the conquerers and destroyers, are used to pass on here, in this novel, the very heartfelt, most intimate emotions of the author.  She speaks of this.  Perhaps silence is more powerful, implying resistance.  \\"Writing does not silence the voice, but awakens it, above all to resurrect so many vanished sisters.\\"  Those are the sisters who didn't know French, who could not speak out from their cloistered existence.<br />****For bringing Algerian history to life from an Algerian perspective, and an Algerian woman's view at that, a woman who, through an educated father and schooling escaped the enclosed future that awaited her.  The struggle, the never-ending resistance to the occupation of their land.<br />***The plot of a novel is a fishing line with some attractive hooks for catching readers.  If this line is broken too often, no fish can be caught.  The novel becomes a collection of beautiful fragments, leaving the reader to imagine what it could be if it were all joined somehow.  FANTASIA suffers from a too intricate sub-division of the voices.  It is a layered approach, the conflict between two worlds---a conflict that entered even into the author's soul--- it is effective poetically, but not as prose....we lose track of who is saying what, who is related to whom, where everyone fits in.  Overall Djebar reaches us, but the novel has an abstract quality that does not emotionally involve us much with any characters.uggle, the never-ending resistance to the occupation of their land.<br />***The plot of a novel is a fishing line with some attractive hooks for catching readers.  If this line is broken too often, no fish can be caught.  The novel becomes a collection of beautiful fragments, leaving the reader to imagine what it could be if it were all joined somehow.  FANTASIA suffers from a too intricate sub-division of the voices.  It is a layered approach, the conflict between two worlds---a conflict that entered even into the author's soul--- it is effective poetically, but not as prose....we lose track of who is saying what, who is related to whom, where everyone fits in.  Overall Djebar reaches us, but the novel has an abstract quality that does not emotionally involve us much with any characters.	2000-10-16
US	52761040	R160G8XQZ55Y3P	0333338367	846022659	The Tyranny of Distance: How Distance Shaped Australia's History	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Putting Geography in Command	Almost every history book, whether on France or on China, takes a certain period, then sketches out, in greater or lesser detail, the main characters and events of that epoch.  Better history books also concentrate on economic trends, movements of ideas and people, cultural styles and artistic creativity.  Some historians write on a period through the life of a particular historic personage.  History writers that march to a different drummer are scarce, perhaps because of the requirements of publishers and promotion committees.  Geoffrey Blainey is one of a small band indeed.<br />Those familiar with contemporary Australia will recall the heaps of scorn poured on this gentleman by all kinds of people when he made some public comments against Asian immigration.  No doubt these were unfortunate, but they do not in any sense take away from the quality of his work (which is free from racist remarks).  THE TYRANNY OF DISTANCE takes geography as the main \\"character\\" in Australian history---that is, the fact that Australia is so far from the colonizing country, Britain.  Blainey opens with a discussion of isolation.  Instead of establishing colonies along a seaboard, as they did in America, the British founded \\"limpet ports\\", clinging to the vast continent at the very edge.  While the early settlers in these widely-separated ports needed to import all forms of equipment from Britain, there was little in the way of cargo for the return voyage, neither wool nor gold weighing much.  Thus, there was not much incentive to send ships to the distant continent. The story then turns to whalers, gold seekers, and the rising necessity to manufacture many items locally since importing them was too slow and too expensive.  Why didn't this beautiful, resource-rich land attract more settlers like the USA ?  Mainly, Blainey argues, because of distance.  The long-lasting \\"assisted passage\\" plan (government paying for immigrants' voyage)  came into existence when the other kind of \\"assisted passage\\"---sending convicts, tapered off.  The second part of the book examines how Australia tamed the tyranny of distance through steamships, railways, airplanes, and through the other developments of the 20th century.  This well-researched book is written in a most readable style, in fact, it is hard to put down.  There are 5 useful maps and many interesting illustrations.  If you would like one book that gives you an idea about Australia's history, that tells you why it was never just \\"another America\\" (and never will be), I strongly recommend THE TYRANNY OF DISTANCE.ed passage\\"---sending convicts, tapered off.  The second part of the book examines how Australia tamed the tyranny of distance through steamships, railways, airplanes, and through the other developments of the 20th century.  This well-researched book is written in a most readable style, in fact, it is hard to put down.  There are 5 useful maps and many interesting illustrations.  If you would like one book that gives you an idea about Australia's history, that tells you why it was never just \\"another America\\" (and never will be), I strongly recommend THE TYRANNY OF DISTANCE.	2000-10-09
US	52761040	R2B7ZCDQUIJ2ZE	0140161074	891040445	No Signposts in the Sea (Virago Modern Classics)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Reticence + Diffidence = Emptiness	Vita Sackville-West had a colorful, interesting life.  It might have been a better idea for me to read her autobiography, if she ever wrote one.  Some people say that this novel is indeed quite autobiographical, but I would reply, \\"only in a limited way.\\"  This novel features some rather stuffy Victorian poetry, Orientalist descriptions of places that never existed, but are rather tutti-frutti composites of Africa, Asia, and the Pacific, all seen with a naturally condescending eye, and the whole unpleasant gamut of upper class English manners and attitudes.  Her characters are so careful not to intrude, not to reveal their own ideas or preferences, that they miss love, they miss life itself.  The two main characters long for human contact-more especially, Edmund Carr, the chief protagonist, who is suffering from an invisible but terminal illness-but their carefully cultivated aloofness prevents it.  I include this sentence as a single example---\\"....she added, as though fearing that her question might have been too personal, too indiscreet, and also that my answer might involve her into betraying her own opinion...\\"  These are two people falling in love ??<br />While NO SIGNPOSTS IN THE SEA is cleverly constructed, it is ultimately too sentimental, too Hollywood-ish, and too marked by class prejudices to rate as good literature.  I would call it light-weight romance by a woman who should have been capable of much better.  Three stars is pretty generous, I believe.	2000-09-30
US	52761040	R3V5LDLPM5E1PB	0520069854	323192426	Bananas, Beaches and Bases: Making Feminist Sense of International Politics	Books	3	13	31	N	N	Sexploitation vs. just plain old exploitation	I can't call myself a feminist.  That would be quite ridiculous.  But I have never been one to disparage the motivations of the movement in general.  Women have been suppressed and oppressed and still are, for the most part.  Their male oppressors still want to tell them what they can or cannot do with their bodies, hence with their very lives.  That's the bottom line.  I didn't really ever do any deep reading in the voluminous literature on feminism, women's rights, etc.  I didn't think that I was clever for having avoided it, I just didn't have time or (I admit) burning curiosity.  So, when I saw BANANAS, BEACHES and BASES on a bookstore shelf some years ago, I bought it, thinking that the subtitle, \\"Making Feminist Sense of International Politics\\" brought together two topics about which I could learn more.  I finally read it recently, but must give it a very mixed review.<br />The author picks some very interesting issues.  Tourism for one---a global business that touches nearly every corner of the earth and has created as many problems as it has solved.  Mass, commercial tourism can be compared with plantation agriculture or clear-cut logging in terms of the amount of damage it does to human lives and the environment.  Enloe brings this out very aptly.  Military bases, plantation agriculture (for instance, of bananas),  the need for cheap but fashionable, ready-to-wear clothes, and the high demand for domestic servants all fall under her discerning eye.  Nobody can argue with her general positions on these subjects or on lesser topics such as `diplomatic wives' and their ambiguous position in the foreign services of the world.  However---and this is a big however---I do disagree with her overall presentation.  Sentences like \\"Yet nationalist movements have rarely taken women's experiences as the starting point for an understanding of how a people becomes colonized or how it throws off the shackles....\\" appalled me.  Why just women ?  Haven't the men been exploited, albeit in different ways ?  Is not the entire country affected ?  Prostitution exploits women, we are reminded.  There is a vast number of male and child prostitutes too, just as exploited.  Domestic violence may assist base commanders, but this is very far from being what is centrally dangerous and exploitative about bases.  Such simplistic examples are legion in this book.<br />I think the basic fault of BB &amp; B is to separate the fate of women from that of men or rather, from the fate of all victims of imperialism, oppression, and exploitation.  If Enloe's aim was merely to show how women have been severely oppressed in X numbers of ways, that would be fine.  But it is a reductionist argument to claim that women should be the focus for anti-exploitative actions, that women are central to the solutions.  As women are half the human race, it is OBVIOUS that they cannot be excluded.  Men have controlled and do control women, but international politics cannot be interpreted as a system for controlling women ! It is a system of power and anything and everything will be controlled if it can be. Feminism, as an attack on the way the world is presently constructed, is strong.  Gender, as an ideological mode or framework, is weak, just as race, class, religion or language would be.  Male/female, light/dark, yin/yang---these are eternal principles that cannot be ignored.  ANY solution which leaves out a part, is no solution.  If that were the only message Enloe put out, I would have no quarrel with her.  As it is, I do.ted, albeit in different ways ?  Is not the entire country affected ?  Prostitution exploits women, we are reminded.  There is a vast number of male and child prostitutes too, just as exploited.  Domestic violence may assist base commanders, but this is very far from being what is centrally dangerous and exploitative about bases.  Such simplistic examples are legion in this book.<br />I think the basic fault of BB &amp; B is to separate the fate of women from that of men or rather, from the fate of all victims of imperialism, oppression, and exploitation.  If Enloe's aim was merely to show how women have been severely oppressed in X numbers of ways, that would be fine.  But it is a reductionist argument to claim that women should be the focus for anti-exploitative actions, that women are central to the solutions.  As women are half the human race, it is OBVIOUS that they cannot be excluded.  Men have controlled and do control women, but international politics cannot be interpreted as a system for controlling women ! It is a system of power and anything and everything will be controlled if it can be. Feminism, as an attack on the way the world is presently constructed, is strong.  Gender, as an ideological mode or framework, is weak, just as race, class, religion or language would be.  Male/female, light/dark, yin/yang---these are eternal principles that cannot be ignored.  ANY solution which leaves out a part, is no solution.  If that were the only message Enloe put out, I would have no quarrel with her.  As it is, I do.	2000-09-20
US	52761040	RIEJMYA3PM5EI	0802130119	778351106	The Master and Margarita	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Realo-magicalism was born here	One evening last week, as I sat on a bench by Ware's Pond in the dwindling  light, watching faint trails of muskrats in the waterlily-studded water of  aluminum hue, I heard a knock on the door.  I leaned out from Desolation  Row and opened up a crack.  A tall, naked redheaded woman, shining like the  pond at sunset, kissed me with lips of ice. Frozen, I dug into a plate of  roast duck and noodle soup.  Strains of \\"Jumpin Jack Flash\\" accompanied my  pea-green broom as I soared over Salem, Massachusetts out to sea with a  walrus in sunglasses.  As I headed to my local devils' union bash, I  realized that Jesus was not all that people said he was, perhaps he was  more.  I danced at the oily zombie jamboree, broke up a few apartments on  Beacon Hill and handed out dollar bills that later turned into confetti.  I convinced the walrus that he'd definitely been framed by the purple  Irving Snerd, who disappeared in the Virgin Islands while investigating  phony leveraged buyouts.  After all, his wife, the highly-suspicious May  Alice Snerd, had been seen simultaneously eating a greasy hotdog in Boston,  and stealing red and blue icons from a golden-domed church in Zagorsk.  By  the next morning, zonked out of my brain, but safe and well, I knew that  I'd been involved in a political satire, a love story, a magical mystery  tour---or, if none of these things were true---then I must have been  reading THE MASTER AND MARGARITA !<br />This unbelievably original novel is  like a Bob Dylan song---if you don't get it, just don't mess with it.  It's  impossible to explain.  It's a feeling.  It's an experience that will light  up your days while you read it.  You'll get sucked in and when you emerge  on page 402, you'll be sorry there's no more.  I could sit here and write  some dry academic analysis, offer the odd, frail criticism, but I'm going  to leave that to the literary honchos.  \\"The absurdities of Communism\\",  \\"the banality of tyranny\\" blah-blah-blah.  OK, it's true. But a kiss is  just a kiss, and so just remember this my fellow citizens of the  world---Bulgakov has to have written one of the outstanding novels of the  20th century.  Don't fail to read it.  Fly off and as our compa&ntilde;eros say so  aptly, \\"vuela tu mente\\".  (Or the devil take you.)a kiss is  just a kiss, and so just remember this my fellow citizens of the  world---Bulgakov has to have written one of the outstanding novels of the  20th century.  Don't fail to read it.  Fly off and as our compaeros say so  aptly, \\"vuela tu mente\\".   (Or the devil take you.)	2000-09-09
US	52761040	R2NDDIOF9DR6OV	081227783X	138734001	The Ring of Dancers: Images of Faroese Culture (South Asia Seminar)	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Serious academic views of a far away place	Europe's many international soccer tournaments see some phenomenal  mismatches, as when Russia plays Andorra, for example, or when Germany  plays San Marino.  But I've always found the Faroe Islands team the  bravest.  Imagine a country of 40,000 people taking on countries of 50  million or more !  They do it every year.  There's only one stadium that  meets FIFA standards.  Other than in soccer, though, you'd have to admit  that news about the Faroe Islands is \\"slightly\\" sparse.  How many people go  there, how many people know much about this group of islands in the North  Atlantic more or less between Norway and Iceland ?  I was certainly one who  knew almost nothing.  THE RING OF DANCERS was published in 1981.  At the  time, judging from the no doubt-comprehensive bibliography in this volume,  there were possibly two books in English on the Faroes, with a couple more  mimeographed articles or studies in obscure places.  There was also a  National Geographic article in 1970.  That was it.<br />Unfortunately this  book will not be a satisfactory source of general information for most  readers.  It is meant for specialists---for those interested primarily in  the anthropology of Scandinavia.  The amount of detail is tremendous in  three out of four chapters, much more than can be absorbed by readers who  do not have a professional interest in the Faroes.  Chapter Two explores a  very interesting problem---how people refer to compass directions and how  this relates to a general geographic conception of their land.  In New  England, people commonly say \\"over to\\" Salem, \\"into Boston\\" or \\"up to  Boston\\" but \\"down to Maine\\", to name a few examples.  The Faroese pattern  is far more intricate, but who can remember the details of all this in an  unknown language ?  Geertz' \\"Local Knowledge\\" (1983) comes to mind.  Chapter Three is an analysis of a Cinderella-like folktale which supposedly  reveals much about 19th century Faroe society and the changes it was  undergoing.  I was not entirely convinced, but the attempt was interesting.  Because we readers are plunged right into these analyses without any  background, everything remains on the level of \\"Yeah ?  Really ?  Well,  maybe, I guess.....\\"<br />Chapter Four is about the development of the Faroese  language---yes, OK---but it was only Chapter Five that grabbed my  attention, both on the descriptive level---it's about sporadic pilot whale  hunts when up to a thousand whales can be massacred on the beaches followed  by night-long celebrations with dancing and drinking---and on the  analytical level---the author used Geertz' Balinese cockfight article as a  rough model.  This chapter and the short interviews of Faroese  intellectuals that followed were what saved the book for me.  In  short, if you are looking for a readable introduction to the Faroes, this  is not it, though there are some tantalizingly fascinating parts.  If you  are a student of Anthropology or a professional, you can definitely find  some interesting material here, though if you are unfamiliar with  Scandinavia, you still may be left with quite a number of questions..  I was not entirely convinced, but the attempt was interesting.   Because we readers are plunged right into these analyses without any  background, everything remains on the level of \\"Yeah ?  Really ?  Well,  maybe, I guess.....\\"<br />Chapter Four is about the development of the Faroese  language---yes, OK---but it was only Chapter Five that grabbed my  attention, both on the descriptive level---it's about sporadic pilot whale  hunts when up to a thousand whales can be massacred on the beaches followed  by night-long celebrations with dancing and drinking---and on the  analytical level---the author used Geertz' Balinese cockfight article as a  rough model.  This chapter and the short interviews of Faroese  intellectuals that followed were what saved the book for me.       In  short, if you are looking for a readable introduction to the Faroes, this  is not it, though there are some tantalizingly fascinating parts.  If you  are a student of Anthropology or a professional, you can definitely find  some interesting material here, though if you are unfamiliar with  Scandinavia, you still may be left with quite a number of questions.	2000-08-30
US	52761040	R1ZGRX8JKQL0GA	0517585480	816102323	Utopias Elsewhere: Journeys in a Vanishing World	Books	4	24	24	N	N	&quot;I don't get no kick from campaigns&quot;	Although everyone can find Anthony Daniels' wit entertaining and his observations keen, the overwhelming emotion created by this book is  depression.  How many people have spent their lives suffocating under awful  regimes composed of banal torturers and Kafkaesque bureaucrats of no  imagination ?  (with apologies to Kafka)  UTOPIAS ELSEWHERE is a series of  articles written on five countries where Communism was about to disappear  as a way of life, or at least, it seemed that way in 1989-90.  In Albania  and Romania, the author was probably among the last writers to attempt  description of the obscene systems of government that held power  there-totalitarian Balkan dictatorships with a Marxist frosting.  In  Vietnam, the government was in the process of change, and in the two last,  North Korea and Cuba, the melting process has at last begun, albeit a  decade later.  Daniels, with an average of about two weeks' stay in each  place, puts his finger precisely on what makes these places so awful,  despite the fact that a lot of Western intellectuals, none of whom actually  settled there, praised these places.  [recall for example the Swedish  couple, Myrdal and Kessle, and their unbelievably naive book, \\"Albania  Defiant\\"] Daniels is able to describe the worst aspects of these so-called  \\"worker paradises\\" very succinctly.  Comments about everything, from  ugly,grandiose architecture to triumphalist propaganda, hit the mark.  The  author often casts doubt on his own opinions, makes you consider whether he  has been entirely objective or not.  I thought he did not consider well  enough the fate of millions of poor people trapped in horrible privations  in many Third World countries.  For such people, without electricity, clean  water, schools, or health care---living maybe inside a cement pipe---under  constant threat of petty harrassment or brutal intimidation from `local  authorities', perhaps Cuba or Vietnam would not have seemed so terrible.  Am I one of those dreaded \\"apologists\\" for tyrannical regimes of the left ?  No, I've lived in India for five years.  When it comes to North Korea or  Hoxha's Albania, however, it is really debatable whether becoming a virtual  automaton and slave of the state (and still starving)  is still better than  abject poverty and exploitation.  Is life at all worth living under  megalomaniacs like Kim Il-sung ?  People may indeed think that they are  already dead when they are still walking around.  When Daniels describes an  entire Potemkin department store in Pyongyang, fake customers and all, you  have to agree with him that North Korea managed to \\"out-Orwell Orwell\\".  Romania under Ceaucescu, which I saw some 11 years before Daniels, was, as  he correctly describes it, a kleptocracy with fascist trappings and Marxist  vocabulary ruled by a modern Dracula: nobody believed in anything.  While  Daniels noted the similarities of all five would-be utopias, he did not  note their differences so clearly.  If you're aware of these differences,  they do appear in his writing, but he takes no pains to underline them.  This is the major fault in a very interesting (but sad) book.aded \\"apologists\\" for tyrannical regimes of the left ?   No, I've lived in India for five years.  When it comes to North Korea or  Hoxha's Albania, however, it is really debatable whether becoming a virtual  automaton and slave of the state (and still starving)  is still better than  abject poverty and exploitation.  Is life at all worth living under  megalomaniacs like Kim Il-sung ?  People may indeed think that they are  already dead when they are still walking around.  When Daniels describes an  entire Potemkin department store in Pyongyang, fake customers and all, you  have to agree with him that North Korea managed to \\"out-Orwell Orwell\\".   Romania under Ceaucescu, which I saw some 11 years before Daniels, was, as  he correctly describes it, a kleptocracy with fascist trappings and Marxist  vocabulary ruled by a modern Dracula: nobody believed in anything.  While  Daniels noted the similarities of all five would-be utopias, he did not  note their differences so clearly.  If you're aware of these differences,  they do appear in his writing, but he takes no pains to underline them.   This is the major fault in a very interesting (but sad) book.	2000-08-24
US	52761040	R2L1A7K9HDDBTQ	0811202151	283617845	Miss Lonelyhearts & the Day of the Locust	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Two American classics in one book	A car accident took the life of Nathanael West when he was 37 years old, cutting off the career of a most original, talented writer, who might have  been one of our venerated 20th century literary heroes if he had lived.  These two short novels are perhaps the best of his tragically brief opus.  They have to be reviewed separately, even if this book combines both of  them.<br />\\"God said to Abraham, \\"Kill me a son !\\"  I'm not puttin' you  on, though, MISS LONELYHEARTS has got to be one of the best American novels  ever written and it's only 58 pages long.  The language is so electric that  it reminds you of the Nobel Prize-winning Toni Morrison.  The style is so  simple that it recalls Richard Brautigan.  And the theme is so universal  that you'll recall William Faulkner, another Nobelist.  This all in the  space of a few pages.  If West had lived in the 80s or 90s, he would have  been an instant wonder of literature.  Or maybe he still would have sunk  like a stone in the sea of junk.  Never mind punditry.  If you ever liked  amazing tales of dreams, fights, sex, bold symbolic imagery, confusion, and  despair, this novel is for you !  Miss Lonelyhearts is an alcoholic man who  writes the \\"lonely hearts\\" column in a New York newspaper.  He wishes to  alleviate the pain in the mass of people \\"out there\\", but he cannot stop  from causing pain to all those around him, nor most of all, to himself.  Do  not fail to read this book !<br />\\"Dream Factory Produces Mostly Nightmares\\"  Every dog must have his day, but that day would be positively  industrious compared to those that fill the lives of dronish hangers-on in  Hollywood that populate THE DAY OF THE LOCUST.  Tilt 1930s America on its  side and every loose cannon bounces its way down to Los Angeles in search  of X.  Most books on Hollywood or the film industry concentrate on glamor,  power, and money, not to mention sex and perversions thereof.  West's short  novel takes a look at all those who didn't realize their dreams, who didn't  even know what exactly their dreams were, or who were too stupid, naive, or  drunk to do anything about them.  Then there are all those who lived off  the dreamers, the people for whom a quick buck or a quick encounter were  everything.  The book ends in total nightmare; no end to the scream.  Life  without substance is not much of a life.  West never stoops so low as to  lecture us about \\"family values\\".  Another powerful novel in a small-size  package.  Dynamite.ealize their dreams, who didn't  even know what exactly their dreams were, or who were too stupid, naive, or  drunk to do anything about them.  Then there are all those who lived off  the dreamers, the people for whom a quick buck or a quick encounter were  everything.  The book ends in total nightmare; no end to the scream.  Life  without substance is not much of a life.  West never stoops so low as to  lecture us about \\"family values\\".  Another powerful novel in a small-size  package.  Dynamite.	2000-08-19
US	52761040	R23BE6P5CQRS3Y	0385471440	63696294	The Wedding: A Novel	Books	2	6	12	N	N	Timeless message not delivered very well	I looked forward to reading Dorothy West's THE WEDDING because I'd heard  it was excellent, an instant classic.  I must say I was extremely  disappointed.  This is not a well-written book, mainly because the  dialogues are forced. The author gives information to the reader through  stilted dialogue rather than letting the characters speak as people really  would.  Sure, if your standard of literature is Danielle Steel or Mary  Higgins Clark or Jackie Collins, Dorothy West is still a good writer.  But,  hey, if you are coming to this from an ethnic/feminist point of view, then  instead read Toni Morrison, Alice Walker, or Gloria Naylor.  If you are  looking for good women's writing regardless of ethnicity then what about  Edith Wharton, Virginia Woolf, Anita Desai, Arundhati Roy, Nawal  el-Saadawi, Assia Djebar, Jamaica Kincaid, Keri Hulme, or Christina Stead ?  If you are looking for just good writing, then read any of the above or any  good male author.  I can't recommend this novel except for beach reading.  Even though love is certainly love no matter what and race is a disastrous  concept that has spoiled millions of lives and created limitless suffering,  THE WEDDING is still overrated.	2000-08-13
US	52761040	R70IZN47F5CB1	0300052561	613959809	Sugarball: The American Game, the Dominican Dream	Books	4	14	14	N	N	&quot;What Makes Sammy Hit Those Runs ?&quot;	Growing up north of Boston in a small town, the Dominican Republic could  not have been further from my consciousness.  I knew it to be small,  tropical and under the heel of a dictator who liked white suits and big  cars.  One day he had his date with a machine gun bullet and that was that.  Subsequent political crises occasionally made the news, but not much more.  But over the last 40 years, \\"La Republica Dominicana\\" gradually impinged  on my consciousness.  Nearby towns began to fill up with Dominican  immigrants who cleaned houses, worked in restaurants and factories, and  appeared at weekend yard sales.  \\"Las Brisas del Caribe\\" takeout  restaurants, \\"Quisqueya\\" travel agencies, many small store fronts offering  \\"envios\\" and \\"llamados\\" began to be seen.  I had never gone to Santo  Domingo, but it had at last come to us.  And so, when Sammy Sosa and Mark  McGuire slugged out their famous home run duel of 1998, Dominican flags  flew from countless cars, people painted Sosa's name on the rear windows of  their Fords and Chevrolets and nobody could remain unaware that Dominican  patriotism ran strong in suburban Massachusetts.  Why did Dominicans get so  passionately involved in baseball ?  What did that contest mean to them ?<br />Alan Klein did not mention Sosa in his book, as it appeared in 1992.  Although many major league players are mentioned by name, SUGARBALL is not  an account of the exploits of Dominican ballplayers.  Rather it is a sober,  readable book, with an absolute minimum of jargon, of how cultural  imperialism works in the area of sport.  If the USA dominates the Dominican  Republic economically, in the areas of sugar, tourism, and small-scale  manufacturing, it also dominates culturally.  Using often-mentioned ideas  like `hegemony' and `resistance', Klein shows that though Americans  introduced baseball into the country, it remained independent until the  Dominicans got so talented that American major league teams sent permanent  scouts to recruit talent.  Eventually the US teams set up baseball  academies to train rookies and siphon them up north to minor and major  league teams.  These academies operate like any other colonial outpost,  according to Klein.  They locate raw material (players), refine it, and  ship it home.  The drain of talent became so drastic that the local  baseball leagues faced ruin, since all their players were being taken.  Yet, in the baseball that remained, we can see a defiant strain---the very  game that is the arena for exploitation can also provide a focus for  nationalism.  Hence the flags north of Boston in 1998.  It is in describing  this process that SUGARBALL is best.  Readers may bog down in the history  of Dominican baseball found in Chapter One, the details of which must be  too arcane to be of much interest.  The last chapter, with its overview of  sports and cultural resistance, might have better been made the first, so  that we would have perceived quickly the direction Klein wanted to take.  This book fits well into any course on the sociology of sport or into a  course on US relations with Latin America.  It may also be read by people  who want to understand the difference in cultural approach to the same game  or set of institutions.  The chapter on the atmosphere of the national  baseball stadium is excellent for this. I was hoping for more connection to  Dominican culture as a whole, especially with more Dominican voices.  Dominicans are the subject of this work, but seldom get to speak. The  research style and focus mark SUGARBALL as more a work of sociology than  anthropology.  I am not aware of other books with the same approach, even  though sport is a multi-billion dollar industry found in every single  nation on earth.  Thus, if you are looking for a book that connects sport  with economics and cultural domination of one nation by another, you have  come to the right place.o recruit talent.  Eventually the US teams set up baseball  academies to train rookies and siphon them up north to minor and major  league teams.  These academies operate like any other colonial outpost,  according to Klein.  They locate raw material (players), refine it, and  ship it home.  The drain of talent became so drastic that the local  baseball leagues faced ruin, since all their players were being taken.   Yet, in the baseball that remained, we can see a defiant strain---the very  game that is the arena for exploitation can also provide a focus for  nationalism.  Hence the flags north of Boston in 1998.  It is in describing  this process that SUGARBALL is best.  Readers may bog down in the history  of Dominican baseball found in Chapter One, the details of which must be  too arcane to be of much interest.  The last chapter, with its overview of  sports and cultural resistance, might have better been made the first, so  that we would have perceived quickly the direction Klein wanted to take.   This book fits well into any course on the sociology of sport or into a  course on US relations with Latin America.  It may also be read by people  who want to understand the difference in cultural approach to the same game  or set of institutions.  The chapter on the atmosphere of the national  baseball stadium is excellent for this. I was hoping for more connection to  Dominican culture as a whole, especially with more Dominican voices.  Dominicans are the subject of this work, but seldom get to speak. The  research style and focus mark SUGARBALL as more a work of sociology than  anthropology.  I am not aware of other books with the same approach, even  though sport is a multi-billion dollar industry found in every single  nation on earth.  Thus, if you are looking for a book that connects sport  with economics and cultural domination of one nation by another, you have  come to the right place.	2000-08-12
US	52761040	RH2EURPVOYCXJ	0701129700	239149657	Artful Albanian: The Memoirs of Enver Hoxha	Books	4	15	19	N	N	&quot;Albania's Long TIme Boss Tells All&quot; (or almost all)	Enver Hoxha was never a hero of mine.  For most of my life I've been fascinated by Albania, its culture, history, music, and literature, but  thanks to him I could only visit the country of my fascination in 1996.  I  found it in sorry shape, again thanks to this son of a landowning family  who returned from studying in France and Belgium to be a teacher and  subsequently to lead the Communist Partisans against the fascist invaders  during World War II.  Hoxha prepared for his takeover by fighting with the  non-Communist Albanian resistance just as often as with the Italians and  Germans.  Remaining in power from 1944 to his death in 1985, this Balkan  despot eventually quarreled with every power that aided him---Yugoslavia,  the USSR, and China---and became ever more paranoid, never leaving Albania  for the last 25 years of his life.  It is not too much to say that Hoxha  and his policies utterly ruined Albania, even if he kept it from being  swallowed by greedy neighbors.  He murdered, imprisoned, terrified, and  kept ignorant an entire people.  Seven years after his death, the whole  country lay destitute, destroyed, desperate.  Albania has had to begin from  scratch.  What has such a man got to say for himself ?<br />THE ARTFUL  ALBANIAN is an edited version of the many volumes-long memoirs of Enver  Hoxha.  Of course, it is possible that what Jon Halliday has not put into  the present volume is as revealing as what he has.  I rather doubt it  though.  Whatever the case, he has certainly gathered a number of  interesting sections, connected by intelligent commentary.  I found the  book fascinating for what it revealed about this dictator of a `people's  democracy\\" which, in the end, did not rise far above the Balkan  dictatorships of the past.  Hoxha emerges as more intelligent and  discerning than many world leaders, certainly more than most leaders  produced by the Communist \\"bloc\\" after World War II.  He is at is best in  criticizing the vainglorious amassing of the trappings of power of other  leaders, in divulging the hypocrisies of the worker states.  No word about  his own foibles of course.  There are a large number of interesting  conversations between Eastern bloc leaders complete with open threats and  farting dogs, and the intricacies of his relationship with China.  Hoxha  was a man who can casually speak of \\"liquidation\\" of a man or a class  without the slightest qualm.  In the end he killed his closest ally, Mehmet  Shehu, and denounced him as a Western agent.  Hoxha's last words in the  book are \\"..the walls of our fortress are of unshakeable granite rock.\\"  The pitiful, crumbling concrete pillboxes that dot Albania today, around  half a million of them, give a more accurate picture of Hoxha's  achievement.<br />If you are interested in knowing something about Hoxha,  about his view of what he did and whom he met, and if you don't mind a fair  bit of the old \\"party line\\" along the way, (from the horse's mouth) then by  all means read this book.  For anyone who wants to know what crushed  Albania, why it's in the mess that it's in, this book is a good place to  start.of the trappings of power of other  leaders, in divulging the hypocrisies of the worker states.  No word about  his own foibles of course.  There are a large number of interesting  conversations between Eastern bloc leaders complete with open threats and  farting dogs, and the intricacies of his relationship with China.   Hoxha  was a man who can casually speak of \\"liquidation\\" of a man or a class  without the slightest qualm.  In the end he killed his closest ally, Mehmet  Shehu, and denounced him as a Western agent.  Hoxha's last words in the  book are \\"..the walls of our fortress are of unshakeable granite rock.\\"   The pitiful, crumbling concrete pillboxes that dot Albania today, around  half a million of them, give a more accurate picture of Hoxha's  achievement.  <br />If you are interested in knowing something about Hoxha,  about his view of what he did and whom he met, and if you don't mind a fair  bit of the old \\"party line\\" along the way, (from the horse's mouth) then by  all means read this book.  For anyone who wants to know what crushed  Albania, why it's in the mess that it's in, this book is a good place to  start.	2000-08-05
US	52761040	R1TAD101WLHFNF	1566630398	312918773	The Night Visitor: And Other Stories (Jungle Novels)	Books	5	34	35	N	N	Stories of Mexico before Disney and Taco Bell	To say that B. Traven captures the essence of old Mexican life outside the  big cities, coming from a reviewer who has yet to set foot in Mexico, might  seem a bit rich !  But I've heard that his novels and stories are required  reading in Mexican schools.  That may give more than just a little insight  into what Mexicans think of his work.  The pleasingly-written stories are  well-constructed around themes of interest to everybody---history, poverty,  work, love, dreams, animals, and humor.  Throughout, Traven's respect for  the common people of Mexico shines like an unwavering beacon, though he  never idolizes them.<br />The title piece, about an American stuck away  in remote jungles, who reads his way through a library of rare books on  pre-Columbian Indian civilizations, and reaps an amazing result, cannot  fail to grip readers.  Stories like \\"Effective Medicine\\", \\"Assembly Line\\"  and \\"The Cattle Drive\\" reflect Mexican life as seen through American (or  foreign) eyes, while \\"Burro Trading\\" is one of the most humorous stories  I've read in a long time.  Mexico is no doubt in the grip of the 21st  century already---traffic jams, pollution, the Internet, privatisation,  globalisation, and sweeping political change.  These stories might harken  back to a simpler time of less justice but less uncertainty, when social  status was more fixed and Mexican ways had not been sullied by MTV,  MacDonalds, and Madonna. Mexico is no doubt better off nowadays.  The view  of Mexico provided by the history of the Conquest and by the broad strokes  of Rivera, Orozco, and Sequeiros is not the only one.  This group of  stories, by a talented, somewhat-mysterious writer, ought to be much better  known than they are because of their attention to smaller details on a more  daily plane.  I strongly recommend THE NIGHT VISITOR.	2000-08-03
US	52761040	R2Y3I18W9XDD4C	0930350820	889200170	A New England Girlhood: Outlined from Memory (Outlines from Memory)	Books	3	12	20	N	N	A Pressed Flower Whose Scent Has Long Gone	People in the following three categories will find this book interesting and useful :  1) feminists interested in 19th century women's lives and attitudes; 2) researchers into New England morals and values as expressed  in exhortatory literature of the 19th century and 3) those who are studying  lower middle class American education and intellectual interests as found  in New England mill towns and the Mid-West in the mid-1800s.  The author  began life in the town of Beverly, Mass., which happens to be just across  the water from my home town.  Thus, I found a certain interest in her  reminiscences about the town and countryside in the 1820s and `30s.  Lowell, Mass., where the author worked for some years in the period  1835-1845, was at the time the site of a new industrial experiment, with  Yankee farm girls brought in to provide a work force that was better  educated and more disciplined than most.  At the end of that period, the  owners decided they could do better with less-educated immigrants who would  not strike for their rights.  America has changed so dramatically in the  111 years since this book was written that I doubt if most people would  find A NEW ENGLAND GIRLHOOD too engrossing.  It is chock full of moralizing  homilies about life, beauty, religion, and high-minded industry.  The  smallest unpleasant thing is totally avoided, there is not the tiniest  complaint or hint of rebellion.  Earnest Christian fundamentalist sentiment  suffuses the pages along with didactic glances at everything.  More than  once I was reminded of Chinese Communist textbooks, so terribly sincere  were her chapters.  There is still a modicum of interest in all this if you  read the book in the light of \\"Wow!  What a change a century can make in a  culture !\\"  Can you imagine a modern woman writing chapters on hymnbooks or  uplifting poetry in her autobiography ?  Yet, given the times, this was not  strange, however so it appears today.  In short, I cannot say that this  book will enthrall too many people---its concerns and style are just too  remote from the early 21st century.k will enthrall too many people---its concerns and style are just too  remote from the early 21st century.	2000-07-27
US	52761040	RITABYXVGT2DK	0874517362	653347751	Amoskeag: Life and Work in an American Factory-City (Library of New England)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	&quot;Been through the mill, and the mill's been through me&quot;	Nineteenth century American travellers waxed enthusiastic or properly melancholic amidst the ruins of Europe.  Writers such as Henry James often contrasted the youth and vigor (and innocence) of America with old, tired  Europe.  None of them could have imagined that less than a century later,  the busy New England mills that turned out huge quantities of shoes,  textiles, and useful products of all kinds would be silent, weed-strewn  ruins.  When I look around at cities like Salem, Lynn, Lowell, Lawrence,  and Brockton, Mass., at Manchester and Nashua, New Hampshire, at a dozen  small towns in Maine, I realize that I grew up during the fall of a whole  civilization.  I saw the tail end of it.  Today so many of those thriving  factories and mills have been razed to the ground, turned into condos or  specialty shops, or even, into museums of industrial history.<br />AMOSKEAG  is the story of one textile mill, once the largest in the world, along the  banks of the Merrimack River in New Hampshire.  The story is told through  37 interviews after an introduction of thirty-odd pages.  The effect is  most immediate: you feel as if you had lived the whole experience, grown up  around these people.  The reader is taken through the lives of management  to the world of work---the varieties of tasks and social interactions to be  found within the giant factory.  Then we get an idea of family life, how  the factory permeated every aspect of existence, and finally of the  strikes, shutdowns and rising costs that eventually drove the mill out of  existence (or rather, the whole textile industry to other states and  countries).  The text is punctuated by numerous black and white photographs  which add to the atmosphere of \\"bygone days\\" that emanates from the whole  book.  If you are looking for a book on industrial history or early 20th  century New England, you must read this one, it's unforgettable.	2000-07-25
US	52761040	R3I4VQ3SH8RANG	0870237993	667974388	Clambake: A History and Celebration of an American Tradition (Publications of the American Folklore Society)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Of Clams, Cooking, and Ambivalence	As a New Englander born and bred, for me there's nothing better than a plate of finely fried clams with a bottle of beer and some tartar sauce or perhaps, a dish of fragrant steamers to be dipped in clam juice and butter.  So I had this gut feeling (sorry) that I was going to enjoy Neustadt's  CLAMBAKE.  I wasn't wrong either.  Here, in a most user-friendly format,  you can find everything you ever wanted to know about clambakes---the  history of clambakes in New England; 19th century customs such as Squantum  feasts, political banquets, and Forefather's Day; the rise of tourism and  public transportation; the manner of collecting and cooking all  ingredients, and how a particular clambake, celebrated every year in a  small community in southeastern Massachusetts, related to its participants  and performers.  Neustadt collected all manner of posters, old photos, and  magazine illustrations from the past which are scattered appealingly  throughout the text in conjunction with her own photographs.  All this is  most pleasing and I don't hesitate to recommend the book to anyone  interested in the subject.<br />The second side of the book is one in which  the author attempts to link her study of clambakes to the larger field of  anthropological theory.  As regards this aspect of the book, I think I  might have titled my review \\"To Deconstruct or Not To Deconstruct\\", for I  feel that Neustadt remained extremely ambivalent about her own profession  or at least, her participation in its peculiar rituals and behavioral  system.  She aptly points out that what people refer to as the \\"tradition\\"  of clambaking is, in fact, invented tradition which draws attention to what  was considered a \\"suitable\\" past.  She nicely concludes that the clambake  underlines the imagery of inheritance (from the Indians, from the Pilgrim  fathers) rather than the inheritance itself, it being unproven that the  Indians ever had any clambaking tradition.  So far, so good.  But, if I  were you, I would skip Chapter 7, in which she tries gamely to relate her  research to the work of all sorts of \\"heavies\\", but backs off each time,  saying that, to her, it really doesn't fit.  She is so ambivalent about  getting theoretical that one wonders why she even wrote this chapter.  (Could it be that it was part of a prior thesis ?  Part of her own  initiation rites?)  Then, surprisingly, in the final chapter, she sums up  in excellent form what she thinks it all means, connects clambakes to  identity, community, continuity, harmony. Why she needed that previous  chapter is even more questionable.  She plumps for experience over  analysis---which is great as advice for life---but doesn't cut much ice in  the arena of intellectual activity.  She remains dithering between readers  of popular folklore and an academic audience, uncertain of whom she is  writing for.  It's a strange performance in an otherwise fine book, because  you know, she wrote for both.would skip Chapter 7, in which she tries gamely to relate her  research to the work of all sorts of \\"heavies\\", but backs off each time,  saying that, to her, it really doesn't fit.  She is so ambivalent about  getting theoretical that one wonders why she even wrote this chapter.   (Could it be that it was part of a prior thesis ?  Part of her own  initiation rites?)  Then, surprisingly, in the final chapter, she sums up  in excellent form what she thinks it all means, connects clambakes to  identity, community, continuity, harmony. Why she needed that previous  chapter is even more questionable.  She plumps for experience over  analysis---which is great as advice for life---but doesn't cut much ice in  the arena of intellectual activity.  She remains dithering between readers  of popular folklore and an academic audience, uncertain of whom she is  writing for.  It's a strange performance in an otherwise fine book, because  you know, she wrote for both.	2000-07-24
US	52761040	R17P2X6F4RXQEK	0870114263	124990161	House of the Sleeping Beauties and Other Stories	Books	3	11	17	N	N	Weird old man likes to sleep with drugged women	Kawabata is a great writer, but these three stories are not his best work in my opinion.  The title piece, by far the longest in the book, is a sensitively-written story about a sad, kinky practice.  I have no idea if  it ever really existed.  It has to do with old, impotent men who sleep  (literally) with drugged, naked young women who know that they will have  \\"customers\\", but not whom, and not what they will do.  Actual sex is  completely forbidden.  Most people will not find this story erotic, though  Mishima Yukio, the famous writer, calls it that in his introduction.  The  words &quot;beautiful&quot; and &quot;poetic&quot; seldom came to my mind,  though &quot;disturbing&quot; and &quot;thought-provoking&quot; did.  The  protagonist, Eguchi, sleeps with a number of different \\"beauties\\", each of  whom reminds him of something in his past.  Also, \\"there seemed to be a  sadness in a young girl's body that called up in an old man a longing for  death.\\" (p.59)  The end is stark and brings out the inhumanity of such  fantasies or such practices.  If you like this sort of subject,  introversion in a rather sick way, an attraction to body parts separate  from the whole human, a peeping Tom version of eroticism----a style of  ailing or macabre fascination similar to that found in Tanizaki Junichiro's  \\"The Key\\" and \\"Diary of a Mad Old Man\\"----then this book is for you.  The  other two stories: \\"One Arm\\" and \\"Of Birds and Beasts\\", are also about such  lonely, introverted men, (\\"autistic\\" comes to mind), with rather unpleasant  themes.  I did not like either one.  I admit that the writing is good, the  translation brilliant; it is just my own taste in subjects.  Don't say I  didn't warn you.	2000-07-19
US	52761040	R2B8BCFT71URKL	0679762647	987818425	The Sound of the Mountain	Books	5	73	84	N	N	That's the Sound of Life, That's the Sound of Death	Kawabata Yasunari won the Nobel Prize in 1968 and this novel above all his others, in my opinion, gives readers a chance to find out why.  This is a classic of world literature, a work of genius.  It is a finely-written tale  of family, a simple story about an older man who is fond of his  daughter-in-law, though his relations with his own two grown children, son  and divorced daughter, are ambiguous.  The story line, as in other Kawabata  novels, is simple----there are no great events, no dramatic conclusions or  climaxes.  Natural phenomena---birds, animals, plants, and weather---play a  large role in setting the mood and are used as symbols throughout.  Far  from being a recurring theme, the \\"sound of the mountain\\" is heard only  once, on page 10, yet it and many other signs presage changes in life that  follow a pattern unseen by human eyes.<br />The most amazing thing about THE  SOUND OF THE MOUNTAIN is its capacity to summarize or to encapsulate family  life, the compexity of family relationships.  The only other book I know  that comes close is Christina Stead's \\"The Man Who Loved Children\\", but  that is a most verbose book whose characters verbalize nearly every  emotion, or else the author does it for them.  Kawabata's novel, however,  succeeds in portraying family life equally well, if not better, with an  absolute minimum of brush strokes.  The indecision, the steps not taken,  the regrets, the lost loves who return in dreams---all the myriad small  events from which marriages and families are constructed---flow in a way  that is both typically Japanese and universal.  Shingo, the old man, was  particularly kind towards Kikuko, his daughter in law, who \\"was for him a  window looking out of a gloomy house.\\"  \\"Kindness towards her was a beam  lighting isolation.  It was a way of pampering himself, of bringing a touch  of mellowness into his life.\\"  There is nothing so definite (or crass) as  an out-and-out love affair between the two.  Rather, there are solutions  that are no solutions, compromises that have to paper over the  disappointments.  Life goes on and Hollywood is for children.  What a  brilliant book !lutions  that are no solutions, compromises that have to paper over the  disappointments.  Life goes on and Hollywood is for children.  What a  brilliant book !	2000-07-17
US	52761040	R165MOU4BXZ1MZ	0679761063	255646884	The Master of Go	Books	4	73	75	N	N	Japanese Culture &agrave; Go-go	In 1938, a go match was played over six months in 14 sessions at several different locations in Japan.  The opponents were the grand master, Shusai, and Otake, a younger professional challenger.  Kawabata, then 39 years old,  was the newspaper reporter who covered the match for Tokyo and Osaka  newspapers.  After the war, he turned his reportage into a novel which  still retains much of the feeling of reports.  If you don't know the game  of `go', played with white and black stones on a board, or if you are not  at all familiar with Japanese culture, then this book is probably not a  good place to begin.  However, if that is not the case, then Kawabata's  subtle depiction of many themes in Japanese culture and in human life, may  give you pleasure.  The sick old man versus the young one.  Life versus  death, even.  The author wrote\\"From the way of Go, the beauty of Japan and  the Orient had fled.  Everything had become science and regulation.\\" (p.52)  Players worried about points, not elegance or dignity.  Otake represents  the new, the ambitious, the unrefined; the old master all that was  vanishing, all that Kawabata mourned.  As a novel about an arcane contest  which still can bring out all these important, even universal, themes, THE  MASTER OF GO is an amazing feat.  If this sounds interesting, give it a  try.  You definitely won't find another novel like it ! Kawabata certainly  deserved the Nobel Prize.	2000-07-10
US	52761040	R125IRU80C39TS	0679761047	987818425	Snow Country	Books	4	35	40	N	N	A Rake's Non-Progress	I studied Japanese for four years in college and as a senior, more years ago than I care to count, I read this novel in Japanese, one of only two I ever made it through.  Recently, having forgotten everything about the  novel and because I have forgotten too many characters to read in Japanese  anymore, I re-read it in English.  SNOW COUNTRY is nothing if not a strange  work.  At the risk of sounding snobbish or whatever, I have to say that it  is stranger in English than in Japanese.  Japanese allows for a great deal  of vagueness and reading between the lines.  English prefers definite words  about definite events.  So, as I read the novel again, I did wonder why I  had found it so enthralling the first time and concluded that language had  something to do with it.  Nothing is definite.  As usual, Kawabata is not  strong on plot.  An idle playboy-type (we never learn where his money comes  from) visits a resort in the mountains of Western Japan, facing the Japan  Sea, the snowiest region of the world.  He meets an offbeat sort of geisha,  Komako.  He rather likes her: she likes him, maybe more than that, but the  relationship is touchy.  Everything is extremely vague, the surroundings  are beautiful, and as always, the reader can enjoy the Japanese fascination  with the tiniest details of the natural world.  Komako, available and prone  to drink, is contrasted to the distant Yoko, a pure girl, with a beautiful  voice, who shows devotion to one man and to duty.  The end perhaps  underlines Kawabata's view of postwar society, his disappointment at what  Japan had become.  If you have read \\"Memoirs of a Geisha\\", this might be  a satisfactory antidote---not that the former was bad, but it is an  American viewpoint.  This completely Japanese view of a geisha could be  more realistic in terms of what the average geisha's life would have been  like in the provinces, far from the splendid inns of Kyoto and Tokyo.  If  you like haiku, Mondrian, minimalist photography, you would like this  novel.  If however, your taste is Faulkner, Zola, Balzac, the Russians,  then I doubt if you would enjoy SNOW COUNTRY.would like this  novel.  If however, your taste is Faulkner, Zola, Balzac, the Russians,  then I doubt if you would enjoy SNOW COUNTRY.	2000-07-10
US	52761040	R1M7WEBM5NM7B	0679762655	63176648	Thousand Cranes	Books	5	54	58	N	N	Expiation in the Summer Heat, Japanese Style	Mishima Yukio, that troubled, brilliant, versatile author of numerous great novels, said that if a Japanese writer was going to receive the Nobel Prize, it should be Kawabata Yasunari.  The latter did win the prize in  1968, four years before his death.  Both Kawabata and Mishima should be  numbered among the great writers of the 20th century, both committed  suicide, and both were Japanese.  That's where the similarity ends.  Any  novel of Kawabata's opens the deep treasure of Japanese understatement, the  minimalist style of sumi-e, haiku, and Noh theatre.  Every sentence says  less than expected, but as some people like to say nowadays, \\"less is  more.\\"  So true.  THOUSAND CRANES is brief and to many Western readers  could appear overly simple and without strong flavor.  To assume this would  be to miss the main attraction of the novel, which, admittedly, might not  be for everyone.  In delicate brush strokes, the author deftly paints the  picture of a complex relationship which would have attracted Henry James,  had he not been so stoutly Victorian in his choice of plots.  A young man  has an affair with Mrs. Ota, his father's former mistress, rejects the  meddling of a second woman, also a former mistress of his father's, and is  attracted, full of guilt and hesitation, to Mrs. Ota's daughter.  Like much  Japanese writing, the novel is full of natural symbols as well as the signs  of the seasons.  Tiny details assume great importance, take on important  symbolism----two tea bowls used by deceased lovers, an ugly birthmark on a  woman's breast----details which would be drowned in the mass of verbiage  present in most Western writing.  Tea ceremony and the delicate beauty of  old ceramics suffuse the pages.  The novel is about sex, love, guilt,  revenge, and the need for children to outgrow their parents'  transgressions. The stunning part is that these words are almost never  mentioned !  There is a belief in Japan that if a sick person can make a  thousand paper cranes (origami style), they will recover.  The title thus  refers to a healing process, though the thousand cranes appear only on a  kerchief carried by a girl whom the protagonist does not marry. This novel  is a tour de force by one of Japan's and the world's best modern writers.  If you want to try something completely different, I strongly recommend  THOUSAND CRANES.r cranes (origami style), they will recover.  The title thus  refers to a healing process, though the thousand cranes appear only on a  kerchief carried by a girl whom the protagonist does not marry. This novel  is a tour de force by one of Japan's and the world's best modern writers.   If you want to try something completely different, I strongly recommend  THOUSAND CRANES.	2000-07-05
US	52761040	R62OZ2RQBXS2G	0679760237	279143118	In Pharaoh's Army: Memories of the Lost War	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Nobody Knows the Trouble I've Been (except me)	Honesty is like \\"Nude Descending a Staircase\\".  Was she really going down ?  Maybe it was only a pose, she was really headed up.  And how nude did she get ?  Maybe the artist just imagined the last part.  But the picture  stands as a lasting monument to a certain moment.  As we strip away our  motivations for doing things, as we take account of all the moods and  history that lie behind the smallest of our actions, may we not-----even  we------get confused ?  Some people delude themselves that they are telling  the truth, even as they lie hypocritically yet again.  Some people may even  think that they ARE telling the truth, they've told those lies so many  times already. Others never peer under the surface, truth is a matter of  feelings of the moment. Honestly revealing yourself takes a lot of effort.  It's a great deal of work and probably very much of an art.  If it's an  art, then it can't be a science.  As Wolff himself says, \\"Your version of  reality might not tally with the stats or the map or the after-action  report, but it was the reality you lived in, that would live on in you  through the years ahead, and become the story by which you remembered all  that you had seen, and done, and been.\\"  May I add, humbly, that your  version would transform as you got older, as you experienced those subtle,  but long-lasting changes creeping into your very memories.<br />Yeah, well,  this book is about a guy's year in Vietnam, the training before, the  blankness and partial recovery afterwards.  It's about parents,  girlfriends, dead comrades, being a stranger in a strange land.  If that's  all you want to know, though, then this book is not for you.  A lot of guys  had that kind of experience.  But how many of them could write about it in  this perfect way?  IN PHAROAH'S ARMY is a gem because of the honesty with  which Wolff describes every feeling, every nuanced experience, sparing  himself nothing, hiding no unpleasantness of character.  Moving as it is, I  still wondered where honesty and self-revelation can finally be found,  since they are so obviously art forms.  That's the question that Wolff's  book will raise in every reader.  It is a most powerful question and this  is a most powerful book.  I could give it more than 5 stars, but that's all  there are.wondered where honesty and self-revelation can finally be found,  since they are so obviously art forms.  That's the question that Wolff's  book will raise in every reader.  It is a most powerful question and this  is a most powerful book.  I could give it more than 5 stars, but that's all  there are.	2000-07-01
US	52761040	R1YWQH8YBIEF32	1566630452	564661454	The Carreta (Jungle Novels)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	On pre-revolutionary Mexican society-----plus a simple story	B. Traven, a German leftist who fled the chaos of post World War I Bavaria for the New World, wrote many novels of Mexico, including the movie immortalized by Bogart, \\"The Treasure of the Sierra Madre\\".  This is the  first one I've read, so don't put me on your list of Traven experts.  I  have learned that this novel, THE CARRETA, is part of a series.  I hope  that the characters continue from novel to novel, but have no idea if this  is true.  If they do not, then this book is a very slight effort, in terms  of a story and sequence of events.  A young Indian man, a peon on a  hacienda, is traded off by his patr&oacute;n during a card game.  His new boss  runs a cartage company---the workers are on the road all their lives, and  due to an extreme system of debt slavery, can never escape their hard  existence.  Andr&eacute;s, the young man, finds a young woman at a fiesta and  makes her his wife.  They love, but must part when Andr&eacute;s learns that his  father, back on the plantation, has been sold to a timber cutting firm deep  in the jungles, a fate that nearly nobody can survive.  This is the entire  plot of the book.  What makes the book interesting is the great amount of  detail the author gives on Mexican life in the time of Porfirio Dias, the  dictator who was overthrown in 1910.  The land, the lives of the simple  people, Indian legends, the details of work are all depicted in beautiful  prose interspersed with considerable irony on the cruelties and injustices  of the whole system.  Some people might find the political slant not to  their taste, but how could you ignore or accept a system that kept more  than half of the Mexican people in virtual slavery all their lives ?  If  you read this book, which is set in the southern state of Chiapas, and  wonder how the Revolution changed everything, think about what has been  taking place in that very state during the 1990s.  The Indians are still in  a state of armed revolt against the landlords, who still think that the  native peoples are theirs to use and discard.  If you link the times  described by Traven and the news of today, you will find that his novel  remains entirely relevant to our times.eoples are theirs to use and discard.  If you link the times  described by Traven and the news of today, you will find that his novel  remains entirely relevant to our times.	2000-06-27
US	52761040	R1KGDYZW3VAQSP	0208015582	344302124	Albania and the Albanians	Books	3	5	6	N	N	A View of Albania from Tito's Yugoslavia	For many years, we in the West received practically no information about Albania, which, though in Europe, was more remote than Borneo or Tibet.  Thus, any book which brought that small country to our attention, that  could shed any light whatsoever on the Land of the Mountain Eagle, was  worth reading.  At the beginning of the 21st century, however, things have  changed.  Albania is open to the world, journalists and tourists can go  there freely, aid workers come and go, and many books have been written  already.  Hence, books such as ALBANIA AND THE ALBANIANS are out of date.  The author, a well-educated, Albanian man from Kosovo and a party  official in foreign affairs in former Yugoslavia, wrote this volume about  Albania in the early 1970s.  He wrote it in Serbo-Croatian---an indication  of how things have changed since then.  Even though Yugoslavia and Albania  were hardly on good terms, it seems that Yugoslav officials such as  Marmullaku could not go too far in criticizing the brutalities and outright  paranoia that permeated the Communist attempt to revolutionize Albanian  society and bring it into the modern world.  One infers that that would  have been understood as implicit criticism of the Yugoslav regime as well.  Marmullaku provides information about Albanian history, the national  independence movement, and a very interesting chapter entitled \\"The family  and tribal tradition\\" in which he admits that although Albania claimed to  have wiped out blood feuds, they still existed and, indeed, were increasing  in Kosovo.  Of course we now know that the feuds in Albania were only  suppressed by force, but once that force was removed, they returned.  Most  of the book deals with post-revolutionary Albania and is less than  forthright on actual conditions, using statistics issued by the Hoxha  regime.  The last chapter is on Kosovo---the author's view of the Albanian  position there, as citizens of Yugoslavia, sounding sadly naive or  deliberately false in the year 2000.  In general, this is a book that has  not borne up well under the attacks of time.  It can be read as an example  of what kind of information on Albania was available for much of the 20th  century.se in the year 2000.  In general, this is a book that has  not borne up well under the attacks of time.  It can be read as an example  of what kind of information on Albania was available for much of the 20th  century.	2000-06-25
US	52761040	RC028IQPQXKKD	0679725407	568288173	Ak: The Years of Childhood	Books	5	16	16	N	N	The Flavor of Childhood is Universal	I've never been to Nigeria, nor even West Africa, and though I've known many Nigerians, including a number of Yoruba, I could never say, until I read AK&Eacute;, THE YEARS OF CHILDHOOD, that I had any real idea about where they  came from.  You can read other Nigerian writers---Tutuola, Achebe, Ekwensi,  Nzekwu, Amadi---or listen to Nigerian music from Fela, Ebenezer Obey,  `King' Sunny Ade, or Olatunji---there's a vast world of Nigerian culture,  but until you've read Soyinka, you haven't tasted the real flavor of it.  Seeing that I've just confessed that I haven't been there, how do I dare to  say such a thing ?  It's because I believe that the human experience has  both particular and universal elements and Soyinka is at his best in  describing his childhood days in such a way that both are clearly present.  Childhood is a welter of impressions, small events, accidents,  misunderstandings, broken promises, smells, sounds, and feelings.  Everyone's childhood is composed of just these things.  But how about a  childhood in Abeokuta, Nigeria in the late 1930s and 1940s ?  In Soyinka's  autobiography, we appreciate the specific qualities of those years in that  place in magnificent detail...addiction to powdered milk, getting lost  because you followed a marching band, stewing a snake, dislike of being an  'exhibit', learning to love books.  Everything is told from a child's point  of view, with no attempt to be prescient after the fact.  [The thing that  annoyed me tremendously about Jean Paul Sartre's \\"The Words\\".]  Soyinka  comes across as a very honest man.<br />The first few pages are a little  bewildering, before you sink into the comfortable flow of humorous, tender,  wondering memories.  I liked the use of Yoruba expressions and sayings,  translated at the bottom of each page-if Europeans could bombard us with  German, French, Latin, etc., why not Yoruba ?  Soyinka makes no  concessions, and that's great.  Most of the famous autobiographies of world  literature have come from Europe and America.  Now Africa has produced one  to stand up with the best of them.re have come from Europe and America.  Now Africa has produced one  to stand up with the best of them.	2000-06-18
US	52761040	R2TWOSDKAY9ZD1	0853452814	327282141	Hundred Day War: The Cultural Revolution at Tsinghua University	Books	2	5	11	N	N	Much ado about nothing---blow by blow	Even if you are a China expert, or a budding China scholar, and you want to delve to the bottom of the Cultural Revolution, this offering from William Hinton may prove a little too much for you.  As for the rest of you  surfers, forget this.  William Hinton started off very well with  &quot;Fanshen&quot;, &quot;Shenfan&quot; and &quot;Iron Oxen&quot;.  He was  an American who stayed in China when the revolution triumphed, not fleeing  like most.  He approached the new regime with obvious sincerity and  recorded his experiences in a particular village with remarkable clarity,  detail, and sympathy for the overall aims of the Communists (to bring a  better life to the masses of Chinese peasantry).  But he spiralled down  with the rest of the country into the morass of violence and twisted logic  that marked the Cultural Revolution of the 60s.  Thus, he came to write THE  HUNDRED DAY WAR, a chronicle of student factions and fighting at Tsinghua  University.  Every detail is found here.  It was probably a riveting  experience for him, but some decades later, excruciatingly boring reading.  You wonder constantly &quot;why am I reading this ?&quot;  You also wonder  how all the earnestly radical participants have been faring in the new age  of money-making.  Cynical answers do come to mind.  Don't read this  one unless you REALLY need to get a blow-by-blow picture of a campus  conflict in 1960s China.	2000-06-15
US	52761040	R3BD5V1K5X8CEM	0395081726	635611267	The Hearth & Eagle	Books	3	51	54	N	N	History preserved through fiction	Marblehead today is a yuppie heaven; shiny SUVs ply the tree-lined streets, and over-ample pseudo-colonial mansions crowd their small lots.  North of Boston, \\"Marblehead\\" has become a synonym for \\"posh\\" and \\"snotty\\".  This is ironic, for I remember it in my childhood, half a century ago, a  rough town of drinkers, cursers, and womanizers who didn't give a damn for  any outsider's opinion.  Marbleheaders could be recognized anywhere by  their accent and by certain `code' words.  I still think of it in my  imagination, strong as the New England rocks that line the shores, the rain  dripping into the narrow lanes off the now long-gone elms, mournful seagull  cries over the shingled roofs of odd wooden houses by the harbor.  That was  the Marblehead I knew, full of fields, woods, ponds, and small farms;  wildflowers and butterflies; pale red starfish in the tidal pools.  Yeah,  it's gone now.  It's just a shadow of that raffish self.<br />But if you want  to know what it was, if you want to capture the flavor of this, my beloved  home, be sure to read THE HEARTH AND EAGLE, which takes you from early  colonial days, when Marblehead was a rowdy offshoot of serious Salem, to  the 1920s.  I won't advise you that this is the best novel you'll ever  read, but for sure it is the best one ever written about this town.  If  you've read it, you'll practically be able to find your way around the  winding streets that always lead down to the sea.  The author did her  research while living at 30 Franklin Street, which her imagination turned  into an inn by the name of the title.  She may not have been a local, but  she certainly captured the flavor of town and depicted a long stretch of  Marblehead history through the lives of her characters.  If my description  grabs you, get hold of this book.  Then come visit the town and see how  it's changed.	2000-06-14
US	52761040	R23UJW5BVMT523	0380578859	691495307	The Nine Nations of North America	Books	3	46	64	N	N	&quot;Writer hits homer but fails to score&quot;	Twenty years ago I read Raymond Gastil's \\"Cultural Regions of the United States\\" and found it very interesting, so when I spotted the title of Garreau's book I bought it immediately, thinking that North America was an  apter field for such researches than just the USA.  No doubt, Garreau has  some very interesting ideas.  His choices for designating the nine nations  are sound and appeal to the imagination as well.  I was especially  impressed with some of the conclusions he reached, back in the late `70s,  (the book came out in 1981, so all the research was done prior to that).  His view of south Florida and its connection to the Caribbean and South  America proved extremely prescient given the events of 2000.  The  \\"MexAmerican\\" future of much of the Southwest is coming to pass.  His  predictions about the future of hi-tech in New England and environmental  concerns in \\"Ecotopia\\" (northwest Pacific coast) also impress the reader of  two decades on.  But overall, I felt that THE NINE NATIONS OF NORTH AMERICA  fell through the cracks.  Garreau really never defines what he means by a  \\"nation\\".  Is it different from a \\"cultural region\\" ?  What are the  defining characteristics of other world nations that may resemble one or  more of the North American \\"nations\\" ?  Does the author find any  similarities ? Are economic realities often the basis of nations ? [Looking  at Africa I would say no.] Secondly, his interviews and researches are  extraordinarily diffuse, amounting sometimes to an unbelievably scattershot  approach, hoping to hit something valuable.  Time and time again, I found  myself wondering, \\"What does this have to do with defining a nation ?\\"  A  total amateur myself, who has never attempted any work of the sort, I still  felt that I could have rounded up more evidence in support of my argument  than Garreau did.  The reader often loses sight of any argument at all.  The author's style is eminently readable, pleasant, and entertaining.  He  obviously has a great sense of humor.  Whether that is enough to carry a  reader through 390 pages is up to you.as a great sense of humor.  Whether that is enough to carry a  reader through 390 pages is up to you.	2000-06-06
US	52761040	R1YPAH15WL507I	0520039483	342888675	The Remembered Village (Center for South and Southeast Asia Studies, UC Berkeley)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Warm, in-depth portrait of a Karnataka village in 1948	Neither anthropologists nor men come much better than M.N. Srinivas, who passed away not long ago.  One of the first Indians to write on the ethnography of his own country, he studied in England with both  Radcliffe-Brown and Evans-Pritchard, now deities in the hagiography of  Anthropology.  Back in 1948, Srinivas studied a village in what was then  Mysore state, investigating everything he could, from agriculture to caste  relationships, from religion to village politics.  It was the classic style  of field study.  In succeeding years, Srinivas published a large number of  important articles and several books, including \\"Religion and Society among  the Coorgs of South India\\", \\"Caste in Modern India and other essays\\" and  \\"Social Change in Modern India\\".  He never actually got around to writing  up his old village study.  In 1970, he was a fellow at Berkeley and finally  was about to finish the work.  An arsonist burned his office and all three  copies of the work.  THE REMEMBERED VILLAGE, then, is literally  \\"remembered\\" because the bulk of the work went up in flames, though some  notes were saved and the original data was in Delhi.  What emerges is a  wonderful portrait of an Indian anthropologist's time in the field, his  relationship with the various villagers, and a lovingly detailed picture of  the village itself, covering all the usual aspects of an anthropological  study.  Perhaps adversity and misfortune combined to produce a greater  work.  As an anthropologist who has worked on India for many years and as a  person who was impressed with the warmth and humanity of Prof. Srinivas  (though I only met him briefly many years ago in Australia), I strongly  recommend this book to anyone who wants to know the feel, the look, and the  inner workings of an Indian village back in the days before the Green  Revolution, television, and globalisation.  This is Anthropology without  jargon, India from the inside.	2000-05-30
US	52761040	R2O77AZVLWX3ZQ	0804710996	594004408	Old Madam Yin: A Memoir of Peking Life	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Bygone Chinese lifestyle seen through bygone American prism	I always feel suspicious of books that contain such sentences as----\\"The cook poured my second cup of coffee.  I had never been able to get him to leave the coffee pot on the table.  He seemed to feel that would lessen his  dignity.\\"  The reason for my hesitation is the slightly wry humor aimed at  someone the speaker might have asked, but didn't.  However, on finishing  OLD MADAM YIN, I have to conclude that it has some excellent points.  I  chose to read it thinking that it was an autobiography or an edited life  story by an anthropologist.  No, it is more the story of contact between an  American hospital worker in pre-revolutionary China and a Chinese woman  from an upper class family of the old school, Old Madam Yin.  The Chinese  lady has no voice, the whole book being the summary of Ida Pruitt's  observations.  As she, the author, spoke Chinese and knew China well, we  find an interesting picture of a certain style of life, the manners and  innuendoes of a bygone age in Beijing, family dynamics before Mao.  It  makes for fascinating reading, a useful source of social history, and is a  book which makes you ponder how much of Chinese culture survives into the  present even if somewhat overshadowed by the decaying but still-powerful  Communist Party, the Internet, vast movements of labor, the cementing over  of vast areas, in a noisier age of nightclubs and cars.  I would guess a  lot does survive.  It seems to me that a reader who wants to know what  Chinese think would be wiser to look elsewhere, but if you are looking for  acute observations by an old-style American lady, this is definitely the  book.  At 129 pages of non-academic prose, you can read OLD MADAM YIN  quickly, but the atmosphere will remain with you for a long time.	2000-05-30
US	52761040	R1XPBYEAULE8WU	1559704012	601326856	The File On H.: A Novel	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Suspicion keeps everyone in the dark	Two Irish-American scholars of Homeric ballads arrive in remote northern Albania to record local epic songs in the early 1930s.  Nobody has ever seen a tape recorder before.  The two men speak archaic Albanian learned  from books.  Local officials are sure they are spies.  (But why there ?)  Informers are positioned to report every move and word.  A local official's  wife longs for an affair.  Weird monks and treacherous Serbians move in.  It's a strange mix of satire and scholarship, farce and fact.  Kadare  constructed this novel on the basis of an actual American `expedition' to  the Balkans to collect ballads in order to study the process by which such  epics were remembered, forgotten, and reshaped.  Though the Harvard  scholars' efforts ended in a completely different manner, Kadare used this  seed to create THE FILE ON H.  H in this case is not like Kafka's K or Ian  Fleming's M, a nameless individual, but stands for Homer.<br />In Hoxha's  Albania, writing satire on spies and attitudes towards foreigners was  doubtless dangerous.  Kadare got away with it only because he set the novel  in the royalist period of 1928-1939, when Albania was under King Zog.  It  is an enjoyable book, though not as stunning as some of his others (i.e.  \\"Broken April\\", \\"The Three-Arched Bridge\\", \\"Chronicle in Stone\\") The  translation, too, may not be as strong as it could have been.  As an  American with some familiarity with Ireland, I found his Irish-American  characters much less believable than his Albanian ones.  Their actions and  dialogues often don't ring true.  But, as another volume in his literary  panorama of Albanian history and sentiment, this novel is well worth  reading.  It contains many flashes of the Kadare genius.	2000-05-23
US	52761040	R3C2ZC388F7KY	029273817X	831521949	Ancient Panama: Chiefs in Search of Power	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Political power in the forgotten time of golden iguanas	For me, Panama always brought to mind the canal, tales of American skullduggery, and sleazy, uniformed dictators called \\"The Pineapple\\".  The word \\"ancient\\", usually applied to such places as Greece, Egypt or India,  did not connect to Panama in my thoughts any more than it did to Wyoming.  So it was with considerable curiosity that I bought Mary Helms' ANCIENT  PANAMA.  It turned out to be a little different than I imagined.  This  book is written for a handful of specialists, not for the general reader,  not even for the fairly literate person interested in pre-Columbian history  in a seldom-mentioned part of the New World.  The style is \\"Heavy  Academic\\", the pages clogged with vast numbers of references in  parentheses, 18 pages of extensive footnotes to be found at the end.  But,  if you are searching for world-class expertise on aspects of Panamanian  culture and society in the early 1500s, you have certainly come to the  right place.  Helms has carefully amassed a great amount of useful  information on a very specific topic.  She writes of political power and  the system of chiefs that ruled the many small, rank-holding societies in  Panana at the time of  first European contact.  Because information is  exceedingly scarce, she uses (I assume) all the available Spanish sources  of the time, writers who travelled in the area a century or more later,  19th century travellers' tales, more recent ethnological work done on the  Cuna---the famous Panamanian Indian group still flourishing on the  Caribbean coast---writers on Colombian Indian societies that may have  resembled the ancient Panamanians, and even draws comparisons with  Polynesian societies that also were divided into separate ranks.  It is a  very thorough job.  Helms emphasizes that a chief had constantly to give  evidence \\"of his personal ability to wield effective power.\\"  He did so by  showing his far-flung connections to valuable goods (like golden ornaments,  slaves, pearls or textiles) and to centers of religion and metaphysical  thought.  His personal knowledge and connection to people of knowledge also  counted.  To build this argument, the author slowly takes us through the  location of various chiefdoms around Panama, their economic connections,  the symbolism of design, color, and ornament, possible mythology (described  on the basis of Cuna and other modern Indian myth), special language used  by chiefs, and finally, the wider connection to northwestern Colombia and  beyond.  At the end of the book, the author suggests that eastern Panama  and Colombia could be considered one cultural sphere and that perhaps  Colombia---the more developed portion of this area---could have been the  sources of gold products, prestige, and knowledge for the Panamanian  chiefdoms.  Maps, photos, and diagrams add to the wealth of knowledge  provided.  My criticism of this book is that it is not very readable.  The  reader must be fully committed to the subject: no \\"quarter\\" is given.  For  students of Panamanian or pre-Columbian history, this is a five star book,  but for me, it was somewhat of a chore, though I readily admit I learned a  lot.  I would have liked to know much more, but the narrow scope did not  allow for many questions.  A land where iguanas represented the elite,  while crocodiles stood for the masses deserves a more readable book.  Dr.  Helms ?o centers of religion and metaphysical  thought.  His personal knowledge and connection to people of knowledge also  counted.  To build this argument, the author slowly takes us through the  location of various chiefdoms around Panama, their economic connections,  the symbolism of design, color, and ornament, possible mythology (described  on the basis of Cuna and other modern Indian myth), special language used  by chiefs, and finally, the wider connection to northwestern Colombia and  beyond.  At the end of the book, the author suggests that eastern Panama  and Colombia could be considered one cultural sphere and that perhaps  Colombia---the more developed portion of this area---could have been the  sources of gold products, prestige, and knowledge for the Panamanian  chiefdoms.    Maps, photos, and diagrams add to the wealth of knowledge  provided.  My criticism of this book is that it is not very readable.  The  reader must be fully committed to the subject: no \\"quarter\\" is given.  For  students of Panamanian or pre-Columbian history, this is a five star book,  but for me, it was somewhat of a chore, though I readily admit I learned a  lot.  I would have liked to know much more, but the narrow scope did not  allow for many questions.  A land where iguanas represented the elite,  while crocodiles stood for the masses deserves a more readable book.  Dr.  Helms ?	2000-05-16
US	52761040	R4J7VRE06ETKB	0440331226	712734089	GREAT JEWISH SHORT STORIES (Laurel)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Everybody can find something in this collection	When a collection contains stories by such writers as Agnon, Aleichem, Babel, Malamud, Singer, and Zweig, you know that you're not going to get a bunch of junk !  Sure enough, there are some great stories in this volume,  some by people perhaps not so well known, like Joseph Opatashu and Leo  Litwak.  There are also weak links, but &quot;weak&quot; is certainly in  the eye of the beholder, I admit.  Nevertheless, I'd have to say that this  is an uneven collection and I wonder what the purpose of it was, other than  to say, &quot;Yep, we can compile a bunch of stories written by Jews and  mostly about themes which relate to Jews.&quot;  Perhaps the time for such  collections has gone by and we can now say that as people, Jews have  intimate connections to every aspect of human existence, just like everyone  else.  Is there really &quot;African-American literature&quot; which is  only of interest to African-Americans ?  Is there really a  &quot;Jewish&quot; literature ?  This book provides proof of two answers:  one is yes, the other is no.  I suppose it depends upon your  already-existing perspective.  Anyhow, if you want to read some excellent  stories, whether you are Jewish or not, try this book.  There are a lot of  five star stories here---I give the book three stars as a  &quot;concept&quot;.	2000-05-11
US	52761040	R2MCQTT799J3Y9	0941533506	569755658	Chronicle in Stone	Books	5	66	71	N	N	Everybody's got a cistern in their heart somewhere	Gjirokaster, Albania.  Not a spot that rings a lot of bells for most people.  But if you read this brilliant novel, you will never forget the place, even if you never actually get there.  Once, four years ago, I did  go there.  Square gray houses rise from the steepest, most outlandish  spots, houses made in the Ottoman merchant style of the mid-19th century,  half-fort, half-mansion.  The narrow streets wound around the hillsides  that looked out over a vast green valley, snow-capped peaks towering into  the clear blue sky.  Grape arbors and trees poked over walls, quiet  passersby disappeared into crooked alleys.  A small boy guided me to  Kadare's house.  I wished to see the cistern underneath, the one that  trapped all the raindrops that \\"recalled with dreary sorrow the great  spaces of sky they would never see again\\".  But the house was closed. The  descriptions of the house--fictional or actual--made me recall how I  imagine the house of my own childhood.  Higher up the hill, after twisting  through more lanes of stone, I came to former supremo Enver Hoxha's house,  recently turned into an \\"ethnographic museum\\".  A scorpion skittered across  the floor and I killed it.  I visited the great vaults under the citadel  where the citizens escaped the bombings.  The whole town was alive for me  because I had read CHRONICLE IN STONE.  Other great writers bring Paris,  London,  Moscow, New York, or Tokyo to life.  Kadare has put Gjirokaster on  the list of immortal towns with this volume.  It is a wonderful book of a  town and its bad times-from 1939 to after the end of World War II-through  the eyes of a boy.  In his usual style, the author weaves many thoughts,  dreams, scenes, tragedies, and historical events into a seamless whole.  It's a tour de force.  Read it.	2000-05-08
US	52761040	RU101T5YJ25ND	0472063235	615542422	The Past in the Present: History, Ecology, and Cultural Variation in Highland Madagascar	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A must-read work for serious scholars of Madagascar	Though Madagascar does not appear on the travel wish-lists of many people, nor is it the area of study most young anthropologists aspire to, it is one of the most fascinating places on the planet for travellers or for people  with interests in anthropology, religion, music, and history.  Eighteen or  twenty different branches of the Malagasy people grew up over the  centuries, each in a specific ecological niche, all of whom were eventually  dominated by the highland dwelling Merina, whose kings ruled the great  island in the 19th century.  Over the last few decades, various works have  appeared on the different Malagasy groups: Merina, Sakalava, Tanala, etc.  Kottak's book must be considered the definitive work on the Betsileo, a  large group living in the southern highlands, traditionally earning their  living by rice farming and cattle herding.  THE PAST IN THE PRESENT is a  traditional ethnography, (most data was gathered in 1966) describing in  particular, state formation (in the past), social organization, and  ceremonial life.  Kottak assembles an impressive collection of data and  makes the most of it in a rich description.  Statistics, maps, diagrams,  tables, and footnotes mark a thoroughly professional job.  If this is what  you are looking for, you are bound to find this book useful.  To understand  Madagascar from a historical point of view, as well as in the time just  after independence in 1960, the book is a necessity. Kottak studied a  district town and a village in the Betsileo area.  If you wonder what the  Betsileo thought or said about themselves or about life; if you are looking  for a more qualitative ethnography, you will not find it here.  Given that  the author did not set out to create such a book, it is unfair to criticize  him for not doing so.  I strongly recommend Kottak's work to someone who  doesn't mind wading through a mass of detail, who wishes to become a  serious student of Madagascar.	2000-05-07
US	52761040	R1JLXNLE60ORPH	3822882623	451327458	Madagascar (Photobook)	Books	1	21	24	N	N	How to Exploit People for Your Own Ends: A Primer	Having travelled in Madagascar, I was very interested to see Barbieri's book, MADAGASCAR, advertised by a bargain books dealer.  I've always been  fascinated by that faraway red island of Afro-Indonesian culture, lemurs,  and chameleons.  Since I'd read a number of good books about the place,  none of which had extraordinary pictures, I thought this book would be an  excellent addition to my small collection.  I thought wrong.<br />While I have  to admit that Mr. Barbieri is an excellent photographer, with long  experience in the world of fashion, I took strong objection to his way of  portraying Madagascar.  Some magnificent photographs of the world of  nature, some portraits, and a few pictures of unusual objects are  interspersed with what can only be described as homo-erotic photographs.  I  have nothing against that either, a Mapplethorpe is a necessary part of  modern culture.  What I DO object to is such photographs being in any way  called \\"a picture of Madagascar\\" with absolutely no personal agenda  mentioned.  This is totally dishonest.  Thus, this is a very dishonest  book.  Producing self-indulgent romantic fantasies is fine if the audience  is aware of what is being done, but to pass off such stuff as being \\"about\\"  a poor country inhabited by hospitable, cheerful people with intricate  customs and traditions, people who are extremely modest in dress and  behavior for the most part---this is an exercise in exploitation.  At the  very least we should have been told how these pictures were made.  In  colonial times, many writers and artists produced romantic works about far  off colonies.  These were then used to show how \\"happy and contented\\" the  people were under colonial rule.  In the introduction, reference is made to  Paradise !  Give me a break !  What is the agenda here ?  If someone says,  \\"Come on, man, it's just a great collection of pictures.\\" then they have  failed to grasp the cultural dialogues of the last 40 years, they cannot  see how people with technology and media access can so easily exploit those  without. I absolutely don't recommend this book.ple with technology and media access can so easily exploit those  without. I absolutely don't recommend this book.	2000-04-28
US	52761040	R2MZGY372QMENR	0226504018	626549540	Cassette Culture: Popular Music and Technology in North India (Chicago Studies in Ethnomusicology)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Taped Music Revolutionizes Indian Music Industry	If you are not interested in exploring the details of the music biz in India, turn off this site right now; this book is not connected to the Western pop scene.  CASSETTE CULTURE is a study of the impact of cassette  technology on popular music in North India.  It explores the nature of the  changes the arrival of widely-available cassettes has made on the structure  of the Indian music industry and on popular music itself.  I found it a  well-written book with an absolute minimum of scholarly jargon, though it  is an academic book.  The author does not presume knowledge on the part of  the reader and gives careful explanations of Indian musical styles,  regional cultures, and music industry details.  I found the balance between  theory and description excellent.  There is an interesting discussion of  the popular music recording scene in other parts of the world, as well as a  thorough historical look at that topic in India itself.  The problem of  piracy is dealt with in depth.  There are three basic issues that underlie  Manuel's study.  First, the nature of control of the mass media in India.  Second, the content of the mass media and how it is presented.  And third,  the effect of the content on the audience and how they use that content.  With these guidelines, he shows how the arrival of cassette technology and  cheap cassette players in the 1970s created a revolution in Indian popular  music.  By the 1980s, a transformation was underway, with the rise of  hundreds of small regional producers, as well as a few giants.  Escape from  corporate control might lead us to think that the cassette ?revolution? was  a liberating force, but Manuel points out that this is not entirely so.  The new technology has also been used to spread traditional, unprogressive,  and even reactionary, bigoted messages through India.  Cassettes have  fuelled many a regionalist or separatist movement as well as the strivings  of many an opportunistic politician.<br />I strongly recommend this book to  anyone who wants to learn more about the combination of music, popular  media, technology and culture in India, one of the great civilizations of  mankind, which seldom appears in Western media except for disasters,  murders, or horror stories .  Manuel has written a classic.  Buy it.ommend this book to  anyone who wants to learn more about the combination of music, popular  media, technology and culture in India, one of the great civilizations of  mankind, which seldom appears in Western media except for disasters,  murders, or horror stories .  Manuel has written a classic.  Buy it.	2000-04-26
US	52761040	R1LT7UJMMN5MF3	067973077X	490468631	In Southern Light	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Jungle Journeys in Brazil and the Congo	Anyone who likes travel literature will certainly not be disappointed in Alex Shoumatoff's IN SOUTHERN LIGHT.  It is a book in two parts.  In the first, he travels with a friend up a large, but seldom-visited tributary of  the Amazon, the Nhamunda, in search of any clues about the eponymous  Amazons themselves.  He finds mostly caboclos, mixed race people who live  off fishing, hunting, and a little farming when possible, and the last  remnants of the Indian peoples who lived in the region for centuries.  The  second, less-focussed journey is in the former Zaire, now Congo (again).  Though the current wars and massacres had not begun, the reader gets a  strong impression of the crumbling, decaying society that existed under  Mobutu. The author travels by truck, by riverboat, and through the jungle  on foot with some BaMbuti (pygmies).  I liked two things about this book.  First, I liked Shoumatoff's attitude towards the people he met: neither  condescending and critical, nor full of gushing admiration.  He took each  person as they came, just as he would have in his own society.  If you are  tired of the snide, superior writing style of a Theroux or Naipaul, this  could be a welcome change.  Secondly, I liked his descriptions of the  natural world of the forests, rivers, and interactions between people.  My  criticism is that both sections lack focus and sometimes the book and the  diary are a little too close together.  The Amazon section starts off with  a very fascinating description of the Greek Amazon legend and how the early  Europeans were influenced by it, how the Indians may have fed it back to  successive explorers once they realized what the intruders were looking  for.  But, since Shoumatoff found no vestige of the legend in his travels,  there really was no point to setting up this \\"straw woman\\".  He was  basically \\"messing around\\"; travelling to see what he could see.  That  would have been enough I feel---travel for its own sake is just as good a  reason as any.  Nothing much holds the Zaire section together either: it's  just a bunch of impressions.  I happened to like them, but some people  might feel the book is a little diffuse.  Criticisms notwithstanding, IN  SOUTHERN LIGHT is well worth reading.  I recommend it to anyone looking for  a different sort of travel book, one not about the pastel, effete joys of  Provence or Tuscany.eason as any.  Nothing much holds the Zaire section together either: it's  just a bunch of impressions.  I happened to like them, but some people  might feel the book is a little diffuse.  Criticisms notwithstanding, IN  SOUTHERN LIGHT is well worth reading.  I recommend it to anyone looking for  a different sort of travel book, one not about the pastel, effete joys of  Provence or Tuscany.	2000-04-21
US	52761040	RH9XHGNSWLW8L	0140445595	478505803	Manon Lescaut (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	22	27	N	N	&quot;Girl from Wrong Side of Town Jinxes Silver Spooner&quot;	Many years ago I read the classic Chinese novel \\"Chin Ping Mei\\" in which overindulgence in sex, wine, and food occurs so regularly that by the end of the hundreds of pages, the reader is glutted and uninterested in more.  This, people say, was the Buddhist message of the novel-that the sensual,  material world is meaningless.  MANON LESCAUT reminded me of that novel  because the single moralizing theme-the wasted life of a talented young  aristocrat who falls madly in love with a girl of dubious  character-dominates so completely that nothing else really matters.  The  various characters, while potentially interesting, are never built up much,  due to subordination to the moral lesson.  No matter how many times the  beautiful Manon betrays her impetuous lover, he forgives her and indulges  in his passion more than ever. His father and friends despair.  Jail,  murder, betrayal, gambling, prostitution, and eventual exile are only some  of the results this passion delivers.  The denouement of the novel occurs  in far-off New Orleans, about which, it seemed to me, the author had  absolutely no idea.  An opera was later written based on this minor classic  of French literature.  I could not say that it is a wonderful piece of  writing, nor that many readers will thrill to its ups and downs.  You can  read it in a short while; it will hold your attention and you will have the  satisfaction of being able to say you read it.  But, at the end of the day,  French literature offers a lot more than MANON LESCAUT.	2000-04-19
US	52761040	R2967B9VWM5WJB	0156451581	869561732	The Investigation	Books	3	34	36	N	N	Highly original mystery will intrigue the curious	For years I'd heard a lot about Stanislaw Lem as a great Polish science fiction writer, maybe one of the world's greats in that field, but I hadn't ever read him.  Therefore, when I saw a book of his at a yard sale, I bought it.  The price was certainly right.  But, I must report that I still  haven't read any of his science-fiction because THE INVESTIGATION turns out  to be one of his few works in other genres.  But what genre is this ?  You  might say it's a detective novel, but \\"metaphysical detective fiction\\"  would describe it better.  How many other books fit into the same field ?  Good question.  Here we find bodies removed from graveyards and mortuaries;  sometimes they turn up elsewhere, sometimes not.  Gregory, a suspicious  policeman, is assigned to catch the perpetrator.  But is there a  perpetrator ?  Discussions of statistics and probability, as well as  mysterious speculations, pepper this novel, which takes place in cold,  foggy, rainy or snowy conditions in England, a country that does not emerge  very realistically from the background.  I was constantly reminded of  Ismail Kadare's novel \\"Doruntine\\" by the similar philosophical nature of  the writing which marks both books, by the rain and cold, and even by the  names of characters-Stres in the Albanian book, and Sciss (the  statistician) in Lem's.  I can't say that this is a characteristic Lem  novel because it's the first I ever read.  But a detective novel that asks  \\"what if everything that exists is fragmentary, incomplete, aborted, events  with ends but no beginnings, events that only have middles, things that  have fronts or rears, but not both, with us constantly making  categories..... ?\\"  cannot be considered average.  Lem's novel may not be  to everyone's taste---especially if you are looking for sex, violence, or  lots of action---but it is unusual and well-written.	2000-04-18
US	52761040	R3FI935J2TMSC8	0671888021	937318659	Lame Deer, Seeker of Visions (Enriched Classics)	Books	4	71	73	N	N	The life and philosophy of a wise man	I once lived on the Yakima Reservation for a couple weeks, back in 1964.  This constituted my entire experience with Native Americans until thirty years later I met a few Navajo and Pueblo people on a trip to the  Southwest.  So even though I worked as an anthropologist for many years, I  had absolutely zip to do with Native Americans.  I was aware that there is  a huge amount of junk written and shown in movies about them; that they  have been either lionized or demonized out of all proportion in America and  in the world beyond. I always felt that \\"ethnic cleansing\\" was not invented  in the Balkans.  Only when such writers as Silko, Momaday, Alexie, and  Erdrich emerged did I discover the other world of the Indian people, only  the film \\"Smoke Signals\\" rang true to me.  So, I wasn't sure, when I picked  up LAME DEER: SEEKER OF VISIONS, co-authored by John (Fire) Lame Deer and  Richard Erdoes, whether I was getting some kind of phony, \\"awesome-dude !\\"  worshipful portrait of a Lakota \\"medicine man\\" or not.<br />Not to keep you  waiting any longer---this is a wonderful book on several levels.  First, it  contains the life story of Lame Deer, a Lakota man born in South Dakota in  1903 at the absolute nadir of Lakota history.  It tells how he grew up,  surviving relentless hostility by local whites, went through many ways of  life, had numerous escapades, and finally turned towards the traditional  wisdom of his people, becoming a wise elder, knowledgeable in many aspects  of life.  He has that wry Indian humor, so different a personality to what  was always presented by Hollywood.  Nobody can read this book and not be  impressed by this man.  The second level of this book is that it presents  Lakota culture from the point of view of a Lakota steeped in it over many  decades, not the interpretation of it by an outside scholar.  You will find  chapters on the sacred sweat bath, on the holy pipes of red stone, on the  meaningful symbols, on the yuwipi ceremony, the sun dance, the peyote  church which came from elsewhere, the heyoka (sacred clowns) and more.  Lame Deer wanted to tell the world about Lakota ways and get this all  written down to preserve it for the generations to come of his own people.  On a third level, this book reflects a very attractive cooperation between  two people from backgrounds that could not have been more different: a  Lakota man from the prairies of South Dakota and a Vienna-born refugee from  Nazism, an Austro-Hungarian in the true sense of that multi-cultural  empire.  Richard Erdoes only introduces himself at the end; Lame Deer talks  throughout the whole book.<br />The editing and proofreading could have been  tighter in my 1972 edition-a lot of passages appear twice or more, for  example-and that's why I gave this book four stars, but it is a five star  book for students who want to read about the inside view of the world of  another culture, it is a five star book for someone particularly interested  in knowing Lakota culture and thought, and for anyone who still thinks that  Indians were or are \\"primitive\\" people.  This is a book that speaks to the  common humanity of all of us under the four corners of the sky.n dance, the peyote  church which came from elsewhere, the heyoka (sacred clowns) and more.   Lame Deer wanted to tell the world about Lakota ways and get this all  written down to preserve it for the generations to come of his own people.   On a third level, this book reflects a very attractive cooperation between  two people from backgrounds that could not have been more different: a  Lakota man from the prairies of South Dakota and a Vienna-born refugee from  Nazism, an Austro-Hungarian in the true sense of that multi-cultural  empire.  Richard Erdoes only introduces himself at the end; Lame Deer talks  throughout the whole book.<br />The editing and proofreading could have been  tighter in my 1972 edition-a lot of passages appear twice or more, for  example-and that's why I gave this book four stars, but it is a five star  book for students who want to read about the inside view of the world of  another culture, it is a five star book for someone particularly interested  in knowing Lakota culture and thought, and for anyone who still thinks that  Indians were or are \\"primitive\\" people.  This is a book that speaks to the  common humanity of all of us under the four corners of the sky.	2000-04-02
US	52761040	R9YOA3YWB1E4I	0881334049	530661399	A Street in Marrakech	Books	5	67	68	N	N	A woman's tale of acculturation in a Moroccan neighborhood	I read this book many years ago, back in 1982, to be exact.  It has stayed with me all these years because of its warm humanity, its fine description and painstaking details about the slow building of friendship and understanding between an American woman and her female Moroccan neighbors  in the Rue Tr&eacute;sor, a small street in Marrakesh.  I used it in conjunction  with other works on Morocco to teach anthropology courses--such works as  Geertz' &quot;Islam Observed&quot;, Rabinow's &quot;Doing Fieldwork in  Morocco&quot;, Charhadi's &quot;A Life Full of Holes&quot;, Maher's  &quot;Women and Property in Morocco&quot;, and Dwyer's &quot;Images and  Self-Images: Male and Female in Morocco&quot;.  All of these books portray  some aspect of Moroccan society, some more anthropologically rigorous than  others.  While Fernea's book can be read purely for pleasure, it gives an  excellent picture of what struck an American as different about Moroccan  society, what cultural differences were most evident for her.  If a reader  can get hold of the BBC series &quot;Disappearing World&quot; program  called &quot;Women of Marrakesh&quot;, that makes an excellent companion to  the book.  A STREET IN MARRAKECH is a down to earth, interesting volume  that will hold your interest and provide an excellent insight into another  culture.  I strongly recommend it.	2000-04-02
US	52761040	R1VWKVBGXSNO3W	0374255725	625547964	The Seance: And Other Stories	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Tales of the world I never knew and never will	Thanks to my grandparents, who came to America in the first decade of the 20th century, I grew up and have had a good life.  Thanks to my grandparents, I didn't become a piece of ash or a few tossed out bones in  an Eastern European field at the age of 2.  Wars are wars; they've occured  throughout human history, but in most of them, whole civilizations didn't  disappear.  But the Eastern European Jewish world is gone forever.  I might  belong to the same gene pool, but compared to the characters in Isaac  Bashevis Singer's stories, I'm as American as apple pie.  Irish-Americans  can discover their roots in Ireland, Chinese-Americans in China, and so on,  but not me.  My cultural roots are gone forever.  The only way I can learn  them is through reading literature written by Singer, Shalom Aleichem,  Isaac Babel and others who describe that vanished world.  So, obviously, my  interest and pleasure in reading such wonderful tales as appear in THE  SEANCE and OTHER STORIES is all the more.  Never mind my personal reasons.  These amazing stories, by a Nobel Prize winner, will stay with you for a  long time.  The strange, sad characters afflicted by poverty and by life,  bring us face to face with common human personalities of all times and  places, while also depicting the conditions and peculiar relationships of  Jews in Poland too.  Magic, religion, animals, thieves, rabbis,  prostitutes, mystics, Holocaust survivors, Talmudic scholars, prisoners,  books, butchers and shopkeepers crowd the pages.  In each story, you find  pathos and tragedy, happiness and satisfaction, tensions and  transformations.  Two of the stories, \\"The Seance\\" and \\"The Letter Writer\\"  must rank with the best stories I have ever read; none of the others are  bad.  If you have never read Singer, this is an excellent book to start  with.  If you have, you know what I am talking about.  This is the great  writer at the top of his form.	2000-03-20
US	52761040	RYD47UL64UUPR	0198215630	718055860	The Kuril Islands: Russo-Japanese Frontier in the Pacific	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Solid work about a seldom-heard of island chain	Hidden by fog and the vagaries of history from the eyes of the world, the Kuril Islands have never featured on many travellers' itineraries nor can I think of a single novelist that took them for a backdrop.  In fact, I have  never seen another book about the place.  No matter.  John J. Stephan has  written a comprehensive book which covers most topics possibly of interest  to the reader.  While his subtitle pertains to the Russian-Japanese rivalry  over the island group, THE KURIL ISLANDS supplies a satisfying amount of  information in a readable style.  The few photographs, while not brilliant,  complement the text well and I have a feeling they were not so easy to come  by.  Six maps guide amateur readers like me and for the professional, there  is an extensive bibliography with (probably) all sources in Japanese,  Russian, and English.  The subjects covered include geography and  prehistory (including fascinating data on the original inhabitants), the  exploration by Russians, Japanese and Dutch, and then various aspects of  Kuril history since the 17th century, seen through the prism of  Russo-Japanese rivalry.  Fascinating details emerge about the WW II period  as well as spying activity in the 1950s.  In short, if you are looking for  information about the Kuril Islands, or you are just curious to learn about  an unknown corner of the world, you have come to the right place.	2000-03-14
US	52761040	R3SE8UKXDR23DU	0805053115	235559666	The Jaguar Smile: A Nicaraguan Journey	Books	2	8	12	N	N	Well-written but inevitably lacking	I &quot;saved&quot; this book for several years, thinking it would be another Rushdie book to savour.  When I finally read it, I felt that it was mere journalism, OK, maybe well-written journalism, but....  I did not  find the flavour of Central America (though I have never been to  Nicaragua), but rather the observations of a keen mind in a situation that  was quite unfamiliar.  The resulting book, I fear, shows that  unfamiliarity.  I thought, &quot;Yes, Rushdie, from another Third World  country with a certain style of contradiction, would understand Nicaragua  and the revolutionary process with a special eye.&quot;  I think the latter  (process) turned out to be largely true, but not the former (Nicaragua).  I  would recommend this book to all authors who might feel that they could  produce an excellent book on a place they know little about.  Travel  writers are excused, because they write about travel, not necessarily deep  insights.  But a major novelist ?  I thought it would be better.	2000-03-14
US	52761040	R2LG1Z82JL55CD	0231078692	986447791	All the Mothers Are One	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Hindu mythology, family relationships + psychoanalysis	After some 35 years close connection to India, in personal and academic terms, I feel I have a fair grasp of Indian culture, religion, and family life.  Anyway, if I'm not a world expert on such large areas of knowledge,  I can claim to know more than the guy in the street in Boston or Lancaster.  However, I never specialized in psychoanalysis.  That is the dilemma for  readers of this book.  Unless you are an expert in both these fields--a  specialist really-you are going to find ALL THE MOTHERS ARE ONE pretty  rough going.  This is the epitome of a specialist's book; meant for a  handful of people in North America, Europe and India.  If you are looking  for easy reading, forget it.<br />  On the other hand, if you want to read  a difficult, but very intelligent, well-constructed book, and are willing  to tackle subjects that you may not know so well, this is a challenging,  interesting book that can provoke a lot of thought and shake up a few of  your preconceived ideas.  Kurtz begins with Santoshi Ma, a slightly  unusual form of the Indian Mother Goddess, and notes that really, she is  the same as all the other mother goddesses; that Hindus see her that way,  even if Westerners are more interested in her individual characteristics.  From there, he goes on to describe a particular \\"common psychological  profile\\" for Indian Hindus, stressing over and over that to focus solely on  the natural mother-child relationship is mistaken in terms of Hindu  culture.  Hindu children ideally (and often really) are raised by several  \\"mothers\\" in a joint or extremely-close knit family and their ties to their  natural mother are not at all the same as in the West.  Hence, `all the  mothers are one'.  From here, Kurtz goes in several directions, perhaps a  bit too diffusely.  First, he connects the psychology developed through  parent-child relationships and in the wider family life to analysis of  Hindu mythology.  To tell the truth, I had a hard time swallowing this  part, finding it all too reductionist.  It is possible to read a lot into  mythology: others have tried to use it to prove different things.  Secondly, and much more fruitfully in my humble opinion, Kurtz endeavors to  develop a new theory of psychoanalysis, more suited to Indian culture than  the standard Western model.  He rejects any attempt to cling to a  \\"universal\\" system of psychological development a la Freud or a la Jung,  which as he points out, defines other cultures' psychology as pathological  or abnormal because it doesn't resemble our own.  He says \\"In the absence  of the approved Western mode of child rearing, all diverse cultural  practices come off as too much or too little of a good thing.  Whatever is  foreign to the classic notion of proper child rearing thus appears  pathogenic.\\"  [p.52]  Kurtz suggests that \\"the family group, and not  merely the individual mother and her child, lies at the core of this  suggested model of Hindu child rearing.\\" [p.60]  In his drive to set the  study of psychoanalysis in India on a new tack, the author re-interprets  such well-known writers as Carstairs and Kakar, pointing out where, in his  view, they have gone wrong.  In a later chapter he critiques two other  well-known writers too, Obeyesekere and Spiro. In the last chapter he makes  some interesting observations on the relevance (or non-relevance) of his  findings for American society.  It is all very thought-provoking to a  reader not so familiar with the arguments.  (That would include almost  everyone.)  It seemed to me that his great weak point is lack of his own  data, either anthropological or clinical.  This volume is basically one of  interpretation and reinterpretation.  A more solid grounding in field work,  with cases familiar to him first-hand, might have produced a less \\"in your  face\\" kind of book.  Nobody can accuse Kurtz of lack of breadth or paucity  of ideas, though.  If you are ready for an academic challenge, read it.  This book is going to be a classic in the field, no doubt.to be a classic in the field, no doubt.	2000-03-10
US	52761040	R12CTVBQE37FS	0306806975	930938403	The Discovery And Conquest Of Mexico	Books	5	34	35	N	N	On the spot reportage from 16th century conquistador	Several decades ago, as a college sophomore, I was assigned to read Bernal D&iacute;az' work as part of a Latin American history course.  The title did not give me much hope.  I imagined having to force myself to sit at a desk  night after night in order to finish the book.  To my great surprise, once  I began to read this incredible eye-witness account, I could not put it  down.  Still, some 38 years later, Bernal D&iacute;az' story, as one of the  soldiers who accompanied Cort&eacute;s, remains forever as one of the best books I  have ever read on any subject.<br />Vivid, eye-witness description of the  whole story of the Conquest of Mexico in 1519 will rivet you to the pages,  if you have even the slightest sense of history or desire to imagine  strange events in faroff places.  Here is the tale of how the Spanish  soldiers, led by Cort&eacute;s, despite tremendous odds, toppled an ancient  civilization, destroying it utterly, and began a new society that would  eventually become modern Mexico.  Where else are you going to read words  like these, describing the Spaniards' first arrival in Tenochtitlan, which  would become Mexico City ?  \\"When we saw so many cities and villages built  both in the water and on dry land, and this straight, level causeway, we  couldn't restrain our admiration.  It was like the enchantments told about  in the book of Amadis, because of the high towers, temples, and other  buildings, all of masonry, which rose from the water.  Some of our soldiers  asked if what we saw was not a dream.\\"  Alliances, intrigues, battles,  retributions, strange gods and the clash of utterly different cultures fill  this amazing book.  If you have any fondness for history, if you have any  curiosity about vanished civilizations, if you would like to ponder about  Fate with more substance than usual (!), then Bernal D&iacute;az is your man.  Do  not pass this book by.	2000-02-22
US	52761040	R1CEOUZ1WOMV6G	0452255953	535077019	Under the Volcano	Books	2	45	75	N	N	Volcano exudes much smoke, little lava	The first time I ever went to the movies, Bambi's mother said, &quot;If you can't say anything nice, don't say anything at all.&quot;  While that may be a national dictum here in America, it's not particularly helpful  when writing book reviews.  Readers of this review may feel that I'm too  negative, too critical, or just trying to &quot;look smart&quot;, but what  to say when you really don't like a book ?  I think I could write two  reviews of UNDER THE VOLCANO.  The first would be for people under 30 who  haven't read a lot of &quot;great&quot; literature.  For such readers,  especially if they are interested in the wandering thought swirls of people  under the influence of great amounts of alcohol, this could be a decent  novel of the 4 star variety.  There are certainly some brilliant passages.  The concept is unusual, the small-town Mexican setting vividly portrayed.  These readers can pick up (or get impressed by) large numbers of extremely  rare words in the English language--reboant, tabid, winze, floriferous,  plangently, crepuscular, imbricated, lithurge, syncope, etc.---as well as  numerous passages which will test their knowledge of Spanish, French, or  German.  When you are just setting sail on the great ocean of literature, a  book like this might prove a thrilling ride, so maybe you should give it a  try.  Read another review or two.<br />If you are over 30 or have read a good  amount of &quot;classical&quot; literature, then I have to warn you,  Lowry's novel reads like F. Scott Fitzgerald or Hemingway in writing  school---before they learned how to cut things down.  Joyce and Faulkner  got away with run-on sentences containing clauses that had absolutely  nothing to do with the original topic, and that can be effective in  anyone's work, but Lowry ain't no Joyce or Faulkner.  It's a very youthful  book, despairing youth perhaps, youth overshadowed by a coming war, by the  futility of action at such a time, but youth nonetheless.  Though adults,  the characters resemble youth too much.  They lack a certain resigned  cynicism or sense of irony, they are still sincere, ill-focussed, and  petulant about the past.  Finally, this book lacks much of a plot.  The  &quot;action&quot; takes place in the last third of the book only.  I grew  tired of messing about in the minds of Hugh and Geoffrey.  It may be, as  people say, a novel about the breakdown of values in the 1930s and '40s,  but it is most of all a work that needed refining, a work that attempted to  be too much, that lost its way in the flood of words.the characters resemble youth too much.  They lack a certain resigned  cynicism or sense of irony, they are still sincere, ill-focussed, and  petulant about the past.  Finally, this book lacks much of a plot.  The  &quot;action&quot; takes place in the last third of the book only.  I grew  tired of messing about in the minds of Hugh and Geoffrey.  It may be, as  people say, a novel about the breakdown of values in the 1930s and '40s,  but it is most of all a work that needed refining, a work that attempted to  be too much, that lost its way in the flood of words.	2000-02-13
US	52761040	R30D3PZF7TIJVU	0195017137	508177563	To Hunt in the Morning.	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Well-written, sensitive, and interesting ethnography	I read this ethnography more than 20 years ago, but it has always stayed with me.  At that time I lived and worked in Australia, where study of Amazon peoples never loomed large, so I don't know if Siskind's work was  more popular in North America.  I have never met anyone else who read this  book, but that is the world's loss.  What impressed me about TO HUNT IN THE  MORNING was the author's sensitivity and realism toward the Sharanahua, a  small group of &quot;pacified&quot; Indians living in the Amazon forest of  eastern Peru.  She went there to study certain problems in the area of  medical anthropology, but her book brings the whole experience alive.  Siskind covers such standard topics as kinship, household, village, and the  social change that took place after their &quot;submission&quot; to the  outside world.  This well-written, clear volume also covers shamans,  healing, ritual, and interesting aspects of interpersonal relations.  There  are a number of photographs.  I especially liked the author's depiction of  the unequal relations between the Sharanahua and the Peruvians of the small  river towns; she did not hide from this troublesome theme by describing  only jungle life.  But most of all, I remember her most poignant words,  &quot;The romance of anthropology is to find somewhere else a culture less  trammeled than our own.  The reality of anthropology is to take part in  learning to break its confines.&quot;  At some time during anthropological  field work, if you do it wholeheartedly, you come face to face with  yourself and ask the fateful questions, &quot;Who am I ?  What kind of  person am I ?&quot;  Should you try to impose your views on others ?  Or  should you help them to achieve what they want even if you doubt its worth  ?  If you want to read a solid ethnography or just an interesting book  about a faraway culture, a book that looked at women's issues when that was  not so much a la mode, written by a person who asked the tough questions,  read TO HUNT IN THE MORNING.read TO HUNT IN THE MORNING.	2000-02-09
US	52761040	R3SI0RQHI3D6KD	0802713394	214668017	Zarafa: A Giraffe's True Story, from Deep in Africa to the Heart of Paris	Books	3	9	16	N	N	&quot;Necked Came the Stranger&quot;----a tall, but true story	If you think about history books as beer, then this one is definitely 'Bud Lite'.  You're thirsty to read a good book, so you reach for ZARAFA.  You chug it down.  Hmm.  Definitely liquid but not much of a kick.  Well, OK,  who could resist buying a book about a giraffe ?  Not me, who always loved  those weird-looking creatures.  But I like well-organized books of history  too, and I fear that this is not one of them.  It's a kind of &quot;cabinet  de curiosit&eacute;s&quot; as found in the France of the Enlightenment, but in the  early 21st century, I feel we might expect something deeper, something that  gave us a story to hold on to.  Perhaps, to return to beer, a drink that  would quench one's thirst, not only just wet the whistle.  Editing is a  problem.  The same information is repeated in many places, and on p.140-141  even a line is repeated.  This reveals a certain hastiness.  Michael Allin  must be congratulated on a great idea, a nice collection of illustrations,  and some pleasant writing.  I would certainly try his next book, because I  think he has what it takes.  ZARAFA, however, does have certain failings.  The book jacket promises &quot;a fairy tale for grown-ups&quot;, but fairy  tales are not usually so diffuse.  You can read this book in a few hours,  but if you are looking for information about giraffes, about the historical  period concerned in Egypt, France or the Mediterranean, don't expect much  here.	2000-01-31
US	52761040	RIK9W79I4TPJW	0841502420	947169121	In Search of Ali Mahmoud; An American Woman in Egypt.	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Within and without---a voyage of discovery	Vivian Gornick lived with an Egyptian physicist for six months in Cambridge, Mass.  They broke up but she kept wondering what made him the way he was.  She decided to go to Egypt to see his family and try to understand that small fraction of Egyptian society (upper class) that they  represented.  She went with a contract to write a book.  If you think you  can imagine a Jewish woman going to Cairo in 1971 and living with an Arab  family, forget it.  You can't.  This is a very sensitive, intelligent book  which brings to the fore the basic humanity of one Vivian Gornick, whoever  she may be.  (Seems she has written a lot of books, judging from the  entries here, but I've never heard of her except for this book.)  Perhaps  Ms. Gornick never finds Ali Mahmoud, but she certainly gives a very  close-up picture of his family and friends, exaggerating neither faults nor  virtues.  Perhaps Ms. Gornick never found Ali Mahmoud, but she did find  herself.  While the description of the whole process can get a bit gossipy  at times, in the end the book is deeply worthwhile as that rare kind of  book in which the author openly reveals her own  mistakes, flaws, and anger  along with the portraits of the others, the foreign 'subjects', thus making  herself part of the story rather than just an &quot;unseen  observer&quot;--detached and uninvolved.  Though the title resembles many  others--books by Americans who wandered here and there around the  world--few, if any, are so shatteringly honest about what happened to them  in the societies they visited.  This person really was IN Egypt, not just  getting her photo taken riding a camel by the pyramids.  Certain stylistic  tendencies may rub you the wrong way, but you can't fail to be fascinated  by her experience.	2000-01-28
US	52761040	R3TWXM60UU37UY	0375700943	417034486	The Three-Arched Bridge	Books	5	21	23	N	N	When legend catches you in its snare	The monk Gjon Ukcama, narrator of this rain-swept tale of the 14th century Balkans, says at one point, &quot;...like all the affairs of this world,  this story was both simpler and more involved than it appeared.&quot;  This  sentence could sum up the book.  In one way, you can read it as a simple  tale of how a bridge was built; beginning with medieval machinations,  certain unforeseen setbacks, a sacrifice, and ultimate success.  A second  approach to the novel is to look at it as a little-known historical period  brought to life through a legend-like tale---the decline of Byzantium, the  subsequent rise of many small principalities in the Balkans together with  the ever-rising crescendo of Ottoman power from the East, the new  commercial combines directed from the Italian states and other countries  further west.  A third way of looking at THE THREE-ARCHED BRIDGE is to  think of it as an allegory of Albanian history, showing Albania as one of  those many small countries to which history &quot;happens&quot; without  their having any say-so.  In a fourth way, this is a tale about change in  any period of human history.  Can there be major changes without someone  paying a steep price ?  A person here, a social class there, an entire way  of life over there....Kadare's story move with dark inevitability.  Finally, you can read this novel as being about life and death: people  struggle to bridge the gap, but the two worlds--of the living and of the  dead---remain separate.  The legend of an old Albanian bridge tells us  this.  We can't penetrate further.<br />A Christian monk, writing in the 14th  century, might have seen the Turks as a threat, though animosity between  Rome and Byzantium was worse than between Islam and Christianity.  That is  not to say that everyone at the time did see them like that.  Many  Christian peasants of southeastern Europe preferred to live under the  less-rapacious, better-organized Ottomans.  Many even gladly converted to  Islam.  So, although the Turks are portrayed as menacing in this novel,  even as symbolic of death and disaster, I would like to point out that  Albanian history has been re-written in the 19th and 20th centuries to suit  those who opposed the decayed Turkish rule four centuries after the initial  conquests.  We are still dealing in legends, in other words.  Kadare does  not vary from nationalist history, which has to be seen for the legend it  is.  Other than that minor criticism, this is without doubt a five-star  book.  My only question is---when is Kadare going to get a Nobel Prize ?although the Turks are portrayed as menacing in this novel,  even as symbolic of death and disaster, I would like to point out that  Albanian history has been re-written in the 19th and 20th centuries to suit  those who opposed the decayed Turkish rule four centuries after the initial  conquests.  We are still dealing in legends, in other words.  Kadare does  not vary from nationalist history, which has to be seen for the legend it  is.  Other than that minor criticism, this is without doubt a five-star  book.  My only question is---when is Kadare going to get a Nobel Prize ?	2000-01-24
US	52761040	R24ANQURZ9AS3L	0684825007	78239645	The Italians	Books	2	17	44	N	N	If you like books about unicorns, read this	I'll put my opinion first, so there won't be any doubt in your mind.  I don't believe that you can write useful books about national character.  Is there really such a thing as &quot;national character&quot;? People are  just too different, too unpredictable. How well can you predict the  behavior of the people closest to you ?  How well can you predict what  people in your own country will do ?  Would every Italian, if they could  write well, have written the same book as Mr. Barzini ?  I seriously doubt  it.  So what we have in THE ITALIANS is one man's views on the conglomerate  nature of 50 million Italians.  After reading it, I felt even more strongly  that such books, though possibly entertaining, are a waste of time.  An  informative book about unicorns--but do they exist ?  Anthropologists have  been concerned, for many years, in getting the &quot;inside view&quot;--the  view of a culture as seen by the person within it.  While Barzini is  indisputable Italian, he tries to visualize Italians as seen by foreign  visitors, then explain to those of us not lucky enough to travel there, why  they are as visitors see them, or why they are not as foreigners may think.  This is not a successful gambit.  Cultures are based on many general  factors--like history, socio-economic patterns, religion, family,  etc.---but the specific results are just that, specific.  Barzini covers  many topics--the importance of spectacle and giving an illusion of  something rather than actually having that quality; the family vs. the  state; Italian modes of achieving success; the north-south split; Sicily  and the Mafia; and last, the tragedy of Italy's long domination by  foreigners.  But nothing really connects.  There are only superficial,  scattered impressions, nothing very concrete to grasp.  The reader is left  with a handful of stereotypes.  Barzini is at his best when describing the  lives and modus operandi of particular characters in Italian history.  These sections were well-written and interesting.  But his portrayal of  Italian &quot;character&quot; is fuzzy, contradictory, and ultimately,  unconvincing.  Finally, if you are a lover of lists, you will thrill to  this book, because there is a list on nearly every single page.  Myself, I  got pretty tired of those lists.  If you want to know something useful  about Italy, read another book.  If you just want entertainment, which  might support any stereotypes you have about Italians, then this book could  be for you.well-written and interesting.  But his portrayal of  Italian &quot;character&quot; is fuzzy, contradictory, and ultimately,  unconvincing.  Finally, if you are a lover of lists, you will thrill to  this book, because there is a list on nearly every single page.  Myself, I  got pretty tired of those lists.  If you want to know something useful  about Italy, read another book.  If you just want entertainment, which  might support any stereotypes you have about Italians, then this book could  be for you.	2000-01-19
US	52761040	R1OB4HS4URB96D	0525069925	20930023	The book of sand	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Borges hits his private bullseye yet again	I don't know much about Jorge Luis Borges the man; I'm not an expert on him as a writer either.  However, I do know that nobody can write a certain kind of story better than he.  His specialty is to describe, in short,  succinct sentences of utmost clarity, situations of eerie strangeness,  earthy gaucho confrontations, or encounters with arcane religious figures.  THE BOOK OF SAND is another volume of such stories that range over many  centuries and thousands of miles of geography.  Some stories appear to be  ancient legends, others to be autobiographical, but all, I would say, are  total figments of a superb imagination.  If I knew more about the writer, I  might know if he had a kind of tongue-in-cheek humor or not.  In a few  places, just a few, some sentences have the ring of earnest or forced  whimsy--a sort of wrong note in a string sonata.  But, if intentional, then  I have misjudged.  &quot;The Night of the Gifts&quot; is a classic gaucho  tale combined with the element of coming of age.  &quot;Utopia of a Tired  Man&quot; is a gem, which would probably grow on readers as they get older,  but which at any age packs a punch in its mere seven pages.  If you have  ever read Borges, you will certainly like this collection.  If you haven't,  this might be a good place to begin, a vintage selection of the work of one  of the 20th century's great writers.	2000-01-06
US	52761040	R10XOCQSH2MPO1	1566562937	130048720	Samarkand (Interlink World Fiction)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	&quot;The Red Violin&quot; meets Omar Khayyam on board the Titanic !	Well, OK, maybe my title is stretching things a little, but not by much.  This is a very original novel which risked getting out of control, but did not.  Only a very skilled writer could pull things together the way Amin  Maalouf has done in SAMARKAND.  The title refers to the ancient Central  Asian city, now in Uzbekistan, where the novel opens with Omar Khayyam, the  renowned poet (also mathematician and astrologer), receiving a large blank  volume from a high city official.  Omar spends his life filling it with  verses and with his accumulated wisdom.  Others write his biography in the  margins.  Like the violin the the movie &quot;The Red Violin&quot;, the  book of Khayyam's work ties together an unlikely collection of characters  to be found in Central Asia and Iran during the 11th and 12th centuries, as  well as in late 19th and early 20th century Iran and Istanbul.  Americans  play a prominent role.  There is romance, there is suspense and the Titanic  is really in there !  I was surprised by the strong feeling of suspense--my  desire to know what happened--because the main characters are not that  well-developed in a conventional literary sense, yet, as with the  protagonists of legends and tales, we identify strongly with them.  The  details of history of the earlier period are little known, but Maalouf  takes the basic facts and turns them into a novel that recalls Persian  miniatures.  Princes, ladies, assassins, and ministers prance across the  pages, colorful, larger than life, always doomed.  Love, success, power,  faith, and intrigue--all destined to become dust in this magic shadow box  of the World.<br />I can't say that Maalouf's writing reminds me of anyone in  particular.  This book is one of a kind.  It's an enjoyable, readable novel  that I recommend to anyone who doesn't mind absorbing a lot of foreign  names and new cultural concepts.	2000-01-05
US	52761040	R2HD2IBS3ZAMJS	0670110523	803266322	Agotime	Books	5	11	11	N	N	How the Gods Migrated from West Africa to Brazil	In Gleason's richly-descriptive novel, we are introduced to Agtime, a beautiful former queen, too intelligent to be tolerated by her dead husband's son, now turned King of Dahomey.  She is thus sold into slavery  and shipped off to Brazil.  The first section of the novel describes her  life in Dahomeyan culture, with all its rich ritual and cruel history,  following her career down to the Atlantic shore, where she is rowed out to  a waiting Brazilian slaver in an open canoe, after having been branded on  the breast.  The second section of the book is entitled &quot;Middle  Passage&quot;; the final section takes place in Brazil.  While you can read  the novel as a painful journey through exotic cultures and distant times,  written in beautiful language, it is something more, a most pleasing,  literary work of history and anthropology-in-fiction.  What was the  ultimate fate of Agtime ?  How did she die? The answer is bound forever to  the fact that African religion is today alive and well in every Brazilian  city and village.  The African gods are twinned with Catholic saints and  who is to tell which is in front ?  How did this synthesis occur?  How did  African culture come to the New World--Brazil, Haiti, Cuba, the West  Indies, and the USA--and become the powerful force that it still is ?  Read  this book for a deeper understanding of the tragedy of West African  history, for one of the great human tragedies.  This volume is a perfect  companion to Bruce Chatwin's &quot;The Viceroy of Ouidah&quot;, concerning  the same period and locations, but speaking from the African viewpoint,  unlike Chatwin's.  Frank Yerby's novel, &quot;The Dahomeyan&quot; too,  though not as strong, fits together with Gleason's powerful novel.  If you  are interested in either West African or Brazilian history, in the religion  known as Vodun ('voodoo') with its mythology, or in a generally thoughtful,  original novel, read this book.  It is one of my favorites of the last 20  years.	2000-01-01
US	52761040	R23HE1U60YJIP7	0688080936	378368955	Ottoman Centuries	Books	5	116	121	N	N	Why did Constantinople get the works ?	Covering 622 years of history in exactly that many pages is no joke, especially when your subject is as vast as the Ottoman Empire, that began with Osman in the year 1300 and shuffled off the record in 1923, when the  man who became known as Ataturk shipped the last sultan into exile.  To  write about so much history is necessarily to choose certain topics to the  detriment of others.  Lord Kinross made his choices, and though I will  argue with him over this and that, the result is certainly a splendid book,  which must be called the classic history of the Ottoman Empire---for lay  readers.  Here are no compilations of dry statistics, no detailed analyses  of agricultural production or shipbuilding techniques to confound the  layman.  Not a single footnote &quot;mars&quot; the pages, nor are  references to other writers more than a handful.  Kinross inserts few dates  to confuse the reader, though I could have used some more enlightening in  this direction.  His prose is wonderfully smooth, his passage from one  topic to the next, fluid.  He brings up the big picture again and again,  even providing an excellent summary of his ideas in the epilogue.  Maps and  interesting engravings pepper the pages.  I looked forward to reading this  book for years: I was not disappointed.  However, certain caveats must be  mentioned.  First and foremost, this is a history that seems to have been  written on English and French sources only.  Thus, while I can definitely  attest to its readability, I can't be sure of its accuracy.  Second,  Kinross' choice of subject is strictly limited.  He portrays the succession  of sultans, from the dynamic first ten, to the usually poor-performing,  last twenty-five.  He covers the various wars, rebellions, and coups in  clear, graphic prose and he concentrates on the administrative patterns of  the different periods of the Empire, rightly praising the early network of  Christian-born officials that brought the standard of government to a level  far beyond anything pertaining in Europe at the time---creating such an  atmosphere that for centuries, European peasants preferred to be ruled by  the Ottomans than by their own, more grasping, unpredictable rulers.  Diplomacy and the many treaties entered into over the years also get  intelligent treatment, and an occasional foray is made into economic  development.  There is still a great deal missing.  If you are interested  in general Ottoman culture, literature and the arts, religion, or daily  life, this is not the book for you, these subjects are hardly touched.  Other areas too are strangely neglected---discussion of the Turkish rule in  North Africa and Asia is left out in favor of Europe.  The building of the  Suez Canal is mentioned only in passing.  Pan-Turkism rates only a couple  small paragraphs and names such as Ziya Gokalp do not appear.  World War I,  Gallipoli, the fighting in Mesopotamia, etc. are all glossed over with  incredible speed.  However, as I said before, with such a vast topic to  cover, the author had to make some choices and I am just quibbling about  them.<br />I strongly recommend this excellent book to any reader wishing a  solid, well-organized, readable history of the Ottoman Empire, one of the  most fascinating (and long lasting) formations of human history.  And by  the way, you WILL learn why Constantinople got the works.l  far beyond anything pertaining in Europe at the time---creating such an  atmosphere that for centuries, European peasants preferred to be ruled by  the Ottomans than by their own, more grasping, unpredictable rulers.   Diplomacy and the many treaties entered into over the years also get  intelligent treatment, and an occasional foray is made into economic  development.  There is still a great deal missing.  If you are interested  in general Ottoman culture, literature and the arts, religion, or daily  life, this is not the book for you, these subjects are hardly touched.   Other areas too are strangely neglected---discussion of the Turkish rule in  North Africa and Asia is left out in favor of Europe.  The building of the  Suez Canal is mentioned only in passing.  Pan-Turkism rates only a couple  small paragraphs and names such as Ziya Gokalp do not appear.  World War I,  Gallipoli, the fighting in Mesopotamia, etc. are all glossed over with  incredible speed.  However, as I said before, with such a vast topic to  cover, the author had to make some choices and I am just quibbling about  them.<br />I strongly recommend this excellent book to any reader wishing a  solid, well-organized, readable history of the Ottoman Empire, one of the  most fascinating (and long lasting) formations of human history.  And by  the way, you WILL learn why Constantinople got the works.	1999-12-26
US	52761040	RM8ARYAOR4G6P	1561310654	505740661	Broken April	Books	5	41	43	N	N	The ultimate novel of the blood feud in Albania	Blood feuds have existed in many parts of the world throughout history.  The USA, with its Hatfields and McCoys, is no stranger to the custom either.  The practice seems to run most deeply in remote, mountainous areas  where tribal societies cannot provide a universal system of justice to  cover everyone.  The code of the blood feud develops to handle murder  cases.  Nowhere (that I ever heard of) did the system evolve into such an  intricate traditional code of laws as in the mountainous highlands of  Albania.  There, the Kanun, or Law of Lek Dukagjini spread throughout the  lawless region now lying in northern Albania, Kosovo, and Montenegro, a  region that largely maintained its own identity and customs throughout the  centuries-long period of Turkish rule, to emerge in 20th century Europe  with the blood feud still flourishing.<br />Kadare, Albania's premier writer,  has written a vivid, dark novel that not only captures the details of  highland Albanian life in the 1920s, but also shows the ultimate tragedy  for a society that allows murder to follow murder, inexorably and  unchallenged.  A couple from the more urbanized, less-traditional lowlands  go for their honeymoon into the highlands, riding in a horse-drawn  carriage--a great luxury for the highlanders.  The man, a writer, tends to  romanticize the blood-soaked traditions of his country's remote regions.  At the same time, Gjorg, a young highlander, who has killed a man in  revenge for his brother, is given a month's truce before he in turn will  become a target.  He can expect a bullet at any moment after April 17,  hence his April is broken into safe and dangerous parts.  His fate  intersects with those of the literate travellers and the book comes to its  inevitable ending.  For a novel that explores seldom-seen territory,  written in a terse, but beautiful style, please read this book.  Since the  end of communism in 1991, the blood feud has returned to Albania, still  largely lawless in its mountain areas.  This book is no fossil.n areas.  This book is no fossil.	1999-12-22
US	52761040	R1ZYEG5G3GVR55	0708914616	729501895	An African In Greenland (U) (Ulverscroft Large Print Series)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	The fascinating story of a true 20th century adventure	Modern times mean modern means.  Our contemporary adventurers always tote an amazing array of technology with them, or they rely on the backup of millions of dollars worth of equipment.  Heading off to the stars  eventually will involve the work of thousands of people.  We always knew  where the first balloonists around the world were, even their altitude.  The Vikings never had that advantage, nor did the explorers of the Amazon  nor the Micronesians as they sailed across the vast Pacific.  Here is a  story of a real, one-man adventure that started in the 1960s.  A teenager  in Togo, West Africa, Kpomassie grew up in an African village family.  After a close encounter with a python, he was destined to become a priest  in the traditional religion.  His destiny was changed, though, the day he  found a book on Greenland in a Christian bookshop.  Utterly fascinated, he  determined to travel to the far north to live with the Eskimos himself.  This volume is the wonderful story of how he did it.  It took eight years  of effort to work his way across Africa to France, then ultimately, to  Denmark from where he embarked on a ship to Greenland.  Most of the book  tells of how he lived, worked, hunted, found romance, ate and drank with  the denizens of the frozen north, all told with an African perspective.  &quot;...the way we were stuffing ourselves with food and swapping stories  reminded me so much of Africa...&quot; (p.118) If \\"white man looks at the  natives and pities them\\" is not your bag, then this is the perfect  antidote. Kpomassie blends in so well, he thinks of staying there for the  rest of his life, even learns to eat raw whale meat that splintered like  ice in his mouth.  You will never find another book like this.  Buy  it !	1999-12-11
US	52761040	R2L6EEB2IDII9U	0679781587	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Curious Cultural Mix which Makes an Interesting Book	To know what a geisha's life is like---or indeed the life of any person in a culture different from our own---there are four possible categories of  writing one could choose to read.  First, a book by a geisha herself.  This  would be translated from Japanese, but would be couched in purely Japanese  terms; a view from within the experience and within the culture.  I don't  know if any such books are available in English.  Secondly, a book about  geisha life by a Japanese writer who lived within the culture, but did not  experience geisha life first hand.  Although such books may exist in  English, most of them might be parts of wider novels translated from  Japanese.  Thirdly, you could choose to read Liza Dalby's 'Geisha'---the  examined experience of an American anthropologist who became a geisha.  Though she entered the world of geisha life, she did so as an American and  as one who knew her position there was not permanent.  And finally, you  could select a novel about geishas by a non-Japanese, a novel like this  one.  These four varieties of writing each offer a certain truth and a  certain flavor, each unique in its way.  If you find intriguing a novel  about a Japanese woman in a traditional occupation, set in the 1930s and  1940s (for the most part), written by an American man in the 1990s, be sure  to read this book.<br />MEMOIRS OF A GEISHA might not be the greatest novel I  ever read.  No.  But I really enjoyed the feeling of 'an inside look', even  though I knew that Golden had never been a geisha, nor was he writing from  a Japanese point of view.  It is his excellent effort to do so that  captures me.  A lot of the novel really portrays the feeling of a young  girl's gradual transformation into a sophisticated geisha, her hopes,  fears, and the catty rivalries that must have prevailed in such a life.  The last 80-90 pages cannot sustain the steady revealing of customs and  behavior that make most of the novel so interesting.  We descend into a  soap opera, albeit of a good class.  I sympathised with the author in that  he had to present a story along with his fascinating description of geisha  life.  Also, he was forced to choose between American dialogue that  resonated with largely American readers and a more Japanese-based dialogue  that would have reflected more realistically the tone of what geisha might  have said.  Though he decided in favor of the former, I think he made the  right choice---witness the success of his novel.  The story of the geisha,  Sayuri, is not especially gripping; suspense is a minor element in this  novel, and perhaps the ending is a little trite, but if you enjoy walking  in other worlds, if you want to imagine what geisha life was really like,  then I strongly recommend that you get this novelp opera, albeit of a good class.  I sympathised with the author in that  he had to present a story along with his fascinating description of geisha  life.  Also, he was forced to choose between American dialogue that  resonated with largely American readers and a more Japanese-based dialogue  that would have reflected more realistically the tone of what geisha might  have said.  Though he decided in favor of the former, I think he made the  right choice---witness the success of his novel.  The story of the geisha,  Sayuri, is not especially gripping; suspense is a minor element in this  novel, and perhaps the ending is a little trite, but if you enjoy walking  in other worlds, if you want to imagine what geisha life was really like,  then I strongly recommend that you get this novel	1999-11-29
US	52761040	R278RNBA0SX58V	0345335899	490070527	Ozma of Oz (Wonderful Oz Books)	Books	5	46	48	N	N	The best of a great series	Though I first read this book nearly 50 years ago, it still remains one of the best books I have ever read.  Adults may feel that it is a kid's book, and of course it is perfect for kids, but believe me, it can be enjoyed by  people of any age.  All you need is love of a good story.  For many years  Ozma was my heroine--I dreamed that I would meet her somehow, somehow be  transported like Dorothy to the Land of Oz.  Though these dreams faded, I  still often think that this book might be the favorite book of my life.  Dorothy's new adventures, the rescue expedition from Oz that crosses the  Deadly Desert, and the spooky confrontation between good and evil in the  caverns of the Nome King.  The Oz characters have accompanied me through  life.  Try them---you will never forget them.	1999-11-23
US	52761040	R2IIDB1ZMSFOJL	0451522516	587225106	Elmer Gantry (Signet Classics)	Books	4	35	36	N	N	Ageless portrayal of the rise of a hypocrite	A lot of Sinclair Lewis can be read as social history in our days at the turn of the 21st century.  Social mores and the whole tenor of society have changed dramatically since the days of his major works.  But ELMER GANTRY  still reads like a story of our times.  Though it covers a period roughly  stretching from 1902 to 1926, and America has been transformed since then,  the basic idea of the novel---how a man, selfish, ignorant, bullying, and  posing as a 'regular guy', can fool most of the people most of the  time---is still very much relevant to us. Business was the heart of America  in Lewis' day, and it still is.  But a career model drawn from that sphere  could be used in many other walks of life.  ELMER GANTRY is about a man who  uses religion and a Protestant church to rise socially, to get and abuse  power for his own ends. From Elmer's evangelical college days with his  drinking, womanizing, total lack of ability or interest in studies, and his  lying and maneuvering to get what he wants, to the stunning but realistic  conclusion to the book, Lewis paints a vibrant portrait of an unprincipled  climber ; a man who will change any opinion, betray anybody, and do  anything to get ahead.  If we consider the sagas of TV evangelists in our  days, the difference between their revealed hypocrisies and those written  by Lewis is startlingly small.  The sole difference was that in the 1920s,  there was no television for Elmer Gantry to exploit.<br />  Certain  sections of the book read better than others--it is not of uniform  quality---and sometimes you wonder why Lewis inserted a chapter here or  there.  I think particularly of the two chapters on the fate of Frank  Shallard, Gantry's alter-ego.  They seemed to be an afterthought, and the  point was brutally taken, but for what purpose other than shock ?  On the  other hand, Lewis' use of the colloquial language of the times and  inclusion of thousands of minor details of life in that era reveal a whole  world which might, in the absence of ELMER GANTRY, have disappeared from  our consciousness.  On the whole, this is a powerful novel about an  unscrupulous, offensive scoundrel which still resonates well in our day.  The Gantrys of this world are endless.  Unfortunately.which might, in the absence of ELMER GANTRY, have disappeared from  our consciousness.  On the whole, this is a powerful novel about an  unscrupulous, offensive scoundrel which still resonates well in our day.   The Gantrys of this world are endless.  Unfortunately.	1999-11-21
US	52761040	R1QC2BOU3AL7L8	0520067401	964643709	Khubilai Khan: His Life and Times (English and Chinese Edition)	Books	3	22	29	N	N	A book on a Mongol conqueror should have more zap	OK, so maybe Morris Rossabi was right not to speak of this great Khan as &quot;a most excellent barbarian&quot; as if he emerged from some &quot;sandal and Vandal&quot; Hollywood epic.  But, this historical figure  lived amidst some of the most colorful, interesting times (not to mention  extremely bloody ones).  A little more pizzazz could have livened up the  biography of an undoubtedly important character in world history.  Rossabi's book is competent, it is scholarly, it is well-organized, it is  impressively wide-reaching in its use of English, French, German, Italian,  Russian, Chinese, and Japanese sources (and the author seems to have some  knowledge of Mongol and Tibetan too).  Nobody could fault such a book for  incompleteness.  Certainly I am not qualified to spot any inaccuracies.  We  learn the antecedents of Khubilai Khan, how he emerged from the welter of  contestants for the top job, how he organized the bureaucracy, picked his  advisors, dealt with the various religions and their factions, how he  conquered the Southern Sung (rulers of 50 million Chinese), how he became a  patron of the arts, and how he tried and failed to conquer Burma, Vietnam,  and Japan.  On finishing the book, I felt sure that I had read most of the  available information on Khubilai Khan.  But....I would have liked some  insights, which I believe Dr. Rossabi could have provided.  Where can we  place Khubilai Khan in the long history of struggle between nomad and  sedentary farmer in North Asia ?  How did he stack up against previous and  later rulers ?  What were the results of the various policies he followed  and were they very different from what the Chinese had done ?  And ?  Well,  I might not be able to come up with many more possible themes like this,  but I would have enjoyed some questions and answers, to be shown a broader  picture.<br />Still, if you need a book on the life of Khubilai Khan which  is clearly written and avoids jargon---though the author does tend to  insert a few too many Mongol and Chinese terms which are useless to lay  readers---you could do worse than obtain this volume, probably the premier  work on the subject in English.nd to  insert a few too many Mongol and Chinese terms which are useless to lay  readers---you could do worse than obtain this volume, probably the premier  work on the subject in English.	1999-11-06
US	52761040	RLFRTZZP0LZ1N	1561310328	269214250	Doruntine	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Are myth, illusion, and dream greater than the State ?	Doruntine, who married in far off Bohemia, suddenly appears at her mother's deathbed.  She says she was brought by her brother.  Only thing is, he's been dead for 3 years.  This is a challenge to the Church, all  powerful in that era, which seems to be Norman-ruled Albania of the middle  age, where Catholic and Orthodox doctrines competed.  So far, only Jesus  Christ had risen from his grave.  A 'policeman' Stres, is assigned to make  sense of the incident.  While this novel may have resonated in Communist  Albania of the 1980s, with its intricate &quot;Dance of the Doctrines&quot;  and underlying family and clan rule, I felt that, just as a novel, it left  something to be desired.  I failed to care what the outcome of the case  would be.  Some scenes are excellently depicted, but compared to most of  Kadare's work, this novel is weak perhaps because it is a one-theme novel.  If you are looking for good novels, Kadare is one of the best writers alive  today, but this isn't his best by a long shot.	1999-11-04
US	52761040	R3RZGY8GLOU0LC	0813911893	548160405	Snares Without End (CARAF books) (English and French Edition)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Interesting but flawed novel of Dahomey/Benin	When you think of African writers, names like Achebe, Armah, Beti, Ekwensi, Laye, Ngugi, Ousmane, Oyono, and Soyinka come to mind.  Frankly, before picking up this book, I had never heard of Olympe Bhly-Qu&eacute;num, a  writer from the former French colony of Dahomey, which became Benin some  years after its independence in 1960.  The introduction to the book  suggests that the author was ignored in the '60s because he wasn't  anti-colonialist enough, because he didn't concentrate on that theme or on  the racism of European colonisers.  I might suggest another reason.  SNARES  WITHOUT END is a strange book because it is really two books, one of which  probably should not have been published.  The first 113 pages tell a  simple, almost lyrical tale of village life, love, and tragedy.  The second  part is a confusing mess which tries to continue the story, using a few of  the same characters, but introducing large numbers of others, none of whom  are developed.  The ending of the second part could have been dramatic, but  instead, trickles to a close, as if the author said to himself, &quot;Well,  I've got to end this someplace.  Maybe here would be good.&quot;  Though  the book is far from a literary masterpiece, the first lyrical part is  worth reading as an African view of Africa, or the African view of an ideal  family and way of life.  What is also interesting is the way this Dahomeyan  writer presents his society.  You can read the famous anthropological works  of Herskovits; you can read Frank Yerby's &quot;The Dahomeyan&quot;, or  Judith Gleason's &quot;Agtime&quot; or &quot;The Viceroy of Ouidah&quot;  by Bruce Chatwin.  All these works give an outsider's view of a fascinating  part of the world.  But by reading THIS book, you can get an insider's view  of what all the others described as outsiders.  If that interests you, get  hold of this book, but don't expect great literature.	1999-11-04
US	52761040	R3TPBL61BXU2I1	0771099916	182919255	Barometer Rising (New Canadian Library)	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Novel with an explosive subject	BAROMETER RISING is above all a novel of place and that place is Halifax, Nova Scotia in December 1917.  MacLennan is very good at evoking the  sights, colors, smells, and sounds of the city and its environs.  If you  have ever visited that small, but charming city, you would probably enjoy  reading this novel just for nostalgia's sake.  A competent, but not great  writer, MacLennan portrays pleasingly rounded characters who are not stiff  or one dimensional and weaves a plot that resolves itself in various ways  on the occasion of the huge explosion that destroyed most of Halifax on  Dec. 6, 1917, the biggest man-made explosion in history before the nuclear  age. The story is rather too neat and a little banal in the way ends are  tied up.  If five stars are for the greatest novels you've ever read, and  four for those that don't quite get up to that level, then three are for an  average, competent job that can give you a couple nights' pleasure when the  branches are scraping at the window in the winter wind.  Try it, you might  like it, but if disasters are not your bag, then avoid this book because  the main character is an explosion.	1999-10-28
US	52761040	R163ZEJT0UHHHI	0719554594	892024524	The Accursed Mountains: Journeys in Albania	Books	4	16	21	N	N	&quot;Accursed&quot; is in the mind of the beholder	As I began reading this volume, I was immediately put off by such statements as &quot;..in Albania more or less nothing worked, nothing was  available, and no one knew anything.&quot;  or &quot;duplicity and trickery  were the currency of everyday life&quot; or &quot;Cynicism was  intelligence, fairness stupidity.&quot;  And to take a final, random  example, &quot;If there was one consistent trait the Albanians shared, it  was to charge the foreigner the absolute maximum the market would  bear.&quot;  On top of such wildly general statements, the author allowed  himself the use of such words as Wop and Froggy, expressing here and there  his dislike of the strictures of political correctness.  While not entirely  disagreeing with that last point, I still don't like books that make use of  such rubbish terms that add absolutely nothing to the topic at hand.  So, I  must say that I got off to a bad start with THE ACCURSED MOUNTAINS.  I kept  reading and now I am glad I did.  In many ways the picture Carver draws is  very accurate, and somehow, despite himself, he seems ultimately to like  some of the people he meets. The further he was able to retreat into the  past, the high mountains of the northern highlands where even the  all-embracing Communism of the Hoxha years could not much penetrate, the  happier he seems and the less likely to make sweeping negative statements.  I have the ability to comment on his opinions because, strangely enough, I  was travelling through Albania at exactly the same time he  was--mid-1996---though not for as long.  I did not have any contacts at  all. The picture Carver gives of the economic situation is absolutely  true--utter desolation, back to zero.  As he had more political contacts,  he could find out more than I did, but what he wrote rang very true to me.  The politics of family, clan, and tribe had sprung back as if it had never  been gone (it hadn't)and the words 'compromise', 'consensus' and 'practical  program' seemed unknown.  Where I disagree with Carver is in the nature of  the Albanian people.  Allowing for the two facts that a) the entire economy  had totally collapsed and b)it was a Third World economy anyway, it was  amazing to me how honest everyone was.  In the weeks that I was there,  nobody cheated us, only a couple minor attempts were made even to try, and  desperately poor street vendors would return you the correct change even if  you had understood &quot;50&quot; instead of &quot;15&quot; due to poor  Albanian. Dirt poor people would insist on paying for your coffee, your  drinks; hospitality was universal.  Con-men existed, but primarily in the  world of package tourism, which, despite Carver's denial, did seem to be  getting a toehold at that time.  Carver reports roadblocks where police  extorted money from bus and van drivers every few miles (it seems).  I  travelled from north to south, east to west, on regular buses, quick vans,  taxis, newspaper delivery vans, and the train, never finding even one  instance of this, though wide travels elsewhere in the Third World make me  aware of how common it is.  Carver sees bandits on the road---oops, they  are only a bunch of refugee kids.  He almost gets shot on a desolate road  but---oops, the pistols all fire at a target set up a moment ago. The  Macedonian border was shut off but---oops, I went through it with no  difficulty.  I can easily share his feelings of anxiety--and equally shared  the experience of being warned in America before leaving that Albanians  were thieves, murderers, bandits, etc.  But somehow my fears dissolved  while his did not.  If you don't mind living with those fears, despite the  hospitality he received, the kindness of people who had next to nothing,  but shared it with him, then you ought to read this book, ignoring some of  the parts that try to make Albania sound much more horrendous than it is  (or was in 1996).  I share Carver's vision of the rising tide of desperate  Third World people who are going to overwhelm the more organized countries  in search of order and prosperity, thereby destroying what they came for.  Albania's tragedy is yet another one, sending out floods of desperate  people.  There was no need to make it worse than it is.who are going to overwhelm the more organized countries  in search of order and prosperity, thereby destroying what they came for.   Albania's tragedy is yet another one, sending out floods of desperate  people.  There was no need to make it worse than it is.	1999-10-26
US	52761040	RHID3CZESJJP6	0715610260	727059670	Curtain Calls: Travels in Albania, Romania and Bulgaria	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Chatty travelogue from another era	As one with a lifelong interest in the Balkans, and one who actually got to travel there too, I am always on the lookout for good books on the area.  So, I was happy to find CURTAIN CALLS in a bookstore in Nova Scotia.  But,  I'm afraid it is a little too light and chatty for me.  I can't say that it  is not well-written, no, the author has a pleasant style, but it's rather  insubstantial, breezy, and more than a little gossipy, with far too much  information about his various guides and mentors in the then rigidly  controlled Balkan societies.  If you like that sort of apolitical  travelogue, pretty much blow by blow, then this book could be for you.  Secondly, the whole area has changed so much in the last 20-odd years since  Gardiner wrote, that the kind of information a would-be traveller could  glean from this book would be well-nigh useless.  I feel that a person who  wants to know what the Balkans are like today---as well as one who wants to  know what they were like in the 1970s---could do better elsewhere.	1999-10-23
US	52761040	RQ041ARAGPKK3	0520067436	88119148	The Adventures of Ibn Battuta, a Muslim Traveler of the Fourteenth Century	Books	4	78	82	N	N	From Tangier to the ends of the earth and back......	Centuries-old travelogues tend to have this archaic, dusty sort of air about them.  We can't identify with the people who wrote them because the language in no way resembles ours.  This is of course the fault of those  who translate those documents.  Then too, travellers of medieval times or  earlier tended to write about things not so much of interest today.  In THE  ADVENTURES OF IBN BATTUTA, Ross E. Dunn has successfully avoided these  problems by writing ABOUT the 14th century North African traveller, Ibn  Battuta, not just translating his book.  Ibn Battuta (1304-1368) travelled  around the civilized world of his day.  Surprisingly enough for Eurocentric  folks, the term &quot;civilized&quot; only included Spain at that time.  It  did, however, include most of the Islamic regions on earth, plus India and  China.  Dunn includes chapters on Tangier, North Africa,  Egypt-Syria-Palestine, Mecca, Persia and Iraq, Yemen, Oman, and East  Africa, Constantinople, Anatolia, Central Asia, India and the Maldives,  China, Spain, and Mali---across the Sahara in West Africa.  In each, he  gives a picture of the times in that particular place, what Ibn Battuta  said he saw and what he must have seen or experienced but didn't mention.  Dunn recounts many of the Moroccan's interesting adventures, from being  jailed in Delhi to trying as a judge to forbid Maldivian women going  topless in public. Dunn also places Ibn Battuta in a framework of a  hemisphere-wide Islamic civilization and as an ambitious semi-scholar who  was perhaps not so well studied as he wanted people to believe. So, not  only is this book a record of Ibn Battuta's life and voyages, it is a very  interesting commentary on a large part of the world in the 14th century and  the life story of a particular individual.  If you like history, if you are  interested in what was happening in the world beyond Europe in the days  when &quot;knights were bold&quot; [and illiterate], read this book.  It  comes with good maps and some black and white photographs of places that  might still look a bit like what they did in Ibn Battuta's time.ps and some black and white photographs of places that  might still look a bit like what they did in Ibn Battuta's time.	1999-10-22
US	52761040	R3VP46PCGRQDOO	0813912822	728763487	The Festival of the Greasy Pole (CARAF Books: Caribbean and African Literature translated from the French)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Magico-realistic fable about Haitian dictatorship and revolt	As a political exile for most of his life, Depestre must have harbored  deep despair for the fate of his country, Haiti, forever wrapped in  oppression, poverty, and ecological degradation.  His feeling boiled over  in this novel in which hopelessness oozes from every page.  The Haitians  are valiant and resourceful, but they are doomed, they are bound to be  crushed.  THE FESTIVAL OF THE GREASY POLE is not so much a novel as a  political fable which explains, far better than an academic treatise or  newspaper article, the crushing conditions that obtained during the  dictatorship of the awful Duvalier, a.k.a. Papa Doc, who is called Zachary  in the novel, and his government, called the National Office for the  Electrification Of Souls, or NOFESO-Zacharian for short (?).  The word  &quot;Haiti&quot; does not appear in the novel, but Haitian culture,  especially its connections to the African religion sometimes known as  &quot;Voodoo&quot; or Vodun, and Haitian history are squarely in the center  of the work.  There is no explanation.  Whether all of this would be  comprehensible to a person unfamiliar with Haiti is unclear.  It may be  confusing to such readers, who, I think it is safe to assume, make up the  majority of the readers in the world.  Why did Depestre choose  &quot;National Office for the Electrification of Souls&quot; as a title ?  He no doubt had a reason, but it remains a mystery to me because I don't  know Haiti that well.<br />Perhaps some broadening of scope would have made  this a more universal novel.  The government holds a festival in which men  try to climb to the top of a greasy pole.  Can our hero do it and so show  the NOFESO-Zacharian dictatorship that its opponents can strike a blow  (however ineffectual) against it ?  That is the plot of the novel.  What  can a thinking individual do when totalitarian rulers have completely  crushed a nation?  This is the question Depestre asks.  I am not just  intellectualizing about what I may or may not understand as the point of  the story.  On page 105, the hero asserts &quot;...In the paradise where we  live, a pole smeared with s... can be President-for-Life and vice  versa.&quot;  Can the hero conquer this pole?  What would be the result of  such brave action ?  The translation could have been a little smoother.  But if you are interested in what a Haitian writer, obviously a thoughtful  man, has to say about the situation in his country in an allegorical way,  then read this book.ay not understand as the point of  the story.  On page 105, the hero asserts &quot;...In the paradise where we  live, a pole smeared with s... can be President-for-Life and vice  versa.&quot;  Can the hero conquer this pole?  What would be the result of  such brave action ?    The translation could have been a little smoother.   But if you are interested in what a Haitian writer, obviously a thoughtful  man, has to say about the situation in his country in an allegorical way,  then read this book.	1999-10-21
US	52761040	R8W909FZZUDE3	0316923354	55662545	Beautiful Swimmers: Watermen, Crabs and the Chesapeake Bay	Books	5	58	61	N	N	Beautiful book on an unlikely subject	As a kid in Marblehead, Mass. I liked to catch crabs off the rocks.  When I grew up a bit, I learned to eat them too---a very succulent food that I still love.  But, I must confess that I never thought of reading books  about them until one day I ran across William Warner's BEAUTIFUL SWIMMERS  in a college bookshop.  This wonderful work contains all you ever wanted to  know about the life cycle of one particular kind of crab that lives in  Chesapeake Bay (the kind you probably smashed with mallets if you ever went  to that area).  Surprisingly, for most of its life, the Atlantic blue crab  has nothing to do with beer.  Taking it for a focus, Warner draws  connections with the sea, the rivers, the crab-friendly environment that  produced such a wealth of the creatures, and then the people who live from  that wealth, the islanders who lived isolated for centuries, but are now  firmly within the web of modern life.  Warner tells of the marketing of  crabs, the catching of other Chesapeake products like oysters, and even of  festivals like a Miss Crustacean contest ! You can learn about esoterica  like crab pots, the Waterman's Union, the religious heritage of crabbers,  and lots more. My edition came with a number of excellent pencil drawings  of crabs, crabbers, and maritime scenes from the area.  I was disappointed  by only one thing----reaching the end of this great book.	1999-10-20
US	52761040	R3P8OWUMG6RF4Q	0812278216	415900089	Buzkashi: Game and Power in Afghanistan (Symbol and culture)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Excellent ethnography of a Central Asian game	The question is &quot;can two large mobs of men on horseback fighting over a dead calf be considered a significant cultural event&quot; ?  The answer, after reading Azoy's book,is definitely &quot;yes&quot;. Azoy lived and  researched in Afghanistan during the 1970s, just before that country's  agony of civil war excluded foreign scholars (and almost everyone else) for  good.  He was attracted to the ancient game of buzkashi as a metaphor for  the &quot;inner nature of Afghans&quot; as suggested by Afghan  acquaintances of his.  The resulting study is a most excellent portrait of  social and political competition taking dramatic form on a playing field.  Though Azoy refers to Geertz only once in his book (p.15), the whole study  can be read as a companion volume to Geertz' famous article on the Balinese  cockfight.  Buzkashi can be seen as a kind of text in which the Afghans are  saying something about themselves TO themselves.  While everything seemed  polite and restrained on the surface in Afghan society, there was a  violent, chaotic underpinning that became evident in buzkashi matches.  As  Azoy says, &quot;With the coup of April, 1978, the largest buzkashi of all  begins&quot;.  It has not yet ended.  For an interesting, well-written  ethnography that can be extremely useful in teaching anthropology---draws  comparisons to bullfights, American or Australian football, etc.---not to  mention it being a book that gives an insight into Afghan society and  politics like few others, you could do far worse than read BUZKASHI: GAME  AND POWER IN AFGHANISTAN.	1999-10-19
US	52761040	RBHN4PYELLRY	0140149937	512503302	The Women of Deh Koh: Lives in an Iranian Village	Books	5	18	20	N	N	One of the best ethnographies ever written	As a student, graduate student, and professional, I have been reading anthropology for about 40 years.  Some of that reading is necessarily in theory, in books that deal with new ideas and concepts or attempt to  overturn the old.  But, to broaden one's horizons, to keep abreast of how  people are writing, and to get material to use for classes, an  anthropologist has to read a certain number of ethnographies every year.  So, I suppose I may say, however immodestly, that I have read quite a few  ethnographies.  A lot, actually.  Of all such books that I have read in the  last forty years, I would say that Friedl's WOMEN OF DEH KOH ranks in the  top three or four.  I never read a review of it, I stumbled on it in a  bookstore, I am not an Iran-specialist.  But this is just a gem of a book.  If you want to understand the workings of an Iranian village, not from the  usual anthropological perspective of neat categorizations and summings-up  of the ethnographer's work, but from poetical prose that seems to come from  the womens' mouths, then you must read this book.  The author allows the  women to speak more than almost anyone else I have ever read.  The book  could be a novel, but it is not at all, the author defines her presence,  explains how she wrote the book.  It is divided into 12 chapters, each  devoted to a separate woman, but the others appear again and again,  fleshing out the bones of the story, making the village come alive in their  interactions.  Any student of anthropology would love to read this book and  for teachers it is an excellent ethnography to show what the field is  really all about.  If you have nothing to do with anthropology, but are  interested in Iran or, if you are just surfing around looking for a good  book, choose this one !<br />  Oh, God, if You could only have let me write  like Erika Friedl !	1999-10-18
US	52761040	R1ZEKAV85U7Q3F	9997545389	955268607	The French Portrait of a People	Books	1	2	17	N	N	Meandering, name-dropping mess !	If you are looking for an incisive, interesting book on France, click off this site immediately.  This book is impossible to read; seems to have been written for the amusement of a few friends or fellow writers.  There is  nothing to hold on to here, nothing follows in any perceptible order.  I  can't imagine how any publisher accepted this mess.  You will not learn  anything from this book except how to write a self-indulgent piece that  should be used as an example of how not to write.  That says it all.	1999-10-16
US	52761040	R28SBDDH6UPSPD	1559210222	455927961	Living Reed: A Novel of Korea	Books	1	8	33	N	N	....when she really started churning'em out	I'm no expert on Korea or Korean history, though I did live there for six months some years ago.  At that time, I learned enough about the country to realize that THE LIVING REED is a joke.  If you like soap opera, uplifting  prose about valiant people striving to overcome whatever, then this book  could be for you.  But, if you like reasonably authentic background and  depiction of central characters who are not cardboard figures, then think  twice before devoting too much of your time to such a book.  Pearl Buck had  a hit with 'The Good Earth', true.  But she tried to capitalize on that and  churned out more and more 'uplifting sagas' of this type.  OK, so maybe she  did it to increase understanding of Asia in the USA.  It was for a good  cause.  But what we are doing here is reviewing books.  This book is just  not very good.  Times have changed and it's out of fashion (happily) to  regard individuals of any one nation as particularly charged with moral  values, fighting spirit, special will power, etc.  These traits are pretty  well spread across the human race.  You will not find this observation  salient in THE LIVING REED.  The Koreans are portrayed as a nation of  heroes and heroines.  That's bunk.  They are people just like everyone  else.  However, it IS true that this is a second-rate novel just like a lot  of Buck's others.	1999-10-16
US	52761040	RY1ULDZFWYJVM	0449213927	359049784	Saturday the Rabbi Went Hungry	Books	4	26	26	N	N	Good story with a pleasing background	I am not a big fan of detective novels, but I read Harry Kemelman's SATURDAY THE RABBI WENT HUNGRY with pleasure because in addition to a mystery/murder plot (which, OK, may not have been the trickiest I ever  read)he surrounded the story with a lot of Jewish lore, cultural details of  a synagogue's inner workings, and--for me--familiar local detail.  It  certainly helps to be from Marblehead when you read Kemelman stories  because, for the most part, that is where they are set.  Like any good  author or cinematographer, Kemelman presents his characters and the locale  as a pastiche of several individuals and locations, but as he lived in this  town for close to 50 years, Marblehead is undoubtedly the fount of most of  his inspiration; the source of his observations of human life in a small  Yankee town suddenly settled by a considerable Jewish population.<br />  The story moves along very well with asides to explain various Jewish  traditions and customs.  This may have been geared to a different time and  generation, when the Jewish religion was still strange and foreign to many  Americans on the East Coast.  Certainly Kemelman's characters like to use  phrases like &quot;you people&quot; and &quot;your Yom Kippur&quot;,  phrases that I have not heard in many, many years.  Times have changed.  But this story still stands as a monument to its times, to that period when  New England Christians and Jews were still getting to know one another.  If  you know or want to know a New England town with its various characters,  pressures, and patterns, if you want to read an enjoyable story with a  Jewish background, then be sure to read this book.	1999-10-16
US	52761040	R27YZ7OAOYO0HD	0192892894	729274738	The Industrial Revolution, 1760-1830 (OPUS)	Books	4	45	47	N	N	A solid, no-nonsense book about an important subject	First published in 1948, this book has gone through many editions, the latest, as we can see here, put out in 1998.  I recently read the 1964 edition, picked up long ago at a booksale in Melbourne, Australia.  Ashton's work is probably timeless.  It is a down-to-earth, very well  reasoned history of the various historical tendencies and phenomena that  together are called &quot;the industrial revolution&quot;.  I cannot vouch  for this volume being absolutely correct.  The author does not have much  time for those who dwell on the evils of industrialization, or who want to  include class struggle in their analysis. Though I was not fully convinced  of this, still I was willing to listen.  Not being an expert in the field,  I was looking for a decent explanation or summary of the whole process.  I  definitely got my money's worth in Ashton's book.  It is well-written,  without jargon and without presumption of vast historical knowledge on the  part of the reader.  It gives you an overview of such various fields as  population growth, early forms of industry in England, the technical  innovations, capital, banking, labor unions, conditions of workers,  industrialists' clubs, and relation of agriculture to industry.  Though I  found the part about banks and interest rather rough going, it was entirely  due to my own poor understanding of the field.  My edition could have used  a map.  The shires, the rivers, and the many towns of England are not all  imprinted firmly in the brains of North Americans.  Other than that, I  would heartily recommend this book to anyone who wants to improve their  understanding of the Industrial Revolution.	1999-10-12
US	52761040	R1AYQBBKPEUA9A	0393029530	101683356	Tuva or Bust: Richard Feynman's Last Journey	Books	5	57	59	N	N	Extremely pleasant and informative book on lost land of Tuva	When I was a kid in the 1950s I collected stamps and had quite a few from a mysterious little land called &quot;Tannu Tuva&quot;.  It always intrigued me because though I could find it on the old globe we had at home  (made before the USSR swallowed the unfortunate Tuvans in 1944)I never  heard the slightest news from there, nor did I ever hear of anyone going or  coming from that little red country sandwiched between the yellow Soviet  Union and green Mongolia.  Time passed.  A lot of time.  Fast forward in  fact, forty years.  One day I saw a new book advertised--TUVA OR BUST.  I  could scarcely believe that somebody else in America remembered that  hapless little country that once issued diamond and triangle stamps with  yaks, camels, archers, and horsemen on them.  Yet, they had it at our local  bookstore.  I bought it and read it as soon as I got home.  What a treat !  I had never heard of Richard Feynman, not being a physics aficionado, but  he turned out to be a great character.  I enjoyed reading about his  years-long efforts with Ralph Leighton to get to Tuva.  They went through  all kinds of trouble and interesting side voyages.  I strongly recommend  that you read this book.  For me, reading the book was only a beginning.  I  listened to the plastic disc of Tuvan throat singing that came with the  book, and subsequently bought tapes and attended Tuvan concerts by the  group Huun Huur Tu in Boston.  I also became a &quot;Friend of Tuva&quot;.  You can find their website on the net.  I still drive around with my 'Tuva  or Bust' bumper sticker.  All of this stemmed from reading this delightful  book on a faraway, unknown country and two people's adventures trying to  get there.  A very pleasurable experience.	1999-10-11
US	52761040	R3T5ZKHO44QZSZ	0393950867	948621324	The Counter Reformation (Library of World Civilization)	Books	1	6	20	N	N	Probably not what you are looking for	Drawn by the copious and attractive illustrations, I picked up a copy of this book, which promised to educate me about a process and period of European history that I knew little about.  I had heard the word  &quot;Counter-Reformation&quot; used in college history courses as well as  seen it in many a history book, but had never really managed to grasp what  it referred to.  I thought that A.G. Dickens' THE COUNTER-REFORMATION would  be the ticket.  Unfortunately, I was wrong.  Every page is packed with  names, events, and terms referring to schools of philosophy, church  decisions, titles of men, and titles of books, the sum total of which is to  lead the reader to total confusion.  Furthermore, as it is obviously a rush  through the whole subject, you seldom meet any of these names again.  A  chapter is enough to send you reeling.  I wonder for whom the author wrote  the book ?  If it were for specialists, this book is obviously too thin,  too quickly paced, and without documentation.  No, it was not for them.  So, I suppose,(and also because it is one in the series called  &quot;Library of European Civilization&quot;) it must have been meant for  the general reader like myself.  The result, I fear, is quite appalling.  Why should anyone try to punish themselves by reading this book when there  are so many excellent histories in other areas available?	1999-10-08
US	52761040	R199QS1PEEBQ5X	0156003295	465089978	The Black Book	Books	4	73	78	N	N	Plotless in Istanbul,---but intriguing nonetheless	Nobody could say THE BLACK BOOK is a thriller, but it is thrilling writing.  An Istanbul lawyer's wife disappears.  A related columnist also disappears.  The lawyer looks for them.  That's about it.  But the search  and the thinking is the thing.  Pamuk's style blends Proust with Borges.  If you find that intriguing, read the book. Pamuk manages to combine  intimate details of life in the modern city of Istanbul with tales of Sufi  masters, long ago executioners, Ottoman pashas, and underground fantasies  with a great deal of soul-searching on the nature of human identity.  &quot;I want to be somebody else, therefore I am&quot; is his theme again,  following on from his previous work, &quot;The White Castle&quot;.  Dreams,  intertwining identities, the connection between writing and life, even  cryptograms.  This is fascinating stuff.  Though sometimes the book lags,  it always picks up again with another strange twist.  Pamuk is certainly  one of the most interesting writers working today.	1999-10-05
US	52761040	R16U838YB111XU	0312630158	135843521	Poor fellow my country	Books	2	6	14	N	N	Bazza Mackenzie meets &quot;As the World Turns&quot;---a long rave	Xavier Herbert must have had a dream editor, because he got away with publishing a 1,463 page monster that should have been cut by at least a thousand pages.  While Herbert's descriptions of action or the magnificent  landscapes of northern Australia are well-done, he doesn't know what to do  with his characters, who all come across as wooden stereotypes.  They all  'represent' a type of person found in northern Australian society of the  1930s---the silent macho Ocker, the Irish publican, the Scotsman, the smart  Jews, the arrogant Germans, the naive, superstitious Hindu, the sneaky  Japanese, the Aboriginal medicine man, the half castes, the Catholic  priest, the government bureaucrats, the supercilious British officers, the  spoiled city girl, the homosexual, etc.  Not one of them ever reveals an  iota of inner thought, so the reader is left with simple caricatures, most  of whom even talk in painstakingly spelled dialects, which, as when an  Eastern European priest gives a three page speech on Church philosophy  replete with every &quot;zis&quot;, &quot;zen&quot; and &quot;vy&quot;, can  be excruciating.  Herbert's female characters are also appallingly narrow and stereotyped---the author borders on the misogynistic.  None of them appear the least bit real.  Herbert uses a lot of Aboriginal words and phrases, the  accuracy of which might be questioned if his Hindi is anything to go by.  Herbert's female characters are appallingly narrow and stereotyped--his  picture of women verges on the misogynistic.  A half-caste boy of ten may  be endowed with great bush skills, but his disposal of his main enemies  strained my credulity to the breaking point.  Herbert's tendency to kill  off characters when he has no more use for them, or doesn't know how to  proceed, is also a sign of over-ambitious writing.  I didn't like this book  for another reason.  Herbert makes repeated calls for an independent  Australia.  I would hardly argue with that; it's a positive point.  But in  his search for what an independent Australia might look like, he flirted  too much with fascism, rejecting only because of its violence and  anti-Semitism.  Is that all that is wrong with fascism?  If you are  looking for a good novel, this is definitely not it.  But to be fair, POOR  FELLOW MY COUNTRY does have one virtue.  Herbert's ideas about Australian  society, Australia's past and possible future are interesting and at the  time of publication (mid-1970s) practically unique.  One can read this book  as a kind of (overlong) polemic on the evils of the white Australian  relationship to the land and to the Aborigines.  That is the only reason I  would read this book.  Believe me, it is a long, long slog.t in  his search for what an independent Australia might look like, he flirted  too much with fascism, rejecting only because of its violence and  anti-Semitism.  Is that all that is wrong with fascism?      If you are  looking for a good novel, this is definitely not it.  But to be fair, POOR  FELLOW MY COUNTRY does have one virtue.  Herbert's ideas about Australian  society, Australia's past and possible future are interesting and at the  time of publication (mid-1970s) practically unique.  One can read this book  as a kind of (overlong) polemic on the evils of the white Australian  relationship to the land and to the Aborigines.  That is the only reason I  would read this book.  Believe me, it is a long, long slog.	1999-10-04
US	52761040	R1V86VCQ4PTW0S	0465087604	445649978	Tropical Gangsters: One Man's Experience With Development And Decadence In Deepest Africa	Books	5	43	43	N	N	Best book ever written on Equatorial Guinea	This is really an excellent book on all levels and I am very glad to have found it.  As a former Peace Corps Volunteer I could empathize with the author's trials and tribulations in trying to pull off some development  work in a badly mis-governed country as well as his obvious liking and best  wishes for the people he met.  From this book you get a very clear and  down-to-earth picture of a) Equatorial Guinea, one of the forgotten corners  of the world, b)the development game played by donors and recipients,  experts, expats, local bureaucrats and dictator's toadies and c) the  problems the world, collectively, faces because poorer countries need help  but richer countries don't really know how to deliver it.  I finished the  book wondering, as ever, if the whole development game is hopeless in all  countries with autocratic or kleptocratic rulers who care not a whit for  the welfare of their own people. &quot;Gangsters&quot; exist amongst the  Western aid people too, they are not endemic merely in the Third World.  The author was most certainly not one of them.  TROPICAL GANGSTERS is a  clear, well-written book, one of the best on the development process I have  ever seen.  I highly recommend it.	1999-09-27
US	52761040	R1FD76VRSPNWZ5	0805004998	285796967	The Man Who Loved Children: A Novel	Books	5	154	162	N	N	Deep insights into human nature but overlong	Many years ago I happened to ask a student of mine in Melbourne, a mature woman whom I didn't even know very well, what was the best book that she'd ever read.  She replied that it was certainly Christina Stead's THE MAN WHO  LOVED CHILDREN.  I was stunned because I had never even heard of the  author.  Eight years later, in the middle of a howling Patagonian  wilderness, I traded some bad novels with an Australian traveler for that  very book and read it immediately with great anticipation.  No doubt this  is a great book.  The depth of psychological characterization of each  member of this painfully dysfunctional (older vocab.=messed up) family is  truly amazing.  The slow building up of each character absorbs the reader,  the ultimate disappointment of all the relationships is a marvelous  antidote to the idealistic optimism that prevails in Hollywood and beyond.  Still, I felt that the author could have cut some sections, or done away  with some extraneous side descriptions.  The only other question I have is  why Stead chose to write about Americans, with whose language peculiarities  she was not so familiar, instead of Australians or even Britishers, whose  particular dialects she must have known better.  I have never been able to  solve this problem because I never meet anyone with whom I could discuss  the book.  It certainly is one of the least-known great novels of the 20th  century.	1999-09-26
US	52761040	R3P2HMXKCSSZL	0553212451	537609961	The Jungle (Bantam Classics)	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Reformist Literature at its Best	THE JUNGLE is a reasonably competent novel: it holds your interest, you get involved with the characters, and the background of the story is vivid and informative.  I would say that Sinclair's political aims sometimes get  in the way of his literary ambitions, especially in the turgid  pro-socialism section at the end, when Jurgis, the main character, finds  salvation.  However, as a book in which the evils of capitalism are  brilliantly displayed in a way which cannot fail to move a reader, and as a  cry for justice for immigrants, reform of meat packing, and improvement of  the conditions of the working man, this book has no competition.  It is a  monument in the history of American literature.  Sinclair gives an  unparalleled picture of the devastated lives of Chicago workers.  You can  also read this book and ponder on how far we have come in one century.  America may still have far to go, but after reading this book, you will  know how far we have come.	1999-09-25
US	52761040	R2NXJIAVHKMIJK	0807612642	113689382	The White Castle	Books	4	27	29	N	N	What is actually in an endless succession of boxes ?	Looking into a mirror to see who you are and looking into a book to see who somebody else is--two very similar actions but with results that differ.  This novel felt like several boxes inside one another; you enter,  or maybe fall through one after another, not having comprehended exactly  where you were before making the next move.  At the end, I understood that  I had thought about many themes.  It made me imagine fantastic, dream trips  across frozen steppes, twisted me around in my mind till I felt like a sick  dwarf, and left me wondering who could have written such a strange,  powerful novel.  And why ?  I admired this writer, who I had not read  before, because of this power.  The story as such is not that found in a  usual &quot;novel&quot;.  It is a Kafkaesque parable, it reminds people of  Borges (even on the book jacket), but is not so much like him, calmer and  deeper.  Pamuk asks who anybody really is and how do you know ?  At another  level his parable is of relations between the Ottoman Empire and the West,  between those who came up with victorious technology and those who  attempted to learn it. (p.106) &quot;..we had in hand not a grand plan that  would save us from ruin, but only the dream of such a plan.&quot; If you  want to call this theme &quot;historical fiction&quot; then OK, this is an  historical novel, but I would not call it that.  What kind of background is  needed for scientific discovery ?  This question might be a sub-theme, but  not the major point.  The book is in no way about Islam, unless you want to  point a finger at that religion for not inspiring science.  Accusations of  that sort are a stupid activity if there ever was one.  Can one person be  another ?  Can you change your life for one you'd rather have?  These are  universal questions and THE WHITE CASTLE is above all a universal novel.  Read it.  Make your own conclusion.  I can't say I understood everything,  but it's a hell of an intriguing book.	1999-09-20
US	52761040	R2URNUYEOZZ220	0805211063	969973930	The Castle	Books	4	32	34	N	N	Nightmarish fare will haunt your dreams	I read somewhere that Kafka used to read the newly-written chapters of THE CASTLE to his friends who would laugh uproariously along with the author.  I found this the scariest thing about the book, indeed one of the strongest  clues that late 20th century America is immeasurably distant from early  20th century Austria-Hungary.  This book will give you nightmares.  It is  nothing so childish as a Hollywood horror movie, but a somehow crumpled,  twisted, horrifying view of human nature, especially as manifest in  bureaucracies.  K needs to speak to someone to get something done.  He  approaches the castle where the lord lives.  The whole story involves his  endless efforts to speak to someone, anyone, who can help him contact the  servant who has the ear of the clerk who can speak to the courtier who  might be able to talk to the cousin who occasionally is known to have the  ear of the lord.  And of course, K is continually frustrated.  Not to  mention you, the reader.  It is the stuff of the worst nightmares.  Thus,  though it is extremely unpleasant,without any hint of beauty, love, or  human feeling, THE CASTLE is a most powerful novel, one of the best I have  ever read.  I can't say I liked it, but it impressed me no end.  If you  have ever read anything else by Kafka and liked it, you will definitely  like this one.  It was never finished, but then such a novel can have no  finish.	1999-09-20
US	52761040	RCF76LTF8U58Q	0876637144	198826066	Solomon's New Men: The Emergence of Ancient Israel As a National State	Books	4	3	3	N	N	&quot;Egyptian pizzaz clix in stix&quot;	Not being a ancient history specialist or any kind of expert on the Near East, ancient Israel, Canaan, or Egypt, I cannot offer sound advice to  would-be readers of this volume as to its innate worth.  However, if you  would like to learn something, if you would like to read a history book  with some interesting views presented in a orderly,competent, but humorous  fashion, then by all means acquire this book. Ancient Hebrews who attended  &quot;King's College, Jerusalem&quot; might have learned from much older  Egyptian texts to &quot;play it by ear and to play it cool.&quot;  I loved  it. Heaton's basic idea is simple, and not funny at all.  When a new state  appears adjacent to an old, very established civilization, the new state is  not going to be culturally independent from the old one.  That is to say,  when Solomon established the much-enlarged Kingdom of Israel, he needed a  bureaucracy, he needed offical buildings, he needed art to emphasize his  royal power, and he needed texts and stories to educate his new phalanx of  officials.  Where did he get all these ?  Did they all arise, like  Aphrodite, full-blown from the sea or rather, from Israel itself ?  Not  likely.  They were taken from Egypt.  If you don't like this idea, if it  rubs you the wrong way, maybe you should read this book.  I liked it a lot.	1999-09-19
US	52761040	R2U89MTZ0H5IQI	0725511257	65854651	Blue Africa: Travel in South Africa, Zimbabwe, Kenya, Tanzania, plus Indian Ocean islands of Mauritius, Madagascar, Reunion, Seychelles (Castle books)	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Champion for superfluous detail	I could recommend this book to every aspiring travel writer as an example of what not to do.  I was totally uninterested as to what wine the writer ate with his dinner, the quality of his seat on the airplane, or any other  of the zillions of details he insisted on providing.  I was interested to  know his impressions of the people and cultures he found in those very  interesting lands he visited.  I did not find out.  This book was written  for readers of the Ladies Home Companion, I reckon.	1999-09-15
US	52761040	R34FAKGVJO11T0	0919946895	931975887	Honduras: The Making of a Banana Republic	Books	4	8	10	N	N	A solid piece of work	If you want to know something about Honduran history and politics, if you want to know why that unfortunate land is so unfortunate, read this book.  I don't think there is another book which will give you the background so  well.  It is readable and informative.  How well I remember living there  many years ago and often finding it difficult to buy a banana in the  consummate 'banana republic'.  That said it all to me.  This book explains  why that could be.  Read it.	1999-09-15
US	52761040	R3D5VR98233Y79	0140136010	332471766	A Short History of Africa: Sixth Edition	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Well-written, concise, informative	I read the 1966 (second)edition of this volume and was not aware of updates until opening this site.  Despite much political and demographic change in Africa over the last 30-odd years, and despite the availability  of much more research and the advent of DNA-based studies, not even heard  of in 1966, I found Oliver and Fage's work a pleasure to read.  Their  chapters are intelligently organized, the flow of ideas and trends  unblemished by superfluous detail or tedious asides.  The entire continent  is covered, North Africa as well as Sub-Saharan, though personally, I felt  a little more could have been said about Madagascar.  As a reader without a  professional stake in African history, I found this book just the thing.  It raised many issues that I had not thought of, told me about many  patterns and issues of which I had known nothing, and did so in clear,  concise language which kept my interest throughout.  I strongly recommend  this book to anyone interested in African history.  I myself will look for  an updated edition to see what the authors say about the last third of a  century.	1999-07-11
US	52761040	R2EN2Y0V7PHRAV	0521226082	640163757	The Rites of Rulers: Ritual in Industrial Society - the Soviet Case	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Sincere attempt, but...	Interested in anthropology and having never found good studies of the former Soviet Union, I bought this book in 1982, but didn't get around to reading it till 1997.  By then, everything had changed, and access to  knowledge about the countries that had made up the USSR was far wider than  could ever have been imagined 15 years before.  Also, I had begun working  with immigrants from the Soviet Union and so my personal knowledge of life  there had grown in the interim as well.  I was disappointed by this  book, yet I do not exactly fault the author.  Her writing on ritual in  industrial society is interesting and useful for any student of the  subject.  The information on Russia, however, was no doubt extremely  limited by what the state permitted her to do or see, and by whom she was  permitted to talk to.  If you want to read what is usually called &quot;an  anthropological study&quot; of ritual in Soviet Russian society, this is  not it.  I felt that the author's contacts with average people were totally  or nearly totally limited.  The book presents the views of many  Soviet-approved authors on the subject of various rituals, no doubt gleaned  from the libraries the author had access to in Moscow.  Whether or not the  actual ritual participants felt the same remains unknown.  Sorry, but  this is not anthropology in the usual sense.  But I sympathise with the  author and admire, in a way, the kind of determination to proceed with what  must have been a most difficult task.  I wonder if she will ever write a  sequel in which she goes back and investigates the same material from the  point of view of the actual participants ?	1999-07-02
US	52761040	R4PQGXCJEMDAW	0140444173	748295604	War and Peace (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Historical fiction as great literature	Perhaps if I had read this book in my 20s, it would have made a different impression on me.  We judge literature according to our life experiences and my life has given me a different perspective from the one I would have  had 30 years ago.  I found myself wondering, at times, where the adults  were in Tolstoy's novel, as most of the main characters were youths.  Only  at the very end did we see what kind of people they became as a result of  their experiences.  If I were 25, I doubt that I would have felt this way.  I felt that the characters were drawn from a very narrow section of  Russian society, yet this is not a fault: he gives such an excellent  portrait of upper class life in those times.  In addition, the emotions and  perceptions of those characters are of necessity those of Tolstoy's time or  of the time the novel takes place.  It could not be otherwise, but for us  in the late 20th century, with knowledge of the mass slaughters of WW I,  the Holocaust, Stalin's terror, the Seige of Leningrad, and numerous  massacres of millions of victims (all by so-called civilized people),  Tolstoy's views are sadly optimistic.  The main weakness of this novel  is the amount of space Tolstoy devoted to expounding on his theories of  history and life, which, in our own age, may strike readers as a little  naive or beside the point.  The strengths of &quot;War and Peace&quot;  are the beautiful writing, the finely-delineated characters---how he can  describe an individual with a few sentences, so that you see them as almost  alive !---and his description of war as utter chaos, with no heroes, no  military geniuses, only a vast panorama of death and action with no certain  result.  This has to be one of the greatest novels ever written.  I only  wish I had read it 25 years ago when my view of the world was fresher.	1999-06-30
US	52761040	R15IZLFUZ5FM2I	1853265772	165299353	The House of Mirth (Classics Library (NTC))	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A powerful novel that speaks across time	Though &quot;Age of Innocence&quot; may be more famous, with a well-known film to spread its story, I felt that this novel was better.  Wharton provides the reader with a well-woven tapestry of despair and tragedy.  I  felt myself wishing that Lily would take the initiative, DO something to  stop her slow decline into poverty and drugs, but at the same time, as an  amateur literary critic, knowing that in her inability to do so lay the  whole point of the book.  The description was wonderful, the subsidiary  characters excellently drawn, and the ending powerful.  I did not  particularly appreciate the stereotyping of the Jewish character, but no  doubt that expressed the feelings of upper class New York at the time, and  so I reluctantly accepted it in my heart.  Nothing, especially  retrospective viewing of ethnocentrism, can take away from Edith Wharton's  rank as one of the great American writers.	1999-06-23
US	52761040	R3LUN9G0QCCVUA	0253209609	883166824	Pan-Turkism: From Irredentism to Cooperation	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Tedious voyage through fascinating country	It was with great delight that I read of Jacob Landau's book &quot;Pan-Turkism: From Irredentism to Cooperation&quot;, and with anticipation that I ordered it.  It seemed to promise a comprehensive look  at a subject that had once, 35 years ago, appealed to me as exotic, but in  today's changed, post-Soviet world, become immediate and apropos.  Having  read it, a job that unfortunately took a great deal of forbearance, I must  report a certain reluctance to recommend this volume to any but the most  dedicated of readers.  For them, no doubt Landau's work will be very  satisfying, for it is exhaustive, excellently-organized, and impressive in  its knowledge.  For students of modern Turkey or indeed of Pan-Turkism,  this book may be indispensable, but for a more general reader with a  strong, but not professional, interest in Turkish history and contemporary  Turkish politics, culture, and society, I fear that Landau's book will  prove too dense, too loaded with detail, and too packed with footnotes to  provide any satisfaction.  It is no doubt the premier work on its  subject.  However, a more readable work on this fascinating and pertinent  aspect of 19th, 20th, and (I suspect) 21st century history must be awaited.  Pan-Turkism has gone through phases--from the Balkan-style irredentism  of Pan-Turkist writers in the late Ottoman and early Republic period, to a  latent stage between roughly 1923 and 1943, and then to a growing  resurgence of the ideas since.  With the collapse of the Soviet system,  which had &quot;imprisoned&quot; the bulk of the world's Turks outside  Turkey itself, a whole new realm of possibility developed.  Turkey's  relationships with the five new Turkic nations of the Caucasus and Central  Asia are still in the early stages.  A future author may write a more  readable book and simultaneously, bring us up to date on Pan-Turkism in the  new, post-Cold War world.  Cooperation may be the theme of the '90s, but as  oil, politics, and ethno-nationalisms become more and more salient in the  Middle East, Balkans, and Central Asia, Pan-Turkism will take its place as  a topic of serious study for more than occasional specialists.  Perhaps  then a more readable book will be written.hno-nationalisms become more and more salient in the  Middle East, Balkans, and Central Asia, Pan-Turkism will take its place as  a topic of serious study for more than occasional specialists.  Perhaps  then a more readable book will be written.	1999-06-13
US	52761040	R1DFL5DRVDEG8H	0140112901	319809485	The Viceroy of Ouidah	Books	5	36	38	N	N	Scintillating prose about ghastly times	As an aspiring travel writer who has yet to publish anything, I turned green with envy on reading Bruce Chatwin's novel.  In terse, spare prose, he summons up images that seem drawn from photography or haiku rather than  from ordinary literature.  He presents distant times (late 18th and early  19th century) and places (Brazil and Dahomey) linking them seamlessly with  the steamy, sordid present---the paranoid military dictatorship of Benin in  the crumbling West African post-colonial 1970s.  Every page is redolent of  color, smell, sound, and imminent disaster: every scene appears like a bead  in a necklace of decay, corruption, cruelty and disaster.  There are no  wasted moments, no lagging sections.  A poor boy from the Brazilian  backlands becomes a rich, powerful slave trader in West Africa, but his  background betrays him at home, his connections in Africa ultimately do the  same.  His largely illegitimate family continues into the seedy Benin of  the present.  My only criticism of this work is that Chatwin chose to  concentrate solely on the Brazilian side of things, leaving the Africans as  part of the backdrop--more acted upon than actors.  Dahomey was a  fascinating society and besides the anthropological researches of M.  Herskovits, one can read Frank Yerby's &quot;The Dahomeyan&quot;, though  Yerby's prose pales in comparison to Chatwin's.  A far better book, one  which focuses on the Dahomeyan connection to Brazil as well, is Judith  Gleason's &quot;Agtime&quot;, a possible antidote to the slant taken by  Chatwin.  Otherwise, this book contains superlative writing on every  page, writing redolent with human nature, the mysteries of the soul, and  the mundane horrors of much of human history.  &quot;The Viceroy of  Ouidah&quot; has the power to open periods and locations for readers that  have seldom featured in Anglo-American writing.  It is a stunning book.	1999-06-12
US	52761040	R2H8Z0A49OC2AU	1568590482	122161026	Bukhara: The Medieval Achievement (Bibliotheca Iranica: Reprint Series)	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Top book on origins of Islam in India and more	I read this book nearly 25 years ago and the longer I live, the more  impressed I am with it.  It gave me a deep appreciation for the  Arab-Persian-Turkic fusion that took place in Central Asia in the years  900-1100 (approx).  This Islam was the one that came to the Indian  subcontinent, even if the Arabs landed there a couple centuries earlier.  I  thought of this book any number of times as I taught Indian studies over  the years and feel that it was one of the influential books in molding how  I think about India (&amp; Pakistan).  It can only be even more useful  today, now that Uzbekistan and the whole Central Asian region have regained  independence and will be making their cultural impact on the world and more  specifically, on South Asia.  If you are interested in Islam, in Central  and South Asia, in Iran or Turkish history, read this book !	1998-09-23
