US	52774612	RHAYIAJWXBKQW	0812563123	27779639	The Hunchback of Notre-Dame (Tor Classics)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Book of stone	Victor Hugo sculpts from the stone of Notre Dame characters and story that become molten and pour onto the pages of this grand edifice of a novel. Hugo wrote: \\"...human thought, in changing its form, was about to change its mode of expression; that the dominant idea of each generation would no longer be written with the same matter, and in the same manner; that the book of stone, so solid and so durable, was about to make way for the book of paper\\" In Gothic architecture story was carved in stone, many gospel stories are sculpted in the stone of Notre Dame for example, and with the advent of the printing press Hugo sees the decline of this storying in stone. He places his novel on the cusp between stone and print and even seems to create Quasimodo from one of the stone gargoyles that ornament Notre Dame. In one scene where Quasimodo has created a fire on  Notre Dame to melt lead to rain down on attackers below the stone figures seem to come to life: \\"The restless light of the flame made them move to the eye. There were griffins which had the air of laughing, gargoyles which one fancied one heard yelping, salamanders which puffed at the fire, tarasques which sneezed in the smoke. And among the monsters thus roused from their sleep of stone by this flame, by this noise, there was one who walked about, and who was seen, from time to time, to pass across the glowing face of the pile, like a bat in front of a candle.\\" The Hunchback of Notre Dame is a magnificent novel polished by the author into a brilliant gem.	2004-10-11
US	52774612	R3NWM2F52Y38Q4	0375756825	404458421	Treasure Island (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Yarn	J M Barrie said \\"Over Treasure Island I let my fire die in winter without knowing I was freezing.\\" This is a captivating book that will make you forget little things like freezing to death. Barrie recalls his mother feigning disinterest in the book: \\"'Oh, I may take a look at it again by and by' she says indifferently, but nevertheless the probability is that as the door shuts the book opens, as if by some mechanical contrivance. I remember how she read Treasure Island, holding it close to the ribs of the fire (because she could not spare a moment to rise and light the gas), and how, when bedtime came, and we coaxed, remonstrated, scolded, she said quite fiercely, clinging to the book, ' I dinna lay my head on a pillow this night till I see how that laddie got out of the barrel.'\\" A well written story of pirates, buried treasure, sailing ships, and adventure, Treasure Island is also a literary treasure. Stevenson deftly creates a whole Piratical lingo for this tale. Parts of the book stick  with you like Jim Hawkins meeting marooned Ben Gunn. Ben tells him \\"Marooned three years agone,\\" he continued, \\"and lived on goats since then, and berries, and oysters. Wherever a man is, says I, a man can do for himself. But, mate, my heart is sore for Christian diet. You mightn't happen to have a piece of cheese about you, now? No? Well, many's the long night I've dreamed of cheese--toasted, mostly--and woke up again, and here I were.\\" How can we ever forget Long John Silver's parrot Cap'n Flint crying pieces of eight! pieces of eight! until Silver throws his handkerchief over the cage. You may even hear the surf booming about the coasts of Treasure Island in your dreams. Long John beckons to Jim during the voyage \\"Come away, Hawkins,\\" he would say; \\"come and have a yarn with John. Nobody more welcome than yourself, my son.\\" and so Silver welcomes us all into this splendid yarn.	2004-09-23
US	52774612	R3F5LEF62IA73B	0803280041	664524897	A Voyage to Arcturus (Bison Frontiers of Imagination)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	The flag of truth	A waiter bringing food might say be careful this plate is hot, a reviewer of this book might warn be careful this book may burn you. Maskull, a man longing for adventures, accepts an invitation from Krag, an acquaintance of his friend Nightspore, to travel to the planet Tormance something Maskull doubts is even possible. They are to meet at a Scottish observatory called Starkness and depart from there. When Maskull and Nightspore get there Krag has not arrived yet so Nightspore leads Maskull to a spot on the shore some miles off where they hear the Drum Taps of Sorgie and tells him that if he hears it again he is to \\"try always to hear it more and more distinctly.\\" Krag finally shows up and they depart in a 'torpedo of crystal' propelled by Arcturian back rays. Maskull sleeps on the trip and wakes up alone on Tormance and faces many adventures as each time he thinks he has come upon the truth one lie after another is exposed as Krag and Shaping vie for his attention. Unlike most books \\"A Voyage to Arcturus\\" defies genre. It reminds of Buddhist and Gnostic themes yet pushes beyond either in this original novel. Illusion and reality, pleasure and pain are the main combatants here with pain as a kind of beacon from another world. Pain is represented by the character named Krag. Shaping also known as Crystalman is a sort of demiurge that has distorted the light of Muspel, Norse world of fire is M&uacute;spellsheimr, creating a world of illusion. \\"They say that when the world was born, Krag was born with it -- a spirit compounded of those vestiges of Muspel which Shaping did not know how to transform.\\" Alan Moore writes in his introduction to the excellent Savoy edition, \\" Naturally, the sensate creatures trapped in Crystalman's endlessly multiplying world of shape and dazzle are conditioned by their habitat, their solar system a gigantic Skinner box, its population become thrill addicted rodents, nuzzling repeatedly against the pleasure levers, seeking their reward.\\" I think reading this book every now and then acts as a kind of purgative to the reader living in our modern pleasure seeking world. A reader of \\"A Voyage to Arcturus\\" who was impressed and influenced by Lindsay's masterpiece was C. S. Lewis who later wrote: \\"Pain plants the flag of truth in the fortress of the rebel heart.\\" Oh and the Drum Taps of Sorgie they turn out to be Krag (pain) dealing hammer blows onto the human heart. David Lindsay was a British mystic visionary of the first water and this book an absolute diamond scrying stone that allows it's readers a peep behind the veil.<br /><br />*reading this book every now and then acts as a kind of purgative to the reader living in our modern pleasure seeking world. A reader of \\"A Voyage to Arcturus\\" who was impressed and influenced by Lindsay's masterpiece was C. S. Lewis who later wrote: \\"Pain plants the flag of truth in the fortress of the rebel heart.\\" Oh and the Drum Taps of Sorgie they turn out to be Krag (pain) dealing hammer blows onto the human heart. David Lindsay was a British mystic visionary of the first water and this book an absolute diamond scrying stone that allows it's readers a peep behind the veil.<br /><br />*	2004-08-18
US	52774612	R2BKNFAHSLUI78	0192834037	219890586	The Fortunes and Misfortunes of the Famous Moll Flanders. (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Moll Flanders!	\\"It is true that the original of this story is put into new words\\" thus Defoe tells us in the Authors Preface that he has re-written the original manuscript delivered to him by Moll. Of course since there was no original manuscript or no real Moll , except for a model for her he might of met while in Newgate prison, Defoe is creating fiction within fiction. This is just one of the many devices Defoe uses to depict Moll to the reader as a real person not just a literary creation. Moll comes to life in these pages and seems to be a person of history instead of fiction but Moll Flanders is not really a novel.<br /> Defoe's \\"Roxana\\" is the first English novel. Some would point to  Robinson Crusoe or Moll Flanders yet the time before and after the Island in \\"Crusoe\\" seems to fit the Tall Tale genre and Moll Flanders is a picturesque adventure. Roxana is more of what the \\"novel\\" evolves into.<br /> Moll is born in Newgate prison. Her mother, a thief, after pleading her belly and delivering Moll into this world is deported to the colonies in America. Moll is passed around even living and travelling with Gypsies for awhile. During her early years she relies on men to keep her afloat because in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries a woman alone had few good options for survival and Moll is nothing if not a survivor. On into middle age Moll turns thief to make ends meet. In one scene she is going to a house fire to see what can be had in the panic and confusion ,since she had luck that way once before, and a maid throws a mattress out of an upper story and it lands on Moll knocking her out. If they threw more goods out onto the mattress, Moll reflects she would have been \\"inevitably killed; but I was reserved for further afflictions\\".<br /> Also recommended is the excellent film \\"Moll Flanders\\" starring Alex Kingston.	2003-08-26
US	52774612	R1K59N54JGGELJ	0679418962	397623101	Walden (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	I have travelled a good deal in Concord	\\"The mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation.\\" Thoreau spent 26 months hermitage at Walden Pond to face what is essential and shed the rest. Starting with Economy then on to Where I lived and What For and Reading, Sounds, Solitude, Visitors, the Pond, Baker Farm, Higher Laws, Brute Neighbors, House Warming, and on through to Spring. Sounds is one of my favorite chapters. He tells of the sounds he can hear as he sits silently listening. He sets his furniture out of doors and watches the sun beam down. He hears the railroad whistle in the distance and the distant rumbling of wagons over bridges or hoot owls at night with bullfrogs too, a plethora of sound!<br /> Superb writing and the benefit of one perceptive man's 26 months of reflection, hermitage, and life at Walden Pond.	2003-08-12
US	52774612	R148L9U0FQZC47	0553210092	916048954	The Scarlet Letter (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Letter A blooms red	Hester Prynne and much of the framework of the story is modeled on Anne Hutchinson who in 1638 was imprisoned and then banished from Boston for being Antinomian, (anti-law), her belief being that love and personal religious experience were greater than the elderly Puritan authority. Hawthorne describes the rosebush by the prison door as springing up under the footsteps of the sainted Ann Hutchinson.  Hester and Anne have several parallels, the dignified manner of facing their trials, rumors that each had a child by the devil, strong relationship and betrayal by a well respected Puritan clergyman, defiance of Puritan elders, punishments of prison and banishment, and both were advisors to other women. Hawthorne takes the A of Antinomian and makes it the A of adultrey because he wants to shine a brilliant spotlight on the workings of the human heart in the course of the narrative.<br /> Witchcraft plays a role in the Scarlet Letter. John Hathorne an ancestor of the author was one of the judges at the infamous Salem witch trials where most of the condemned and executed were women.  Govenor Bellingham's sister Mistress Hibbins, an historical figure later hanged for witchcraft, believes herself to be a witch in this novel. Many believe Hester's child Pearl to be fathered by the devil and that Hester's A glows red in the dark. Hester tells Pearl she met the blackman in the forest once and that the A is his mark. Chillingworth ,Hesters elderly husband, practices alchemy or something close to it and his heart is darkened the most of the players in this tale. As Dimmesdale stands on the scaffold at night he sees a display of lights in the sky and it looks to him like a giant A  marked out in lines of dull red light for his adultrey.<br /> Dimmesdale cares more for his ambition than for Hester and Pearl. The Puritans think him saintly and the truth gnaws away at him and weakens him. Hawthorne tells us at one point to \\"Be True Be True\\" meaning genuine, real, to show and be yourself warts and all.<br /> As in Hester's great art with her needle Hawthorne has crafted great art with this masterpiece.<br /> Some have confused the heralds description of what was on the tombstone thinking the words were on the stone. Only the red A on a black background is on the stone. The Heralds description is \\"On a field, sable, the letter A, gules\\". Gules is a heraldic word that also has a root meaning flowers, so a rendering of this in plain english would be: On a background, black, the letter A,  blooms red.arts and all.    As in Hester's great art with her needle Hawthorne has crafted great art with this masterpiece.   Some have confused the heralds description of what was on the tombstone thinking the words were on the stone. Only the red A on a black background is on the stone. The Heralds description is \\"On a field, sable, the letter A, gules\\". Gules is a heraldic word that also has a root meaning flowers, so a rendering of this in plain english would be: On a background, black, the letter A,  blooms red.	2003-08-02
US	52774612	R3K64G93B8XE5T	0553212583	363093333	Wuthering Heights (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	Wuthering	Lockwood, the tenant at Thrushcross Grange, visits Heathcliff his landlord and the latter says \\"walk in\\" in a manner that sounds like \\"go to the deuce\\" to Lockwood. When Lockwood visits Wuthering Heights for the second time the area sees heavy snow and he is marooned there over night with Miltonian ice and snow around him, his hades complete with a half dozen four footed fiends like the hounds of hell inside. Catherine is even pretending to weave some black arts to tease Joseph. So we see that Bronte has painted us a picture of hell at Wuthering heights with, as we shall see later, Thrushcross Grange it's polar opposite. Dante Rossetti said of this novel: \\"The action is laid in Hell, only it seems places and people have English names there.\\"<br />After retiring for the night Lockwood reads the names Catherine Earnshaw, Catherine Heathcliff, Catherine Linton written on a window ledge. This series of names tells the story of Catherine Earnshaw to her relationship to Heathcliff and then to marriage to Edgar Linton, read in the opposite direction it is the story of her daughter Catherine Linton who marries a Heathcliff and ends up an Earnshaw. Lockwood goes to sleep and dreams of going with Joseph to hear a Reverend Jabes Branderham preach on Seventy time seven and the first of the seventy first which was in a book he had been reading, and that Catherine had scribbled in. In a truly funny scene Lockwood is exposed as the first of the seventy first sinner: \\"'Thou art the man!' cried Jabes ... Brethren, execute upon him the judgement written. Such honour have all His saints!' With that concluding word, the whole assembly, exalting their pilgrim's staves, rushed round me in a body; and I, having no weapon to raise in self-defence, commenced grappling with Joseph, my nearest and most ferocious assailant, for his. In the confluence of the multitude, several clubs crossed; blows, aimed at me, fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counter rappings: every man's hand was against his neighbour; and Branderham, unwilling to remain idle, poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit, which responded so smartly that, at last, to my unspeakable relief, they woke me\\".<br />Bronte paints in Heathcliff as a goblin that digs up graves and torments the living but she also lets us look a little deeper and we see his torment at the loss of Catherine. Symbolically, I suppose, Wuthering Heights represents Romanticism in decline while Thrushcross Grange depicts the emerging Victorian values. Bronte gives us two main narrators Nelly Dean and Lockwood and we see most of the story through their eyes. Virginia Woolf said \\"It is as if Emily Brontë could tear up all that we know human beings by, and fill these unrecognizable transparencies with such a gust of life that they transcend reality.\\" Emily Bronte's numinous and gothic Wuthering Heights compasses a literary zenith as the finest English novel.r rappings: every man's hand was against his neighbour; and Branderham, unwilling to remain idle, poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit, which responded so smartly that, at last, to my unspeakable relief, they woke me\\".<br />Bronte paints in Heathcliff as a goblin that digs up graves and torments the living but she also lets us look a little deeper and we see his torment at the loss of Catherine. Symbolically, I suppose, Wuthering Heights represents Romanticism in decline while Thrushcross Grange depicts the emerging Victorian values. Bronte gives us two main narrators Nelly Dean and Lockwood and we see most of the story through their eyes. Virginia Woolf said \\"It is as if Emily Brontë could tear up all that we know human beings by, and fill these unrecognizable transparencies with such a gust of life that they transcend reality.\\" Emily Bronte's numinous and gothic Wuthering Heights compasses a literary zenith as the finest English novel.	2003-04-17
US	52774612	RWMLCF1F5T3B5	0140447644	691474875	The Red and the Black (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Desire	The title of this book can refer to the red uniforms of Napoleon's soldiers and the black robes of priests or to colors on a roulette wheel or perhaps the colors of blood and mourning, death. The main theme here seems to be desire, or desire beyond our basic instincts, how we come to desire what we do by imitating culture, history,  and selected others. The fictional town Verrieres,  a panoramic view of which we see in the opening pages along with hearing the loud sounds of the mayor's nail factory, in French means windows. Stendhal boosts us up to a window and we see Julien Sorel who crafts his desires from Napoleon's Memorial de Saint-Helene, Rousseau's Confessions, and a collection of bulletins of the Grand Army. He moves from being the despised son of a saw mill owner to a tutor for the mayor's children and onward from there as the novel progresses. As we read and the author lets us peer through more windows we realize that we are witness to a comic opera as well as to a study of human motivation and desire. The narrator who often speaks to us and takes us under his wing with a confidence or two likens a novel to a man carrying a mirror on his back down a muddy road, sometimes we see the clear blue sky sometimes the muddy road. Is this a reliable narrator to tell us this? You read and decide. If there is a moral for me to be had from this novel it is that people will always get their desire from somewhere whether it's novels, history, or other people but if we can be aware of this process then we can select our influences more consciously.	2003-03-20
US	52774612	R184F52D5NI1TH	0312979479	307844923	And Then There Were None	Books	5	3	4	N	N	One got in Chancery	Ten people are summoned by letter to Indian Island off the  Devon coast. All are accused by a voice on a gramaphone recording of murder, all crimes which for one reason or another  escaped punishment by the law. They are trapped on the island and since this is a Christie novel the murders begin and with a vengeance. There are little indian figurines in the house, each time someone is killed a little indian<br />figure, yes there are ten of them, disappears.<br /> Every murder follows, in order,<br />the nursery rhyme \\"Ten Little Indians\\", which reads:<br /><br />Ten little Indian boys went out to dine;<br />One choked his little self and then there were nine.<br />Nine little Indian boys sat up very late;<br />One overslept himself and then there were eight.<br />Eight little Indian boys traveling in Devon;<br />One said he'd stay there and then there were seven.<br />Seven little Indian boys chopping up sticks;<br />One chopped himself in halves and then there were six.<br />Six little Indian boys playing with a hive;<br />A bumblebee stung one and then there were five.<br />Five little Indian boys going in for law;<br />One got in Chancery and then there were four.<br />Four little Indian boys going out to sea;<br />A red herring swallowed one and then there were three.<br />Three little Indian boys walking in the zoo;<br />A big bear hugged one and then there were two.<br />Two little Indian boys sitting in the sun;<br />One got frizzled up and then there was one.<br />One little Indian boy left all alone;<br />He went and hanged himself and then there were none.<br />This classic novel vibrates with themes of guilt, conscience, and justice. \\"And Then There Were None\\" is one of the strongest mysteries in the genre.	2002-12-14
US	52774612	R1LE2IXRUE2ZXS	0786207523	875994499	The Kiowa Verdict: A Western Story (Five Star First Edition Western Series)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Historical Western	Cynthia Haseloff has written a great western that very much deserves the 1998 Spur award recieved from the Western Writers of America.<br />The Kiowa Verdict is based on the trial of two Kiowa Indians, Satanta and Adoltay also called Big Tree, for taking part in the \\"The Warren Wagon Train Massacre.\\"  Satanta led about 100 Kiowas and Comanches and attacked a wagon train with only a dozen white men. This took place west of Fort Richardson, Texas, in the spring of 1871. There was little doubt who was responsible, for Satanta himself bragged to Quaker Indian agent Lawrie Tatum at Fort Sill:<br />\\"Remember this. If any other Indian comes in here saying he led the raid he will be lying, because I, Satanta, led it.\\"<br />Satanta and Big Tree were the first Indians to be tried in a white man's court in Texas for crimes committed against Texans.<br />Historically both Satanta and Big Tree were convicted of murder and sentenced to hang. Governor Edmund J. Davis commuted their sentences to life imprisonment. Later Satanta committed suicide by leaping headfirst from a second story window at the Texas State Prison in Huntsville and smashing his head on stone paving.<br />Adoltay, or Big Tree, a young warrior, converted to Methodism while in prison, was eventually released, was ordained as a Methodist minister, returned to the Kiowa-Comanche lands around Fort Sill and was instrumental in converting many Kiowas and Comanches to Methodism.<br />One of the characters in this novel, Joseph A. Woolfolk, a Confederate and Frontier Regiment veteran, was appointed by the Thirteenth District Court of the State of Texas to defend the Kiowas. The prosecutor was S. W. T. Lanham, who later became governor of Texas.<br />Transcripts of the trial don't exist, so what courtroom action there is - and of course the thoughts and fears of Joe Woolfolk - are entirely fictional. What is real is the fact that poor Joe Woolfolk instead of putting up a token defense, actually defended his clients in court.<br /> To paraphrase the sometimes Western writer Mark Twain, \\"the reports of the death of the Western have been greatly exaggerated.\\" The modern Western has been part of the American literary scene ever since - and arguably long before - Owen Wister introduced readers to \\"The Virginian\\" in 1902, and it shows no signs of riding into the sunset.. <br /> To paraphrase the sometimes Western writer Mark Twain, \\"the reports of the death of the Western have been greatly exaggerated.\\" The modern Western has been part of the American literary scene ever since - and arguably long before - Owen Wister introduced readers to \\"The Virginian\\" in 1902, and it shows no signs of riding into the sunset.	2002-11-26
US	52774612	R31KWR7JAK4QAW	0405109954	141681867	Devil's Tor (Lost Race and Adult Fantasy Fiction)	Books	4	11	11	N	Y	Numinous	David Lindsay listed the themes of Devil's Tor in a letter to Putnams:<br />&#34;...Fate made visible, the Great Mother, the mystic stones belonging to a world of other dimensions, the part of the Northern races in history, the supernatural bringing-together of a chosen pair for the uplifting of humanity, the purpose of the creation of the universes...&#34; Lindsay has used various storylines in his books including a journey to another planet, celtic myth, a dream recording machine, Adam and Eve, ancient goddess worship, and a witch. These elements or even some of the philosophy in the books are not the key to the genius of Lindsay. He uses everything to create a bridge to the numinous and help the reader to a hint of supernatural experience. He succeeds well with the numen at the tor. This depiction of an ancient goddess at Devil's Tor, along with the other visions seen by people there, give a strong sense of another dimension. Lindsay had also done his homework on ancient goddess worship. Many facts presented in the book check out with current archaeology. Behind all of Lindsay's books is the emphasis on individual contact with something that is very like the Chinese concept of the Tao. Something existant before religion, before gods and goddess. Lindsay calls this muspel (norse myth), in one book and names it the ancient in Devil's Tor. Contact with this ancient brings authentic life in a world that Lindsay often sees as sham. Devil's Tor can be a slow read because Lindsay makes use of interior monologue to let us see inside his characters. The characters engage in endless arguments and discussion which can make for tedious reading at times.<br /> This line from the book describes sundown at the tor: &#34;Only in the vertical line of the sun's descent a lozenge of darkest, quietest crimson hung over the horizon, as it had been a goblin window...&#34; With Devil's Tor Lindsay has opened a goblin window on the numinous.	2002-11-11
US	52774612	RW8F2MAZ6B8Y	0945353154	7634275	Babette's Feast / Sorrow-Acre: 2 Short Stories (Allyear Tax Guide)	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Two fine stories	A couple of Isak Dinesen's best stories are here. Babette's Feast ,which is also a wonderful film, centers around a shared meal that brings grace and joy. An artist/cook gives all she has for a feast, two sisters, and her art. Sorrow-Acre resembles a folktale and shows the depths of a mothers love. Colleen Dewhurst does a superb reading.	2002-10-12
US	52774612	R1BFWD2YDT549P	0060677589	797440507	Letters of the Scattered Brotherhood	Books	5	26	27	N	Y	Spiritual Classic	These epistles were printed in a religious weekly from 1934 to 1948, then they were gathered and published in book form. Many of them were written in the difficult days of World War two. The  letters have been interpolated with quotations from the great company scattered the world over who have found faith to walk in immortality now.  The letters, we are told,  are not written by one person, yet the likeness of terminology and viewpoint make them appear to be from one mind. One thing is certain these letters come from a higher register. Mary Holbrook Wilson Strong arranged the letters and gathered the quotes in this wonderful spiritual resource of a book.	2002-08-24
US	52774612	RH4DP1O6CFI62	0679732519	588113044	A Hell of a Woman	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Through Thick and Thin	Frank Dillon employee of Pay-E-Zee Stores is working outside sales in the rain when a flash of lightening illuminates a woman in a window \\"I'd gotten out of my car and was running for the porch when I saw her. She was peering through the curtains of the door, and a flash of lightning lit up the dark glass for an instant, framing her face like a picture.\\" and thus begins one of Thompson's wildest novels. Frank, his nickname is Dolly which was Jim Thompson's nickname when he worked as a bellboy, is $300 in the hole to the company he works for from skimming the books he's always hoping for a big break to pay it back a break that never comes. Dillon in \\"A Hell of a Woman\\" sees his whole life as having been squandered on one worthless woman after another, so much so that all women become a blur. \\"Tramps, that's all I got. Five godd*mned tramps in a row ... or maybe it was six or seven, but it doesn't matter. It was like they were the same person.\\" But just as they are crowding into one person, Frank is turning into two halfway through the book he creates a new persona, and by the end he's speaking out of both sides of his mouth. We run into comedic and insane subtitles: \\"Through Thick and Thin: The true story of a man's fight against high odds and low women...by Knarf Nollid\\" and later \\"Upward and Onward by Derf Senoj.\\" Towards the end the narration splits with one version told by Frank and the other by unreliable narrators Knarf or Derf and let's just say putting this part under the Cheshire Cat rubric of \\"We're all mad here\\" would be a mild way of labeling this. In this, Thompson's best novel, he has made a killer duet or killer in stereo and it is one crazy ride.	2002-03-02
US	52774612	R19KL54N9MK4NO	0679732489	352461005	The Grifters	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Oedipus in L. A.	Grift is money made dishonestly as in a swindle or a confidence game. The grifters in this novel by Thompson are Lilly and Roy Dillon and Moira Langtry. Lilly and Roy are mother and son and haven't seen each other for seven years as the book opens. Moira is Roy's girlfriend, a prostitute, and a former grifter. Roy has a steady sales job and he makes the grift on the side. Lilly does her grifting for the mob, betting down the odds on long shots at the horse races so her boss won't take too big of a fall should one of those long shots come in.<br /> This novel has beautiful description, great characterization, and even some subtle jabs at consumerism and the corrupting aspects of the modern world. Moira and her former grifter partner Cole laugh at and make fun of advertisements. Moira in a bar after ordering a sidecar feels \\"that the times were out of joint with themselves, and that the most emphasis was put on the least worthwhile pursuits\\". \\"She can no longer hear it. It was lost, the music which each person had inside himself, and which put him in step with things as they should be\\". Dillon is the name Thompson used on his Communist party Identification card. Many artists at the time were interested in Communism because of their concern for social justice for the poor and didn't know much about the larger Communist world. There is an Oedipal atmosphere that develops in Roy's love hate relationship with Lilly. This novel builds at a slow crescendo pace and the ending is a shocker.	2002-02-23
US	52774612	R3B99KGBMAJF4K	0679732500	580873109	The Getaway	Books	4	14	16	N	N	El Rey	The Getaway begins with a bank robbery that puts Doc McCoy and his wife Carol to running across country. This flight of theirs makes up most of the book and the pace is unrelenting. Along the way they jump trains, steal cars, hide underwater in two caves and in a hollowed out manure pile. Doc and his wife will kill anyone who gets in their way. They are trying to get down to Mexico where a man called El Rey has a criminal sanctuary lying in a small coastal group of mountains... El Rey's kingdom is no utopia however. There is nothing but the best to be had and it all cost plenty. When your money runs out so does your luck you are taken to a little village to starve to death. It is a place of cross and double cross as people try to make their money stretch further. It's a waking nightmare for Doc and Carol. There is no food from the outside allowed in the village. The residents exiled from El Rey survive by cannibalizing each other.  Therefore, couples who seek refuge in El Rey usually wind up murdering the other partner to conserve cash. That is, the ones who don't commit suicide out of despair.  So, in the midst of first class villas by the sea and unlimited gourmet food and drink, everyone in El Rey is miserably awaiting their ultimate demise. Earlier in the novel when Doc and Carol are hiding with some poor migrant workers Doc is at his most happy even though in extremely poor circumstance and at El Rey his most miserable.	2002-02-20
US	52774612	RI0D2WQZOHWD3	0679733132	631405199	The Alcoholics	Books	3	3	4	N	N	El Healtho	This is not a Thompson crime hard boiled noir and I think this is why some reviewers didn't like it. I enjoyed it!<br /> Dr. Murphy runs a dry up clinic for alcoholics called El Healtho that sits above the pacific ocean in which Murphy is trying to drown himself as the book opens. It is early morning and he has been swimming for three hours when a big wave spews him and alot of seaweed on to the beach, a possible Jonah reference there. The book takes us through one day in the clinic and it's cast of characters. The clinic will be closed if Doc Murphy can't come up with fifteen thousand and this poses an ethical problem for Murphy, the only way to get the money is to agree to do something for a rich family that is against the best interests of one of his patients. Besides the alcoholics constantly trying to get a drink you have a sadistic nurse, a vodoo woman who is the cook, and a pregnant actress on the scene. Towards the end they bring in a drunk writer to sober up and Doc Murphy wants to get him sober and get him to write a book abut the clinic, and of course the writer that writes a book about the clinic we now know is Jim Thompson.<br /> Thompson had alot of trouble with alcoholism and I'm sure some of what is in this book comes first hand. I have read much Thompson and although I enjoyed reading this one it is not one of his best.	2002-02-18
US	52774612	RP639GFONAEO0	0375757023	834895535	The Ox-Bow Incident (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Spellbound	I was so enthralled by this book I read it in one day. I was so spellbound I had trouble putting it down at all. Clark's description and dialogue are superb. The theme of the law verses the mob is well known. There is a deeper theme of what happens when the minority who know better don't stand strongly enough against the majority about to commit wrong as evidenced in Davies confession to Art Croft in the hotel room towards the end of the book. The Ox-Bow Incident is not only a classic western but a classic of American literature.	2002-02-06
US	52774612	R2SML806KCSIR2	0807126802	641415151	Ignatius Rising: The Life of John Kennedy Toole	Books	4	16	23	N	N	Informative	I finished Ignatius Rising very quickly, maybe because of my great interest in the book A Confederacy of Dunces. There is certainly a wealth of information here for the Dunces fan. I must say right off that Gottlieb ,the N Y editor, seemed to want the book to be perfect or maybe was just making excuses because something in the book offended him. I didn't feel he was really trying to help Toole, more like just stringing him along. The authors here play down that Gottlieb might have been offended with something in the book and therefore didn't give it it's due consideration. I still don't buy that, after all Gottlieb read the m.s. so he must have realized that Dunces was a masterpiece. I think editors having so much power over an artist's work can be a little intoxicating and blinding, at least this may have prooved true for the editor in question here. I don't really know of course and there are still unanswered questions in this regard upon completing this informative work. There are facts here I never knew, like there being an earlier version of Dunces with Ignatius being called something else. Towards the end of the book the tragic visitation of Toole's depression makes for tough reading. The authors deserve a lot of credit for digging out this much info on Dunces and Toole. I just can't say after reading this tragic story that I walk away from this book with an all together good feeling.	2001-12-29
US	52774612	R3FTZNQ1TYTI4B	0679731725	247754060	The Remains of the Day	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Worthy	The word dignity that concerns Stevens so in this novel comes from the latin dignitas &lt; dignus, worthy. This novel by Ishiguro is worthy of the Booker prize it recieved and much praise from all quarters. Like his previous two novels there is a strong theme here of realization of having backed the wrong horse ,so to speak, and how to proceed from there. This, Ishiguro's third effort, reaches masterpiece quality in form, prose, restraint, and narrative. A previous reviewer's comparison to Chekhov is very apt. Steven's the samurai slash english gentry butler of Darlington hall has spent his life serving what he thought was a great man, Lord Darlington. Darlington , it turns out was an unwitting pawn of the Nazi's in diplomacy between Nazi Germany and England. Steven's realizes this along with his missed romantic chances in his past and it breaks his heart. He must decide a worthy way to spend the remains of his day. Stevens although not a perfect human is a refreshing literary character with his selfless devotion, civility, and ideals. His struggle to learn how to banter and joke is the most touching and humorous part of the book. This is a modern day classic!	2001-12-16
US	52774612	R2YVAX7VZL6WQD	0141186186	959137665	Mysteries (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Blind angels	I think Lyngstad is right on in translating midget into miniman because the midget is a double of Nagel and this translation reflects the intended meaning of Hamsun. Lyngstad's pacing is a little slower than the older translation perhaps because he is trying to be so very literal his english word count perhaps mounts a little to high. This is a small caveat however. I would rather see more of what Hamsun intended than read a free interpretation which the last translation was close to being. Lyngstad lambasts the other translations a little too much for my taste. If he didn't have his own translation to hawk his criticism would be more convincing. Like Hunger, Hamsun's first novel, Mysteries is great stuff, read it and experience a thousand miniature blind angels showering down on you.	2001-12-05
US	52774612	RRPU2Q593T53V	0899683061	71305426	Venus on the Half-Shell	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Why not?	This one by Trout is every bit as good as his classic \\"2BR02B\\" or his \\"Maniacs in the Fourth Dimension\\". (...)	2001-11-28
US	52774612	R25HA5UAKV6NKZ	0374503168	930627667	Christ Stopped at Eboli: The Story of a Year	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Year in exile	This is a memoir of a year spent in exile in 1930s facist Italy. Carlo Levi ,anti-facist, is exiled to a small poor village in southern Italy. When the villagers say Christ stopped at Eboli, a village located northeast of theirs, they mean that civilization never made it this far. Levi's prose descriptions are smooth and mostly free of authorial intrusion. He turns what could be a grim situation, after all he is a prisoner in the village, into a cherished part of his life.	2001-11-07
US	52774612	R36EWALPE21F8Y	0143039989	514925319	The Haunting of Hill House (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Supernatural literature	There are houses described in Leviticus as tsaraas \\"leprous\\" and the idea of houses that are forbidden perhaps even sacred is as old as the mind of man. Hill House is such a one and not sane. Dr. Montague rents the house because of it's reputation as being haunted. He brings together three people to stay in the house with him and be witness to the supernatural. Luke is a member of the family that owns the house, Theodora has some psychic ability, and Eleanor had experienced the supernatural as a child. These three make up Dr. Montague's team of ghostbusters. Mrs. Dudley who sets out the meals and clears table with chronological obsession warns them that she leaves before dark and that no one could hear them or come to help in the night. Jackson's literary haunted prose creates a strong sense of the macabre and of another world just about to break through if one is not careful. Often the humorous glib patter of her characters adds buoyancy to the gothically numinous atmosphere of the novel. Most of the phenomenon centers around Eleanor who experienced a sheltered existence spending eleven years taking care of her ill mother. Hill House seems to amplify her unconscious with misplaced guilt over her mother's death and a strong feeling of alienation coming to the fore. It is clear from the notes Jackson made about this novel that she intended Theodora to be a kind of double of Eleanor. They share the same room, clothes, thoughts, and most of the paranormal that Eleanor experiences Theadora undergoes as well. Jackson's immersion of the reader into the psyche of a protagonist who is mentally unstable along with a blurring of the lines between reality and the supernatural serve to disorient the reader and place the hapless peruser of her novel right in Hill House with her characters. Jackson has made The Haunting of Hill House a scrying medium to peep into the relationship between the supernatural and the unconscious. This novel raps on the walls and doors of the hallways of literature signaling itself a unique literary event.of literature signaling itself a unique literary event.	2001-10-23
US	52774612	R3Q4ESXSLR470V	0679418024	712926184	The Wind in the Willows (Everyman's Library Children's Classics Series)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Charm	Kenneth Grahame wrote this for his son and published this in book form in 1908. He has simply created a masterpiece, not just in children's literature, believe me many adults read this one with pleasure. The chapters follow the doings and adventures of Mole, Rat, Badger, and of course Toad. The prose is lyrical at times, the stories hilarious, and charm and wisdom flow from Grahame's pen. There has been many illustrators for different editions of this over the years. I like Rackham and Shepard and recommend the editions that have one or the others illustrations, or get two copies of \\"The Wind in the Willows\\"  and you can have both of these fine illustrators work to enjoy. I read this book when a child and I come back to it again and again. A. A. Milne said it best \\"One does not argue about The Wind in the Willows. The young man gives it to the girl with whom he is in love, and, if she does not like it, asks her to return his letters. The older man tries it on his nephew, and alters his will accordingly. The book is a test of character. We can't criticize it, because it is criticizing us. But I must give you one word of warning. When you sit down to it, don't be so ridiculous as to suppose that you are sitting in judgment on my taste, or on the art of Kenneth Grahame. You are merely sitting in judgment on yourself. You may be worthy: I don't know, But it is you who are on trial.\\"	2001-10-18
US	52774612	R1TF8X46DU70LX	0679732187	864447420	Absalom, Absalom! The Corrected Text	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Shadows and shades	Thomas Sutpen when he is fourteen years old knocks on the front door of a mansion and is told to go to the back door. He and his family are poor and just down from egalitarian mountains, the many class distinctions of southern plantation dynastic society stun him. Born of poor white stock in what later became West Virginia, as an adolescent he moved with his family to the Tidewater region of Virginia and for the first time saw wealthy planters. This formative experience at the age of fourteen led him to realize the social caste system of the antebellum South, and this experience led him to conceive his \\"design\\" to create a dynasty of wealth and power.<br />\\"Out of quiet thunderclap,\\" Faulkner writes of Sutpen's haunting presence in Miss Rosa's voice, \\"he would abrupt (man-horse-demon) upon a scene peaceful and decorous as a schoolprize water color, faint sulphur-reek still in hair clothes and beard\\" Sutpen with slaves and an architect \\"overrun suddenly the hundred square miles of tranquil and astonished earth and drag house and formal gardens violently out of the soundless Nothing and clap them down like cards upon a table beneath the up-palm immobile and pontific, creating the Sutpen's Hundred, the Be Sutpen's Hundred like the oldentime Be Light\\". Sutpen appears upon the \\"soundless Nothing\\" of earth like some gnostic demiurge. Distorting the invocation \\"Be Light\\" from the book of Genesis, the description of Sutpen's construction on the land 12 miles outside Jefferson shows him calling his own empire into existence with the phrase \\"Be Sutpen's Hundred\\" like a demoted godling trying to rob the creator of franchise.<br />During the war Sutpen's daughters Judith and Clytie along with Aunt Rosa form a cabal at Sutpen's Hundred like three nuns awaiting not Christ's return but Sutpen's. Judith repudiates, but fulfills the spirit of, Sutpen's design by taking in Bon's mulatto son who has yellow fever and dies nursing him. Faulkner has spun an intricate tapestry of polymathic prose. He experiments with characters becoming part of telling the story. The story is told from three views, Rosa Coldfield, Mr. Compson whos father knew Sutpen, and Quentin and Shreve who are college roomates and who tell and imagine parts of the story in their cold, cold room deep into one winter night, \\"the two of them creating between them, out of the rag-tag and bob-ends of old tales and talking, people who perhaps had never existed at all anywhere, who, shadows, were shadows not of flesh and blood which had lived and died but shadows in turn of what were (to one of them at least, to Shreve) shades too, quiet as the visible murmur of their vaporizing breath\\". Reading Absalom, Absalom! is like being lost in a maze turning corners and finding where you have been before but a little different, something added, growing dimensional jigsaw until you hit the exit panting in the cold air, the iron New England dark, saying I could go again like you have been on some phantasmagoric carnival ride.se. He experiments with characters becoming part of telling the story. The story is told from three views, Rosa Coldfield, Mr. Compson whos father knew Sutpen, and Quentin and Shreve who are college roomates and who tell and imagine parts of the story in their cold, cold room deep into one winter night, \\"the two of them creating between them, out of the rag-tag and bob-ends of old tales and talking, people who perhaps had never existed at all anywhere, who, shadows, were shadows not of flesh and blood which had lived and died but shadows in turn of what were (to one of them at least, to Shreve) shades too, quiet as the visible murmur of their vaporizing breath\\". Reading Absalom, Absalom! is like being lost in a maze turning corners and finding where you have been before but a little different, something added, growing dimensional jigsaw until you hit the exit panting in the cold air, the iron New England dark, saying I could go again like you have been on some phantasmagoric carnival ride.	2001-08-31
US	52774612	R1Q7NB61H30XEC	0679732241	161451712	The Sound and the Fury: The Corrected Text	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Dilsey	The decline of a southern family is in view here. Most of the story is told through the eyes of Caddy Compson's three brothers Benjy, Quentin, and Jason. The first section called by readers and critics the Benjy section is told through the eyes of a 33 year old mentally handicapped man. Benjy loved three things: his pasture, his sister Caddy, and firelight. Cared for by his sister (before she left home) and by the Compson's black servants, he could not speak and suffered from a strange sense of timelessness, in which the slightest sensory stimulus could trigger vivid past memories. He and the reader of this novel experience those memories as if they are still happening.<br />The Quentin section is about the day that Quentin Compson commits suicide while away at Harvard. Quentin is kind of a southern Holden Caulfield or maybe Holden is a kind of Northern Quentin Compson since The Sound and the Fury was written long before The Catcher in the Rye. Quentin and Holden are obsessed with innocence and see the changes time brings as corrupting. Quentin is tortured by the loss of innocence of his beloved sister Caddy. The Jason section is the most humorous as Jason feels he hasn't had the chances Quentin and Caddy have had and this makes him lash out. Much of these sections center, in one way or the other, around their sister Caddy. The last section is usually called the Dilsey section after the empathic Compson's black cook and housekeeper who holds the family together taking care of everyone. \\"Dilsey prepared to make biscuit. As she ground the sifter steadily above the bread board, she sang, to herself at first, something without particular tune or words, repetitive, mournful and plaintive, austere, as she ground a faint, steady snowing of flour onto the bread board. The stove had begun to heat the room and to fill it with murmurous minors of the fire, and presently she was singing louder, as if her voice too had been thawed out by the growing warmth, and then Mrs Compson called her name again from within the house. Dilsey raised her face as if her eyes could and did penetrate the walls and ceiling and saw the old woman in her quilted dressing gown at the head of the stairs, calling her name with machinelike regularity.\\" Faulkner usually doesn't write heroes into his southern gothic tragedies yet here it is certainly Dilsey that is the noble center of the world called The Sound and the Fury.called her name again from within the house. Dilsey raised her face as if her eyes could and did penetrate the walls and ceiling and saw the old woman in her quilted dressing gown at the head of the stairs, calling her name with machinelike regularity.\\" Faulkner usually doesn't write heroes into his southern gothic tragedies yet here it is certainly Dilsey that is the noble center of the world called The Sound and the Fury.	2001-08-23
US	52774612	R24UIYJ5FIXBH5	0375504524	161451712	As I Lay Dying (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Rolling Wake	\\"How often have I lain beneath rain on a strange roof, thinking of home.\\" says Darl Bundren in William Faulkner's poetic novel As I Lay Dying. Darl in describing getting a drink of water at night signals us to the prose poetry to come in this narrative \\"the still surface of the water a round orifice in nothingness where before I stirred it awake with the dipper I could see maybe a star or two in the bucket and maybe in the dipper a star or two before I drank.\\" The title of this novel comes from Homer's Odyssey. As I lay dying are words spoken by Agamemnon's shade in Hades as he recounts his homecoming murder by his wife. \\"As I lay dying the woman with the dog's eyes would not close my eyelids for me as I descended into Hades.\\" While touching on the Greek classics I will mention that this novel reminds of Sophocles' tragedy Antigone, the story of a sisters repeated attempts to bury her brother. Leaving ancient Greece we find ourselves in late 1920s Mississippi as the Bundren family prepare to take their wife and mother Addie, who is about to die, to her home town of Jefferson for burial. When she dies, early in the novel, they take the coffin by wagon and must endure flooded rivers and fire among other obstacles to get her there nine days later. I like Cash Bundren the eldest Bundren child he is a skilled carpenter and a paragon of selflessness and patience at one point he alludes to the golden rule using his carpenter language \\"Folks seems to get away from the olden right teaching that says to drive the nails down and trim the edges well always like it was for your own use and comfort you were making it.\\" The burden that the Bundrens carry in the wagon is mostly themselves, each self an onerous cargo. The story is told through multiple first person viewpoints of the family members, neighbors, and the people they meet along the way. Working the graveyard shift in a power plant Faulkner wrote this lyrical masterwork in about eight weeks scribing prose like this: \\"The sun, an hour above the horizon, is poised like a bloody egg upon a crest of thunderheads; the light has turned copper: in the eye portentous, in the nose sulphurous, smelling of lightning.\\" Hunting horn in hand Faulkner sounds the note mort in this novel. The Bundrens form a kind of rolling wake around Addie's coffin as the wagon wheels whisper a dirge in the Mississippi mud and the sky above them wears black circles in mourning.sun, an hour above the horizon, is poised like a bloody egg upon a crest of thunderheads; the light has turned copper: in the eye portentous, in the nose sulphurous, smelling of lightning.\\" Hunting horn in hand Faulkner sounds the note mort in this novel. The Bundrens form a kind of rolling wake around Addie's coffin as the wagon wheels whisper a dirge in the Mississippi mud and the sky above them wears black circles in mourning.	2001-08-13
US	52774612	R13F939IF7A99D	0679733973	697417133	The Killer Inside Me	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Explosive	I'm not sure what else I can add to what has been written about this Thompson novel . It is so good you feel almost compelled to say yes, I too have read this run-away explosive novel. Lou Ford is a sheriff who plays the dunce yet is actually a very educated and intelligent man who also just happens to be a psychopath waiting to go off like a roman candle. After events light his fuse this novel starts to run screaming down the street and begins to laugh so hard it can't stop and no that is not the reader laughing. This story is written in the classic noir pulp style, but it transcends the genre and is hard to neatly label. Don't stop with this one, Thompson has written many great reads.	2001-08-04
US	52774612	R128FJ2DBY8OE0	0679761063	255646884	The Master of Go	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Sense of reality	Kawabata is more difficult to translate into english than say someone like Mishima. He lets us view a pre-war Japan mind set that can sometimes seem a little alien to the westerner. This is his difficulty and his genius. The courtly aristocratic Go master playing against the much younger more modern challenger lets us see in microcosm the change in Japan from the pre-war aristocracy to a more egalitarian society. Kawabata is careful to show good and bad sides of both these individual Go players. Much is lost and a little is gained in this transistion for Japan. That is the impression Kawabata gives in this narrative of a late 1930s Go championship game. This novel is mostly non fiction and is told in a light aesthetic style. In reading this I am reminded a little of the 1972 Fischer vs Spassky Chess match in Iceland. The disagreements in this Go match of course were nothing to compare to that famous Chess match. The author was covering this Go match for a newspaper and he was on the scene as an eye-witness, because of this the narrative carries a sense of reality not often found in fiction. Quite simply a mesmerizing read.	2001-07-31
US	52774612	R31VXCMY04XWEN	0316769509	595009960	Nine Stories	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Blue Period	&quot;De Daumier-Smith's Blue Period&quot; is one of the nine stories in this collection. In the story Daumier-Smith has an enlightening experience and afterwards makes the statement &quot;Everybody is a nun&quot;. I originaly thought this &quot;Everybody is a nun&quot; was the same type of statement we find in F&amp;Z and Teddy about everyone being holy. I think he is saying this and more. Salinger was also saying that everyone is a unique holy person in their cloister or behind their own wall. When the shop girl in the display window starts to fall Daumier-Smith reaches out to stop her fall and his fingers hit the glass. He also realizes that she doesn't share his mind, thats why she is startled by his presence, she has a mind and life seperate from his and doesn't really know why he should be standing there looking at her. He realizes the same thing about the nun. She knows nothing of his ideas and dreams about her, she is living her own life unaware of him. In part this is a deliverance from a creeping solipsism for Daumier-Smith. The wall theme is present in &quot;For Esme&quot;. What does one wall say to the other? Meetcha at the corner. without this meeting at the corner we are either isolated behind our own wall or just solipsisticaly assume that anothers experience is the same behind their wall as our own. I think Daumier-Smith had an experience of direct seeing of the reality of other selves, their situations and feelings, an empathic moment. He has a moment of pure empathy with the shop girl in the window and this empathy changes him, bringing him out of his self involved world and letting him see others as they are. We are never told exactly what he experiences ,except his vision of the sun hurtling towards the bridge of his nose. After the experience he becomes much more accepting of himself and others, even his hopeless art students who he had formerly snobbishly judged although accurately critiqued. There are allusions in this short story to Rilke, Rodan, Picasso, and of course the French artist Honore Daumier. This is one of Salinger's funniest stories.dan, Picasso, and of course the French artist Honore Daumier. This is one of Salinger's funniest stories.	2001-07-13
US	52774612	R1DZACEB0XV332	0679733140	86553716	The Criminal	Books	4	4	4	N	N	First person chapters	This is almost an experimental novel by Thompson. It consists of short first person chapters giving you different windows, (views from different characters), on and around the same event. This event is the murder of a young girl. Finishing the book you are left unsure as to who the real criminal is and even wondering if there was any innocent person in the book. The attorney Kossmeyer, a character we see a few years later in Thompson's book \\"Kill-off\\", is probably the most moral of any of them, but there are no perfect people here. Thompson is really writing outside the box with this one and when an author does this it usually doesn't succeed. Thompson pulls this off for the most part however. You can't look for the story to be all summed up in the end. What he gives the reader is splendid windows into the minds and motivations of different characters. The priorities of the characters are laid bare, their motivations exposed and we along with some of them learn a little about what is important in life. Placed before the first chapter is a quote from \\"Romeo and Juliet\\"--- \\"There is thy gold, worse poison to men's souls, Doing more murders in this loathsome world, Than these poor compounds that thou mayst not sell. I sell thee poison, thou hast sold me none.\\" After reading this novel you will see just how well this quote fits it.	2001-06-04
US	52774612	R2RPPRVM2F3BC	0140088911	394767391	Money	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Show me the Money	&quot;Money. A Suicide Note&quot; is the incredible,  destruction of a person. John Self, is the purveyor of ''controversial TV ads for smoking, drinking, junk food and nude magazines.'' He doesn't just Self-destruct, it's like an unthinkable train wreck. Self's car is a Fiasco, Amis uses his own creative names for cars.  Amis illustrates with slick unmatched syntax, just what money does to a man. One theme leads the reader to believe that the rich are soiled kings. I oftentimes like Amis more for the way in which he says things, the lyrical quality of the writing . In &quot;Money&quot; I love his lyrics and  the themes the book deals with. You find yourself amazed at how an author can so densely pack prose with lyricism and literary meaning. &quot;Money&quot; is not a novel for in between bus stops or subway stations. If you read it in stops and starts, you'll just get frustrated and eventually want to put it aside (in fact, Amis' father Kingsley admits to not being able to get through Martin's work!). If you want a funny, smart read then tell ...(the website) to &quot;Show Me the Money&quot;, ... sorry couldn't resist.	2001-06-02
US	52774612	R1LB5IQPGCXUZ7	0553252313	152594585	Flint: A Novel	Books	4	25	26	N	N	Foot stompin good!	Three of L'amour's westerns recieved special accolades. \\"Down the Long Hills\\" recieved the golden spur in 1968. \\"Hondo\\" and \\"Flint\\" were voted in among the best 25 westerns of all time by the Western Writers Association. \\"Flint\\" is throw your hat in the air foot stompin good! L'amour's descriptions of the terrain saddle up the reader's brain pan and ride it to the Malpais lava beds in New Mexico. The action is fast and the story well and intelligently written. L'amour's \\"Flint\\" and his best western \\"Conagher\\" leave most other westerns eatin trail dust.	2001-05-25
US	52774612	R1VIGCQCUXQZFM	0553280902	238913877	Hondo: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Based on a screenplay	Louis L'amour wrote a short story that was made into the movie \\"Hondo\\". The movie was based on a screenplay ,not written by L'amour, that was quite a bit different from L'amour's short story, for instance the screen writer is the one who came up with Hondo Lane and the dog Sam. When L'amour wrote the novel Hondo he worked from the screenplay. According to Robert Weinberger's book \\"The Louis L'amour Companion\\" John Wayne told him he had never read the novel Hondo and didn't remember ever meeting L'amour, his endorsement was just for the screenplay. That being cleared up this is a pretty good western. There is a couple of laugh out loud parts in this novel. One is when one of the Apaches is telling his chief that Hondo knows their language and how much he had been insulted by Hondo in Apache. The other is when Sam his dog has been killed, to help get over it he is telling how ugly and mean the dog was he says he almost had to eat him up on the powder river once and he had<br />not looked forward to it or something to that effect, you have to read it to see the humor. L'amour's best western novel \\"Conagher\\" is also a must read.	2001-05-16
US	52774612	R25D24WCZPUCSW	0553280406	112450581	The Walking Drum: A Novel	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Not accurate history but worth a read.	I love the history in this book, unfortunately it is not all accurate. L'amour has the Moors using scimitars which didn't come into use by the Muslims until the Mongol invasions about 50 years later than the date the book takes place. He calls the land of the Franks Gaul like the Roman empire was still around. Kerbouchard knows quite a bit about the ancient Egyptians, but people then knew next to nothing about them, thinking Genies responsible for the pyramids. He depicts the Moorish women as having more freedom than that of the Franks, the exact opposite was true. The story is repetitive with a damsel and arch villian in each adventure.  All that being said it is worth a read. Also recommended is his best western \\"Conagher\\".	2001-05-15
US	52774612	RJFRQOKHHHVTZ	0876856490	616808418	The Road to Los Angeles	Books	5	17	19	N	Y	Superman	&#34;The Road to Los Angeles&#34; is Fante's first novel. He began it in 1933 and finished in 1936. The publishers rejected it and it was published about 50 years later by Black Sparrow press after the authors death. This is Fante's best novel and one of the funniest most enjoyable books I have read to date. Reading this is a wonder and a revelation, the prose raw and fresh, honest and hilarious. The story follows Arturo Bandini, a prideful fool of an eighteen year old as he makes his way in 1930s California. He lives with his mother and sister, works in a cannery, and aspires to be a great writer. Arturo has read too many books and has got hold of some bad philosophy. Fante uses this to poke fun at the Third Reich and Nietsche's &#34;superman&#34; weltanschauung (worldview), which the befuddled Arturo pontificates every chance he gets. At the point when Nietzsche loses his mind he is said to have been watching a man whip an old horse, Nietzsche burst into tears and hugs the horse weeping uncontrollably. Fante uses this when in the book Arturo sees an old hunchback woman smiling in the park, his eyes drenched he carries her basket for her. After feeling pure empathy for her life and pain he says goodbye to Nietzsche and Schopenhauer and runs home and apologizes to his mother. This doesn't last of course and he goes back to being the same old Arturo. Early in the novel he enacts a hilarious though disturbing blood purge ,&#34;for the good of the Fatherland&#34;, against some crabs he imagined had questioned the might of Superman Bandini. Later in the book at times when he is down on himself he refers to himself as a crab killer. Arturo seems to be asking us and possibly himself, taking a line from 3 Doors Down, &#34;If I go crazy then will you still Call me Superman?&#34; Ultimately like most of us often are Superman Bandini is his own kryptonite.	2001-04-12
US	52774612	R2TYQMSWEAUY56	0316769568	595009960	Nine Stories	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Esme's compassion	The story &quot;For Esme with Love and Squalor&quot; is one of the nine stories in this collection. I remember a critic who wrote that &quot;Esme&quot;, the story, was a gloss on the Dostoevski quote Sergeant X writes down. I bought into this at first. With closer reading I find I disagree with this. The quote Sergeant X writes is a way of reaching out and communicating to the Nazi lady,(Salinger actually married a Nazi lady he had arrested after the war, divorce soon followed.), and combating her idea that life is hell with the idea from Dostoevski that hell is the suffering of being unable to love. This latter idea, no matter how true, will not save the Nazi lady. For one thing she will never read it. Also ideas do not save people. Sergeant X realizes this failed attempt when he looks down and the quote is illegible and his own misery is very mich intact. When he reads the letter from Esme, who we remember has been training herself to be more compassionate, this person to person compassion is redemptive for him. Esme has trained herself to surmount her own wall long enough to meet others at the corner where compassion is possible. In the christian story, for example, it is not ideas or doctrine that save people. It takes a person to save a person, as Esme in a very real way saves Sergeant X with her compassion. Salinger participated in five of the major campaigns in WW2 Europe. This story gives you a glimpse of the toll that can take on a man. Thankyou to Salinger and all the others who fought for their country during the war.	2001-01-08
US	52774612	RVPLYMHHDOXU9	0805211063	969973930	The Castle	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Enigmatic	I have read the Muir and the Harman translations and I feel the Harman version is a restoration of Kafka's Castle to the english language. Sentences are often long and punctuation sparse, this brings out the intended atmosphere of the novel which is close to surreal. The literary critics have posited numerous interpretations of the Castle but beware about becoming too dogmatic about any of them. This novel defies easy explanation and is purposely enigmatic. K. experiences many setbacks, switchbacks, and confusions on his trail to his goal, even his goal is an enigma to himself. Just as in life when we believe we have the answers disillusion is not far behind, K.'s struggles are thwarted and he thinks he's getting somewhere only to find he must constantly re-assess his position.  It is so appropriate that this novel ends in mid sentence.	2001-01-07
US	52774612	RE6QBKQ85EUDR	0679760806	778351106	The Master and Margarita	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	Goodness and forgiveness	Master and Margarita is a riotous fun spree of a novel. It's also more, Bulgakov's masterpiece is also a statement about the essential goodness of people and the healing of forgiveness. From Yeshua saying &quot;goodman&quot; to everyone and his belief that there are no evil people on earth to Margarita at the ball letting all the ages past killers kiss her knee, the themes of essential goodness of people and forgiveness sound out from Bulgakov's prose.  There has been much discussion of translations in the reviews at Amazon. The Glenny is a translation while the Ginsburg, Burgin, and Pervear versions are more like transliterations. True, Glenny mis-translates mineral water as lemonade and makes a few minor mis-steps but his translation flows. The other versions  are good word by word accurate efforts. If you can't read the original Russian don't get hung up on finding the perfect translation, there isn't one. Grab a copy and read.	2000-12-28
US	52774612	R2XKLDS4QKFBZ4	0156678977	331643010	Of Other Worlds: Essays and Stories	Books	5	13	17	N	N	The Shoddy Lands	&quot;Of Other Worlds&quot;  has nine essays, three short stories, and part of a novel by Lewis. I would like to comment here on one of Lewis's best stories which is included in this collection, it's called &quot;The Shoddy Lands&quot;. The story begins with a former pupil, Durward, coming to see his old professor at Oxford with fiance, Peggy, in tow. During the conversation the professor looks at Peggy and finds himself suddenly in a different world. In this world most things are blurry or shoddy and only a few things are distinct. The women's shops, some men's faces, and women's clothing are seen distinctly. He discovers a giant idealized version of Peggy in a swim suit which she then takes off and admiringly looks at her own body in a mirror. He hears knocking and two voices coming from outside the shoddy world. One voice sounds like Durward, and upon hearing the other his bones turned to water. This voice said &quot;Child, child, child let me in before the night comes&quot;. The old professor returns to the room and is drunk with sheer delight at being back in the real world. For just a few seconds he has been allowed into Peggy's mind, to see her world as it exists for her. This is a tale not only about Peggy's limited self centered world , but about the shoddy world we all experience in a mind un-mediated by a higher reference.  I definitely recommend this collection of essays and stories by Lewis.	2000-11-05
US	52774612	R1SV578AVQLLIC	0965881199	639689366	The Diaries of Adam and Eve: Translated by Mark Twain	Books	5	40	40	N	N	A loving good heart	Twain long had an interest in Adam and Eve. His renewed focus on Adam and Eve in 1893 was touched off by his writing calendar maxims for Pudd'nhead Wilson, in which the Edenic couple appear. After that novel, he began Extracts from Adam's Diary, and followed that with Eve's Diary.  Now Don E. Roberts has collected these writings along with four others by Twain that concern the Edenic pair in one narrative. For many readers familiar only with Twain's tales about mischievous boys or cranky characters, this work, one of the great love stories of all time, will come as a real surprise. Whether you're interested in Twain or not, if your heart hasn't atrophied, you will love The Diaries of Adam and Eve. Roberts's profound love of the art of the book is evident in every detail, from the illustrated dust jacket, which features a rare 1902 Thomas Marr photograph of Twain at Quarry Farm on the back; to the Smythe sewn binding in gold-stamped Kennett cloth; to the high-quality printing on acid-free paper; to the eight beautiful illustrations commissioned specifically for this volume. I have the book and the CD. If you are just going to get one I would suggest the CD because of Betty Buckley's superb performance reading Eve's part. Twain translated Eve as saying &quot;a loving good heart is riches, and riches enough&quot;. After reading this fine volume I'm inclined to agree with her.	2000-10-17
US	52774612	RPMUUSQKPIILE	0898707447	711455914	The Annotated Thursday: G.K. Chesterton's Masterpiece, the Man Who Was Thursday	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Gardner strikes right balance	Gardner's introduction and afterword are great assets to understanding &quot;The Man who was Thursday&quot;. There are less notes on this text than say Gardner's edition of &quot;Alice&quot; but you really can't compare the annotation of two such diverse texts.  Note 5 in chapter two lists Joseph Chamberlain's birth as 1876 instead of 1836 which makes him younger than his sons whose birth dates are listed in the same annotation. I assume this is a typo in the print set-up, books are rushed out so fast these days I seem to find mistakes of fact in almost everything I read.  For the most part I enjoyed the notes and didn't find them too obtrusive on Chesterton's wonderful masterpiece. Copious annotation can sometimes overpower a text and delve too deeply into the opinions of the annotater. Gardner, with his notes,  strikes just the right balance here.  Several years ago I had the opportunity to correspond with Mr. Gardner concerning research on a book he was writing at the time. I was left with the impression of a man who is markedly thorough in his research as well as being a fine gentleman.  &quot;The Annotated Thursday&quot; is the edition of Chesterton's classic to own.	2000-09-22
US	52774612	R2AMCAIG3H5VV7	0671880187	536943079	Kitchen	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Fresh air	Yoshimoto has a minimalist, haiku-like prose style in this, her first  novel. &quot;Kitchen&quot; is charmingly simple and yet touches the depths  of human suffering as well as stirring in a few cups of joyous experience.  Mikage Sakurai loves kitchens and has lost the last of her family. From  there embark into this most excellent novel and when you turn the last page  of &quot;Kitchen&quot;, the urge to start again at page one, to keep  contact with these characters, simmers inside you.... &quot;The place I  like best in this world is the kitchen.&quot;  Appended at the end of the  novel &quot;Kitchen&quot;, like a mint after a fine meal, is the short  story &quot;Moonlight Shadow&quot;. This is a nice story, but it is not of  the same calibre as &quot;Kitchen&quot;.  In &quot;Kitchen&quot;, Yoshimoto  provides a recipe for fresh air in the often staid literary world.	2000-08-21
US	52774612	R383QZSV8BIOOU	0140184937	588275666	Our Man in Havana: An Entertainment (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A fun romp	This is really a fun book to read. Greene makes light of spying during the cold war. Wormold a vacuum cleaner dealer is recruited as a spy for the British in pre-Castro Cuba. He invents his information to keep the  goverment money coming for his daughter who has expensive tastes. Wormold  turns in drawings of vacuum cleaner parts as part of an imaginary secret  installation in Cuba and invents sub-agents that all have to be paid. There  is even a moral thrown in, people and families over goverments and  ideologies. Good stuff!	2000-07-22
US	52774612	R163K2OT9L4UZG	0140060898	329849771	The Mosquito Coast (Penguin Essentials)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	People are more important than our ideas	Paul Theroux's descriptive talents are on display in this page turner. His  description of the Honduran jungle and the characters encountered there are  first rate. Allie Fox ,the father, who goes from being a little crazy to  full blown lunacy over the course of the book actually makes sense with  some of his ravings, but he makes the mistake of putting ideas before  people and lifting his own mind above compassion. The story is told through  the eyes of Allie's son Charlie. Early in the story Charlie sees some  migrant workers at night lift up a scarecrow on a cross in a field. He  believes that it is his father on the cross. Toward the end of the novel an  injured Allie on learning that they are back at the coast:  &quot;Vultures,&quot; he said, and then the terrible sentence, &quot;Christ  is a scarecrow!&quot; At one point Allie had said that vultures reminded  him of human beings. I touch on these aspects of the novel because they may  help to explain the bizarre ending with Allie and the vultures.  This is  one of those rare novels that can be read again and again. I enjoyed it  immensely! Well worth the trip to Theroux's Mosquito coast.  Also  recommended: &quot;The Old Patagonian Express&quot; by Paul Theroux.	2000-07-08
US	52774612	R372LDMVKGV5OZ	0140430407	992467602	Puddnhead Wilson : And, Those Extraordinary Twins (The Penguin English Library)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Superb Puddn	Twain was interested in twins and the problem of identity. His pen name &quot;Twain&quot; is an archaic word meaning two. In this enertaining novel he starts out to write about siamese twins who are opposites in taste and  temperment, a humorous farce. As he gets on with the story other themes and  characters develop and he decides to pull the twins apart, making them  ordinary twins, and develop the story into a comedic tragedy. Twain leaves,  for whatever reason, plenty of evidence in the story that the twins were  siamese. The twins speak of themselves as an only child, are always  together even in bed, and are exhibited in Europe for two years when they  were children. One twin when explaining why he risked himself to save his  brother from murder says &quot;If I had let the man kill him, wouldn't he  have killed me, too?. I saved my own life you see.&quot;  The larger part  of the story fixes on Puddnhead Wilson, a local unemployed lawyer, and  focuses on the pattern of a folktale of switched infants: the slave child  becoming master and the master's child a slave. Roxy, an almost pure white  slave,  switches her baby for her masters baby so that her boy will escape  slavery. Early in the story Tom Driscoll learns that he is really Valet de  Chambers a slave and not the son of the leading citizen York Driscoll.  Twain uses this novel to slam the stupidity and evil of slavery as well as  throw some light and mockery on other foolery of society. Wilson sorts  things out due to his passion for finger printing over the years.  Sayings  from Puddnhead Wilson's calender preface every chapter and are highly  enertaining. At the conclusion of this superb novel Puddnhead Wilson comes  out on top, but he is about the only one. Possibly Twain's most honest  book, a masterpiece!	2000-06-28
US	52774612	R3DZA1WJRD473M	0965881164	639689366	The Diaries of Adam & Eve: Translated by Mark Twain	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Innocence	Eve trying to knock a few stars down with a long pole and failing this throwing dirt clods up trying to accomplish the same was one of my favorite parts of this CD. Twain's writing is very funny and the performers are  excellent on this audio version of the Diaries.  Adam is sure that Cain is  a fish and then later maybe a new kind of bear. He hunts all over for  another one and then one day he comes home and Eve has caught another one  (Abel), right at home.  Full of innocence and light comedy.	2000-06-23
US	52774612	R1JJWESVMLIUQT	039575514X	584095688	My Antonia	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Beautiful	H. L. Mencken said &quot;No romantic novel ever written in America, by man or woman, is one half so beautiful as My Antonia.&quot; I agree whole heartedly! Cather's description of the prairie, the endless red grass, and  the vast space that could swallow a person is masterful. Here is her  description of the sun setting behind a plough. &quot;On some upland farm,  a plough had been left standing in a field. The sun was sinking just behind  it. Magnified across the distance by horizontal light, it stood out against  the sun, was exactly contained within the circle of the disk; the handles,  the tongue, the share -- black against the molten red. There it was, heroic  in size, a picture writing on the sun.&quot;  The novel is slow paced, in  fact it moves at the pace of another time and place, the 19th century  Nebraska prairie. Slow down and read, it's well worth it.  In the  introduction by a friend of Jim Burden he says &quot;We agreed that no one  who had not grown up in a little prairie town could know anything about it.  It was a kind of freemasonry, we said.&quot; Cather raises the reader to  master mason of the prairie in this novel, the most beautiful I have ever  read.	2000-05-17
US	52774612	RIY1GDRIPQE99	0826407943	134895582	Jesus the Healer: Possession, Trance, and the Origins of Christianity	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A Classic in Historical Jesus Studies	When this book first came out it was attacked by some critics. I think this was for a couple of reasons. Davies denies the &quot;Teacher&quot; model as a primary explanation for who Jesus was and he posits that some of  the Jesus sayings in the Gospel of John may stem from early sources and  possibly Jesus himself. When I first read this book that latter contention  rankled me. After all New Testament scholarship usually assumes all low  christology to be early and high christology to be late. This works when we  consider Mark the earliest gospel because Mark's Jesus is more human there  than other gospel presentations of him. There is much good evidence that  Mark is earlier than Matthew or Luke and that parts of John are late. The  rub here is that Paul wrote before any of this and his christology is very  high. It could be that parts of John come from a source or tradition that  is early. Davies doesn't try to defend that here because that would be a  book in itself and there is just not enough evidence, so far at least, to  link pericopes from John to an earlier independent source or tradition.  Davies view of the Historical Jesus as a spirit possessed healer brings to  mind studies of primitive people and their various trance states. These  trance like altered states of consciousness have been found in so many  different primitive cultures even in modern times. Jesus's followers  believed he had the spirit of god in him and later after his death they  sought to have Jesus's spirit come into them and encouraged others to let  Jesus's spirit enter them and dwell inside them.  Historical Jesus books  come and go and many,(most), are forgotten in a few years. I think perhaps  this monograph by Davies just might be regarded as a classic some day.	2000-05-10
US	52774612	R38PFLBOA3KGW7	0316769533	862964341	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Smoke Gets in your Eyes	Phoebe gets on the carrousel at the end of The Catcher in the Rye and suddenly the carrousel is the rye field with the kids playing in it. Only this time instead of Holden, (Hold-on), wanting to catch any kids that  fall, even though he is afraid of Phoebe falling as she reaches for the  gold ring, he decides not to do or say anything because if they want to  grab for the gold ring,(grow up), you have to let them.  Holden at the end  here is no longer the catcher or savior Christ figure. In fact in a way he  is more of a Buddha figure sitting there feeling so damn happy, having a  Satori-like experience of acceptance of change and impermanence very much  the same insight as Siddhartha sitting under the Bodhi tree. Suddenly, as  it rains like a bastard on Holden, the carrousel changes from rye field to  the great wheel of birth and death with Phoebe, Holden, Salinger, and all  the rest of us holding on and going round and round. ((( )))  Somewhat  speculative I know but I do know this much. Those literary critics who  can't see the carrousel as the rye field are going to miss a little too  much.  Oh and it's no accident that the song &quot;Smoke gets in your  Eyes&quot; is playing on the carrousel. Here are the words to the song for  those who don't know it.  THEY ASKED ME HOW I KNEW....  MY TRUE LOVE WAS  TRUE?  I OF COURSE REPLIED, SOMETHING HERE INSIDE,  CANNOT BE DENIED,  THEY  SAID SOMEDAY YOU'LL FIND,  ALL WHO LOVE ARE BLIND,  WHEN YOUR HEART'S ON  FIRE, YOU MUST REALIZE,  SMOKE GETS IN YOUR EYES,  SO I CHAFFED THEM AND I  GAYLY LAUGHED,  TO THINK THEY COULD DOUBT MY LOVE,  YET, TODAY, MY LOVE HAS  FLOWN AWAY,  I AM WITHOUT MY LOVE,  NOW, LAUGHING FRIENDS DERIDE,  TEARS I  CANNOT HIDE,  SO I SMILE AND SAY, WHEN A LOVELY FLAME DIES.....  SMOKE GETS  IN YOUR EYES.	2000-05-10
US	52774612	R3F0P7WO5CLULN	0679724753	877262582	Out of Africa: and Shadows on the Grass	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Living breathing prose	If your not interested in Baroness Blixen or Africa, still read this one. Read for the beautiful descriptive prose of Isak Dinesen. She seems to want us to experience the prose, just as she experienced life on a coffee farm in the Ngong hill country of Africa.  There is a grace about Baroness  Blixen that is difficult to describe. One really doesn't know where the  grace comes from, yet it wafts up out of the prose, greeting us as an  esteemed friend, and inviting us to stay awhile on the Ngong hills.	2000-05-09
US	52774612	R175FT1PX21KDZ	0374521352	689616208	The Dwarf	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Fine Literature	This story, narrated by the court dwarf, gets us at once into his attitudes and prejudices: that he is nobody's fool and will not act like a buffoon to entertain people; that he admires the Prince he serves but  doesn't really understand him; that he has a huge ego and plenty of  defensiveness, as if he were always expecting ridicule.  He hates being  treated like a child and being forced to play with the Princess, so he  takes revenge by decapitating her pet kitten.  Yes the dwarf is evil! He  symbolically embodies the evil in the Prince and he reminds the reader of  the dwarf, (evil), that is in all of us. The dwarf is a real character in  the story, but he at the same time is allegoric.<br />In the extraordinary  scene where dwarfs act out a communion service, he says, &quot;I eat his  body which was deformed like yours. It tastes bitter as gall, it is full of  hatred.&quot; Then he throws the wine over the Prince's guests who are  watching this entertainment.  While dwarfs in some stories evoke  compassion and pity, this narrator is quite unlikable--full of himself and  quick to criticize others. His unrelenting and angry voice bitterly blames  those who have hurt him--just about everyone. But he understands a deep  psychological fact: that people who are afraid of dwarfs are really scared  by &quot;the dwarf within them . . . who sticks up its head from the depths  of their souls.&quot;  I think &quot;The Dwarf&quot; by Par Lagerkvist  is a really great book stylistically, artistically, and very funny at times  once you get past having to see everything from the dwarf's perspective.  Lagerkvist won the Nobel Prize for literature in 1951 and &quot;The  Dwarf&quot; is widely regarded as his greatest novel. Excellent!	2000-04-07
US	52774612	R3AECSK972800D	0679735879	628163864	The Unconsoled	Books	2	4	8	N	N	I am unconsoled with this book!	I read 300 pages of Ishiguro's &quot;Unconsoled&quot; and had to give up.  The novel is set up like a dream or nightmare, depending on your point of view. Me I just wanted to wake-up! The dream state that Ishiguro had his main character Ryder in becomes a vehicle for any indulgence or mistake by  the author.  Kafka summed up the absurd in quite fewer pages and much  better in The Trial. Kafka keeps your heart beating with K.'s breathless  anxiety. The Unconsoled is a page turner, but dead-pan, emotionless, and  lifeless. No doubt Ishiguro intended this since he is working with the  dream state. I kind of felt like a zombie turning the pages after awhile.  For me it had me wondering why I was making the trip and spending the time  to read it, not a good sign. The only person unconsoled at the end of this  novel is the reader. That being said, Ishiguro's &quot;The Artist of the  Floating World&quot; was very good.	2000-04-06
US	52774612	R31E4SP6EDU81O	0802130208	161411385	A Confederacy of Dunces	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Hilarious	This book gets better every time I read it. Toole develops the characters wonderfully and the dialogue is tremendous. Ignatius is a man born in the wrong century and he gives a good funny critique of this one. Although Fortuna spins his wheel down through most of the book, at the end it takes  an upward turn. This is the only book J K Toole wrote as an adult so savor  this one fine read. There is an e mail discussion group on this book.  Order this one now. You will find  yourself reading and re-reading this classic.	1999-12-10
US	52774612	R36SCZ58SZ6XVT	0862411629	877593207	The Haunted Woman (Canongate Classic)	Books	5	17	19	N	Y	Ulf's Tower	A haunted woman would be incomplete without a haunted house and this one is called Runhill Court.<br />Dating from around the sixth century it was called Rune-Hill after the saxon &#34;runes&#34; which were<br />engraved letters to keep off trolls. Lindsay shows a refreshing minimalism in number of main characters<br />with Isbel Loment and her aunt Mrs Moor who have been hotel hopping rounded out by her fianc&eacute;<br />Marshall Stokes and the owner of Runhill Court Henry Judge along with a scheming<br />widow Mrs Richborough. The house features a staircase that appears and disappears leading<br />to long gone rooms that seem to exist now in another dimension.<br />The missing rooms and the original house were built by a man named Ulf.<br />&#34;When Ulf built his house, Miss Loment, it was on haunted land. Run Hill was<br />a waste elevation, inhabited by trolls--which, I figure, were a<br />variety of malevolent land-sprites. Ulf didn't care, though he _was_ a<br />pagan. He built his house. I gather he was a tough fellow, away above<br />the superstitions of his time and country. And--well, one day Ulf<br />disappears and a part of his house with him. Some of the top rooms of<br />the Tower were clean carried off by the trolls; it happened to be the<br />east end of the house, the nearest to their happy hunting-grounds.<br />That was the very last that was heard of Ulf, but all through the<br />centuries folks have been jumping up to announce that they've caught<br />sight of the lost rooms...That's the fable.&#34;<br />For the ones who can see the appearing staircase, for not all are so sighted, ascending<br />the stairs leads to rooms in which you can visualize your true self, the true self of others,<br />and peer into the world of the sublime a springtime world where Ulf or some agent of<br />the numinous and sublime plays a fiddle like instrument that beckons the hearers to<br />a real life that has all but been smothered in our modern day world of sham and pretense.<br />This is certainly a mysterious novel which is the least you can say about a narrative<br />that at one point has a ghost riding in a car but this is not a ghostly depiction of the sublime<br />world by Lindsay as he said in some philosophical notes of his &#34;The sublime world<br />must not be imagined as thin, incorporeal, and grey -- a land of ghosts and phantoms,<br />but as far more real and solid than this coloured, cubic, and heavy world of ours.&#34;<br />One thing Lindsay's &#34;The Haunted Woman&#34; makes certain -- Not all can look on the<br />face of the sublime and live and none can remain unchanged.	1999-11-30
US	52774612	R6MQSKI8I2WDB	1569750955	291853571	Unearthing the Lost Words of Jesus: The Discovery and Text of the Gospel of Thomas (Seastone series)	Books	4	110	132	N	N	The complete unearthing story!	&quot;. It contains a very complete story of the finding of GThomas and follows the ms to initial publication. There are photographs and a couple of maps in this first section. The text is done very much in the same style  as Borgs recent &quot;The Lost Gospel Q&quot; and it features a few notes  by J. D. Crossan. Also by Crossan, a five page commentary at the end called  &quot;Paradise Regained&quot;, where his emphasis is on the protology of  and asceticism in GThomas. This is packaged for the general public but is  worth the price for the 8 photographs, 2 small maps, and the complete  &quot;unearthing&quot; story.	1998-11-19
