US	52778107	R1VF9LJ2RO33CJ	0312995059	409197252	Kane and Abel	Books	5	120	126	N	N	One of my all time favorites	The main reason I am writing this is to warn you against reading Matt Hetling's review because he gives away the whole  secret/climax of the book. I can't believe it got past Amazon. Don't reviewers know not to give away the ending and secrets? Sometimes I'm afraid to read reviews for that very reason.<br /><br />I won't give a description of the book since so many others have, but I will say it's one of my all time favorites. I thought it was outstanding.<br /><br />Pam	2005-07-31
US	52778107	R3NJQ27Z8GQX2I	1413705855	48394851	Blood Moon	Books	4	2	2	N	N	My Favorite Monsters Are Back Again	It's not often I get to read a book with all my favorite monsters: Vampires, werewolves, ghouls, zombies, Immortals, and an obnoxious cat, to name a few. It's even less often that I catch myself laughing through that same book. There is a wonderful mixture or horror and humor here that appeals to me and keeps me turning the pages. There is also a romance that is just heating up and I hope continues to in the next book. I don't want to rush the authors or put any pressure on them but when is the next book coming out!!!! I'm waiting! ;)	2004-11-08
US	52778107	R3QWHN4R8T6VLL	1413713106	990822194	In the Midnight Of His Heart	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	I Loved This Book!	In the Midnight of His Heart taught me a valuable lesson. I confess to being a book length snob. If a book doesn't have at least 300 pages, I don't bother with it.  This book has 204 but it reads like a 300-400 page novel. The characterization is wonderful. This is important to me because I like to know the person I am reading about. John Sig became a friend. While not your typical hero, I was able to forget for long stretches at a time what he was capable of doing; what he loved doing.<br /><br />\\"Everything you were, everything you are, everything you could have had, all of it gone.\\" This was the curse that John lived with for thirty-five years. With those words his Metastasis left him and his way of life was shattered. He lived a lonely existence and wished for death more than once. Then he met Angie, a waitress at a cafe, and fell in love. He knew he didn't stand a chance with her because he was an old man and she a young woman. His only friend, Phil, was appalled that he was interested in her because they had to keep a low profile. I will only add that Phil and John aren't human. Read the book to find out why John was cursed and exactly what he and Phill are. You will be glad you did.	2004-11-08
US	52778107	R3JWWPRLLRIT5Q	0312992424	454259013	Night Play (Dark-Hunter, Book 6)	Books	4	170	176	N	Y	Regarding reviewers' prejudice of  Bride being a size 18	I had no intention of reading any of the Dark Hunter books because I thought they would be too mushy and full of sex for my tastes. I happened to read the reviews and was livid over some of the remarks. These reviewers didn't like Bride being a size 18 because that's . . .uh . . .obese. I bought the book and expected to read about a huge woman waddling across the room crying over her weight all through the book. Nothing could be further from the truth.<br /><br />Vane, a were-hunter, had just lost his sister. His brother  retreated into a coma in wolf form after he and Vane escaped death at their father's command. Vane's mother hated him and also tried to kill him. Having never known parental love nor  acceptance from anybody but his sister and brother, Vane was feeling pretty low and hopeless when he saw Bride. He was attracted to her and found himself in her store. Bride was flabbergasted at the attention he was giving her because he was the best looking man she had ever seen. Of course she was going to worry about her size, but she did NOT moan and groan about it any more than was normal. Of course she wanted to be smaller and felt inferior. The reviewer who would like to lose ten pounds has no idea how a size 18 feels. Bride knew there were a lot of people out there like a couple of the reviewers and she couldn't believe he would love her for herself. Gasp! Perish the thought!<br /><br />Though I thought the first sex scene happened too fast, I enjoyed the book and plan to get the rest of the books in the series. I don't like sex overkill (think the last 3 Anita Blake books ) but I did like this book. Too bad there aren't more Vanes walking around. Maybe there wouldn't be so many people with body image hang-ups.	2004-10-15
US	52778107	RHBAUD9PX07VE	0741405563	328081149	The Dead	Books	5	20	23	N	Y	WOW! I couldn't put it down	This is not your typical Christian fiction book. I tried to read it in one sitting but had to finally go to bed in the wee hours this morning.I grabbed it as soon as I got up and started reading it with my first cup of coffee. This book has everything: zombies, demons, the rapture, believers, atheists, horror, and gore; lots and lots of gore. It definitely isn't for the squeamish. It's been a long time since a book grabbed me like this.<br />After the rapture, demons possess the bodies of the dead and earth is transformed into hell. The living try to escape but are usually brought down by the dead. Nobody gets an easy death. They are usually tortured, bit, and finally strangled to death. After a certain length of time, they rise up to join the dead in chasing down other survivors. The group of people we follow are a mixed bunch. One is a priest, another a<br />self proclaimed savedChristian, and the rest are atheists and those unsure as to what they believe. As they run from thousands of demons we get to see the changes they go through. Their lives are changed and they see a side of themselves that they never acknowledged before now.<br />I was glued to the book until I finished it. Unlike another reader, I thought the ending was very good and worth the read. If typos and mistakes bother you, all I can say is get over it. I admit there are way too many mistakes but it has nothing to do with the story. This book is too good to miss.	2003-06-16
US	52778107	R7SXBP89TFE7Y	0425188361	549489959	Cerulean Sins (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 11)	Books	1	17	20	N	Y	Another Disappointment	Sex, sex, and more sex. I am so disappointed in what LKH has done with her characters and why she insists on throwning<br />away the very things that made me love this series. As far as I'm concerned, the last two books were not about Anita Blake and the monsters, they were about Anita Blake having sex. I used to be her biggest fan but no more. I will say she is a fantastic writer and I loved the first nine books. In fact, they are my all time favorite books. That's why I'm so upset with the last two books. I feel like I have lost a close friend.	2003-05-08
US	52778107	R2O7FICIVBBTSG	055357695X	300066811	Out of the Shadows: A Bishop/Special Crimes Unit Novel	Books	5	23	24	N	N	This is another winner in the Shadow series	This third book in the Shadow Series is another winner. Sheriff Miranda Knight and her younger sister, Bonnie, aren't what they seem. That is, they are in hiding in the small town of Gladstone. Both sisters are powerful psychics but nobody knows it. Eight years before a violent serial killer turned their world upside down when Miranda used her gift to help the FBI hunt him down. Instead, he escaped capture and Miranda fled with Bonnie. She changed their names and became sheriff of a small town that appeared innocent on the surface. Unfortunately, another killer was in town and teenagers were showing up dead and mutilated. Miranda called in the FBI and  was once again working with FBI profiler, Noah Bishop. Miranda tries to keep<br />her distance because he had betrayed her eight years before when they were  working on the case together. She had been in love with him then and didn't want to let him touch her heart again. Though he is also a powerful psychic, he can't read Miranda because of the walls she has built around herself.<br />This was a page turner for me, just like the other books in the series. Suspense builds as each new body is revealed as well as the personal relationship between Miranda and Bishop. I'm in the process of buying every book I can find by Hooper.She has become an automatic buy for me.	2002-04-18
US	52778107	R1VIX49V7JAZVF	0671003364	792256877	Ransom	Books	5	52	57	N	N	A Real Reading Pleasure	This was my second Garwood book and I loved it just as much as the first one (The Secret). This time Brodick Buchanon and Ramsey Sinclair from The Secret are the heroes with a brief appearance by Judith and Iain. In a plot to kidnap Ramsey's younger brother, Iain and Judith's son, Alec, is taken by mistake. Lucky for him, a young woman, Gillian,is also being held. Baron Alford believes she knows where a certain box belonging to King John is and he will stop at nothing to get it first. After beating Gillian and threatening her uncle's life, she is sent to find her sister. When Baron Alford killed her father when she was a child, she and her sister were given the box and sent into hiding. The two children were separated and Gillian never saw her again. If she didn't find the box and return it, Baron Alford threatened to torture and kill her uncle. Knowing that Alec's true identity would cause the baron to kill him, she escapes with him and hands him over to Brodick.  Of course it was attraction at first sight and the fun begins here. There were many humorous parts and I loved seeing Gillian stand up to Brodick at every turn. There was a secondary romance between Ramsey and Bridgit that could have very easily been made into its own book. These two books have made me a big fan of Julie Garwood.	2002-04-13
US	52778107	R30L2J7SSA5P3E	0553576925	869801684	Hiding in the Shadows: A Bishop/Special Crimes Unit Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An excellent book I couldn't put down!	Wow! I can't imagine anybody not liking this book. I was pulled in from the very beginning and read it almost straight through. Needless to say, I'm going straight to the next book in the series.<br />Faith Parker is in a terrible automobile accident that puts her in a coma. Her only visitor Dinah, an investigative reporter, disappears several weeks before Faith wakes up with amnesia. All alone in the world, Faith begins having dreams about Dinah and Dinah's boyfriend, Kane. Realizing she is somehow connected to Dinah's disappearance, she joins forces with Kane and a psychic FBI agent, Noah Bishop, to find out what happened to her friend. Frustrated because she can't remember anything, she continues having dreams and hearing Dinah's voice in her head. Through her psychic link with Dinah, she follows the clues in a mad race to save her before she is killed. I thought the book was good from the first page to the last.	2002-04-13
US	52778107	R3EMFRO0WHF6EJ	0671744216	986944205	The Secret	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A pleasure to read	This was my first Garwood book but it wont be my last. I loved everything about it. There was just enough conflict between the hero and heroine, the hero was just arrogant enough, the heroine just independent enough. Judith Hampton was an English woman who had been lied to all of her life. Her mother and uncle had told her stories about her father being a dead English hero. When she was eleven years old, her aunt told her the truth. Judiths mother had married a Scottish warrior who kicked her out when he found out she was pregnant with his child. For this reason her mother had very little to do with Judith and was usually not around while Judith was growing up.  Left with her uncle who was crippled in an accident, Judith learned to stay out of his reach when he was drunk and feeling mean. She lived with him six months of the year and another aunt and uncle the other six. While a four year old child staying with her aunt and uncle, she met a Scottish girl, Frances Catherine, who became a lifelong cherished friend. While they were children, Judith promised Frances Catherine she would come be with her when she had her first child. When Frances Catherines brother-in-law goes to England with his warriors to get Judith, she is met with their disdain for England and its people. It is also the first time she lays eyes on Iain Maitland, lord of his clan. The attraction between the two is instant.  Used to being ignored and considered insignificant, Judith isnt surprised by the hostility she is met with by  her escort or the citizens in Scotland. It was fun reading how she dealt with all of them and especially Iain, a man who had never been in love and thought it a weakness.<br />I am going to read the sequel now and hope it is as good. This book is a keeper for all lovers of romance.	2002-04-08
US	52778107	R2YH5LU5DR0TS3	0505524724	402574196	Sacrament (Candleglow)	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	I Loved The Characters	When I first started Sacrament, I was impatient for the romance and vampire side of the story to begin. As I kept reading, I found myself getting caught up in the characters' lives and caring about them. Sarah is a very interesting heroine and the hero, Julian Davenoff,is the thing fantasies are made of. Tall, dark, brooding, and handsome, he oozes sex appeal. Sarah's friend, Corrine, had me wanting to strangle her. I couldn't figure out why Sarah stayed friends with her because she was self centered and cared nothing for anybody's feelings but her own. She proved to be quite ruthless in obtaining what she wanted.<br />In the beginning, it is Corrine who wants Julian, and she does everything she can to snare him. Meanwhile, Julian has produced a deed to Sarah's family home and she believes he will steal it out from under her. Her own deed has conveniently disappeared and she suspects Julian of having it stolen. As a result, their relationship starts out on shaky ground.<br />If you want a book with pages of graphic sex scenes and vampires attacking humans on every other page, you've got the wrong book. Instead, this book concentrates on Sarah and her relationship with Corrine and issues she has with her past. We also see how Sarah's relationship with Julian undergoes a change due to Corrine's actions. Last, but not least, we get to know Julian and come to care for him. I recommend this book very highly.	2002-04-01
US	52778107	R3NCM1GRSZM6Q3	0505523892	406492827	Dark Magic (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 4)	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	My favorite of the series so far	Dark Magic is the fourth book in Christine Feehan's Dark Series. Gregori is the Dark One, the hunter, who is always alone. Thousands of years old, Gregori is on the verge of turning vampire. He is desperate to join with his lifemate, the only person who can stop his dark descent. All Carpathian males must find their lifemates to keep their darkness from taking over their minds. Failure to do so condemns them to life as vampires of legend unless they chose to end their existence and go into the sun. There is only one lifemate for each man and woman. Gregori's job is to hunt down these vampires and kill them. Now he is on the verge of becoming that which he hunts.<br />Daughter of the Carpathian prince and his human lifemate, Savannah Dubrinsky is desperately afraid of Gregori. She wants no part of being his lifemate. While she was in the womb, Gregori touched her, manipulating nature so she would be his lifemate and his salvation. He didn't count on her refusing him on her eighteenth birthday. He finally agrees to give her five years of freedom before coming for her. She runs away to America, thinking she can hide from him. She becomes a world famous magician and thinks she has escaped him and her Carpathian roots. Unfortunately for her, he knows exactly where she is as do other Carpathians who have already turned vampire.<br />Savanna has her hands full trying to convince Gregori she is not some weak woman who has to obey his every command. She is independent and wants to keep it that way. On the other hand, Gregori is used to giving orders and having them obeyed. What he doesn't count on is the way he wants to give in to her whims and the way his heart beats faster every time he looks at her. He believes he knows what's good for her and his first duty is to protect her, even if against herself. It was fun seeing a softer side of Gregori. The book moves to New Orleans, which is also fun. I recommend this whole series to lovers of romance. A word of warning: the series is very sexy :)ies is very sexy :)	2002-03-28
US	52778107	R1DIB5RRVJUFH	0812550706	401439625	Ender's Game (The Ender Quintet)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	I really enjoyed this book	I bought Ender's Game because so many people recommended it to me. Later I wondered why I had listened. A book about a little boy who is a genius, taken away from his family at the age of six to save the world? Not my cup of tea, or so I thought. One of my reading groups, Armchair Readers 2, was doing a group read of Ender's Game and I thought I might as well read it with them.I was pulled in almost from the beginning.<br />When Earth was attacked by the \\"Buggers\\", they were taken by surprise. It was almost an accident that humans were able to destroy them. To prepare for another invasion, Earth began breeding military geniuses who would save the world. Children wore monitors from an early age so that their every thought, word, and deed was recorded. Ender Wiggin was the best of the best. Taken from his family at the age of six, he begins his education in war games strategy and command.<br />My heart ached for Ender's lost childhood and loneliness. As each test got harder and his isolation more complete, his determination for success grew. He knew he couldn't depend on anyone but himself because that was all he had. I quickly became attached to Ender and some of the secondary characters, as well. Geniuses all, they knew the world was depending on them and they pushed themselves to their limits. I highly recommend this book.	2002-03-24
US	52778107	R2F5O8QXNOATXL	157566254X	948904294	Skin Deep, Blood Red	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	New Orleans during the Depression	This book is first and foremost about color. Wesley Ferrell is a black man passing for white in New Orleans during the depression. I soon found myself wanting to protect his secret with him and getting nervous at various things that happened in the book<br />Wesley Ferrell is what I would term an antihero. He walks a fine line between being a criminal and a law-abiding citizen. He owns a couple of bars and a bordello, carries a gun and aswitchblade, and doesn't mind using them when the occasion calls for it. When a dirty cop is murdered, a mobster tells Ferrell he knows his secret and will reveal it to everybody if Ferrell doesn't find out who killed the cop. Of course Ferrell has no choice but to get involved.<br />I have a feeling we get to know Ferrell a lot better in the next book of the series.I had a tough time deciding how I felt about him in this book because there wasn't a lot of characterization except for his fear of being found out. His secret had made a loner out of him who trusted noone. It shaped his whole life and how he saw the world. One thing this book did for me was to reaffirm my belief of how stupid people have always been about color.<br />I had to laugh at one part where he is talking to a policeman and says, \\"You ain't got nothing on me, copper.\\" I immediately pictured James Cagney playing the heavy. I'm looking forward to reading the sequel.	2002-03-18
US	52778107	R3EURVSHZ6I3KJ	0380757478	282925652	Fires of Winter (Haardrad Family)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Very Good Read	Brenna was raised as the son her father never had. She could fight with a sword as well as any of the other men and preferred this life to being a female. Unfortunately, as she got older her body betrayed her, turning her into a beautiful woman that she preferred to ignore. When her father arranged a marriage for her with a Viking Chieftain's son, she was enraged. Her father's only purpose was to keep peace between his people and the Vikings who were plundering other lands. Unfortunately, the Viking had no intention of wedding his son to the Celtic people because he had a grudge to settle with them. Instead, Brenna's friends and family are murdered by the attacking Vikings and she is taken captive along with several other women. Instead of going to Garrick Haardrad as his bride, she is given to him as his slave. The proud Brenna lets him and everybody else know she will be slave to no man. This begins the match of wits between a bitter, hate filled Brenna and an equally bitter Garrick who hates women.<br />The book has elements that I don't like, such as rape. It's hard to have any feelings for the hero when he rapes the heroine, regardless of the time period. It is a sign of Lindsey's writing ability that she did just this without making the reader hate the hero. However, I found myself hating the Viking men and their customs. They treated women very badly and used them as they saw fit. Had Brenna belonged to any of the other men,I'm certain she would have been killed or severely beaten because of her temper and pride. This being a romance book, we see a change in Brenna and Garick's relationship, which is always stormy. I won't ruin the book for you by giving away too much. Suffice to say it was interesting enough to keep me turning pages.<br />I stayed up until 4 a. m. finishing this book. It's been a long time since I have liked a book well enough to do this. I highly recommend it but only if you can get past the rape scenes.	2002-03-10
US	52778107	R3P9Q9PJH7CA33	050552354X	489560477	Dark Desire (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 2)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Wonderful Series With Heroes to Die For	I picked up Dark Desire as soon as I finished Dark Prince thinking there was no way it could be as good. It surpassed Dark Prince and left me wanting more of the Carpathian men. Thank goodness I had bought all the books the day before and could continue reading this wonderful series.<br />Jacques Dubrinsky, brother to Michail from Dark Prince, falls into the hands of vampire hunters. Not satisfied with just killing him, they torture him and bury him alive with a stake in his chest. Jacques cries out for help and is heard by Shea O'Halloran, a surgeon in the United States. When she doesn't come to his rescue, he assumes she was a part of the group who hurt him so badly and is consumed by hatred for her. In the meantime, Shea thinks she is losing her mind. She doesn't understand the voice in her head and the pain that doubles her over when he mind links with her. When she is finally compelled to travel thousands of miles to the Carpathian Mountains, she encounters Jacques, who is on the brink of madness. Bewildered that he could still be alive after seven years, she is forced to believe in things her scientific mind can hardly comprehend. Having lived with her own blood disease and on the run from others who knew about it, she believes he is a fellow sufferer and a victim of these same people.<br />Christine Feehan has created a race of people who are fascinating and very sexy. The men are arrogant and bossy but falling in love with their life mates make them the perfect heroes. I think Christine Feehan must have reached into women's minds and created the men of their fantasies and then added her own special touch. I know she has exceeded any hero I ever created.	2002-02-25
US	52778107	R2WEU2EGH8U7Z1	0505523302	21482417	Dark Prince (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 1)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	I think I'm in Love!	Mikhail Dubrinsky, prince of the Carpathians, had decided to end his life the night he met Raven. He had given up on ever meeting his life mate and was weary of his existence. Unless a Carpathian male found his life mate, his other half, he lost all emotion and lost the ability to see in color. Plus there was the fear of becoming the monster vampire of folklore.Raven had just helped the police catch a serial killer with her psychic abilities and was on a much needed vacation to blot out the ugliness she had endured while in the killer's mind. She felt Mikhail's pain one night and communicated with him telepathically, hoping to comfort him.I have to say I began the book with some trepidation. Mikhail was very arrogant and bossy. He decided he wanted Raven and proceeded to try to take over her life. Not so many pages later I was in love with him, myself :) Unfortunately for him, Raven was a very independent woman and let him know she thought for herself. Yet, she was comfortable with him as she had never been with anybody else in her life. Always a loner, it was nice to be with him.I loved the whole life mate idea. No Carpathian male could ever cheat on his life mate and the word divorce wasn't even in the Carpathian vocabulary. A bond existed between life mates that linked them together forever. There is so much more to the story but I don't have the room to go into it all. Dark Desire is a great love story with vampires, telepaths, and shape changers as well as vampire hunters and murder and vengeance. Did I mention sex? Lots of that, too.I bought the rest of the series today.	2002-02-19
US	52778107	R19QRQ82KIBU0	0867210435	67170028	The Sword and the Swan	Books	4	13	13	N	N	A good historical	The Sword and the Swan is first and foremost a historical.Though there is a romance between Ranulf and Catherine, we are not subjected to graphic sex scenes and heaving bosoms. Ms. Gellis leaves us at the bedroom door whenever the couple is together.<br />Ranulf is a man of integrity and honor. When he pledges himself to King Stephen, he stands on his word in spite of the fact that Stephen is a terrible king. Ranulf is a gruff, outspoken, and sometimes rude man. When Catherine is given to him as a wife, he is moved by her beauty and soft voice. Up to this point he had found women to be stupid and a nuisance. After awhile he starts to appreciate his wife and see qualities in her that he never expected a woman to possess.  Not knowing how to express tender feelings, he usually insults her or hurts her feelings unintentionally. Most of their problems stem from misunderstandings, though they love one another.<br />The Sword and the Stone gives us a glimpse of battlefields and the men who give their all. Sometimes their lives are lost on the whim of a king who calls his subjects to war for no good reason. I believe readers who like to see stories told without skimming over the filth and hardships of the times will like this one.	2002-02-13
US	52778107	RDY5GGSSUXJKP	0515124648	763023042	Shadowy Horses	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Good ghost story	When Verity Grey is asked to Eyemouth, Scotland by an ex boyfriend for an archaeological  job., she  arrives at Rosehill not quite knowing what to expect. She meets her boss, Peter Quinnel, and is told he is digging for the lost Ninth Legion of Rome. Furthermore, he knows it is there because a little boy who is psychic saw a phantom sentinel in the field and has communicated with him. Skeptical, Verity has to see for herself what the little boy is capable of before she is a believer. Add to that the sound of running horses she hears every night (where there aren't any) and the sounds of somebody moving around (who isn't there) and you have the makings of a good ghost story.<br />Verity also meets archaelogists David Fortune, who she is instantly attracted to. Let me say up front that while there is a romance, it is very much in the background. It's almost as if the author got bashful when they came together and skipped over what went on between them. If passion and explicit sex scenes are your thing, better skip this one. If you like a ghost story with a gothic feel, this book is for you.	2002-02-11
US	52778107	R22YPN6F7FEXLQ	0373484372	521584074	Wings in the Night: Twilight Phantasies / Twilight Memories / Twilight Illusions	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A Good Read	Wings in the Night by Maggie Shayne is an omnibus of her first three Twilight novels: Twilight Phantisies, Twilight Memories, and Twilight Illusions. Phantisies and Illusions are my favorite. Eric and Tamara are the hero/heroine of Phantisies, Roland and Rhiannon of Memories, and Damien and Shannon of Memories. In Shayne's vampire world, two conditions must exist in order for a human, or The Chosen, as the vampires call them, to be turned. They must have the Belladonna antigen in their blood, and they must be descendants of Vlad Tepes. For some reason, vampires can sense The Chosen, even if these humans are unaware of their own uniqueness. Once sensed, the vampires are compelled to watch out for them and protect them. DPI, a secret government agency that investigates paranormal creatures, is aware of Eric in Phantasies and keeps him under surveillance. Tamara, the ward of a top DPI agent, works for them too but is kept in the dark about the sinister side of the agency. Once she meets Eric, she doesn't believe he is a vampire or an evil creature. She just knows she has some kind of connection with him that she doesn't understand. Tamara is one of The Chosen and Eric is her protector. Twilight Memories and Twilight Illusions also have vampire heroes and Chosen Ones who are hunted by the DPI agents. I liked the fact that in each consecutive book the characters of the previous book were included. As I finished one book and met new characters, I couldn't help but miss the old ones. I just hope they are all in the future books as well.<br />The romances and stories were excellent. I enjoyed the first three books well enough to look forward to the next books in the series.	2002-02-09
US	52778107	R3LXA1GPR93ROH	050552421X	958396308	Scarletti Curse (Candleglow)	Books	4	34	36	N	N	All of the elements I like in a romance	As a fan of gothic and paranormal stories, this book appealed to me. True, it had a lot more sex than Victoria Holt or other gothic writer favorites ever included in their books, but it didn't take away from my enjoyment.<br />Nicolette is a free spirit with a secret. She was born with the gift of healing and knowing when somebody needed her.The villagers depend on her healing skills and rally around her to keep her hid from outsiders. They know Nicolette could be burned as a witch, otherwise. Don Giovanni, the dark brooding aristocrat, wants Nicolette the first time he sees her. Though his family lives under a curse that all of their women will die, he is determined to make Nicolette his bride.<br />I don't believe in giving too much information in a review so I won't say what happens between them. The book is very atmospheric with the castle and it's sinister wall carvings, the brothers and grandfather who have all lost their wives, and last but not least, the hero with his own gift. One thing I liked about the hero is he was arrogant, but not overly so. He had a soft, gentle side that overshadowed his arrogance, at least to me. I hate heros who are overly arrogant simply because they are men.<br />This was my first book by this author and I am looking forward to reading Dark Prince, another book I have by her.	2002-01-27
US	52778107	R3L99WCRXD4CN2	0671525743	42968960	Night Whispers (The Paradise series)	Books	4	17	19	N	N	I enjoyed this one	My daughter, Angelique, gave me this book ages ago and keeps asking if I have read it yet. I should have listened to her because it was very enjoyable. After 30 years of silence, Sloan Reynolds, a policewoman, receives a phone call and invitation from her father, Carter Reynolds. A member of the rich jet set, he wants Sloan to come out to Palm Beach to get to know him and her sister. At first Sloan refuses, furious that he has called after all this time. When FBI agent Paul Richardson shows up and explains that Reynolds is under investigation, she agrees to meet her father and work undercover. Along the way Sloan meets multimillionaire, Noah Maitland, and falls in love. She also gets to know her sister, Paris, who was taken away by her father when they were babies. The only thing that bothers Sloan is she can't tell Noah or her sister that she is really a policewoman.<br />The book has suspense, romance, and a murder that kept me turning the pages. Now I know why Judith McNaught is one of Angelique's favorite writers. She has already recommended another<br />book for me to read.	2002-01-21
US	52778107	R3VVHETJBELAT3	0060179333	306452798	Colony	Books	5	20	21	N	N	I loved this book so much!	This is one of my all time favorites. A southern woman marries a<br />wealthy man and spends her summers at Retreat in Maine.<br />Her mother-in-law makes no secret of the fact that she finds<br />Maude totally unacceptable as a wife for her son. At Retreat,<br />Maude learns the older women rule and they do everything they<br />can to make Retreat perfect for the men.  The book spans<br />70 years as we watch Maude try to fit in and tolerate her<br />mother in law. Peter, Maude's husband, is a weak man,<br />but Maude loves him and carries on the tradition of making<br />the summers perfect for him. The scenery is as much a<br />character as Maude and the rest of the blue bloods that<br />populate it. Anne Rivers Siddons is a master at creating<br />a setting and making us love the people she has created.<br />I read this book slowly and savored it because I loved<br />Maude and didn't want to say good-bye. After I finished it,<br />I didn't immediately begin another book, as is my usual<br />custom. I spent several days thinking about it and<br />accepting the fact that I wouldn't be visiting with Maude<br />any more. I miss her.	2001-11-30
US	52778107	RXESWSV697R2V	0425181685	449119181	Narcissus in Chains (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 10)	Books	1	7	7	N	N	What was Hamilton thinking?	The Anita Blake series is my favorite of all time. I love opening the books and losing myself in Anita's world. I was immediately pulled in from the first page, just like I always am.Even though NiC was action packed and &quot;the boys&quot; were back, there were a lot of disappointments for me. Choices were made that I absolutely hated and things done to characters (maybe I should say one character)that I didn't like. I guess my main gripe is a lot of readers have been waiting for a certain thing to happen. Instead of it happening, new characters were brought in that I resented. I felt betrayed.<br />Anita hasn't seen Jean Claude or Richard in six months. She knows she has to make a choice between them and decides to get in touch with them. When one of her wereleopards is kidnapped, it's Anita to the rescue. We see a lot of weres in this book that we haven't met before and Jean Claude and his vamps are very much in evidence, too. I don't want to give anything away but I will say Anita didn't act like the Anita of the previous books. She still carries her guns and knives and kills withut reservation, but her attitude is different. This isn't a bad thing because I was getting tired of her mouth and the restrictions she put on JC and Richard. Other differences in Anita weren't so good. Hamilton even made Jean Claude unlikable in this book. Let's face it, this book was a total waste of time and money. I hated it.<br />This is the only Anita book that gets 1 star from me instead of 10 out of 5 :)	2001-10-24
US	52778107	R3659REFPRK30N	0970842406	416393510	A Reason To Live : The True Story of One Woman's Love, Courage and Determination to Survive	Books	5	2	2	N	N	True Crime About the Victims	I rarely read true crime because I find it hard to enjoy reading about real people's tragedies. This book was different.Everybody assumes that it's all over as soon as the jury brings in a verdict. Not true. Wanda and her family lived with the attack on her for many years afterward. She was shot in the face and left for dead with no more thought than you and I would give swatting a mosquito. Her face was destroyed. She endured years of surgeries, depression, a justice system that dragged its feet, and withdrawal from society because of the stares she got.But Wanda also had love and support in her life from family and friends. Her husband Jimmy was wonderful. His life wasn't a bed of roses either, but he stuck by her side all through it. His values and sense of family earned my admiration and respect.<br />I don't think most people would have hung in there year after year.<br />A Reason to Live showed the crime from all sides and read like a fictional novel instead of a police report.  Whenever my problems threaten to overwhelm me, I think of Wanda and Jimmy and their family. They are an inspiration to me and I wish them the best possible future they can have.	2001-10-24
US	52778107	R3OZ07HX8PQUDR	0679451501	541384114	The Sparrow: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Five Stars! Very Good Book	The author had a unique way of writing this story so that the reader's curiosity would force him to continue reading. First we meet the characters and learn of a musical signal received from outer space. A Jesuit team is put together and sent to the planet. The next chapter shows us the lone survivor, Emilio Sandoz, back from the expedition a broken man whose hands have been mutilated. This Emilio is so different from the humorous man we met in the previous chapter that we wonder what happened to him while away, and most of all, what happened to the other characters who went with him. I believe Russell's characterization was another reason I kept with the book. I fell in love with most of them and cared about what happened to them.<br /><br />I found the aliens to be very interesting and, keeping in mind the condition Emilio returns to earth in, watched for signs of cruelty from them. We learn all about their culture  and how different their thinking is from ours. Even though it has been several years since I read this book, I still think about it all the time. At times it was extremely hard to read but you could not have pried the book from my hands. I was completely wrung out when I read the last page.<br /><br />I don't usually read Sci Fi but this one doesn't feel like Sci Fi to me. It has just enough science in it to be believable and the rest is both character and plot driven. I read the book with more than a little impatience because I wanted to hurry up and find out what was done to the characters. I think you will, too.<br /><br />Pam	2001-10-24
US	52778107	R3IK4V0HKN7E09	0553379690	832062520	One Hundred and One Ways	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A Wonderful Story	One Hundred and One Ways is a story about relationships and love. Kiki shares a special bond with the grandmother in Japan she has never met. They share the same name, Yukiko, and the same beauty that her mother, Akiko, never had. In flashbacks we learn that Yukiko was sold as a child to be trained as a geisha. Her beauty and grace insured her success, once she learned how to use them. In later years Yukiko and Kiki's mother clash over Asiko's choice for a husband. This causes an estrangement that lasts twenty-nine years. Akiko and her husband move to New York while Yukiko stays in Japan.<br />When Yukiko decides to come to America, Kiki puts all her hopes and dreams on the relationship she is sure she and her grandmother will share. Having lost the man she loves in an accident, Kiki turns to a young Jewish lawyer who is smitten with her beauty. Afraid he has an Asian woman fetish, she uses<br />him to try to forget Phillip. Through all of this, Phillip's ghost appears in her apartment, watching her but never speaking.<br />I thought the story was beautifully told. The flashbacks brought<br />the stories of the three women together in a way that showed the common links in their lives. I will definitely read this author's next book.	2001-09-18
US	52778107	R1YVTO89QMLOLJ	0553578529	391628853	Into the Wilderness	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	A Wonderful Love Story	Before I even opened the book, I watched Last of the Mohicans, one of my favorite movies. Into the Wilderness is the sequel,though written by a different author. Elizabeth Middleton travels from England to New York to be with her father in the 1700's. He has promised her she can be the school teacher for the local children. Since she has never married and has no prospects, this is an opportunity she looks forward to. Unlike most women of her time, being single doesn't bother her. She values her independence and loves the idea of teaching. Once she gets to her father's, she finds there is no school and her father<br />doesn't seem too interested in supplying one. What he is interested in is marrying her off to the local doctor,Richard Todd. Furious at his deception, it doesn't help matters that she is definitely not attracted to the good doctor. Instead, Nathaniel Bonner, son of the hero of Last of the Mohicans (Daniel Day Lewis), has captured her heart. To further persuade his head strong daughter into marrying the doctor, her father has promised her a mountain, Hidden Wolf, as part of her inheritance. But only if she marries his choice for her. She finds out the Mohicans want to buy the mountain from her father but Richard Todd has his own agenda and is only too willing to marry her to get it. The descriptions of the way they live and the countryside drew me in as well as the romance between Elizabeth and Nathaniel. I love romance in a book if it isn't overdone and this one was great. Even though Nathaniel was<br />the son of Daniel Day Lewis's character in the movie, in my mind I saw him as Daniel Day Lewis and Elizabeth as the beautiful Madeline Stowe. I really loved this book	2001-09-01
US	52778107	R2794KGGVMWPKG	0440220440	971761343	Deal Breaker: The First Myron Bolitar Novel (Myron Bolitar Mysteries)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The Beginning of a Great Series	When God made man, Harlan Coben should have given him the blueprint for Myron Bolitar. Myron is the type of man all of us women would love to have. He's a big guy, athletic, and very sensitive. He missed his chance at being a star basketball player from a knee injury. He worked for the government for a while, then became a sports agent, owning his own company. The secondary characters are fascinating,too. His good friend and associate, Win, is a sociopath.He looks like a rich, spoilt pushover. Rich and spoilt he is, but he can be lethal in a fight. He counts on the bad guys forming that opinion of him. Esperanza, an ex-wrestler, is another business associate and his best friend.<br /><br />In Deal Breaker, Myron Bolitar has just landed his first big client, Christian Steele. When Christian's girlfriend,who is presumed dead, calls him on the phone, everything changes. Myron agrees to investigate for Christian and learns more than he bargained for. What is so fascinating to me is nothing about this series is simple. Just when you are expecting a simple finale exposing the bad guy, more layers of the puzzle are laid bare before you, the reader. Each book gets better and better as you go. I highly recommend this series. It is funny and sensitive and never boring.	2001-08-30
US	52778107	R1E72IZ4DDN927	0785776184	453010069	Guilty Pleasures (Anita Blake Vampire Hunter)	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	My Very Favorite Series, Bar None! 10 Stars!!	Anita Blake aka the executioner aka animator. In every day terms, that means vampire killer and zombie raiser. Anita lives in a world where vampires have rights and you don't mess with them unless they had your friend or loved one for lunch. That's when a court order is issued and Anita the Vampire Killer goes after her vamp. When Anita gets dressed for the day, it includes knives at her wrists and hidden gun-filled holsters. A vampire attacked her once before and she has the scars to prove it. They won't catch her unarmed again.<br />In Guilty Pleasures the tables are turned. Vampires are being  murdered and the fanged world wants the best person for the job of finding the killer--Anita. She refuses the job but they play dirty and threaten a friend of hers. Along the way, Anita gets involved with a male stripper who works for hunky vampire, Jean Claude, at Guilty Pleasures. Though human, Phillip is a junkie of sorts. He craves the bite of the vampire and the euphoria that comes with it. His body is covered with scars from these encounters and Anita is filled with disgust and pity. Anita also encounters the oldest master vampire she has ever come across and the most powerful. Even Jean Claude is afraid of her.<br />Besides dealing with this case, Anita has a regular job of raising zombies. If a person dies without a will or is the victim of a murder, Anita raises the person, now a zombie, and the police can question him about his murderer or a lawyer can make out a will. She also works on supernatural cases with the police, nicknamed The Spook Squad. Anita is the expert in everything supernatural and her talents are called on with regularity.<br />Though Anita is petite, she is a kick-behind ball of fire and even the vampires have a problem overpowering her. She doesn't take any grief from anybody and will shoot you as soon as look at you. Smart mouthed and sassy, Anita is a handful that nobody can tame.<br />This series is my very favorite, bar none! I own it in paperback and hardback. Very addictive. If you buy Guilty Pleasures, be prepared to order the rest of the series because you will not want to stop reading. If you aren't hooked by the end of this first book, you will be by the second one.paperback and hardback. Very addictive. If you buy Guilty Pleasures, be prepared to order the rest of the series because you will not want to stop reading. If you aren't hooked by the end of this first book, you will be by the second one.	2001-08-12
US	52778107	R1XWJ8FAYGTPJP	0061009059	830758196	One for the Money (Stephanie Plum, No. 1) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	First book in excellent series	Stephanie Plum goes to work for her cousin, Vinnie, as a bounty hunter. Her first assignment, worth $10,000 is to bring in Joe Morelli who is a cop accused of murder. She and Joe have a past (fleeting though it may be) but she is determined to bring him in. She runs into him quite a bit but he doesn't &quot;let&quot; her catch him. The characterization is great and there are a few laughs. I have read the whole series and they only get better and better and laugh out loud funny. This is one of my favorite series. Stephanie and Joe's relationship alone will keep you turning the pages.	2001-08-12
US	52778107	R2PZ2AA1OUJO8D	0553578022	985544083	The Face of Deception (Eve Duncan)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A New Series	After losing her daughter to a serial killer, forensic sculptor Eve Duncan survives by throwing herself into her work. The best in her field at rebuilding faces from bare skull bones, Eve specializes in identifying missing children. Billionaire John Logan requests her help in identifying an adult skull. Eve  tells Logan that she isn't interested but when he volunteers to donate a large sum of money to a charity for missing children in exchange for her time, Eve reluctantly agrees. Logan neglects to tell her that there are powerful people who are determined to keep the skull's true identity a secret at any cost. Soon Eve's life is in danger and she isn't very happy about it. She calls Logan dirty names almost from their first meeting until the end of the book. I may not have been in the mood for this type book and that's why it didn't get five stars.	2001-08-12
US	52778107	R3CPG2D2FNISGH	0449213730	885145717	THe Ritual Bath (Peter Decker & Rina Lazarus Novels)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	First book in an excellent series	I love this series. A rape is committed outside the bath house of a Jewish community. Peter Decker, a police detective, is called in on the case and meets Rina Lazarus. We get to see what it is like to be a Torah Jew and to follow all of their rules and laws. Peter is attracted to Rina but he is not a religious person as she is. While he deals with this attraction, he hunts for the rapist plus another rapist who has eluded him for months. We get equal measures of police work/romance/Jewish<br />culture. I loved it.	2001-08-12
US	52778107	R3B9CJ6P4F3BYA	038073267X	594977768	Sacred and Profane (Peter Decker & Rina Lazarus Novels)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	I couldn't give this one enough stars	Excellent! Second book in series. Peter is studying the Jewish faith with a rabi because Reni will not consider a relationship with him unless he is a practicing Jew. He takes her two sons on a camping trip and one of the boys discovers two skeletons. They find out one of the skeletons is a teenage girl who has disappeared. Peter's search for the killer takes him into the porn world and he finds it hard to balance his work with his religious studies. Very good. One day read. Since I gave Ritual Bath 5 stars, I wanted to give this one 6 because it is better.	2001-08-12
US	52778107	R306VFSN648MSY	0886778794	23361611	The Flesh, the Blood, and the Fire	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Swiniarski does it again!	I read Raven by this author and loved it so much that I went on a search for other books by him. I found this book and loved it just as much. It is based on a real case in the 1930s that was never solved. Dubbed the torso murders, Elliot Ness has his work cut out for him when dozens of decapitated and mutilated bodies are found along the railroad tracks and waterways of Cleveland, Ohio over the period of four years. What makes the case even stranger is they all have been drained of blood. The citizens of Cleveland, Ohio are panicked and Ness hits deadend after deadend. In Swiniarski's world, vampires are the culprits. Detective Stefan Ryzard can't believe what he's uncovering as he investigates the case. I won't give any more away but it is good reading.	2001-08-12
US	52778107	R2ZCKLWETZF0GS	0451458125	54721316	Fool Moon (Dresden Files)	Books	5	11	13	N	Y	Jim Butcher has a winner with Fool Moon	The highest compliment I can give a book is its characters become real to me. Jim Butcher's Harry Dresden now lives with my other literary friends who have reached this status. Harry Dresden is an often misunderstood wizard. His heart is in the right place but people tend to misjudge him. Take Karrin Murphy, Director of Special Investigations for the Chicago  Police Department. When a case comes across her desk that is supernatural in origin, Harry is her man. Unfortunately, she doesn't trust Harry because sometimes he isn't forthcoming with all the information she needs to solve the crime. She doesn't know Harry has to answer to the White Council, a &quot;policeman&quot; for those with supernatural ability and it's against the rules to let common mortals know about them. It doesn't help that most people don't believe in the supernatural and think Harry is a scam artist or worse. When corpses begin turning up with shredded and chewed up body parts, she has no choice but to turn to Harry again.  It doesn't take Harry long to figure out a werewolf is killing people. Harry really wants to help out and stop the killings but roadblocks  hamper his investigation at every turn. Throw in mobsters, being arrested, beat up, chased, confrontations with hungry werewolves, mad FBI agents,and nearly getting killed several times, and you have a glimpse of what Harry's life has turned into. All in all, a very good read and I recommend it very highly.	2001-08-10
US	52778107	R35PHIX3HL93I1	0425119920	742127435	Strangers	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Dean Koontz has a winner with Strangers	This is my favorite Dean Koontz book. He gives us a cast of characters who live in different parts of the world with different occupations and life styles but they all share one thing in common: their lives are coming undone. They have each developed a fear they can't explain. The moon is also a common thread that joins them. A pair of black gloves and water in a drain cause a young brilliant doctor to have blackouts along with mind numbing fear; a motel owner is suddenly terrified of the dark; a seven year old draws pictures of the moon over and over again. This is just a few of the characters that are trapped in a world of fear. I was left turning the pages at break neck speed just to find out what in the world was happening. The book accelerates to a climax that was very satisfying. This book is one of my top ten favorites of all time, and I am a big reader!	2000-09-06
US	52778107	RU7Q4NJQFPDMY	0684864843	526930828	The Vineyard: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Content was as lovely as the cover	When I first opened The Vineyard, I didn't know I was going to be making  new friends. That's how the characters seemed to me and I hated saying  goodbye. When Olivia Jones worked on restoring Natalie Seebring's old  pictures, she made up a family for herself using the people in the photos.  Her own mother ignored her for most of her life, then abandoned her when  she graduated from high school. When she married a man more interested in  his work than her and their daughter, the pattern continued up until his  death. Then his parents refused to believe Jessie was their son's daughter.  Added to all this, Jessie had dyslexia and couldn't get ahead in school or  make friends. It was at this stage of Olivia's life when Natalie Seebring  hired her to come write a book of her life story. Natalie and her hired  employee announced their upcoming wedding six months after Natalie's  husband died. Natalie's children felt betrayed and hurt and wondered if she  had been having an affair while their father was alive. Always the quiet  one, Natalie thinks if she puts her story down on paper, maybe they will  understand why she is marrying Carl. Olivia brings her daughter to live at  the vineyard that Natalie owns, expecting a large family atmosphere. What  she finds are phone calls from Natalie's children that Natalie refuses to  take and hostility from the vineyard manager who believes Natalie is  playing match maker for himself and Olivia. The story develops beautifully  from here as we learn Natalie's story and how it makes Olivia emerge from  her dream world and face reality. This is one book where the romance wasn't  overdone but added to the beauty of the book.	2000-08-21
US	52778107	R34UMPS7GEO0A1	0671725327	887480346	Too Deep for Tears	Books	5	10	10	N	N	What a Wonderful Book!	An Englishman has three daughters by three women in different parts of the world. Unable to be with them as they grow up, he sends for them when they  are older so they can be together. The book revolves around each daughter  and what impact their absent father has on their lives. One of the  daughters is Scottish, the second Chinese, and the third an English girl  raised in India.<br />The descriptions of the scenery and total ambiance of  each  locale made me see, smell, and feel where they were. When I read  about Ailsa Rose in Scotland, I saw the mists and waterfalls of the  highlands. With Li-an, China came alive for me with its gentle women but  politically unstable atmosphere. With Genevra, I saw the poverty and  untouchables of India. I could see everything so clearly because Davis drew  me into the stories. I confess to liking Ailsa Rose's story better than the  other two though I got emotional through parts of it. Li-an drew my  sympathy because she inherited her blue eyes from her father and had to  always keep her eyes lowered because her countrymen would kill her if they  knew. Generva had to bear the shame of her  father and mother's adulterous  affair that resulted in her birth.  Anyone who loves reading about foreign  places and romance will love this book. I don't consider this a romance  book but romance is a strong factor.  The book has two sequels that I  haven't read yet but I bought them as soon as I read Too Deep For Tears.  It's a truly wonderful book.	2000-08-16
US	52778107	R3LMZ5RIPFBIA4	0446359203	629572192	Carrion Comfort	Books	5	5	7	N	N	What a Great Book!	Have you ever pickd up a big fat book that is good from the first page to the last?  Carrion Comfort was that book for me. I cannot imagine anybody finding this book dull or boring.<br />It starts in a Hitler death camp in  1942. Here Saul Laski had his first encounter with The Oberst, a mind  vampire. The mind violation he endures at this time leads him on a life  long quest to find the Oberst and make him pay for what he had done to him.  Along the way he meets other victims and they band together to topple the  mind vampires' empire.<br />Unfortunately, the Oberst isn't the only one.  There are Nina, Melanie, and Willie who make a game out of their abilities.  Never mind that they destroy lives and leave corpses in their wake; the  game must go on. It's all about power and they eventually cannot trust one  another. But even unknown to them, there are others whose mind control  reach the top men in power. They want to rule the world, and with the world  leaders' minds under their control, success is not unobtainable.<br />Saul  Laski and his friends have their work cut out for them as they face these  creatures. It only takes a second to have their minds taken from them and  used against them. I couldn't put the book down and was under its spell  until the very last page. I give this book five stars out of five. Great  work Mr. Simmons.	2000-05-25
US	52778107	R1TABHFE9IOFKQ	0380790947	986179021	The Passion	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	What a great werewolf tale!	The Passion by Donna Boyd is the first book in a series. Tessa LeGuerre is one of the few humans ever allowed to enter the werewolf world. Hired as a maid of charismatic werewolf, Alexander Devoncroix, Tessa tries to murder  him in his sleep. In spite of this, Alexander is enchanted with Tessa and  makes her his ward. Through Alexander, Tessa enters werewolf society and is  introduced to the queen and other werewolves. Tessa soon falls in love with  Alexander but he tells her that the mating between werewolf and human is  impossible. When werewolves mate, it's for life. They exchange life  experiences and become one; all their emotions are shared by both weres  after the mating ceremony. That isn't to say that they don't have sexual  encounters before they mate. Nudity and intercourse are natural for them  and they do engage in it. However, werewolves don't normally have sex with  humans. They feel that humans are inferior to them and are prejudice.  Alexander flaunts convention by telling Tessa the secrets of his people and  bringing her into their company. The first half of the book is interesting  but I had no problem in putting the book down. I thought it read like a  romance book instead of a horror book. Once I hit the halfway mark the book  got immensely interesting and I couldn't wait to see what was going to  happen next. Tessa does something that changes her life and those around  her forever.<br />I will say I didn't like the ending of the book, but I was  still impressed with it. I hope the second book, The Promise, is like the  second half of The Passion. What a wonderful book!<br />I recommend this book  as long as you aren't expecting a horror book with lots of gore and scares.	2000-05-25
US	52778107	R17CNAHVW2GIR7	0812510488	745081288	The Season of Passage	Books	4	4	6	N	Y	Season of Passage	The Season of Passage is the only book I have read by Christopher Pike. If this is any indication of how he writes, I need to read a lot more by him. I loved this book; I loved the whole ambiance of the book and if I knew of  any more like this one, I would grab it up.<br />An unmanned space probe is  sent to Mars. The pictures it brings back show foot prints. Four years  later the Russians send a crew to Mars to check out this marvelous  discovery. Contact is lost with the crew and nobody knows what happened.  This prompts the Americans to send their own manned ship to determine the  fate of the Russians. Imagine their surprise when they find the orbiting  ship and one of the cosmonauts alive, despite the freezing temperatures.  Dr. Lauren Wagner is puzzled by his missing pulse and the foolish grin that  stays on his face. Things start getting creepy when he takes them down on  the Martian surface and into some caves. It's a horrorite's dream with  plenty of atmosphere and tense moments! Some of the members of the crew do  not survive this ordeal and it's a story of survival at it's  best.<br />Meanwhile, back on earth Lauren's thirteen year old sister starts  writing a journal about an ancient goddess that somehow ties in with what  is happening on Mars.<br />My only problem with the book is I didn't like the  ending, but that's just me. I thought the book was exceptional and I would  give it four stars. The only reason I didn't give it five stars is because  of the ending.	2000-05-25
US	52778107	R20FFKSFDP1N3X	0441006604	822090862	The Hunt (Laws of the Blood, Book 1)	Books	4	58	64	N	Y	Laws of the Blood was easy reading and original	Laws of the Blood: The Hunt is the first book in a series. Selim is the law enforcer to a bunch of hungry vampires who resent his authority. He tells them when, where, and if they can hunt humans. Most of them are in  the clutches of a bloodburn, which is the compulsion to hunt, and their  reason is all but gone. Susan Sizemore has created a vampire world with its  own mythology. I almost wish this book had been thicker and gone into more  detail instead of being the first book of a series. I have so many  questions and would like to read in more detail of Selim's youth and  metamorphose into the enforcer. There are so many possible stories in the  book that I know will problably be  explored in future books. I really  liked the book and will definitely buy the next one.	1999-10-06
US	52778107	R37VSXI1MDHBWJ	0425098605	525781628	The Vision	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A Great Read	The Vision reminded me a lot of my first Koontz read,<br />Whispers. The main character has visions of murders<br />before they happen. She is called on to help the police<br />but before long the visions take a personal turn. In<br />Whispers, we have the eerie whispers that torment the<br />bad guy. The main character in this story has her own<br />torment. I won't say anymore and ruin it. Koontz kept<br />the suspense high and me turning pages to find out<br />who the murderer was. Though this plot line of psychics<br />helping the police is done quite a bit now, back when<br />The Vision was written I don't think it was. Even if it<br />was, it wasn't done like Koontz does it.	1999-08-01
US	52778107	R2SFQRVT225JWX	0886777259	260200369	Raven	Books	5	3	3	N	N	I thought this book was great and was sorry when it ended.	I hope S. A. Swiniarski reads this review because I would love for him to write a series about this character. Kane Tyler became a real person to me and I felt like I was leaving an old friend when I closed the book. I read the book in one day because I just couldn't put it down. The book was full of atmosphere and sucked you into the story right off the bat. It is definitely a five star book, in my opinion.<br />A man wakes up in a storm drain, bloody, cold, and with no idea of who he is or how he got there. The only thing in his pockets is a motel key. He makes his way back to the motel and starts trying to figure out who he is and who attacked him. He finds out he is an ex cop turned private investigator. He is also wanted for the savage murder of his ex-wife. Oh, and he finds out one more thing: he has become a vampire! Thus begins his journey for knowledge; knowledge that he may not want to know after all. Good stuff!	1999-06-27
