US	52775645	R2K396MXOPZLGQ	0670034231	929027984	The Big Over Easy: A Nursery Crime	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Works well if you can tolerate the parody	In this book Fforde follows the private eye novel formula of the late 40s and finally, in my opinion, learns how to write a novel.  Unlike the Thursday Next books which are jam-packed with incidents and non-plot related asides, THE BIG OVER EASY tells one story in which ALL the seeming asides connect in a rather surprising finale.  It took me a while to get used to all the nursery rhyme (but mostly fairy tale!) allusions and I rolled my eyes at the majority of them. My only real criticism is that I was not very interested... OK, I was bored by Jack Spratt's family life which seemed lifted from some bad sit-com.  I tended to skip right over those sections.  (What kind of 20 year old college student asks her Dad to help her with \\"homework?\\" And physics \\"homework\\" at that.  Ai yi yi.)  I am first and foremost a detective novel addict.  There are few contemporary mystery writers who write authentic detective novels in which clues and evidence can be used by both reader and fictional detective to solve the crime.  But Fforde has a respect and obvious love for those old-fashioned stories.  And his love of genre-bending (sci fi and fantasy elements blending with detective story plot) results in a eyebrow lifting denouement that made me laugh out loud -- something that I have not done with the later Thursday Next books.  I was thoroughly engaged and finished the book in a couple of days.  A nice surprise and I look forward to Jack Spratt and the Three Bears... and perhaps a gun-toting Goldilocks?	2005-08-19
US	52775645	R2MI8PW5DSI6R6	0446696501	960521744	Brimstone	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Good pulp thrills but ...FAR TOO LONG	I read \\"Cabinet Of Curiosities\\" early last year and found the character of Aloysius Pendergast to be a throwback to the superhuman pulp heroes of yore.  He has a mysterious past and possible psychic powers, he is a master escape artist and is rich beyond belief.  His refined tastes and erudition are probably extremely annoying to modern readers, but that's part of the appeal of this kind of character.  His character and the events in the stories are preposterous and outlandish on purpose.  And I liked the modern handling of a weird menace tale, so I eagerly picked up \\"Brimstone\\" especially since it had a supernatural element hovering over the plot.  With the exception of \\"borrowing\\" a character from Wilkie Collins (that's hutzpah!) and making him seem like Auric Goldfinger, I enjoyed most of this book.  However, this whole genre is getting out of hand.  600 plus pages?!  Where are the editors?  (I had the same complaint about Dan Brown's \\"Angels and Demons.\\"  That book had four separate endings!)  Big gripe: the extraneous subplot with the evangelist character should've been completely cut out!  When I realized it had NOTHING to do with the mysterious spontaneous combustion murders I skipped every single chapter that dealt with that character, the newspaper reporter and the female police captain.  Clich&eacute; and boring!  A shameless cliffhanger ending that is purposely ambiguous (another homage to pulp magazines) forces the reader to want to read the next installment.  And I guess I will.  Be warned with this book.  It's ludicrous and derivative of \\"Da Vinci Code,\\" but if you like to escape into pulp thrills every now and then like me then indulge yourself.  Just skip over the chapters with Reverend Whatshisname - it's a separate book unto itself and is dull and uninspired having nothing to do with the main story at all.	2005-08-19
US	52775645	R2N2MZGZY1MG37	031286583X	952678908	Song of Kali	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Everyday horror resonant with our own times	While there are many insightful criticisms for this book I am stunned by the number of dismissive reviews for this powerful book.  It's boring?  Hardly.  Nothing happens?  A lie.  No one has even mentioned the cultural aspects of this novel which for me, along with tidbits of Indian history and Indian arts, were the most compelling features of the story.  No one has mentioned that although originally published in 1985 the book is set in 1977 which is key to the story and provides a explanation of the mindset (and naivet&eacute; as some called it) of the protagonist.  I find it alarming that people dismiss this book as \\"not horror.\\"  It is a story that has genuine supernatural elements and has more than a fair share of gore for the readers that crave that kind of thing. So what's the problem? It's not scary enough?  A childish complaint.  The book is primarily an effectively told and intelligently written story of EVERYDAY horror ACCEPTED AS THE NORM in a culture that is as corrupt as our own United States.  I guess most horror readers want only witches, demons, vampires, and all the other derivative clich&eacute;s of folklore and legend.  I think those books need to stop. Who cares?  That stuff has all been told a thousand fold.  This is a modern day horror novel of a kind of horror that is IGNORED by most people.  The negative reviews prove that this book's content is as easily dismissed as an Untouchable is ignored as a non-entity by an Indian Brahman.  That's the horror Simmons is telling us about.	2005-08-18
US	52775645	R2KH7JCWLDEADG	0786711884	612647154	The Lurker at the Threshold	Books	3	69	76	N	N	Some much misinformation about this neglected novel	Of all the reviews written here about this long out of print work I am astonished by all the misinformation written by so-called fans.  Most of this comes from very young readers, I am assuming, who know little of the pulp magazines and are confused by paperback editions of books that are recycling stories and novels that have been around for a LONG time.  Derleth never wrote a story until the 1950s?  What hogwash!  His weird fiction appeared as early as 1932 and the bulk of his weird fiction and mystery novels appeared throughout the late 30s and into the 1940s.  Never collaborated?  No, not in the flesh.  But he knew Lovecraft while he was still alive, for heavens sake.  But most of the \\"collaborations\\" were based on notes and plot outlines found among the dozens of papers Derleth and his friends inherited.  \\"Buy anything by Lovecraft especially something from Arkham House.\\"  This book was ORIGINALLY Published by Arkham House in the 1940s!  A publishing house I might add, created by Derleth and his pal Donald Wandrei. Readers should be celebrating the republication of a book that is highly sought after by collectors.  It's a lot more affordable now at a mere ten bucks!  It's hardly trash or garbage.  Untidily written perhaps and derivative yes.  But most of this fiction is derivative anyway.  All the writers in the genre borrow from each other and little of it shows any real originality.  Rehash after rehash.  Readers and fans of this genre ought to read LURKER AT THE THRESHOLD for its literary historic value and keep in mind that Derleth's arch, sometimes annoyingly, baroque style is meant to evoke a mood of long forgotten era.  I kind of like this quaint stuff.  It sure beats the heck out of the gore-fests crammed with dismemberment, disembowelings, torture and sexual perversity that pass for horror these days.	2003-10-30
US	52775645	R2OCMHQB9DUXNK	0670031909	409938290	Lost in a Good Book: A Thursday Next Novel	Books	3	21	34	N	N	Incident overload at the expense of real storytelling	Fforde's problem is he suffers from an abundant and uncontrolled imagination.  The Thursday Next books offer way too much to ever really enjoy them. I first started this book eagerly after completing The Eyre Affair in a rapid few days.  But I soon got fed up with Lost in a Good Book and set it down for an entire year.  It had no story, it was all incident.  The plot (or what I thought was the plot) of attempting to get Landen back was continually pushed into the background in favor of snippets that were completely uncontributory to the supposed story.  It reminded me more and more of a Monty Python episode -- jumping from sketch to sketch in a surreal blend of dimensional madness. That may work visually, but it doesn't work on the printed page.  What was the point of it all?  Suddenly the whole world of SpecOps was dumped to make room for the Jurisfiction world.  Why didn't Fforde just start with that?  Why create one alternate police squad and then abandon it and create a brand new one? It's almost as if he writes to entertain himself.  All the books are filled with in jokes of the &quot;well read.&quot; Even his website seems to be a bit patronizing for those who are unfamiliar with &quot;Great Literature.&quot;  Yet his choices are very heavily weighed on the Brit Lit side.  The only venture outside of the English language so far has been Kafka.  And there is little representation from American Lit.  The Jurisficiton world (and all of Fforde's tastes for that matter) seems pretty shallow to me.  Also these books seem like a failed TV series that was turned into a &quot;novel,&quot;  but the problem is --despite Fforde's knowledge of classics of &quot;Great Literature&quot;-- he doesn't at all understand the concept of what makes a novel.  He only understands plot elements and incidents.  That is where the Thursday Next books succeed: in the individual (and sadly unrelated, almost nonsequitar-like) set pieces.  The books would make a better short story collection with interrelated characters than in passing them off as novels.  Maybe this is part of the big joke.  But I kind of get tired of all that stuff.  All the gadgets, all the dizzying rules and laws, the Generics, the grammasites, the PageRunners and on and on.  Enough already.  Stop overloading us with information.  Tell a story!  Interestingly, Fforde writes like a 19th century serial novelist constantly reminding the reader of things that have occurred in the past chapters, the crucial things thankfully, and you can put his books down for a full year and never suffer.  Perhaps that's a good thing, but for me it's a major fault.  Fforde's ever growing gargantuan monstrosities of fantasy/sci fi/crime novel genre-bending are beginning to weary me.  A nice diversion but no real lasting pleasure.with interrelated characters than in passing them off as novels.  Maybe this is part of the big joke.  But I kind of get tired of all that stuff.  All the gadgets, all the dizzying rules and laws, the Generics, the grammasites, the PageRunners and on and on.  Enough already.  Stop overloading us with information.  Tell a story!  Interestingly, Fforde writes like a 19th century serial novelist constantly reminding the reader of things that have occurred in the past chapters, the crucial things thankfully, and you can put his books down for a full year and never suffer.  Perhaps that's a good thing, but for me it's a major fault.  Fforde's ever growing gargantuan monstrosities of fantasy/sci fi/crime novel genre-bending are beginning to weary me.  A nice diversion but no real lasting pleasure.	2003-09-23
US	52775645	R3G9B553I19GYM	0385504470	598573199	Lullaby: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Excellent satire on many levels	I was drawn to this book not because of the author's so-called cult status among the hip and urban elite, but rather by his clever subject matter.  He invented the culling song he told one interviewer.  Wow!  A contemporary writer who actually uses his imagination.  There is such a monster out there.  And thank God! Or in this case-- Thank the Book of Shadows.  Whereas others find fault with the book's comic and satiric elements I think that the strength of the book lies in the funny parts.  How can you take the supernatural seriously, Palahniuk seems to be saying.  And what would happen if someone were given an unthinkable power to change the world?  Oh sure there's all that stuff about the noise of the city.  But the book is really about the seduction of power -- especially supernatural power.  Gimme, gimme, gimme.  I can kill you with words or even my thinking of words, so look out sucker. What's the running mantra (even emblazoned on the book and on the title page) that gets altered as the story progresses?  \\"Sticks and stone may break my bones, but Words can really kill you.\\"  (Something like that.  Don't have the book at my side now.) Each of the four characters wants something different from the culling song and eventually the grimoire.  Oyster wants to wreak havoc and return the world to his version of Paradise, Mona wants to change the world for the better but seems to be willing to endure a little mess because of her love for Oyster, Helen wants to return to her life before her son died, and Carl wants a personal kind of Justice.  It's a fast and gripping read.  I highly recommend it.  And I tell you, the scene where Carl and Helen meet Mona's coven is the funniest damn look at the New Age & Wicca movements I have ever read.	2002-09-23
US	52775645	R2LZ5EXIU45VDD	0385492995	911059821	The Intuitionist	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Up and down in the dark metropolis	There's a lot more going on here than one would think.  This thoroughly original novel is not so easy to classify either.  I don't think that Whitehead meant us to see the Empiricist/Intuitionist division as entirely  black and white issue.  Whitehead uses the period term &quot;colored&quot;  throughout the book as well and it is not just a historical word choice, in  my opinion.  After all, not all the Intuitionists are black.  Gould - the  escalator expert - is a redheaded Irish American and chooses to side with  the Intuitionist camp.  And even the role of characters like Marie Claire  Rogers (the black mistress/domestic of Fulton) is being overlooked by other  readers/reviewers.  Marie Claire clearly does not like what Lila Mae stands  for and accuses her of playing a role, wearing a uniform that makes her  someone other than who she should be in Marie's eyes.  And Lila Mae  continues to put on other uniforms and play other roles throughout the  novel in a kind of search for her place in this anonymous metropolis  populated with schemers and plotters.  What I like most about this book is  it's menacing atmosphere, a subtly sinister air that colors each incident,  each meeting, each exchange between characters in shades of deceit,  mistrust and duplicity.  This is like a literary marriage between Dashiell  Hammett and Ralph Ellison.  However, I fail to find anything riotously  funny here.  Whitehead's style is witty and biting at times, but there is  nothing knee-slapping, howlingly funny here.  Those who do find this some  kind of ha-ha comedy are most likely the people Whitehead is warning us  about.	2000-04-05
US	52775645	RAVU4K4CTL962	0393308480	966274716	Aurora 7	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Wondrous novel of synchronicity and familial bonding	This novel reminds a bit of Damascus by Richard Beard since they both tell the events of a single day with some play between real time and imagined time.  But unlike Beard's novel which rockets back and forth between past  and present reimagined and possible meetings between two specific  characters, Mallon uses multiple characters who eventually all cross paths  in one climactic moment as Scott Carpenter is being rescued from the ocean  after his successful orbit of the Earth in Aurora 7.  There are interesting  and bizarre historical coincidences peppered throughout the novel like the  Civil War reconnaissance balloon Intrepid that flew in May 1862, 100 years  before a Navy ship similarly named that recovered Carpenter.  I mostly  enjoyed how Mallon used the actual transcript of Carpenter's communication  with NASA technicians as a framework for the storyline the takes place on  Earth.  This novel is thoroughly imaginative and filled with a love of  humanity, the need for adventure and, most importantly, a respect for the  bonds between parent and child.  I read this to see if I would truly like  Mallon after reading reviews of Two Moons.  Now I'm set for his latest and  I expect it to be just as good, if not better.	2000-03-23
US	52775645	R1MH9M9UKG972D	0060392827	558936324	Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister	Books	5	137	148	N	N	Inventive and compassionate retelling of Cinderella	Just when you think there have been too many re-imagined versions of well-known fairy tales along comes one that brilliantly reinvents perhaps the archetype of all fairy tales.  Maguire, who previously wrote a  subversively political tale about the wicked witch of the west, surpasses  his debut novel with this compassionate tale of beauty and familial duty.  Once again his richly detailed prose captures that feeling of a once upon a  time that true fairy tales require and does so without ever appearing  artificial.  This story of Iris and Ruth, their complex mother Margarethe,  and their stepsister Clara of the 'afflicted eternal beauty' is filled with  wonderfully shaded characterizations that never fall into that good/evil  dichotomy that Grimm and Perault use in telling the original versions.  Can  kindness reside within ugliness?  Is beauty and attractiveness really  something to be envious of?  Is a mother's apparent tyrannical household an  environment that will produce wickedness?  Is a nearly mute sibling nothing  more than a drudge to babysit?  Find the answers to these not so simple  questions within Maguire's excellent story and be prepared to be reassess  your own prejudices about the 'ugly' and the 'beuatiful.'	1999-12-06
US	52775645	R9PTEJSABRNG4	0671027204	725696403	Frontiers	Books	2	16	26	N	N	Utterly unimpressed, dismally disappointed	I couldn't even get past the first 50 pages of this utterly amateurish novel.  The style is filled with awful inverted sentence structures like 'Startled, I jumped.'  and 'Trembling, I lay in the snow.'  The dialogue is  stilted --alternately contemporary then annoyingly arch,  like something  out of a bad period movie.  Characters are constantly peppering their  speech with the hundreds of 18th century terms that Jensen obviously spent  an awful lot of time researching (check out his unnecessary bibliography  with at least three books on colonial lingo).  The central character, a  dim-witted naif,  often whines about not wanting to chop wood or show any  interest in being a settler and only wanting the virile Daniel McQuay to  cook for him and strip off his shirt so Chapman can gape and fantasize.  Of  course Chapman is obsessed with the naked male physique, like so many  characters in gay fiction, and it's not long before he is masturbating to  relieve himself of his sexual fantasies in the second or third chapter.  I  didn't care about the italicized sections that begin each chapter in which  we are subjected to a cliche rendering of a 'traumatic' childhood and  couldn't wait to dump the book at my local thrift store.<br />It's astonishing  how many people find junk like this insulting embarrassment worthy of  laudatory comments.  I really can't believe gay men think this is the kind  of book we want to read.  It was infantile from the very first page. ...The  two stars are for the decent book cover illustration, the inside gets no  stars.	1999-11-30
US	52775645	R2EQ2DJDYNJ324	0312204787	931377968	The Skull Mantra (Inspector Shan Tao Yun)	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	Intelligent and compassionate, miles above the rest	Like the Himalayan mountains that tower over the Tibetan valleys of &quot;The Skull Mantra&quot;, this novel is miles above the rest of the crime fiction that crowd bookstores.  Pattison's tale of the struggles of a  group of Tibetan monks imprisoned in a communist Chinese labor camp is  filled with wisdom, compassion and a moral order that is so often lacking  in contemporary crime ficiton.  There is so much that is fascinating in  this novel:  the convoluted, and ironically highly bureaucratic, politics  of communist China; the dichotomy of a superstitious ancient Tibetan  religion that coexists with the simplicity of a more modern Buddhism; the  inner turmoil that many of the characters struggle with as they attempt to  reconcile where their allegiance lies - with Tibet or China?  So many  American writers feel that to achieve a grittier sense of  &quot;reality&quot; that their books need to spill blood by the gallon and  that the characters need to be soulless decandent wastrels.  Pattison gives  us characters who want forgiveness for their violence and actually exhibit  shame.  But, I guess this may be in part due to the Asian culture that  Pattison so excellently captures on the page.  American culture is so  unwilling to embrace shame, remorse and forgivenesss and I rarely find it  in the mystery novels that are published these days.	1999-09-20
US	52775645	R2MTGPD4K1WNS7	1565122151	172679935	Meeting Luciano: A Novel	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Sadly unimaginative for such a great premise	As this soap opera progresses, the story becomes more and more uninteresting. Emily, the fairly dull narrator, slowly discovers the judgements she made about her mother and her mother's contractor, Alex, are  all unfounded.  Of course in a book as formulaic as this one the reader has  made the discovery pages before the character does.  The tangental snippets  from Emily's past populated with unimaginatively realized characters like  Ben, the radical intellectual pseudo-boyfriend from college, are also  run-of-the-mill.  Esaki-Smith has an understanding of drama, but only in  terms of movie-of-the-week style relationships and situations.  Considering  the story is about the reconstruction of a house and, metaphorically the  entire household, and that Emily had plans to be an architect there was  such a wealth for dramatic development and surprises.  But all we get is  Emily's sorrowful musings of her muddling life as a waitress in a Japanese  steakhouse and her not-so-interesting past. And of course paragraphs of her  unapproving comments about the relationship between her mother and Alex.  The anticipated meeting with Pavarotti and how that meeting eventually  turns out is the only surprise in this sadly unfulfilling tale.	1999-09-14
US	52775645	R2WFVBOPGFTKG	0375405429	893031195	Italian Fever	Books	3	7	7	N	N	A book with an identity problem	I cannot dismiss it altogether.  What I picked up from the book is Martin's satiric writing and that Lucy Stark is similar to the heroine in Austen's \\"Northanger Abbey\\" who having read one too many Gothic novels lets her romantic imagination run away with her.  Similarly, Lucy is somewhat of a fool (not a cliche of a woman in her 30s as one reviewer here wrote. What exactly is that anyway?) who allows herself to be taken in by all her cliche notions of Italy and Italian men.  How can anyone take seriously her head-over-heels, schoolgirl infatuation with Massimo?  She never once thinks about the consequences of her adulterous affair although she is fully aware of his wife and children.  And she quickly becomes impatient and jealous when she thinks he is also carrying on with the beguiling artist Catherine. The only truly unfortunate element of this story is its flimsy, pseudo-gothic, mystery story element.  What began as a teasing story of foul play and an estate haunted by the ghost of murdered WWII Italian partisan quickly fizzles and is forgotten among the trappings of Martin's subtle send-up of all things Harlequinesque.  The sequence with Lucy's horrendously detailed food poisoning complete with hallucinations and a bit later the section where she locks herself out of the farmhouse and has to seek shelter in a brewing windy storm are perfect examples of what could have made for a true modern day Gothic novel.  So many writers today haven't a clue what constitutes a Gothic novel in its classic from.  One need only look at the first ten chapters of \\"Italian Fever\\" for a primer in excellent use of classic Gothic mood, description and setting.  I only wish there were more throughout the entire novel.	1999-08-27
US	52775645	R19DTU7KFU7V5M	0820320366	865560013	Riding the Demon: On the Road in West Africa (Association of Writers and Writing Programs Award for Creative Nonfiction)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A different kind of car culture	It's incredible that Chilson manages to convey the entire culture of Niger (as well as incidental discussions of its history during French colonialism) through his reporting of his travels with several bush taxi  drivers and how they manage their lives and the lives of their passengers  on the road.  Americans often think that we live in a car culture and have  a love/hate relationship with our overdependency on cars.  I challenge  anyone to read this book and not come away thinking that traffic problems  and reckless driving in our country are at best inconveniences compared to  the literal hell in Niger.  Here is a country where a highway patrol is  manned by the military and is funded almost entirely through bribes  extorted at road checks; where automobiles are literally pieced together  with wreckage from the hundreds of near daily, fiery crashes that seem to  line the Nigerien roads the way weeds and garbage line our highways; where  talismans to ward off the road demons that lurk in the night are carried by  everyone - not out of superstition - but in an earnest belief that one may  not make it to the end of one's journey without them.  Utterly fascinating,  expertly and cleanly written, this book is an eye-opening reading  experience.	1999-08-24
US	52775645	R1LAEY1F586B0V	089296670X	989700886	The Revenge of Kali-Ra	Books	3	7	12	N	N	I can think of plenty of funnier writers	I saw the cover of this book and smiled.  I used to read Fu Manchu novels and the mysteries of Seabury Quinn when I was a teenager (and this was in the 1970s!) and loved all the trappings of ersatz Asian occultism and the  army of thugs and dacoits armed with daggers and blowpipes with poison  darts.  But Beck's novel is not about those writers' creations nor is it a  very good parody of what it attempts to poke fun at.  Donald Westlake is  far funnier at the comic crime novel, so is Carl Hiassen.  They know their  worlds.  Beck seems to have done some cursory research (certainly Rohmer's  series is evident as well as references to Haggard's Allan Quartermain and  She-Who-Must-Be-Obeyed) but there's more contempt for the genre than any  real love of the pulps. And any true parodist really loves the subject he's  sending up and doesn't use that subject as a target of moralizing.  Beck  seems to be one of the writers who jumped on the bandwagon of the popular  comic crime novel because, at this time, it's a moneymaking genre.  Her  characters are lifted out of the realm of cliche (the bimbo starlet; the  failed lawyer with an equally failed love life; the alcoholic, sex-starved  screenwriter; etc. etc.) and can be found in any number of ho-hum popular  crime novel writers' books.  Finally, had I bothered to read the whole  blurb I would've learned this book was more about moviemaking (a topic I  loathe) and the moronic minds in Hollywood and I would've avoided it  completely.  I stayed for the pastiche of pulp writing which IS funny and  right on the mark.  Overall, this is pretty run-of-the-mill.  But for  anyone who lingered over the pages of a real trashy pulp thriller from the  30s or 40s, craving the action and melodrama of the evil East battling the  righteous West, it might be worth a read.	1999-08-19
US	52775645	R2P4U9GDRTNEJ4	0312186754	304974015	An Arrow's Flight	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A worthy award winner	Well, at last a book won an award that actually deserved that award.  Merlis' novel is thoroughly inventive, engaging from the very first page that starts &quot;In the Last Episode&quot; and gives a precis of the start  of the Trojan War.  The intermittent dialogue between nameless narrator and  reader (who is addressed as you)added to this cockeyed, anachronistic look  at love, sex and exile among the peripheral characters of a well-known  Greek tale of war and myth.  Usually, I despise these clever stories that  lift history (or fiction) out of its rightful era and dump it in the middle  of contemporary life.  But Merlis pulls this off with wit and never takes  himself too seriously, that is until he begins to address the emotional  lives of his well-developed characters.  Then the novel becomes  surprisingly moving and poignant. &quot;An Arrow's Flight&quot; uses  metaphor and mythology rather than documentation from modern day to  dramatic effect and, subsequently, makes its point more authentic.	1999-08-11
US	52775645	R1JXD9ZPKN8AHU	0802116353	129559433	Allan Stein	Books	4	22	25	N	N	Get over the age thing already!	Am I the only one who thinks this book is funny?  The  &quot;eroticism&quot; is utterly laughable.  Isn't that the point?  Isn't  this Stadler's light-hearted version of &quot;Lolita&quot; from a gay  perspective?  The narrator is an immature overgrown teen himself.  Obsessed  with anatomy and sex in a way only an adolescent's mind can be.  How can  anyone take two page long descriptions of a fifteen-year-old soccer boy's  body seriously?  Its hyperbolic on purpose.  And I'm a little tired of  people complaining about this underage thing.  The boy in the book is 15...  not 8 or 7 or 5... and the narrator is hardly over 35.  There are plenty of  relationships, both gay and straight, where there are age differences of 15  or 20 years.  I like this book.  The style is arch, witty and satirically  pretentious.  I don't find the humor forced at all and I smiled a lot  without a trace of wincing.  Also, I returned from a trip to Paris last  month and the French setting made the book all the more enjoyable and had  me longing to return to check out all the places I missed	1999-07-21
US	52775645	R3CFQ31PMQ0OM9	0374184054	654533738	Last Things	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Utterly original, yet painfully sad	I am surprised that no one has commented on the overall tone of this book which is painfully sad. I started &quot;Last Things&quot; eagerly (having waited for months to find a copy) and ripped through the book in less than  two days.  But as soon as Jonathan accepted the job as his brother's  replacement on the Mr. Science show, and Anna took Grace on the road trip  tainted with memoried of her past love affair with Michael, the novel lost  all its winsomeness and took on a decidedly somber tone.  I left the book  feeling abandoned - just as Grace is left longing for her mother. It may be  a magical novel, original in conception and beguiling in its imagery, but  ultimately the writer offers us a rather pessimistic vision of troubled  souls who are in constant search for escape and illusion.	1999-07-19
US	52775645	R1U88L57L0T7K4	037550155X	185548081	The Handyman: A Novel	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Well someone really hates this...but not me	If there were a monitor at Amazon to look over these reveiws he/she would discover that all the invective that has been thrown at See's novel on these web pages is the work of one person.  Every one star review has the  same tone, the same vocabulary, the same &quot;message.&quot;  Only someone  who loathes humankind could loathe this book so much.  I also note that  every single one star review is anonymous.  Of course.  Only cowards can  hate so much.  I can't find anything in the pages of The Handyman that  would spark such a tirade - other than that here is a novel that finally  features characters interacting with each other on the most basic of  levels, with concern and compassion, on a level that REAL people seem to  have forgotten.  I am enjoying this book and the Samaritan acts of Bob are  far from treacly.  Maybe for the pessimists and the misanthropes this book  is an easy target for the pseudo-intellectual pans and ersatz hip  review-speak that hatemongers love to dispense.  But for the rest of the  world - people who understand that to be alive is to care about fellow  human beings - here is a book that is a primer for living as we approach a  new century.  Believe me, as the year 2000 approaches the world needs more  handymen and painters like Bob Hampton.	1999-06-25
US	52775645	RS9V9JA5LVDTN	0452281032	825719637	The Mammy	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A mixed comic bag from Ireland	At first I couldn't get even a smile from this often overly cute (sometimes annoying) comic fictionalized memoir of life in 1960s Dublin.  O'Carroll's love of his characters is evident, but his penchant for malapropisms was often irritating.  How can Agnes not know how to pronounce  orgasm (let alone not know what one is) and be fully aware of a male  child's biological changes in puberty?  Why is she ignorant about certain  adolescent slang terms for body parts and yet completely clued into every  other word?  It bothered me that he contrived these elements for cheap  boyish body part jokes and it made Agnes seem stupid instead of naive  (which I guess is what he tried for, but naivete certainly doesn't suit  her).  But when Agnes defended the nun's attack on her daughter's hair I  finally laughed out loud.  Any character who belts a nun with a cucumber  earns major points with me since I wanted to do so years ago when I was  attending a Catholic school.  Maybe I didn't envision a cucumber as my  weapon of choice, but I still longed to give a real sock to several of the  nasty tempered nuns who often pulled hair and slapped students when  screaming didn't suffice.  From this point on (about one-third through) the  novel finally comes alive.  But for all the rest of the bothersome gags and  pseudo-clever antics I did enjoy this book.  It's not literature, for sure,  but for anyone with a little of the Irish or Catholic in him it's worth a  breeze through.  It'll make a good airline book - you can speed through  this light reading in a day easily.	1999-06-24
US	52775645	R2V3537W3C2DB7	1569470170	183959132	Outsider in Amsterdam (Grijpstra & de Gier Mysteries)	Books	4	85	88	N	N	Best discovery this year of an &quot;old master&quot;	I have been wanting to read these books for a while and finally found the time to dig into this first one on a long flight to Europe.  Perfect setting for reading any of van deWetering's books.  These novels are  thoroughly European and I loved the way the characters spoke and  interacted.  I especially enjoyed the pervasive air of morality throughout  the book.  So many of contemporary thrillers lack that essential element.  The novelist makes good use of his obvious Buddhist beliefs and sprinkles  some quite beautiful thoughts (when de Gier meets the father of a female  suspect take extra time to linger over his philosophy.  It's utterly  engaging and memorable) throughout this story of the search for the killer  of a murdered spiritual adviser and some smarmy drug dealing in 1970s  Amsterdam.  This book also contains the first villain with a conscience  I've ever encountered in all my decades of mystery reading.  I look forward  to completing the series.	1999-06-17
US	52775645	R20EEF8TWCKPY0	0571199585	539365507	Tree Surgery for Beginners	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Well done novel with a 19th century feel	I liked this book enormously.  It had such a contemporary feel to it and yet I couldn't help draw comparisons to 19th century writers like Hardy, Dickens, and Collins.  The novel starts out with a criminal investigation  but quickly resolves that plotline and delves into the workings of the  family.  Like a network of branches and twigs in a maturing tree, we follow  the characters in increasingly complicated paths and watch how they keep  crossing those paths in outrageous coincidence after coincidence.  For  those readers that love novels of character and writers who work wonders  with the English language, this is a novel worth discovering.	1999-06-17
US	52775645	R3CPH62TFTWPGJ	0375405275	609497079	The Houdini Girl: A Novel	Books	4	16	17	N	N	There's a difference between magic and &quot;romance&quot;	I normally don't respond to other people's review, but I have to here.  Houdini Girl is not about magic and is not supposed to be a magical love story. It is a novel that makes a thoroughly inventive use of illusion and  explores the deceit and secrets between two people who had completely  different perceptions of each other.  I found nothing offensive in the book  and found it to be the ONLY book about a magician/illusionist that  understood the concept of 20th century magic as entertainment.  Bedford's  insights into the obsession with dismembering women and rearranging women's  bodies in the guise of entertainment and its correlation to the male  obsession with sexually possessing and coveting women's bodies is one of  the more original aspects of this fascinating book.  It's the story of  discovering the truth about what and who you thought you fell in love with  and not a &quot;love story&quot; at all.	1999-05-10
US	52775645	R1RL9POT8QS2Q7	0399144927	842485314	The Breaker	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Minette...what happened?	Oddly enough, I grew to envy Walters' labyrinthine plots and nasty characters. My impression has always been that she has been trying to subvert the genre by populating her novels with loathsome, complex  characters whose lives are open to interpretation by the slanted  perceptions of the others in each book. This presents us with a world of  ambiguity. Walters' unusual talent, and for me the appeal of her crime  stories, lies in her creating characters who alternately make our flesh  crawl with their quirks and perversities then elicit our sympathy when we  understand the events that lead to choices they make. However, for my  tastes, The Breaker is run-of-the-mill. The story begins with an excerpt  from a book called The Mind of A Rapist and its elementary Freudian  analysis automatically forces the reader to overanalyze each of the male  characters' libidos. Maybe this is her point. But obviously the suspect  list is immediately limited to one sex. Much of the &quot;romance&quot;  angle I felt was merely padding and could have been dispensed with. The  Jenners were intrusive and annoying and I didn't care about any of their  storyline. Overall, fewer twists and hardly a single surprise. I wanted to  gasp at the end, not shrug and say &quot;But of course.&quot;	1999-04-29
US	52775645	R327YLQSFVBC32	094407278X	165140116	Murder in the Museum of Man	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Hilarious academic satire &amp; parody of the mystery genre	I love nothing more than a good skewering of the intelligentsia.  This novel is laugh out loud funny in its relentless and irreverent atttacks on academia in all its self-absorbed importance and megalomania.  The  discovery of a human corpse done up in a variety of gourmet dishes that  apparently has been served or eaten by the murderer sets us off on a tour  of creepy and absurd goings-on at the Museum of Man.  As an added bonus,  throughout the novel there are is hysterical puns and allusions to  contemprorary fiction and great literature.  Pay attention to the odd names  of the characters and you may find a few anagrams.  My favorite is the  scene in the Skull Collection Room when Norman, while holding the skull of  Rick Royrick (!), a deceased food critic, says:  &quot;I knew him, Alger.  He was known to be a man of infinite digestion.&quot; ) This book was  superb and often surprisingly poignant.	1999-03-06
US	52775645	R34E14JU1VHJCR	0374283923	150979101	The Vintner's Luck: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Ingenious story of an angel who craves love	The end of this decade and the approach of the new century has given rise to an explosion of angel stories, novels and TV series. Elizabeth Knox's novel chooses to take us back in time rather than place yet another angel  in 20th century in a remarkable and imaginative (at last) vision of a  friendship and love between human and 'superhuman.' The 19th century  pastiche-like prose takes a while to get used to, but the characters and  their interactions are the real hook and what keep the pages turning. Xas,  the fallen angel, is one of the more original creations I've come across.  At last angel who isn't goofily adorable or full of God's piety come down  to Earth to preach to humans: 'Please love each other.' In fact, Xas, as it  turns out, wants a little of that human love for himself and it comes at a  terrible price. Dreamy and erotic at times, The Vintner's Luck is a novel  of daring, irreverence and wonder. And you learn a bit about wine and  winemaking while reading.	1999-03-05
US	52775645	R3C7UMGF8IP6QW	0446675172	972725087	Like a Hole in the Head	Books	2	2	3	N	N	More rehash from the Slacker Lit shelves	I wanted to like this book.  Fall in love with it as nearly everyone else has.  But like all this Slacker and Gen X crap, it is filled with mean spiritedness, empty selfish pursuits of sex and rehash after rehash of  caper movies and \\"noir flicks\\" of the past.  How a playwright  gets away with this flimsy excuse of a novel is beyond me.  The majority of  this book is devoted to pointless tangental descriptions of urban city  minutiae that anyone with a real viewpoint (or any point at all) would've  abandoned in favor of deeper plumbing of Jill's troubled psyche.  By the  end of the \\"novel\\" I guess Banbury's point is that Jill is a  sarcastic, apathetic empty soul due to that \\"thing\\" about her  mother that continues to haunt her dreams.  Obviously, I can't mention the  \\"thing\\" without spoiling the book.  Still, Banbury's spins on  this tired chase-the-MacGuffin plot had some freshness.  I really should've  avoided it, though.  And you should too if you prefer a real story instead  of a series of incidents and a lot of what passes for hip humor these days.  Plenty of gorey bloodshed and sadistic torture sequences for the crowd  that craves body pile-ups and cruelty.  Maybe that's why its so popular.  And that doesn't surprise me at all.	1999-03-05
US	52775645	R3AVZPF2ZT7S9N	0395901065	339730432	The Boy	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Overrated debut	What starts out as a novel of a search with witty dialogue and a great hook into the story meanders into a tale of degradation, manipulation and obsession.  Pretentious beyond belief (and don't literary critics love all  that fancy wordplay?) I found that as this tale progressed all humor was  wrung out of it in favor of lurid descriptions of unfortunate young men  forced to sell their bodies, overly long passages of hackneyed religious  symbolism from Metaphors 101 and insulting scenarios with dismally minded  characters who fall under the spell of the Machiavellian, multiply named  &quot;boy&quot; of the title.  It is quite apparent that Murr is attempting  to say something about sexual obsession and longing for love in a world  that is seemingly barren and forlorn, but for my tastes I thought his point  was reiterated in several shades of purple prose.  These stories of sexual  obsession are beginning to wear on my nerves and the story's finale, in  which we learn the &quot;terrible secret&quot; of what really happened to  Sean Hennessy's children, was like a bad Vegas magician dressing up a tired  levitation act with glitzy costumes and brassy music.  &quot;The Boy&quot;  is tawdry and self-consciously flashy - perfectly suited for a Vegas  analogy.	1999-03-01
