US	52776043	R17WH3553DIVQ8	1563893096	952631835	Batman: Masque	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A timeless tale from turn of the century Gotham.	The fantastic DC Comics \\"Elseworlds\\" publications focus on creating unique, alternate-reality stories for well-established characters of the DC Comics universe by placing them in times they don't belong to, and places and situations they would never find themselves in otherwise.   Masque, from the Elseworlds' Batman series, is a story set in a dark, turn of the century Gotham City that retells the tale of \\"The Phantom of the Opera,\\" from Gaston Leroux's 1911 novel, incorporating along the way a few clever twists and pleasurable surprises.    When Batman is called by Commissioner Gordon to help him catch an elusive escaped prisoner from Gotham Jail, he doesn't know that his pursuit will take him backstage the city's theater during the ballet performance of Poe's \\"Mask of the Red Death.\\" Neither does he know that he'll witness the horrible accident that will leave the lead male dancer, Harvey Dent, permanently scarred on the entire left side of his body.  Soon, more suspicious accidents and mysterious deaths involving performers and producers of the ballet take place, while a sinister figure that lurks backstage in the theater urges Laura Avian, an understudy ballerina and socialite Bruce Wayne's fiancée, to become one with her career, a career that seems to be apparently advancing as a consequence of the tragedies. Is the person hiding behind the curtains responsible for the recent events? Or is another of Laura Avian's secret admirers driving her career forward without minding the cost? Will Batman be able to solve the mystery in time to prevent more deaths?  Its emotional, suspenseful and action packed plot, and excellent characterizations make Masque a very enjoyable and entertaining reading, but its wonderful details are what make it a especially delightful tale: the old fashioned language used in the dialogues, the choice of historically accurate clothing (including the design of Batman's costume), the period settings (Batman's Batcave looks like a combinationof Frankenstein's laboratory and Dracula's castle). Moreover, its unconventional, sketchy art style resembles the type of illustrations fashionable during the time in which the story's set and gives the narrative an air of authenticity, and its choice of colors and utilization of shadows perfectly captures the ominous atmosphere of the era and the supernatural aura of the original story.  This is a very pleasing, brilliantly illustrated, exceptionally well-written tale and an outstanding homage to Leroux's novel. Enjoy!  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2005-08-03
US	52776043	RE4WJBYU73UA4	1401204244	874348021	Batman: Arkham Asylum (15th Anniversary Edition) A Serious House on Serious Eart h	Books	5	188	199	N	N	An inside look at a madman's nightmare.	First, there are two things anyone interested in purchasing or reading this title should know about it beforehand. One, that it is probably not for everyone's taste as it isn't your traditional Batman vs. the villain-of-the-week sort of story, but rather a darker, more disturbing kind of tale that focuses on a deep, complex exploration of madness, told alternately from three different points of view: that of Amadeus Arkham, founder of the asylum, that of Batman and his other persona, Bruce Wayne, and of course, that of all the madmen locked up at the asylum, including the super villains.<br />Two, that it is \\"Suggested for Mature Readers\\" on the back cover as it's probably one of the most unnecessarily violent and ghastly graphic novels ever published under the Batman title, although, I definitely think - regardless of it being at times a bit too disgusting for my taste - that it's also one of the most original and beautifully illustrated narratives ever created for the genre. The superb artwork is perfect for the story with its surreal, dreamy, and suggestive look, even if, on occasion, it gets a little difficult to follow, especially with certain clashing combinations of colors and typographies. Still, the lavish intricacy of the compositions and the broad range of techniques used by the artist are a spectacular visual feast worth the price of the book alone.<br />The dual story, told in a nicely interwoven parallel, on one hand, explores Arkham's past and how his reasons for founding the asylum derived from decisions he made during the most crucial points of his life, and on the other, focuses on Batman's present day mission to go inside the asylum and, while confronting the insecurities about his own sanity, regain control of the facility after it's been taken over by the Joker.<br />Arkham's story is from beginning to end an emotional journey through the situations and escalating tragedies that can slowly drive a man insane. It's marvelously shrouded in a veil of mystery and superstition, and brilliantly placed in time during the beginning of the 1900's both by the overall mood of the art and the historical details sprinkled here and there, including, among others, having Arkham meet and learn from both Carl Jung and Aleister Crowley.<br />Batman's story, told from both his point of view and that of the inmates' is, on the other hand, a lot darker, more twisted and sadly less consistent. Our hero's mischaracterization, present throughout the whole story, is obvious from his first line of dialogue, with which he's not only portrayed as a constantly daunted man, but also as one who reacts with shock and disbelief to the inmates' atrocities and maniacal behavior that he's so used to fighting. Contrastingly, the clever analysis of Joker's psychosis is brilliant right to very last page of the book, even in spite of the endless sexually perverted innuendos from him - who even hints at a homosexual relationship between Batman and Robin - that somewhat lessen the impact of the story's emotional momentum.<br />The story concludes with the most satisfactory ending I've so far encountered in any graphic novel - worthy of a 5-star rating on its own -, an excellent comparison of the contrasts and similarities between Arkham and Batman's sense of duty, the ghosts of their pasts, and the skeletons in each one's closet.<br />As you'd expect from the title, along with the Joker, a fair amount of villains make an appearance, enriching Arkham Asylum's decadent milieu, among them Two-Face, Mad Hatter, Scarecrow, Killer Croc, Clayface, Prof. Milo, Dr. Destiny, Maxie Zeus, Black Mask, etc. The constant references to April Fools' Day and Alice in Wonderland, the changes introduced to Two-Face's alter ego, Harvey Dent, and the re-imagining of some of the other super villains, are truly delightful as well. But where the most pleasant surprises of the story lie for me are on Batman's iterated questioning of the \\"cures\\" administered to the inmatesby the asylum's doctors, and the contemplation of the possibility that madness might not only be a physical illness but that it could also be a contagious disease.<br />Despite the fact that this book could use some degree of fine-tuning in a few places and a little less unwarranted violence in others, overall it holds its own and delivers a fantastic story about how different people perceive the world around them when they see it through their own biases.<br />This 15th Anniversary Edition includes a section with the original sketches and story conceptualizations done for this title that presents an amazing view of the artists' creative process.<br />Definitely a must-have addition to any serious Batman collection.<br />--Reviewed by M. E. Volmars, and the contemplation of the possibility that madness might not only be a physical illness but that it could also be a contagious disease.  Despite the fact that this book could use some degree of fine-tuning in a few places and a little less unwarranted violence in others, overall it holds its own and delivers a fantastic story about how different people perceive the world around them when they see it through their own biases.  This 15th Anniversary Edition includes a section with the original sketches and story conceptualizations done for this title that presents an amazing view of the artists' creative process.  Definitely a must-have addition to any serious Batman collection.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2005-07-28
US	52776043	R3H5OV4YTVF7X8	1401201938	587774381	Arkham Asylum: Living Hell	Books	3	10	15	N	Y	A convoluted telling of a weird, uneven tale.	Arkham Asylum is the psychiatric hospital of Batman's Gotham City, and this is a story about what being involved with it and living inside it entails to the doctors, to the orderlies, to the madmen, to Dr. Jeremiah Arkham, and even to Batman himself. The story is told mostly through the eyes of a sleazy lawyer, Warren White a.k.a. \\"The Great White Shark,\\" who pleads insanity on charges of fraud to avoid going to prison, and thus gets sent to the asylum for a period of observation, being unlucky enough to arrive just before the inmates take over and the unavoidable chaos ensues.  But the interesting premise of this story soon dwindles into a disjointed parade of characters whose fleeting appearances amount to nothing more than a twisted, violent, incoherent and very disappointing tale that only allows glimpses of what could have been a wonderful collage of fascinating and correlated stories.  The best ideas, introduced right at the beginning of the book, are entirely underplayed: the development of some newly created characters and the provocative re-envisioning of some old ones, the exploration of the villains' psychoses and motivations, and White's perceptions of Batman's most dangerous enemies from the point of view of someone unfamiliar to their level of insanity. Instead, the story dawdles on scrutinizing what it takes to survive at Arkham as a patient, and on some other equally uninteresting subjects that add nothing to the story and are mostly left inconclusive by the end of the book: the schemes and intrigues of the inmates, the alliances between cellmates, the trade of smuggled goods, the privileges granted to some patients by the guards. Sadly, it also substitutes good storytelling with vast quantities of violence, bloodshed and gore as a way to grip the reader's attention.  But, without a doubt, this tale's weakest point is its conclusion. Not only it bewilderingly and repeatedly shifts focus without the slightest hint of a smooth transition, it also incorporates a supernatural element involving exorcisms, the undead, and even Jason Blood a.k.a. the demon Etrigan, which is so off-the-wall it seems to belong to an entirely different story altogether.  On the other hand, the artwork on this volume is so amazing; it deserves a 5-star rating on its own. With a masterful use of color schemes and rich, detailed compositions it perfectly conveys the mood of the ambiance and the attitude of each character even where the writing fails.  Still, this is a story that never develops to its full potential, and that is difficult to enjoy even for a die-hard Batman fan like myself. If you are interested in taking a look inside the world of Arkham Asylum, I recommend you read instead the far superior \\"Arkham Asylum: A Serious House on Serious Earth\\" by Grant Morrison.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2005-07-27
US	52776043	R300D4I6SIH2US	1401204686	732672184	JLA: Pain of the Gods	Books	4	6	8	N	Y	A different, but enjoyable look at the JLA superheroes.	Envision yourself as a superhero. Imagine dedicating your life to protecting innocents from crime, natural disasters, accidents, and the occasional super villain. Picture all the people you save each day and all the crises you avert. Now, think of what would happen if, regardless of all your superpowers and your constant vigilance, one day you suddenly failed, and the consequence of your failure meant the demise of those you swore to protect.  This paperback edition of the collected issues of JLA #101 to #106 tells us exactly what happens when six of our best-loved superheroes - Superman, Flash, Green Lantern, Martian Manhunter, Wonder Woman and Batman - find themselves in precisely that situation, and are confronted by death, either as a result of their inability to prevent the loss of innocent lives, or through the questioning of their own mortality.   But this tale might not appeal to everyone, especially devoted fans of the comics' continuity: it takes us on a psychological exploration of the humanity that lies beneath each character's apparent omnipotence and shows us their fears, needs, desires, strengths, and weaknesses - even their hard to acknowledge limitations - reasonably departing from the ongoing storyline and characterizations on the JLA's and their own monthly issues, and appearing closer to their portrayals in the JL and JLU animated series.  Nonetheless, this is a wonderfully told story, where woven into every hero's tale is also a profound look at the value of friendship, highlighting the importance of the relationships forged through the JLA between these seemingly invulnerable and amazing individuals, and how those relationships provide them comfort and support when the burden of their missions becomes heavier with added insecurities and personal losses.  All the action and emotion of the story is perfectly captured by the superb illustrations that, while simple and as easy to interpret as a film's storyboard, are rendered with much attention todetail. Especially delightful is the choice of colors applied throughout the book. Not only does it correspond with the color scheme of the superhero on whom the story is focusing, but it also reflects his or her mood as the story's emotional weight shifts from one situation to the other.  This is a unique and satisfying title worth enjoying, and a deserving addition to any serious DC Comics fan's collection.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2005-07-25
US	52776043	R2DQ322XIW25QD	1582970076	219557233	Worlds of Wonder: How to Write Science Fiction & Fantasy	Books	4	5	6	N	N	An unconventional, noteworthy reference.	Although this book doesn't qualify as a traditional how-to reference, but mainly as a collection of tips, tricks and techniques on improving your science fiction and fantasy writing, it does rank high above the majority of references available on this topic, which are usually only aimed at psyching up the reader with nothing more than fluffy, feel-good advice that's completely useless to anyone with little more than some basic schooling, some common sense, and a few hours of writing practice.  Award-winning author David Gerrold, particularly well known to Trekkies for his Star Trek Original Series' episode \\"The Trouble with Tribbles,\\" presents this book in such a pleasant, entertaining and enthusiastic style that you'll be enticed not only to read it through on your first sitting, but also to keep coming back to it time and again.  The short and very easy to find sections into which the book is divided go straight to the point without overlooking anything of importance and retaining all the necessary ideas to clearly explain the points being made. The selection of basic and not-so-basic topics included range from conceptualizing your first ideas (characters, settings, plot) to editing and selling your completed manuscripts. The chosen examples, picked out of both the author's own work and classic sources of the genres, are always accurate and easy to understand. And the very practical suggestions on technique and the reminders on style sprinkled throughout the book will undoubtedly help you create and maintain healthy and fruitful writing habits if followed.  Whereas, in this volume, the ever-present anecdotic remarks of the author might be more appealing to the practiced writer who's lived through similar experiences than to the beginner, the sound information on the craft of writing itself will certainly be useful to both. This may not be the ultimate reference on science fiction and fantasy writing - for that I would turn to either \\"How to Write Science Fiction &Fantasy\\" by Orson Scott Card or \\"Writing Science Fiction and Fantasy\\" by Crawford Kilian - but it is definitely a useful and enjoyable reading. Buy this book, enjoy it, and take the counsel it gives as you would that of a good friend.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2005-07-25
US	52776043	RRZ4Q0FFFTXFY	158297103X	219557233	How to Write Science Fiction & Fantasy	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Undoubtedly the best reference on the basics of the craft.	After having read almost every available book on writing science fiction and fantasy specifically, I think that the combination of this volume and Crawford Kilian's \\"Writing Science Fiction and Fantasy\\" constitutes the most complete, practical and useful source of advice and information for any writer interested in stepping into or perfecting the craft of writing in either genre, in any form, any length or any language.<br />This concise, well-organized, award-winning reference on the fundamentals of writing genre fiction is written by one of science fiction and fantasy's most prominent contemporary writers. His conversational style, enjoyable and entertaining, is perfectly paired with the book's user-friendly format for a delightful and smooth reading experience, whether you peruse the book systematically, cover-to-cover, or simply consult it on specific topics.<br />The wide variety of subjects covered include an introduction to both genres, techniques on world creation (clothing, traditions, languages, geography), advice on story construction (characters, viewpoint, plot, theme), keys to good writing, (exposition, leads, hooks, language, grammar), and the business of writing (markets, publishers, classes, organizations, awards). Solid examples, taken from well-known titles as well as the author's work, masterfully illustrate the points being explained, while delightful anecdotes of the author's growth as a writer - his struggles, his mistakes, his triumphs - give inexperienced writers a clear picture of what being a professional in this business really entails.<br />The last sub-section of the book, \\"Life at Home,\\" is a genuinely special bonus to any writer; in it the author offers in a matter-of-fact and straightforward way some heartfelt, inspiring advice on how to commit to the craft and be able live a good and fulfilling life as a writer.<br />While reading this book won't turn you into a great writer overnight - only lots and lots of writing practice and lots and lots of reading from the genre you want to write in will make you master the craft - from reading this book you can expect three basic things: a) to get a clear picture of the craft, business and life of writers; b) to acquire a thorough understanding of the essential elements of the fantasy and science fiction genres; and c) to discover invaluable advice, nifty tips, and helpful techniques from a published author on how to improve your craft and avoid some common pitfalls that could hinder your development as a writer.<br />If you are serious about creating science fiction and fantasy stories fit to print, then get this superb resource and follow its advice, and you'll stay on the right track, guaranteed.<br />Also recommended: \\"Writing Science Fiction and Fantasy\\" by Crawford Kilian.<br />--Reviewed by M. E. Volmarading from the genre you want to write in will make you master the craft - from reading this book you can expect three basic things: a) to get a clear picture of the craft, business and life of writers; b) to acquire a thorough understanding of the essential elements of the fantasy and science fiction genres; and c) to discover invaluable advice, nifty tips, and helpful techniques from a published author on how to improve your craft and avoid some common pitfalls that could hinder your development as a writer.  If you are serious about creating science fiction and fantasy stories fit to print, then get this superb resource and follow its advice, and you'll stay on the right track, guaranteed.  Also recommended: \\"Writing Science Fiction and Fantasy\\" by Crawford Kilian.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2005-07-19
US	52776043	R1469519LCY4UK	1401205127	869305581	Justice League Unlimited Vol. 1: United They Stand	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	Excellent stories, great fun for all.	This 102-page, 7\\" x 5\\" mini-sized volume is a fantastic addition to any comic book collection, and fun entertainment for kids and adults alike. It contains five complete short stories inspired on the Cartoon Network's animated \\"Justice League Unlimited\\" (JLU) series. Matching the writing and artistic style of the show, the stories are filled with action-packed plots, clear and precise dialogues, detailed drawings, vivid colors, and tons of good humor, and each one showcases more than a handful of superheroes and villains, all straight out of the recently expanded lineup of characters on the series.  The stories included, which were originally published individually as monthly issues of the JLU magazine, are the following:  *JLU #1: Divide & Conquer - When Superman, Wonder Woman and Captain Atom suddenly go berserk and are unable to recall their actions later on, they decide to quit the League and go into hiding before they end up hurting someone. It's up to Batman, Zatanna, Hawkgirl and Flash to discover what or who is behind their strange behavior.  *JLU #2: Poker Face - Superman, Flash, Huntress, Steel and Booster Gold's Poker Night in the League's Watchtower gets interrupted when they receive a report that the Royal Flush Gang is breaking havoc in Las Vegas, and it's up to them to protect the city that's so famous for its casinos, Elvis sightings and Marilyn Monroe impersonators.  *JLU #3: Small Time - When Atom mysteriously materializes on top of the Watchtower's meeting room table, looking seriously ill and battered, is up to him, Wonder Woman, Ice and Firestorm to fight off the new threat of microscopic invaders from another dimension that he has just discovered.  *JLU #4: Local Hero - Batman, Superman, Martian Manhunter and Elongated Man are celebrating on the Planet Rann after helping Adam Strange put away the evil conqueror Kanjar Ro. But Salaan, a young Rannian, doesn't believe that the planet needs an alien as its guardian, so he steals an old Adam Strange costume and frees Kanjar Ro to make his point by proving that he alone can recapture him. When the villain proves too much for Salaan, it's up to the local hero and the members of the League to capture him before he makes Salaan pay for his foolishness with his life.  *JLU #5: Monitor Duty - Blue Beetle seems bored out of his mind while on monitor duty at the Watchtower almost five hours before his shift ends and Green Lantern's begins. After trying some snacks, some costume swapping, some ego surfing on the net, and some casual chatting with other JLU members, a strange noise draws his attention to an intruder. The General, who had to be taken on by the whole JLU team the last time he was captured, was left in deep space as punishment for his deeds, but has just come back seeking revenge. It's up to Blue Beetle to stop this seemingly invincible menace on his own or perish in the effort.  Although this title is advertised as a graphic novel for kids, it's an enjoyable read for everyone who likes comics and the characters of the DC universe, particularly if they are also fans of the show. It's also a healthy tool, free of the needless violence and gruesomeness so familiar to comic books today, with which to set an example for kids on the real meaning of friendship, teamwork, conviction, trust, sacrifice and other values and ideals embodied by the League's superheroes.  Whether you buy this delightful little title for yourself or for your kids, you won't be disappointed.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2005-07-14
US	52776043	RQJHNHPM7W4VJ	0385189494	678062379	Best-Loved Folktales of the World (The Anchor Folktale Library)	Books	5	17	18	N	Y	Fascinating anthology with a story from every culture.	This rich, nearly 850-page long volume contains two hundred carefully selected folk and fairy tales from all over the world that include adventure, mystery, romance, humor, drama, fantasy and horror. You will find this book difficult to put down whether you decide to enjoy it on your own, or read from it to your children in family gatherings or at bedtime.   Organized by geographic region, from Europe to the Middle East to Asia, Africa and America, this wide-ranging collection includes some well-known stories like \\"Jack and the Beanstalk\\" and \\"Beauty and the Beast,\\" and not so known, but equally charming ones like \\"\\"The Forest Bride\\" and \\"The Fire on the Mountain,\\" all of which will evoke feelings of awe and wonder at the vast wealth of traditions and mythologies of our world's cultures.  Moreover, the wonderful introduction to this volume explains the considerations that went into selecting the tales, commenting on the origins, evolution, lore, compilation and study of the world's folktales, analyzing their motifs, and even presenting interesting comparisons between them.  As a bonus, this book includes a category index to help you choose the tales according to their topic, including tales of Wise Men and Judges, tales of Giants, Ogres and Male Monsters, and tales of Ghosts and the Supernatural, among others. A thorough index by title is also available.  Overall, this is the best collection of fairy tales and folktales available in a single volume.  Get it today, and enjoy it for years to come.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2005-07-12
US	52776043	R1JX0PEUWDJJJ4	1551801892	508227184	Writing Science Fiction and Fantasy (Self-Counsel Writing)	Books	4	31	33	N	N	One of the two best references on the subject.	After having read almost every available book on writing science fiction and fantasy specifically, I think that the combination of this volume and Orson Scott Card's \\"How to Write Science Fiction & Fantasy\\" constitutes the most complete, practical and useful source of advice and information for any writer interested in stepping into or perfecting the craft of writing in either genre, in any form, any length or any language.  This concise, well-organized, excellent reference is written in a warm, enthusiastic and conversational style that's as pleasing to the mind as the voice of a dear friend is to the ears, and you will be drawn to read it cover to cover in just one sitting. But with its highly detailed table of contents and easy-to-use format, it's also perfect if you only want to do a quick check-up or consultation on a specific topic or idea.  The author begins by offering a detailed description of what the genres and subgenres of science fiction and fantasy are, and a general summary of the elements considered to be essential to each - ideas that although seemingly obvious as a starting point for this type of book are surprisingly either just barely touched or completely overlooked on most other titles. He expands on this topic by carefully detailing the relevance and influence that diverse areas of knowledge like mythology, history, sociology, philosophy, science, have on both genres.  Then, he examines a wide variety of subjects on each genre in particular as well as on the craft of writing in general, from idea generation to organization to researching, from character development to point of view to voice, style and tone, from structure to editing to English grammar and punctuation, from word processors and manuscript formatting to work habits. He masterfully uses many excellent examples to illustrate each point being made, and while most are taken from well-known classic and contemporary titles, some are from the author's own works, allowing us a glimpse atthe quality of his storytelling abilities.   The section on marketing and publishing is especially helpful to beginners and unpublished writers as it discusses topics like choosing the right market, editor, publisher, and agent, and understanding contracts and copyrights. In the appendix, the lists of related readings and websites are truly an added bonus for those seeking a deeper treatment of any area discussed by the author, and the multiple exercises present throughout the book are a stimulating way to introduce us to some new creative methods for generating story ideas.  While you can't really learn how to write by reading any one reference or any one guide - only lots and lots of writing practice and lots and lots of reading from the genre you want to write in will make you an effective writer - there are a few books that can actually help you polish your craft and fine-tune your ideas, and this is one of those. From reading this book you can expect three basic things: a) to get a clear picture of the craft, business and life of writers; b) to acquire a thorough understanding of the essential elements of the genres and subgenres in both fantasy and science fiction; and c) to discover invaluable, time-tested advice, tips and techniques from a published author on how to improve your craft and avoid some common pitfalls that could hinder your development as a writer.  If you are serious about creating science fiction and fantasy stories fit to print, then get this nifty resource and follow its advice, and you'll stay on the right track, guaranteed.  Also recommended: \\"How to Write Science Fiction & Fantasy\\" by Orson Scott Card.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2005-07-11
US	52776043	R1QLM5A69E716U	0930289560	874348021	Batman: Arkham Asylum	Books	5	18	19	N	Y	An inside look at a madman's nightmare.	First, there are two things anyone interested in purchasing or reading this title should know about it beforehand. One, that it is probably not for everyone's taste as it isn't your traditional Batman vs. the villain-of-the-week sort of story, but rather a darker, more disturbing kind of tale that focuses on a deep, complex exploration of madness, told alternately from three different points of view: that of Amadeus Arkham, founder of the asylum, that of Batman and his other persona, Bruce Wayne, and of course, that of all the madmen locked up at the asylum, including the super villains.  Two, that it is \\"Suggested for Mature Readers\\" on the back cover as it's probably one of the most unnecessarily violent and ghastly graphic novels ever published under the Batman title, although, I definitely think - regardless of it being at times a bit too disgusting for my taste - that it's also one of the most original and beautifully illustrated narratives ever created for the genre. The superb artwork is perfect for the story with its surreal, dreamy, and suggestive look, even if, on occasion, it gets a little difficult to follow, especially with certain clashing combinations of colors and typographies. Still, the lavish intricacy of the compositions and the broad range of techniques used by the artist are a spectacular visual feast worth the price of the book alone.  The dual story, told in a nicely interwoven parallel, on one hand, explores Arkham's past and how his reasons for founding the asylum derived from decisions he made during the most crucial points of his life, and on the other, focuses on Batman's present day mission to go inside the asylum and, while confronting the insecurities about his own sanity, regain control of the facility after it's been taken over by the Joker.  Arkham's story is from beginning to end an emotional journey through the situations and escalating tragedies that can slowly drive a man insane. It's marvelously shrouded in a veil of mystery and superstition, and brilliantly placed in time during the beginning of the 1900's both by the overall mood of the art and the historical details sprinkled here and there, including, among others, having Arkham meet and learn from both Carl Jung and Aleister Crowley.   Batman's story, told from both his point of view and that of the inmates' is, on the other hand, a lot darker, more twisted and sadly less consistent. Our hero's mischaracterization, present throughout the whole story, is obvious from his first line of dialogue, with which he's not only portrayed as a constantly daunted man, but also as one who reacts with shock and disbelief to the inmates' atrocities and maniacal behavior that he's so used to fighting. Contrastingly, the clever analysis of Joker's psychosis is brilliant right to very last page of the book, even in spite of the endless sexually perverted innuendos from him - who even hints at a homosexual relationship between Batman and Robin - that somewhat lessen the impact of the story's emotional momentum.  The story concludes with the most satisfactory ending I've so far encountered in any graphic novel - worthy of a 5-star rating on its own -, an excellent comparison of the contrasts and similarities between Arkham and Batman's sense of duty, the ghosts of their pasts, and the skeletons in each one's closet.   As you'd expect from the title, along with the Joker, a fair amount of villains make an appearance, enriching Arkham Asylum's decadent milieu, among them Two-Face, Mad Hatter, Scarecrow, Killer Croc, Clayface, Prof. Milo, Dr. Destiny, Maxie Zeus, Black Mask, etc. The constant references to April Fools' Day and Alice in Wonderland, the changes introduced to Two-Face's alter ego, Harvey Dent, and the re-imagining of some of the other super villains, are truly delightful as well. But where the most pleasant surprises of the story lie for me are on Batman's iterated questioning of the \\"cures\\" administered to the inmates by the asylum's doctors, and the contemplation of the possibility that madness might not only be a physical illness but that it could also be a contagious disease.  Despite the fact that this book could use some degree of fine-tuning in a few places and a little less unwarranted violence in others, overall it holds its own and delivers a fantastic story about how different people perceive the world around them when they see it through their own demented biases.  This volume is definitely a must-have addition to any serious Batman collection.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2005-07-07
US	52776043	R32PHMO1JJJBCD	0974575038	148349185	Goodbye Gutenberg: How a Bronx Teacher Defied 500 Years of Tradition and Launched an Astonishing Renaissance (Designer Writers)	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Interesting point of view, bad exposition.	This book presents the author's opinion that conventionally printed books of black and white blocks of type are on the brink of experiencing a revolution in design, and introduces us to the end result of this revolution: \\"designer books.\\" She sustains that richly illustrated, color-enhanced and visually designed texts will completely supplant the traditional ones, in both fiction and non-fiction, and she urges publishers, writers and readers alike to be an active part in the coming changes.  In this, if nothing else, beautifully illustrated book that contains over 800 colorful images, the author explains that the emergence of this revolutionary type of book is not the result of chance, but the natural result of an artistic revolution long expected by readers of all ages. She justifies this claim by presenting an overview of the history of the written text, explaining how the illuminated manuscripts disappeared only after the advent of the movable-type press. She explains that it is the recent advancement in the development of computers, software and printing techniques, which for the first time allow just about anyone to print their own really cheap and fully illustrated volumes, the biggest facilitator of this revolution. She believes that it is a revolution that will not only move books and literacy back into every person's life, but will also become the proven solution to the recent dramatic decline in reading on reader's groups of all ages. She also proposes that the use of different colors, fonts and images in \\"designer books' will work as a learning tool and memory aid, and will make books fit to compete against more engaging mediums like television, multimedia and the Internet.  Although I consider this book a truly delightful visual experience, in which each page is a stunning treat of creativity that highlights the aesthetic qualities of the written word, overall it simply fails on many levels. It doesn't deliver on its claim of becoming the instrument thatwill spark a literary revolution, or on clearly and solidly establishing the reasons behind it.  First, it presents anecdotes of the author's experience as a teacher to absolutely validate her argument that colors and images are learning tools, that they enhance memory and comprehension, that they are needed to make conventionally printed texts more interesting to students who prefer \\"richer\\" mediums like television, multimedia or the Internet. She cites instances in which by using different colors, fonts and images, she created texts that were more appealing to her less than eager literature class, and proposes this methodology to be the solution to the decline in reading. While her sometimes funny and sometimes enjoyable anecdotes clearly illustrate the point she wants to get across, the points themselves lack objectivity. The book doesn't include the results of any methodical research done to determine the causes behind the decline in reading, similar experiments or observations on other classes under a different learning environment, or the mention and testing of other sensory methods (sounds, textures) to encourage or enhance learning. I believe that the author shouldn't label the solution it proposes as absolute after only considering a single circumstance in which it worked and before at least considering the many other solutions available.  Second, she takes us through a historical overview of the development and evolution of writing, the creation of the book since its conception to the present, and the relationship of writing and art through the centuries, citing inventions, discoveries, advances and obstacles. Although the amount of information available for such an ambitious topic could never fully satisfy a single reader, the choice material is again very subjective and aimed at proving the point the author tries to make regardless of the material against it; it lacks depth and more historical references. And although entitled to give her opinion, her feelings invariably keep her from presenting an objective exposition. While the author pays deserved attention to the changes that books underwent after the advent of Gutenberg's movable-type press, from gloriously illustrated manuscripts to black and white blocks of text, she blames Gutenberg for single-handedly destroying the illuminated document. She seemingly blinds herself to both the many circumstances surrounding the widespread acceptance of his type of book other than its cost, and the many benefits derived from its invention, including the preservation of knowledge, the accessibility of books to a wider audience, the time taken to make copies, etc.  Third, she cites years of research that conclude with the affirmation that hers is the only book of its kind to conjugate text and images, except for comics, graphic novels, and recipe and children's books. Or that there are no other books that emphasize the importance between the relationship of writing and art. I can't help but wonder just what kind of research the author did. A quick search through Amazon's book catalogue offers dozens of titles on the art of illumination, the use of graphics in book design for various topics, and learning and sensory aids on books. Another search will render thousands of fully illustrated fiction and non-fiction books currently in print and comparable to Goodbye Gutenberg. The list includes guides and manuals on various topics (For Dummies series), encyclopedias (DK's Visual Dictionaries, Encyclopedias and Illustrated Guides), history books (Harry N. Abrams series), poetry books (Blake, Buck, Shakespeare, Yeats), and even fiction books (Wilde's Plays and Short Stories, Conan Doyle's Sherlock Holmes Adventures, Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit and Lewis' Narnia), not to mention hundreds of magazines.  Fourth, the author doesn't seem to give as much importance to what is being said as she does to the graphical way in which the text is presented, something that isevident in her own writing. She not only repeats herself over and over after the first couple of chapters, but she seems to do it to get in more pages for the graphics, something that a good editor, which the book lacks, would have never allowed. Something that unnecessarily lengthens a book, occupies more shelf space in the bookcase, and makes the reader spend more time with a single book only to hear the same things repeated. For me images are not a necessity to either the trained reader or the capable writer, especially in fiction. No matter the genre or topic they should be used to enhance, illustrate or explain the text and not the other way around, unless of course, your subject is the art presented, and even then the writing that accompanies it should be no less than excellent. Good writing, especially in fiction, moves the imagination in a way that the words themselves become the images that accompany the story, giving each reader the opportunity to interpret the author's ideas. An opportunity that I wouldn't trade for a million images, unless they were the author's own or the ones commissioned by him or her according to his or her vision.  Fifth and last, the fact that the book tells us repeatedly how wonderful the idea it presents is, makes the author's passion for the written word come off as conceit and self-importance, and the colloquial and personal tone of her prose as condescending and brash.  If nothing else, this book is a source of some visual inspiration that could have enormously benefited of a little more objectivity, research, and balanced exposition on the benefits of images, colors and fonts to different types of books and subjects. It would have done better by presenting itself not as the absolute solution and ultimate paths that the books of the future will follow, but as one of many, more applicable to certain topics and subjects than to others.  If you are looking for a visually engaging book that contains a bit of the history of writingand some funny, engaging anecdotes of a teacher's struggle to take literature to the heart of some inner city kids, read this book. If you are looking for an objective and seriously researched book about how visual aids can help reading and comprehension, or about the future of the printed page, then look elsewhere.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2005-01-03
US	52776043	ROBABYGJKGBPJ	0746003420	367760243	The Greeks (Illustrated World History Series)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	An excellent historical guide for young readers.	This educational, informative and handsomely illustrated book, from the Usborne Illustrated World History series, is an excellent visual reference for young readers.  It offers an in-depth look at Greek civilization, from its first settlers to the Minoan to the Myceneans to the great empires of Alexander and the Ptolemies. Topics such as history, sociology, politics, economy, culture and religion are covered. This book is also packed with colorful pictures, detailed diagrams, realistic drawings, accurate reconstructions, and handy maps to help illustrate the points being explained and give the reader a vivid look into Greek history.  As a bonus, this book has a wonderful appendix that contains:  * A complete map of ancient Greece.  * A summary of the most important Greek myths and legends, complete with detailed explanations.  * A collection of mini biographies of key figures in Greek history.  * A date chart from 40,000 to 146 BC outlining relevant events and significant historical developments that took place both in Greece and elsewhere in the world during this period.  * A glossary that explains Greek and Greek-derived terms used throughout the text.  * A thorough index for quick check-ups and specific consultations.  Although this book was published in 1990, so some of the information in it may no longer be completely accurate, it is still a beautiful, entertaining and complete reference for children, and a fun, effective teaching tool for adults.  Other recommended titles from this series: First Civilizations and The Romans.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-08-30
US	52776043	R4MSZ8DH4LJRH	0836230760	35733693	Pisces	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A fantastically decorated, charming volume.	This pint-sized book about the Pisces birth sign exceptionally covers in a concise, informative and very pleasurable to read style, all the basic information any astrology follower would enjoy having around in a single, beautifully illustrated, compact volume, more than suited to be carried around everywhere.  In merely eighty pages, it offers a fascinating look at many of the qualities and traits of the Pisces personality as studied by astrology and their relationship to almost every aspect of daily life, including:  *The Sign of the Fish  *Character and Personality  *Signs and Symbols  *Health and Fitness  *Home and Family  *Careers and Goals  *Pastimes and Play  *Love among the Signs  As a bonus, it also contains a brief introduction to the history of Astrology.   This is a fun read for everyone.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-08-30
US	52776043	RRDVE9K5WDWSI	0836230728	596023809	Capricorn: The Sign of the Goat	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A fantastically decorated, charming volume.	This pint-sized book about the Capricorn birth sign exceptionally covers in a concise, informative and very pleasurable to read style, all the basic information any astrology follower would enjoy having around in a single, beautifully illustrated, compact volume, more than suited to be carried around everywhere.  In merely eighty pages, it offers a fascinating look at many of the qualities and traits of the Capricorn personality as studied by astrology and their relationship to almost every aspect of daily life, including:  *The Sign of the Goat  *Character and Personality  *Signs and Symbols  *Health and Fitness  *Home and Family  *Careers and Goals  *Pastimes and Play  *Love among the Signs  As a bonus, it also contains a brief introduction to the history of Astrology.   This is a fun read for everyone.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-08-30
US	52776043	ROAMTBHUR6QU7	1560103272	831945529	How to Draw Superman (DC Comics How to Draw Books)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Grab your art supplies, ready, set... go!	This beautifully illustrated, easy to follow, step-by-step, how-to guide is the first book you should buy to learn the basic drawing techniques you need to accurately depict each cartoon character from the Superman universe (in the Bruce Timm/Animated Series style).  The information and instructions contained in this book are wonderfully organized and presented in step-by-step format (from rough sketch to finished drawing), include a list of tools and materials you need to get started and cover topics that include: guidelines on basic figure drawing, head and figure proportions, movements and expressions, comparisons of male and female figure features, and perspective and foreshortening for backgrounds and figures. The book also contains a detailed treatment on how to draw each character, including Superman (and Clark Kent), Lois Lane, Martha and Jonathan Kent, Jor-El and Lara, Lex Luthor, Parasite, Bizarro, Mr. Mxyzptlk, Metallo and Brainiac. As a bonus, the book teaches us how to draw settings and accessories like Metropolis, The Daily Planet, guns, cars and Superman's X-Ray and Heat vision.  This book is a simple, yet excellent resource on how to create your own adventures for the Man of Steel, at the same time that you begin to understand the basic principles of cartooning and animation.   A must buy for kids and adults who want to draw the Superman universe like professional artists in a relatively short time. If you prefer a more general book on how to draw DC Comics super heroes, I recommend buying How to Draw Batman and the DC Comics Super Heroes by Ty Templeton instead, since it contains around 90% of the characters featured in this book, plus a lot of other characters from other DC Comics universes.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-08-30
US	52776043	R62N4VDC763J5	0500050961	163223252	The Seventy Wonders of the Ancient World: The Great Monuments and How They Were Built	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Fascinating look at ancient man's feats of engineering.	This well organized, informative and concise volume offers a clearly written collection of essays on the complete history of seventy of the world's most spectacular engineering and construction achievements of the past, from the fifth millennium B. C. to the sixteenth century A. D., including the traditional list of the seven wonders of the ancient world.  Each monument is carefully detailed in a short entry of two to four pages long that states the facts that have been uncovered by the most recent and updated archaeological findings. Basic facts like who built it, where, when and why are covered, and additional information is also provided like its basic statistics, the politics associated with its construction, and other fascinating data. Moreover, for quick check-ups, each wonder is accurately placed in one of the seven categories into which the book is divided: The Seven Wonders; Tombs & Cemeteries; Temples & Shrines; Palaces, Baths & Arenas; Fortifications; Harbours, Hydraulics & Roads; and Colossal Statues & Monoliths.  This reference is handsomely presented in a sturdy binding, printed in top-quality paper, and beautifully illustrated with over 300 spectacular photos, explanatory diagrams, detailed reconstructions and historical drawings.  Featured among the showcased selection are The Easter Island Statues, the cities of Mycenae and Tiryns, The Colosseum of Rome, The Pyramid of the Sun at Teotihuacan, and The Pharos of Alexandria. The rest of the masterpieces included are equal testimony of humanity's unending skill to create impressive and beautiful structures without the benefit of modern technology.  As a bonus, the book includes a preface that explains the criteria used to pick the selected monuments, and an introduction that gives us an overview of the wonders still standing, their historical meaning, and the ancient technology involved in their construction. Also included are: a map, pinpointing the location of each structure, a comprehensive bibliography, especially useful for further research, and a thorough index for specific consultations.  This is a fact-filled compendium that readers of all ages will undoubtedly refer to again and again.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-08-30
US	52776043	R24G7NZKGZFGJB	0836230779	429625854	Sagittarius: The Sign of the Archer: November 23-December 21	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A fantastically decorated, charming volume.	This pint-sized book about the Sagittarius birth sign exceptionally covers in a concise, informative and very pleasurable to read style, all the basic information any astrology follower would enjoy having around in a single, beautifully illustrated, compact volume, more than suited to be carried around everywhere.  In merely eighty pages, it offers a fascinating look at many of the qualities and traits of the Sagittarius personality as studied by astrology and their relationship to almost every aspect of daily life, including:  *The Sign of the Archer  *Character and Personality  *Signs and Symbols  *Health and Fitness  *Home and Family  *Careers and Goals  *Pastimes and Play  *Love among the Signs  As a bonus, it also contains a brief introduction to the history of Astrology.   This is a fun read for everyone.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-08-30
US	52776043	R2QPJFLM6Z6V4H	0862722055	416531988	See Inside a Castle	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Excellent visual overview of medieval castle life.	This short, beautifully illustrated book, part of the \\"See Inside\\" series aimed at young readers, is a good, easy to understand reference on the everyday life of people in and around a medieval castle.<br />Through colorful, thoughtfully detailed drawings, it describes the layout, structure and evolution of various castle designs, using cross-sections and cutaways to allow the reader to look right inside of them. Simple, clear diagrams explain the reasoning behind some of their better-known features and how their building tools and defensive technology functioned, and accurate reconstructions show how their inhabitants worked and lived.<br />As a bonus, this volume includes:<br />* A section on famous medieval castles, complete with color photos.<br />* A chronological chart of important European and Middle Eastern events from around 400 to 1700 BC.<br />* A glossary of common terms used throughout the book.<br />* A thorough index for quick check-ups and specific consultations.<br />Although the revised edition of this book came out in 1986, and as it stands it's not inaccurate at all, a few facts and some information could use some updating and expanding with knowledge gathered from ongoing historical research and discoveries of more recent archaeological digs.<br />Overall this book is still a generally good teaching tool for adults and a fun reference for kids who want to be transported to another time in the evolution of our civilization.<br />Other titles in the series include an Ancient Greek Town, a Roman Town, an Ancient Chinese Town, an Egyptian Town and a Galleon.<br />--Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-08-30
US	52776043	R7SMGWL43IJD9	0836230841	516923853	Cancer the Sign of the Crab	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A fantastically decorated, charming volume.	This pint-sized book about the Cancer birth sign exceptionally covers in a concise, informative and very pleasurable to read style, all the basic information any astrology follower would enjoy having around in a single, beautifully illustrated, compact volume, more than suited to be carried around everywhere.  In merely eighty pages, it offers a fascinating look at many of the qualities and traits of the Cancer personality as studied by astrology and their relationship to almost every aspect of daily life, including:  *The Sign of the Crab  *Character and Personality  *Signs and Symbols  *Health and Fitness  *Home and Family  *Careers and Goals  *Pastimes and Play  *Love among the Signs  As a bonus, it also contains a brief introduction to the history of Astrology.   This is a fun read for everyone.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-08-30
US	52776043	R3TUV3CKLEHTWK	0836230752	293425666	Libra: The Sign of the Scales, September 24-October 23 (The Little Birth Sign Library)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A fantastically decorated, charming volume.	This pint-sized book about the Libra birth sign exceptionally covers in a concise, informative and very pleasurable to read style, all the basic information any astrology follower would enjoy having around in a single, beautifully illustrated, compact volume, more than suited to be carried around everywhere.  In merely eighty pages, it offers a fascinating look at many of the qualities and traits of the Libra personality as studied by astrology and their relationship to almost every aspect of daily life, including:  *The Sign of the Scales  *Character and Personality  *Signs and Symbols  *Health and Fitness  *Home and Family  *Careers and Goals  *Pastimes and Play  *Love among the Signs  As a bonus, it also contains a brief introduction to the history of Astrology.   This is a fun read for everyone.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-08-30
US	52776043	RHF0WKOZ7TTYO	0500510504	729840444	The Seventy Great Mysteries of the Ancient World: Unlocking the Secrets of Past Civilizations	Books	4	32	33	N	N	Fascinating look at the mysteries of humanity's past.	This well organized, informative and concise volume offers a clearly written collection of essays on seventy of man's most famous historical enigmas and archaeological mysteries, from humanity's origin to the disappearance of mighty empires.  Each controversy is carefully detailed in a short entry of two to five pages long that explains all that is presently known about each topic drawing on the latest discoveries made through modern science and archaeological research. Each puzzling subject is presented in the manner of a question, followed by basic information that includes dates, facts, stories, scientific research, current level of knowledge, and theories to possible solutions. Moreover, for quick check-ups, each enigma is accurately placed in one of the six categories into which the book is divided: Myths & Legends; Mysteries of the Stone Age; Ancient Civilizations; Tombs & Lost Treasures; Ancient & Undeciphered Scripts; and The Fall of Civilizations.  This reference is handsomely presented in a sturdy binding, printed in top-quality paper, and beautifully illustrated with over 400 spectacular photos, explanatory diagrams and detailed historical drawings.  Featured among the showcased selection are King Arthur and the Holy Grail, Stonehenge, the Riddle of the Sphinx, the Dead Sea Scrolls, the Etruscan Alphabet, the Trojan War, and the Collapse of the Maya. The rest of the subjects included are equal examples of real controversies, unsolved mysteries and baffling enigmas of humanity's past. No paranormal or supernatural phenomena are presented or considered as possible theories to the solution of any controversy.  As a bonus, the book includes a preface that explains the criteria used to pick the selected topics, and an introduction that gives us an overview of how science and research shed light into finding satisfactory answers to these historical questions. Also included are a comprehensive bibliography and list of illustrations, especially useful for furtherresearch, and a thorough index for specific consultations.  This is a fact-filled compendium that readers of all ages will undoubtedly refer to again and again.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-08-30
US	52776043	R2J5E5KSE4EDV	0836230736	694764767	Gemini: The Sign of the Twins (The Little Birth Sign Library)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A fantastically decorated, charming volume.	This pint-sized book about the Gemini birth sign exceptionally covers in a concise, informative and very pleasurable to read style, all the basic information any astrology follower would enjoy having around in a single, beautifully illustrated, compact volume, more than suited to be carried around everywhere.  In merely eighty pages, it offers a fascinating look at many of the qualities and traits of the Gemini personality as studied by astrology and their relationship to almost every aspect of daily life, including:  *The Sign of the Twins  *Character and Personality  *Signs and Symbols  *Health and Fitness  *Home and Family  *Careers and Goals  *Pastimes and Play  *Love among the Signs  As a bonus, it also contains a brief introduction to the history of Astrology.   This is a fun read for everyone.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-08-30
US	52776043	R3L5OEAOOOZY1Q	0746003404	317460841	The Romans: Usborne Illustrated World History	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An excellent historical guide for young readers.	This educational, informative and handsomely illustrated book, from the Usborne Illustrated World History series, is an excellent visual reference for young readers.  It offers an in-depth look at Roman civilization, from the founding of the city of Rome to the decline and fall of the empire to the birth and evolution of Constantinople and the city of Byzantium. Topics such as history, sociology, politics, economy, culture and religion are covered. This book is also packed with colorful pictures, detailed diagrams, realistic drawings, accurate reconstructions, and handy maps to help illustrate the points being explained and give the reader a vivid look into Roman history.  As a bonus, this book has a wonderful appendix that contains:  * A glossary that explains Latin and Latin-derived terms used throughout the text.   * A collection of mini biographies of key figures in Roman history.  * A date chart from around 2,000 BC to 1453 AD outlining relevant events and significant historical developments that took place both in the Roman world and elsewhere during this period.  * A summary of the most important ways in which we were influenced by the Romans in building techniques, travel and communications, architecture, the arts, language, law, government, literature and ideas.   * A thorough index for quick check-ups and specific consultations.  Although this book was published in 1990, so some of the information in it may no longer be completely accurate, it is still a beautiful, entertaining and complete reference for children, and a fun, effective teaching tool for adults.  Other recommended titles from this series: First Civilizations and The Greeks.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-08-30
US	52776043	R1RAPDHB4ZNU7L	1560104791	12602103	How to Draw Batman and the Dc Comics Super Heroes	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The definitive book on drawing DC super heroes.	This beautifully illustrated, easy to follow, step-by-step, how-to guide is the most useful and complete book on the basic drawing techniques you need to accurately depict the cartoon characters of the DC universe (in the Bruce Timm/Animated Series style) available on the market today.  The information and instructions contained in this book are wonderfully organized and presented in step-by-step format (from rough sketch to finished drawing), include a list of tools and materials you need to get started and cover topics that include: guidelines on basic figure drawing, head and figure proportions, movements and expressions, comparisons of male and female figure features, and perspective and foreshortening for backgrounds and figures. The book also contains a detailed treatment on how to draw DC heroes and villains, from the well-known (Batman, Superman, Flash, Green Lantern, Wonder Woman, Aquaman, Martian Manhunter, the Joker, Poison Ivy, Lex Luthor, etc.) to the less-known (Starman, Huntress, Black Canary, the Gentleman Ghost, etc.) As a bonus, the book teaches us how to draw places like Gotham City, Metropolis and Themystira.  This book is a simple, excellent and thorough resource for creating your own DC Comics super hero adventures, at the same time that you begin to understand the basic principles of cartooning and animation. This is a mandatory book for the shelf of kids and adults who want to draw the world of DC Comics like professional artists in a relatively short time.  A note of caution: this book not only includes everything contained in two previous Ty Templeton books: How to Draw Batman and How to Draw Superman, but also a lot more.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-08-30
US	52776043	R6HW7UJW34OV3	0836230701	283399152	The Aries: The Little Birth Sign Library	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A fantastically decorated, charming volume.	This pint-sized book about the Aries birth sign exceptionally covers in a concise, informative and very pleasurable to read style, all the basic information any astrology follower would enjoy having around in a single, beautifully illustrated, compact volume, more than suited to be carried around everywhere.  In merely eighty pages, it offers a fascinating look at many of the qualities and traits of the Aries personality as studied by astrology and their relationship to almost every aspect of daily life, including:  *The Sign of the Ram  *Character and Personality  *Signs and Symbols  *Health and Fitness  *Home and Family  *Careers and Goals  *Pastimes and Play  *Love among the Signs  As a bonus, it also contains a brief introduction to the history of Astrology.   This is a fun read for everyone.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-08-30
US	52776043	R1ROR7I9O20970	0836230698	28525795	Aquarius	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A fantastically decorated, charming volume.	This pint-sized book about the Aquarius birth sign exceptionally covers in a concise, informative and very pleasurable to read style, all the basic information any astrology follower would enjoy having around in a single, beautifully illustrated, compact volume, more than suited to be carried around everywhere.  In merely eighty pages, it offers a fascinating look at many of the qualities and traits of the Aquarius personality as studied by astrology and their relationship to almost every aspect of daily life, including:  *The Sign of the Water Bearer  *Character and Personality  *Signs and Symbols  *Health and Fitness  *Home and Family  *Careers and Goals  *Pastimes and Play  *Love among the Signs  As a bonus, it also contains a brief introduction to the history of Astrology.   This is a fun read for everyone.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-08-30
US	52776043	R3DDQ8BIVUF1E0	0836230744	652775373	Leo	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A fantastically decorated, charming volume.	This pint-sized book about the Leo birth sign exceptionally covers in a concise, informative and very pleasurable to read style, all the basic information any astrology follower would enjoy having around in a single, beautifully illustrated, compact volume, more than suited to be carried around everywhere.  In merely eighty pages, it offers a fascinating look at many of the qualities and traits of the Leo personality as studied by astrology and their relationship to almost every aspect of daily life, including:  *The Sign of the Lion  *Character and Personality  *Signs and Symbols  *Health and Fitness  *Home and Family  *Careers and Goals  *Pastimes and Play  *Love among the Signs  As a bonus, it also contains a brief introduction to the history of Astrology.   This is a fun read for everyone.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-08-30
US	52776043	RJ83OGD3K0KPD	0500510474	862241231	The Seventy Wonders of the Modern World: 1500 Years of Extraordinary Feats of Engineering and Construction	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A fascinating look at man's engineering accomplishments.	This well organized, informative and concise volume offers a clearly written collection of essays on the complete history of seventy of the world's greatest engineering and construction achievements from the year 1500 A. D. to the present.  Each structure is carefully detailed in a well-researched, short entry of two to four pages long. Basic facts like who built it, where, when and why are covered, and additional information is also provided like its basic statistics, the politics associated with its construction, accounts of the project's development and other fascinating data. Moreover, for quick check-ups, each wonder is accurately placed in one of the seven categories into which the book is divided: Churches, Mosques, Temples & Shrines; Palaces & Castles; Public & State Buildings; Towers & Skyscrapers; Bridges, Railways & Tunnels; Canals & Dams; and Colossal Statues.  This reference is handsomely presented in a sturdy binding, printed in top-quality paper, and beautifully illustrated with over 350 spectacular photos, explanatory diagrams, magnificent reconstructions and historical drawings.  Featured among the showcased selection are The Statue of Liberty, The Panama Canal, The Eiffel Tower, The Taj Mahal, and The Forbidden City, and the rest of the masterpieces included are equal testimony of man's unending imagination and its application beyond mere aesthetic power, structural virtuosity or plain utility.  As a bonus, the book includes an introduction that explains the criteria used to pick the selected structures. A comprehensive bibliography especially useful for further research and a thorough index, for specific consultations, are also included.  This is a fact-filled compendium that readers of all ages will undoubtedly refer to again and again.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-08-30
US	52776043	R1G4SQBF5W6JZ9	0399507914	2987946	Drawing the Head and Figure: A How-To Handbook That Makes Drawing Easy	Books	5	70	71	N	N	The complete one-book reference on drawing head and figure.	This book is a clearly written, easy to follow, detailed and concise handbook to drawing the head and figure by using several different approaches and understanding the anatomy of the human body from the outside without going deeper into its musculature or skeletal structure. This fully illustrated reference contains over 900 diagrams and illustrations and is structured into fourteen carefully organized sections that pack into one book, without leaving anything out, all the information that usually takes other authors 2 or 3 volumes.   The author covers general topics like figure and head construction, basic lines of the figure, head patterns, angles and comparisons, movements, proportions and simplified figures. He also goes into specific topics like facial features, hair, torso, neck and shoulders, arms, hands, legs, and feet. As an added bonus he includes not so common topics such as youth and age, and clothing, but as a warning, note that most fashion elements like clothing, hairstyles and makeup are from the 1960's since this volume is a reprint of a book originally published in 1963.  By studying this book as if it were a textbook on a course, doing all the exercises and reviewing each section afterwards, I have noticeably improved my drawings in a very short time.  If you are a beginner, this is the first book you should buy to understand the fundamentals of head and figure drawing before going into deeper, more complicated and not so thorough figure drawing books. If you are a seasoned or professional artist, get this book to discover new principles and techniques with which to experiment. This book is a must for any artist's bookshelf.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-08-30
US	52776043	R23PPVF4KOUMCY	0836230787	870066942	Scorpio - The Little Birth Sign Library	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A fantastically decorated, charming volume.	This pint-sized book about the Scorpio birth sign exceptionally covers in a concise, informative and very pleasurable to read style, all the basic information any astrology follower would enjoy having around in a single, beautifully illustrated, compact volume, more than suited to be carried around everywhere.  In merely eighty pages, it offers a fascinating look at many of the qualities and traits of the Scorpio personality as studied by astrology and their relationship to almost every aspect of daily life, including:  *The Sign of the Scorpion  *Character and Personality  *Signs and Symbols  *Health and Fitness  *Home and Family  *Careers and Goals  *Pastimes and Play  *Love among the Signs  As a bonus, it also contains a brief introduction to the history of Astrology.   This is a fun read for everyone.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-08-30
US	52776043	R3HD4VN26UDQCF	0836230795	573824920	Taurus (Little Books)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A fantastically decorated, charming volume.	This pint-sized book about the Taurus birth sign exceptionally covers in a concise, informative and very pleasurable to read style, all the basic information any astrology follower would enjoy having around in a single, beautifully illustrated, compact volume, more than suited to be carried around everywhere.  In merely eighty pages, it offers a fascinating look at many of the qualities and traits of the Taurus personality as studied by astrology and their relationship to almost every aspect of daily life, including:  *The Sign of the Bull  *Character and Personality  *Signs and Symbols  *Health and Fitness  *Home and Family  *Careers and Goals  *Pastimes and Play  *Love among the Signs  As a bonus, it also contains a brief introduction to the history of Astrology.   This is a fun read for everyone.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-08-30
US	52776043	R2L492CUGTKVNU	0836230809	761066174	Virgo (Little Books)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A fantastically decorated, charming volume.	This pint-sized book about the Virgo birth sign exceptionally covers in a concise, informative and very pleasurable to read style, all the basic information any astrology follower would enjoy having around in a single, beautifully illustrated, compact volume, more than suited to be carried around everywhere.<br />In merely eighty pages, it offers a fascinating look at many of the qualities and traits of the Virgo personality as studied by astrology and their relationship to almost every aspect of daily life, including:<br />*The Sign of the Virgin<br />*Character and Personality<br />*Signs and Symbols<br />*Health and Fitness<br />*Home and Family<br />*Careers and Goals<br />*Pastimes and Play<br />*Love among the Signs<br />As a bonus, it also contains a brief introduction to the history of Astrology.<br />This is a fun read for everyone.<br />--Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-08-30
US	52776043	R2JDUJAXI92YXE	0764554328	777171341	Mythology For Dummies	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	Great introduction to world mythology.	Written in the friendly Dummies style, illustrated with many pictures, drawings, maps, charts, humorous icon guides and even hilarious cartoons, this book presents the best collection of explained myths, legends, traditions and folktales available today in a single volume.<br />Through simple, yet detailed, and clear explanations, this reference covers in less than 350 pages the gods, divinities, heroes, monsters and places that are part of our world's vast collection of mythologies. Organized according to their provenance, the selection discussed includes the Greek, Roman, Northern European, Mesopotamian, Hebrew, Egyptian, Indian, Chinese, Japanese, Latin American and Northern American Indian mythologies. It also explores the everyday connection between them and the societies that created them, and their relevance in the religion, literature, art, politics and even the social organization of the civilizations from which they came. As a bonus, the book contains two sections, Ten Mythological Monsters and Ten Mythological Places, which give detailed and engrossing descriptions of the most fabulous monsters and fantastic places that are a direct product of mythology. Since this book is fully cross-referenced comparisons between mythologies are very easy to make, and its very thorough index is great for quick check-ups and specific consultations.<br />Although this book could have been edited better, since it has a more than just a few typographical errors and repeated paragraphs, it is a very well researched, informative and entertaining reference, even presented with a dash of humor, that makes learning about world mythologies fun.<br />The information and the literary and historical references in this book are well worth its price, and make it the most entertaining place to start your mythological studies and an extraordinary resource to launch you into a deeper study of mythology.<br />--Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-30
US	52776043	R1RIHL55SXYVAJ	076455137X	542827322	Sewing For Dummies	Books	4	337	341	N	N	Learn how to sew the easy way.	Knowing nothing at all about sewing, when I first set out to master the craft I went straight to the big-name references (Singer books and the like) only to find either huge guides overloaded with incomprehensible technical information and impractical advice, or beautifully illustrated books with little or no instructions. I was about to give up the teach-yourself-idea and enroll in some very expensive classes when I chanced upon this book. Amazingly by the time it took me to finish studying it (less than a month) I had not only learned to sew, but had also completed several Halloween costumes that earned the praise and admiration of friends and family.<br />Written in the friendly Dummies style, illustrated with over 200 pictures, drawings, step-by-step diagrams, humorous icon guides and even hilarious cartoons, this book covers all the fundamentals of sewing from general information for beginners to tips and tricks for experienced sewers.<br />Through simple, yet detailed, fully cross-referenced, clearly written explanations in plain English, and using proper, well-defined terminology, this reference contains all the basics. It includes assembling a sewing kit; selecting fabrics and threads; understanding and using patterns; working with hems, sleeves, pockets, collars, and closures; sewing for the home; and making repairs and alterations. It also offers some projects to test your acquired knowledge and progress, an appendix listing wonderful sewing resources in the US and on the Web, and a very thorough index for quick check-ups and specific consultations.<br />Although the author could have been a bit more generous with the step-by-step diagrams, which are barely enough to get you through the instructions, and the projects could have been a bit more attractive, even if that meant sacrificing some of their simplicity, this fun to read, informative guide is still in my mind the best how-to reference available on the fundamentals of sewing, especially for those with no prior experience. The excellent instruction and practical tools and advice presented in this volume are well worth the price.<br />Also recommended: The Complete Book of Sewing: A Practical Step-By-Step Guide to Every Technique by Chris Jefferys.<br />--Reviewed by M. E. Volmarxperience. The excellent instruction and practical tools and advice presented in this volume are well worth the price.   Also recommended: The Complete Book of Sewing: A Practical Step-By-Step Guide to Every Technique by Chris Jefferys.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-29
US	52776043	RKIFMTAIKHPNV	0930289943	531687427	Batman: Tales of the Demon	Books	4	58	59	N	Y	A compilation of all the original Ra's al Ghul stories.	This book is a beautiful, complete reprint of the original 1970's stories that shaped Ra's al Ghul and Batman's relationship.  It includes issues #232, 235, 240, 242, 243 and 244 of Batman Comics, Detective Comics #411, 485, 489 and 490, and DC Special Series Volume 2 #15.  Since they are collected in a single volume in the same format that they were originally printed and released (from non-sequential issues), when reading from cover to cover there are many gaps in the story line, some seemingly unresolved endings and a few abrupt beginnings. Remember, Ra's al Ghul's case was one Batman kept open between his usual obligations to Gotham.  Also noticeable is the fact that neither Batman nor Ra's al Ghul live up to their present-day personalities in these stories. But, it's fair to keep in mind that Adams and O'Neil's was the first attempt to return the Dark Knight to his dark, gothic origins and break the stride of his 1960's camp characterization. This they cleverly did by matching him against an antagonist that not only respected him and constantly tested his prowess and investigative abilities, but that also wanted to recruit him as his successor, making the Batman doubt his own morality.  This volume's value is mostly archival, collecting every appearance of Ra's al Ghul and containing the sources of other events in the life of the Caped Crusader like his marriage to Talia, Ra's's daughter, the death of the first Batgirl, and the origins of Matches Malone.  As a bonus, it also includes a delightful introduction by Sam Hamm, explaining the villain's creation, and an afterword by Dennis O'Neil, looking back at his involvement with Batman over the years.  Printed in great colors and illustrated in the traditional 1970's style, this is definitely an interesting look at the history of Batman and the first appearances of one of his most memorable nemesis.  Also recommended: Son of the Demon by Jerry Bingham and Mike W. Barr.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-29
US	52776043	R1192G6BF5GCIE	0894716905	857275442	Five-Minute Mysteries: 37 Challenging Cases of Murder and Mayhem for You to Solve	Books	4	19	19	N	N	A non-traditional approach to logic puzzles.	This book contains thirty-seven puzzles aimed at testing your logic, perception and knowledge, and which only take around five minutes to read and solve.  Organized in a numbered format and placed in the first section of the book, the puzzles are presented as a short story of a mystery or an unsolved crime-case, posing, at the end of each, a question or two for the reader to answer. The assortment of mysteries offered includes murder, theft, blackmail and deception, among others; and they are often clever, engrossing, and even funny.  These mysteries will test both your reading and comprehension skills, as well as your problem solving abilities.  The solutions, sequentially arranged in the second section of the book, can usually, and frequently too easily, be arrived at through the clues contained within the mysteries. Only a few exceptions, which rely on what seemed to me as somewhat esoteric facts, not necessarily familiar to every reader, are a bit frustrating. But, since each solution gives both the answers to each mystery and line of reasoning used in figuring them out, some light is shed on those obscure facts.  One thing lacking in this book is an introduction or foreword, which might have given this volume a better overall presentation, the author a way to explain his purpose in putting this book together, and the reader a chance to get to know a little more about the author.  Overall, this book is a good and entertaining way to get launched into the world of the games of logic.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-28
US	52776043	RCOANRFBXXW9P	0300088094	881321365	Libraries in the Ancient World	Books	5	21	23	N	Y	In search of the roots of modern libraries.	In this amazingly complete 150-page volume, renowned author Lionel Casson, takes us on a wonderful journey of discovery of the role of libraries in the ancient world, from their origins in the Near East in 3000 BC through their evolution until the fall of Roman Byzantium in 1453 AD.  Written in a lively prose, this well-researched, fact-filled book explains when, where, why, and how the forerunners of today's modern libraries were created and developed, treating in detail topics such as:  *How did they acquire their materials?  *How were they physically organized?   *Which, if any, system of cataloguing they used?  *Who had access to their holdings?  *How they solved problems like theft and damage of their collections?  *What was their connection with the rise and fall of education?   The author also presents a concise account of the history of books from clay tablet to papyrus roll to parchment codex to our modern day volumes. He shares fascinating insights into the development of writing and the evolution of writing technology, including:   *What was the purpose of writing?   *Which topics were more commonly written about?  *Which materials were used and why?   *Who did the writing?  The best part of this book is the entertaining and charming way in which the author illustrates his exposition. By employing captivating anecdotes from sources contemporary to the facts, literary sources that have survived to this day, and archaeological finds combined with modern technology that make possible the reconstruction of ancient library buildings, he makes what would otherwise be a very boring topic feel like a true adventure.  As a bonus, the book also explains where many modern words related to libraries and books come from, and includes many drawings and pictures, which perfectly illustrate the points being made, and a thorough bibliography that is an excellent starting point for further exploration.   If you are at all interested in the history of writing, books, and libraries this pleasurable and compact volume is definitely a must-read.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-28
US	52776043	R1Y8UKT3WBCUZ7	0345440749	972042133	Galactic Phrase Book & Travel Guide: Beeps, Bleats, Boskas, and Other Common Intergalactic Verbiage (Star Wars)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Excellent addition to the library of any Star Wars fan.	This invaluable resource is a necessary guide on the basics of effective communication for anyone planning to travel through the Star Wars universe.  Written in an easy-to-read, humorous style and divided into eleven chapters, part one of this volume covers many commonly used phrases and terms in languages that range from Huttese to Bocce to Droidspeak. It also offers essential cultural advice and protocol rules that you will need to familiarize yourself with in order to increase your chances of survival as you come across numerous different situations in your voyage. All the phrases presented are printed out phonetically, so no bothersome pronunciation guidelines are given or needed.  Part two, \\"Behind the Sounds,\\" is an engrossing, well written, 43-page account, complete with behind-the-scenes photos, of the author's journey of inspiration and creation of the sound effects and languages of the original trilogy films. Included in his story are fascinating technical details mixed with often hilarious anecdotes such as having spent a whole day recording bear sounds to be used when putting together Chewbacca's speech, and mixing and re-mixing mechanically and electronically generated beeps, chirps and bleeps to give R2-D2 an \\"emotional\\" voice.  Printed in an attractive pocket-sized format, this book is thoroughly illustrated in the best Star Wars style with laugh-out-loud drawings by Sergio Aragones of MAD Magazine fame.  As a bonus, an appendix with selected scenes from A New Hope and Return of the Jedi is included to help you practice your alien speech.  Although this book doesn't contain any information on the Star Wars universe subsequent to The Phantom Menace, it is an entertaining, fun and enjoyable way to explore the societies, their languages and activities, of the galaxy far, far away. As the Ewoks would say, this book is \\"yun yum di goot\\" (very good).  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-23
US	52776043	R3CJHZ1WHQAMIV	0471223832	553580692	The Grouchy Grammarian: A How-Not-To Guide to the 47 Most Common Mistakes in English Made by Journalists, Broadcasters, and Others Who Should Know Better	Books	5	21	23	N	N	A passionate guide on how-not-to write.	In \\"The Grouchy Grammarian,\\" historian and long-time editor Thomas Parrish offers an easy-to-read, informational, entertaining and blithesome reference filled with advice on how to avoid 47 of the most common mistakes in English grammar.   Each topic is covered in a short chapter with a handy summary at the end for quick check-ups, and each is humorously presented through the point of view of the author's alter ego, The Grouch, a clever, witty, and very opinionated fictional curmudgeon who is a self-proclaimed guardian of grammar and calls errors \\"infelicities to be corrected.\\"   Not only will The Grouch teach you the rules of grammar, usage and good writing, reinforcing his point by ruthlessly citing real-life examples of grammatical gaffes, careless errors, and basic mistakes taken from the blunders of some of today's best-known newspapers, magazines, and TV broadcasts, he will also make your learning experience enjoyable by having you laugh, chuckle or at least smile at his passionate remarks and his quixotic personality.  As a bonus, for those who wish to go deeper into the subject, the book includes a vast bibliography, and a thorough index for quick consultations.  Overall, this is an excellent resource that combines narrative and reference to help you learn or review the elements of precise writing that are most often forgotten, also throwing in for good measure some general and common sense advice on writing.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-22
US	52776043	RI0AH2M5EHM0H	0385490623	181024150	What are the Seven Wonders of the World?: And 100 Other Great Cultural Lists--Fully Explicated	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Fun overview of significant cultural and historical lists.	This informative, fascinating and entertaining volume presents, in a question-and-answer format, a compendium of 101 easy-to-memorize lists from the fields of history, mythology, religion, literature, art, music, mathematics and science, which are considered to be of great significance for our culture.  Each question is well-organized according to the number of items in its answer, which can vary from three (Who where the 3 Magi, and what gifts did they bring?) to twenty-four (What are the 24 letter of the ancient Greek alphabet?).  Each precise answer, instead of giving a mere list, is accompanied by an engrossing essay that places the list in its cultural and historical context and details some well-researched facts about it that aid our understanding of its meaning.  As a bonus, for those interested in doing further research in a specific topic, the book offers a list of suggested reading, which includes books as well as Web site addresses. A very thorough index is also offered for those interested in looking for a particular subject.  Overall, this is a practical, charming and pleasurable reference to either consult or flip through, recommended for readers of all ages eager to explore our culture's most captivating lists, series and hierarchies.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-22
US	52776043	R3VUS7F2RWQGXZ	0789204908	590200240	Treasures of the Prado (Tiny Folio)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Excellent primer on the treasures of the museum.	Housing a majestic and rich collection of more than 8,600 paintings, 700 sculptures, 5,000 drawings, 2,000 engravings and 3,000 other objects of art, no book, no matter its size, can ever come close to actually visiting Spain's Museo del Prado itself. In that regard, this book is no different.  Where this comprehensive book, written by the museum's director, excels other visual guides of its kind is in both the assortment of the works it presents and in its easy-to-browse organization.   Printed in high-quality plates on semi-glossy paper, and bound in a sturdy, pocket-sized format, this little volume superbly reproduces nearly 270 of the museum's most renowned masterpieces. For each item, its author, name, date of creation, materials and dimensions is indicated, and all the pieces are arranged into one of six distinct sections:  *Spanish Painting, Sculpture and Drawing  *Flemish and Dutch Painting  *Italian Painting  *French, German and English Painting  *Tesoro del Delfín and Decorative Arts  *Sculptures  As a bonus, a brief look at the museum's history is offered in the Preface and an introduction is given at the beginning of each section on the history of items they include. For fast check-ups, an Index of Illustrations is provided at the back.   For those who have already visited the museum this book is a first-class visual reminder of what you have seen, and for those who have never been to it, it gives a tantalizing glimpse of this vast and remarkable treasure.  Enjoy!  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-21
US	52776043	R11LNEV2GRRFJR	0195159055	446021179	Weird and Wonderful Words	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Meet the colorful and strange side of English.	This informative, entertaining and amusing reference explains the meaning of hundreds of the most bizarre, astonishing and interesting words that, although technically a part of the English lexicon, have been laid aside from our everyday conversations and are now forgotten and waiting to be found.  Organized alphabetically in a dictionary format, each entry, written in a conversational style, provides a clear definition of a specific word. It often includes the word's origin, and sometimes it's accompanied by a humorous drawing that serves to illustrate both the word's meaning and its usage.  The book also contains a few particular and very funny sections that deal with groups of related words: anatomical terms, names of illnesses, words that begin with the letter \\"x,\\" and words that end in \\"logy,\\" among others.  Another hilarious section is \\"How to Create Your Own Weird and Wonderful Words,\\" intended as a practical guide to help you coin your own unusual vocabulary by using Greek and Latin roots and loose linguistic rules to insure the most legitimate sounding spellings and pronunciation.  As a bonus, especially for those of us interested in doing some further reading, the author also supplies a list of web sites that feature the history and curiosities of the English language, and a list of Oxford dictionaries and reference books.  The only thing missing from this volume is a pronunciation guide, otherwise it is the perfect way to discover, by either direct consultation or casual browsing, the unusual words like ascesis, passiuncle and illywhacker, that decorate our language.  This book is a must-buy for word enthusiasts or trivia lovers alike.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-18
US	52776043	R1TB620C91IEEI	1565122399	71371519	The Word Detective	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Elementary, my dear readers.	This educational, entertaining and delightful volume provides well-researched answers to interesting questions about the meaning, origin and usage of some of today's most perplexing words and phrases.  Compiled from material taken from the author's newspaper and Internet column by the same name, The Word Detective is an informative, witty, charming and fun reference for word lovers, trivia enthusiasts and armchair etymologists alike.  Organized alphabetically, irreverently written and often whimsically illustrated, each entry untangles the histories and debunks the myths behind words like jeep, sabotage, busboy and gringo, and phrases like \\"cup of joe,\\" \\"armed to the teeth\\" and \\"pickled as an owl\\". You will be thoroughly informed, at the same time that you are smiling, chuckling or laughing with each explanation.  Special sections that explore related groups of words and phrases like euphemisms, metaphors, eponyms and figures of speech, among others, are also included.  A bibliography and a list of web sites devoted to words and language, especially useful to those interested in pursuing the subject further, are also added at the back of the book.  Overall, this book combines the perfect amount of humor and instruction to insure the reader a pleasurable and rewarding experience.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-18
US	52776043	R2GN3HFOKTUKXV	1559722339	436508192	Mrs. Byrne's Dictionary of Unusual, Obscure, and Preposterous Words	Books	5	19	19	N	N	English is a very, very rich language.	This informative, well-researched, very interesting, unique reference presents the meaning of 6000 of the most outlandish, eccentric, and strange legitimate words that are part of our English language. Each word's definition is clearly and fully explained, complete with its pronunciation and sometimes even a reference to its language of origin.  This comprehensive volume is a wonderful resource for trivia enthusiasts and people who just love words, language and slang, and it's perfect for offhanded browsing.   So, if you want to know if you've ever jargogled, marmarized or edulcolated anything, if anyone you know is psittaceous, valgus or a gobemouche, or what a diplasiasmus, a krobylos or lares and penates are, then this is the book for you.  Although most of the words contained in this volume are not fit for use in everyday conversations, this is still a fun way to discover new words with precise, astonishing and even outrageous meanings.  Overall, this book is a delightful, entertaining source of curious words and intriguing terms just waiting to be found.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-18
US	52776043	R1RNEKHESQSSJE	1565543947	693332764	The Name's Familiar  Mr. Leotard, Barbie, and Chef Boyardee	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A story behind every name.	This concise, well-researched and entertaining reference is an engaging and informative way to meet the people behind the origins of some of today's most common words and familiar names.  Written in a clear, conversational and often amusing style, it introduces the reader to more than 600 of the lighthearted, silly, fascinating, tragic or unbelievable stories of those who immortalized the names of Harley-Davidson motorcycles, Rambo, Vick's Vaporub, M&M chocolate candies, Firestone tires, James Bond and Singer sewing machines, among others. The sources of some well-known eponyms (words derived from people's names) like mausoleum, academics and boycott, are also explained.  The book is divided in two sections, \\"The Names\\" and \\"Shorts,\\" according to the length of the treatment given to each word's history, and the entries are presented in alphabetical order, which makes this book perfect for either browsing or consultation.  To add to your knowledge of name origins, I would recommend also buying the author's second volume in the series, \\"The Name's Familiar II.\\" Both are excellent, interesting and fun resources you will keep referring to again and again.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-17
US	52776043	R3GK3G90QMIPUA	0805061630	188876175	You've Got Ketchup on Your Muumuu: An A--to--Z Guide to English Words from Around the World	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	English, a truly international language.	This illuminating, well-researched and entertaining reference, introduces us to a comprehensive collection of foreign words and phrases that have, over many decades, been adopted, assimilated, and absorbed into our English lexicon.  This book is written in a very clear, informative style, with the author's whimsical, humorous commentaries often adding a pleasurable and often witty touch to his discussion.  The words are arranged alphabetically in a dictionary format, which facilitates browsing or consulting. Each entry includes the word's pronunciation, origin, original meaning, approximate date of introduction into English, and the meaning of its current usage.  If you want to know how, when and where words like smorgasbord, chutzpah and paparazzi, and expressions like femme fatale and persona non grata made it into English, then, this is the book you need. It's a fun historical record of our vocabulary's most celebrated international contributors.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-17
US	52776043	RADP81CGEM167	1565548221	697574411	Name's Familiar II, The	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	More stories behind every name.	This concise, well-researched and entertaining reference is an engaging and informative way to meet the people behind the origins of some of today's most common words and familiar names.  Written in a clear, conversational and often amusing style, it introduces the reader to more than 500 of the lighthearted, silly, fascinating, tragic or unbelievable stories of those who immortalized the names of Jergen's soap, Yale locks, Count Dracula, Fort Lauderdale, MGM pictures, Dell computers, Bose sound systems, Entenmann's cakes, LaCoste apparel, Listerine mouthwash, the Bermuda Triangle and Peter Pan, among others. The sources of some well-known eponyms (words derived from people's names) like algebra, hooligan, mesmerize, bogus, pamphlet and marmalade, as well as famous songs like \\"Barbara Ann\\" and \\"My Sharona,\\" are also explained.  All the entries are presented in alphabetical order, a perfect tool for either browsing or consulting.  This book also improves upon its predecessor by expanding on some of the stories that were just briefly noted in that volume, and by adding a much-needed and deeply appreciated index.  To add to your knowledge of name origins, I would recommend also buying the author's first volume in the series, \\"The Name's Familiar.\\" Both are excellent, interesting and fun resources you will keep referring to again and again.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-17
US	52776043	R1GIQSVFRIXT4K	0517060205	140277797	Dictionary of Cliches	Books	5	68	70	N	Y	You'll be filled to the brim with knowledge.	This informative, well-researched and amusing reference explains the meaning, origin and subsequent usage of over 2000 cliches, sayings and expressions made familiar through their continued, and sometimes exaggerated, use. It's a wonderful resource for writers, researchers and editors, for trivia enthusiasts, and for people who just love words, language and slang.  Each entry in this comprehensive collection is presented in a paragraph-length format, and is written in a clear, concise and humorous style that invites browsing, but is also appropriate for easy consultations, for which an index of cross-references is also included. Here you'll find the well known \\"head over heels,\\" \\"fit as a fiddle\\" and \\"right as rain\\" and also the not so common \\"eager for the fray\\" and \\"Simon pure.\\"  Although not all the cliches ever used are contained in this volume, it is by far the most complete compilation of its kind available on the market today.  Overall, this book is a delightful trip of exploration and discovery into the treasury of our language's most colorful remarks.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-17
US	52776043	R11ED2HFK5WBVF	038076220X	977731727	The Curse of King Tut's Tomb (History Mystery)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A concise, entertaining chronicle of an amazing discovery.	The discovery of Tutankhamen's tomb is probably one of the most famous and significant contributions ever made to the study of Ancient Egyptian religious traditions. But, the unusual events and mysterious deaths of numerous people linked with the opening of the tomb that soon followed, and the growing, widespread belief in a curse guarding the young pharaoh's mummy is now a legend almost as famous as the discovery of the tomb itself.  Drawing his information from a rich selection of sources and carefully piecing it together in as factual and chronologically accurate account as possible, the author takes us in an exciting journey of exploration, adventure and sinister developments. He offers a realistic portrait of the men behind the discovery, a clear picture of the breathtaking treasures of the pharaoh, and an excellent look at the events that sparked the imagination and gave way to the belief in an ancient curse.  As a bonus, the book is illustrated with pictures of Carter's 1922 expedition, includes a very detailed chronology of relevant events, presents a full plan of the tomb, complete with measurements, and gives us an introductory survey of early Egyptian life and culture.  Was there really a curse on the tomb of Tutankhamen? Read the book and decide for yourself.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-15
US	52776043	R211WMDRO6VY1V	0789419777	939960166	101 Essential Tips: Basic Sewing	Books	4	20	21	N	Y	Basic sewing how-to in a nutshell.	This very affordable, essential reference for beginners covers all the basics of sewing in a broad range of topics, without ever turning too technical for the reader. The well-organized, thoroughly indexed and concise information is presented in handy tips, easy-to-remember answers to frequently asked questions, and step-by-step expert advice with detailed explanations that include topics like:  *Tools, threads and fabrics  *Basic stitches  *Working with patterns and seams  *Darts, pin tucks, gathers and pleats  *Waistbands, hems, necklines, collars, sleeves and cuffs  *Fastenings  *Mending  The key information and direct-to-the-point explanations contained in this handbook are accompanied with more than 250 full-color photos and illustrations, which perfectly depict the points being made and make this volume visually enjoyable. And with a binding perfectly suited for constant browsing and repeated check-ups, you are sure to come back to it again and again.   The one thing missing from this volume is a glossary for common terms, but overall, the nuggets of helpful information presented here are a great value for their price. This is a must-buy for beginners who want a simple and easy to follow guide with instructions that can be instantly absorbed.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-15
US	52776043	R35SP58BOBR19W	0810991004	923859097	Gaudi: Visionary Architect (Abrams Discoveries)	Books	5	35	35	N	Y	Excellent primer on the life of a unique genius.	This small, well-organized, and beautifully illustrated book is an unexpectedly thorough and complete reference on the productive life of Antoni Gaudí, from his formation and early works to his crowning achievements and untimely death.  Chronologically organized and succinctly written, but without being a mere biography, this book presents a well-researched portrait of the most overlooked, original, expressive and particular genius of all the Catalan architects of the 1900's. Often citing historical sources and quoting entries from the artist's own contemporaries, the author presents an insightful account of Gaudí's works, his views on art, his research on architectural issues, and his most amazing, creative, and visionary achievements. The book gives us a grand tour of Gaudí's surviving works, from his earliest commissions (the lampposts at Barcelona's Plaza Real) to the most dazzling demonstration of his genius (the Park Güell) and his most daring undertakings (the church of the Sagrada Familia, still unfinished). Sprinkled through the book are also anecdotes and little-known facts about his character and personal life that let his peculiar style, his individuality and fantastic imagination virtually come alive in front of the reader.  For those interested in a deeper treatment of the subject, the choice bibliographic reference titled Further Reading and the List of Illustrations, both located at the back of the book, will be of special value.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-15
US	52776043	R3HSP5EY3YTQOG	0789410753	760019196	101 Essential Tips: Bonsai	Books	4	59	62	N	Y	Bonsai cultivation how-to in a nutshell.	This very affordable, essential reference for beginners covers all the basics of bonsai cultivation in a broad range of topics, without ever turning too technical for the reader. The well-organized, thoroughly indexed and concise information is presented in handy tips, easy-to-remember answers to frequently asked questions, and step-by-step expert advice with detailed explanations that include topics like:  *Starting a bonsai  *Design principles  *Bonsai styles and displays according to the seasons  *Useful tools  *How to create a bonsai step-by-step  *Caring for and propagating bonsai  *Bonsai species and arrangements  The key information and direct-to-the-point explanations contained in this handbook are accompanied with more than 250 full-color photos and illustrations, which perfectly depict the points being made and make this volume visually enjoyable. And with a binding perfectly suited for constant browsing and repeated check-ups, you are sure to come back to it again and again.   The one thing missing from this volume is a glossary for common terms, but overall, the nuggets of helpful information presented here are a great value for their price. This is a must-buy for beginners and would-be bonsai hobbyists who want a simple and easy to follow guide with instructions that can be instantly absorbed.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-15
US	52776043	R2RFUKJ31RRL8K	078942777X	903019902	Basic Gardening (101 Essential Tips)	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	Gardening how-to in a nutshell.	This very affordable, essential reference for beginners covers all the basics of gardening in a broad range of topics, without ever turning too technical for the reader. The well-organized, thoroughly indexed and concise information is presented in handy tips, easy-to-remember answers to frequently asked questions, and step-by-step expert advice with detailed explanations that include topics like:  *Knowing your garden  *Choosing your plants  *Basic tools and equipment  *Planting, watering and feeding  *Wedding, pruning and protecting your plants  *Propagating plants and growing them in containers  *Taking care of your lawn  The key information and direct-to-the-point explanations contained in this handbook are accompanied with more than 250 full-color photos and illustrations, which perfectly depict the points being made and make this volume visually enjoyable. And with a binding perfectly suited for constant browsing and repeated check-ups, you are sure to come back to it again and again.   The one thing missing from this volume is a glossary for common terms, but overall, the nuggets of helpful information presented here are a great value for their price. This is a must-buy for beginners and would-be gardeners who want a simple and easy to follow guide with instructions that can be instantly absorbed.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-15
US	52776043	RHC4DU6JEW5LD	0618009345	167474818	Poems from The Hobbit	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	A charming addition to your Tolkien collection.	This pint-sized, delightful book, richly and colorfully illustrated with thirty of Tolkien's own drawings, contains all twelve poems from the Hobbit as they were originally published. As a bonus, it also includes the eight riddles Gollum poses to Bilbo, complete with their answers.  This wonderful volume is sure to be enjoyable to readers of all ages, and a wonderful keepsake that Tolkien followers can afford to carry around with them wherever they go. You shouldn't miss it.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-15
US	52776043	R2KGMMI9EOCBLG	038548660X	244091356	The New York Times Book of Science Questions & Answers: 200 of the best, most intriguing and just plain bizarre inquiries into everyday scientific mysteries	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	The astonishing facts behind our everyday mysteries.	This well-written and easy-to-understand book answers two hundred of the most interesting, curious and bizarre questions ever published in The New York Times' \\"Science Q&A\\" column, giving us an entertaining and informative look at the most fascinating and wonderful inquiries ever posed by inquisitive minds about the world we live in.  This compendium includes topics that range from astronomy, biology, anatomy and physics to nutrition, common sense, wilderness survival and even urban legends, all neatly organized in easy-to-browse sections that are delightfully illustrated by the witty and sometimes hilarious drawings that were originally published in the newspaper.  As a bonus, the section titled Notes located at the back of the book, lists the source(s) used to answer each question.  So, if you want to know whether the are any one-eyed animals or why a magnet loses its power overtime, where dust comes from or why bruises change color, what makes a Mexican jumping bean jump or why spoiled cans of food swell, then this is the book for you. It's a must-read, fact-filled, fun reference for readers of all ages, be it a science enthusiast or just someone who isn't afraid to ask life's most unconventional questions.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-15
US	52776043	R1T961INWH96	0789204061	792068433	Treasures of the Louvre (Tiny Folio)	Books	4	23	25	N	N	Excellent primer on the world's richest art collection.	Housing a majestic collection of nearly 300,000 works of art, only a fraction of which are on display at any one time, no book, no matter its size, can ever come close to actually visiting the Musée du Louvre itself. In that regard, this book is no different.  Where this comprehensive book, written by the museum's director, excels other visual guides of its kind is in both the assortment of the works it presents and in its easy-to-browse organization.   Printed in high-quality plates on semi-glossy paper, and bound in a sturdy, pocket-sized format, this little volume superbly reproduces nearly 400 of the museum's most renowned masterpieces. For each item, its name, author, place of origin, date of creation, materials and dimensions is indicated, and the pieces are chronologically arranged into seven distinct sections, according to the museum's own classification system:   *Oriental Antiquities  *Egyptian Antiquities  *Greek, Etruscan, and Roman Antiquities  *Decorative Arts  *Sculpture  *European Paintings  *Drawings  As a bonus, a brief look at the museum's history is offered in the Preface and, for fast check-ups, an Index of Illustrations is provided at the back.   For those who have already visited the museum this book is a first-class visual reminder of what you have seen, and for those who have never been to it, it gives a tantalizing glimpse of this vast and remarkable treasure.  Enjoy!  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-14
US	52776043	ROJ61NH6GJJ87	0060006641	545117488	On Writing Well, 25th Anniversary: The Classic Guide to Writing Nonfiction	Books	4	6	7	N	N	An invaluable guide to effective writing.	This well-presented, easy-to-read, and simple-to-understand book aimed at nonfiction writers, but from which fiction writers can also benefit, is an invaluable guide to achieving good writing through the continued use of the fundamental principles and practical insights it offers.<br />Written for both beginners and professionals in a strong, clear and straightforward style, it teaches how to avoid bad writing by following a methodological approach to creating, shaping and self-editing your ideas in prose.<br />Although sometimes the author's voice can come across as arrogant and boastful, making your read somewhat less pleasurable, I can assure you that only sound, concrete advice is presented here, free of fluff or tiring verbiage and illustrated by excellent examples that consistently emphasize the differences between correct and incorrect writing.<br />Divided in four parts, each made up of numerous, concise, and easy to consult chapters, it includes topics such as simplicity, style, usage, unity, leads, endings, and audience. Special attention is devoted to various types of nonfiction writing, including interviews, travel articles, memoirs, business writing, scientific and technological writing, sports articles, humor, criticisms and periodical columns.<br />Overall, this is one guide that can't afford to be missing from your bookshelf if you are serious about writing in a polished, well-defined and sharp style. As you write, you will find yourself referring to it again and again.<br /><br />For other books that focus on teaching good writing through the use of the tools of language, I also recommend Strunk's \\"The Elements of Style\\" and O'Conner's \\"Woe Is I\\" and \\"Words Fail Me.\\"<br />--Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-14
US	52776043	R1GUIJU3S2RFEV	076790396X	457085600	The Pilates Body: The Ultimate At-Home Guide to Strengthening, Lengthening and Toning Your Body- Without Machines	Books	4	28	28	N	Y	Great, but not the best.	This book is one of the best references on the Pilates Method available today, but it's not good enough to be considered a how-to manual. Although a great source of information on the principles of the mat workout, lacks precise instructions on the execution of the exercises, and doesn't include any reference to the equipment and accessories associated to the Method. Learning Pilates from this book without the aid of classes to explain and ensure correct form and fluid, rhythmic movements is very difficult. Its instructions on the motions of the exercises are confusing and not always precise, and its visualizations and diagrams are not clear enough for the inexperienced. Furthermore, only two photographs are given to illustrate each exercise, which are insufficient to properly explain all the necessary motions and positions to perform them.<br />The book only includes the mat workout, which is presented in an well-organized format for various complete workouts, from modified beginner to extra advanced, divided according to the type and level of difficulty of the exercises they comprise. Also, for quick consultations, each complete workout is illustrated in a chart as a sequential list of all its exercises.<br />As a bonus, the book includes a section on Frequently Asked Questions, a Glossary, and a directory of Pilates Studios in the US.<br />I slowly started doing Pilates with this book, but I didn't get too far, as I would sometimes hurt myself as a consequence of a misinterpretation of its instructions. Then I found \\"Pilates: Body in Motion\\" by Alycea Ungaro, which is a far superior volume. With its help I took a breath of fresh air that has lasted until today, and I am now doing the advanced workout all by myself. For a satisfying workout that in a short time shows dramatic results that stay with you for a long time, I can't praise enough the Pilates Method. But if you are trying to do the workout by yourself without the convenience of classes, this book is not the best place to start; you'll do better if you refer to Ungaro's book first and then try this one for additional exercises. I assure you that you won't be disappointed.<br />--Reviewed by M. E. Volmarce to start; you'll do better if you refer to Ungaro's book first and then try this one for additional exercises. I assure you that you won't be disappointed.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-11
US	52776043	R1SLEPJ68HM3XD	0156010879	305152292	Words Fail  Me: What Everyone Who Writes     Should Know about Writing	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Sugar-flavored medicine for bad writing disease.	From the writer of \\"Woe Is I\\" comes the companion volume \\"Words Fail Me\\", full of invaluable insights on clear and correct writing, and as instructional, informative, practical and witty as its predecessor. This book, written in an engrossing, humorous and charming style, offers useful advice on effective writing, including topics such as subject, time and place, point of view, repetitions, rhythm, emotion, writer's block, sense and reason, and even the writer's audience.<br />It is extremely well organized for quick checkups, and covers both the basics and the not so basics that any decent guide on good writing should. The examples presented are carefully chosen to perfectly illustrate the advice given, and the tips and tricks included will permanently help you avoid the common errors that usually hinder the flow and smoothness of fine writing.<br />No book can make you a better writer, but this book can make you better at writing. Whether you are a beginner or a professional, a fiction or nonfiction writer, or simply someone who loves writing but dislikes studying the nuts-and-bolts of English in droning grammar and composition textbooks, this book will prove itself to be a priceless reference.<br />Besides the author's \\"Woe Is I\\" I also recommend, for equally sound advice on writing, minus the added wit and humor, Zinsser's \\"On Writing Well\\" and Strunk's \\"The Elements of Style.\\"<br />--Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-11
US	52776043	R2IXJEA4K2N6PA	0810928868	619744232	Discoveries: Mummies (Discoveries Series)	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Excellent primer on Egyptian mummies.	This small, extremely detailed, well-organized and beautifully illustrated book is as thorough as such a short and small book on mummies can be.   Succinctly written and carefully researched, it presents a richly-depicted and very informative history of Egyptian mummies, from their creation by ceremonial priests, to their discovery by Arab, French and British explorers and archaeologists, to their present day status and location. Supported by contemporary research and citing innumerable historical sources, it includes topics like the mummification process, the Egyptian meaning of immortality and life after death, the greatest mummy discoveries ever made, and the past and present study of mummies and their tombs. But, be advised that this book only covers Egyptian mummies; the authors intentionally leave out any mention of any other mummies, including those found in China, Peru, North America and Northern Europe, so you'll have to look elsewhere for information on those.  As a bonus, the book includes a Map and Chronology of Ancient Egypt. And for those interested in pursuing a deeper study of the subject, a bibliographical reference titled Further Reading and a List of Illustrations, both located in the back of the book, will prove to be invaluable resources.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-11
US	52776043	R1RXZ4DO0LK55U	0345417623	786105285	Timeline	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An engrossing, fast-paced, action-packed adventure.	Professor Johnston is working in France as the chief archaeologist on a dig of a historical medieval town when the multi-millionaire Robert Doniger, owner of ITC, the company financing his project, suddenly calls him away to the US. A few days later, his son, Chris, and the students working on the dig learn from ITC that the Professor has mysteriously disappeared. Not long after, while working on the site, they find, inside a room that has been sealed for over 600 years, a disturbing manuscript bearing the Professor's handwriting; and when the document is unquestionably dated to the year 1357 they quickly turn to ITC demanding to know the Professor's whereabouts. Doniger explains that ITC, whose intent is to create a historical theme park by using cutting-edge technology to bring the past to life, has discovered a way to travel in time through a quantum wormhole. The Professor, who was sent to 1357 France, missed his return window and hasn't been heard from since. Before long, Chris and a team of archaeologists, historians, and even the military are on a mission to find and rescue the Professor, but as soon as they are sent back, and with a rapidly approaching deadline of 37 hours, things turn horribly wrong, both in the present and the past, and their chances of success start to look less and less promising.<br />In this novel, Michael Crichton masterfully combines mystery, action, adventure, history, technology, and science to give us an engrossing read. Through great, well-defined characters, Crichton immerses us in a marvelous adventure of clashing swords, secret passages, invading armies, and mysterious knights, and transports us into a realistically rendered medieval world. For a novel containing a five-page bibliography, it is only fair to mention that the true to life details present in Crichton's medieval world (on topics so far ranging as fashion, social customs, warfare and politics) are a direct result of the vast historical research he carefully conducted.<br />Even though, towards the end of the book, the never-slowing action takes the characters into too many life-threatening situations, the quality of the story is not irreparably affected, as Crichton compensates with a perfect ending, making this a fantastic and thoroughly enjoyable adventure.<br />--Reviewed by M. E. VolmarEven though, towards the end of the book, the never-slowing action takes the characters into too many life-threatening situations, the quality of the story is not irreparably affected, as Crichton compensates with a perfect ending, making this a fantastic and thoroughly enjoyable adventure.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-11
US	52776043	R1FI0THYHWK5YQ	0896761258	202062951	Patterns for Theatrical Costumes: Garments, Trims, and Accessories from Ancient Egypt to 1915	Books	5	44	45	N	Y	An invaluable resource.	This book is the most comprehensive, single-volume collection of historical patterns (from Ancient Egypt through 1915) available today for men's and women's costumes. While the pattern designs are very simplistic, present little detail on closures or embellishments and present only general instructions on construction, they are functional and very easy to make, represent nearly authentic cuts and effectively achieve the intended essential look for their specific period.   Each pattern in the book is presented in three sizes, and for each individual piece of a complete garment a label is often attached, giving its historical name and a brief description of its appearance or use. As a bonus, patterns for specialty costumes (fantasy, religious, Chinese, Japanese, and animals), undergarments, hats, wigs and masks are included, and its Introduction explains, in a step-by-step format, costuming techniques such as enlarging patterns, fitting designs, and draping.  This book can also serve, with just a little imagination, as an infinite source of ideas to help you create your own patterns, although you will have to refer to other books on period specific costumes to give your work finishing details like ornaments, trims, and other accessories.  The only weak point of the book is its glued soft-cover binding, which is completely inadequate for the spine-creasing use to which it's sure to be subjected.  If you either work for the theater or just enjoy making your own costumes, you will find this book to be an indispensable part of your library.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-09
US	52776043	RNVFUURNVOQXZ	0903505355	219737402	The House Plant Expert	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	All you need to know in one concise volume.	This beautifully illustrated and photographed book is a very informative and easy to use reference for anyone who wants authentic expert advice on growing and maintaining houseplants. This practically organized book is divided into nine readily accessible sections:  * Plants in the Home: serves as an introduction to the book and gives some advice on choosing, buying, housing, and repotting plants, as well as learning the basic rules of care and creating the right growing conditions for your houseplants.  * Displaying Indoor Plants: discusses the many considerations needed to be taken into account when keeping plants indoor, including mixing specimens, choosing pots, and selecting the right plant for each room.  * The Classification of House Plants: includes foliage houseplants, flowering houseplants, flowering pot plants and cacti.  * House Plants A-Z: is the most extensive alphabetized guide on houseplants in print in a single volume. Each plant's entry includes its image and/or picture, a description of its most common varieties, details on how to plant, grow and care for it, and a list of the ordinary problems that affect it.  * Plant Care: gives instructions on how to optimize the natural elements that impact the plant's health, including temperature, light, water, humidity, and air.  * Increasing Your Stock: explains how to successfully propagate houseplants by using the most suitable reproduction techniques.  * Plant Troubles: presents advice on how to speedily prevent or correct each trouble.  * Dictionary: defines both the technical and the not so technical terms used throughout the book.  * An Index.  This book deserves to be one of the best-sellers on houseplants because with its excellent selection of plants common to many countries and its clear, invaluable information it simply is an essential resource for anyone, whether beginner or professional, who wishes to grow and keep beautiful houseplants. I assure you that it's a book you will refer to time after time after time.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-08
US	52776043	R1SD5UBDQE82IQ	0806939826	779341595	Humorous Cryptograms	Books	5	20	21	N	Y	Have lots of fun with codes.	This inexpensive, sturdy, entertaining book contains 400 humorous, comical and sometimes even witty quotes, drawn from a myriad of personalities and encoded in challenging substitution cipher, guaranteed to keep you busy for hours.  It also includes an introduction with general hints for solving cryptograms and, for those who take a wrong turn, two sections with clues on the solution of each puzzle. The full solutions are presented at the back of the book, along with an index of authors and quotations for those searching for quotes from one or another individual in particular.  The puzzles vary in difficulty, and you will find yourself using your intuition, your knowledge of spelling and syntax, and even your familiarity of each quoted individual to figure them out.  If you love cryptograms, buy this book. I can assure you that besides getting a healthy workout for your mind, you will also find, at the end of each puzzle, a gratifying laugh, chuckle or smile.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-04
US	52776043	R1OHBN2VET8630	0806975911	681482064	365 Mind-Challenging Cryptograms	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	Occupy idle hours with an eclectic selection of coded quotes	This inexpensive, sturdy, entertaining book contains a one-a-day collection of 365 amusing, insightful and even witty quotes, drawn from a rich group of personalities whose birthday is celebrated on date under which they are featured. Ranging from poets, novelists, artists and movie stars, to scientists, politicians and philosophers, the quoted authors include William Blake, Lewis Carroll, Edgar Degas, Sophia Loren, Isaac Newton, Richard Nixon, Albert Camus, and 358 others. All the quotes are encoded in substitution cipher, each letter standing for another, and with varying degrees of difficulty they are guaranteed to keep you busy for hours as you find yourself using your intuition, your knowledge of spelling and syntax, and even your familiarity with each quoted personality to figure them out.  The book also includes an introduction that gives us general hints for solving cryptograms. Two sections with clues on the solution of each puzzle, one stating the occupation and year of birth of the celebrity being quoted and another stating the correct substitution for one or more letters, are included at the back, along with the solutions for each puzzle. An index of authors for those searching for quotes from a particular individual is also included.  If you love cryptograms, buy this book. I guarantee that you won't be able to do them just one a day.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-04
US	52776043	R1TB3FIBO0GPX1	0806907568	619277329	Clever Cryptograms	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Amuse yourself by deciphering meaningful coded quotes.	This inexpensive, sturdy, entertaining book contains 300 pleasurable, insightful and enlightening, even witty, quotes drawn from 30 of the world's most renowned thinkers, sages and philosophers, forming an eclectic collection that includes Epictetus, Cicero, Descartes, Wilde, Jung, Whitman and Einstein, among others. The quotes are encoded in substitution cipher of varying difficulty, and are guaranteed to keep you busy for hours as you find yourself using your intuition, your knowledge of spelling and syntax, and even your familiarity with each quoted personality to figure them out.  The book also contains an introduction with general hints for solving cryptograms and, of course, the solutions for each puzzle are presented at the back of the book, along with an index of authors and topics for those searching for quotes from one or another individual or subject in particular.  If you love cryptograms, buy this book.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-04
US	52776043	R2N4GOWL6R344T	1573226254	864394102	Woe Is I: The Grammarphobe's Guide to Better English in Plain English	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	The grammatical medicine you WILL want to take.	If you need to keep your writing sharp, or simply want to be taught, in common, everyday terms, the correct rules and usage of the English grammar, then this is the perfect guidebook for you: straightforward, enlightening, fun and free of technical jargon and grammatical fluff.  Extremely well organized, masterfully indexed and fully cross-referenced, it makes all topics readily accessible for fast checkups and repeated consultations. Written in a concise, lighthearted style, and combining witty instruction with sound advice and excellent examples that illustrate beyond any doubt the points being made, this is the most useful, entertaining and humorous book on English grammar available today.  Treated along the most common topics (pronouns, numbers, possessives, punctuation, plurals, cliches, etc.) are other not so common, yet invaluable, subjects: a list of frequent mistakes writers make, a discussion on outdated choices of usage and a glossary.  Overall, this is a very affordable, handy reference and delightful read that you'll keep going back to again and again. If you are a professional writer, you might consider complementing this book with other, more extensive publications like the latest edition of The Chicago Manual of Style and Strunk's The Elements of Style. And, for even further study, the book's bibliography constitutes a first-class resource for choosing additional reading material.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-04
US	52776043	R1JDUJBPWBZK6F	0810928698	556057933	Vampires : Restless Creatures of the Night (Discoveries)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent primer on the enduring myth of vampires.	This small, well organized, and beautifully illustrated book is an unexpectedly thorough and complete reference on vampire lore in Western culture.  Succinctly written and carefully researched, it presents an entertaining and informative account on the mythical and religious origins of vampires, citing innumerable traditional, historical and literary sources, from the earliest civilizations to the present day. It also includes a discussion on the evolution and permanence of vampires in our culture through literature and films, featuring an exhaustive filmography of the most often dramatized of all fictional characters.  For those interested in pursuing a deeper study of the subject, the bibliographical reference titled Further Reading and the List of Illustrations, both located in the back of the book, will prove to be invaluable resources.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-04
US	52776043	R3GWT4GZZL2HWT	0810928094	196987405	Discoveries: Leonardo da Vinci (Discoveries (Abrams))	Books	5	21	22	N	Y	Excellent primer on the life of a unique genius.	This small, well organized, and beautifully illustrated book is an unexpectedly thorough and complete reference on the life of Leonardo da Vinci, from his birth in Italy to his death in France.  Chronologically organized and succinctly written, but without being a mere biography, this book presents a well-researched portrait of one of the greatest geniuses of the Renaissance. Often citing historical sources and quoting entries from the artist's own notebooks, the author presents an insightful account of Leonardo's views, research and achievements in both art and science, as well as many firmly accepted anecdotes and little-known facts about his character and personal life.  For those interested in a deeper treatment of the subject, the choice bibliographic reference titled Further Reading, located at the back of the book, will be of particular value.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-03
US	52776043	R29OOROKWC5SOO	0898799279	17052116	Elements of Fiction Writing - Characters & Viewpoint	Books	5	132	135	N	Y	All you want to know and more.	Orson Scott Card, a well-known, successful sci-fi writer, master of the craft of characterization, gives us with this book one of the few writing reference volumes that flawlessly delivers everything it promises and more. Whether you want to write fiction of any genre, or scripts and plays, and whether you are a beginner or an experienced writer, this book has tons of essential, useful and solid information to offer.  Written in a clear, engaging style and organized in a user-friendly format this thoroughly informative volume is divided into three parts (Inventing Characters, Constructing Characters and Performing Characters) that cover everything you need to know to breathe life and believability into your characters and mold them to accurately fit your story, including among others:  *The factors that make a good character  *How to come up with ideas for your characters  *How different types of stories relate to the characters  *How to give emotion to the characters  *The different types of characters  *Transformations in the lives of characters  *The pros and cons of each point-of-view  The author's suggested exercises reinforced by the excellent examples that illustrate his exposition are helpful additions that allow the reader to immediately apply the lessons learned. Humorous anecdotes and important advice on general storytelling (sources for ideas, plot twists, story structure) are an added bonus.  With this book, you will not only learn how to create great, memorable characters, but you will also attain a greater appreciation of fiction, whether in book or film format, by gaining understanding of the processes required in all aspects of characterization.  With a great binding, sure to resist constant rereads and quick consultations, and a modest price this book is the best value on the market for the advice offered.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-06-01
US	52776043	RB87860MK1797	0439571677	59874657	How To Draw (The Justice League)	Books	2	19	19	N	Y	Not even close to all you need to know.	This is an altogether poor how to draw book that leaves a lot to be desired. Its meager introduction only contains a very haphazard list of materials without specifications or descriptions, followed by the most unhelpful step-by-step layout I have ever seen on a how to draw book. On the left pages it has a full-page color drawing of one Justice League superhero with a short history of the character. On the opposite page there are four progressive drawings on graph paper on how to obtain that finished image, as in copying the same previously presented image and not being able to create your own. There are NO instructions on how to go from one step to the other, and NO discussion of guidelines on basic figure drawing, head and figure proportions, movements or expressions, comparisons of male and female figure features, or perspective and foreshortening for backgrounds and figures, all of them essential issues to any serious cartoonist. It also lacks instructions on compositional drawings, i.e., drawings showing two or more superheroes interacting with backgrounds.  This 32-page book also contains a 2-page presentation, a 1-page introduction, a 1-page conclusion, and 4 sheets (8 pages) of graph paper in the back, leaving you with only 20 pages (10 images) of superhero drawings, that is: 2 for Superman, 2 for Batman, 2 for Wonder Woman and one each for Martian Manhunter, Green Lantern, Flash and Hawkgirl.  I would recommend buying any of the three Ty Templeton books on cartooning the DC comics universe first: How to Draw Batman, How To Draw Superman or How to Draw Batman and Other DC Comics Superheroes, to get your money's worth of everything missing from this book. Or, if you are desperate to draw the Justice League like Bruce Timm, try downloading some images from the Internet and practice copying them on graph paper, you'll probably do just as well or a lot better than by buying this book.  This book is aimed for a 9 to 12 years-old audience, but even they will findthe lack of instruction in this book frustrating, what it lacks in depth, it doesn't compensate in price or print quality.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-02-14
US	52776043	R1B61HJOY367S2	0671000225	619014946	Star Trek Cookbook	Books	2	61	68	N	N	A creative effort that should have aimed a lot higher.	It's a shame that this book has been labeled and endorsed by the Star Trek franchise as their official cookbook, because it's been obviously written by people who don't understand and didn't bother to check the background information given on most foods and beverages presented in any of the Star Trek movies and the first four TV series (Original series, Next Generation, Deep Space Nine and Voyager).  This book's very confusing format is divided into six main sections that list the recipes according to the character's likes and dislikes based, by the way, on very doubtful assertions, which include many inaccurate quotes and anecdotes that conveniently make many Star Trek unrelated dishes seem related to the series. This means that in order to find a Strawberries and Cream recipe, you must look for it among the recipes listed as Capt. Janeway's favorites in the Voyager section.  The book also includes some dish variations that go way beyond just making a few adjustments to the recipes. For example, there is a recipe for a Klingon Blood Pie, traditionally a baked roast and veal kidneys pie, which transforms it into a sweet cranberry pie.   Most of the recipes are poorly written and badly edited, and lack specific information, giving only general instructions and details. Also, the authors have avoided including any recipe containing alcohol, altogether ignoring the liquors and spirits often showcased in the Star Trek universe.  The book's visual style is also a minus, as it doesn't include a single color photograph of a finished dish, only containing black & white pictures (mostly of crew members) taken directly from the shows. But the book's worst feature is the author's patronizing and annoying writing style.  I gave the book two stars because of the information and techniques on making prop foods and the very well written and very delicious recipes contributed by many Star Trek actors. If these two things aren't enough to satisfy you, don't even bother with this book.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-01-19
US	52776043	R2QJXFR1VRZ2CI	1560103264	348348127	How to Draw Batman (DC Comics How to Draw Books)	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Grab your art supplies, ready, set... go!	This beautifully illustrated, easy to follow, step-by-step, how-to guide is the first book you should buy to learn the basic drawing techniques you need to accurately depict each cartoon character from the Batman universe (in the Bruce Timm/Animated Series style).  The information and instructions contained in this book are wonderfully organized and presented in step-by-step format (from rough sketch to finished drawing), include a list of tools and materials you need to get started and cover topics that include: guidelines on basic figure drawing, head and figure proportions, movements and expressions, comparisons of male and female figure features, and perspective and foreshortening for backgrounds and figures. The book also contains a detailed treatment on how to draw each character, including Batman, Robin, Alfred, Commissioner Gordon, Batgirl, Catwoman, Harley Quinn, Poison Ivy, Two-Face, Mr. Freeze, The Penguin, The Riddler, The Joker, and Ra's al Ghul. As a bonus, the book teaches us how to draw settings and accessories like Gotham City, the Batcave, the Batmobile, guns, bombs and Bat-a-rangs.  This book is a simple, yet excellent resource on how to create your own adventures for the Dark Knight, at the same time that you begin to understand the basic principles of cartooning and animation.   A must buy for kids and adults who want to draw the Batman universe like professional artists in a relatively short time. If you prefer a more general book on how to draw DC Comics super heroes, I recommend buying How to Draw Batman and the DC Comics Super Heroes by Ty Templeton instead, since it contains around 90% of the characters featured in this book, plus a lot of other characters from other DC Comics universes.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-01-19
US	52776043	R2JGTIZDQ2JWQM	0439634679	313701353	How To Draw Spider-man	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A helpful book, but lacks a bit of depth.	This beautifully illustrated guide is an introductory book on the basic drawing techniques needed to accurately depict several cartoon characters from the Spider-man universe in their well-known Marvel Comics style.  The information and instructions contained in this book are logically organized and include a list of tools and materials you need to get started, guidelines on how to use the book and some basic information on perspective. It also contains some step-by-step examples on how to draw characters like Spiderman (and Peter Parker), Mary Jane, Black Cat, Daredevil, Venom, Dr. Octopus, Lizard, Mysterio and Vulture.   However, this book lacks information on several topics that include guidelines on basic figure drawing, head and figure proportions, movements and expressions, comparisons of male and female figure features, and perspective and foreshortening for backgrounds and figures. It also lacks some steps on its step-by-step instructions, better explanations on how to reach the finished drawings and a lot more useful advice on detailing the characters.  Buy this book only if you can't find any other references on how to draw Spider-man.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-01-19
US	52776043	R2J703166ZZ153	0903505312	93771271	The Fruit Expert	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	The "Temperate Climate" Fruit Expert.	This beautifully illustrated and photographed book is a very informative and easy to use reference for everyone who wants expert advice on how to plant and keep a fruit garden. This wonderfully organized book is divided into six sections:  * The Fruit in the Garden: gives advice on how to choose the right type of fruit for your garden.  * The Tree Fruit: a guide to buying, planting and keeping specific fruits that grow on trees, including apples, pears, plums, cherries, peaches and nectarines, apricots, figs, mulberries and quinces.  * The Soft Fruit: a guide to buying, selecting site and soil, planting and keeping, feeding and mulching, and protecting from birds and viruses fruits that don't grow on trees, including berries, currants, grapes, melons and kiwis.  * Shop-Bought Fruit: an illustrated reference on how to recognize fruits available in the market, including tips on how to buy, preserve, ripen and eat them.  * A Glossary.  * An Index.  As an added bonus, both the Tree Fruit and the Soft Fruit sections contain a visual reference to help you identify several different varieties of the same fruit, and a very thorough guide on solving common fruit troubles.  The information given in this book for the fruits listed is very complete; however, since it was written for a British public, it only lists temperate climate fruits. Other fruits like banana, orange, papaya, avocado, pineapple, mango, grapefruit, lemon, etc. are not included in the book, except for their brief entries in the Shop-Bought Fruit section.  I recommend buying this book if you want to start your own temperate climate fruit garden, and complement it with other books when you are ready to add to it some tropical fruits.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-01-19
US	52776043	RNBM0B007E7FT	0399508031	825657700	Cartooning the Head and Figure	Books	5	58	58	N	Y	A complete reference on cartooning the head and figure.	This book is a clearly written, easy to follow, detailed and concise handbook on cartooning the head and figure by using several different styles and variations, and emphasizing humor and exaggeration. This fully illustrated reference contains over 3,000 step-by-step diagrams and illustrations and is structured into sixteen carefully organized sections that cover the basic and not so basic principles of cartooning.   It includes general topics like caricatures, cartooning styles and techniques, the head and face, the standing, walking and running figure, different positions for the figure, and emotions and facial expressions (the alphabetized catalog of 150 emotions and expressions alone is worth the price of this book). He also goes into specific topics like hands, feet and clothing, pretty girls, babies and children, and sports cartoons. As an added bonus he includes additional topics such as Advertising Applications for Cartoons and Special Problems which cover specific characters like hobos, tramps and the military, and conversations, special attires and crowds, among others.  By studying this book as if it were a textbook on a course, doing all the exercises and reviewing each section afterwards, my cartoons have come to life in a very, very short time.  The invaluable and practical advice in this book is essential for any artist's reference library and can be particularly useful for beginners, cartoonists, animators, characters designers, and comic book artists. It also serves as a great source book for ideas.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-01-18
US	52776043	R21RVFIFTC5KX	0399508023	118956429	How to Draw Animals (Perigee)	Books	5	56	57	N	N	A priceless resource on the fundamentals of drawing animals.	This book is a clearly written and easy to follow step-by-step guide to drawing animals by applying a comparative anatomy system using geometric shapes to help you understand how animals are put together. This fully illustrated reference contains over a thousand diagrams and illustrations and is structured into twenty carefully organized sections in which the author covers the basic and not-so-basic concepts, principles and techniques you need in order to produce realistic, three dimensional and anatomically accurate renderings of animals.   His topics on specific animals include the cat family, the bear family, the horse family, the elephant, the dog family, the camel, the giraffe, the hippopotamus, the rhinoceros, the deer family, the buffalo, the cow, the pig, the monkey and the ape family, the kangaroo and the rabbit. As an added bonus he includes other topics: Odd and Unusual Animals, Miscellaneous Small Animals and Animal Interpretation and Abstraction, as well as an Introduction to Animal Drawing in which he focuses on animal simplification, structure, construction, poses, gaits and movements, comparisons and techniques on how to make animals look more natural. As a warning, note that this book only explains how to draw mammals and doesn't include mollusks, amphibians, insects, reptiles or birds.  By studying this book as if it were a textbook on a course, doing all the exercises and reviewing each section afterwards, I have steadily improved my drawings of animals in such a short time that I am now constantly rewarded with praise from my friends and family.  This book will give to the beginner the fundamentals of drawing animals, and will give to the seasoned artist and professional new principles and techniques to try. For both, this book is a must buy.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-01-18
US	52776043	R27DZI4FJHM28S	0823023524	407554252	How to Draw (Watson-Guptill Artist's Library)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Misleading title, but good book on the art of drawing.	This book is a condensed version of the more complete book \\"The Great Book of Drawing\\" (originally written and published in Spanish), that has been roughly updated and unsatisfactorily adapted to the English-speaking public.  This beautifully and richly illustrated book contains an overview on the history of the art of drawing (from the prehistory to the twentieth century), which highlights the most important movements and most distinguished and significant artists of each period. It also includes a section on materials, tools and techniques that give the artist a basic idea of the properties and applications of each, making them familiar with the most commonly known and widely used materials and tools, and pointing out which techniques work best for which desired effects.  Also in this book are included two sections, Practicing Basic Drawing Techniques and Drawing in Practice, which are, at best, superficially and poorly written, lacking any real step-by-step instructions or exercises. Here is where this book goes from being an instructive book into being a book that simply shows you how much better than you the artist is without explain how he does it.  This is not really a book on hot to draw, but rather an introduction to the history, materials, tools, techniques and principles of the art of drawing. If you are looking for a step-by-step book on how to draw, get a title like First Lessons in Drawing and Painting by Jack Hamm. Only buy this book if you want a general, illustrated overview of the craft.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-01-18
US	52776043	R3KXL42XW1E620	0811821846	450016522	The Star Wars Cook Book: Wookiee Cookies and Other Galactic Recipes	Books	5	32	33	N	N	A must buy for the true Star Wars fan.	This beautifully illustrated, spiral-bound, hardcover book is a must buy for any serious Star Wars fan who wants to add a touch of The Force to his or her life with the delicious recipes featured in it.  The book is divided into five sections for easy reference: Breakfasts, Beverages, Snacks and Sides, Main Courses and Desserts. Each Star Wars themed recipe is fully and clearly explained (ingredient measurements and preparation instructions) for easy understanding. The book also comes with a few foil stickers for storage and gift labeling and an introduction that contains practical advise on cooking safety and a guide of the cooking tools you'll need. As an added bonus, the pages of the book are laminated for easy, stain-free cleaning.  You will love all the recipes, and will probably recreate, the wonderfully photographed serving suggestions given in the book like the Han-Burgers, Crazy Cantina Chili and the Jabba Jiggle, which are decorated with the action figures of known characters of the original Star Wars movie trilogy. Other recipes' presentations feature enjoyable visual puns like the TIE Fighter Ties, the Twin Sun Toast and the R2-D2 Treats. Some are even very basic, but really tasty, recipes that have been given clever Star Wars-sounding names like Oola-la French Toast, Hoth Chocolate, Yoda Soda and Boba Fett-uccine.  Buy this book, and share the joy of cooking and your love of everything Star Wars with kids and adults, family and friends. And May The Force Be With You.  I would also recommend buying the Star Wars Cookbook II and The Star Wars Party Book along with this one as they all make a complete, excellent and fun idea source book for everyday cooking and Star Wars themed parties.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-01-18
US	52776043	R2MAV49ZENK5IS	0811828034	394948394	The Star Wars Cookbook II -Darth Malt and More Galactic Recipes	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Another must buy for the true Star Wars fan.	This book is the following volume to the Star Wars Cookbook: Wookie Cookies and Other Galactic Recipes and like its predecessor it has the same beautifully illustrated, spiral-bound, hardcover format. It is another must buy for serious Star Wars fans that want to keep adding delicious Star Wars themed recipes to their lives and want to have fun while preparing their meals.  The book is divided into five sections for easy reference: Breakfasts, Snacks and Sides, Main Courses, Desserts and Treats, and Drinks. Each Star Wars themed recipe is fully and clearly explained (ingredient measurements and preparation instructions) for easy understanding. The book's introduction contains practical advice on cooking safety and includes a guide of the cooking tools you'll need. As an added bonus, the pages of the book are laminated for easy, stain-free cleaning.  You will love all the recipes, and will probably recreate, the wonderfully photographed serving suggestions given in the book like the Booma Breakfast Tarts, the Pit Droid Pizza, and the Qui-Gon Jinn-ger Snaps which are decorated with the action figures of known characters of the Star Wars Episode I movie. Other recipes' presentations feature enjoyable visual puns like the Boss Nass Broccoli, the Protocol Droid Pasta and the Darth Maul Dip (which even includes a plastic template for decoration). Some are even very basic, but really tasty, recipes that have been given clever Star Wars-sounding names like Darth Malt, Panakacakes and Pickle Jar Jar.  Buy this book, and share the joy of cooking and your love of everything Star Wars with kids and adults, family and friends. And May The Force Be With You.  I would also recommend buying the Star Wars Cookbook and The Star Wars Party Book along with this one as they all make a complete, excellent and fun idea source book for everyday cooking and Star Wars themed parties.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-01-18
US	52776043	R2MZ05UA20A5FV	0399508066	82082653	Drawing Scenery: Landscapes and Seascapes	Books	5	85	87	N	Y	The only book on drawing scenery you will ever need.	This book is hands-down my favorite step-by-step tool on drawing scenery. It's clearly written, which makes its instructions very easy to follow and understand, and it's masterfully organized in six sections that clearly relate to one another, making it easy to go back to specific topics at any time. In its first section alone (Introduction to the Basics of Scenery Drawing) it includes very well explained drawing basics like composition, space division, picture elements, comprehension factors, materials and more. It also goes beyond most scenery drawing books in the market to include, beside the usual landscape and terrain composition techniques, other important concepts: Drawing Trees and Foliage, Drawing Rocks and Mountains, Drawing Clouds and Skies, Drawing Water (Oceans, Lakes, Rivers and Falls), and Drawing Buildings (in various shapes and sizes). Additional bonuses are the authors' constant tips on a wide variety of topics that go from shading and highlighting to artistic treatment and texturing of surfaces.  This book is also fully illustrated with over 900 beautiful diagrams and pictures that work as invaluable examples, which accurately illustrate the instructions given by the author. Some people might be discouraged from purchasing this title due to it being completely illustrated in black & white, but trust me when I say that it doesn't need color images. It's so well written that you'll soon start seeing the illustrations in the colors your imagination and creativeness will give them.  I used this book as one would use a textbook on a course, doing all the exercises and going back to all the lessons in each section after I had finished with it. In only two months my work has improved 100% and my drawings have won praise from friends and family.  Buy this book if you are a professional trying to fine-tune your craft and buy it if you are a beginner serious about drawing, both will discover the benefits of applying to your work all the essential scenery-drawing techniques that it contains.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-01-17
US	52776043	R2ZPXJJBRVWUMS	0399514783	476104551	First Lessons in Drawing and Painting	Books	5	44	44	N	Y	The only book you will ever need on the basics of drawing.	This book (formerly published as Still Life Drawing and Painting) is the definitive step-by-step welcome guide to those who are serious about pursuing artistic drawing. In roughly 100 pages, nine carefully crafted sections and over 800 illustrations and diagrams, the author covers the basic and not-so-basic concepts, elements, skills and techniques you need in order to produce realistic still-life drawings of everyday objects. His topics include picture elements, space division, composition, depth, textures, values, light and shadow, etc, all of which are explained in detail for a wide variety of mediums like pencil, watercolor, pastel, chalk, graphic pens, oil and acrylic, etc. As an added bonus, the author introduces us to abstraction in art. He also teaches us how to analyze other artists' work and understand which techniques went into their creation.  By studying this book as if it were a textbook on a course, doing all the exercises and reviewing each section afterwards, I have steadily improved my craft in just over a month. My drawings no longer look amateurish or sloppy, and they have been constantly rewarded with praise from my friends and family.  If you are new to drawing, buy this book as your introduction to the craft, you'll reap the rewards of working on solid principles as you get into deeper and more specific kinds of drawing. If you are a seasoned artist, buy it to review what you know and discover new techniques and new mediums. Its masterfully organized content, clearly written instructions and pleasant visual style will make your learning experience most enjoyable, and the invaluable concepts, lessons and techniques will make your art look professional right from start.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-01-17
US	52776043	R1GVDWEQXPR3SN	0486404730	641280800	Perspective Made Easy (Dover Art Instruction)	Books	5	243	246	N	Y	The one book on perspective you'll ever need.	For a book first published in 1939, Norling's \\"Perspective Made Easy\\" is still the authority on perspective. This concise book contains in roughly 200 pages and 256 illustrations all you'll ever need to know about perspective drawing. In twenty masterfully organized chapters, from simple to complex, the author explains the basics and not so basics of perspective drawing. He includes suggestions on how to make your drawings a lot simpler, drawing methods for observation and space division, a Remember section at the end of each chapter in which he summarizes the most important information and principles presented in that chapter, and a Problems section with exercises that will help you apply what you just learned. One of the best rewards of this book comes in its last chapters where the author covers perspective drawing for a great number of regular and irregular figures like a sphere, a cone, ovals, circles, lamps, cars, etc. With this the author goes many steps beyond all those other books out there that only teach you how to draw cubes and square buildings.<br />The book may be a bit repetitive at times, but this is not annoying at all, it just makes the author sound as if he was teaching a class in school or college, and it helps you to easily remember the most important information presented. After reading this book my understanding of perspective and the perspective in my drawings have improved 100%. If you follow his teachings and exercises you will learn how to determine the perspective you need to apply to your drawing, whether you are drawing in the field or using photographs as a model, and you will soon start making your drawings look solid, deep and proportionate.<br />If you are only getting one book on perspective, get this one.<br />--Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2004-01-11
US	52776043	R3Q2RQCYBTY16K	0316286850	212807922	Making Faces	Books	5	70	77	N	Y	Practical, beautifully illustrated and photographed.	I love playing with new looks and colors and this book is the perfect tool on how to make it easy and fun while getting professional looking results. It will help you discover exciting new looks you never dreamed of and the full potential of every makeup tool you own. The instructions on how to accomplish every look in the book are clearly illustrated step-by-step, making them extremely easy to follow. The advice given by the author comes alive with his own funny anecdotes on discovering and experimenting with makeup.  This book is extremely well organized into three sections. The first one covers the basics of what you need to know about each part of your face, how to apply makeup to each, which tools to use and how to enhance and get the most benefit from your strongest features. The second one shows you makeovers done on ordinary people that look like you and me. It includes before and after pictures that show the impact of well-applied makeup on every kind of skin and color combination. The third section is the most impressive part of the book. It shows known celebrities made up like other celebrities that have established iconic looks over the years. (Look for Lisa Marie-Presley as Marilyn Monroe and Isabella Rosellini as Barbra Streisand).  This book also includes a few male makeup techniques, from the conservative (using concealer and powder) to the adventurous (using eyeliner and eyeshadow) to the extremist (using everything from powder and blush to lipstick and a wig).  Although there are three or four extreme looks in this book that I don't think I will ever try, all of the rest can be applied just as they are or with slight modifications. The great advice, easy to follow instructions, funny anecdotes, if not the great photographs alone, make this book a must buy for anyone who uses makeup regularly or sporadically. It's so rewarding that you won't be disappointed.  I recommend buying Beauty: The New Basics by Rona Berg along with this book to complement the makeup knowledge with the best advice on skin care, hair care and beauty products that's available on a printed format.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2003-12-22
US	52776043	RJ3ZD6SOIUFOS	0761101861	8649308	Beauty: The New Basics	Books	5	56	56	N	Y	The practical beauty advice you had been waiting for.	This is the most complete, fun, practical and informational book about beauty that I have ever read.  If the author's knowledgeable-without-being-patronizing and pleasant tone doesn't make your reading fun. If the great illustrations and paper quality doesn't make you fall in love with this book. If the easy-to-use index and cross-referencing doesn't make you come back to it for endless checkups and casual browsing. Then the information contained in the book, the author's use of personal experiences to illustrate particular points and the vast amount of practical advice for you to try out will.  The book is divided in three sections that cover: The Face, The Hair and The Body. The Face includes information on the basics of cleaning and caring for your skin, the benefits of facials, advice on aging-skin and techniques for choosing and applying makeup. The Hair section deals with the basics of hair care, coloring and styling (from cuts that fit the shape of your face and body to styling solutions for perfect hairstyles). In the Body the author explains the many rewards of bathing and the care of hands and feet, and gives you the inside scoop on spas.  Every section tells you everything you need to know to create and customize your own beauty regimen for each part of your body. Includes special advice for different types of skin and skin tones, different hair colors and textures, eye shapes and colors, body types and beauty techniques (from cleansing gel to surgery). The accurate and up-to-date product recommendations let you easily find tried-and-tested products and worthy splurges without having to go through innumerable tryouts, and her explanations on product ingredients allows you to make a preliminary elimination of harsh or unfavorable new products.  Interesting fun treats are the timelines in beauty development at the end of each section, where a lot of interesting and curious tidbits about beauty abound.  The only problem the book has is the soft cover binding. At around 400 pages of heavy graphic paper and after a few months of browsing and night table reading, the covers are somewhat worn at the corners and the side is a bit creased.  Buy this book if you want to start enjoying the benefits that the knowledge of the basics of beauty can offer, and want to have fun at the same time. Get it in hardcover if you can afford the price.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2003-10-22
US	52776043	R2453BD7W7EMUW	0060392428	521874961	Zone Food Blocks: The Quick and Easy, Mix-and-Match Counter for Staying in the Zone	Books	4	23	25	N	Y	An excellent tool to stay in the Zone.	This book is a very helpful and easy-to-use guide that contains over 12,000 food entries converted into Zone Food Blocks.   Its introduction includes a synopsis of the Zone program and a few important facts about the program, all of which had been previously presented separately in other Zone books. Most importantly, the introduction explains how Dr. Sears modified food block protein, carbohydrate and fat contents from his previous books to reflect the real content in each serving, and to make it compatible with the results we get when we calculate blocks from food labels. (This modification doesn't affect the program or your meals as long as use in each meal or snack preparation either this book or the little food guide on the back of other books, all of whose items are included on Zone Food Blocks. You should not mix information from both.)  The main content of the book is divided into the common Proteins, Carbohydrates and Fat categories, and as a bonus includes two more sections: Fast Foods and Prepared Meals. Each food in each of the categories states the item's name (organized alphabetically for quick checkups), style, brand, serving size and protein, carbohydrate and fat block content. Tricky items are also cross-referenced; for example, oats appears under both 'cereal' and 'oats'. And the book has a very sturdy hardcover binding to make it resistant to the daily tear and wear that anyone on the Zone program will be likely to submit it too.  There are only two important down sides to this book, and hence I only give it four stars. First, it doesn't separate food in favorable and unfavorable groups and second, it's a bit pricey.  Buy this book if you don't have access to the Internet, only use your computer sparingly, or want to (like me) have all this information in an accessible, permanent, printed form. All the information it contains can be found in the Food Block databases of the [...] and [...] websites.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2003-10-22
US	52776043	R2NNOW5EMWIHJ2	006103083X	37054433	A Week in the Zone	Books	5	57	57	N	Y	The one eating program that really, really works.	If you have a weight problem, bad eating habits, or feel like the food you eat gives you more problems than it's supposed to, then this is the book for you. I had problems with my weight, very poor acne-prone skin and very low energy levels since I was fourteen. I tried every program and diet I could find, and the most weight I ever lost, without downright starving myself, was about 10 pounds over a period of four to six months. I was always depressed and anxious over dieting, and most diets worked horrors for my immunological system, energy, skin, hair and nails. By following the Zone as explained in this book, although making my own Zone recipes, I have lost eight pounds in two weeks and feel better than ever. I haven't gotten sick, my energy levels are soaring, and I'm eating the foods I like without ever being hungry. The condition of my skin, hair and nails is at an all-time best.  The Zone is a very easy to follow eating plan, (I was used to it by the third day) based on combining different foods in the proportions that add up the amount of proteins, carbohydrates and fat you should consume at each meal. By making use of meal timing it insures proper delivery of the nutrients to your body, and by including a couple of Zone balanced snacks between meals, it minimizes carbohydrate cravings and hunger.  The book is very easy to understand. It thoroughly explains, backed by scientific research, the ways different foods and nutrients impact your body and the reasons why some foods are good for us while some are bad. The eating program it promotes is very easy to follow and it works even if you follow it only 75% of the time. Its results are almost instantaneous, and you start to notice them as soon as the second day. If you want even faster results, you should also include a 30-minute daily workout in your schedule.  Buy this book, get started on the program, and customize it to fit your needs, soon you'll start enjoying a healthier life in a healthier body. Weightloss will be an added benefit and you will thank yourself later.  I also recommend buying the Zone Food Blocks book as a tool, it contains around 12,000 foods converted into Zone balanced proportions, including prepared meals and items from known Fast Food Restaurant menus. As another tool I recommend visiting Dr. Sears' Website at [...].  Buy this book and discover the amazing benefits that a well-balanced eating program can give you.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2003-10-17
US	52776043	R4MAHO3PL506T	0789484005	105844206	Pilates: Body in Motion	Books	5	187	190	N	Y	The best Pilates book to date.	Pilates is a method of exercising, shaping and toning the body that's very different from a common workout. Two years ago I started doing Pilates aided by a very good book called The Pilates Body by Brooke Siler. In the first few weeks I had already lost some weight, was noticing the outline of my muscles and had stopped feeling hungry all the time. I have since dropped two dress sizes and I still do the workout daily.<br />After going through five other books I think that Pilates: Body in Motion is, without a doubt, the best Pilates workout book to date. Why? Well, first, the book is organized in a logical and easy-to-study format that helps to memorize and follow the different levels of the workout program without missing a single step, and allows browsing through them for quick consultations.<br />Second, it presents the complete sequence for each exercise photographed, and step-by-step instructions for each movement with detailed, but simple, explanations of posture, breathing and motion.<br />Third, it has complimentary information for each exercise: number of repetitions, warnings and alternatives for people who shouldn't perform particular exercises, modified versions to make sure the program is adaptable to almost anyone, dos and don'ts to insure proper execution, and transitional positions between following exercises to maintain the rhythm of the workout.<br />Fourth, it includes a thorough explanation of the key principles of the Pilates method, whose application is fundamental to achieve the benefits offered by the workout.<br />Fifth, it contains preparation exercises for each level (from beginner to advanced) that serve as a sort of test to indicate when to move on to the next level.<br />I recommend this book to anyone serious about maintaining a healthy, toned, and well-shaped body. I would also recommend buying The Pilates Body by Brooke Siler for additional exercises and The Optimum Nutrition Bible by Patrick Holford for a natural and effective way to backup your workout on advice on how to eat.<br />--Reviewed by M. E. Volmarout on advice on how to eat.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2003-06-08
US	52776043	R1S1TC0ZB0K2Y2	0671024248	692650386	Hearts In Atlantis	Books	5	30	31	N	N	Unputdownable.	With a novel as rich, delightful, and fascinating-in one word unputdownable-as this, no matter how hard you try to write a thorough review about it, it's very likely that you will leave something out.   The story begins while the main characters, Bobby Garfield, Carol Gerber and John Sullivan, childhood friends growing up together in a small American town, are eagerly expecting the coming summer vacations, unaware that before the summer is over their lives are going to be changed forever.   Spanning four decades, the novel shows us how, though the eyes of a wide group of characters, directly and indirectly related to Bobby, Carol and John (Sully) and through their own eyes, their lives unfold.  Stephen King's narrative all through the book is at his best. He incorporates supernatural elements using his mastery of the craft and creates characters so humanly natural that they feel to the reader like old college friends. The experiences of the main characers are so well balanced between the quotidian and the extraordiary, that I almost felt this was a true story about real people. The supporting characters are so interesting that one cannot help wanting to meet them face to face and know more about how their lives unfold. The places are so richly and vividly described, and the time periods so pictorially represented through fashions, ideologies, settings, and even music, that you actually feel the richness and evolution of American culture as you read, even if you didn't live through those times.   Of everything this novel has to offer, what I liked the most, without a doubt, is its spectacular, believable, satisfying and sweet ending.  This novel is charming, entertaining, surprising and fun, for both fans and non-fans of Stephen King, and for everyone who enjoys the twists and turns of life and the hidden connections between the lives of strangers. A must read.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2003-05-02
US	52776043	R2BCBB43B84I78	0415050367	150125526	The Seven Wonders of the Ancient World	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The Most Complete Ever!	The Seven Wonders of The Ancient World is one of the most complete and illustrative books that I have ever read on the subject. Even the 1990 reprint, going on 13 years without a revision, is still accurate. Each chapter explains in detail one of these seven ancient monuments, starting with it's history, location, purpose, construction and description; and ending in a vivid account on how they came to be no more or the way the sites still stand today. The images included within the text also show us, besides conceptual pictures of the monuments through the ages, a glimpse of the way that archaeology reconstructed the pieces to the puzzling appearance of some of these monuments and the way archaeologists interpreted ancient accounts of people that lived to see these wonders in their heyday. The book also contains two chapters in which the authors describe other lists of ancient wonders and the way those lists that we know today came to be created. The task of the authors in putting together in one book all the information of these seven wonders is a remarkable work of scholarship, mostly given to the fact that six of these seven monuments no longer exist and the great number of different accounts that survived to our day instead. This is a must-read book for all of those interested in archaeology, history or ancient civilizations.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2003-05-02
US	52776043	R34GOITAN0JOOF	0764551922	842641748	Fitness Walking For Dummies	Books	4	44	44	N	N	Fitness walking that really works.	The book is very complete and very easy to understand with step by step instructions that don't clog you mind or are hard to remember. Walking is presented as a healthy habit that will ensure a new way of working out and  staying in shape. The book sets you up with valuable information from  choosing the right gear to avoiding injuries to getting fit.  It's a great  book for beginners because it motivates you to start and keep fit without  making it a routine or monotonous experience, helping you move to higher  levels or workouts, while keeping the habit of walking. It makes a great  addition to have along with Nutrition for Dummies and Workouts for Dummies.  --Reviewed by M. E. Volmar	2000-04-09
