US	52778199	R3RLVB346OI4VB	0957985835	836607415	Change of Heart, A	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Delightfully Different and enlightening	If you read a lot of my reviews, you'll quickly find out I'm always on the hunt for a book with something different, something that grabs my attention and holds it until the end of the book.  The biggest factor for me, and lets admit it, most reviewers have some bias, but anyway, what grabs me is something shocking and unexpected, followed closely by an ending I can't readily guess.  A Change of Heart has half of my winning book combination- the unexpected- and this alone kept my interest through the book.  <br /> <br />Ross Crass is an interesting man.  The book opens where he has fallen from a secure kingdom he's built for himself in the literary world to land him squarely in the confines of an urban housing complex.  Not terribly unexpected if you compare Ross to others who are one paycheck away from homelessness, but Ross is different in many ways.  He's white and his attitude is one of disgust for black people.  He would rather die than be in the situation he's in.   If it had not been for Maggie and her grandson Tracie, he very well could have received his wish.  After being brutally attacked one night and Maggie took Ross in and nursed him back to health both physically and mentally.  <br /> <br />Ross' feelings on black people are so negative, he resists Maggie's assistance at first.  During his convalescence he dreams and is approached by a black angel whose duty it is to aid him.  He refuses to accept the angel's aid as well.  Only when he comes to the realization that his upbringing has harmful implications to his present and future situations does he slowly knock down his destructive racist thought patterns and actions.   <br /> <br />As Ross gets closer to Maggie and Tracie, he experiences a true change of heart, which is why this book is missing my other half of the great book equation.  Nonetheless it's an average book to read and enjoy.  Told from a perspective that avid readers don't come across much, A Change of Heart explores topics not readily discussed in open forums or over the dinner table. Expounding on racial matters is a delicate path to tread, but Jermaine Watkins has forged a path to dialogue through a book that contains controversial moments and situations.	2005-06-15
US	52778199	RG35P3DG07MV1	1888842466	327980272	Regular Lu	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Be careful what you wish for	Ever wondered what it would be like to be king or queen?  To have people obey your every command?  Have the power to make things happen?  Well Lu the mouse had these thoughts and his wish came true.    <br />Regular Lu wanted to become extraordinary.  A small creature in the land of the animals, he was tired of going unnoticed and unappreciated so when he became king, a new world was opened to him.  To have the lion, the king of the jungle, bow down to him was awe-inspiring and a totally wonderful experience.  But Lu suddenly experienced a different feeling - loneliness.  It's not always easy to be on the top, for with great power comes great responsibility.   This children's fiction book shares with children the impact of decisions they make.  Each action has an equal and opposite reaction and part of doing what we want to do has to be the acceptance of the reaction. Imaginatively and vibrantly illustrated and told in a manner children of all ages can understand, Regular Lu will be a great addition to a child's library.	2005-06-14
US	52778199	R2GD6KJZIFWI6T	0974209384	89999464	The Life & Times Of Baxter The Bat Dog	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great motivation for young children	The Life and Times of Baxter the Bat Dog is a cute expos into the life of Baxter who experiences several adventures during his life.  Although categorized for the 4 to 8 age group, the size of the book might be overwhelming for a young reader so it is nice that it is broken down into smaller volumes, bound together as one. <br /> <br />Volume One starts off with Baxter being hit by a car.  After being abandoned by his family, a news story sends plenty of people his way, looking to adopt him.  He finds a new and wonderful home with Merry Jones and her two cats.  <br /> <br />Volume Two finds Baxter trick-or-treating for Halloween dressed as a bat.  His pointy ears and black fur make being dressed as a bat the perfect costume for him.  He attends a Halloween party and goes home to share his bounty with Merry's cats. <br /> <br />Volume Three brings Baxter to Christmas and his dilemma on delivering Christmas gifts to Merry and the cats, Cinnamon and Pearly-Mae.  In the end Baxter learns the true meaning of Christmas. <br /> <br />Children and their caretakers will fall in love with Baxter. I hope there is a continuation of the series as it is encouraging to find an example of how to behave from a loveable creature that everybody can envision and relate to.  Written in simple English whether a child is reading or being read to, equal enjoyment can be found in both the pictures and prose.	2005-06-14
US	52778199	R2DTU8Q20ZT6AL	0974770787	30531954	Life Lessons Before "I Do"	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Where was this book before I walked down the aisle?	Life Lessons Before \\"I Do\\" is a wonderful self-help guide for young women who have never been married and are just leaving their parent's house.  Written with love by a mother for her daughter it details the inner conflict young girls experience through searching for and maintaining a healthy loving relationship with a man.  Ms. Little's writing style is such that it invites you to read it in one sitting.  After reading, either keep the book as reference material or pass it on to a young girl who might not have such spiritual guidance in her life.  Actually buy a copy as a gift for her. <br /> <br />I am always impressed when an author shares personal stories.  To me, this addition makes the book more personal.  Such is the case here.  Ms. Little is so concerned with her daughter's future, she is unashamed to share her past in hopes that her daughter doesn't make some of the mistakes she made.  The realism this conveys makes the reader understand that the book could stand to be a couple of chapters longer. <br /> <br />Based on Christian principles, Life Lessons Before \\"I Do\\" is so plainly written,  so no one should have a problem understanding its precise rationale, or the instructions and purpose for marriage as defined by the Holy Bible.  However, if you've been married before or if you are out of college and living on your own, this book might be too \\"elementary\\" for you.  If you are the parent of young girls and are not really sure how to talk to your little women, this book is excellent reference material. <br />	2005-06-14
US	52778199	R17JJ2SMLYWERB	0970698518	262637570	Chicken Wing	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Share with others	Chicken Wing is a perfect story for a child who is enthralled with Grandma and her cooking.  What child isn't?  Chicken Wing brings to life the love Mykala has for her grandma and for her cooking.  Especially when she cooks her favorite dish, Chicken Wings.  Her Grandma has nicknamed Mykala, \\"Chicken Wing\\" and it is so appropriate.  Mykala even shares with others, which is a valuable lesson for people of any age to learn. <br /> <br />Readability is to be noted.  Chicken Wing has colorful illustrations that accompany the story and is sure to be enjoyed bybeginning readers.  A cute second book by author Christine Young-Robinson, Chicken Wing is a welcomed addition to any beginning readers' library.	2005-06-14
US	52778199	RG1VTZFP2JSBK	0964086867	15724547	On this Beautiful Island	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Beautiful and Educational Children's Book	What a beautiful book!  I want to use the book as a coffee table book, matter of fact, its on my coffee table now because the illustrations are striking and the book is informative, well researched and entertaining.  Although classified for the 9 to 12 year old reader, a younger reader will enjoy looking at the pictures and, with instruction, can play the enclosed game. The author defines and provides pronunciation hints for unfamiliar words.  An adult is guaranteed to expand their knowledge of an ancient culture and time period.  This is truly a book to be enjoyed by the entire family. <br /> <br />On a Beautiful Island captures a day in the life of Taino, a Puerto Rican boy who lived some 500 years ago.  His adventures bring to life a culture strong in family, faith and society.  Each person in the tribe has a role and a responsibility to each other and to nature.  The writing is lyrical, the illustrations are colorful while the overall tone is light and joyful.   <br />	2005-06-14
US	52778199	RVVQ52J03DLPF	0393059073	217778108	M-A-C-N-O-L-I-A	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Unique Poety	I am thoroughly impressed that a book of poetry so succinctly captures the life of one person.  A. Van Johnson tells the story of 13-year-old MacNolia Cox, the first African American finalist in the National Spelling Bee.  Unfortunately MacNolia didn't win; she was given a word not on the official list and this left her profoundly wounded.  So much so, that through these poems, one can experience the pain she suffers for 40 years after the contest. <br /> <br />The poems chronicle her life and explore the fact of how her dreams were predicated on and dashed over because of this traumatic event in her life.  She had hopes of becoming a doctor, but seemed to have lost her desire after losing the contest.  She married a man named John and seemed to exist in obscurity.  Her son went to Vietnam but was killed in service so another wound was delivered to MacNolia.   She was best described at one point as \\"The almost national spelling bee champion, almost a doctor, wife, mother, grandmother and the best maid in town.\\"  What a wide-ranging description. <br /> <br />Various types and meter of poetry are included in this book.  The combination of these varied kinds in a story is notable and remarkable.  I would like to read more works of poetry of this caliber in the future. <br />	2005-01-18
US	52778199	RRP39UF0IOHGF	1593090366	148315403	Every Woman's Man	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Not What the Title Suggests - Better	Devin Alexander is a man who cannot commit.  He's been deeply scarred and although he knows how to treat a woman, the ultimate commitment a woman would want, eludes him.  In Every Woman's Man, Devin's life is examined in both abstract and concrete terms. <br /> <br />Gabrielle, Maggie, and Kim have all been, at different times, romantic interests of Devin's.  These three ladies all shared a part of themselves with Devin, and each expected his love in return.  He showered them with lavish attention, gifts, and companionship but he was unable to even so much as utter the \\"L\\" word to them.  Among his admirable qualities, he was able to be upfront and open with the women from the very beginning.  Even though each lady accepted his honesty, all secretly hoped they would be the one to change him. <br /> <br />As he progressed from relationship to relationship, he accepted his wounds and to a degree nursed them.  He was aware of his inability to fully give himself to a woman, but didn't quite know how to get over the hurdle. When Sophia came into his life things changed.  Sophia had an uncontrollable power over Devin that neither fully understood, but their bond was unmistakable and undeniable.   <br /> <br />The sex scenes in Every Woman's Man were hot, I've got to give it to Rique, he can stir up the juices while weaving a story.  But I must say his ability to tell a story was even better than the scenes.  Judging a book by its title isn't the best, because one assumes from this title, Devin would be an eligible player. As you read, you discover Devin was a man who simply hadn't faced his demons. Will he ever be able to conquer his fears? <br />	2005-01-18
US	52778199	R1RJ37PJLEAD8A	0974363685	342702466	The Womanizers	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Three men and their ladies	Mike, Max and Ahmad are friends for life.  They've been together for a long time and they share their lives with each other. The Womanizers is a book about these three men and their relationships with their wives and other women.     <br /> <br />Mike is the ladies man, a police officer by day who prefers to impose his own sexual sentences on women he meets who have committed the crime of being fine.  One problem, his wife Mya sits at home knowing full well what her husband is doing while he's away.   <br /> <br />Max is the music mogul who is tasked by his wife Trina to pursue his dreams.  She can handle the bills and encourages Max to do what he needs to do to get his business off the ground and running.  While he's home all day, he has ample opportunity to pursue other romantic avenues.  Unfortunately, he finds himself romantically involved with Sharon, his mother-in-law, and this quickly turns into an opportunity for blackmail. <br /> <br />Ahmad is every woman's dream.  He's an attentive, caring husband and adoring father to his newborn daughter.  Unfortunately, his wife Shay refuses to provide him with sex and he's described himself as a born again virgin.  At first he thought he understood her hesitation, especially since she has recently given birth, but as it goes on and on, he finds himself in the arms of Mya. <br /> <br />Enough drama to keep you on the edge of your seat, you'll soon be caught up in the lives of these three men.  A very quick read, though nothing really thought-provoking, I think Dwayne Joseph has done a good job of taking a snapshot into the lives of womanizers -- all of them -- and fleshing out the cause and effect of this kind of maligned behavior.   <br />	2005-01-18
US	52778199	R2UX0H8JAJNWQ4	0375508708	391399414	Angel of Harlem: A Novel (Strivers Row)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A True Angel	May Edward Chinn was the first black female doctor in Harlem.  The Angel of Harlem is an accounting of the trials she experienced, through childhood, schooling and adulthood to reach this lofty accomplishment.  Beautifully written, it seems that Kuwana Haulsey has captured the essence of such a historical figure in this fictional adaptation of her life.  I'm so intrigued; I would like to follow up with researching Dr. Chinn to enhance my knowledge of another important progenitor in African American History. <br /> <br />As a child, May was the apple of her mother's eye.  I was impressed that she was able to achieve solely on the great sacrifices her mother made for her education and social upbringing.  Her father, sometimes in and out of the home, if anything was the catalyst to make her achieve high marks in her every effort.  The relationships between her mother and father along with her own relationship with her father could best be described as strained.  Her mother worked numerous jobs sometimes simultaneously to afford to keep May in a good educational environment.  Her mother encouraged and praised her at every milestone.   <br /> <br />As she progressed through school, sometimes attending private institutions, teachers and other prominent people recognized ambition and encouraged her potential. Truly demonstrating that people generally care and can look past color.  The people who crossed May's path were truly extraordinary as well.  Paul Roberson, Zora Neale Hurston, and Langston Hughes were some of those prominent people who were her running buddies during the Harlem Renaissance. She experienced many hurts through her life, including several failed romances.  I was struck with her persistence and transcendence through an unparalleled life. <br /> <br />Ms. Haulsey writes beautifully.  The Angel of Harlem is a wonderful blend of excellent writing, strong characterization and impressive research.  Dr. Chinn is truly an example for women to follow.  Althoughset in the early 1920's, most of the doors she forced open are being held open by African American women who still feel they have to strive twice as hard to be accepted.  Reading books like this encourages us all to believe that soon those doors will swing on welcome hinges for future generations. This book should be counted amongst required reading for African American literature or history classes. <br />	2005-01-18
US	52778199	R1TPXPJB6DCLAS	1593090323	615841193	Azùcar Moreno	Books	3	0	3	N	N	An Ideal three Star Read	Nikki Moreno has come to a crossroad in her life.  She's gainfully employed and lives with her cousin Rosie in the house her grandmother left her in Detroit.  She doesn't have the problems associated with having children and no baby daddy around, yet she's still not content.  Her goal is to be an actress, but she lacks the will to leave what she knows and venture into uncharted territory.  At 26 years old and constantly thwarted from pursuing her dream by well-intentioned parents, she's just going through the motions of life not enjoying the moment.  That is until her first lover returns.   <br /> <br />Mario has been living in California for a number of years pursuing his dreams as a writer.  He comes back to Detroit on occasion to be around his family and this particular trip, announce that he's been hired into his dream job.  Hopefully he can convince Nikki to pursue her acting where the movies are - California.    She agrees to move but frets on how to tell her totalitarian father, or her cousin Rosie because the relationship she's formed with her over the years has them bound like sisters. <br /> <br />I'm not sure how best to characterize this book.  It had all the elements of a story: plot, dimensional characters, and though I'm not sadistic, I was pleased to see that some things don't have a particularly joyous ending, as some of the more climatic moments attest to.  It was even a super quick read which would lend to the thought that it was so enjoyable I couldn't put it down.  Instead I found it full of fluff more than anything. Quite simply, this is a book to put under your belt as a writer.  I hope there is potential for a storyteller with any future books.   I probably would have enjoyed the story better had its main focus been on Rosie.  Her character was more vibrant than Nikki, her life experiences more engaging and she just appealed to me more in this era of street literature, which we are in.  I can see another book from Ms. Halima where she has ample opportunity to follow Rosie's course through life.   <br />	2005-01-06
US	52778199	R15H0NM09GEOK9	0974171425	831452813	The Hamptons	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A summer read worth reading anytime	Joelle Sinclair is a recent divorcee who is looking for a more relaxing change of pace from her life in Manhattan.  Her sister owns a place in the Hamptons and has graciously allowed Joelle to move in.  Leaving her job as an event planner at a posh art gallery, a glowing recommendation allows her the opportunity to gain employment at the Kenneth Oberlin Gallery.  She's immediately immersed in the work of planning an elite party for the Gallery a day before the close of \\"the season\\" where all the who's who of society can be expected to attend. Thoroughly suited for the job, Joelle manages to plan a party and snag a handsome and charming suitor. <br /> <br />Jabari Mitchell is his name.  A partner in a prestigious firm in Manhattan, Jabari sets his sights on chic Joelle.  Their romance is whirlwind, especially since he's just visiting and she has no plans on returning to the city.  She's skeptical at first but within the course of three days, their courtship grows.  One problem though, is Jabari who he claims to be?  Joelle has the wherewithal to have him investigated, especially after coming through a deceptive marriage, but will she like the results? <br /> <br />The shocking twist made this light and airy read go lightening fast.  One and a half hours and 148 pages later, I was done.  Well suited for a leisurely afternoon read, I think Grosvenor fans will be well pleased with this book.  I'll be honest; the entire time I was reading I had visions of the movies \\"The Inkwell\\" or \\"The Wedding\\".  I don't think this was entirely a bad thing, but I also couldn't help but see the similarities between them.  It was a nice continuation of the perceived lives of upwardly mobile African Americans- with a decidedly different twist.  I enjoyed The Hamptons and although I'm late in reviewing the book, hopefully it will have a revival for the upcoming summer, light reading season. There were a few moments when tense changed, but I think you can get caught up in the read to breezeright through these snafus and enjoy the story. The Hamptons is a romance novel with an exciting, tantalizing spin, which will capture any reader. <br />	2005-01-06
US	52778199	R25QLFRCASH36Q	0743477146	675408189	Let the Church Say Amen	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Family Conflict- Family Resolution	Even the pastor's family isn't perfect.  Ministers are human after all, and I'm glad this fictional account of a pastor's family has been written in a humorously entertaining way.  Let the Church Say Amen chronicles the life of Rev. Simon Jackson and his esteemed pastorate at Zion Hill.  He's proud of his accomplishments; growing his small congregation into a larger well-respected praise edifice.  Zion Hill has appeared in the newspaper over 27 times and Rev. Jackson has been largely responsible since his total devotion is to his church.  Unfortunately his dedication isn't to his family, which is running amok without his leadership at home.   I'm not quite sure how to take the docile wife and mother Loretta.  In some instances she seems to be the glue that holds the family together but her children David, Jonathan and Regina disrespect her just as much as they do their father. By the time the story takes place, the children are grown and have issues of their own.  David a promising football star is injured and resorts to drugs and stealing from the Sunday morning collection plate to feed his habit.  Regina, 19 and has two children out of wedlock, is so hung up on a man, I cringed to read what tactic she was going to employ next in an attempt to win him back.  Jonathan, the apple of his father's eye, has graduated from college and is considering theological school, but his father's dreams aren't what he wants for his life.   Through the perils of a life at home and the stellar work of the church, Rev. Jackson doesn't have it as well put together as he imagines.  His wife is ill, and since he's always taken advantage of her Christian duty to be submissive to him, he pays her condition no attention.  He's written off David--no longer allowing him in the house or access to any of their funds and he's thoroughly disgusted with Regina. He doesn't think his congregation knows about life at home or that they are conspiring to put him out.  As Let the Church Say Amen progresses, there are some very poignant moments.  I couldn't put the book down and read it in less than 4 hours. Its good to know pastors and their families are like yours and mine.	2004-12-08
US	52778199	RJWVG8YI1FQBB	0767915704	749558186	Sunday Brunch: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Christian Fiction- A well written Novel	Although placed in the General Fiction genre, I feel that Sunday Brunch is best categorized as Christian Fiction. As such, I think this book could hold its own in a book discussion of a church book club, and it comes conveniently packaged with discussion questions and creative tips for discussion at the end.  While I felt the storyline has been done before-probably because I read extensively-I liked how it was done. I liked the inclusion of prayers and scripture in the day-to-day lives of the characters, but if you're not a Christian this might be over the top for you.     Five friends, who met in law school, get together every Sunday after church for brunch.  This is an opportunity for Lexi, Capri, Jewel, Jermane and Angel to catch up on the events of their week, and talk through their situations.  Each lady is an individual with her own unique set of problems but feel confident enough in their friendship to be candid.  The storyteller Lexi keeps this story moving.  She is searching for a closer walk with God. She is portrayed as the one who keeps this camaraderie flowing.  She is called upon by all of her friends and she takes each of their issues to heart and prays constantly for them. Although it appears her prayers are answered for things in her friends' lives, she believes her own needs aren't being met but she remains vigilant in her faith.   Capri is the standoffish member of the brunch bunch.  She's been emotionally scarred but her friends encourage her to explore a relationship; it's okay for her to let her guard down concerning love.  Jewel is the extrovert in the bunch. Egregious and effervescent, she's considered \\"over the top\\" but what would a circle of friends be without the self-centered but loveable member.  She too is searching for love, but not with a brother who does not have a bank account to back it.  Angel is reserve.  She doesn't attend church, feeling mainly that church folks are hypocrites but she doesn't knock her friend's choices.  Lexi feels that she must convert Angel, but must do so in a non-preachy way.  Angel has health problems and most of the book, if the reader feels any concern or bonding with the characters, Angel garners this feeling.  Jermane, the last of the ladies, is probably the most sheltered.  She's married to Rex, an attorney in her father's law office, and who feels he must spend time working to impress his father-in-law and not his wife.  Jermane feels alone and while she has this circle of friends, they aren't exactly the company she desires.   As the lives of these five women unfolds around the buffet, I gained a better understanding of what it is to be a friend.  Though each woman was varied in her life experiences, the common bonds of friendship and the inclusion of God as a problem solver, listening ear, shoulder to cry on, and the sixth friend at the table made Sunday Brunch an enjoyable read. While not a caution for the next reader, I do think, this book would better be marketed to the Christian-Fiction reader.  <br />	2004-12-08
US	52778199	RDOUN7CEFCIFG	0451213246	24617410	Gets No Love	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Characters With Heart	There is something mysterious about New Orleans and because of its cloak of secrecy I'm always enthralled to read books where the scene is set in the Big Easy.  I think a much truer picture is cast when a resident writes the book, then you get an accurate feeling of the atmosphere.  But this book isn't about New Orleans its about love.  It's not a sappy romance, its real.  It's not urban or street, but it has grit. It has the development of plot that a seasoned reader can appreciate.  No stone is left unturned, yet the book is a quick enjoyable read.  Eric Pete has penned another award winning book.  <br /> <br />The protagonist Lance is heartsick.  The love of his life called off their engagement and he's pining the loss.  His best friend Akhet, the local rapper also known as AK is motivating Lance to carry on.  He wasn't that crazy about the ex-fianc anyway and hopes that his childhood friend can get over her.  Lance has already left the bad boy persona to become a respectable business owner and is very supportive of Akhet's career.  Unfortunately the past isn't always easy to escape.  <br /> <br />Akhet is haunted by his past.  Lance and he share a deadly secret.  Lance supports Akhet through the bad dreams and hopes he will one day be able to confront his demons and do the right thing.  Finally Akhet has had enough.  Relying on his street sense he makes drastic moves in his career and seeks to clean up his mistake.  Meanwhile, Lance is steadily working on fixing his relationship.  Soon both men rectify their situations in dramatic fashion.    <br /> <br />Action packed, Gets No Love, will garner the readers' attention.  This is a book with wide appeal to a myriad of readers.  There is something for everybody and a lesson to be learned too.  Perseverance, trust and honesty go a long way.  True friendship is pure joy and love is a powerful emotion.	2004-11-30
US	52778199	R6ROGTSLKPA1F	1593090188	483219340	Pretenses	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A villan you love to hate	Whew!  I'm going to write something I normally don't write in a published review and proclaim Pretenses as one of the best books I've read in 2004.  Don't take my recommendation lightly.  I don't normally extol the virtues of books to this extent, but prior to reading Pretenses, there wasn't a need.  Now that I have, I think if you read the book, you'll most likely feel the same way.  <br /> <br />Meet Coco Nimburo, a deadly hired assassin, who is honest to a fault, but as lethal as a ticking time bomb.  Crossing paths with Coco is like writing a blank check for which your life is the surety of the bond.  Murders are being committed in our nation's capital and FBI Special Agent Phoenix Perry has been assigned, as well as recommended, by the President to get to the bottom of the assassinations.  Phoenix and Coco will cross paths.   <br /> <br />Nothing is average about Coco.  She's skilled in the martial arts and studied with the best Eastern culture has to offer.  She's fluent in several languages, a master of disguise, well disciplined and patient.  She's highly skilled in the art of acupuncture. She's also a nymphomaniac.  A loner by nature, her resume is top notch.  Phoenix, Coco's natural nemesis, is equally as gifted in the arts, they are like yin and yang.  <br /> <br />On top of the murders there is a serial rapist with some 67 male victims, which must be dealt with.  Phoenix and her partner have this series of crimes in the back of their mind too.  Could the two possibly be connected? As these two government agents fall into the abyss of high profile murders, and a savage rapist, Coco set her sights on them.  Phoenix knows who their perpetrator is but she's elusive and they can't seem catch her.  <br /> <br />The research the author puts forth and dedication to his craft shows brightly. The reader will be so totally engrossed in the story, it will be difficult to put down. This is hardly the book to sit down and pick up later.  I caution you against readingthis book when you have an impending important appointment- you just might miss it.  If Keith Lee Johnson doesn't hook you by page 33, this genre isn't for you.	2004-11-30
US	52778199	R31RON5K96KSGK	075820471X	766805324	Distant Lover	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Gloria Mailette followers must add this to their collection	Gloria Mallette's sixth novel, Distant Lover, looks at the effects of love on children as they mature into adults.  Meet Tandi, a wife and mother.  She seems to have the life her friends can only dream about but Tandi is in turmoil. Her marriage is on the verge of destruction, her husband Jared cheated on her several years ago and Tandi can't forget it.  Her father Sporty, who was a single parent, is a crotchety old man who is bitter and treats Tandi worse than imaginable. Tandi's older brother Glynn hasn't the time or inclination to listen to anything she says. As a result, Tandi longs for love from someplace.  <br /> <br />Tandi is fighting depression, disillusionment and pent up anger.  She longs for her life to be different in some way.  She makes seemingly positive and negative changes.  She leaves Jared and takes their son MJ. In her haste to depart she winds up moving in with Sporty.  He suffers a stroke, so her quick place to stay becomes more permanent. Glynn is only helpful finding a nursing agency that will place home health aides in the home to relieve Tandi of some of the burden, stress and responsibility.  Sporty runs the great majority of them off.  Even in his stricken stage, he's intimidating and ruthless.  He eventually meets his match and is introduced to an aide who can handle him, with her mere presence right when Tandi can take it no longer.  Tandi is amazed at the change in Sporty upon meeting this new aide.  <br /> <br />In the midst of it all, Tandi reminisces on how life could have been and wonders what her first love, Brent can bring to her life.  Ironically, he has returned to town after two wives and two-kids and has settled back into the swing of things. Tandi and Brent attempt to rekindle their old flame.  Is this what she truly wants?  Is this how life should have been for her?  <br /> <br />Distant Lover covers a lot of territory through well-paced plot and character development.  Through Tandi's entire journey to self-acceptance, Ifelt the realness in her persona.  Gloria Mallette has crafted yet another memorable novel.	2004-11-17
US	52778199	R3OADVPNZC7R5S	0975413007	446316817	The Things I Could Tell You!	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Think about your actions-they effect others.	The Things I Could Tell You is a moving expose' of the dramatic effects of domestic violence on its silent witnesses, the children.  This is the story of sixteen year-old Cameron and his younger sister Andrea.  They too feel the affects of abuse as they witness their father Ramon both verbally and physically assault their mother Anna. Cameron tells the story from his point of view. <br /> <br />Cameron was too young to protect his mother from the rages of his father.  By the time his mother gained the mental and physical strength to move away from his father it was almost too late.  Ramon tried to kill his mother and Cameron witnessed this brutality.  They moved to Memphis and assumed a new identity hoping to erase the past and begin life again.  Andrea, at the time too young to fully understand, desperately wished for her father and contacted him, against her mothers' request, while he was still in prison.  The plot progresses and the effects of such violence are played out through each of the central characters. <br /> <br />I was most impressed with this book.  The author JL Woodson, a teenager, has amazing talent.  I cannot stress how much I think this book is wonderfully written and then to see such work at the pen of a teenager means that he can only go higher from this point.  As a teenage author, I was inclined to believe this was a true personal account but was assured that the author did not personally experience such horrors.  However, his intimate knowledge of domestic violence and vivid realism shines through in this novel.  It is my hope that no one has to experience what any of these characters faced, but it is my prayer that if you do, you remain strong and of good courage and become proactive in combating these acts.  The Things I Could Tell You is a book I want to share with my teenage book club as well as the accompanying adult book club at my church.  There are lessons to be learned from both a child and adult perspective and this is just the type of book to encourage open dialogue.   <br />	2004-10-20
US	52778199	R1BSHDIS97Z7L7	0595308872	578664029	Insight	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Being blind doesn't mean you can't see	Insight is a wonderfully written novel that will leave you spellbound from the very first sentence until the last page.  I was immediately drawn into Samantha's life.  Samantha is a woman who was blinded in a terrible accident, which claimed the life of her mother.  Though blind, she maintains a psychic and visual connection with Rachel, who lives on the other coast and whom Samantha has never met.  Samantha \\"sees\\" the tragedy, which befalls Rachel and thus starts out on a quest to catch a killer. <br />Logic would dictate that a blind woman couldn't be an eyewitness to a crime as heinous as this, but once you start reading, you soon realize there is truth in the statement \\"more than meets the eye.\\"  Samantha's journey to New York from California, where she leaves the over protectiveness of her father and brother, opens an entirely new world for her.  She's never been to New York but she's intimately familiar with her surroundings.  She moves into Rachel's apartment with the blessings of the kind elderly neighbor/owner who confirms that Rachel had visions of Samantha as well.  Because of Samantha's brother Tim and his childhood friend Brian, who is a New York detective assigned to work Rachel's case, Samantha thrusts herself into solving the case.  Meanwhile, Tim is worried about his sister and he and his father hop a plane to New York.  Brian is falling in love with Samantha and will do anything he can to protect her and she's oblivious to all of this concern, wanting desperately to figure out her own psychic connection to Rachel.   <br />Insight has a little of every genre in this fast paced read.  Murder, mystery, intrigue, romance, and drama all intertwined around strong family bonds.  Most impressive is the way Ms. McGee kept the story flowing and the sleuth in me, solved the mystery and second-guessed myself at every page turn.  Once I started, I couldn't put the book down and this is what truly makes a book wonderful to read.  I understand that Ms. McGee hasmany more books coming out.  I hope she receives the acclaim she deserves and that her future works have the same quality of excitement Insight has delivered. <br />	2004-10-18
US	52778199	R3L8PL1FA875NI	0446500089	428903651	Sweet Bye-Bye: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Who is this geared for?	The debut novel by Denise Michelle Harris captures and combines chick-lit and Christian fiction.  I'm still debating whether or not I like the way her mix turned out and I'm truly not thrilled with the title and how it plays into the overall plot of the story.  I think Ms. Harris is a talented writer but I can't help but wonder if she was pressured into the Christian Fiction genre for one reason or another. While I realize being Christian doesn't supercede being human, the actions of the protagonist often left me shaking my head in shock, disgust and disbelief. I'm debating about sharing it with my book club of teen readers at church or making a push for it at some point, with my book club of adult women.  Sweet Bye-Bye hasn't defined a clear reader's niche. <br />The plot and premise behind the storyline didn't thrill me.  Chantell is a twenty-something young lady who prides herself in her sense of style, material goods and her good-looking fianc'.  No substance, just shellac, but amazingly she seems to be on top of her game at work.  That is, until her nemesis tries to use her method and motive against her.  Things turn ugly.  Chantell is forced to look past the exterior, purchased perfections and face her ugly inner feelings.  When her father suffers a near fatal heart attack, Chantell turns toward God.  To honor her prayer request she vows to get her life in order and seeks both her childhood church and professional counsel.  Though she suffered tragic incidents in her past she's finally able to open up and talk about them along with rekindling a relationship that was snuffed out before it had a chance to begin.  I can't help but think this story line has been done before, but I thought the characterizations were well written.  Chantell was memorable because she was someone I couldn't agree with. <br />Sweet Bye-Bye is a well-written book.  I think readers are looking for non-traditional takes on traditional themes.  There was an equal a sense of  \\"been there -done that\\" as there was exciting variation, which is the only thing that compelled me to keep reading.  I think if Ms. Harris' book is to do well, or if a second book is forthcoming, a more specific target for the reading audience should be defined. <br />	2004-10-07
US	52778199	RMYTGJ560DIDI	0974154407	78184734	My Brand New Leg	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very insightful and well written book about abilities	My Brand New Leg is an excellent way of introducing children 9-12 to differently enabled individuals.  Wonderfully illustrated, the characters are introduced to a girl who has a prosthetic leg and can do everything her newfound friends can do.  While nameless and colorless, the main character gracefully shares her abilities with others and never once expresses a difference.  As she encounters new activities, her friends see that she is no different.   The moral of the story is aptly suited to readers of all ages.	2004-10-05
US	52778199	R1BAQN82PC0BZO	045120977X	542954845	Why Sleeping Dogs Lie	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Excellent Solo Effort	The title is catchy isn't it?  This alone made me curious as to why such a devilishly handsome man and his svelte companion would be gracing the cover of a book so titled.  Eagerly I picked up Why Sleeping Dogs Lie, to see what lay between the pages.  I was impressed with what I read.  Author Tracie Howard, has done it again.  <br /> <br />Mallory Baylor has a secret.  Forced to leave Atlanta, with a stop over in Philadelphia, she ends up as a staff writer in New York writing for their hip magazine, Heat.  While on assignment to interview the cover story for this particular month's edition, Mallory comes face to face with a blast from her past, Saxton McKensie.  Saxton, former ball player now top executive of a Media Relations Firm, Ingram Enterprises, is set to become an even more powerful mogul when he marries Deena Ingram. His story is notable and while Mallory has her doubts about seeing Saxton again, she does a wonderful job on the interview.  <br /> <br />Saxton is elated to see Mallory again.  Plus he's impressed with her article and decides she would make a great edition to their company.  Mallory isn't all too thrilled about working so close to Saxton in light of their past, but decides the compensation is worth the switch.  Sounds cookie cutter so far?  I invite you to read Why Sleeping Dogs Lie.  Mallory's roommate and Deena are enough to keep the drama going. You've yet to uncover the secret and the cast of supporting characters are so tightly intermingled that you'll be on the edge of your seat completely to the end.  <br /> <br />Tracie Howard has co-authored two books and has done right stepping forward on her own and molding her craft.  Why Sleeping Dogs Lie is well-written and I hope this will not be her last solo effort.	2004-10-05
US	52778199	R202KKEO6R5ODX	0312323344	227674990	He Had It Coming	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Wacky, Zany, Hilarious	Whew!!!  It is only a matter of time before He Had It Coming.  Meet Marcus Brooks, a narcissistic, deeply scared, egotistical, plain out and out- no good man   Did I mention he is also an author who thinks he looks good and doesn't need women, of all people, to buy his books?  He further infuriates his loyal readers by using a single word, that's so cruel, as the title of his latest contribution to the literary world.  Women everywhere begin to boycott and protest so loudly his agent practically begs him to rename his book and the publisher flat out refuses to move forward with publishing his book.  <br /> <br />Let's meet the Second Pew Book Club.  Five women- Raylene, Thelma, Latice, Naomi and Gwena- who attend the same church in Dallas and get together on Friday nights to discuss books and their lives.  The worlds of Marcus and the book club are destined to collide in the most unimaginable way...during an outing to a Friday night concert.  <br /> <br />When the dust settles, the Second Pew Book Club is holding Marcus captive.  The antics that followed kept my eyes glued to the pages, as I read.  The intermingling of the lives of the women and the delusional nature of Mr. Brooks' thoughts concerning women made He Had It Coming both comical and slightly distressing. The longer this best selling author remained prisoner to this book club the more complicated the entire situation became.  If other books written by Camika Spencer are anything like this one, the reader will be thoroughly entertained.  <br />	2004-10-05
US	52778199	R2ZQPRRJTDZISA	0974518824	168523081	Small Packages	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Excellent Writing- A Story within a Story	I was thoroughly impressed with the writing ability of Sydney Molare in Small Packages.  Though it might seem a tad bit confusing at first, the concept of writing a story within a story was perfectly executed.  That alone made the story interesting, the cast of characters made the story intriguing, and the story within the story, made the book irresistible; I couldn't put it down.  <br /> <br />The Somebody Holla! Book club is composed of four friends who get together once a month to read a book, discuss it and have a sleep over.  The next day the ladies go on a shopping spree.  Although from different backgrounds, it is through these gatherings they get to learn more about each other.  The book selection for this month is a manuscript by Sydney Molare entitled Small Packages.  <br /> <br />The protagonist, Analisa, is celebrating her birthday and receives a \\"massager\\" from her best friend and the story builds from there. While putting her gift to work and with no curtains up in her window, her neighbor Chance enjoys the view.  He comes knocking on her door and becomes her knight in shining armor and an affair is born.  Every woman should have a friend that comes in a small package that delivers larger rewards.  The seamless back and forth banter from the friends as they interact with this manuscript can't be duplicated.  This is truly one that you have to read and experience for yourself.  <br /> <br />Small Packages can be a bit racy at times but what is a book without a page-turner?  It is different in that there was spice from both the story and the story within.  I wish that more of the club's banter had been discussed.  Some of the members of the club had real life issues and I think if my face-to-face book club is any example, we stop to listen to what our group members have to say and respond to their needs. This would have made the book club a little more realistic.  Without question, I suggest you place Small Packages on your reading list.  You won't be disappointed.  <br />	2004-10-05
US	52778199	RC1NZJ8W8GZE2	0970976429	834731198	Fruity Fur	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Bedtime Story with a moral	Fruity Fur is such a cute, delightful story to share at bedtime for children too young to read but who will be delighted to see the pictures and grasp the concept of disobedience. Clee, the naughty dog, has found himself in trouble big time.  His desire to eat from the garden and eat everything he can get his paws around has caused him to uncover magical fruit.  Every time he eats this fruit, no matter what kind it is, it appears in his fur and he's helpless to stop it.   <br /> <br />Fruity Fur is a classic rhyming tale; the pace will delight the child as they hear the story being read. Beginning readers might have a difficult time pronouncing different fruits as they are written but should be able to recognize the pictures of various fruits as they read.  The lesson learned, don't eat everything you see, is creatively presented when Clee learns it is better to listen and eat only what he's supposed to and he'll be a much happier puppy.   <br />	2004-09-13
US	52778199	R1B1RP9X2T1JBY	0970976410	403047250	What's Wrong with Telling a Lie? / Pet Detectives Pinkie and Binkie: The Case of the Missing Pie	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The gift of inspiring children	What's Wrong with Telling a Lie? is a modern adaptation of The Boy Who Cried Wolf.  We all know the story yet children can experience it in different way through reading this one.  Complete with questions for discussion and activities for your young one, this is a quick way of teaching children that it is best to tell the truth, no matter what the consequence. <br /> <br />It is fine to encourage children to explore their imagination and the age groups of four(4) to eight (8) certainly can embellish their imaginations.  Although it is important to stress what creativity is upon this age group, stories becomes lies when they knowingly claim a made up story as true.  While reading about the adventures of Jaime a child can see that such made up things are fun for a while but when your baby brother is really not where he's supposed to be, things can get scary really quick.  What's Wrong with Telling A Lie? compares activities so that the line is clear between reality and imagination. <br /> <br />Pet Detective Binkie has to investigate what has happened to Ma Rabbit's cherry pie.  She baked three and placed them in the windowsill to cool.  When she returned there were only two pies left.  What happened to the third pie is a mystery Binkie must solve.  His investigation led him to his sister Pinkie, and then to Papa Rabbit, then to their dog named Keith.  All of the clues surrounding the missing pie point to Keith but even he's clear when he admits to only drinking the kool-aid.  As the story progresses Binkie doesn't leave a stone unturned, he investigates Mr. Ratty, Mr. Birdie and Hip Hop Rabbit.  Where has the cherry pie gone? <br /> <br />There are two sets of discussion questions for age groups three to five (3-5) and six to eight (6-8), which parents can discuss with their children.  The Pet Detectives creatively tackle the issue of stealing in a mystery, which children can understand.  As your children investigate the crime they learn that stealing isn't cool at all. <br />	2004-09-13
US	52778199	R35DSPT5NP8K5I	0970976402	359504908	Can Broken Wings Still Fly?	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Share with your Teens	Can Broken Wings Still Fly? touches upon a subject many people don't discuss.  HIV/AIDS is admittedly a sensitive subject that people are uncomfortable engaging in dialogue about so this book for teenagers is well received and should be read by teens, discussed with their parents and shared with others. Author Damita Shaw is a dynamic public speaker.  Her passion for her work of writing positive stories for both children and teens is reflective both in her oral and written presentations <br /> <br />Meet Tauryn  Miller and Sasha Campbell, two sisters who are sharing a potentially horrible secret.  Tauryn fears her one time sexual encounter with a guy who has contracted HIV might have given this disease to her.  She confides in her older sister Sasha and together they explore the disease and experience the testing process and the agonizing wait for test results.  The bonds of siblings, the love of family and trust in one another pave the way for Tauryn to be honest with her actions and face her fears and stand the consequences. <br /> <br />Can Broken Wings Still Fly? is a valuable teaching tool for teens.  The easy writing style, and the in depth look at a horrific disease without a \\"preachy\\" nature will encourage teens to read and pass along to their friends.  Parents can learn how to better communicate with teens during difficult time period in their lives by taking time to read this book as well.  The two poems, which are an added bonus, also accentuate the point.   <br />	2004-09-13
US	52778199	RXC6T4J4W3E6T	0974595152	826616862	Let's Keep This Secret	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent Children''s Fiction	Set during slavery, Annie is given her first job in the big house.  Her mother has instructed her to fan little Miss Emma while she is sleeping.  However Annie soon discovers that Miss Emma prefers to read while she is supposed to be taking a nap.  <br /> <br />During this time in history, it was illegal to teach a slave to read but it seems Miss Emma was unaware of the law and thought that her friend Annie should listen to the books and learn to read them herself.  This is a huge secret to keep but one the girls are delighted to share. Annie is so thrilled with what she's learned and since she shares a close bond with her father, she confides in him.  What will happen when the secret is no more?  <br /> <br />A simple book for ages 4-8, Lets Keep This Secret is a valuable teaching tool.  Readers of this age can understand the negative effects of slavery as well as the innocence of children.  Further reading discovers that this little book reflects on the positive effects of strong family bonds and shares historical accuracies.  This is the first in a series of books, which reflect on children from diverse backgrounds getting along even when adults refuse to do so.  The history lesson is an added bonus.	2004-09-09
US	52778199	R2O8HC8JSPDZ1R	076791564X	436102839	Floating: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Acceptance is peace	Shanna Washington, the protagonist in Floating, is on a continuous journey to find her true self. A biracial child of an upwardly mobile mother and a working class father, she discovers from an early age she doesn't fit in. Floating is a three part study of self- acceptance and of those around her.The writing style of Floating is lyrical. The chapters are short - sometimes only a page or two, which eases in the comprehension of this novel. It also demonstrates to me a much deeper look into Shanna's psyche. As the reader explores the three sections, between, black and white, Shanna shares how one overlaps the others. She experiences a detached relationship with her father. Her relationship with her mother is strained at best when she abandons her daughter and husband to return to her upper class world. Entering college her relationship with boyfriend Lionel is tumultuous too. His expectations and her reality aren't the same. Everyone has separate motives for caring about her and struggles to see her as a whole person with a unique set of characteristics. She seeks to float above the stereotypes people have concerning biracial individuals.Floating is a book to sit back and contemplate. Because the chapters are so short, we get only a snapshot into Shanna's life. This is a very quick read but takes much longer to digest. I'm sure I've missed nuances of meaning along the way so this is a book that will probably get a rare re-read from me. I want to make sure I've understood all the author is conveying. I also think this is a worthy discussion book and the accompanying reader's companion asks insightful questions to further promote intelligent dialogue.	2004-08-29
US	52778199	R1WX1SVQ3749VD	0736911537	295046092	The DIVA Principle®: Secrets to Divine Inspiration for Victorious Attitude	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Are You a Diva?	What is a Diva?  Michelle McKinney Hammond takes us back in time to answer this question.  In her acrostic, DIVA stands for Divine Inspiration for Victorious Attitude and The Diva Principle explores several Diva's in the bible.  These are women who personify humanness as well as possessing divine qualities.  Women who we should choose to emulate on our faith walk. <br />  <br />The Diva Principle examines nine women in the bible.  Some of these women I had peripheral knowledge of so it was good to have this book explain their lives in greater detail.  Each character study is an in depth look at their strengths, weaknesses and the touch that made each one a diva.  Ruth, for example is praised for her strength during loss and her ability to recover and prosper gracefully.  She gladly stays with her mother-in-law after the death of her husband and dedicates her life to caring for her.  She didn't go back to her country where they worship idols.  Her reward is a caring husband who provides for her and her former mother-in-law as if she is his own mother.  Ruth's initial vow is simple: Where you go, I will go and your god will be my God.  Other women in the bible were highlighted with the intent of uncovering their attitude of quiet but powerful strength no matter what the situation.    <br />  <br />The Diva Principle is a self-esteem builder for women.  The problems that we as women face today are cloaked in modern situations, and although some things might be difficult don't let this be a deterrent for success. The Diva Principle also serves as an instruction manual on how to live a Godly life.  The examples of women found in the Bible should be the pattern for our attitude or in this case, diva-tude.    <br />	2004-08-26
US	52778199	R1BR6820JDGWO6	0743449002	497620588	The Good House: A Novel	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Too Lengthy but Good	Mystical Voodoo is the topic thoroughly explored in The Good House.  Although quite lengthy, almost beyond this reviewer's limit, The Good House had an unexplained pull, which kept me reading to the last page.  I wanted to know how the entire series of events occurred without the expense of reading through volumes of mindless drivel.   Obviously, I am hooked and this is the draw of reading.  Mission accomplished.  <br />  <br />Angela Toussaint inherits the Good House from her grandmother Marie Toussaint, the town herbalist and healer. Many of the older townspeople in Sacajawea, Washington remember Ms. T'Saint as a lady who possessed mystical healing talents, but Angela never believes this of her grandmother.  Marie never shared her voodoo culture with Angela, purposely to spare her from hurt, harm and pain.  Little did she know keeping this horrible secret could ruin future generations.  Angela unknowingly inherits the curse of The Good House to which her son Corey, in his teenage curiosity, unearths repressed evil spirits during an annual summer trip back to quiet Washington State.  The Fourth of July would never be the same for the townspeople of Sacajawea and thus the cause of tremendous heartache for Angela.  It was this holiday that her beloved only son apparently took his life during the celebratory party.  Angela returned to California distraught to the point she seeks mental counseling and completely shutting off friends and family.  Her thoughts constantly go back to the mental breakdown and suicide of her own mother.  Mental strength is not a trait found in her family, it appears.  The passage of time brings slow healing and Angela is convinced to return to The Good House to possibly sell the property and bring about closure to her broken heart.  What she discovers upon her return trip, terrifies her but presses her to finding the root cause to the evil that threatens to destroy her and her family name. <br />  <br />The reader floats through many time periods, told from the perspective of the person who experienced them.  During these changes in time, I found myself wanting to know more and more but would have appreciated the history lesson early on in the novel.  I would have felt a deeper connection to each prominent character if I had known their history before the end.  Personally, I didn't feel that this was Tananarive Due's best work, but still one to add to your collection if you are a fan of horror.  There were hair raising, spine tingling moments sprinkled throughout which enriched the experience and pressed the reader to the dynamic conclusion.  After I was finished, I couldn't help but wonder who was going to write the cliff notes version.  This is one book definitely worthy of lengthy discussion.  <br />	2004-08-26
US	52778199	R1F698H4TAF8DO	0974363669	851255187	Sins of the Father	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Have you thought of the consequence?	\\"Poppa was a rolling stone\\" best characterizes Samuel \\"Street\\" Jamieson, the father portrayed in Sins of the Father.  During the course of his lifetime he fathers four sons by three different women and when he and his wife die tragically, those attending his funeral have many different perceptions.  Words such as \\"caring, devoted father\\" don't ring true for his three oldest children --Terrence, Malik and Bernard.  They mourned his passing years before his death, when he unceremoniously walked out of their lives.  His youngest son Sammie feels differently since he is the only one to benefit, even for a short time, from a father in his life.Sammie was forced into a different lifestyle when he was orphaned at such a young age.  He moves from spacious and comfortable dwellings into the projects with his father's only surviving relative, a crack head sister.  Plagued with troubles of her own, she only sees dollar signs when taking in her nephew.  Surprisingly, young Sammie continues to thrive and show promise in his new school.  The teachers and principal take notice of his achievements and want to assure his continued academic success.  He finds refuge in an after-school program where he can seek safety and shelter, talk out issues and nurture his passion - basketball, sometimes even with Bernard Christian, an up and coming NBA draft hopeful.  This is the highlight of Sammie's dismal life.  Through his interaction at the center everybody comes to love this mild mannered, smart but lonely kid.The plot thickens and the \\"sins of the father\\" can no longer be hidden.  The emotions of the older sons and the younger son collide dramatically.  There is plenty of physical as well as emotional action.  Enough passion to keep the reader turning pages to find out which path Sammie's life will take.Character development was paramount in this story.  I think each character was sufficiently developed to engage the reader.  You felt something for each character mentioned and althoughthere were many, each added successfully to the story. The dialogue flowed to make reading a breeze and you come away from the reading experience with a different perspective on how children develop with and without father figures.  I'm not sure the original intent ofthe writing of Sins of the Father was to walk away with a moral, but one is clearly present, and to me I find its inclusion a bonus.	2004-08-24
US	52778199	R3CJ1S0S31ZRWG	0974512206	762024146	Aunt Ruby, Do I Look Like God?	Books	5	0	0	N	N	What does God Look Like?	Christians seem to struggle with the same question little Bria asked,  Aunt Ruby, Do I Look Like God?  The logical conclusion is that no living person has seen what God looks like, but Aunt Ruby explains it so Bria can easily understand.  God gave a description of Himself in Genesis when He said, \\"we were all made in His image.\\"  Illustrated by Maria Rask, this children's book characterizes humans in all races and nationalities and shows we are created in the image of God.   <br /> <br />This book is a wonderful introduction to God for preschoolers; it's are colorful and imaginative. The writing is simple enough for beginning readers to read for themselves.  It can also serve as a bedtime story for smaller children.   Although a child prompted the question, the interpretation of a small verse is important to all of God's children no matter what age. <br />	2004-08-20
US	52778199	R3MEUZKZ91DVXU	0374399557	10253509	Twists and Turns	Books	4	0	0	N	N	You can succeed	Teesha and Keeba Washington have finally graduated from Brooklyn High School and are wondering what they are going to do with the rest of their lives.  Although Teesha is a year younger, she graduated right along with her sister and the two of them are as close as any two sisters could be.  Their mother is proud of her daughters' accomplishments thus far and only wishes that she could provide more in the way of their future, but life in the inner city isn't easy.   Unlike their lifelong friends who have moved from the projects into college, or jobs such as TV commercials and computer programming, Teesha and Keeba haven't found their niche yet. The only thing they do is braid hair -- and they do hair quite well.  <br /> <br />Twists and Turns is a book that illustrates both the power of sisterhood and teamwork.  On many levels this book is written for young adults, yet older readers will enjoy the story as well.  Belief in each other, the skills of their craft and cooperation amongst friends and family, the Washington sisters rent a storefront in the neighborhood and open up TeeKee's Tresses.   <br /> <br />The elements of a good story are present in Twists and Turns as the girls experience jealousy and envy, political scheming and landlord greed.  Through it all, the reader wonders if the girls can sustain themselves or will their hardships break their entrepreneurial spirit.  While reading, one might question their resolve to overcome the stereotypical nature of their living and business surroundings.  The plot takes many twists and turns but the journey chronicling their action is fast paced and energetic.  <br /> <br />Not a street fiction book, but certainly bringing it home that life in the inner city isn't easy, Twists and Turns captures the environment and the reality that everything in a supposedly bad environment isn't really as bad as it seems.  Belief in yourself is one of the central themes from which everyone can benefit.  Though this book is fictional,teenagers can picture themselves in the vulnerability of the Washington sisters and find strength in the positive outcome perseverance always yields.    <br />	2004-08-18
US	52778199	R3OS8AGQAMCF03	0970941811	354553321	Grip the Rope: Prayers for Single Mothers	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An Inspirational Alphabet	Truly inspiring, Grip The Rope is a compact book of twenty-six prayers, which are guides to help get through the perils of raising a family single-handedly.  The prayers are listed in alphabetical order, though brief, they are powerful in their message.  Easily read through in about an hour, these prayers are an excellent reference to go back to time and time again for inspiration.  Each prayer starts off with a scriptural reference which sets a meditative air, and allows you time alone with God.  Share in His infinite wisdom as Ms. Curtis guides you into silent reflection towards overcoming situations.  <br /> <br />The simple A-Z approach and conversational style of dialogue brings topics as burnout, integrity, rest, time management and zeal to prayerful introspection.  I don't think of the Bible specifically addressing burnout per se, but the scriptural reference put my mind on a new train of thought and revealed that it is \\"ok\\" to feel overwhelmed with life and to seek strength from within your heart.  I like the new approach, to thinking about life, that Ms. Curtis has eloquently expressed.  <br /> <br />I've been ministered to, by reading Grip the Rope; there is something in this book for everyone. Not only the single mother but the woman, the wife, the friend will benefit from reading Grip the Rope.  Share this book with others and share the blessing you will receive simply from having read these prayers.  <br />	2004-08-06
US	52778199	R9ONIG8TEK1UX	0385511361	315387370	The Blackbird Papers: A Novel	Books	4	7	10	N	N	A Classic start to a mystery series	I'm a fan of mystery, intrigue and suspense so I was delighted to hear The Blackbird Papers would satisfy my reading requirements in this genre.  New author, Ian Smith has added to the literary scene by effectively writing a great book.   I certainly was not disappointed when I sat down to read this book and further think people who like to read a good \\"whodunit\\" will be thrilled with this novel.   <br /> <br />I don't know what to talk about first. The characters are: Prize winning science Professor Wilson Bledsoe, his lovely wife Kay, the president of Dartmouth College Dr. Wallace Mortimer, and FBI agent and brother to Professor Bledsoe, Sterling Bledsoe.  The limited number of supporting characters further enhances the ease in remembering who is who and who did what, as the reader embarks on a journey to find out who killed Professor Bledsoe.  First, who would have reason to kill him and secondly, what was their motive?  As the mystery unfolds it is discovered Professor Bledsoe was conducting secret research on the overwhelming numbers of dead blackbirds found in the serene countryside of Hanover, New Hampshire and for his gruesome discovery, somebody wanted him dead.  Those close to the professor and his research are equal targets and Sterling has to jump in and get up to speed quickly before the tables are turned on him. <br /> <br />I read the book in two days; I simply couldn't put it down.  There were several times when I uttered an audible gasp, my breath caught and I experienced a shudder, as a shocking discovery was made deeper into the mystery.  Sterling is determined to find out who would do such a thing to his peaceable brother.  Although the brothers were never close, and Sterling perceived he lived in his older brother's shadow, finding his killer or killers is the one thing he could do to appease guilt and enact justice.  Suspense enters when the local police department suspects Sterling is no longer on their side and quickly becomes their number one suspect.  As he fights to clear his name, I could only sit back, tightly grip the pages and hold on for the ride. <br /> <br />Discovering and reading The Blackbird Papers was an elation.  I felt the book was well written, wonderfully researched and elegantly apportioned with the accoutrements of suspense and intrigue.  I had reservations about reading the book only because I thought the author might use words, which would require the companionship of a dictionary and I was equally as pleased to see my fears were unfounded.  Avid readers have something to look forward to with the advent of future Sterling Bledsoe mysteries. <br /> <br />	2004-07-26
US	52778199	R3QSFAM4E3YBDB	1585710725	616495117	Ebony Butterfly (Indigo After Dark, Vol.5)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Erotica with a Storyline	Can you imagine losing the diary that you've kept and written the past five year's worth of secrets in?  Imagine the horror if you knew the person who found it?  What if the person read it?  Such is the case for Sharonda Williams.  Misplacing her treasure keeper is distressing, but when she finds out her handsome neighbor has it, she's elated and then horrified to find he is a blast from her childhood, James Cooper.  James is unashamed in stating he has read the steamy pages and offers his services in assisting Sharonda with fulfilling her fantasies.  Understandably resistant to his advances, she nonetheless fantasizes about how it would be to fulfill her desires with him.  Their one time date many years ago wasn't exactly terrible and he has matured in the sexiest way.  <br /> <br />Through tantalizing phone calls, peeks through binoculars, and secret codes using wind chimes, the pages of her diary come alive in vivid detail.  James is fit for the task of seduction, just the way Sharonda pictures it.  The use of imaginative language, thoughtful dialogue and probably a cold shower along the way, transports the reader of this volume into a world many of us only dare to envision.  This is a quick read, but the effects can be quite reaching, particularly if you read aloud to your partner.  <br /> <br />As with other erotic novels, the imagination level of the reader has to be high to get the greatest effect. Ebony Butterfly, Indigo after Dark Vol. V does a decent job of combining a story line in between the billows of steam to hopefully capture the avid reader.  I believe the author accomplished her mission of creating a sweltering erotic fantasy, but somewhere along the way the plot disappeared. This genre isn't my particular favorite, but I value the creative plot woven throughout and I am more willing to read these types of books when there is a tangible story line.  <br />	2004-07-26
US	52778199	R2W4JYON94GBRY	158314465X	888454331	A Measure Of Faith	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Excercise your Faith to continue your personal growth	A Measure of Faith is a novel to which many women can relate.  It deals with the issues of raising teenage children, running a household, owning her own interior design business, experiencing women's health issues, seeking independence, nurturing a deeper bond with a husband, balancing friendship and finding self. All are addressed in 240 pages. <br /> <br /> Lynnette Montgomery is the lady who has to exercise her faith against overwhelming odds to hold it all together.  I found it refreshing. The situations and circumstances in the book could be issues we all face, and likely as genuine is the realization that Lynn has problems maintaining a healthy balance.   <br /> <br />Lynn is plagued by nightmares involving the mother who abandoned her at four years of age.  Meanwhile, her doctor breaks bad news to her that her fibroids require surgery and she is adamant about not losing those parts she feels makes her a woman.  She longs to talk her situation over with her mother or some other older woman who can understand. Her supportive husband, Robert, feels left out of her life and isn't sure how to help her through such life-changing decisions.  Lynn's faith waivers and she stops attending church and being attentive to her family.  In her quest to find solace, Lynn turns to her childhood friend, who in her eagerness to assist causes a rift in Lynn and Robert's marriage. Lynn's client Rose, an older lady, becomes Lynn's refuge when she finds the pressure too much to bear.  Lynn finds immeasurable knowledge and strength through her unexplainable strong bond with Rose. <br /> <br />A Measure of Faith is Maxine Billing's first novel.  The comprehensive list of topics addressed in this book could have easily been expanded into an epic, but the writing style captured everything very succinctly and made reading enjoyable.  <br />	2004-07-26
US	52778199	R8ZQDKAA8T56O	0974363642	393800453	She's Got Issues	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Serious Issues....  You have to read it!	Whew Lawd is all I can say after reading this book!  Talk about issues, this book contains probably the biggest one of all.  What would you do ladies, if your man was cheating on you and you happened to come in contact with the woman who ruined your relationship?  Would you react immediately or would you bide your time for the right opportunity to react?<br /><br />Meet Sinclair, a woman scorned and Aliette, a woman who has many issues including sleeping with married men.  Not what I expected just by glancing at the title, She?s Got Issues is a well-written expos? on the feelings experienced in a relationship where infidelity has occurred.<br /><br />There are mental issues for both women, but that?s expected when dealing with a broken heart.  While reading, I went through anger with Sinclair, hurt and pain, and the desire to destroy Aliette?s life in the same manner in which Aliette destroyed hers.  That?s keeping it real to me.  Sinclair is probably the only true friend Aliette has.  Aliette isn?t able to maintain a healthy relationship with anyone, not family, not friends, nor men, so Sinclair is her savior in many respects.  Certainly she isn?t able to view this in their relationship, but as the book is so aptly titled, She?s Got Issues.<br /><br />Through the plot twists is an interesting and captivating read.  Readers will find themselves wondering what is going to happen next.  At every turn of the page, something subtle but necessary to the plot occurs which makes this book hard to put down.  Torn between the two characters, the reader becomes intimately involved and to me that is what makes a dynamic story.<br /><br />Dealing with infidelity, and the journey to discover ones true self, this book is power packed. Stephanie Johnson has a book that she can be proud of.  Urban Books has a book they can be proud of, Carl Weber-keep doing your thing.	2004-07-22
US	52778199	R8YNDTC2ED92B	0743225384	353982648	Soothe Your Nerves: The Black Woman's Guide to Understanding and Overcoming Anxiety, Panic, and Fearz	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Helpful and informative book concerning AA women	Soothe Your Nerves explores a topic that many women, especially black women, don?t discuss but find that we suffer from a lot.  ?Nerves? is what we call it, when in fact we are suffering from a treatable and curable ailment called Anxiety.  Many black women have been raised to believe that we shouldn?t seek or accept professional help for problems and we?ve been so conditioned to adapt to our problems that we readily don?t recognize we suffer from this condition.  Using examples of people she?s knows and/or has treated, Dr. Angela Neal-Barnett exposes anxiety, panic and fear and gives advice on how treatment can turn a life around.  <br /> <br />Soothe Your Nerves contains self-assessments to recognize Obsessive Compulsive Disorders, examines the types of drugs commonly prescribed for treatment, and even takes the time to distinguish between psychiatrists, psychologists, counselors and lay personnel by degree and length of internship.  She further lists websites and other helpful numbers for people seeking assistance with personal issues.  I like the use of examples the best and while I don?t think that we are actually searching for ourselves through the pages, the subjects Dr. Neal-Barnett chooses to highlight are wonderfully illustrated with people we might encounter in our lives.  We might encounter ourselves.  A strong proponent of ?Sister Circles?, there are even examples of charters and step-by-step instruction on starting a circle.  <br /> <br />I am especially pleased to see that faith is mentioned in the book.  Oft times, as illustrated in the book, we are taught that if we pray more and seek to turn our lives more toward our Creator, all things will be solved.  It is nice to be reassured that seeking professional help for a mental issue isn?t turning away from our faith but rather allowing professionals to further enhance our faith walk.  Dr. Neal-Barnett even mingles her Sister Circle concept in the church. Soothe Your Nerves has opened a door enabling more people to walk through, explore and accept. Simply by reading this book, a person is taking the first step to self-discovery and self help.	2004-07-21
US	52778199	R1V06E5QS75YJP	0971843600	623013665	As If Nothing Happened	Books	4	1	1	N	N	How well do you know and care for your friends?	So you think you know your best friends?  And you think they know you?  What secrets are you harboring from your friends because you don't think they will understand and might pass judgment on you?  These questions are the foundation of As If Nothing Happened, Monica Carter's debut novel. Three friends, Yvonne, Joya and Jennifer, have been close since college but their friendship is taking a turn and the reader is left to wonder if their friendship bond will survive the unknown.<br />Joya is the mediator of the group.  Yvonne and Jennifer go to her for non-biased advice about everything but Joya doesn't feel that she can turn to them with her problems. The pressures of her job have invaded her personal life and she feels that she can't confide in anybone. Yvonne is torn between her former lover who has power in the bedroom and her current man who is mentally as well as physically stimulating.  Jennifer is supposed to have the perfect marriage, child and family.  As the reader uncovers plot twists, everything is not as it seems between friends for their situations are drastically different than what they portray to one another.  While not necessarily living a lie amongst each other, they would each rather maintain their perceived image while restoring their image within.<br />What makes this a wonderful read is the realism created through the characters.  Yvonne, Joya and Jennifer come alive from the pages.  Their situations are real and how they deal with their personal issues is true to form.  Nobody wants to look bad in front of others, but as they realized, it's good to have a confidant to turn to.  True friendship is a blessing from above and Monica Carter has highlighted the importance of cultivating endearing friendships.  If you're looking for a book to recommend to your girlfriends, As If Nothing Happens will strengthen the ties that bind you to your friends.	2004-07-19
US	52778199	R2KOVHA6P53TVQ	0971843619	849207685	Sacrifice the One	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Heartache and Pain	I am not normally an overly emotional person but Sacrifice The One stirred emotions in me that I pride myself in controlling.  Seta, the main character, has a life nobody would dream of living, but sadly many of us have been in her shoes.  This book explores Seta's life and those close to her, especially her grandparent's influence. Grandparents raising their grandchildren because of unfortunate circumstances are an increasing trend. <br />The longing for a family is a strong desire, resident in each one of us and although we learn to adapt to the environment we're placed in, it still doesn't feel quite right.  Seta's birth ended the life of her mother and thus begins a downward spiral in her life.  Her father Robert was deeply in love with her mother Rose.  His desire was to be with her for eternity and if no child was to come from its union, so be it.  Rose on the other hand wanted a child to embody the love she had for their relationship.  The devastating loss of Rose changes Robert dramatically.  He pours immeasurable love upon Rosetta Love (Seta) while nursing his broken heart until one day something eventually snaps and forever changes him.<br />Residing with her maternal grandparents, Barbara and Phillip, Seta blossoms into a precocious child.  Always aware of her father's presence four blocks away, Seta longs to return home to him and never quite understands why she isn't living with him.  She would go visit but he was always so distant.  Her grandparents live on a fixed income and provide the best they can for her but she felt that she was a burden to them.  Her grandmother insists she follow her dreams and let them worry about the costs, while instilling firm moral and Christian beliefs. <br />Teenage angst causes Seta problems while growing up.  She feels ostracized from the other girls in school but finds an outlet through playing basketball.  She misses the love of family so she seeks it from other sources.  As she matures, her lack of understanding herfather has festered into hatred for him.  As Sacrifice the One progresses she changes in countless ways and these changes were heart wrenching.<br />This coming of age novel highlights the myriad of emotions a child feels while growing up.  The degree to which adults influence the mental growth of a child through unconscious, conscious and sometimes selfish motives truly affects the person within.  Sacrifice the One is wonderfully written and exposes this metamorphosis between childhood and adulthood, Monica P. Carter has a hit on her hands and on our bookshelves.	2004-07-19
US	52778199	R22AAWSK5E5N2M	0316073032	596259208	Little Scarlet: An Easy Rawlins Mystery	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Easy is Back	Ezekiel \\"Easy\\" Rawlins returns in this eighth installment of the series, to investigate a murder that LAPD would rather keep quiet in the wake of the 1965 Watts Race Riots. Walter Mosley sets out to capture the reader as only he can by vividly spinning a plot snagging the reader in a web of characters, action, and suspense only a few hours of non-interrupted reading will extract you from.  <br />The murder of Nola Payne is the key focus in this mystery and solving this crime falls under the jurisdiction of the Los Angeles Police Department.  One problem, Nola is black, lives in riot torn Watts and the prime suspect is a white man last seen entering her apartment.  Detective Suggs rounds up unlicensed, private investigator Easy Rawlins to help with the case.  He feels he can get Easy to assist with the threat of shutting down his work because he doesn't have the proper credentials. What he learns is Easy has a heart for his people, for his neighborhood and a sense of justice. <br />Detective Suggs is right to assume it just wouldn't do in these racially tense times, to see a white man asking questions about a young black woman. The riots might flare back up.  Easy isn't particularly keen about getting involved but talking with the victim's grievously distraught grandmother convinces him that if he can do his part to assist in finding a killer, he'll proceed.  What he uncovers is captivating. The layers of people involved circle through a number of avenues.  It might seem confusing at first.  The more Easy burrows into the investigation, the more caught up the reader becomes until the climax.<br />The familiar cast of characters and subplots return in Little Scarlet.  The reader won't be disappointed that Mouse contributes in his own way to Easy's success, beautiful enticing women always play a roll, Mama Jo is still concocting home remedies and we catch a glimpse into his home life and explore his sometimes torn, most private emotions.  This interweaving of strong recurring characters and plots that diverge in many directions makes a Walter Mosley story one that is both remarkable and memorable.  Exploring an investigation with Easy Rawlins at the helm is guaranteed to take you on wonderful literary journey.	2004-07-19
US	52778199	R1MPSGLC864O6W	0974750131	745323016	Cheatin' in the Next Room	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A Lesson Learned	This book is so much more than the title suggests.  Cheatin' in the Next Room does a decent job of looking at the aftermath cheating has on all the people involved.  Rhonda Lawson has a well-written book, that could be expanded to fully develop all of the central characters When Cheatin' in the Next Room hits the stands it is sure to be a well received and talked about novel. <br /> <br />Meet Christopher and his newlywed bride, Andrea.  Happily married for a year and three months after a whirlwind courtship, they are determined to make their marriage the ideal.  Deeply committed to each other and their marital vows it's plain to see this couple has what it takes for success.  Christopher is putting on front by covering insecurities and shame from his past.  He was a player when he met Andrea in college and admittedly not ready for marriage but his selfishness caused him to propose to ensure no other man could take her away from him.  It's soon discovered that his philandering ways obviously aren't out of his system. <br /> <br />Andrea, a high school English teacher feels her life is complete.  She's married to a man she loves and completely trusts.  She's privileged to have her best friend Brenda living in the same city with her and they have remained close since tenth grade back in New Orleans. However, things take a rocky turn when at a Christmas party Brenda's twenty-year-old cousin, Alexis and Christopher lock eyes and shortly thereafter, locks other things in a short-lived affair.  <br /> <br />Admittedly a game to Alexis, to see if she could pull a married man, Chris falls into old habits and they both pay a terrible price for their indiscretions.  Reading Cheatin' in the Next Room brings home the devastation deceitful acts cause.  A marriage is at risk, a long-standing friendship is threatened, a budding relationship is destroyed and trust is annihilated.  As the plot develops, it's clear raw emotions are controlling the outcomes.  The realism of the writing makes reading this book more than something to cuddle up with on a lazy Sunday afternoon, it drives the point home that each action has an equal and opposite reaction and consequences. Both Christopher and Alexis found this to be true, the hard way.	2004-07-14
US	52778199	R3HJF0Q3A9HLNA	0971769702	522251814	Entangled	Books	4	0	0	N	N	History is destined to repeat itself	What is it with good girls falling head over heels for the \\"bad guy\\" or the \\"roughneck\\" these days?  K. Elliot has captured this phenomenon quite accurately in Entangled, and aptly named his work so, because Dream certainly finds herself swallowed up in a mess concerning her love interest, Jamal. <br />Dream is portrayed as coming from a good family whose parents have high hopes for her life.  She is a history and although her name sounds a bit ghetto to me, she's not really a ghetto girl.  She isn't satisfied with her life or the choice of men to share her life with.  In the past she hasn't exactly chosen ones that her parents thought were suitable for her, but there is something that she finds attractive in the thug.  As a history teacher, she should know that if a lesson isn't learned from previous mistakes, history is destined to repeat itself.  Her relationship with Jamal, a drug trafficker fresh out of prison who said he didn't want to return to the life, is such an example.  She's captivated by Jamal.  However, her parents aren't as taken.  <br />As the story becomes more entangled, Dream is drawn into some things that she didn't bargain for.  I grew upset with Dream and the notion of a woman so enamored with a man that she would do anything for him, even when she knows it's wrong.  She realizes that he's dealing high stake drugs and fails to leave this man alone.  <br />Best classified as urban or street fiction, Entangled had an interesting hook that drew me in.  The subplot of a DEA agent who has mixed feelings about his job makes the story interesting.  Could there really be people who care about the subjects they are arresting?  I could have jumped through the pages on several occasions and handled a little business but alas, it's a novel. The technicalities of writing were met, which is a highlight to urban fiction these days, so kudos are extended to Mr. K. Elliott on shining a positive light on grammar. I would have liked to see a more positive portrayal of a strong woman, rather than an easily controlled puppet, but I can't have it all.  I'm interested in seeing what Mr. Elliott will put out in the future.  Will he stick with this genre or move on to more mainstream fiction?	2004-07-13
US	52778199	RKQH2M2QM4THB	0767904885	899585962	Girl, Get Your Money Straight: A Sister's Guide to Healing Your Bank Account and Funding Your Dreams in 7 Simple Steps	Books	4	23	23	N	N	Decide to do it, then do it!	A holistic and straightforward approach to managing your money, Girl, Get Your Money Straight!, is written in plain English and simple enough for even beginners to comprehend. There are no complicated terms or intimidating jargon, which require a financial planner to interpret, thus easing the reader's way to fall in step towards change.  Making amendments to your financial future starts with seven simple, precise steps, you can take now.  As stressed in this book, there are no preliminary steps other than to determine in your mind that you want to make a change.  Specifically written in a vernacular that would appeal to the African-American woman, Glinda Bridgforth gets down to the nitty gritty when talking about finances. Not a subject easily broached in the Black community it would seem, finance is something that we must get under control in order to prosper.  From years of counseling people, Girl, Get You Money Straight contains many scenarios in which readers can relate.  Though written several years ago, the information is still pertinent and viable.  The scenarios examine the root cause of the behavior and works on changing the root to yield a more prosperous bloom.  One example would be the misguided concept of \\"keeping up with the Jones'\\" and what a tremendous financial burden that creates on the family when appearances overshadow necessity.  <BR>Written several years ago, the information in this book is still pertinent and viable. If you have decided to change your financial life, this book is necessary to help you along your journey.  With strength from above and a purposeful goal in mind, you can overcome the bonds of financial dependence and free yourself by starting now.	2004-06-23
US	52778199	R3J1RMZJEC3UTY	0743477278	903163847	Fourplay: ...the Dance of Sensuality	Books	3	0	0	N	N	She's Back, Sasha is back	I've been eagerly awaiting the return of Sasha Borianni since her initial introduction in Threesome last year.  I'm glad to see that she has returned with the same vitality, vim and vigor as when first introduced. The eagerly awaited sequel Fourplay has finally arrived on the scene.  The familiar cast of characters, Sasha is not for the faint of heart.  Although she is portrayed as a powerful and smart business lady, her business acumen isn't necessarily centered on common widespread and acceptable practices. She isn't ashamed to admit that she uses what she has, to get where she needs to be.  <br />Sasha is joined by her old flame and ex-boss, NBA Basketball star Phoenix Carter are joined by new players - banking executive Jordan Ashe; another old love Trent; and wealthy financier Lyor Turrell.  With the increased man count, one can imagine a shocking increase in the drama but Miss Sasha has it well under control. <br />Fourplay finds Sasha embarking on the journey toward opening her own high profile public relations firm - Platinum Images. Hustling for her clientele, she still manages to maintain a hyperactive social calendar.  Through one of these social interactions she meets Lyor.  Immediately drawn in by her infectious charm he seeks to get to know her better.  Secretly however, he is aware of her previous relationship with Phoenix.  This knowledge leads to interesting twists that Threesome didn't have. Phoenix returns, seeking Sasha's professional assistance in making his name shine in the public eye, and save his career in the NBA.  Meanwhile, the love of her life for the moment seems to be banking executive Jordan but her ex fiancé Trent isn't trying to be excluded from the picture either.  <br />Fourplay is more than just romance and sexual conquests. There are interesting snippets that clearly show Sasha has a caring and compassionate family side as well. There is even blackmail, mystery and intrigue to keep the reader enthralled.  Not always portrayed as a diva that didn't mind using her sexuality as a business asset, author Brenda Thomas has expanded a seemingly shallow character into a more mature and well-rounded individual.  However, as the new dynamics of deceit unfold, Sasha might be on the verge of getting played. It is this quiet and lurking thought, which keeps both Sasha lovers and haters reading until the very end.   Just reading about these three men and their one woman, the reader's mind begins to spin.  This novel is masterfully written because all of the characters are well defined and easy to follow which in turn makes for enjoyable reading.	2004-06-23
US	52778199	R1BS1HA6EFMK4Z	0451210360	546019257	Il Makiage Pressed Powders	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Is There Such a Thing?	Mitchell Stone has issues.  His career is suffering, his book is fledgling, he has a sufficient amount of baby momma drama, an adoring son and a new wife who desperately wants to have a baby.  Mitchell maneuvers through life's difficult situations to find A Perfect Blend between love, family and friendship.<br />Mitchell and Nikki were married for four months when things start going sour.  The loss of a high-powered executive job now has Nikki as the primary breadwinner.  Mitchell doesn't like this, but puts on a brave front.  O.J., an up and coming controversial radio host hires Mitchell as his personal business manager.  Not the income he desired but, it is enough to pay the mortgage and two car payments.  Because Mitchell's life isn't in order, he doesn't want to have another child and has told Nikki this on several occasions.  Nikki, on one hand understands it is financially taxing to support his son Clay, but on the other, wishes to share the bond of a child with Mitchell herself.<br />Gina, Mitchell's \\"Baby Momma\\" obviously has his attention.  She has their son Clay and obviously isn't afraid to use him any way she can.  Nikki, although confident in her place in Mitchell's life, can't help but want to share the bond by having a child of her own.  She stoops to an almost unconscionable level to get what she thinks she wants.<br />As the plot develops, Gina's man Dale plays a significant role in the outcome. The subplot involving O.J. his \\"Baby Momma\\" Keesa and their daughter Cherrelle is interesting as well.  The cast of characters helps the story move.  I dare say there is somebody with whom the reader can relate while reading along.  The title, though not clearly defined in the story itself, manifests itself in the overall feeling of the book.	2004-04-28
US	52778199	R3UJNDQK7Y2OY9	0974363693	245270777	Around the Way Girls	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Excellent Short Stories	Around the Way Girls is a collection of three very well-written short stories.  Each story like a sentence, a collection of words formed to complete a single thought.  Each story is centered on women who can be thought of as \\"Around the Way Girls\\", but each woman is so much more.  My displeasure with short stories being too short is further solidified with this book. I want more, admittedly because I'm greedy, and while I'm aware of the degree of difficulty in penning a short, my complaint is meant more as a compliment to these three authors.<br />Busted and Disgusted, by Angel Hunter, details the life of Cream White, an exotic dancer who has decided she wants something more out of the life with her dealer boyfriend, Wise.  Together they have made a life for themselves and their son and her cousin, whom she has raised since her mother passed away at an early age.  Cream has decided its time for her family to get out of the game.  However, her best friend Amber has other plans for Cream and Wise which calls into question the whole notion of friendship.   Amber and Cream pull a hustle on two unsuspecting men, which nets Cream with the necessary money to leave the ghetto, but she also snares more problems.  What is urban fiction without a strong dose of drama?  Cream has plenty of drama in her dealings with Wise, being good friends with the owner of the club where she dances and with her relationship with Amber.<br />Southern Comfort, by La Jill Hunt, focuses on a strong desire for a woman to live her own life.  Sydni Johnson wants nothing more than to have her brother back and get the hell out of New York.  Transplanted from Atlanta 5 years' prior, she's never been happy and has countless reasons to return home.  Between the death of her brother, the dirty old man her mother is about to marry, a sister who is lost to the streets, and a guy who loves her so much it hurts, Sydni has drama too.  She has a plan and she is determined to work her plan.  As Southern Comfortclimaxes, the drama that unfolds is shocking, the conclusion mind draining.  Nicely written, well developed and action-packed to the very end.  Syndi's life is certainly something. <br />Played, by Dwayne S. Joseph, is the only short story authored by a man.  I could tell the difference in the perceptions of the female protagonist because I found myself shaking my head at her ignorance.  As titled, Played is exactly what ole girl Angel Santiago got, but I must give it to her, she did what she had to do in the end.  The journey she takes while hustling in the game is all about control. The fact is, she has to have it all, the way she wants it and this isn't lost on her male companion Frido.  However as a player, she eventually meets her match. Isn't that a law of nature or something?  Keeping track of Frido and being his girl is something that she really didn't want to do but she was caught up in the moment and her payback, or should I say Frido's payback, is worth the read.<br />Together, these three shorts were an excellent way to spend an afternoon.  I was caught up in the varied, but somewhat similar, lives of the strong female lead characters. Around The Way Girls is an excellent way to portray the literary value of street fiction.	2004-04-28
US	52778199	R5NYILW7Q9H9Z	1553063945	925367101	For Love and Grace (For Love and Grace Series #1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A beautiful, moving love story	For Love and Grace captivated me as a charming romance novel. Reading this novel brought back a personal nostalgia for the ideals of love.  The characters were realistically created and I could relate to the real life situations.  For Love and Grace has it all.  If you're looking for comic relief with a strong moral backbone, then look to Mattie and Lena.  If you're looking for a special, personal intimate relationship, look to Greg and Grace.  If you can relate to the pain of loosing a parent and coping with grief look at Derrick.  If you want to be a strong supportive wife, mother and friend then concentrate on Sherry.  Friendships are tested, look to Greg and Derrick to see how they went through a storm and emerged on the other side. Most of all look toward self for there are some good practices to be gained by reading this novel.<br />A car crash ended the life of attorney Derrick Madison's mother.  The same car crash placed Grace Charles in the hospital barely clinging to life with severe head trauma.  She is transferred for more specialized care and surgery to the hospital where Dr. Gregory Dixon works.  He becomes her primary physician.  It is not every day that a patient is blessed with a Christian physician who prays for Gods strength and direction. Derrick is bitter with the driver of the car that caused his mother to wreck.  He calls the driver a murderer and is determined to make the driver face justice.  He is incensed when he finds out that Grace is the other driver and that his best friend from the cradle, has saved her life.  Sherry- Derricks wife, the pastor of their church, and Greg's mother Mattie seek to comfort Derrick, but because of his guilt, he is clearly not thinking rationally about the charge that Greg has as a doctor.  Enraged with his wife, his best friend, and his mother's best friend because they don't feel the same way he does, he becomes a maverick and stops going to church, being friends with Greg and estranges himself from his wife.<br />Meanwhile, Greg has fallen in love for the first time.  If ever there was love at first sight, seeing Grace for the first time in her battered and bruised state, Greg knew she was the one.  Her mother Lena and Mattie become friends during Grace's surgery and recovery period and Sherry becomes a close confidante.  Grief continues to consume Derrick and Grace gets better.  Love blossoms, as friendship fades. But God is not through with this situation yet.  Watching the power of God move through all of these characters is truly a testament to His greatness. <br />A Christian fiction novel, For Love and Grace keeps it real without being preachy.  The operative word is Fiction in the description of the novel.  I think the events can be real and open the possibility of actual occurrence.  God exercises the power to heal the sick, the broken hearted and disenchanted.  The possibility of falling in love with the spirit of a person just from coming into contact with them one time is real but admittedly rare.  A true love story without benefit of formula, Kendra Norman-Bellamy has a hit on her hands and on my bookshelf.	2004-04-15
US	52778199	R1KA9SRLIH45K5	0971195374	720489162	Feenin : A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Face Your Past for a Brighter Future	Talk about a horrible childhood and you would be referring to Tokus Stone. Abandoned by his mother and stepfather at an early age, he literally grew up in the streets.  Tokus is an example of being in an environment but not a product of it.   He emerged from his miserable surroundings into a true self-made man by setting and attaining goals inspired by incredible self-motivation.  Don't get me wrong, he certainly wasn't perfect and this confirms the firm belief that \\"you can't run from your past\\".  As such, some of the trials of being a drug dealer and a common street hustler came back to haunt him but, overall the reader can develop a sense of pride in his accomplishments.<br />The flip side of the Tokus' coin belongs to Way Jalon.  Old money, coupled with a life bred in the toil of others to do his bidding, Way Jalon has his sights set on destroying mankind.  He plans on using Tokus as the catalyst.  The weapon of choice? A new drug on the market called Feenin.  Most powerful for several factors, the most detrimental is its ability to completely kill a community without them recognizing its effects.  Unwillingly and unknowingly, Tokus becomes the front man for this sinister operation.<br />The collision of the worlds of these two men is a fascinating journey and I marvel at the literary prowess of Nane Quartay.  The characters were enough to give a well-rounded story and each was developed far more than I had originally given the book credit for.  For instance, the transformation of the character whose nickname was Bug, into his new name of  T'Challa.  The mental image we have of bugs and the low regard we have for such creatures in society, coupled with the idea that bugs are timid and scared of humans.  The transformation of a person merely by a name change is profound.  The author's use of language to paint a crystal clear image of the effects drugs have on a community is powerful. I expected this to be a \\"ghetto\\" or \\"street\\" novel but now I would have to characterize it differently.  It is more poetic with symbolism and imagery, pregnant with imaginative plot twists and resounding with a clear moral outcome.  Feenin is an exceptional novel.	2004-04-13
US	52778199	R1DBIEOLVQH9I	0964763591	967598944	When He Calls	Books	3	1	1	N	N	When You've done your all, Listen for HIS call	A brutal attack while away in college placed Tonya Henderson in a dilemma that tested her faith in God and everything she trusted and believed in.  Raised in a loving two parent home, Tonya was sheltered and protected.  Nurtured in this environment, her parents insisted on burying the situation instead of properly helping Tonya come to grips with the occurrence.  Coming back to her safe cocoon was her method of dealing with her problems after the vicious act.  When He Calls is written in the first person voice of Tonya ranging from childhood to adulthood, she often reminisces on both and the lives of her close friends.  It is through these memories that she draws strength to rekindle her spirit.<br />Denise, Lisa, Sasha and Tonya have been friends since grade school.  Each young lady shared experiences with each other. This is how Tonya learned about life especially since her parents didn't discuss these things with her. The intimate details they shared defined their relationship and characters as the book progressed.  The closeness developed allowed Tonya an outlet to emerge from her cocoon into a butterfly.  As her girlfriends progressed to other avenues, her friendship with Gary matured.  He was the first and only love of her life and the romance that blossomed was nothing short of endearing.  The patience and slow progression of their relationship should give hope to young people and teach them that growing a love affair from a friendship first is well worth the time and effort.  Friendships of all kinds are the central theme to this book.  Ms. Gordon-Love explored friendships of all kinds as the central theme<br />While He Calls focuses on the strength of friendship and the undying belief in God. I'm reminded that God never leaves or forsakes us even when we turn away from Him for whatever reason.  This is enforced through the pages of this novel. \\"Train up a child in the way he should go and when he is old, he will not depart from it,\\" Proverbs 22:6.  Such wasthe case with Tonya.  Through her storms, When He Calls, she answered.  Although written primarily for the teen audience, anyone can garner strength, determination and respect for differences in each other by reading this testament.	2004-04-08
US	52778199	R193HZZVMNTD17	0974363650	818238957	A Gangster's Girl	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Urban Fiction at its best	Urban fiction at its best is how I would characterize A Gangster's Girl.  First time Chunichi has captured the life of a gangster's girl with stunning accuracy.  There is enough neck rolling, gum popping, latest fashion wearing, and name-dropping to keep the surface reader entertained while devising a nicely written novel for the more in-depth reader.  I imagined the balance was difficult to maintain, but Chunichi has pulled it off.<br />Vegas is an eighteen-year-old street hustler on the cusp of running things in the hood Ceazia (pronounced C-Asia) is into the life of fancy cars, fine clothes, expensive wining and dining and thugs that can afford her the lifestyle to which she feels she is entitled.  The two meet and she is immediately captivated by his raw but alluring demeanor. She decides to see what he's about.  After spending the night in a hotel with Vegas, discovering a pocket full of money and an ID revealing his true age, Ceazia still decides to pursue a relationship with him.  She is living the life of her dreams, which sadly is dictated by money and the ghetto power it brings.  Her friends even begin to exhibit jealous behavior toward her because she's come up while they remain hustlers who try to out hustle the game before getting hustled. One friend in particular Meikell, is a worrisome thorn that provides interesting dynamics in the story.  <br />Life couldn't be going any better for Vegas and Ceazia until the tables turn.  Living by the code of the streets means always keeping watch on the back door and not becoming complacent with being on top of the heap.  While Vegas made sure that his girl wanted for nothing and she likewise hooked him up, comfort bred laziness to the rules of the game. While the relationship remained strong for years, the unfretted arm of the law worked its hand in and snatched Vegas away.  This was the beginning of the end.  It's interesting to see just how quickly one can ascend and fall.<br />A Gangster's Girl was too short for my reading taste, however the story was complete with no stone unturned.  Although not my usual genre, I thought the writing was well done, and the story wonderfully told.  Great job Urban Books. I think this book truly characterizes your focus on the drama and grit of inner city life while featuring edgy and exciting new voices-writers who tell it like it is. I look forward to reading more from Chunichi.	2004-04-08
US	52778199	R4CWL01HYWBLA	1583143866	309358557	Not The One (Arabesque)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	It is the one	I must admit I've not read a romance novel in years.  I mean with all sincerity I've not read a paperback romance novel since my high school days. I'm surprised in how far they've come or am I just delighted to read a romance novel written by an African American woman who is able to express it like it is.  I didn't feel Not the One was defined using some sort of magic formula so reading it was comfortable and I had normal emotions and feelings toward the characters.  Of course some of my comfort in reading romance at this stage in life is dwells from the fact I can \\"relate\\" to the characters, I've experienced romance in my own life so I was impressed with the realism of the characters.  Deirdre Savoy kept this book real to me. <br />Nina Ward strikes me as a typical woman of today.  She's finally learned self-contentment but yet desires intimacy.  When first introduced, Nina was involved in a mutually agreed upon relationship with Ron where sexual gratification was fulfilled and the wall surrounding her heart was protected.  This worked for Nina, but not for Ron.  On their last meeting date, he announced he had married and wished her the best of luck with her future.  Not sure if she was heart broken over this announcement, life continued for her. <br />Matthew Peterson walked into Nina's life but she wasn't looking for a handsome young pediatrician to stroll her way.  As a friend to Nina's family, he always seemed to be at family events and charity affairs and his eyes eventually fell to the attractive Nina. Yet, she paid him little to no attention other than to be polite. When she fell ill at a charity affair hosted by his mother, Matthew offered to see her home.  Nina unwilling to let the sparks ignite, thought of ways to avoid his gaze and end this infatuation, but even the best-laid plans don't work out for the best she discovers. With the not so subtle encouragement of Nina's man crazy cousin Yasmin, and their sweet grandmother devising equally creative ways of uniting the two, a relationship built on friendship and trust developed. <br />What would a romance novel be without a happy ending, but you have to read to discover what an enduring relationship emerged between Matthew and Nina.  There was compassion, patience, understanding, faith and friendship, which blossomed around all who came in contact with them.   Not without difficulty, but with discovery of themselves and each other, romance was the one.	2004-03-22
US	52778199	R2RZLQG4JUBH8F	1593090064	123521476	Passion Marks: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Gripping, timely, painful but worth every minute to read	Times have changed.  I can remember when passion marks were almost coveted possessions -- blemishes one most certainly tried to hide under a turtleneck, only after someone commented about their presence.  Symbols of intimacy were a rite of passage between the reckless teenage years and adulthood.  Then passion marks took an ugly turn and became something to truly be ashamed of.  They suddenly were hidden from view, even from the person who inflicted them.  These darkly hidden marks are what Lee Hayes uncovers in his debut novel, Passion Marks.  <br />Look up the word passion in the dictionary, its primary meaning rests in suffering and emotion distinguished from reason. Its not until you reach the fourth or fifth meaning, that you find that passion loosely refers to love, which is fitting when we meet Kevin Davis and his partner James Lancaster.  Both men have overcome painful obstacles in their lives.  The suicide death of Kevin's twin brother Keevan has subconsciously run him into the loving and oft times brutal arms of James.  James' teenaged years witnessed the brutal murder of his mother, his own rape by his father and then his father's suicide. Seemingly overcoming the pain of his past, he is the prosperous business owner of a very successful company, which afforded them the best of everything.  Foreboding under the surface, both men treated their hurt in a negative manner.  James' abuse toward Kevin is violent, spirit numbing and soul wrenching.  Kevin is inflicting violence to himself because at some level he felt he deserves this treatment as atonement for his twin.  Through the patient but forceful hands of his friends Danea, Tony and Darryl, Kevin begins to realize staying in an abusive relationship does not solve his deep hurt.<br />Abuse is a hard subject to talk or write about.  Lee Hayes has done an excellent job of bringing this painful experience into vivid detail.  The first part of Passion Marks is hard to read.  I found myself crying out with theinjustice and treatment Kevin received.  The second part of the book deals with how Kevin regained control over his life and was a much happier read.  Just when the reader became bogged down in despair, hope surfaced and the story turned into one of reconciliation.  Supportive friends and the inclusion of Kevin in their lives surround him with the strength needed to overcome his circumstances.  The plot twists will prove to be shockers for all who read this novel, and take it from me when I say the last few chapters you hardly breathe as you read in anticipation.<br />I find it hard to believe this is a first novel.  The maturity of thought and clarity are exceptional.  This novel has all the characteristics that keep the reader turning pages.  The first page grips you and the last page tenderly turns you loose to eagerly wait the next work.  Best of luck to you, Lee Hayes.  You are making your mark in the literary world.	2004-03-08
US	52778199	R3K6ZINI74ZXPL	0974406619	196675144	Anonymity: A Tale of Suspense, Seduction & Revenge	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Riveting Plot	Cara Fleming has to fight for everything she knows to be right and true.  Her husband has accused her of being an adulterer based on an anonymous phone call.  Their marriage teeters on the brink of destruction but Cara steadfastly refuses to apologize or admit wrongdoing in something she clearly had no part in.  Moving to lead separate lives Cara is determined to clear her name.  She is certain that she has been framed.  Secrets revealed, hurts healed and deception woven in creates a well-told story. <BR>Anonymity is a novel that is action packed, suspenseful and riveting.  There is a large cast of characters who play a part in the framing of Cara so the reader might want to jot down a few notes along the way to keep everybody straight.  The story has roots in Mississippi, Tennessee and Illinois.  Typical of the black migration from the southern states to places like Chicago, Anonymity draws on close family ties and a strong sense of justice and equality no matter what the personal cost.  As Cara pulls her life together and begins to discover who has set out to destroy her relationship and jeopardize her family she uncovers murder, mystery and intrigue.  Mario, her estranged husband has completely abandoned her and she turns to his best friend, Detective Lester Miller, for answers.  A fair man, Lester takes it upon himself to investigate with Cara and both recognize the path of danger she is on.  It all comes spiraling to a head when Cara is targeted in a murder for hire plot where identities are being revealed that could further destroy several families. <BR>Anonymity is a captivating read.  I couldn't put the book down and completed it in a day. A mystery that was strong enough to not let me rest until I knew all of the intricate details.  The main characters were reasonably developed but too many people made it difficult to keep relationships straight.  I found myself reverting back to prior chapters to remember who was who.  After I had everybody straight, theamateur detective skills along with professional skills served to create characters that could be recurring in future books by Ms. Gosa.	2004-03-08
US	52778199	R1X7154G7XF6ER	097295001X	195371044	Counting Raindrops through a Stained Glass Window	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Theories aren't Fact	Commitment phobia abounds in the thoughts and actions of Vanella Morris. She has so much fear in the idea of obligating to marriage as an  \\"until death do us part\\" ideal, that she's willing to risk her content relationship with Alton Goode.  She's contrived to hold up her theory on the surest way to ruin a good relationship is to marry the man that you love.  Self-defined as the \\"O-Theory\\", Vanella teeters on the brink of ruining what many people would classify as ultimate happiness.  The love of her life proposes and this starts a severe case of the jitters.   The very thought of losing the man she loves after five or so years of marriage, to a divorce spurs her to convince him they are better off living together.  She doesn't want her marriage to become a divorce statistic.  After all, this is the path her friends have taken and the path her dysfunctional parents should take.  She's concluded that not marrying will stave off unnecessary heartache in the future. Unfortunately, what is her commitment to her theory doing for the present?<br />Vanella grew up seeing how marriage was not supposed to be.  She witnessed inequalities in the treatment her father lavished on her and her sister, and withheld with vigor from her brother.  Her father's treatment of her mother was abuse in its classic form.   The subplot of her nuclear family is spellbinding.  Moving away from St. Louis to Cleveland was probably an unconscious means of escaping to a better frame of mind.  Adding to this unbalance is an equally relationship plagued bevy of friends that are seemingly or actually soured on relationships themselves.  It is safe to assume that Vanella isn't around any truly positive influences when it comes to making commitment last.  Her best friend Synda is particularly treacherous as she managed to sleep with Vanella's boyfriend in college and then convinced him to marry her to boot. Vanella's forgiving and understanding spirit accepted Synda back into her life but which proves to be akin to letting a rattlesnake out of its cage.  The snake may not strike now, but it lays in wait for the opportune time. Alton is valiant in his efforts to convince Vanella their relationship isn't controlled by statistics or opinions from outsiders.  He firmly believes their relationship is what they make it, but she has to be willing to scrutinize it.  Pressured by problems at home, the ruins of her relationship and unfulfilled with her career, Vanella is forced to critically examine her theory.<br />Wonderfully written with vibrant scenes, flowing prose and enough drama and dysfunction to keep it real, Cherlyn Michaels has loosed an unaired theory that many sisters and brother subscribe to.  Timely in her approach as she uses Oprah as the \\"O\\" in her \\"theory\\" with Oprah's misunderstood relationship with Stedman   Why marry when not being married but having a significant other affords the same benefits? Why not look at those around you and base your personal life on their public persona?  As Michael's explores in Counting Raindrops Through a Stained Glass Window, in spite of everything you have to live your life for you. The vision becomes blurry when you try to see your life from someone else's perspective.	2004-03-03
US	52778199	R3HWD4SQEEEGYG	0974690902	726766904	Mass Deception (Volume 1)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Lies, secret and deceit	Secrets and lies permeate this book and the author Hallema, a fresh new writer on the scene, tells a wonderfully different story.  The topic -sex changes and alternative lifestyles- may be unnerving to some but nonetheless is real.  Meet Toni T. Godwin, a bright, young, hip executive in a marketing firm who started off life in Tallahassee, FL as Tony.  Encouraged by a supportive mother, Tony changed from Tony with a \\"y\\" to Toni with an \\"i\\" after he graduated from school and reinvented himself into the person that we are introduced to at the beginning of the story. <br />Toni has a lifelong friend Devon with whom she's kept in touch with over the years. Devon is her staunchest supporter they are kindred spirits.  Devon is gay some may even characterize him as \\"flaming\\", but he has a classy elegance about himself and his humor is infectious. He's managed to find a benefactor who has afforded him a lifestyle anybody would dream of.  Devon, A.K.A. Miss Divine, is unashamed of his lifestyle and encourages Toni to be honest with all of her suitors.  <br />Toni and Miss Divine get together for the weekend of their high school reunion, where Toni decides to enact a little revenge on her high school torturers and live a little.  Unbeknownst to her, things don't work out the way she plans and the person who she loved to hate the most has turned out to be quite the handsome catch.  Miss Divine has the whole weekend planned out, including setting up Toni with John.  Between dates with John and her high school friend, Toni was quite busy running about town.<br />As the relationship between John and Toni progresses, everybody wonders when Toni is going to fess up about her previous state of being. She is torn between revealing her secret and possibly losing a good man or keeping the information to herself and living a lie.  Her life goes on as she steadily climbs the corporate ladder but this one thing threatens to tear it all down.  She reminisces about having told other men about her status and remembers the physical and mental pain that came with the decision.  While her friends and family remain silent, Devon becomes almost insistent that she turn loose her secret and give John the opportunity to be just as accepting.  When Devon falls ill, Toni rushes to his side and everything, every secret threatens to collide.  <br />The plot is like a roller coaster ride as you read this book.  There are highs and lows, twists, turns and hellacious flips.  You almost forget that Toni is harboring such a secret.  Weaving through this tale, you find that Toni is not the only one who is hiding, and the secrets that others are shrouding are just as painful. The lies that are told in polite society threaten to ruin all of the characters in the book.  Just when you think you've figured out the truth, another layer of deception is discovered.  The book didn't end with any conclusions, which sets the reader up to wait for the sequel.  I hope Hallema is busy writing.	2004-02-25
US	52778199	R3NL5C9WJYKQ4R	1410740099	360985770	By the Grace of God	Books	3	5	6	N	N	You never know- until you know	By The Grace of God deals with a very private issue - HIV/AIDS and how this devastating disease affects everyone around.  Gracie Gregory is someone that has overcome many hurdles and triumphed over them all before the age of thirty. A promising track star, Gracie was sidelined by injury.  Still into fitness she opened a fitness center in Dallas, Texas and adjusted her life to include this Plan B.  Engaged to Mr. Body Builder himself, Dillian, living in a posh apartment, success at her fingertips, who would not have thought Gracie didn't have it all.  Unfortunately it wasn't meant to be.  Dillian mysteriously breaks up with her sending her spiraling into a deep chasm. <br />Deciding to immerse herself in her work, and with the aid of her business partner and best friend Kendra, the fitness center flourishes.  Members are joining, classes are filling up, business is up but there is still a negative down trend in Gracie.  She received calls directing her to call the local health department and after returning the call, she is devastated by the conversation.  She is asked to come in and submit herself to tests.  The most agonizing days ensue as she waits to find out if the results from the test that she has taken for HIV proves that she is positive or not.  She invites her parents to visit with her and although terrified to tell them, she realizes the strength that can come from their loving and Godly support.  Gracie is their only child and their support is unwavering.  During the time of this breakup, she meets an old flame, Marcus who happens to reside in Dallas too.  Matter of fact, his fiancé' is a member of Gracie's Gym and she inadvertently reintroduces the two of them again.  Marcus never extinguished the flame that he carried for Gracie and soon their friendship grew into a support system.<br />By the Grace of God is a superbly written first novel by Keshia Dawn.  The plot kept me reading until the end.  I was so intrigued with how the story was going to turnout; I too waited with baited breath to hear the results of Gracie's test.  I wanted to know who potentially infected her, and how they contracted this disease.  I was interested in how such devastation would be handled. The reader will be shocked to see how each of the characters has such a complex role in the make up of the plot. Well written to keep you thinking and aware of your surroundings and keen on your divine purpose in life.	2004-02-12
US	52778199	R2JKIZUNYSJ3ME	0974013609	701239794	Church Boy	Books	3	0	0	N	N	CH- -CH!  What's Missing?	Church Boy deals eloquently with a subject that people don't normally discuss openly - attending church.  Attending church and choosing a belief is a very personal choice, so dealing with the wide range of emotion that comes with being a church member in good standing hasn't really been tackled in the fiction world.  It is also refreshing to know that Church Boy centers on a man's experiences in church.  Many woman who attend church Sunday after Sunday often bemoan the fact that men aren't in attendance- church lacks the strong male presence outside of the married pastor.  True enough we may be going to church for the wrong reasons if taking a head count of the single men is the primary objective, but there is a disparity in the numbers between the sexes.  Cordell Armstrong is the man who has found the courage in his convictions and admittedly found the strength to attend church while making a getaway to save his life.  To escape from thugs who clearly mean to do more harm than good, he hops on the church van on its way to revival.  Constricted because he vowed that church just wasn't his thing, and realizing that there was no way to escape the final destination, he thought that at least he would please his mother by making an appearance.  Teased unmercifully on the van, because he had such profound stuttering, he couldn't wait for the van to arrive at church and for church to be over but something happened during the revival that would forever change the course of Cordell's life, he was saved.  If that wasn't enough, he was also delivered from stuttering.  <br />Life changed for Cordell after he found that God loved him and cared enough about him to change the way he talked.    His deliverance so impressed his friend Westside, that he joined church and accepted Christ as well.   His mother was proud of her son, for she taught all of her children that peace abided within the church, but clearly left the choice for pursuit to them.  Life for these two young men, whowere raised in the midst of chaos and turmoil changed with the addition of church and its wide variety of events and services designed to keep those that belonged to church, in church.  As the story progresses we find that Church Boy has all the elements of a story that will keep you reading: an innocent romance; scandal in the church; rejection of an absent parent; siblings coming to terms with who they are; struggle; triumph; and defeat.  Cordell and his family-his mother, two sisters, younger brother and Westside - transcend the pages of Church Boy to make a subject that isn't discussed, very interesting.  This novel says a lot of things that people think but don't verbalize-keeping it real, and that is a refreshing tone.  The frank discussions that the family has, the independence that the mother allows her children when it comes to their personal relationship with God and the church are insightful.  I appreciate a book that is well written, devoid of grammatical errors and full of interesting views on subjects that I normally take for granted.	2004-02-10
US	52778199	R3IYMXXJ5Z2B7J	1410723593	168400042	The 51st and 52nd States	Books	3	1	1	N	N	What state do you reside?	America, we have to face facts that we have two additional states to add to our union.  It is time that these states stand up and demand recognition, thereby permanently blurring the lines between fiction and fact.  These states are unlike any other of the states for they have no physical boundaries and while present world wide, their greatest members (I feel) can be found in America.  What are these states that we reside in?  Poverty and Prosperity.  Reading through this allegory in the 51st and 52nd States sheds new light and new thought to what we all know and fail to publicly acknowledge.<br />This book is different than others.  There are no characters to become acquainted with, no plot to aspire to a crescendo, or cliffhanger, just a cold hard analysis of life.  Wonderfully crafted, Jelterow McKinnie Jr. was right to follow the advice of a professor to entertain a career as an author.  It's not easy to write in symbolism about human existence but that is exactly how the Povs and Spers come to life.  A short book, but well put together.  In each of the 6 chapters, there is an in-depth study of the validity and lifestyle of each state.   Issues that we think about such as the disparity between education, the differences in priorities on spending and saving money, spending quality time with your children, volunteer services and the like are all concerns that we know about but don't talk about.  The 51st and 52nd States challenges the reader to think about life as we know it and our lives as perceived under these two states.  Most importantly this book shows that regardless of your state, you can achieve anything beyond its borders.  It's good to know the perceived limitations but it's better to know how to achieve them beyond someone else's perception.	2004-02-05
US	52778199	R1HKGNTCOO2PUT	0972741607	49000821	Nobody's Business	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fiction that Ministers	I'm not sure that author, Rebecca Simmons would classify Nobody's Business as Christian Fiction, but I must say that the book really ministered to me.  While the books primary focus is on relationships, the inclusion of Godly principles brought out a great message and worked wonderfully in the plot.  We all struggle from time to time with ourselves and the main theme present in this book is to love yourself first and foremost.  When we learn to look after ourselves, we're a better help and comfort to others.  As a first novel, Ms. Simmons' book has left a lasting impression on me and I see potential for greater works incorporating the same themes.<br />Clara works as a psychologist at a women's crisis shelter.  She is involved in a relationship with Jason, who loves her dearly and has asked her to marry him.  She has refused, even though she loves him, because she has decided that she never wants to marry or have children.  This understandably causes a rift in their relationship but they struggle to hang on.  The stress of Clara's job and non-addressed issues of her past threaten to destroy Clara as well as her relationship with Jason.  She's taken to drinking to drown painful memories and actions. She feels that her work at the shelter isn't effective, that she's not reaching her clients.   Her mother is an alcoholic and her older sister has coupled booze with drugs to bury the painful sting of her past.  On the outside Clara is listening and providing counsel to people who need to talk about their problems, while on the inside she is need of counsel.  As her world spirals downward she decides to seek help for herself.   Enters Justine, Clara's counselor.  Justine is laid back, casual and very open to discussing things at Clara's pace.  The only requirement is that God be central to any advice given.  The bible is the instruction manual by which the counseling center operates and Justine prays for and with each of her clients.  <br />The plot thickens. Clara teeters on the edge of sanity when her mother is hospitalized near death, her sister is out of control, an old flame comes back into her life after Jason removes himself, and her clients are sinking deeper into their problems - her only hope is to turn to the Savior.  Never a religious woman, Clara finds solace in her choice to give her life to Christ and she finds comfort in continued counseling sessions with Justine.  Uncovering her past, and finding that her past is tied to a client of hers that has a split personality, talking about what she's always considered to be Nobody's Business is helping her climb out of the pit of despair that her life is in.  As Clara discovers painful truths about her childhood, she becomes supportive to others.    As she learns more about herself, she is able to share more with others and take her own advice.	2004-01-28
US	52778199	R1P0F1VEXR814K	0974257222	488210414	Roses are Thorns, Violets are True	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Interesting Metaphors	Twins are individuals first and foremost and Roses are Thorns, Violets are True exemplifies this in a very poignant and metaphoric way.  Meet twin sisters Rose and Violet Perdue.  The two are very different, but identical, persons who growing up experienced the same emotions as siblings often do - the affection and attention of loving parents.  Often times there seems to be one child who tries to outdo the other to become the \\"apple of the parents' eye\\".  On the outside, Rose is the glamorous, outgoing, egregious one - a movie star.  Violet is more reserved and demure and runs a center for troubled youth. It appeared to Rose that Violet had the attention of their parents and Rose constantly schemed and conspired against Violet throughout childhood.  This pattern of competition continued until adulthood and fostered horrible resentment between the sisters.  Rose did horrible things to sabotage anything that Violet did and this, of course, shattered any trust that Violet might have in her sister.<br />The novel opens with a scathing interview that Violet has given to a magazine detailing the life of two lovely flowers who have weeds growing and choking their beautiful blooms.  Violet has cut ties with Rose for a very good reason.  Rose seduced Violets' husband and to make matters worse, feigned pregnancy to make the man marry her.  Naturally Violet should be hurt and lets be real ladies, Rose should be shot.  Instead the sisterly bond died.   The interview hit the stands, appropriately entitled \\"Roses are Thorns\\", and Rose saw her career take a nosedive and immediately began plotting against Violet. Their mother, ever the peacemaker between the two, tries to foster reconciliation between her beloved daughters.  Violet decides that she can talk to Rose and they begin to carefully reconcile their friendship and sisterly bond.  Violet has found love with Marcus- a basketball star, and Rose has started a relationship with her CD Producer.  Both ladies have careers that are in full swing-even after damage control - and things are looking good personally and professionally for both of them.  Their mother couldn't be happier. Rest assured this story takes the reader on another adventure, reminiscent of the past and we read, hoping to find out if there is a successful resolution.<br />Drawn in by the plot, the intricate metaphor between flowers and the bonds of sisterhood, I was compelled to read this book quickly.  I couldn't wait to find out how the relationship between these twins turned out.  We often hear of how close twins are to one another, but this book can shatter that myth.  This was Ms. Goss' first novel and I certainly hope it is not her last.  Her writing style, conversational in approach, kept me entertained and reaching to turn the page. Roses are Thorns, Violets are True was well thought out and put together.	2004-01-27
US	52778199	R1RP4LYD2N2TUJ	1583144811	766403602	Mississippi Blues	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Realistic and very moving	Mississippi Blues is a marvelously different book, a refreshing change from novels to me in that the main character Beverly Lamark acted as a regular person would act.  I didn't get any pretenses or airs from her character, she was somebody that everybody could relate to.  Her thoughts were \\"real\\" thoughts and her actions were \\"real\\" too. She did what we would do, not what we might no to be the right thing to do.   We meet Beverly at a cross roads in her life.  She is in the midst of a 17-year-old loveless marriage to a man whom she loves but his way of showing love excludes the one he loves. Work to support his family is his primary objective, but being a lawyer Michael fails to see that his absence from his family is driving them away.  They are like polite strangers in the house.  Beverly is a typical mom of two teenagers- running them to all of their events, she's become a taxi service and while her children are almost the central focus of her life she has found that filling the big void in her life is best done with a drink.  Beverly Lamark can't even be herself-whoever that person is- in her own career as a writer.  She's achieved great success under a pseudonym because she refuses to face and deal with her own demons.  Demons that started presenting themselves most especially eight years ago when she left her family for the last time back in Vicksburg, Mississippi after the passing of her father.  She decided at that time that dealing with her two sisters and two brothers was a bit much.  Once so close to them that nothing separated them but as the years progressed, each of their problems further drove Beverly from them.  The way they thought about her and her thoughts about them severed the bonds of blood it would seem.<br />As we delve deeper by reading this captivating novel, we find that Beverly has been called home to tend to unfinished family business, the disposition of the family land that her father worked so hard to buy and keep. This land is the very source of the rift between her and her siblings.  Beverly takes her two children Lisa and Junior home with her, after an eight-year absence, to mend fences and provide some continuity to family ties.  As they journey from Massachusetts to Mississippi tragedy strikes once.  Upon arriving with family, tragedy strikes again and the family suffers immeasurable loss but though this loss- gain comes as well. Beverly isn't a made up character who always does the \\"right thing\\" (because after all this is a book) she's amazingly human.  Her reactions to situations might not be the best but I had the distinct feeling that her reactions would many times have been my reaction if dealt with similar situations.  I was captivated with her down to earth, real feeling and the range of emotion this book evokes.  <br />From a writing perspective, the character development of each of the siblings is superb, while reading Mississippi Blues the reader is invited to sit down and become part of this family.  Keeping it real, there isn't a character in this book that you can't find to relate to on a number of different levels.  Cassandra Darden Bell has done a great job of taking a composite family and exposing the various layers in a completely charismatic way.	2004-01-21
US	52778199	R1EIKFR1LPTX4W	0974533602	149997818	Rap Superstar	Books	3	0	0	N	N	I was enthralled	Rap superstar, Animalistic, was the king of his rap world.  He is such an unlikely central character in such an endearing romantic novel but I promise you, reading Rap Superstar will take you away.  I couldn?t put the book down; I read it in less than 4 hours because I was so enthralled with the characters and the story.  This is the way we all envision romance.  Animalistic A.K.A. Anthony Talbert, because of his stardom as a rapper had women falling all over him.  For the chance to sleep with a mega star women threw themselves at him, he had his choice of women on a daily basis.  But when he made it to Greensboro, North Carolina- all of that changed.  It was in this city that he met Randi Jacobs.  With his usual cocky self he decided that she would be his prize the next night after his concert, he gave her a personal invitation to attend that night?s after set.  Because she was captured by his stardom and joked with her friend Kathy that he was her baby daddy, she went to the party after she got off work.  Much to her chagrin, it wasn?t what she was into- she simply wasn?t that type of girl.  Once Animalistic discovered this, a change overtook him and he simply must capture Randi.<BR>As the story progresses, Anthony pulls out all the stops to capture Randi?s heart.  Here is a woman, who demands to be treated as a lady and has high standards for her personal conduct as well as how she allows others to treat her.  Anthony cannot resist this and is hopelessly drawn to Randi.  Because of a bad relationship, Randi is resistant to his advances but the chased is eventually captured. Anthony is a different man from Animalistic and Randi learns this and returns the love.  Anthony is the product of a loving mother and father who celebrated their thirtieth wedding anniversary during his courtship with Randi.  Meeting his parents strengthened her desire to find a lasting love.   As the plot progresses, we experience the highs and lows in their relationship which makes this love story so captivating.  With each turn of the page, the reader experiences what life in love is about and how couples work out their differences and strengthen their love.  You won?t be disappointed in this hip-hop love tale.	2004-01-19
US	52778199	RPL7IZSBOCQB4	0812966562	884131594	That Faith, That Trust, That Love: A Novel (Strivers Row)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Beautiful and Blessed Relationships	Marley is the central character in this book and the central theme to me was family relationships and dynamics of the bond between mother and daughter and the ever-present greatness of God in healing bonds.   How important bonds are and the nurturing it takes to make successes of these bonds made this Christian Fiction book, more real that the word \\"fiction\\" implies.  Ma Grand and her daughter Pam had a strained relationship at best.  Ma Grand was from the `old school' so to say, where it wasn't as important to say those three magical words `I love you' as it was to show them.  She had inherited those traits from her parents so saw no need to give that type of attention to her daughter Pam.  When Marley came along, Pam felt differently about that towards her daughter and willingly lavished not only positive words, but also influence and affection upon her. It is this relationship that propels Marley to experience the same in her relationship with Gerrard her fiancé.  As the novel begins, we are transported to the engagement party of this socialite couple and while things appear bright from the heavy hitters on the invitation list, looks can be deceiving.  As Marley soon finds out, her fiancé has other interests that don't place his relationship with her in the forefront of his decisions and this leads to their eventual demise.  As Marley searches for strength in the midst of this pain, illness strikes home with her mother Pam.<br />Shrouded in seemingly dark clouds, an invitation to join her secretary in church provides a ray of sunshine to Marley.  As if God is speaking to her with every word that proceeds from the Minister's mouth, Marley has at last found solace - a resting place for her heart and soul.  An added bonus is the introduction of Lazarus into her life a God Fearing Christian, upright man.  Not many of them exist today and what a treasure when one is found.  It is through this relationship, with this Godly man that Marley reconciles in her mind the relationship between Ma Grand and her mother, and the relationship between her mother and herself.  God creates and nurtures bonds on an individual basis because of his omnipresence.  Marley blossoms into a strong Christian woman through the love of a great man and the love of great family.  Through That Faith, That Trust, That Love that Marley has for God, the manifestation is seen throughout her relationships others.  This is a very inspirational read to those of us who want our lives to be used by God for his purpose.	2004-01-18
US	52778199	R6BHAK985JYNF	0595278213	48124802	What She Left Behind (Audrey Wilson Mystery)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A different type of Mystery	A joyous business trip to Atlanta turns sour quickly when the awards banquet that Audrey Wilson and her ex-pro basketball player brother Bobby are attending, ends with a murder and Bobby is accused of the heinous crime.  Shocking revelations of the connection between Bobby and Simone, the murdered woman, overshadows any award for service that Audrey and her brother have done in Rosemont, Ohio.  A likely mystery ensues.  The reluctant heroine, always concerned with her family because she is the oldest, Audrey immediately launches into \\"mother\\" mode and does what she can to free her brother and exonerate him of the crime.  Since so many people have traveled from Ohio to Atlanta her resource base is nothing short of convenient.  Her former lover Jules, happens to be an attorney and happens to be in town and agrees to take Bobby's case.  Bobby's best friend resides in Atlanta and offers Audrey and their other sister Renita a place to stay and transportation, plus his numerous connections and persona open doors to them.  While Bobby sits in jail, his family and friends are on the case to free him and take custody of a little boy Simone left behind and with whom Bobby assumes he's the father of, Simon.<br />What She Left Behind, starts off slowly but as I kept reading, I was intrigued by how Simone's life and her documentary of it through the discovery of her journals shed light to her demise.  How her deep love for her son Simon who is Autistic was her motivation for everything she did since his birth.  She was remorseful of the life that she led but finding no other choice in how to execute her life her decisions hurt everybody involved. Bobby asked Audrey to take custody of Simon and this proved to be a daunting task. To come to grips with the fact that she had a nephew and one that had a handicap almost proved to be too much but Audrey, always the strong one, assumed the job and put plans in motion to support this.  As the story continues to unfold, the revelations ofSimone's journal along with the mental prowess of Audrey and her friends sheds light on the case and made me sit up suddenly as the light turned on and I solved the mystery.  There were a bit too many characters in the book for me.  Some weren't needed to effectively tell this story as some subplots were lost as the intensity of the main plot heated up. I like the fact that Autism was examined, and done so in a very dignified and respectful manner.  I like the compassion that the characters had for one another and the way family stuck together.  Overall this was an uplifting novel with the bonus of a mystery thrown in.	2004-01-15
US	52778199	R37WI3EYFYTDEE	0758202490	547643953	Dark Corner	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Brandon Massey has done it again	Who? Did you say Stephen King? Dean Koontz?  The best horror/suspense writers of today?  Then you haven?t taken the time to read Brandon Massey for his latest novel, Dark Corner draws you into its liar on page one and turns you loose many sleepless nights later.  Simply mind numbing and captivating would best describe this horror flick that I fully expect to find its way to the silver screen.  A masterful tale full of edge of the seat terror that keeps the reader suspended until the end.  Not to take anything away from Stephen King, Dean Koontz and others, but its great to see talent of this magnitude materialize in writers of Mr. Massey?s generation.<br />Meet David Hunter, son of a famous writer, Richard Hunter who hails from Mason?s Corner, Mississippi.  After his fathers? untimely death and the lack of a father-son relationship growing up, David decides to find out what he can about this mystery of a man by leaving his home in Atlanta and journeying to his fathers home to live for a year or two.  Horror brews in this quiet and quaint town where up until now, Richard Hunter was the most notable citizen.  The pot is stirred when Kyle flies in from Paris to take up residence in the haunted mansion of the town?s founder, Edward Mason. Kyle too is looking for his father, Diallo and when David and Kyle?s paths cross, good versus evil takes on new meaning.  Kyle is the son of vampires and even among their ranks there is a sense of justice.  Being a small town, full of curious folk who are eager to meet and discuss their two newest residents, strange and sinister things begin to unfold and these things are noticed by quite a number of people.  A number of deeply winding plot twists take David and his friend Nia, the police chief Van Jackson and his son, the towns self proclaimed historian, Franklin and his wife Ruby on a journey that no one will forget in pursuit of destiny outlined by David?s Great Grandfather over a century ago.  <br />Masterfully written, Dark Cornerenthralled me.  Mr. Massey?s use of the English language impressed me along with his innate ability to tell a story made this giant of a book a breeze to read.  The characters, were diverse and well developed and easily kept track of.  Best of all, this horror novel scared me so it did its job.	2004-01-13
US	52778199	R1AJPX0GKZCG0Q	0972086714	472328040	When I Get Free: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Freedom is attainable	Meet Theodore \\"Tower\\" Evans, an ex-con struggling to pull his life together after spending 10 years in the Oklahoma prison system.   Tower shattered my thoughts on how those imprisoned behind bars assimilate back into \\"normal\\" society for he wasn't a hardened thug that had nobody but street sense to get him out of situations.  Tower had a family who was very supportive of his need to make a successful transition back into life.  His mother and stepfather, who kept me laughing throughout the book, really could have transformed this book from fiction to fact.  I think that Cheryl Robinson has done a great job of capturing the many facets of life so realistically.<br />Not only is imprisonment for crimes a physical state it's also a mental challenge and Tower was determined to not only free himself from incarceration but also from the mentality associated with it.  He was determined to take back his physical, spiritual and mental freedom and decided that purging his experience in prison through a lady he met who was a budding author.  Her name is Gail and their relationship was forged through a chance meeting and even stranger bond that resulted.  Gail had amazing ability to live in her own world and be content in it no matter who thought that she was a wee bit weird. But through it all, sharing his story with Gail strengthened them both even though they both wished for a more romantic relationship at different times in their journey.  Tower had many setbacks it would seem - his parole officer took advantage of his status, his attempts to gain strength from church resulted in a relationship with his prayer partner, he lost his good paying job because of his conviction - but he did reach a different and better place.<br />With this type of novel, the reader is torn between expecting a happy ending and facing reality. This is the type of motivation that keeps us reading to the very end.  Once I started this book and learned the cast of characters I couldn't put the bookdown.  I wanted the best for Tower for he wanted to free himself from the demons that had found a home inside his mind while he was serving time.  An excellent character study in how a person has control of his destiny in spite of outside forces.	2004-01-09
US	52778199	R26WQMUOAS8Z0R	0971004900	713610035	Until Death Do Us Part!	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A Love Story with Suspense Thrown In	I was totally caught up in this book from word one and I must commend the author, Gregory J.T. Simpson, for a wonderful job in igniting the desire to read Until Death Do Us Part! from the first moments of reading.  I think the question on the back cover of the book completely sums up the crux of the novel, \\"how do you measure a man's love for his woman?\\" the reader will eagerly turn pages to find the answer.  Meet Noah, a successful businessman upwardly moving through his own corporate ladder in Atlanta with a beautiful wife named Andrea and a beautiful baby girl named Ashley.  Noah could want for nothing more.  The love they had can best be described as \\"flowing\\"; a man totally dedicated to his wife and to their marriage and to their bond, a woman with a one-track mind on the happiness afforded her by her husband. Suddenly this all changes.  In the 60 seconds it took for someone to mistakenly identify Andrea for somebody else, Noah's life forever changed.  <br />Death is devastating enough without a lot of mystery shrouding it, and we all have to make peace in our own way. Noah was no different and had to find out why his wife was mistaken for someone else, with the loving support of his father and sister and the support of staff at his company he took the time and sought answers to avenge her murder.  Through the efforts of a police detective's assistance and a quite unsuspecting duo of characters that Noah wouldn't seem to associate with, a suspenseful drama unfolds.  Micah can best be described as a very mysterious woman and Bishop a cold ex-con with revenge on his mind.  These three learn to use each other's strengths for mutual benefit and arrive at a successful conclusion for all three.  They each had their own mystery to solve the involved the other.   As you read, you will be caught up in the suspense as well as recognize true love.  I was so enthralled that I read this book in an evening.  I couldn't put it down.  The technical accuracy of describing the scene isn't lost in this book either which shows the author is truly dedicated to making his book a wonderful representation.	2004-01-01
US	52778199	R2UPJCYUGEBJIX	1588986713	266976917	Shoe Fetish	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Captivating	Guilty as charged, I am.  I have a shoe fetish that wont quit.  Next to books, shoes are the next things that get my money.  I have it so bad a few shoe stores in the area, my regular stomping grounds, call me to let me know when they get new hip styles in through the back door so that I can cart them out through the front.  Imagine my extreme pleasure when I saw a book I thought was written for other women such as myself, I couldnt wait to sit down and read this one.  My pleasure mounted even higher when I really looked deeper into the book and found out that shoes are but a small aspect to this novella and then how shoes are representative of a number of different aspects in a womans life especially when it comes down to the man.  Meet Carmen and her two friends TheLetter and Bethany.  We meet them at their vulnerable adolescent years when each of them experiences things in life that no child should have to deal with.<br />As Shoe Fetish unfolds, we begin with the reunion of the ladies at their 20th high school reunion.  The story is told as a remembrance of days gone by in each of their lives and comes full circle back to the present moment.  We find that they meet in junior high and their friendship continues while each lady goes to college and becomes successful in a career and its good to see women doing their thing the right way in books today.  However each woman has private torments that haunt her throughout adulthood.  Carmen was raped as a teenager and finds it hard to trust or respect men.  TheLetter has a giving spirit and a little money to go with and men mistake her giving for their own financial independence and bruise her spirit. Bethany is the free spirit of the bunch and the most grounded.  Though they move apart and college obligations keep them separated they find time to meet once a month to party and shop.  I like that, good practice amongst friends.  As time moves on, their lives change but each stays involved with one another.  <BR>A quick read, the title had me thinking one way and the actual reading brought me full circle. We all have fetishes and they all represent some aspect of our lives that we want to see  and live differently.	2003-12-30
US	52778199	RJNZRTSQDYE7	1891636138	880159725	Star Struck: An American Epidemic	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Makes you think	Why are we as a people, as a country, so enamored with superstars that we forget about morals, logical judgment and sound reasoning?   This question is the main focus of Star Stuck and one that needs to be examined sooner rather than later by our society.  It seems that we've put a false god in front of our children to worship- entertainers and this novel exposes all of that in gritty detail.<br />Meet Mr. Beemo-the hottest guy in the music industry to date.  He's sitting at the pinnacle and although there is a point at the top, it's not stabbing him...yet. He's making beautiful music, paying his boys, has all the women that he wants, he's in control of his destiny until he forgets from whence he's come.  He has maintained over the years a very rooted and grounded friend Lela Valentine who tries and sometimes succeeds in offering him kind words of wisdom.  Although at times, she gets caught up in the spell that he casts through his audience, for the most part she's his saving grace.  Until...it all becomes too much for Beemo.  The money, fame, status takes on an alleged wicked twist when he is accused and tried in the court of public opinion for unseemly acts with young girls and then he proceeds to sing about it in upcoming songs.  He has highs and lows, personal demons to fight with so in this novel we see the other side.  Lela on the other hand has warned him, has been amongst his staunchest supporters until it becomes too much for her.  She is forced to distance herself from him and his headstrong journey to the point of the pinnacle.<br />I wasn't impressed with neither the journalistic writing style nor the fictional similarities to incidents that are in the news today; I think it overshadowed the message that the book was trying to convey.  If you think of the title-Star Struck: An American Epidemic, this is such a powerful statement but when coupled with playing out the imaginations of those of us who are chronicling the careers of superstars it seems inappropriate for the times.  None the less, the deeper revelation can't be lost either and when read, the reader will, without a doubt, see clearly the many facets of the life of a star.	2003-12-28
US	52778199	R21IC4YOLEEOMT	1583143009	530383197	Blind Faith	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Religious Fiction that Has a Message	\\"Follow your heart\\" is the main theme in Blind Faith.   Throughout this book, faith in God and how people who profess to be Christian are supposed to regard one another makes walking by faith and not by sight a practice, not just a sometimes-overused clich&eacute;.  This book tackles racism and I think Ms. Haley has done a great job of bringing a new way of addressing this sensitive issue.  Introduce yourself to Courtney a recent graduate of Northwestern University who has returned to Philadelphia and a nice job as a marketing executive.  She's returned home to the same tired life she left 4 years ago, she's returned home to her boyfriend Paul who isn't about anything and isn't trying to get anything and Courtney is tired of the same experience.  Her family is head over heels for Paul though.  Her cousin Edwin, a successful attorney is experiencing many of the same feelings as Courtney and family pressures from Aunt Sis really make the story twist.  Courtney receives a call from a classmate of hers Sebastian, who has decided to relocate from Boston to Philadelphia to attend business and law school.  He comes into town and immediately falls in love with Courtney and she is smitten by him as well.  Her relationship with Paul meets a successful conclusion and if not for the fact that Sebastian is white their relationship would grow.  Edwin's brother Jamal also enters the picture and has suffered at the hands of the police department.  Constantly harassed because of his color he continually winds up behind bars.  Edwin, the attorney of the family, is charged with getting him out while calming his mother (Aunt Sis) down and catering to her every whim.  The family dynamics weigh heavily on Courtney's decision to pursue a relationship with Sebastian.  Courtney often wonders why the lessons taught at church on Sunday at Fifth Baptist aren't practiced during the week and throughout the community. The plot twists are dynamic-- race, class and religion are well written and expertly examined.  Each character learns more about their individualist nature and matures from the inside out.  Blind Faith speaks about the way we should conduct ourselves around others.  We should be blind to what the world says is right and have faith in a higher power to do what is right.examined.    Each character learns more about their individualist nature and matures from the inside out.  Blind Faith speaks about the way we should conduct ourselves around others.  We should be blind to what the world says is right and have faith in a higher power to do what is right.	2003-12-27
US	52778199	R1I338VR77IGUP	0446530328	328348948	Joshua's Bible	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Christian Fiction at its best	Christian Fiction cannot better be characterized than by the addition of Joshua's Bible to its ranks.  I must admit that it took me a long time to get to this book, I subconsciously put it on the back burner for a number of months but when I finally sat down and devoted the time to reading it, I was blown away by the level of maturity of the author, the content and story line of the novel and the level of involvement that I as the reader had in the story.  Well written to say the least, a truly enjoyable novel.<br />Set in the 1930's and 40's, Joshua Clay is coming into his own, as a man and as a man of God.  Graduating from Seminary in Philadelphia he is recommended by his Bishop to enter into the mission field even though he has an offer from his home church to be their minister.  Deciding to stay at school, and after another year of intense training for such an honor, he is sent to Africa to begin preaching the Gospel of Jesus Christ to those who haven't experienced Him, as those in the states would like them to.  Pride fills his family as he endeavors to do something so privileged but Joshua has misgivings on leaving and traveling so far that are echoed throughout his family and most especially with his girlfriend who again has to sit back and watch his career blossom without her.  Upon arriving in Africa and experiencing the highly politicized and cultural division between Africans, Americans and Afrikaans Joshua experiences some measure of doubt between his calling and the necessity of his mission.  This coupled with the friendships that he develops among a prominent family in the village that he calls home during his mission changes and matures Joshua in ways he hadn't imagined.  He experiences love, and compassion.  He experiences untold strength and courage and becomes a better man in the mission field.  Joshua's Bible is a love story; a testimony to the way that God moves through our inner being and that is reflected to the outside world.  I was amazed atthe youthful maturity that Joshua displayed and his ability to orchestrate change.<br />Church book clubs immediately come to mind as a captive audience for Joshua's Bible.  There are characters in the book and scenes that are tailor made for discussions in such a setting.  The writing is wonderful, it seems that Miss Leanne has done a wonderful job of researching the characters and plot and combining these elements so eloquently.  I haughtily recommend reading Joshua's Bible to any avid reader, a truly inspiring tale.	2003-12-21
US	52778199	RTFCF3DCTHXPY	031231437X	890800248	Use Me or Lose Me: A Novel of Love, Sex, and Drama	Books	3	0	1	N	N	If you're looking for Drama...	Farah Washington, age 27 is a force to be reckoned with.  Young, talented, gifted, black woman rapidly moving upward in the broadcast journalism field.  This lady has it going on.    Her next goal for her career it to ascend to the early morning show, Rise and Shine as their leading host.  The only thing standing in her way is the station manager, and fellow African American Joan Meyers.  Drama is coming I assure you.   You would think that Farah would have a hot love life but I was pleasantly surprised to find that she suffers the same turmoil that the rest of us do.  Enter Lenox Whitworth, a fine upwardly mobile attorney who charms Miss Farah and makes a few promises that he actually keeps, but you guessed it, he?s a cheater and a liar and Farah feels the effects of this as the rest of us do through weight gain and low self esteem, women you?re feeling me right?  Two self-centered creatures hardly make a lasting romance.   As the story progresses feelings get caught up and the reader is hopelessly drawn into Farah?s life and can?t wait to find out what is going to happen next.<br />I couldn?t put the book down and I?m not usually one to read drama filled books so quickly.  I really sat back one afternoon and totally enjoyed this book.  I can?t say that I knew where it would end up, there were many plot twists and at some points I was really pulling for my girl, and at other times, I was thinking that to be Harvard educated, she wasn?t acting it.  I think she was missing some heart-felt advice from her girls and this was a missing element in the book to me.    It seemed as if she had one devoted friend but she wasn?t much of a friend to her, which stymied their relationship.  I haven?t read the first book featuring Farah but it is on my To Be Read list now.  If you looking for spicy, exciting weekend reading Pick up Use Me or Lose Me, you won?t be disappointed.	2003-12-21
US	52778199	RQU1DF3HZMSUX	0970984138	694735964	I Am Woman: Walking in God's Divine Purpose	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Motivational and Uplifting	I Am Woman is an autobiography of the life of a lady who has realized that God is central to her entire being.  This book is a moving tribute to the power of God in our lives when we want Him present and most especially when we aren't interested in His presence.  I envision that the author and myself are around the same age as some of the history recorded is first hand knowledge to me so I related especially well to this book.  The life of a teenager in the 80's; the college experience; the boyfriend drama, was all so real to me.  Her spiritual beam in constant flux was reminiscent of my life around the same time, which made reading this book a page-turner to me.  I think the best way to connect with this book is on a personal level, let it minister to your heart. I am always touched as a reviewer; at the level of openness authors decide to contribute with their readers. It is always interesting to me to see how sharing one's life experiences can have a lasting impact on others coupled with the tremendous courage that it takes to share such.  I felt this book to be very genuine and can minister to women who are experiencing many of life's bumps and bruises.  I was encouraged with the scriptures that were used in this book.  Many of these scriptures I've read over the years, but never in quite the same context as the author used.  I liked to see the fresh prospective brought about by this book- a sermon in print. Men always seem to want to know what makes women tick, and so I would suggest that this book not only inspire women but men as well. The lessons learned and the verses of scripture quoted and the message shared are universal.  Ms. Givens thanks for sharing a part of yourself as inspiration to others.  I Am Woman is quiet wisdom, the kind that makes reflect inward without being overbearing.  A wonderful job.	2003-12-19
US	52778199	R2UTNOKNW0W7LY	0974171417	19169095	The Cradle Robbers: Bloom (Cradle Robbers Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Beautiful Love Story	Bloom is second in the Cradle Robbers Series of books published by Sadorian and is no less wonderful than the first work, Misdemeanor. The series explores \\"May-December\\" romances and is busy dispelling the myths associated with such courtships.  Bloom is a wonderful tale of love at first sight and acceptance that love is love no matter what the age.  Alex and Lily illustrate this point beautifully in Bloom. Lily Manchester had been married before to a man who celebrated every occasion with carnations.  Lily couldn't stand carnations and I really related to this in the book, feeling much the same way.  However, upon shipping out with the army and leaving the quaint confines of Bliss, North Carolina, Barry Johnson promptly forgot about romance and Lily. Leaving her lonely, Lily decided to open a flower shop to further enrich her passion for flowers, and you guessed it, she never carried carnations.  As the story progresses, flower deliveries were an almost daily occurrence at the shop.  The freshest came in daily and to turn a profit, must be sold that same day.  The regular delivery guy was down and this new driver came and offered his assistance with placing the fresh shipment of Calla Lilies in the green house.  This handsome but young man, Alex was the replacement driver.  It must have been love at first sight for him, as he invited himself for lunch that same day and the rest shall we say, is history.    Lily's concerns about the age difference really stymied her heart from blooming at first.  And that coupled with the prying eyes and nagging mouth of her mothers' friend, Mrs. Miller served as a formidable deterrent to this relationship. Bloom is concisely woven to explore so many minute angles and weave a beautiful love story in between. Bloom is a quick read.  I read it in a few hours and it has left me with the same beautiful thoughts about love, courtship, and romance as Misdemeanor has done.  This series of books is well worth reading for those of us with sappy hearts.  I can't wait for the third book, Class Act.  More books should be written to celebrate true romance and undying love that don't follow the outline of a \\"romance\\" novel.  What a refreshing and enlightening read.	2003-12-19
US	52778199	R3ONFJ7MIB03ZX	0312303068	233324205	Rising	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Gripping, tragic, revealing	Symone has had one hell of a life.  From birth until nine years of age she grew up destitute in the housing projects of Boston with a crack addicted, prostitute mother.  Oddly enough Symone found happiness being a &quot;rare and beautiful bird&quot;, a description used by her mother Deloros to describe her, amongst the ruins of her life.  United at a young age with her friend Ina they made the best of a bad situation up to and including that tragic day when Symone's mother overdosed and died.  Life changed then for Symone.  She always knew that she wasn't black.  Her light skin, the color of her hair told a story nobody needed to verbalize.  She questioned her mother many times but the answers were never clear, there was always a question of who she was.  Rising is the tale of climbing from the depths of uncertainty into the vast world of the unknown and how Symone finds her way.<BR>Symone finds herself a ward of the state after the county burial of her mother.  It is then that she is one of the lucky children in state custody for she is immediately transformed from a project wharf into a high society girl.  She is adopted by the rich Hurston family- &quot;a shameless family with a house at the top of the hill&quot;- in the ritzy section of town, Eden in Michigan.  Her English becomes better, she is transformed from illiterate to a functioning member of society.  She dresses better, she gains her own room which is much bigger than the rat infested tenement that she grew up in, she is transformed into a productive person -on the outside.  Inwardly though, the demons rage.  What seemingly is a life that any of us would envy is pure torture.  It is this torture that is vividly captured in Rising.  I couldn't put the book down, for Symone's life was a winding and twisted strand.  It would unravel and repair itself countless times a literary journey through the mind of a woman who was tortured mentally more than I could imagine.  Spellbound throughout the book, it wasn'tuntil the last few chapters that this gripping tale came together in a fiery ending.  During a Thanksgiving trip, funny how I should pick this book up in November, secrets that will forever change the lives of everyone involved are revealed and dealt with once and for all.  You won't be disappointed taking a few hours to read this book.  I suggest that you push it to the top of your To Be Read list.	2003-11-22
US	52778199	R16WQ39RXBE1BM	0060535423	634421122	Rules for a Pretty Woman	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Issues	Issues.  This woman has issues.  I kept thinking to myself how can a doctor, an Obstetrician/ Gynecologist have so many hindrances in her life, but it goes to show that how things appear on the outside aren't always the case.  Meet Dr. Lenita Mae Faulkner, Lenny.  She grew up in rural Madoosa County, no stranger to struggle, hard work and determination.  She was one of four children, the only one to do her mama proud.  She pulled herself out of her surroundings and went to college, medical school and made a success out of her self.  She purposed at a young age that she must make her own rules and follow them.<br />Rules for a Pretty Woman chronicled Lenny's life as she made her way to Atlanta.  We find that she is involved in a nine-year relationship with Ralph.  As this relationship deteriorates quite suddenly the reader finds that Lenny is again sitting at her journal making a new set of rules for her life, this time concerning matters of the heart.  Her family is very needy of her money, her career isn't as fulfilling as she had hoped, her relationships after Ralph aren't progressing and her mother, who doesn't show her affection well, comes to spend her last days with her.  Her best friend and her even stand on shaky ground.  From all appearances this \\"have it all together, doctor\\" has it going on, but she's miserable inside.  She has issues.<br />A compelling read in that I desperately wanted Lenny to find herself.  Not your typical story where the reader is sure that the main character will find happiness and have a storybook ending.  You have to read to find out.  It pulled at my heartstrings, I wanted to remind her of her own rules when she started to go astray and even help her write some rules that would help her in new situations.  A quick witty read for first time novelist, Suzette Francis, it's a girly girl book, one that I'm sure we can all relate to in some way.	2003-10-16
US	52778199	RD361UNH3LR9Q	0971814880	808681131	Little Girl Lost	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Wow... I was angry and I loved it!	Am I the only one that gets emotional over books?  I can think of very few books that have evoked the type of emotion that Little Girl Lost has caused in me and I couldn't put the book down until I had turned the last page.  I was angry throughout the book for the most part and that was a strange emotion for me to while reading.  I was angry that the 15 -year-old protagonist, Johnnie Wise suffered greatly at the hands of the one person we learn to trust early in our life, our mother.  Her mother sold her virginity to the insurance man, Earl Shamus on Christmas Eve in exchange for Christmas presents and Christmas dinner.  Propagating the sins her mother grievously committed against her, Johnnie's mother was sold off as a young girl as well.  It angered me to see that these two women could sit around and discuss prostitution as if this is normal behavior.<br />Johnnie had the ability to make men wish for younger days and fancier ways.  Although 15, she was built up like a 30 year old woman and surprisingly had the fit and finish of a much older woman. Well versed in the fact that she was robbed of a childhood, I admired her courage to make lemonade from the lemons.  Her many benefactors each granted her something other than money that she could grow from. She learned quickly that she had something worth cherishing and that same something would afford her a better lifestyle.  In spite of her situation, Johnnie extruded grace and poise in spite of.  She walked an amazing line between adolescence and adulthood, still wanting to pursue relationships more age appropriate while fulfilling her perceived lot in life.<br />Little Girl Lost wasn't just about Johnnie, really.  It showcased a mindset of the era.  Set in New Orleans in the 1950's, there are racial overtones throughout that angered me as well.  How black people were supposed to act, and the atrocities that happened, even the nuances of, were wonderfully displayed in this book.  Mr. Johnson touched on topics that are difficult to discuss, and accept, and his mastery of it makes his writing a high priority on my list. I found that though I was angry, which seems like such a negative emotion, I wasn't negative about the book.  I found that the writing provided a catalyst of change within me to affirm the fact that we shouldn't judge a book by its cover or in this case a person by their profession.  Great job Mr. Johnson!	2003-10-16
US	52778199	R3HN0JS3RSORAZ	0375508953	703087621	Trouble Man: A Novel (Strivers Row)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Unusual inspiration	Jermaine Banks is a troubled man, who has had a hard life for his 29 years.  Abandoned even before his birth by his father, it would stand to reason that growing up in the inner city of Philadelphia, Jermaine would be a hardened individual.  Through the incredible tenure of his mother and caring individuals who have been placed in his life, Jermaine is not a statistic in this story and this makes for very refreshing reading.  Travis Hunter, with his third novel Trouble Man has written an unusual kind of inspirational book  <br />Drama surrounds Jermaine's life.  A drug dealer on the streets of inner city Philly who firmly believes that he's providing a service, he's subjected himself to a lot.  He's the father of a precocious little boy named Khalil with whom he's fiercely loyal to, a girlfriend named Erin who is pregnant.  Her family is overly protective of her, which causes crisis for Jermaine.  His best friend is a victim of street violence, he has a rat in his apartment, Khalil's mom has gone to the lesbian side and a knock comes to the door, a man claiming to be his grandfather.  Across town from Jermaine is an even deeper spiral of sewer waste, Calvin Sharpe who is a 51-year-old Real Estate Magnate with a wife and 15-year-old son C.J., and numerous affluences.  Calvin is determined to leave his wife for a white woman and begin life again just because he thinks he can.  When the lives of Calvin and Jermaine collide, trouble is an understatement.   Jermaine has resolved to get off the streets and get Khalil into better surroundings and live life right.  Calvin is hell bent on ruining his. Plot twists abound, but I won't say that the outcomes were necessarily predictable.  Some were even far fetched, but interesting to consider nonetheless.<br />Travis Hunter has continued characters from his previous works in Trouble Man.  Not so much a continuation as a different and varied prospective which makes his writing more readable.  I think that any reader who wants ano nonsense approach to reading would enjoy Trouble Man. If you get the chance to meet Mr. Hunter in person, I would strongly encourage you to do so.  To hear his personality, really adds another dimension to his writing.	2003-10-15
US	52778199	R1TDOAHOAFNVJF	0971814864	52940824	The Cradle Robbers: Misdemeanor	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Excellent Writing	Alright, I don't know whether or not I've become sappier in my old age or what, but this book was so romantic, so moving, so inspirational and hope filled that I'm sitting here typing this review through tear filled eyes. I know that it's a work of fiction but wonderfully told in a short 134 pages that I didn't want to end. The story starts off through the eyes of Malena, age 8, and her perception of the phrase told to her at the time, that \\"Daddy's not coming home\\". Unacquainted with death and the phrases that adults use such as \\"We're going to see Daddy tomorrow\\" and \\"Time to say goodbye\\" Malena and her 10 Year old brother Mitch, hadn't a clue that \\"Daddy had gone to glory\\". Told in an 8 year old's voice, the reader is immediately drawn into the story. The story progresses as Malena grows older, the tenure of the story changes, and more of her life is explored. The family moves from Ft. Knoxville Mississippi to the city of Biloxi where she continues to grow. Despite the tragedy of her fathers' death, the family remains strong, prayerful, God fearing and committed to life.<br />As the story progresses, Mitch goes off to Morehouse and after graduation, marries a wonderful woman and they have a child and he remains ever committed to his family. Malena, two years later goes to college in Atlanta as well, meets for the first time a best friend and relocates to begin her new life. Their mother continues to be an ever-influential part of their lives, their friend and example of how to let go and let God control their destiny. Meanwhile, Malena struggles in love and relationship while all the time knowing that there is someone who is a little younger than her who is hopelessly in love with her. Grant Carpenter. He was a childhood friend who was \\"special\\", knew the bible better than the preacher and had an extraordinary relationship with God. As this \\"cradle robbing\\" relationship grew, the story turned tender, loving, and expectant. Ooh to read the words of this story really provides the reader with hope and a belief that all things really do work for good.<br />The Cradle robbers is a series, this is the first installment. I can't wait to read the other works to follow. The authors/publishers have really taken Christian fiction to another level. If Misdemeanor is any indication of the things to come, the next book can't come about soon enough.	2003-10-11
US	52778199	R1CDWHVKZS4YDD	0595187161	102247132	God Laughs, Too: Incidents in the Life of a Black Chick	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Do You hear what I hear?	Na'Imah is 21 years old and is experiencing life changing events.  The most notable experience is that God is actually talking to her.  She knows for a fact that its God, for she can hear his voice as clear as she can hear her own, but most people wouldn't believe her.  Her life is tumultuous but nevertheless her story is told in a funny sort of way.  Although I don't personally agree with the way that God phrases himself in the book, surely, by my belief in God, this story lends credibility that God talks to us.  Na'Imah expresses as I do, that our conscious is truly the voice of God speaking to us and its good to see that written someplace for posterity sake.<br />Ms. Mahdi has done a decent job of placing us squarely in the life of a young person on the cusp of discovering her true self.  Na'Imah hasn't experienced the best life so far, but then again who has.  She has a wonderful family support system however and that shows clearly in the book.  Her mother parties with her, her brother displays a caring and sensitive side, the weekly gatherings at grandma's house and the hosts of crazy aunts and uncles makes the bonds of family an important theme throughout the book.  Yes, she has a boyfriend Aaron and she treats him indifferently but as you read along, its a family trait. The elements of  romance, friendship and general realism are in this book and you feel as if you're reading an intimate portrait, her diary of 4 months, as you turn the pages.  I felt that sometimes I didn't belong in the story at all, it seemed so personal.  Witty yet full of emotion, Na'Imah's views on things is what makes this book an easy afternoon read that is guaranteed to make you think for a longer period of time than that. Sometimes asking for God's advice and embarking on the journey to taking that advice place you on an interesting path, just ask Na'Imah.	2003-09-27
US	52778199	RXZ1S3PILD9G9	0971819157	744747593	Pick-up Lines	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Gotta Get this ...	Leron King never imagined that as innocent as a one night stand could possibly be, this one experience would turn into a nightmare and form the basis of  the entire story.  Unfortunately this is exactly what happens and it is what keeps the reader glued to the edge of their seat to see just what exactly will happen next.  Michael T. Owens has told a story that has captured the attention of the reader and keeps that reader firmly in his grasp until the end. A story with an unusual twist, Pick-Up Lines had me enthralled.  <br />Leron goes to the club with the boys and they engage in a friendly competition to see who can attain the most phone numbers of the fine women.  Leron engages in a few too many drinks while mingling with the ladies.  He attains phone numbers and in the process gives his  number to a special honey or two.  Naturally the next day when his phone ring, he assumes that because she has his number and although he can't place her face she has to be decent.  He rolls up to her Buckhead condo, (she lives well) still thinking its all to the good.  Upon the answer of her door, he knew he was in trouble.  Trying not to waste the evening and not wanting to ruin the streak of his lucky drawers, he partakes.  The next day, after waking up in his own apartment the nightmare truly begins.<BR>Through a cruel twist of fate, the psychotic one night stand winds up being more of a part of Leron's life than he feels comfortable.  <br />Meanwhile, the female perspective of the story has problems as well. Michelle is engaged to be married and doesn't feel that her fiancé' is truly ready for what she needs.  She's in search of her own, a promotion on her job, and a sense of belonging.  She meets with Leron and collisions happen- both good and bad.   An expose' in relationships, Pick-up Lines truly delivers.	2003-09-26
US	52778199	R36OFWYJVL4M7E	0972809104	881368185	My Love Notes to a Black Man	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Not normally one to wax poetic- this is beautiful	Poetry- My Love notes to a Black Man<BR>Personifies my feelings<BR>Priding our wonderful black men.<BR>Picturesquely written by Lana Reid<br />Pleasant on the eye, on my glass coffee table<BR>Painful (just a bit) on the eye with delicately scripted fonts<BR>Precise in expression,<BR>Physical in illustration,<BR>Pure in heart.<br />Passionately meant to be shared between lovers<BR>Pleasing to the ear of the hearer<BR>Pleasurable to recite,<BR>Perfect,<BR>Poetry in Motion.	2003-09-22
US	52778199	R1J2UK62Z5GARI	0972277161	388748950	The Key Party: A Novel	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Stimulating quick read	Talk about a book that keeps you reading, glued to its pages until the very end and you're talking about The Key Party.  A super quick read because you simply cannot put this book down.  In The Key Party you become acquainted with Nikki, Lynda, Kay and Renee and their 4 men as they explore the possibilities of extending their long term friendship.  The reader becomes engrossed in the various stages of their relationships- the 10 year married couple, the engaged couple, the couple who is exclusively dating each other and the other long term married couple.  Each is open to the idea of expanding their horizons to work toward a better sex life, thus the idea of the key party.  Nikki, the party planner extraordinaire, comes up with this idea.  As the book progresses, the relationships of the 4 couples are further exposed to show the bad sides as well.  Everything isn't always as it seems on the outside.  I will say that the Key Party takes place and by the time the day of the party comes, the reader is torn between wanting it to happen and wanting relationships to stand.  If you don't know what a key party is, read this book.  If you know what a key party is, read this book for ideas.  <br />Each character is reasonably well developed.  Something that isn't found too often in \\"short\\" books.  This leads me to want to request a sequel or at least a continuation to the story.  I think the book ended a little too soon.  These two authors have done a wonderful job of spinning a tale in a concise manner.  The compactness of the book is inviting to the reader, the subject matter is intriguing and compels us to keep on reading.  I'm sure that you can find some similarity in one of the characters which makes reading more interesting and gripping.  There are several plot twists that make the book riveting.  Some of them are predictable but others keep you guessing. I'm sure the authors really have a bright future with their writing.	2003-08-19
US	52778199	R2UKERGYJUPKMD	0970380313	24109887	Threesome: Where Seduction, Power and Basketball Collide	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Not what I expected but kept me interested	Alright, I admit I was expecting from the title of the book, for this to be a kinky accounting of the much sought after male fantasy of a threesome but what I received instead was a nicely crafted tale of a woman who expected more out of life than what was dealt to her.  In Threesome, you will meet Sasha, an up and coming progressive lady who knows what she wants and thinks that she knows how to achieve it.  You will find in the story that Sasha is the 38 year old executive personal assistant to an up and coming NBA all star.  She gets involved with this man, who is already involved in a relationship with another woman.  Having been warned by her friends and family not to pursue a relationship certainly Sasha is in for heartache.  Threesome is a tale of threes all the way around: love, happiness and self accountability.<BR>Sasha has been in a similar situation before and the results were less than favorable.  It was interesting to read to see how this set of similar but different circumstances would turn out.  The whole time I wanted there to be a different result which kept me reading to see how it would eventually turn out.  The twists and turns that the plot took sometimes made me want to slap Sasha for she was much too old to be acting so naive' and other times I wanted to High-five her for doing the right thing.  For the most part though, I thought that sometimes Sasha was hell bent on ruining herself which made me have strong feelings of sympathy for the sad state her life appeared to be in. The story kept me interested even though it wasn't giving me 'how- to' instructions... an easy read that is sure to keep you entertained.	2003-08-17
US	52778199	R2F72L1RDSF5PA	140105756X	360767604	Waiting for Lana	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Real Love Story	A beautiful, but lengthy love story of a teenager named Lana Black; Waiting for Lana is wonderfully written to profile the life of an exceptional young person.  Told from 3 major voices, Lana Black, her brother King Black, Jr. and Lana's most steady boyfriend, Jason Stapleton, this story has the power to grip you and keep you interested.  Although not thrilled with the layout of the book, I was anxious to read the ending and I'll admit that at times I was ready to flip to the last few chapters to see if my suspicions were correct but I resisted that temptation.<br />Lana Black became a teenaged unwed mother at the age of 19.  Coming from a \\"good\\" family her parents, in particular her father, were not thrilled that their oldest daughter chose not to marry the man because she didn't see their relationship as loving.  Here was a man that was willing to marry her out of duty or obligation and with the feelings of love and Lana openly turned him down.  Not to be daunted by her parents' insistence that marriage was the right step for her, she pursued her life as she envisioned.  Her dearest confident, her older brother King, Jr. was also searching for love, this story as much as it is about Lana, is also the metamorphosis of his love life as well.<br />Jason Stapleton has enamored Lana but ill placed words and outside influences have soured their relationship to the point that it seems irreconcilable. It is apparent that they are unable to exist without the presence of each other in their lives but they gallantly try.  Lana even marries someone else.  As the story unfolds, the reader will become enthralled with the level of maturity Lana has, the wonderful supportive backbone of friends and family and the general good nature of the story itself.  Waiting for Lana is a wonderful story to kick back and read over the course of a weekend.  This story didn't dwell on negatives but chose to accentuate the positives that are found in every situation.  This alone kept me reading.It definitely wasn't a story that glorified teenage pregnancy but rather glorified the fact that being a teenaged parent wasn't the end of a life but the end of a chapter, more pages can be turned and positive outcomes can be obtained.  Inspirational would be a fitting adjective.<br />A storybook ending if ever there was one, Waiting for Lana captures the essence of romance found in sappy romance novels without being sappy.  A well-written story that leaves the reader refreshed.	2003-08-14
US	52778199	R392G5N05QCTWZ	0595274501	711490300	Picking Chrysanthemum	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Things are not always as they seem	By all appearances, Chrysanthemum Jackson-Adams has a charmed life.  She lived in the affluent part of town, married to a wealthy businessman, the inheritor of her father's sizeable wealth, able to enjoy leisurely brunches with her best friend Beverly, what more could a girl want.  Unfortunately Chris was a tormented soul. The flip side, away from the public persona, led us to a lady who was unable to bear children, unable to stop her philandering husband, unable to find relief from tremendous back pain and painfully unaware of her family tree.<BR>Chris sought relief from the torment in her life and took the advice of her best friend and confident and went to see a Hindu healer.  A doctor, so gracious and kind, it was only a matter of time until he uncovered the truth, the deep down truth to unlock the torture that Chris was feeling.  Even this revelation scared her more than released her.  It wasn't until her mother asked her to attend &quot;Founding Father's Day&quot; in their hometown of Jacksonville, Georgia that Chris met with her past and relinquished its existence to her present situation and personal growth and triumph was the end result.  Although difficult to comprehend at first, Chris learned far more in her short two day stay in Jacksonville than she experienced in a lifetime in Atlanta.<BR>A touching tale, Picking Chrysanthemum kept me on the edge of my seat.  After reading the first chapter it was difficult to put down for I had to know how these people from the mid 1800's interacted with the present day situation.  A bit predictable as I continued to read, this was a good thing.  I was most intrigued with how the author tied it all together.  I admit to thinking &quot;Why is this black man, writing a story about a white woman&quot; but as I read further it became crystal clear.  The metaphors of high society in Atlanta, in contrast with rural Georgia and the perceived notion of race were wonderfully interwoven to produce a quick and inspiring read.Lets just say that you never should judge a book by its cover or a person by his/her appearance.  Well down Mr. Hampton.	2003-08-14
US	52778199	R3Q4RWENPSYLOO	0967208106	865004557	Why Struggle?; Life is Too Short to Wear Tight Shoes	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Small but powerful	An extremely short read that packs a lot of punch.  Why Struggle is a book that is small enough to keep in your purse or back pocket and carry around each and every day.  The text is easy to read and easy to comprehend and forces you to take a critical look at yourself in bite sized pieces.  Ms. Faison touches upon the most important parts of the human psyche: To Live, To Love, To Learn, To Grow and To Share.  Each page has an exercise to perform that helps the reader reach further into themselves to discover more about what makes them a better person in society.<BR>There were several &quot;ah ha&quot; moments in this books for me, things that I just hadn't thought about in that way the information is presented.  Naturally curious as I am, this only makes me want to share this book with friends.  I liken the discovery of the action filled book with a beautifully wrapped present that one can't wait to open.  An Example that I found to be pertinent to my life is the affirmation &quot;I speak with power and Purpose&quot;.  Sometimes its necessary to be quiet.  To quote from this book: There are many times no response is required.  Be cautious with your words and save your comments for those who will value what you say.  The exercise:  Give your next conversation your undivided attention.  Turn your body to the person, look them in the eyes and open your ears to their words.  Pause for 3 seconds before responding.  If a response in not required, say nothing.    For a person who is always eager to share an opinion, whether solicited or not, this is pertinent to my life and something that I will carry forth with me.  This book is filled with epitaphs that are compact enough to be retained indefinitely.<BR>Take this book with you, in your mind or on your physical person, you can't go wrong with it.  A perfect gift for those in your circle of friends.	2003-08-14
US	52778199	R3CNKWE68IDDLK	0385502648	704634049	What Becomes of the Brokenhearted: A Memoir	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A Tremendously Courageous Personal Gift	Courageous, admirable, heartfelt, heart warming, emotional.  All of these adjectives I would use to describe the memoirs of E. Lynn Harris.  Mr. Harris has taken a great step in life, writing down his life for the entire world to see and make comment on and that takes tremendous courage.  I can only hope for him, that this is a liberating experience and some of the demons that have fought him have finally turned him loose.   Usually not an avid fan of his fictional writing, this chronological autobiography has allowed me to understand more of his fiction and the need that he has for its writing.  Totally inspirational, I've garnered a new respect for this caring, spirited man.<br />The title alone compelled me to read.  To think, What Becomes of the Brokenhearted really is captivating.  So many people walk around life with a seemingly perfect outer shell, inside is totally in a shambles.  Without an outlet to express oneself, we can easily become brokenhearted and disillusioned.  Harris experienced this many times during his life starting with an abusive step father, continuing with a short reunion with his father, his seemingly inability to fit in at school, attempted suicide and general unhappiness with his life.  It seems that he spent over half of his life looking for someone to love him and seeking ways in which to love himself, while those of us who would look at him would see IBM Executive, a workingman driving around in the latest greatest car, always on top of his game.  Many times this search proved tearful for both author and reader.  I found this memoir to be elegantly written and riveting. <br />I applaud Mr. Harris.  He's shared a part of his soul with the world and I appreciate his efforts.  I hope he has found the writing to be therapeutic and those of us who read, take away valuable lessons of understanding, tolerance and hope that people can overcome obstacles and achieve what they themselves find appropriate.  There is a great and uplifting lessonto be learned within the pages of What Becomes of the Brokenhearted.  You can overcome adversity and arrive at achievement.  You Go Boy!	2003-07-22
US	52778199	R2EUQ1U58CQAWN	1401067859	187531062	Loose Ends	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Loose Ends unravel from time to time...	After an approximate year and a half wait, the much-anticipated second book Loose Ends has hit shelves, and it is every bit as dramatic, hot and steamy as its predecessor, The Ties that Bind.  Author, Electa Rome Parks has the gift and she's certainly using it with her second novel.  The characters Brice, Mia, and Christian are back along with Brice's second wife Kree.  Loose Ends is so well written that I was immediately drawn back into the characters and my love/hate relationship with them flourished.  I was most impressed that this book kept this reader engaged until the very last page.  No figuring out what was going to happen, until you read it... believe that!<br />Continuing on in the vein of a \\"modern day love story with a twist\\", Loose ends really winds up.  Brice and Mia are divorced and Mia has married his best friend Christian.  Brice has also remarried, a lovely lady who could be Mia's younger sister, Kree.  All have relocated and settled down in Atlanta.  The focus, after the turmoil that the three friends have faced, is the realization that it is time to reunite the lifelong friendship between Brice and Christian.  Can it be done? How will Mia and Kree react to each other?  How will Christian take to his friend who treated his wife so horribly? Told from the individual voices of four of the characters, Ms. Parks has added just enough sizzle to keep you hot, enough intrigue to keep you guessing, enough selfishness to make you mad, all backed by excellent story telling.  Mia and Christian have an adorable daughter named Lyric and a fulfilling life together.  Brice will always be Brice and Kree is the seemingly submissive wife, totally accepting of his behavior but I wouldn't call their relationship happy.  Things aren't always as they seem however and Brice has major control issues.  Stemming from a hard childhood, these issues have never been explored professionally and the ramifications of his actions moves this story down an unexpected path that hadme up all types of day and night to finish.	2003-06-26
US	52778199	RA6ECA0V4QRC	0060529288	892622269	Maybe You Never Cry Again	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Impressive Insight	There is a serious side to every comedian, and Bernard McCullough is no different. Bernie Mac takes the time, in this autobiography, to share the intimate portrait of his life and pay tribute to those who influenced, inspired, and encouraged him on his comedic journey.  I've enjoyed his comedy, when he toured with The Kings of Comedy, and his television show, but to go behind the scenes really enlightened me.  Maybe You Never Cry Again isn't your typical chronological display of life events that often has you reading the book to fall asleep.  No, if you listen any to Bernie Mac, you can hear him saying the words as you read.  The closest I've come to an audio book without actually listening to one.  The way the words are written is exactly the way your mind imagines that he would say them.  <br />Bernie Mac shares a lot in this book.  I like the way the book was laid out - each chapter had a poignant quote that dealt with the theme of the chapter.  There was a picture of Bernie and/or his family included in each chapter as well which further personalized the book and encouraged the reader to see the intimate side.  Each reader can pick up something that we can carry forward in our own lives.  He's never forgotten from whence he came and he's kept it real throughout his career.  He's been true to his craft, true to his family and true to himself, which makes Maybe You Never Cry Again, a wonderful read.	2003-06-24
US	52778199	R1T4ZHAJJFVT1N	1583142932	776010600	Atlanta Live!	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Too hot to handle	Too hot to handle would describe Dr. Jasmine and the crew of Atlanta Live on 104.9 FM.  Atlanta Live is a lively talk show featuring Dr. Jasmine-great dispenser of timely advice, Malone- the straight man who keeps the women in line, and Evelyn- the sweetheart, oh so compassionate one.  They are on top of their game, Atlanta loves them, until a phone call comes in that turns their world upside down.  Dispensing advice in such humorous quips causes a young pregnant girl to attempt suicide and things begin to spiral out of control.  <br />During the course of the novel, we find that Dr. Jasmine really doesn't have all the answers.  She is not as well put together as one would believe.  Her radio persona and he life don't match up.  She causes undo agony for her co hosts who have problems of their own.  Their worlds could easily shatter as glass hitting the pavement if they succumb to it.   There were many plot twists that kept the pages turning quickly for me.  I was engaged in Evelyn's life.  Her childhood deeply effected her and made her compassionate.  Malone's career and personal problems intrigued me, you never knew where he would turn up and oh Miss Jasmine...take a moment out of your day to pray for her she needs it.	2003-06-12
US	52778199	R2J47YOAEFFI4A	0312307349	605969989	Somebody's Knocking at My Door: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Friendships are enduring	SOMEBODY'S KNOCKING AT MY DOOR is more than a romance.  It is a story that examines the complexities of relationships between men and women, children and parents, brothers and sisters and friends.  The storytelling of the author, Francis Ray is superb as she has the ability to snare the reader before completing the first page.  I was so enthralled with the characters that I had to find out what was going to happen next.  Some of the story was predictable and that's fine too.  I knew what was going to happen mostly because these are things that we've all experienced on the road to maturity and it was interesting to see how others handled situations similar to mine.  You learn a lot from the realistic characters and the masterful craft of telling a story.<br />Set in mysterious New Orleans, Louisiana you will find Ms. Kristen Wakefield and her best friend and next-door neighbor Angelique Fleming.  Both ladies are strong, independent women, who are searching for fulfillment in life and in love.  Kristen hails from an upwardly mobile family and she's decided to take wings and gain her independence from family by moving to New Orleans.  She has a job in an art museum and is busy soliciting art patrons private collections for a permanent display of nineteenth century African American Art.  It is this solicitous activity that finds Kristen in the home of New Orleans premier art patron, Claudette Marie Estelle Thibodeaux Laurent and her much younger, much poorer husband (read gold digger) Maurice.  Amid a scandal for which Kristen was totally unprepared she finds herself in the position of having to resign from her museum job to keep scandal from permeating her career further.<br />Angelique is busy working on her dissertation for her doctorate in Psychology and working as a counselor in a local rehabilitation facility.  Her dissertation can best be described as an expose' in the life of a formal exotic dancer and the socially acceptable behavior of a man's presence in sucha place versus the preconceived notion that women who work there must be addicted to the wrong type of life.  Angelique worked in a club as a dancer her last two years in undergraduate school and takes it personal when she is judged on that alone.  At first it seems unlikely that these two women, from different walks of life, and different frames of mind could be friends at all.  As the story progresses, their friendship is endearing and everlasting.  It's nice to see that friends really don't judge each other on outside merits but rather solely on trust and mutual understanding.<br />Kristen is frustrated clearly with the turn her life has taken in the Big Easy.  She is fortunate enough to have a friend, Rafe' Crawford, who gallantly came to her rescue against the malicious Maurice.  And rescue, as a knight in shining armor he did. Their friendship blossomed and Rafe found Kristen a job at a local art store working with Jacques.  Rafe himself was a fine crafter of fine wood reproductions.  A sweet and tender romance is blossoming between the two but Rafe is purposely holding back his feelings.  Angelique comes to visit Kristen at her place of employ and is introduced to Jacques son, Damien.  Damien is immediately smitten with the vixen Angelique but they don't hit it off well when Angelique doesn't bother to dispel Damien's thoughts about her method of financing undergraduate school.  Two budding relationships teeter on the bar of honesty and implied deceit. Jacques is secretly in love with Claudette and that scoundrel of a husband Maurice is out for love from any young thing and Claudette's fortune.	2003-06-12
US	52778199	R2P75GX8JT4FCH	0312316801	931084222	Minion: A Vampire Huntress Legend	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Lets get it started!	Without further ado, there is finally a vampire book on the scene that has a female heroine.  Congratulations Ms. Banks on successfully centering a story on a strong, bold, independent female that can handle herself in volatile situations.  The name of this \\"shero\\"?  Damali Richards.  Damali is on the brink of turning 21 and is about to come into her full power as a vampire slayer.  Under the watchful eye of her team of guardians and her mentor - Marlene, they pursue battling the creatures of the underworld.  Cleverly disguised as musicians, with Damali as the \\"spoken word artist\\", this band of guardians' moves undetected throughout the natural and spiritual realms searching for vampires.<br />Trouble is brewing.  This \\"ripening\\" that Damali is about to undertake has heightened all of her senses and she's unable to deal adequately with all that is occurring within her.  She emits an aphrodisiac scent that attracts male vampires to her and fiercely goads female vampires to seek to kill her.  The action- and there is a lot of it, once started, is vividly described and is horrifically violent.  To a reader with an overactive and dramatic imagination such as myself, nightmares happened and that's a good thing. A great work of fiction always stirs the reader.  The reader gets an intimate look at the seven guardians throughout this compact read. Multicultural, multifaceted and multi talented, these guardians, hand picked to protect the slayer, make the story a most compelling read.	2003-06-09
US	52778199	R13PV3HKMD5NLI	1400060206	567170419	The Night Before Thirty: A Novel (Strivers Row)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	You Go Girl!	Turning thirty can be a pivotal time in a person's life and it is this period that is chronicled in the book The Night Before Thirty, by Tajuana \\"TJ\\" Butler.   Five women, from all walks of life, come together after entering and winning a national radio contest to join an on-air personality as she celebrates turning 30.  They all share the same birthday, which makes the trip even more special.  Each woman has experienced heartache and disappointment in relationships and sometimes it good to have a little \\"girl talk\\" amongst strangers.  Nothing like airing your feelings between people whom you'll never have to see again.  I think it can be liberating.  What is the atmosphere to spur on this exchange? A contest where the winning prize is a $1000.00 shopping spree, a trip to the spa, and a day cruise to the Bahamas definitely will do the trick.<br />The women, Catara Edwards, Elise Ross, LaShawnda Davis, Alecia Jewel Parker, Tonya Charles and their hostess, DJ Louisa Montero, embark upon this journey.  Each woman has her own strengths and weaknesses and through this weekend together bonds are formed.  They tackle \\"girl\\" issues such as weight and self-esteem, promiscuity, abusive relationships and sexual curiosity.  All done in a succinct manner to keep the story a light and breezy summer read.  Ms. Butler has done a great job of allowing the reader to get to know each character in a short amount of space.  To me, it could have been expanded because I'm still curious as to what happened when the cruise ended for some of the women. Some parts of the story were a bit far fetched in that as a woman, I can't imagine telling all of my business to a total stranger within the course of such a short time span.  But that is how fiction works, sometimes we don't agree but the point is made.<br />Thinking back to when I turned 30, it would have been nice to share the experience with my girls, around a fruity cocktail, reminiscing on life up to that point.  It's nice to see that aslumber party still meets the need of a good session to talk and share life.	2003-05-27
US	52778199	R2K6J74X7RQ0C	0743466985	150243519	The Sisters of APF: The Indoctrination of Soror Ride Dick	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Sizzling Sorority Sisters....	If you have ever thought of joining a sorority, rest assured this sorority is like no other you will encounter, I'm sure.  I'm most impressed that a short story that I didn't want to end as quickly as it did, in Zane's first short story Compilation The Sex Chronicles-Shattering the Myth, was expanded into a full novel.  This is a novel that chronicles the intake process to a very secret society of women. This is a wonderful face paced, action filled read.  <br />A sensual read, THE SISTERS OF APF, contains plot twists that will just blow your mind. Character progression keeps you glued to this book to see how far Mary Ann will travel.  Almost believable that there could be a nationally recognized sorority of this nature, Zane has woven a masterful tale in her signature style.  Not for the faint of heart, reading this book will definitely elevate the blood pressure, it is wonderfully written.  The imagery is very vivid, and begs to be read in a day's time.    Pick up this book if you're a serious fan of Zane' or you've heard so much about her, this is a wonderful introduction to her.  <br />In THE SISTERS OF APF you will meet Mary Ann Ferguson, the eldest daughter of nine children raised on a chicken farm in South Dakota.  Mary Ann has received her undergraduate degree while staying at home to tend to her brothers and sisters but is about to embark upon a journey that takes her to Washington DC to attend Law School and also allows her to bid farewell to her high school sweetheart, Clarence. Upon arriving she meets her resident assistant Patricia Reynolds.  The two begin a guarded friendship.  As the plot thickens, the reader soon discovers that Mary Ann is a novice at love and relationships. The freedoms of traveling so far could go to a girls head, but she does a good job of controlling herself until she falls for a third year student named Trevor, the captivating play boy of campus.  As the relationship between Mary Ann and Trevor matures, so the friendship deepensbetween Patricia and Mary Ann. Patricia realizes APF potential in Mary Ann.  Patricia invites and introduces Mary Ann to the members of the DC chapter of APF.  There we meet Olive, a well to do plastic surgeon, who is president of APF. All the members of this sorority are upwardly mobile women who have acclaimed reputations and harbor this secret society dear to their hearts. You can assume that nobody thinks Mary Ann is a suitable candidate for membership.  Keep reading I assure you Mary Ann really gets involved.	2003-05-27
US	52778199	RA097F4YBI905	0385334281	108801480	Friday Nights at Honeybee's	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Feel the cadence of the &quot;Gathers&quot;	Set in the early 1960's, Friday Nights at Honeybee's is the tale of two women, Forestine Bent of Brooklyn and Viola Bembry of Jasperville, South Carolina.  Two women with vastly different backgrounds that meet at Honeybee McColor's Harlem Brownstone and develop a wonderful friendship.  Viola is the daughter of a preacher man.  Raised in the strictest of households, her mother prides herself on being the wife that does whatever her husband wants.  Nelvern wants her household to be an example of a perfect marriage with a perfect child to boot.  Viola desires other avenues but is forced into submission to her family.  A loveless marriage, a moment of passion and an expulsion from the church find Viola on her way to Honeybee's.  Forestine on the other hand, is a girl that lives in the shadow of her pretty sister and a mother who makes no bones that Forestine is nothing and never will be.  If not for her father Willie, Forestine's hopes would be dashed.  Her father insists that she is a good jazz and blues singer and she is encouraged to follow this pursuit.  This eventually leads her to Honeybee's as well.<br />Once the convergence on Honeybee's takes place, both women seem to develop into their own personas.  Forestine has a promising career, which is only enhanced with her performances at Honeybee's \\"gathers\\" in the Big House. Honeybee and her other housemates are a hoot.  Who wouldn't mind living at the Big House.  Viola comes into her own, a mature young lady who at last follows her heart and does what she wants to do for a change.  The reader can really feel the atmosphere of the Big House with Ms. Smith's writing.  I think she's done a wonderful job of bringing in the essence of blues and jazz into the story.  Friday Nights at Honeybee's has a cadence of its own that starts at the front cover and moves throughout the entire book.  I'm a jazz and blues fan and some of the names mentioned of other performers in the book were real which leads me to believe that Ms. Smith did her homework in preparing for the book.  This always makes a book more grounded for me and I enjoy it a lot better.  The melding of reality and fiction make for an interesting read.  I really took pleasure in learning about Forestine and Viola, how two vastly different lifestyles yield similar results based on good values put forth by two families in two different ways.  Read Friday Night's at Honeybee's, you will be thoroughly caught up and entertained.	2003-05-19
US	52778199	R2DHFU7DZHPYM5	0758200595	899020593	Testimony	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Lets Testify	The way things appear to be is not necessarily the way things are.  Never has this been more apparent than in Testimony by Felicia Mason.  This book made me exclaim several times \\"How did that happen?\\" and that's a good thing.  The plot twists were so wonderfully woven throughout the book that I kept turning pages, excited to read what would happen next.    Testimony is the story of a struggling choir, The Triumphant Voices of Praise, as they attempt to launch a CD tour.  There are a number of mishaps along the way and things start to crumble and people start to unravel.  Ms. Mason has done a wonderful job of character development so that each of the players tells parallel stories in their own voice. <br />This version of the choir is another of Roger's brainchildren.  He's gone through a myriad of choirs and ensembles to get to this point and just when things start to go forward; a tour has been lined up; CDs have been pressed disaster strikes.  Choir members are facing uncertain futures - choir members fall ill; there is infighting, backbiting, and utter chaos.  Certainly disaster looms.  Recognizing the inadequateness in preparation, people are forced to examine themselves.  Is this the right place for them to be?  The relationships are complex enough that each character has value.  I'm really impressed with the way Ms. Mason tells a story. So much so that I want to go back and read her previous works.  I'm hoping the level of writing maturity she demonstrates in this book, isn't new.  Each person has a testimony.   Through a strange turn of events, you will find that you're caught up in the lives of at least 12 different people and though that sounds like a lot to keep track of, you'll be enthralled. This is a Christian Fiction category but it's not preachy.  As a reader, you're not overpowered by religious overtones you're free to enjoy a story that recognizes that some other power has ultimate control and a sense of right and wrong.  I thoroughly enjoyed Testimony, as it reminds us that things aren't always what they appear to be and everyone has a story to tell.	2003-05-08
US	52778199	RNOYJILR83BY9	1556523572	898753483	Lay This Body Down: The 1921 Murders of Eleven Plantation Slaves	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Sad but true	Simply unbelievable!  This book is based on court transcribed events and if it had not been for that simple fact, the atrocities found within the pages of Lay This Body Down would be incomprehensible. This fact based accounting of the 1921 murders of 11 plantation slaves in Newton and Jasper Counties, Georgia is horrific but sadly true.  Yes you read correctly, the year is 1921, not during the officially recognized time of slavery.  Slavery was legally over but a new system was rearing its head in the south - peonage.  Peonage was a practice given prominence by southern plantation owners to employ workers (read enslave) for cheap or at no cost.  If a Negro owed a debt and was unable to pay the debt he would be thrown in prison.  With little to no hope of paying his fine -sometimes in amounts as low as a few dollars- he would sit in prison until...  Wealthy landowners would visit the prisons and pay these menial fines and the person would be released to this landowner to repay the debt.  It could and often did take a lifetime for this person to pay of the debt so they would be Peon's or Slaves to this person.  Such is the case of the people found on the John S. Williams Plantation.  Mr. Williams and his wife and 12 children occupied land in Newton County, Covington, Georgia.  His older boys had plots of adjacent land and too employed peons.  The Federal Bureau of Investigation from the Atlanta office had been called in to look at cases of Peonage - which was illegal, and their investigation lead to the Williams Plantation.  Mr. Williams not being immediately present on the day the FBI came to call, found these revenuers interviewing his hired hand and overseer, a Negro named Clyde Manning.  Understandably nervous and frightened Mr. Manning answered questions posed to him truthfully but they conflicted with Mr. Williams accounting.  Now it was Mr. Williams' turn to become nervous and his remedy was to murder those Negroes who posed a threat to his families way of life.  A cunning man, Mr. Williams had Mr. Manning conduct the murders.  In an unprecedented decision, Mr. Williams was found guilty of murder based on the testimony of a black man and from 1921 to 1966 this did not happen again in a Georgia Court Room.  Mr. Manning was also found guilty but both men were spared the death penalty.  <br />These shocking and horrific crimes were well documented by the author, Gregory A. Freeman.  He did a wonderful job of backing up this true tale with documented facts, figures and pictures.  It's sad that this story had to be told but it illustrates that the south wasn't used to the idea, some 56 years after slavery- that all men are created equal.  It is sad that Mr. Manning felt the need to comply with Mr. Williams wishes to kill his own people for fear of his own life and that of his family.  Sadly not a lot of Georgians know about this case and I'm trying to determine if it is because this is just one of many cases and in the telling of family history this was commonplace.  Read this book not to anger yourself but to get a greater understanding of the true side of history.	2003-05-05
US	52778199	R3EUNZAZQ66UYE	0525947167	241985914	The Hatwearer's Lesson	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Break down that brim girl....	It takes a special kind of lady to be a hat wearer, not everybody can pull it off.  I think that I'm still a little to young to wear hats yet but I most definitely love to see a lady in a hat.  I tell people all the time that I love to wear hats but I'm not old enough to wear them yet.  I could never really pinpoint a reason why I don't feel as if I'm ready, but this book put my sentiments into concrete words.  I don't think I have the wisdom yet to accompany a beautiful brim. I really enjoyed The Hatwearer's Lesson by Yolanda Joe because the characters were so real to me. This was a quick, and witty read.  This book had the most vivid use of characters that I've read in quite some time.  Grandma Ollie could have just as well been my grandmother, because of all of the euphemisms used, brought back so many memories.  Even sitting and holding a conversation while oiling the scalp and brushing hair with fifty strokes was so vivid to me because I would eagerly sit at my grandmothers knee and wait for her to offer words of wisdom.  Reading the book, I could just picture my grandmother, with her hat wearing self, doling out advice in a no nonsense manner.<br />Terri Mills in Grandma Ollie's only granddaughter.  She raised her from birth and taught her to that she could be anything that she wanted to be.  Through her grandmother's thorough planting and rooting of Terri, she was able to pursue her dream of being a high-powered attorney in Chicago.  There she met Derek, an equally successful attorney, and from there it seemed as if a fairy tale romance was abloom until Grandma Ollie couldn't right his name in the family bible.  That was a bad sign.  Grandma Ollie believed in the signs and learned as a child how to interpret them.  Sure `nuff grandma was right.  As the story progresses, the signs that grandma interprets along with her mannerisms, style and wisdom spin a tale of nostalgia and funny wit.  As the plot matures, The Hatwearer's Lesson(s) warm the spirit. Terri isone lucky woman and her life has been a charmed one for the existence and wealth of information that her grandmother has imparted to her through the years.<br />I've not read any of Ms. Joe's previous works but I `m definitely hunting them down after this.  Her writing style is so conversational and lyrical.  The characters jump to life and compel you to keep reading, I simply could not put this book down.  The Hatwearer's Lesson is a quick one-day read that will have you waxing nostalgic for days of yesteryear.	2003-03-31
US	52778199	RI8S0E8CAZT3J	0741412780	156556241	The Great Pretender	Books	4	52	55	N	N	A true page-turner	Talk about a page-turner, The Great Pretender is definitely a book to curl up and read without stopping. From the first page until the last, Reginald will have you wondering what he'll get himself into next and how will he extricate himself from the predicament he's made for himself.  You see Reginald is a man who has managed to live two totally separate lives.  With the help of his boss, who himself is a philanderer; Reginald has been able to sustain and satisfy himself with two families.  Soon the pangs of guilt reach the cold walls of Reginald's heart and he decides that he must come clean to one family and ultimately sacrifice the other.  The Great Pretender that he is finds this decision easy to make based on his perception of how the women involved will handle the news.  He, well he's heartless although he does a great job of pretending otherwise.  Suddenly... oh you just have to read the book to even begin to imagine how his decision plays out.  I'm warning you though, set aside an afternoon to read this, you won't want to put it down.  Reginald is the type of character that you love to hate, he's emotionally draining but wonderfully crafted.<br />The author of The Great Pretender, Millenia Black, has done a wonderful job of weaving and developing several characters in this web of intrigue.  Reginald's best friend, Franklin, plays an important role in the perpetration of this 10-year lie. The women, Tracy and Renee are so completely in denial, they call it love and the children, yes children are helpless victims.  Ms. Black has developed each character so well, that you can sink into each character on a personal level and understand each of their points of view.  I admire authors who can involve the reader at such a level that we want to shout to some characters and lend a soothing shoulder to others.  For this to be her debut to novels, it seems like she's been perfecting her craft for quite some time.  Not overly wordy, but descriptive enough to make your senses crave more. I can't wait to read her further works.	2003-03-31
US	52778199	R3GIV3FLW6PPXE	0399149201	814929291	This Side of the Sky	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A Different side of History	This Side of the Sky is a beautiful story of two life long friends, Myraleen and Lilian, who grew up in Nadir, Mississippi and went on to see and experience the world.  Sometimes tragic yet always poignant, Ms. Singleton's novel is an enthralling read.  The time period of this novel spans over 70 years- from the 1930s when the girls lived with the constant reminder that the color of their skin precluded them from reaching the highest heights, to the year 2000 when color is a hue on one spectrum. <br />It took a good 50 pages to draw me into the characters. Many times Myraleen and Lilian looked at the same situation from different perspectives.  I found it amazing how captivating their friendship was.  It endured a lifetime with hardly a disagreement or regret.  Ms. Singleton's research made This Side of the Sky come to life.  The historical accuracy of the plight of African American's during periods of social change in our country kept the characters fresh and my enthusiasm to read was intensified. The social aspects of their relationships with others made reading multidimensional.  I even received an education, learning that there was a far greater contingent of African Women who served as part of the Women's Auxiliary Corps in World War II than I imagined.  Rising from seemingly hopeless childhoods to become well-rounded, well-traveled, well-versed ladies who enjoyed their lives, This Side of the Sky drew me in and kept me until the end.	2003-03-27
US	52778199	R27PCH3FM15KJE	0446528757	276623285	Joy	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Gods Great Joy	I really enjoyed this book.  Although it took a seemingly long time to read, some parts I had to sit back and digest, it was all worth it in the end.  Joy had many plot twists that kept me reading.  Joy centers around the main character Anya and her professional; personal and daily walk with God.  She's engaged to be married but something always seems to stop her from committing to a date.  Her financial company is booming, she's pulling in top clients but her fiancé' Braxton, is less than impressed that she has to spend so many hours at work and not enough time with him. Church and her pastor are also crucial parts of her life, thankfully Braxton can agree to a certain extent with her belief in God.<br />As the book progresses, Anya is instrumental in being a light of Christianity to her cousin Sasha who has come to live with her.  She has provided healing to her family including her staunch grandmother, Madear.  She led her coworker to Christ, just by living her life as an example and she turned a seemingly tragic incident into the best time to honor God.  A well written, but sometimes too detailed accounting, Joy is a wonderful read.  I think that it will enlighten anyone who reads it.  Ms. Murray did a great job of interspersing religious themes with activities of daily living that we all find ourselves in.  I'm sure Joy will be a blessing to all who read it.	2003-03-21
US	52778199	ROC90BVKPCCGT	0345446429	2087392	Inner City Miracle	Books	4	8	9	N	N	You can succeed despite the odds	The person who we see on television, and recognize as a no nonsense type of character, Judge Greg Mathis has lead an interesting life.  If you watch his program, her very often alludes to his childhood but to get a deeper understanding, you have to read Inner City Miracle. Sure hes brash, but hes real.  The youngest of 4 children, Greg was an oxymoron- a contradiction between what his mother wanted him to be and what he wanted to be.  A student who excelled in class work, but arguably was the meanest bully in school.  Teachers struggled with him great grades but a horrible attitude. His idols were gangsters, pimps, drug dealers- the malcontents of society who always had money and loved to flash it.  Growing up poor, naturally the lure of money was enticing.  His older brothers werent role models for they too aspired to greatness with little regard to the law.  Greg and his siblings were lucky that they didnt meet their maker at a young age.  His mother was the family backbone. She ruled with tough love, often kicking out her older sons until they could prove they were worthy of returning to the fold.  Back to contradictions, he always strived to please her.  His good grades, his weekly attendance in church services, his participation in church activities, his innate need to care for his mother made his other side so unbelievable.  Mother wanted all of her children to succeed but there came a point when she even had to call the police on Greg.  This was the turning point in a troubled young mans life.<br />As Judge Mathis has publicly said on many occasions, the system that sentences so many youth to prison is the same system that helped him become the person that he is today. Defining change came when he was incarcerated and had visiting time with his mother.  She told him that she was dying and that he needed to do something else with his life.  He began from that point forward, a lifestyle that would make his mother proud. The judge sentenced himto get a GED and get a job or he would be back in jail.  He did just that.  He didnt stop there, he went on to college, he worked in city government, he managed election campaigns for Jesse Jackson, he married, he went to law school, and sued for the right to practice law in spite of his criminal background.  His mother saw none of this but he believes that shes with him and still motivating him today.<br />Inner City Miracle is an inspirational story, one that should be read by all of the seemingly hopeless youths of today.  This should be required reading for those in juvenile detention.  There is hope, in spite of present circumstances if you feel motivated.  Judge Greg Mathis, and countless others, are proof.  Out of ashes can rise a phoenix.  Just because things look a certain way doesnt automatically define the future.	2003-03-18
US	52778199	R2NPPKJDH82EPI	0375757589	658784439	Sorority Sisters: A Novel (Strivers Row)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Go Soror!	My hearty congratulations to my Soror, TJ Butler, on her tasteful, respectful and responsible portrayal of life in and out of a historically African American sorority. The fictionalized account of the desire to join, and the actual membership into a sorority is beautifully portrayed in this work.  If nothing than to dispel the myth that sorority is all about `who you know' and the color of your skin, Sorority Sisters is a fine accounting of campus life and the pledging experience.<br />Five African American women, from all types of life experiences are united in a common bond of pledging a sorority.  Sorority Sisters is an accounting of the lifelong friendships that developed through the pledging experience and the feelings of true sisterhood that blossom.  Each lady: Cajen, Chancey, Malena, Stephanie, and Tiara each have their own personal reasons for wanting to be a part of such a prestigious organization.  Each has problems, lets face it, who doesn't, but their ability to work through the pledge process and the ability to share their lives with each other brings about a closeness that can't be duplicated. <br />Ms. Butler has done a fine job in writing a book that exposes both feeling and atmosphere.  Each character is well developed and as a reader I didn't feel the need to stick to one character and follow her through the journey.  The intermingling of characters made the read exciting and fast.  Her freshman endeavor in writing is worthy of praise as I feel she's done a fine job of adequately representing a process that is shrouded in mystery and misunderstanding. Without divulging any sorority secrets, she has brought about understanding in a compact novel.	2003-03-03
US	52778199	R1EZJW7OJ15HZY	0743412656	77649813	Fifth Born: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	To think this could be true...	My heart simply weeps for Odessa, the fifth born daughter of a neglectful, irresponsible mother and a pedophile, child abuser father.  Odessa's childhood was anything but happy.  She suffered mightily at the hand of her father, who through one of his drunken rages almost rendered his daughter blind in one eye.  Her mother, more content with having a man in her life than having happy, healthy, well adjusted children, became very adept at making excuses for that sorry excuse of a husband at the expense of her children.  Odessa desperately sought love and attention from her mother but instead received orders, conflicting messages, and merciless taunting from her immediate family.  Her father eventually took it upon himself to have his way with Odessa and her mother chose to ignore and pacify this horrendous act as well.  Odessa's only solace was her undying belief in the love that she remembered being lavished upon her by her grandmother when the family went back to visit her each summer.  <br />From all accounts, this doesn't seem like a nice novel to read.  It's not for the faint of heart because the topics are difficult to talk about and even more difficult to understand but let me assure you that this book should be read.  Ms. Lockheart has a different perspective on the situation that causes the reader to keep turning the pages.  Odessa has resolve, Odessa has character and she is occasionally reassured by her older sister and other members of her extended family that know what a child needs.  The ending is spectacular and for that reason alone endeavor to read Fifth Born.     Generational curses are followed in this novel and I can see how Odessa's mother didn't learn how to handle crisis as a child.  She never saw her mother handle situations appropriately but thankfully someone realized that wrong was wrong and shouldn't be propagated any further.   I can only hope that this was purely fiction from the author's standpoint.  This debut novel has excellent writing and immediately draws you in.<br />Heart wrenching, yes this novel is, but well worth the read.  For all of the Odessa's in the world this fictionalize accounting of the atrocities of childhood, the time it takes to read and let Odessa sink into your psyche is well worth it.  If I were the author, I would hope that this work would spur people to pursue with vigor, the protection of innocence in children.	2003-03-03
US	52778199	R1C3VC399635XW	0821228420	383957092	Unchained Memories: Readings from the Slave Narratives	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A Beautiful Book	\\"...Oh freedom, Oh freedom, Oh freedom over me.  And before I'll be a slave, I'll be buried in my grave and go home to my Lord and be free\\"<BR> __Old Negro Spiritual<br />The words of the spiritual above must not have been uttered to these beautiful human beings who have graciously allowed interviewers from the 1930's Governments Works Progress Administration to chronicle their life stories.  For if the words above had been uttered, the slave experience, from an intimate and painful point of view, would never have received the credence they due.  Tales of slavery are still passed down from generation to generation, and traditions still are followed but to see a book like Unchained Memories is special.  Quite simply, this is a beautiful book.   I'm so thrilled to have been given the opportunity to read it and experience it and learn from it.  I can treat the book as a textbook, a factual accounting of the lives of former slaves who have wonderful stories that they don't mind sharing with the world.  For that reason alone, this book has earned a permanent place on my coffee table, for all who enter into my house to experience.  Something about the actual words of former slaves bound in book form validates an agonizing time in American History.<br />Unchained Memories is well researched and magnificently laid out.  At the beginning of every chapter is an introductory text that accounts for the tenure of the time, followed by a poignant quote and then brief narratives begin.  My one regret is that the narratives are so short, when biographers obviously spent a great deal of time with these people.  I am grateful that there is an extensive bibliography at the back so that I can, at some point, go and read the entire account by the former slave.  Oh where will I find the time?  If you read this book, I would highly suggest that you get a copy of the HBO documentary of the same name and watch it as well.  There is nothing like \\"hearing\\" the words spoken by African Americanactors of today in the vernacular of the time.<br />I'm glad that Unchained Memories was published, and quite fittingly made its debut during Black History Month.  These former slaves are the reason why Black History Month is perpetuated now and a fitting tribute for remembering from whence we as a nation have come.	2003-02-26
US	52778199	R3F8M8ZGGIMO3X	0609610147	627092281	The Ecstatic: A Novel	Books	3	13	15	N	N	There is a love/hate relationship going on here	If ever I have felt a love/hate relationship with a book, The Ecstatic would be the book that deserves this honor.  I'm still reeling from the pages and the life that main character, Anthony Jones, lives.  Anthony is a 318-pound schizophrenic, who is plagued with the same affliction that affects his grandmother, mother and little sister.  The story centers on the mental journey surrounding food addiction and the lack of treatment for the families' mental afflictions.  On the one hand, I see why Anthony weighed as much as he did; on the other hand it was disgusting how his extreme low self-esteem affected him physically and mentally.<br />The Ecstatic will definitely take the reader on a ride.  Starting with the extraction of Anthony from his college apartment where he was living in mental collapse while attending Cornell University, the story finds Anthony living in the basement of the home his mother, grandmother and sister share.  Faring no better in these circumstances, where his family has imposed severe eating restrictions on him, Anthony seeks friendship and counsel from one Ishkabibble, the neighborhood street banker...(read loan shark here).  Everybody in the neighborhood has something owed Ishkabibble  (I loved the name, say it 3 times fast) and he takes advantage of this and Anthony by loaning him money to write a book, and using him as his heavy. The home life fares no better when Anthony's little sister participates in a beauty pageant for vestal virgins and they quite literally lose their mother while on this trek to the south.  How can I forget to discuss Anthony's friend who infuses himself with a case of botulism to induce rapid weight loss and tries to get Anthony to join in.  Just who is schizophrenic in this instance?<br />The Ecstatic takes a myriad of twists and turns that I found to be quite confusing.  However, the dark humor in the book sent me into sidesplitting fits of laughter on several occasions.  This isn't a book to pick up you're looking for comedic relief but it is a pleasant aside.  If you are searching for an in depth exploration into a weakened mind, this book can take you there.  The unique characterization of Anthony and the adventures his life follows really makes you wonder how many people are suffering as he.  I found that I loved the comedy, hated the reality but understood the quandary both created to make The Ecstatic a well-written novel.	2003-02-03
US	52778199	R1916E14SV5BO8	0758202466	771041530	Thunderland	Books	4	3	3	N	N	My pulse rate increased	In my (not so humble) opinion, there is nothing better than a spine tingling, edge of the seat; nightmare stirring horror novel and Thunderland has just that.  This novel has all the elements that heighten the senses and make it simply irresistible to put down.  Brandon Masseys writing ability in his first novel is superb and as the author of many short stories, Im compelled to find them and read them as well.  Thunderland simply has put the horror genre back in the forefront again. I found myself up until the wee hours of the morning, anxiously turning pages to see what exactly was going to happen.  I was probably up so late, because I was scared to sleep, truth be told.  Thunderland is not exactly a psychological thriller, but it demonstrates the stretch of the human imagination as a powerful tool or weapon.<br />Jason is 13 years old with a quite active imagination, and the most under active, under involved parents possible.  He is the protagonist in this novel and the things that his imagination does to him, the places he travels with his imagination and the fact that he can take his friends, Brains and Shorty, along is what makes this book a thrilling page-turner.    Mr. Magic the evil imaginary friend rounds out a well-developed cast of characters.  There is action, intrigue, mystery, and suspense along the way.  The other intriguing plot twist to Thunderland is the inclusion of complex and well developed relationships between, mother and father, father and son, grandfather and grandson, mother and son, friends, enemies and most powerful of all imagination and reality.  Though the relationships might not ideal, it is through the masterful writing of Mr. Massey that we can know this.   The brisk pace keeps the book fluid.  A few steamy scenes and a few more choice words keep this book out of the hands of young adults, but many who are mature in their reading would enjoy this book as they can relate to Jason.<br />The next time I hear thunder roll on a quiet night, it will definitely bring Thunderland back to my remembrance.  The true hallmark of a good horror book can best be summed up by how much the book can raise the pulse rate of the reader.  Lets just say my pulse has been elevated with the reading of this novel.	2003-01-22
US	52778199	R2SD9PQ9KSBT3	0970880812	511022714	Just Like Your Daddy	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A cliche that needs exploring	Just Like Your Daddy is a gripping tale of a man's struggle to not succumb to the same lifestyle that his father never successfully extricated himself from.  A story of a boy who grew up with a loving and supportive mother who went through a lot to keep her only son from becoming just like his daddy.  The story moved quickly, the years passed it seemed at almost the turn of every page, but at the same time was easily understood and easy to follow.  The characters were clearly defined which aided in such a quick progression.  Horatio, the main character in the book overcame a lot of heartache to become the man his mother worked hard to craft.<br />Horatio was named after his grandfather, a staunch Baptist preacher whose daughter became pregnant out of wedlock and moved to Memphis to keep down scandal.  Growing up was easy on Horatio but hard on his mother. She wanted it no other way for her child and worked very hard to support him. She had to contend with a man who didn't want to be a father, and the death of her husband who was the perfect father.  Horatio's life became difficult when his mother decided that he should forge a relationship with his natural father during his teenage years. Just Like Your Daddy was not used in a complimentary tone at this point.  <br />Horatio's life was filled with both happiness and heartache. This book goes through a wide range of emotion from a lot of the character's vantage points.  I read the book in one sitting.  It moved fast enough to keep my interest and I genuinely wanted to find out about Horatio's life and the affects, both positive and negative, the cliché of being just like your daddy had on a man.  While the writing could have been better, some parts could have used more detail, overall this is a book well worth your time to read.	2003-01-19
US	52778199	R3MJEKJ3H9W65D	0595256775	839454551	Scooter and the Galactic Starship	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Scooter should be here to stay	Scooter is a 10 year old with a problem. The latest greatest video game is about to burst on the scene and he just has to have it.  One big thing is stopping Scooter from achieving his goal... money.  The game costs an astonishing amount of money and his allowance doesn't cover the cost, further compounded by the horror of horrors to all children.  His mom and dad have decided at this critical moment, to make scooter accountable.  His mother said that she would buy him nothing else until his birthday so if there is any hope of getting this game on its first day of issue, Scooter will have to buy it himself.  Scooter and the Galactic Starship is a charming book that details the adventure that Scooter goes on to get this game.<br />Wonderfully written, Scooter comes to life throughout the book.  We can all relate to that fateful day when our parents told us that we would have to save and get whatever we wanted right then, for ourselves.  As an adult reading this book, I wanted to say to the father, a compulsive spender, go ahead, he's working so hard for it but I know that attitude wouldn't teach Scooter anything.  As an adult remembering back to childhood, I know that my mom was right, I would appreciate it more if I worked for it.  This is an excellent book for teaching the value of money with a theme that children can relate to today.<br />The characters are well developed, easily understood and multi-dimensional.  This is a refreshing read for children as well as adults.  This is a story with down to earth morals and common sense.  Mr. Robinson, the author, should continue writing children's books for his first entry deserves a follow up.  I would suggest continuing with Scooter as the main character in a theme series.  Scooter will stick with me for a little while and I'd be interested in reading any of his further adventures.	2003-01-19
US	52778199	R2ADL5S3IF9OL3	0670850136	764542255	Billy	Books	5	2	3	N	N	I'm disturbed, I'm grieved, I'm Crying	Powerful best sums up this book.  This book spoke to me on a number of different levels all going back to deep seated racism.  The acts of 1937 as described in this book still continue in 2003.  When are we going to be able to say that it has finally come to an end.  Billy, only 10 years old, a child in every way is convicted of the murder of Lori Pasko a firey tempered 15 year old red headed white girl.  True he did it, but there was no such thing it seemed as self defense.  The parties that were there at the time of the murder admitted that Billy- young, scrawny, frightened, was trying to get away but Lori kept coming.  His remedy in a child's mind was to fight back with his knife.    Those are the facts.  My anger comes in to play when his friend is made to testify against him, he's not allowed to see his mother, it doesn't seem he was given benefit of seeking counsel.  He doesn't understand the charges that are brought against him, he doesnt' understand the system and nobody is going to explain it to him either.  He is black, no matter what the age, and because of his race he'll pay the ultimate price.  He's 10 and on death row and the great state of Mississippi carries through with it.<br />Read this story, it will affect you, you will feel something with this work of fiction.	2003-01-14
US	52778199	R7JNQ5PQYM7GN	0446529427	602661748	Growing Up King: An Intimate Memoir	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Interested in Exploring the King Family?	Everyone has a story to tell, and Growing Up King is the life story of the third child of the late Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.  Dexter King has not had a life that many of us would envy.  Nor has any member of his family, most difficult I would imagine would be the tremendous burden cast on Mrs. Coretta Scott King who was thrown into single motherhood with 4 young children.  It is no secret that the last name of King can be perceived as both blessing and curse.  I live in Atlanta, where the majority of this story takes place and find that around town we have expectations of how the Kings are \\"supposed\\" to be.  They are, maybe incorrectly elevated, to the status of royalty among the African-American community, and that can certainly prove to be difficult to handle.  This is well-intentioned adoration, but non-the less made difficult to handle as children and Dexter has found that it gets no better in adulthood.  It is this dilemma that somewhat serves as imputes to the writing of this book.<br />Make no mistake, I've learned a lot more about Dexter King and the King family in general but literarily speaking, Growing up King is poorly written.  The story is chronologically told, but jumps around quite a bit in thought and expression.  He jumps from his thoughts, to the thoughts of those around him to actual dialogue quite a bit which makes it hard to follow.  Further, if you aren't familiar with the geography of Atlanta and some of the prominent figures in Atlanta politics or the Atlanta community you might have difficulty following the massive amount of name and location dropping that is found in the book.  A case in point would be the fact that he talks about seeking privacy, protection and peace for his mother while giving out her address where she still resides today.  Another interesting dichotomy is the striking resemblance in the tone and tenure of Growing up King with its predecessor, Growing up X by Ilyasah Shabazz daughter of slain Nation of Islam leader, Malcolm X.    My instant impression, and my impression especially after reading the book, was that Dexter was trying to follow in someone else's footsteps, still not finding his personal way, because he thinks that is what is expected of him.<br />I gained greater insight to this quite, unimposing man.  I learned a great deal about him personally and I appreciate the fact that he felt comfortable enough to share himself with the world.  He shares a lot, and in my opinion, maybe a bit too much but everybody has a story to tell. If you are a fan of the King family, read Growing up King.	2003-01-13
US	52778199	RYL9VSF95TEPF	0446528307	961851587	Leaving Atlanta	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A nice blend of fact, fictionalized.	Growing up in Atlanta during the times of the Missing and Murdered Children epidemic was quite traumatic for youngsters of the time.  The year was 1979 and the age most affected were fifth graders in and around the inner city.  A sense of security was shattered during this time, never to return again.  This is the time and age period the author Tayari Jones explores in this fictionalized accounting of these tragedies.    Leaving Atlanta is written in three parts, each in a different voice, based on three characters: Tasha, Rodney and Octavia.   <br />I became so engrossed in the book, taking on the lives of the three characters, so much so that I found myself wondering what was going to happen to them.  I found that I couldnt wait to turn the page to make sure that each was safe.  The situations they found themselves in certainly leant themselves to being a victim but as the horrific crimes progressed, it brought about understanding even to a childs mind.  The families take on the crimes also changed considerably between the first and the last incident.  I believe this is where fact merged with fiction and made this book almost seem non-fiction.  The mention of a prominent television anchorwoman further personalizes the story, not to mention that this anchorwoman is still on local TV and still has the same persona.  I especially like that the author included herself in each section as another child in the classroom and therefore, in the situation.<br />Ms. Jones was a child living in Atlanta during this time so she is well suited to write Leaving Atlanta.  Her first novel, she has done a masterful job of drawing out the perceptions of each of the main characters and exploring their lives.  As a long time resident of Atlanta, the children of this time have matured to adults and talking with them, many have the same perceptions of the children portrayed in the book.  I think this book is the perfect blend of how a fictionalized version of an actual series of events should be written.  I must warn readers though, that the book doesnt have a happy ending.  As fact will bear witness to, 29 children met with tragedy and many believe that the serial killer that was convicted of two of the crimes was a copycat, and that the actual perpetrator of these horrific crimes still is free today.  Take this book as bitter medicine to reality.  Watch for more works from Ms. Jones, she has a future in writing.	2003-01-13
US	52778199	R2CBFO8QLAGNOP	074344289X	550574290	The Heat Seekers	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Just the Right Touch	The Heat Seekers is a tale of two couples that take very different paths down the road toward love and marriage.  The protagonists, Tempest and Janessa are best friends.  Both come from very different backgrounds but have been friends since childhood.  Tempest is clearly Janessa's ticket to a more prosperous future.  The crux of the plot begins when Janessa pesters Tempest to go to a nightclub and during this \\"mission of mercy\\" they both meet Mr. Right.  Their names are Geren and Dvonte'.  The Heat Seekers is based on the paths that the resulting relationships pursue.  <br />Tempest and Geren struggle with guilt and misleading information but their relationship matures to the point where they can evolve themselves.  Janessa and Dvonte's relationship is more hot and heavy and seems to sputter frequently to remain afloat.  Reading this book makes you take an in-depth look at the foundations relationships are built upon along with the maturity levels of the two parties involved.  The title of the book really hits home with the relationships portrayed in the book.<br />I think that Zane' is maturing as an author with this book.  She is heralded as an up and coming literary figure in erotica and her books are reflective of some of that tone.  The Heat Seekers is not packed with steamy love scenes as some of her books are.  She has matured to demonstrate the feelings that the couples experienced rather than just raw acts.  I wouldn't classify this book as erotica in any way.  It is a romance novel, with a storybook ending.  The Heat Seekers is a refreshing read.	2003-01-13
US	52778199	R23SDVT1YUN6U7	1583142991	124897921	No Regrets (New spirit)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	No Abideth Faith, hope and Love	What a moving and motivating book!  I thoroughly enjoyed my glimpse into the lives of Johnny and Karen Clark, Tyrone and Connie and Tina.  This book is multi faceted and I interpreted it on many levels.  There is the story of love, the story of triumph over illness, the renewing of faith in God and heartache.  All three of the women, Karen, Connie and Tina suffer from cancer in one form or the other.  Johnny and Tyrone have been best friends for a number of years and the friendship they've forged has grown deeper with the illnesses of their wives.  Johnny struggles with faithfulness as he reacts to his Karen's seeming rejection of him.  His interpretation of her reaction makes him feel that her love is wavering.  Tyrone, every bit as much a playboy as Johnny, turns completely toward his wife, his love ever increasing.  Tina has become cynical of love and has become a self confessed male basher after her husband left her due to her cancer.     <br />As the story progresses, feelings are examined from a lot of different viewpoints.  Johnny and Karen have children.  Their reaction to their mother's cancer is explored.  Johnny struggled with working to provide for his family and his lack of time spent with the family he worked so hard for.  Tyrone, the pillar for Connie, struggled with keeping it together.  Connie, the pillar for Tyrone, showed great effort in making the time they had together memorable.  Tina wrestled with her cancerous feelings.  Although the disease had been removed from her body, her feelings of anger were just as consuming.  <br />No Regrets isn't just centered on the effects a serious illness can have on family, but really explores faith.  Johnny could care less about religion.  It's all right for his wife to be so involved and for his children, but church isn't high on his list of priorities.  As the story progresses, priorities shift, and Johnny is renewed.  Connie, the quiet and virtuous woman, is instrumental in demonstrating awe-inspiring faith in times of adversity.  I Corinthians 13:13 states: And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of these is charity.  This was truly demonstrated in this inspiring book.	2002-12-09
US	52778199	R17TAPAH9CMZGA	0060959274	251599419	The Justus Girls	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Gripping Tale	The Justus Girls is a novel noting the lives of four girls growing up in the 60s in Philadelphia.  The story starts out with the murder of Peaches, and it is this event that brings the remaining three girls back together again after many years of absence.  At first the book was hard to follow, it seemed to skip around a lot, but as I began to know the characters things that I had read, fell into place and the story progressed nicely.  Some of the things that happened to Peaches, Jan, Sally Mae and Rachel while they were growing up are really hard to imagine and might not be for the faint at heart. Unfortunately, child abuse is all too real.  I'm always looking for a point or purpose for a story being told and I think Ms. Lambright was able to capture a fundamental truth, that adversity doesn't determine ability.<br />I had a hard time with the title of the book when I was deciding what order to read the book from my \\"To Be Read\\" pile.  I wanted over and over again to say \\"Justice\\" and could understand why it was spelled incorrectly.  As the story progressed and the four formed a drill team, the title became clear.  Just Us... nothing pretentious about them, they were just themselves. They were able to discipline themselves and provide structure and direction.  Everything they achieved was self-taught.  They became known as the JG's-the Justus Girls.  As with all friendships, there were problems, but never a setback big enough to separate them permanently.  Certainly they didn't all agree with the others choices about how to live their individual lives, but there was no judgment or condemnation among them, mutual understanding, love and respect. <br />The Justus Girls is action packed and I'm sure it contains something for everyone.  There are a couple mysteries to solve, romances to follow, a reunion of long lost family members, a little of the Vietnam conflict, an in depth study into the world of a pimp who is all powerful.  Some parts of the story kept me on the edge of my seat and I just couldn't put the book down.   I couldn't decide which of the 4 girls lives I wanted to read more about which is a good thing.  I think Ms. Lambright did a wonderful job of exposing just enough of the girls to make the reader satisfied that we were included.  It was all told at just the right point in the story to keep you reading.  This was a well-crafted novel that improved the more you continue to read.	2002-12-05
US	52778199	RLWFFU1YF8JB9	0446527998	734163607	Church Folk	Books	4	0	0	N	N	I didn't know there was an author in my congregation	I simply was not aware that Ms. Bowen was a member of my church.  I've been attending my church for 3 years now and I have the distinct privilege of being in the inner-sanctum so to speak, and I can't find Ms. Bowen's name on the roster anyplace, but it just has to be there. I think I have to call my pastor to see if he knows that we might have a published author in our midst.   Church Folk has hit the nail on the head in its fictional account of the goings on with down-home southern churches and had me bent over in laughter while I read the story.  Many times I laughed out loud, violently shook so that people asked me what was so funny.  I read entire pages out loud to company and by the time I was through, one girl laughed until she cried.   This was simply a story that I couldn't put down.<br />A love story would be the first side to this story.  Reverend Theophilus Simmons is undoubtedly a man, despite a clerical collar, subject to the temptations any other human is faced with.  He's young enough to recognize that he's but a man and makes a concerted effort to separate on occasion, church from personal life.  One of these times has surfaced when he met Miss Essie Lee Lane, who isn't the least bit impressed that he's a minister or anybody else.  Nosey family, of course, sees differently, a minister is a fine catch and Essie, deep down feels the same way. Their budding romance can be best characterized by the word-sweet and gives hope that love really is this special.<br />The equally as interesting second side of the story contains a myriad of scandals that abound within the fictionalized Gospel United Church Denomination.  Not one section of the denomination has been left without thorn.  The undisputed power of the person who contributes the most in tithes, the politics of the local mortician and the distribution of their fans amongst the pews, the church tramp, the young women who flock to the congregation of the new young single pastor, the \\"high and mighty\\" bishop's widow and her granddaughter that just must marry a preacher, the romance between bookkeeper and pastor are all explored.  Oh and how can I forget neither the fierce hat competition nor the outrageous one-of-a-kind outfits that have the distinct pleasure of being referred to as \\"church-going to meeting\\" clothes. You won't want to miss a single page while reading this book.<br />Set in Mississippi in the early 60's Church Folk is hilarious.  Even in 2002, it speaks volumes of the goings on now and you can't help but laugh when you see people you know between its covers.  I especially like the paperback version that contains the Readers Group Guide.  Although the story is fiction, the discussion questions illicit thoughts relevant to today, and helps us explore the very real themes throughout the book.  Love does happen, read the Song of Solomon, there are virtuous women, read Proverbs 31 and this is put in proper perspective within the Readers Group Guide.  If you call yourself \\"Church Folk\\" take this book to church and get your girlfriends to read it, and have a meaningful discussion at the end.  I know I will.	2002-09-25
US	52778199	R25M7IP557OEM1	1585710687	933729027	Still Waters Run Deep (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Realistic Romance Novel	Quite simply this book is a beautiful tale about love lost and found again.  After a 20-year pause, Antoinette and Jerome have found each other again. This time, nothing shall separate them.  Still Waters Run Deep is a story full of passion- sweet, mature, rewarding and profound.  The rejuvenation between two kindred souls makes this novel a must read, a definite addition to any well rounded book collection.<br />Antoinette is a savvy businesswoman- Jerome is blue collar.   The two met in high school and family influence being what it is, separation soon followed.  Antoinette went to college and Jerome went to the service.  Two lives separated, but hearts still together.  Hurt soon followed, of course.  Two lives separated and hearts divided as well.  Both Toni and Jay (pet names for each other) married other people and had families.  Separated lives, divided hearts and other spirits to intertwine.  But through it all, that which is lost shall be found again.<br />A major facet of Still Waters Run Deep is the theme of family tradition, the passing on of a rich heritage and the assurance that the past is never forgotten; only enhanced.  As such Toni has been passed on the family torch of preparing the Easter feast and becoming the caretaker of her family.  She is preparing to take over as the head of a sisterhood who speak in a mystical female language.  Toni is preparing herself for the role of queen bee to her family.  She embraces the task of providing a place emotionally for the sustenance and support of every member.  A formidable undertaking but as the eldest, those before her have groomed her for this position.  Jay loves her all the more for strength and ability.  He notices how she can behave as a mother bear fiercely protecting her own, a loving vixen, attentive to his needs and the love that lay dormant for 20 years sparks to life.  What more could any two people want and need.<br />If ever a book, I wanted to find myself in were written, I would have to say that Still Waters Run Deep would be the one.  The simplistic beauty of love, the intrinsic complexity of family dynamics, the strength to meld the two together seamlessly make this novel fascinating to read and memorable.	2002-09-05
US	52778199	R19EOQ3O7D2AQP	006000732X	87270598	May December Souls: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Can we say- Repeat?	I liked the writing and the style of May December Souls, truly, but overall I feel that this has been done before.  How many times must we examine the relationships between older women/younger men? They exist, and obviously make great fodder for novels.<br />Aside from the fact that this is a repeat, I think Ms. Monteilh's freshman endeavor proves that she is on her way to excellent writer status.  She captured the heart and soul of Mariah quite well, Mariah's zeal for life, and her expectations and feelings mirror many.  I think, that Mariah could continue in a sequel, and THAT hasn't been done before.  The characters of this book, are real.  You can just feel then permiate through people that you know and you can feel what everybody is going through.  Not an easy feat for an author when the ever present temptation is to leave someone undeveloped to further highlight the protagonist.  I think Ms. Monteilh is on her way and this book shouldn't be passed up for the story line, but should be explored for its literary development.	2002-09-03
US	52778199	RB17XD1XLXHJD	0671040839	288426258	The Living Blood	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The best Sci-Fi I've read	I've never been quite so impressed with a book.  This was simply the best read I had all last year.  The story kept me on the edge of my seat the entire time I was reading it.  I could literally feel the story taking place as if I were there.  I would recommend that everybody read this book and add it to your permanent collection.  <br />I wish that Tananarive Due continue to write.  I can't wait to read any works from her.	2002-05-22
US	52778199	R1PNCVIRJPRBE6	0738854522	419199683	The Ties That Bind	Books	4	4	5	N	N	So hot it sizzles!	One look at the title immediately made me start humming the familiar doxology that bears the same name sending my imagination on a far-reaching journey. All I can say is oops, wrong tune. A doxology is a short prayer or hymn of praise that extols the glory and majesty of God and I soon found that some of these ties were haunting past experiences. The back cover, in juxtaposition with the title, can in no way prepare you for the emotional and steamy journey this book takes you on.   Immediately you are pulled into the lives of Christian, Brice and Mia.  So much so that you find yourself thoroughly controlled by literary prose.  You'll soon find that your only reaction is to feel the heat of your emotions.  Electra Rome Parks has hit the nail on the head with her matriculation onto the publishing scene.<br />The precipice of any relationship can bring us so dangerously close to destruction that you have to depend on the ties that bind. This novel can be a bit raw in language and content, and certainly isn't for the faint of heart, but is a story that has to be told.  This book is so hot, that you turn pages quickly to minimize the burn.  The love scenes are passionate, the characterization of Mia is especially endearing and each character's reflection is poignant. Couched under the guise of fiction, unfortunately it didn't take me long to put a person I knew into each of the roles of the main characters. I could do this, without too much thought which looking back is scary.  This odd triangle is sadly, all too familiar but nonetheless, they kept me on the edge of my seat to the end. I found myself almost praying for swift resolution without belabored pain. Love can and will take you on the most poignant expedition you'll ever experience.   The choices one makes in the name of love can destroy you but is a risk that you must be willing to take as each character found out in their own way. <br />The...typical domineering male, the child like innocence of one with rose colored glasses on and the stoic resolve of a contemporary \\"playa\\" intertwine to make this \\"modern day love story, with a twist\\" as Ms. Parks put it, really ring true.  Certainly this should not be Ms. Parks last novel, she has a future in front of her.  She is well on her way to mastering the art of storytelling.  You'll find a moral in this story.  Maybe delicately placed to seem almost unintentional, but I found it!  Read it, relate to it, check the ties that bind you!	2002-05-22
US	52778199	R2AUT67PRQSPZ8	0060927267	982558758	The Between	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Future is Bright for Ms. Due	Ms. Due definately has a career ahead of her as a best selling novelist.  If works like this are any indication, Science Fiction will be taken to an entirely new level.  I'm not normally a fan of the Genre but I can't wait to read anything Ms. Due writes.<br />This book keeps your interest from page 1.  Makes you afraid to fall asleep at night, and sticks with you for a long time.  I suggest you get a Tananarive Due shelf in your library and fill it up with everything she writes.	2002-05-22
US	52778199	R1JGKXFCNS0USI	0446530662	187964672	Showing Mary: How Women Can Share Prayers, Wisdom, and the Blessings of God	Books	3	16	18	N	N	Powerful metaphor of pregnancy	The author does a wonderful job comparing and contrasting spiritual pregnancy against real pregnancy.  An immediate &quot;To Be Read&quot; book for women of color who desire a closer walk with the Holy Spirit and are undergoing change in their life.  Keep this book on your shelf for reference and meditation.	2002-05-06
US	52778199	RFF5GO9VM5HSP	0375507477	141548990	A Song Flung Up to Heaven	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent!	A Song Flung Up to Heaven was a quick touching read.  It reviews the feelings and sentiments felt by people during the turbulent period of 1964 -1968.  We can read what happened to Malcolm X and Martin Luther King Jr. from history books.  Many of us can call upon people who were young during this period to draw out their perceptions.  Very rarely have those feelings been cast into rememberences of books or autobiographies.  Ms. Angelou, through her journey, was able to poignantly express her feelings.  Feelings of  expectation, utter devistation,  sheer shock and wanton disbelief.  <br />We are indeed blessed that Ms. Angelou is able to grace us with many more books and poems.  I look forward to many more wonderful works such as this.	2002-04-22
US	52778199	R2BQ4CD94YF22P	0801987571	814126756	Bridal Couture: Fine Sewing Techniques for Wedding Gowns and Evening Wear	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Very well written and Illustrated	I find that the book is excellent for those who want to expand their sewing skills for ballroom gowns and wedding dresses.  The illistrations and plain english that are used have really help me to understand how to improve my skills.  Also excellent definitions of various types of fabric and practical application of such.	1997-10-31
