US	52772255	R18YSJ92XWPX4P	0446364754	902465159	Children of the Night	Books	1	8	22	N	Y	I'm not a psychologist...	...but I'd imagine it would be fun to psychoanalyze Simmons via his writing.  The guy really likes to do in his characters in some pretty gruesome ways.  Unfortunately, I haven't cared about a Simmons character in at least the last five novels of his that I read, so I was kind of hoping he's finish off the priest and the doctor in this one. <br />I first read Simmons' HYPERION based on a review written by a local (Austin, Tx) critic, Patrick Beach.  I was not disappointed. I read the rest of the books in the series and grew increasingly disenchanted with Simmons' style and lack of editorial discipline (he just writes way more than he needs to, or at least more than I need to read.)  I switched to Simmons' Joe Kurtz novels because they were set in my old hometown of Buffalo, NY.  Fun and fast, but not terribly memorable.  Somewhere in there I read his excellent short story collection, WORLDS ENOUGH AND TIME, which includes lengthy personal notes by Simmons.  (Unless you like self-impressed stuffed shirts, skip them).   <br /> <br />I guess the gist of this note is that Simmons can be very, very good and pretty bad.  Try to find the good ones and skip the rest.  CHILDREN OF THE NIGHT is definitely skippable.	2005-03-13
US	52772255	R36IMQT5501P8V	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	2	6	6	N	N	Pretty bad. . .	Several reviewers have already mentioned the factual, historical, scientific and translation errors, so there's no point in going over those in detail.  The most offensive part of the book to me was the poor writing and plotting.  Brown's foreshadowing served absolutely no purpose; neither did his editorializing. The implausibility of the characters' breadth of knowledge is laughable.  On the positive side, though, one has to admire Brown's ability to get the reader to turn pages; despite the poor writing, the book is a Patterson-like read.      Although I can't fault the author for the blurbs printed on the cover, I have to wonder if those reviewers who referred to the book as \\"smart\\" and \\"high IQ\\" are the types who wear round, plain-glass specs because they think it makes them \\"look\\" intelligent?    I hope that the tremendously popular _DaVinci Code_ (which I have not read) demonstrates a maturation of the author and his talents.	2004-07-11
US	52772255	R2P4YRFJ0A6V6E	0345423348	796467564	Vitals	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Very, VERY disappointing!	Not at all typical of Bear's usual work which is lucid, well-written and coherent.  This book started out quite strong but seemed to lose steam toward the final third, almost as if Bear lost interest in the novel while he was writing it.  It's a shame, really, since the characters have the potential to be very interesting and the premise, while farfetched (see David Cortesi's Feb 24 review for an excellent anlysis) was involving.  Coincidentally, I read _Vitals_ soon after I had read Greg Iles' _Footprints of God_.  The premises are similar, but the Iles book actually ends better than does Bear's (though I'm not implying Iles' ending was very good).	2004-03-23
US	52772255	R3RZCFP3AFVW05	0316693006	910647309	Four Blind Mice (Alex Cross)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Much better than his last Alex Cross novel. . .	. . . although not as good as his best.  Patterson gives up a bit of the page-turning drama in this book in favor of a tiny bit more work on character development, but nowhere near enough for my tastes.<br />The story is unsatisfying due to a potentially very interesting plot line (secret wars-within-a war in Vietnam) the details of which Patterson chooses to use mainly as filler.  (I've seen more robust treatment of a similar story line on a two-hour Magnum P.I.)<br />His fleshing out of the Samson character is adequate, but Alex Cross is still not a multi-dimensional character.  Patterson is much better at devising horrible ways to murder his characters than he is at writing about romance and relationships (and his sex scenes are painfully awkward).<br />All in all the book is, as usual, an entertaining way to spend a few hours away from the real world.	2003-02-15
US	52772255	R3814K7EOETH73	0446677450	156348512	Rich Dad, Poor Dad: What the Rich Teach Their Kids About Money--That the Poor and Middle Class Do Not!	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Sound advice -- buy assets not liabilities	I can't say much for the readability of the book -- it is poorly written and poorly edited.  But Kiyosaki does make a good point -- most of us are pretty good at managing to stay in debt and one step ahead of the tax man most of our lives.  Saving and financial investment are fine, but the real key to wealth is to buy assets that appreciate in value, and, ideally, throw off a revenue stream.  Probably easier said than done (or we'd all be rich) but this is a bit of financial advice one doesn't receive under normal circumstances.  Not a classic, but worth the time to browse through some rainy afternoon.	2003-01-23
US	52772255	R227E6U7FYG90I	0446359866	806938577	Presumed Innocent: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Well written, with realistic characters	Although I normally eschew this genre of fiction, I happened to see Turow on an interview show on CNBC, which struck me as odd.  I listened to him as he gave his advice to aspiring writers (&quot;just do it&quot;) and thought he sounded fairly articulate and not at all full of himself.  On a whim I decided to pick up a couple of his novels and found out he's a pretty good writer.  He has a feel for the human condition and can transmit it well; he seems also to grasp the ambiguity of most of our existence.<br />The end of the book, where he tried to inject some question as to what actually happened, was a tiny bit weak, but his ending the novel without a typical &quot;bad guy gets his in the end&quot; wrap up more than made up for that.	2003-01-23
US	52772255	R32SVMACWXZ7A8	0060977264	344489539	By the River Piedra I Sat Down and Wept	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not one of Coelho's better books, but readable nonetheless	While reading the book, I thought Coelho spent too much time deliberately clouding the plot with his character's musings and rambling state of mind, but then I remembered that I was reading a translation of a Latin author's work -- it is exceedingly difficult to transmit the Latin mindset easily into English, as anyone who's read a work in Spanish or Portuguese followed by its English translation knows.  When I have time, I'd like to read the novel in Spanish to see if it rings truer, although I don't know if the Portuguese-to-Spanish translation is any less difficult.  I could learn Portuguese, I guess, but I'm too lazy.<br />I can't say I came away from reading this book spiritually enriched, but I will confess to having had an unusual depth to my thoughts while reading it.  While there may or may not have been a link, it's enough to get me to read another Coelho novel sometime in the future.	2003-01-23
US	52772255	R2IHRW2AHA94LO	0844285307	270742621	Japanese Etiquette &amp; Ethics In Business	Books	3	2	5	N	Y	More useful for doing business *in* Japan	Content: DeMente seems to know what he's talking about (this author was recommended to me by an instructor in Chinese culture).  Although I've dealt with Japanese business people for many years, I've not been to Japan, and therefore have no basis to completely judge the book's content.  Based on what I do know, though, this book is best read as instruction in how to deal with Japanese business people when doing business *in Japan* (as opposed to doing business with Japanese companies and their representatives in the U.S.).<br />Structure:  Overly repetitive, poorly structured and in some places, clearly outdated.  The last criticism is to be expected given the dramatic change of status Japan has undergone in the past decade.  The first two criticisms might be ameliorated by two factors:  One, my own preferences are certainly playing a large role here.  I prefer to have information delivered in a logical (to me) and concise manner.  This is especially true for an instructive book -- one would expect creative writing to contain flourishes.  Two, perhaps this *is* creative writing, and DeMente is showing the reader what dealing with a Japanese mindset is really like.	2002-12-29
US	52772255	R1JHK30COE3E2X	0156011077	121473415	The Only Investment Guide You'll Ever Need	Books	4	4	5	N	N	An entertaining, well written guide to personal finance	Tobias is a good writer with a keen understanding of the &quot;little guy's&quot; financial world (although he clearly isn't a &quot;little guy&quot;).<br />The 2002 edition of the book is the third update I've purchased, plus the original.  This is the best update so far with much of the book re-written rather than &quot;updated&quot; with a few additional sentences here and there.<br />Although the reader will not get rich from following Tobias' money management advice, he or she *will* avoid many of the traps (if he or she follows Tobias' advice) that can so easily hurt the small investor (for example, Tobias's advice on using margin to buy stocks: &quot;Don't&quot;).<br />I've given this book to my family and friends in the past and will continue to do so.  It's well worth the money and time spent.	2002-12-21
US	52772255	R215FS3LAEU73	0553288202	47311872	The Fall of Hyperion	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Very good, but not as good as _Hyperion_	Although the pilgrims' stories are wrapped up, in some cases a little too neatly, the book remains largely unsatisfying.  Simmons had a lot to live up to based on _Hyperion_, and some measure of disappointment is to be expected.  Besides that, though, this book was way too wordy for my tastes.  The book simply ran on too long and went into too much detail.  Simmons could have saved about 100 pages and managed his readers' interest level better with some judicious editing.  Also, infuriatingly, Simmons again misused the word &quot;penultimate&quot; (see page 419) -- this *has* to be an inside joke or something he's doing for a reason!  <br />All in all, though, _The Fall of Hyperion_ is still head and shoulders above most science fiction and I'd recommend this installation as well.	2002-12-21
US	52772255	R1SQ1TMHDRI9X7	0521449871	563898330	Eminent Economists: Their Life Philosophies	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Mandatory reading for students of economics	A fascinating book, and something that should be mandatory reading for all graduate-level economics students prior to their taking advanced theory classes.  A careful reading of this book will give the reader insight into the current state of the profession, an understanding of how it became so, and, perhaps, a more sympathetic view of the &quot;supporting cast&quot; of economists.<br />One is struck by the wide disparity in the quality and content of these essays.  Some are quite insightful: either shedding light on a particular economist's field(s) of interest, or else opening the particular economist's psyche for the reader to see.  Tibor Scitovsky's piece is an excellent example of writing that does both; the reader comes away with knowledge of the intellectual underpinnings of Scitovsky's work as well as some clarity into what motivated him in the first place.  His is, in my opinion, the most thought-provoking piece in the book.  Also notable, William Baumol's essay is a clearly written, lucid exposition of his worldview, and even the most ideologically opposite reader comes away with an appreciation for Baumol the man.<br />Other essays are turgid and difficult to wade through (like much of economic writing, I'm afraid).  Maurice Allais' work was so uninteresting as to make me wish I were reading something else. To be fair, it must be noted that Allais' piece was translated and may have been brilliant in the original French.<br />Some of the economists obviously took lightly the task of setting their life philosophies in print, while others took advantage of the opportunity to try to wrest validation for their now-discredited theories.  Samuelson's piece, in particular, came across as shrill and catty, resulting to the often-used but rarely effective (except in the academic world) tactic of criticizing an opponent with an a priori sense of correctness (by which I mean including in the criticism the inflection that &quot;everyone who's anyone already believes this, I'm just doing the world a favor and putting it in print.&quot;  Samuelson does himself much disservice by attacking his betters, especially Hayek and Friedman, in this manner.)<br />A pleasant surprise was discovering that the life philosophies of some of the economists from whom I least expected it turned out to be interesting and enjoyable to read.  Shigeto Tsuru's essay falls into this category.  Although I disagree with almost all of his economic work, Tsuru demonstrates his intellectual consistency and helps the reader to understand his motivation, as well as admire his intellectual honesty in staying true to his ideals.<br />One final note:  It is striking the amount of influence certain economists held over this generation, and by extrapolation, hold over the world as we know it.  One wonders what shape the world would be in if Joseph Schumpeter, J.M. Keynes, A.C. Pigou and a few others had chosen other professions.	2002-11-03
US	52772255	R36QECK803EOTO	0684872870	244559708	Tuxedo Park : A Wall Street Tycoon and the Secret Palace of Science That Changed the Course of World War II	Books	1	26	42	N	N	The poor writing detracts from the subject	This is not a good book.  The quality of the writing is so poor that the reader quickly loses interest in the subject, one Alfred Lee Loomis - someone who may or may not have made significant historical contributions to science and/or the war effort during World War II.     Ms. Conant appears unable to distinguish between the relevant and the irrelevant and consequently includes minutiae at every turn.  This served to cause me to want to speed-read through the book just to be done with it, and by the time I got to the part of the book that talks about Loomis' WW II contributions, I was inclined to dismiss as hyperbole the importance of Loomis' role in the cited accomplishments.      To make matters worse, Conant REALLY wants to include the story of her father's uncle's suicide and force upon it some sort of relevance.  Unfortunately it goes nowhere and should have been left out.      I rarely have such a strongly negative reaction to something I've read that it spills over to the writer.  I challenged myself to come up with three positive things to say about _Tuxedo Park_, and here they are:    One: The author is evidently enthusiastic about her subject.    Two:  _Tuxedo Park_ can be read as a mildly interesting look into the priorities of the privileged class from which Ms. Conant springs.  While I don't care in the least about the trauma felt by a philandering rich man and his apparently soulless paramour as a result of the shunning they received at the hands of the moneyed set, it apparently strikes Conant as poignant.  Similarly, I would hardly classify the financial maneuverings Loomis and his partner undertook as praiseworthy, but Conant revels in his \\"brilliance.\\" It's good to know these things.    Three:  Crud.  I can't come up with three.    I'm sure Ms. Conant is a good person who treats the hired help well.  Even though I don't recommend it, it seems I'm in the minority.  Most other reviewers are pleased with the book, so maybe it's just me.  Hmmm...	2002-10-12
US	52772255	R1IEJCW4AU50NX	0553283685	47311872	Hyperion (Hyperion Cantos)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The best science fiction novel I've read in recent years	Where to start?  First of all, this is a wonderful book and Dan Simmons is a very good writer, if this work is any indication of his talent.  I haven't read anything else by Simmons but I have ordered another title and will add it to the front of my queue.< <br />While I obviously enjoyed the book thoroughly (more on that in a moment), I must comment o on some areas I didn't particularly enjoy: (1) The Consul's story is not at all believable, nor does it lay the groundwork necessary for the plot turn.  (2) The final scene, with the characters linking arms and singing tunes from \\"The Wizard of Oz\\" is unpleasant and unworthy of the rest of the book.  (3) Simmons' frequent references to twentieth-century events and persons taxes the reader as well; for the obvious care and planning that went into this work it is disappointing that Simmons couldn't do better.  (4) Finally, Simmons makes an unforgivable error in his use of the word \\"penultimate\\" as a synonym for \\"the most.\\"  How this could have slipped past his editor is beyond my comprehension, but the fault lies with Simmons for making the mistake in the first place.  Perhaps this is an inside joke or Simmons did it on purpose to win a bet?  <br />All that said I'm still able to say that Hyperion is the best science fiction novel I've read in years.  It compares favorably to the works of the masters - Heinlein, Bradbury, Ellison - in its scope, its artistry and its ability to deliver visceral impact to the reader.  This work, like much of theirs, transcends its genre and belongs in the library of anyone who enjoys good fiction and great writing. <br />I had a friend, an educated and very well read woman, who once asked me for recommendations in the science fiction genre.  I regret losing contact with her for many reasons, and now I have another: I wish I could have recommended this book to her.	2002-09-30
US	52772255	R1KPNBP749FZFQ	0740721917	874176300	His Code Name Was The Fox (Foxtrot)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Amend is still the best!	Once again the journey into Amend's world is a treat.  His ability to sustain characters who are believable while remaining likable is not to be taken lightly.  The last cartoonist who did that was Charles Schulz.<br />One request, Mr. Amend:  Please let Jason have a real computer!  At least give him a scroll mouse with five buttons - he deserves it!	2002-09-29
US	52772255	R1LKFIR49TECPM	0553260111	561287091	The Bourne Identity (Bourne Trilogy No.1)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Heavy on potential, light on delivery.	A very engaging premise with a great deal of promise, but only middling success at delivering the goods.  This book would have been much better had it been tighter and more consistent.  While much of the intrigue is dated by today's standards, it still has the power to grab the reader's attention.  Unfortunately the author's inelegance makes parts of the book tedious and even onerous.  I found myself rolling my eyes at several of the situations the characters found themselves in, and was incredulous at the murders at the &quot;top secret&quot; office in New York, coupled with the totally unbelievable &quot;fingerprint on a glass&quot; bit of evidence planting.  The ending was just plain bad.<br />Ludlum did several things very well -- the basis for Bourne's existence was well thought out and plausible, as was Cain's mission (raison d'être).  I appreciated how he handled the character of Marie, making her competent and intelligent (and an economist!) rather than a typical damsel in distress.  I imagine his scenery and setting were accurate, although those details added nothing to the story as far as I was concerned.<br />I'm tempted to give Ludlum the benefit of the doubt since this book was written more than twenty years ago.  I'm not sure yet if I'll read another book in the series.	2002-09-15
US	52772255	R264P3CAYU15GW	0740721984	732274271	Fuzzy Logic Get Fuzzy 2	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Nice progression from the first collection	As I had hoped, Conley's characters have deepened as the script matures.  One has a better sense of each of the animals' personalities, and the human character, Rob, is becoming more sympathetic as well, especially when he tries to preserve Satchel's feelings from Bucky's very cat-like unintentional cruelties.  Conley has done a very good job taking the essential animal characteristics of both the dog and the cat and morphing them into not-quite-human analogs. This is a thoroughly enjoyable collection, and I'm looking forward to future installments.	2002-09-14
US	52772255	R30BP2SRGN1O05	1573227331	602052020	About a Boy	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A sweet book. . .	. . . in spite of the author's obvious desire to avoid being sweet. Hornby does a good job imagining the inner workings of a boy on the cusp of adolescence.  Growing up, one of my friends was a female version of Marcus and I often wondered about her what I imagine Marcus' contemporaries wondered about him: &quot;What planet is this person from?&quot; This work, like _High Fidelity_ before it, also provides an enjoyable glimpse into contemporary everyday life in England from a middle-class perspective.<br />I don't believe I'll lie awake at night thinking about this book as I would something by Fowles or Helprin, or even _High Fidelity_, but I don't regret the time I spent reading it.  It was pleasant, amusing and well-written.  I'll certainly pick up another work of fiction by Hornby.<br />By the way, even though I haven't seen the movie, I can't help but think what a good choice Hugh Grant must have been for Will.  More often than not I caught myself thinking of him as the character while I read the book.	2002-09-14
US	52772255	R1PBO53DYM0SGY	0486296725	606915359	Game Theory: A Nontechnical Introduction (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	4	118	125	N	Y	A good attempt at a difficult undertaking...	Davis' book suffers from its very nature -- it attempts to explain a highly technical, that is, mathematical, subject without using mathematics.  Davis is only partially successful in avoiding the use of mathematics; given the almost impossible nature ot the task, he does quite a good a job at explaining game theory.    The chapters on zero sum games hold together nicely and manage to leave the reader with an understanding of their nature as well as how to arrive at a Pareto-optimal solution.  (Small rant:  It drives me absolutely bonkers when I hear business school grads tossing around the word \\"Pareto\\" as if they had any idea of what they spoke!) When non-zero sum games are introduced, however, Davis simply cannot overcome the complexity of trying to explain multi-variable solutions with mere words.  He resorts to quasi-mathematical explanations or makes assumptions that would not be at all obvious to the lay reader.    This book is an excellent refresher in game theory, or a good primer for those with some knowledge of the topic and some intuitive mathematics.	2002-09-01
US	52772255	R3QL3DWXUCLGP6	0740718509	645301407	Encyclopedias Brown and White: A FoxTrot Collection	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Best comic strip in current publication	Amend has yet to disappoint. FoxTrot is consistently the best comic strip in current publication, and this collection is an enjoyable addition to the body of work.<br />Amend's characters are genuinely likable, not at all preachy, and easily identified with.  The fact that Amend and I are roughly the same age may have something to do with it, but I find my interests largely coincide with many of the characters' interests, making the strip a daily joy.  I have one unread collection, His Code Name Was The Fox, on my shelf, saved for a time when I need some cheering.<br />Do yourself a favor and treat your mind to an enjoyable visit to the FoxTrot universe.	2002-08-17
US	52772255	R36U02P6XOGUNC	0446607258	79911364	Mythology: Timeless Tales of Gods and Heroes	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Excellent Refresher on Greek and Roman Mythology	Ms. Hamilton's book, rightly considered a classic in its own right, is a quick, minimal no-nonsense retelling of Greek and Roman myths.  I was surprised to see a small section at the end on Norse mythology; I thought it was entirely too brief to do the subject justice.<br />Ms. Hamilton's greatest contribution in this work is her grouping of the myths in more-or-less logical sections -- for example, &quot;The Gods, the Creation and the Earliest Heroes,&quot; &quot;Stories of Love and Adventure,&quot; &quot;The Great Heroes of the Trojan War,&quot; and so on.  She attempts to provide a framework for the myths to enable the reader to understand them in the context they were understood during their own time, and she does this very well.<br />Another benefit Ms. Hamilton attempts to provide her readers is a clipping service of sorts, pulling her stories from a multitude of sources.  While I found the constant switching between Greek and Roman names annoying, Ms. Hamilton remained true to her methodology of identifying the gods, goddesses and heroes based on the majority author from which she drew for a particular tale.  I could have done without her editorializing on the readability of the authors from whom she drew, but that is a minor quibble.<br />This book is most useful for someone for whom many years has passed since he or she has read their Greek and Roman mythology.  It might also serve as an adequate primer for someone about to undertake a first reading of the subject as well.  By itself, however, it loses much of the romance and excitement the fully developed stories themselves impart in the hands of a skilled storyteller.  I was fortunate in that, even though I read most of my mythology before the age of ten, I had a wonderful resource at my disposal -- a 1930 edition of the Grolier Society's The Book of Knowledge, a twenty volume encyclopedia that undertook to impart a broad range of knowledge to its readers in an accessible and enjoyable manner.  Having not read mythology since that time, Hamilton's brief retelling of the tales brought back many of them and the context she provided even enhanced my appreciation for some and cleared up misconceptions about others.<br />One complaint, admittedly minute in importance:  I found three typographical errors in the edition I read (Warner Books, 1999).  While these in no way detracted from the work, it is nonetheless surprising to find such errors in a work that's been in print for sixty years.read mythology since that time, Hamilton's brief retelling of the tales brought back many of them and the context she provided even enhanced my appreciation for some and cleared up misconceptions about others.<br />One complaint, admittedly minute in importance:  I found three typographical errors in the edition I read (Warner Books, 1999).  While these in no way detracted from the work, it is nonetheless surprising to find such errors in a work that's been in print for sixty years.	2002-08-17
US	52772255	R2EOUGJARP5M05	0740713922	686460092	The Dog Is Not a Toy: House Rule #4	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A promising new comic strip	Funny newer comic strip with cute, engaging characters (although the human, Rob, could use more personality).  I'd like to see more continuing story lines, but this book represents very early strips, so I'll wait to see how later volumes do.	2002-07-08
US	52772255	R3VV4QSNU8HH3S	0553212451	537609961	The Jungle (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Worth reading if you're a serious reader	This novel is clearly the work of a young man -- a young man aghast at the inhumanity of unfettered capitalism and enamored with the boundless promise of socialism.  The very young, the untraveled and the naïve are the persons most likely to be susceptible to the lures of utopian philosophies (witness the demographics of the \\"anti-globalization\\" protesters at any given meeting of the industrialized nations), and Sinclair is definitely in the grasp of his ideology.<br />This novel, as we are reminded in the book's notes and Afterword, was the impetus for the addition of meat cleanliness standards to the Pure Food Law of 1906.  This is a remarkable feat for any writer, and certainly many owe a debt of gratitude to Sinclair.<br />_The Jungle_ is noteworthy, in my opinion, for another remarkable feat, one I have not seen mentioned:  Sinclair correctly identified some of the anti-competitive forces acting on the U.S. economy at the turn of the century -- many of which still act similarly on today's U.S. and world economies.  He wrote of the Beef Trust, the Railroad Trust and the Oil Trust.  Today we have to contend with many of the same forces, plus the Sugar Trust, the Dairy Trust, the Entertainment Trust, the Pharmaceutical Trust, the Sports Trust, the Political Trust, the Insurance Trust and so many more!  Don't get me wrong:  I'm a dyed-in-the-wool Free Market Capitalist, the operative phrase being \\"Free Market.\\" The sad fact is there isn't too much Free Market Capitalism going on these days.  Adam Smith wrote, in _The Wealth of Nations_, \\"People of the same trade seldom meet together, even for merriment and diversion, but their conversation ends in a conspiracy against the public, or in some contrivance to raise prices.\\" [Vol. I, book I, Chapter 10.]  The point here is two-fold: One --There are forces acting against the individual at all levels and in all arenas of our lives.  Our options are total acquiescence or total indifference. Two -- Human nature is what it is:  The strong will always seek to subjugate the meek; the clever will always seek to delude the slow.  We must decide to lead, follow or get out of the way, as the saying goes.  (My personal choice is to get the hell out of the way.)  Utopian philosophies are children's fairly tales, more fantastic than any work of science fiction I can recall.  (I remember reading a story about some spontaneous mutation that caused everyone to develop wheels where their feet had been, putting an end to pollution, traffic problems, the oil shortage, wars, etc.  I read this story just before I read Marx's description of the Proletariat Revolution for the first time.  I recall sitting bemused as these two fantasies juxtaposed themselves in my mind, unable to imagine how Marx pulled the wool over so many people's eyes for so long.  Of course, at that time I was very young, untraveled and naïve.  I've since learned that most people will believe anything that's properly pre-digested and sweetened just enough.  It's called advertising!)<br />From a purely literary perspective, this book is much less than perfect.  The writing is tedious and labored in many spots.  The characters are not complete; at best they're partial sketches.  Jurgis Rudkus, being the main character, should be fleshed out, yet he is so slightly written that often the reader is left feeling that he or she is watching a paper cutout being manipulated.  Sinclair's obvious enchantment with socialism is embarrassing at first, then annoying.  But this book is so much more than storytelling that the reader should press on and finish it, if for no other reason than to say he or she did.<br />One final note:  The edition I read had an Afterword by Barry Sears of the Zone diet fame.  I may be overly cynical, but I found it to be self-serving and mostly a commercial for Mr. Sears' (Ph. D.) books.  Ignore it or buy a different edition.t is:  The strong will always seek to subjugate the meek; the clever will always seek to delude the slow.  We must decide to lead, follow or get out of the way, as the saying goes.  (My personal choice is to get the hell out of the way.)  Utopian philosophies are children's fairly tales, more fantastic than any work of science fiction I can recall.  (I remember reading a story about some spontaneous mutation that caused everyone to develop wheels where their feet had been, putting an end to pollution, traffic problems, the oil shortage, wars, etc.  I read this story just before I read Marx's description of the Proletariat Revolution for the first time.  I recall sitting bemused as these two fantasies juxtaposed themselves in my mind, unable to imagine how Marx pulled the wool over so many people's eyes for so long.  Of course, at that time I was very young, untraveled and naïve.  I've since learned that most people will believe anything that's properly pre-digested and sweetened just enough.  It's called advertising!)<br />From a purely literary perspective, this book is much less than perfect.  The writing is tedious and labored in many spots.  The characters are not complete; at best they're partial sketches.  Jurgis Rudkus, being the main character, should be fleshed out, yet he is so slightly written that often the reader is left feeling that he or she is watching a paper cutout being manipulated.  Sinclair's obvious enchantment with socialism is embarrassing at first, then annoying.  But this book is so much more than storytelling that the reader should press on and finish it, if for no other reason than to say he or she did.<br />One final note:  The edition I read had an Afterword by Barry Sears of the Zone diet fame.  I may be overly cynical, but I found it to be self-serving and mostly a commercial for Mr. Sears' (Ph. D.) books.  Ignore it or buy a different edition.	2002-06-30
US	52772255	R45HRFGNA9V5K	0553275976	678579754	The Bonfire of the Vanities	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The more things change, the more they stay the same. . .	This book, written in the 1980s about New York of the early- to mid-1980s, while not fresh, is certainly not irrelevant. Most of the character types are clearly recognizable as extant forces in the city and the nation.<br />The plot of the book is nothing remarkable per se. It takes a while to materialize and is mildly interesting, but nothing about it is especially clever. A bad, dumb, white guy -- rich and insensitive of course -- is screwing around on his wife with a golddigger. Through circumstances beyond his control he is involved in a seemingly minor incident that balloons up and takes over his life, making it, and him, into something very different, (and, we presume, better) than it, and he, was before. Along the way, some good guys pop up, some bad guys pop up, and some guys you thought were good but turn out to be bad pop up. <br />Wolfe does a good job in getting into his characters' minds and letting us in on what they're thinking and feeling along the way. Wolfe's writing gets in the way of the story, however. He is overly descriptive of the surroundings to the point that one soon tires it -- at least I did. It came to the point that I skipped over entire paragraphs devoted to descriptions of furniture and wall hangings. <br />Some of the more memorable parts of the book involve the parties the rich white guy and his wife attend, with hilarious, almost Vonnegut-like descriptions of the attendees' laughs. Wolfe also does his readers a service for a look inside the fourth estate. To those of us who think the news media have a particular axe to grind it is enlightening to see them cast as mere grubbers, each after his or her own moment of fame. (A phrase from another book -- The Martian Race by Gregory Benford -- comes to mind -- \\"the snout of the media pig had worked its way under the tent...\\")<br />It is amusing to think that many of the events so central to the plot are now meaningless due to technology - cell and satellite phones, the Internet and cable news, and the widespread availability of credit cards, to name a few. All in all though, this is not a bad book. It is overly long and tedious in spots, but it's worth reading if for no other reason than it provides a look back into the marvelous '80s, and a reminder that human nature never changes.	2002-06-10
US	52772255	R5TEZIKM26GMI	0446608904	78981579	The Martian Race	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Mildly interesting science fiction	Not great, not bad.  The characters are mildly sympathetic and the story is mildly interesting, but nothing about the book is particularly affecting.  I'd recommend it to someone who had read the genre extensively and was looking for a slightly different take on near-term space exploration.  I did find the inclusion of real-life persons as characters somewhat fawning, but nowhere near as bad as Niven's Fallen Angels.<br />A note on the workmanship of the book itself:  The edition I purchased was from Warner Books (Aspect), and fairly new (no more than a year old, I'd estimate).  The binding was so poorly done that the cover fell off before I was halfway through the book, and the pages themselves separated from the main body as they were read.  While I fully expect paperbacks to be of lesser quality than hardcover editions, I expect them to at least make it through the initial reading.  I will certainly think twice before buying another Warner Book.	2002-05-26
US	52772255	RR58GUD6O97E0	0684833395	458864358	Catch-22	Books	5	9	10	N	N	One of the best books ever written.	It's difficult to write anything meaningfully different about Catch-22 that hasn't already been written.  Rather than attempt that, I'll offer my personal experience with this book.  I first read it as a teenager, in the mid-1970s. I'd read MASH (Hooker) before reading Catch-22 and was much more impressed with that book (and television series) than I was with Heller's work.  Catch-22, I thought, was a part of the same genre: smart-ass anti-war books.  It was funny, but bogged down in places and at times simply bored me - the whole bit with Milo Minderbinder, for example.  And Major Major was a one-note gag that I quickly dismissed.  To be honest, the part of the book that stuck with me throughout the years was Yossarian's having written, \\"I yearn for you tragically. A.T. Tappman, Chaplain, U.S. Army,\\" and the first two lines of the book.<br />Fast forward to now - 2002: I'm in my early forties and, it is to be hoped, somewhat wiser and more experienced.  For no good reason I've decided to re-read the book (I happened upon it in the back of a closet while looking for another book).  A few pages in, I couldn't believe how differently I saw the book, the characters and how differently I interpreted Heller's message.  After completing the book, I'd discovered that Heller hadn't written an anti-war book, or an anti-Army or anti-government book -- he's written an anti-institution book!  The experiences he recorded occur daily in numerous corporations, government bureaucracies, school systems, society -- any setting in which an individual is faced with his anonymity and utter replace-ability in an institution.  Major Major, far from being a one-gag joke, is the perfect archetype for the well-meaning mid-level functionary who finds himself powerless to affect change and simply chooses to operate \\"below the radar,\\" as they say, biding his time and trying to avoid being noticed until he's retired.  Milo Minderbinders really do get ahead, and Lieutenant Scheisskopfs  really get promoted to the top through no effort of their own!  <br />Yossarian was the main character of the book, but the true hero was Orr, who'd figured everything out and used the system to break free.  He left tracks for Yossarian to follow, and, we can hope, Yossarian made it past Nately's whore to freedom as well.  And, after all these years, I can understand the first two lines of the book.<br />A few random musings:  One - Having just seen the series finale to The X-Files, I'm struck by the correctness of fit between the two universes.  Two - I bought a paperback edition of this book (Dell) in 1979.  It is the same book I just finished re-reading, yellowed and somewhat aged, but otherwise in good condition.  Quite a contrast to the novel (Time-Warner) I picked up last month that literally falls apart page by page as I read it.	2002-05-20
US	52772255	R227OOWWHABOI1	0446609404	95144783	Cradle and All	Books	4	2	4	N	N	This book truly creeped me out	Patterson, though I've written snidely of his work in the past, is a master of pacing and holding the reader's attention.  My past issues have been with his recent descent into a formulaic treatment of a valuable franchise, the Alex Cross series.  <br />In this novel, Patterson delivers much more developed and sympathetic characters, and draws nicely on Roman Catholic mythology to create a palpable sense of terror. (I must have felt the hair on the back of my neck rising on at least a half-dozen occasions!)  While the denouement is regrettably anti-climactic, the three hundred and forty-nine pages leading up to it are well worth the investment in the book.  I hope this is a sign of things to come, and not a reflection that the book is based on an earlier work by Patterson.<br />Besides the ending, my only other quibbles are Patterson's decision to be overly graphic in his sexual descriptions, a touch I didn't appreciate but which may not annoy another reader, and some undelivered promises (read gaps in the plot and omitted details - a danger when reworking an earlier composition).  This book is not great fiction; it is an engrossing mental sorbet between serious works.  We all appreciate that once in a while, don't we?	2002-04-23
US	52772255	RD90WJ5J6OFP1	0553374397	288544035	The Six Pillars of Self-Esteem:  The Definitive Work on Self-Esteem by the Leading Pioneer in the Field	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Interesting and thought-provoking	An interesting work, especially when compared to newer, lesser books on similar topics, such as Philip McGraw's _Life Strategies_.  Certainly professional psychologists might find the work limited since it is aimed at a broad audience, and the intellectually challenged might be offended by the tone.<br />Branden is nothing if not an interesting personality and his Objectivist influenced take on self-esteem is refreshing and worthwhile when compared to popular for tactics for raising self-esteem: empty praise and meaningless feel-good platitudes.  Those familiar with Ayn Rand and Branden's relationship with her might enjoy his ongoing commentary on the relationship.<br />Not being trained in psychology, I cannot knowledgeably comment on Branden's suggested sentence completion exercises to enhance self-esteem.  I haven't tried them to a great extent, but at the very least they should stimulate some internal dialogue that might be useful.<br />Finally, this book is worthwhile for the discussion Branden generates on whether individualism is a cultural bias or a universal good.  He's certainly not in the politically correct camp, but his ideas are worthy of contemplation by the serious thinker.	2002-04-21
US	52772255	R8OKKI60FNMXN	0553268864	68505221	The Complete Scarsdale Medical Diet: Plus Dr. Tarnower's Lifetime Keep-Slim Program	Books	3	34	51	N	N	Fascinating as history	The history of diet, weight loss and physical improvement movement through popular books and publications would make a fascinating study; perhaps it's already been done.  When I happened upon this book in a stack at the back of my closet, I thought I'd re-read it from that perspective.  <br />First, a few words about the diet itself: Written in the 1970s by New York cardiologist Herman Tarnower (who was murdered a few years after the hugely successful book was published), the Scarsdale Medical Diet is really a two page, two week, low fat, low carbohydrate, higher protein diet.  For some people it works well.  For others it may not.  Tarnower's diet is more healthy-seeming than Atkins' in that it includes some complex carbohydrates such as bread and fruits, but that point is arguable, I'm sure.  It also bridges the gap somewhat between Atkins' wide-open, free choice (within strict bounds) diet and the minutely-detailed diets often sold by &quot;weight loss centers,&quot; in that it lists what should be eaten by meal by day, but stops at prescribing how much of everything.  (Certain items are quantity limited; for example, breakfast is one slice of &quot;protein bread&quot; and one half grapefruit or fruit in season.)  Another interesting wrinkle is Tarnower's admonition to remain on the diet for two weeks, take off (and eat sensibly) for two weeks, and return to the diet for two more weeks if needed.  After the initial session, Tarnower offers variety in his meal suggestions, with international, gourmet, vegetarian and other options.<br />As history, this book is certainly more interesting.  When Tarnower wrote this book, U.S. society had not yet completely fallen under the control of the processed foodstuffs conglomerates.  Indeed, one often bought a twelve-ounce bottle of a carbonated beverage and had to worry about how to keep the product fizzy between servings.  Contrast that to today's Super Big Gulp-sized servings of carbonated (and sugar- or chemical-laden) beverages!  Exercise, too, was an entirely different undertaking in the 1970s.  Very few people actually worked out at a gymnasium, and almost no women lifted weights or participated in sports.  (Some things have changed for the better!)  People jogged or played tennis for exercise.  Tarnower suggests walking, especially for the aged (anyone over forty fell into that category), as sufficient exercise.  Eating out was still a special occasion, not a regular part of daily life.  Reading this book is a reminder of those days.<br />In summary, the Scarsdale diet may or may not help one to lose weight.  The book is moderately interesting as a part of the body of work comprising weight-loss history; I certainly wouldn't suggest buying a book for a diet plan that is freely available on the Internet. In all likelihood, the best way to be healthier and more fit is to follow the tried and true four word plan that's always worked:  Eat less, exercise more.	2002-04-21
US	52772255	R3D2ZXP9MW3QA2	0345412966	175745973	The Ringworld Throne	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Disappointing	This book sat on my bookshelf for three or four years.  For some reason, I couldn't bring myself to read it, even though I read several of the Niven-inspired Man-Kzin Wars collections, and even re-read several of the Known Space novels.  When I finally decided to read it, I initially thought my disappointment was due to the length of time that had passed since I had read The Ringworld Engineers.  I couldn't follow much of the descriptive passages, and found myself losing interest while reading.  <br />Upon reflection, however, perhaps I was expecting to read something other than what Niven wrote.  That is, I was expecting a science fiction yarn featuring some of Niven's better characters.  What I found was not science fiction but &quot;engineering fiction,&quot; and the attention to the characters reflected an engineer's sensibilities.  <br />I wish I could more highly recommend this book, but I cannot.	2002-04-20
US	52772255	R3UVAJ63M6K8PV	0156261405	693102537	A Dove of the East and: Other Stories	Books	5	27	29	N	N	A Wonderful Collection of Stories	Helprin truly is, as a friend observed, one of our greatest living writers.  These stories are sublime and affecting.  Katrina, Katrin' is as moving a story as I have read, and A Dove of the East does extra duty - it's a thought-provoking examination of the human condition on one level, and a look back in time at the Middle East.  <br />These stories do what good stories should: Make their impact during and immediately after reading, and then reappear in your consciousness at a later time, triggered by a tangential event perhaps, or an emotional shard.	2002-04-20
US	52772255	R5NEZ5COKVIH6	0812579410	126157448	Jupiter: A Novel (The Grand Tour)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Excellent Science Fiction	A throwback to the science fiction I grew up reading - Heinlein, Clarke and &quot;newer&quot; hard science types like Niven.  A fine blend of sociological and scientific extrapolation.  Bova's characters may be underdeveloped and lacking depth, but all in all a very good book.  Excellent for advanced youth or teenage readers as well.	2002-04-20
US	52772255	R3OC41JQOCAYB	0812590961	871989064	Aztec Autumn	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Well Researched Historical Novel	The plot is a bit of a disappointment, especially the *very* unlikely coincidences, but the research into Mexico's history and the telling of the tale of colonization from the aboriginal inhabitants' perspective makes this novel well worth the effort to read it.	2002-02-24
US	52772255	R1NN3PPD4S3GZG	0060185562	972800465	Plainclothes Naked	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Hilarious in Places, but Lacking in Discipline	Stahl has a wickedly imaginitive sense of humor. This novel was laugh-out-loud hilarious in spots, but could have been pruned somewhat to make it a better read. With time, and a firmer-handed editor, Stahl could develop into a very good writer.	2002-02-24
US	52772255	R31LN7ZOK7ZCWW	0786884592	544357348	Life Strategies: Doing What Works, Doing What Matters	Books	2	12	15	N	N	Save Your Money - Read the Back Cover	While this book isn't terrible, it is unnecessary.  Certainly it's unnecessarily long.  It would have made a great pamphlet.	2002-02-24
US	52772255	REP4CPMXCORUV	0385505833	999720718	Skipping Christmas: A Novel	Books	1	6	8	N	N	The Worst Novel I've Read	Someone call Clive Cussler and tell him this piece of amateurish drivel supplanted _Inca Gold_ as the worst novel I've read. Having never picked up a Grisham novel before, I was expecting something at least clever or well-written, based on his popularity.  Sadly, this novel is to good writing what any Jim Carrey performance is to good acting; that is to say, not remotely related.	2002-02-24
US	52772255	RY4WR4X7ZGTML	0316693235	147933002	Violets Are Blue ~ Detective Alex Cross Series	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Patterson's Novels are Like Cheetos...	...not particularly good for you, not really appealing to begin with, but damned hard to turn down if they're put in front of you. And you have to wash your hands when you're finished.	2002-02-24
