US	52771226	R1LE6LL4ASUQTJ	1585675628	734724042	Don't Point that Thing at Me	Books	3	15	20	N	N	Oh, how I wanted to like this book.	Because of Leo Carey's wry, admiring, melancholy essay in THE NEW YORKER, I grabbed this novel and its two sequels when I found them at a local used bookstore, and oh, how I wanted to like them more than I ended up doing. But they're just not as good as the hype. They drift all over the place [to be fair, Carey admitted that devotees of mysteries would find these books too undisciplined], and the narrator's aggressively amoral personality -- imagine P. G. Wodehouse's Bertie Wooster crossed with Jonathan Gash's Lovejoy -- can wear on one after a while. The plots are made of Swiss cheese, at best, and these books are also sadly dated in their views of women. Maybe it's because I read the Lovejoy books before these -- if I had come to them without knowing about Lovejoy, I would have enjoyed them more.	2005-10-11
US	52771226	R14T6JNZKJW4A9	0141003774	567044501	The Mortdecai Trilogy	Books	3	8	12	N	N	Oh, how I wanted to like these books.	Because of Leo Carey's wry, admiring, melancholy essay in THE NEW YORKER, I grabbed these novels when I found them at a local used bookstore, and oh, how I wanted to like them more than I ended up doing.  But they're just not as good as the hype.  They drift all over the place [to be fair, Carey admitted that devotees of mysteries would find these books too undisciplined], and the narrator's aggressively amoral personality -- imagine P. G. Wodehouse's Bertie Wooster crossed with Jonathan Gash's Lovejoy -- can wear on one after a while.  The plots are made of Swiss cheese, at best, and these books are also sadly dated in their views of women.  Maybe it's because I read the Lovejoy books before these -- if I had come to them without knowing about Lovejoy, I would have enjoyed them more.	2005-10-11
US	52771226	R5J37A0V6HCKW	1585675636	175841363	After You with the Pistol	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Oh, how I wanted to like this book.	Because of Leo Carey's wry, admiring, melancholy essay in THE NEW YORKER, I grabbed this novel, its prequel, and its sequel when I found them at a local used bookstore, and oh, how I wanted to like them more than I ended up doing. But they're just not as good as the hype. They drift all over the place [to be fair, Carey admitted that devotees of mysteries would find these books too undisciplined], and the narrator's aggressively amoral personality -- imagine P. G. Wodehouse's Bertie Wooster crossed with Jonathan Gash's Lovejoy -- can wear on one after a while. The plots are made of Swiss cheese, at best, and these books are also sadly dated in their views of women. Maybe it's because I read the Lovejoy books before these -- if I had come to them without knowing about Lovejoy, I would have enjoyed them more.	2005-10-11
US	52771226	R1EU6UO40MWJVP	1585675644	715785924	Something Nasty in the Woodshed (Mortdecai)	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Oh, how I wanted to like this book.	Because of Leo Carey's wry, admiring, melancholy essay in THE NEW YORKER, I grabbed this novel and its two prequels when I found them at a local used bookstore, and oh, how I wanted to like them more than I ended up doing. But they're just not as good as the hype. They drift all over the place [to be fair, Carey admitted that devotees of mysteries would find these books too undisciplined], and the narrator's aggressively amoral personality -- imagine P. G. Wodehouse's Bertie Wooster crossed with Jonathan Gash's Lovejoy -- can wear on one after a while. The plots are made of Swiss cheese, at best, and these books are also sadly dated in their views of women. Maybe it's because I read the Lovejoy books before these -- if I had come to them without knowing about Lovejoy, I would have enjoyed them more.	2005-10-11
US	52771226	RIOXYYDHFPYSD	0300056656	932244848	The Lessons of History	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Very good essay collection with a few gems	Like all essay collections, THE LESSONS OF HISTORY can seem thrown together.  The opening and closing essays, however, are true gems.  In the opening essay, Sir Michael Howard reflects on just what it means to draw lessons from history; in the process, he goes beyond the stale and cliche-ridden stuff that most historians generate when asked to reflect on the question.  In particular, readers should ponder Howard's enlightening juxtaposition of the mindset of the military historian, who focuses on the uniqueness of past events and their differences from the present, with the mindset of the military strategist or tactician, who wants to know the past so that he or she can apply historical knowledge to the present.	2005-06-09
US	52771226	R1AXMWN87PM0IE	0393327019	844050142	Losing America: Confronting a Reckless and Arrogant Presidency	Books	5	21	27	N	N	Eloquent, learned, and challenging polemic -- a must-read.	Anyone who has worked on the history of the constitutional system will find this book true to the best of that history.  Whatever you may think of Senator Robert C. Byrd's old record on civil rights -- and it's typical of our debased politics that those who denounce Byrd now were *very* quick to let Strom Thurmond and Trent Lott off the hook for similar indiscretions --he is doing heroic service to the Constitution and to the American people.  You should get the paperback edition, which includes an extensive and eloquent afterword covering the 2004 presidential campaign and developments since then.  I'm buying copies to give to friends and colleagues.  You should, too.	2005-06-09
US	52771226	R3EYY8P628DEP6	0743260031	297692250	Assassination Vacation	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Brilliantly funny, offbeat. Well-informed about history, too	Sarah Vowell knows enough history to impress this historian, and she writes about it with a wonderfully offbeat sensibility.  She carries her learning lightly, but it's always there.  This is a book for history geeks, for people who have always hated history, and for people who want to understand how the past can come to obsess even the most level-headed people.  Vowell's skilled interweaving of past and present does not get in the way of her exploration of the past; quite the reverse.	2005-06-06
US	52771226	RZ33NAN0A5WBK	0374113149	328613861	John Adams: Party of One	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Far better than McCullough -- an indispensable biography	One might not expect a veteran economic journalist to produce one of the best biographies of John Adams ever written.  But JOHN ADAMS: PARTY OF ONE defies expectations again and again, just as John Adams did.  Written with clarity and grace, with respect for the primary sources and the existing historical and biographical scholarship on Adams and his time, JOHN ADAMS: PARTY OF ONE is an excellent study of its subject.  Grant is particularly astute in his analysis of a focus of Adams's diplomatic activities during the 1780s -- his negotiations and renegotiations of the many loans that helped finance the new nation's quest for independence and its struggles to survive in the community of nations.  Grant's dubbing of Adams as \\"America's premier junk bond salesman\\" is both funny and precise.  The main advantages that Grant's book has over that by McCullough are that Grant's book is shorter, clearer, not at all filled with its own importance, and willing to take John Adams seriously both as a politician and a political thinker.  Grant is willing to do the hard intellectual and writing work to convey to general readers the context of Adams's thought, the substance of his ideas, and the differences between his political philosophy and those of his contemporaries, including Jefferson and Paine.  Even if you invested in McCullough's tome, buy and read this book.  It is one of the best books on its subject ever written, having a great deal to say to general readers and to scholars alike.	2005-04-29
US	52771226	RSXXDD9QUXKJI	0385175620	311944396	Cincinnatus: George Washington and the Enlightenment	Books	5	22	22	N	N	One of the finest books ever written analyzing Washington	In this magnificent book, Garry Wills presents a shrewd, learned analysis of the reasons for George Washington's central role in the American Revolution and the creation of the American Republic.  Far better than Joseph Ellis's HIS EXCELLENCY: GEORGE WASHINGTON, this fine book examines the three critical episodes in Washington's public life -- his resignation in 1783, at the Revolution's close, as commander-in-chief of the Continental Army; his role in the framing and adoption and effectuation of the Constitution; and his decision to retire from the Presidency after two terms of office.  Washington was, as Wills calls him, a virtuoso of resignation, and Wills's fine book explains why.  It should be restored to print.	2005-03-02
US	52771226	R2RYFX1X382NAH	0691121214	345657038	The Papers of Thomas Jefferson, Retirement Series, Volume 1: 4 March 1809 to 15 November 1809	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Magisterial and magnificent	The launch of THE PAPERS OF THOMAS JEFFERSON: RETIREMENT SERIES is a major event in American historical scholarship, and this splendid volume gets the series off to a magnificent start.  The editorial methods are, as always, exacting; the scholarship is superb; and the contents of this volume already illuminate the beginning of Jefferson's retirement and the ways in which he and the American people collaborated in devising the roles that an ex-President should play in American public life.  Anyone who cares about Thomas Jefferson should study this volume and its successors with care.	2005-02-27
US	52771226	RJXZF74MXVI3Y	1400061199	987690167	The Eloquent President: A Portrait of Lincoln Through His Words	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Brilliantly explains substance and style of Lincoln's prose	Abraham Lincoln was eloquent; everybody knows that.  But what kind of eloquence did he have?  How did he use it to advance his ideas and political agenda?  How did he use it to enlighten the American people and to summon up the best that this nation can be?  Any reader who has any interest in those questions must read this book.  It is a profound yet lucid and fast-moving examination of Lincoln's uses of oratory as president-elect and as president.  It stands with yet somehow manages to eclipse studies of specific speeches such as Garry Wills's LINCOLN AT GETTYSBURG or the author's previous study of the Second Inaugural Address, LINCOLN'S GREATEST SPEECH.  I teach Lincoln in my Law and Literature course and I plan to have this book at my elbow as I teach Lincoln this semester.	2005-02-09
US	52771226	R743EYT19WTHF	0761829172	376062176	Richard B. Morris and American History in the Twentieth Century	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Readable and affectionate life of a major historian	Philip Ranlet's affectionate and readable life of Richard B. Morris deserves a wide audience.  Not only historians but anyone thinking of pursuing a career in history should read this useful book.  <br /> <br />Richard B. Morris (1904-1989) was one of the finest American historians of the twentieth century.  His first book, STUDIES IN THE HISTORY OF AMERICAN LAW (1930), helped to set the agenda for research in American legal history for decades -- and still does.  His work on the era of the American Revolution, the Confederation, and the making of the Constitution was at once rigorously scholarly and totally accessible to general readers.  THE PEACEMAKERS: THE GREAT POWERS AND AMERICAN INDEPENDENCE (1965) won the Bancroft Prize in History and was deprived of a Pulitzer Prize in History only as a result of internal politics within the administration of the Pulitzer Prizes.  Morris trained generations of graduate students, pioneered the urgent tasks of conserving historical documents and legal sources (such as court records), and was a key figure in enlisting historians to convey history to the public through accessible writing and work on such public-history projects as exhibitions. <br /> <br />Ranlet's extensive source notes to his concise book show his deep indebtedness to the Morris papers at Columbia University; he also interviewed many of Morris's former students.  I only wish that Ranlet had had a better editor, for the book has some stylistic lapses.  Also, on page 90 Ranlet errs in identifying John Jay (whose papers Morris edited and about whom Morris wrote some of his best work) as a signer of the Declaration of Independence; indeed, in his writings about Jay's life and historical reputation, Morris notes that Jay probably did not acquire the fame that Hamilton, Madison, Jefferson, and John Adams won because he did not sign the Declaration of Independence, the Articles of Confederation, or the Constitution.  I hope that in future editions this error will becorrected. <br /> <br />Finally, Ranlet's biography is available from the publisher for $33.00, but this book was issued as a paperback original.  I wish that he had found a better publisher who had been willing to put more resources behind the book.  It deserves better, and so does the author. <br />	2004-10-03
US	52771226	R3RZNFUBJX0GR	1582344167	481973042	Jonathan Strange & Mr. Norrell	Books	5	89	97	N	N	Marvelous, engrossing, rings absolutely true	Historical fiction is hard, because you have to respect the past while seeming to move about freely within it.  Genre fiction is also hard, because you have to work to create a totally believable world without letting any of the scaffolding show.  And when you try to blend the two, the difficulty of the task is compounded.  It's wondrous that Susanna Clarke pulls this off, and miraculous that she does it so well.  Not a note rings false.  She imagines Great Britain at the close of the Age of Enlightenment, in the midst of the Napoleonic Wars, and she also imagines that world having the study and investigation of magic as one of its core components.  Her Gilbert Norrell is one of the miracles of this book -- precisely the sort of magician that the era of Hume, Dr. Johnson, and Benjamin Franklin would produce.  Her Jonathan Strange is also totally believable -- a product of the era of Byron and Shelley who is also reminiscent of Jane Austen's Mr. Knightley, yet just as sardonic and intellectually venturesome as his sometime mentor, sometime adversary.  And John Childermass, Norrell's servant and conscience, is brilliantly realized.  And I could say the same about just about every other character in this book.  Every step of the way, her vast, crowded, action-packed, yet intensely thoughtful book works perfectly.  I usually hate these analogies, but imagine if Jane Austen teamed up with China Mieville to write a book with J. K. Rowling, William Makepeace Thackeray, and John Le Carre as an editorial advisory committee.  (By the way, I am a historian who works on this period, so when I say that this book works as a historical novel as well as a fantasy novel, it's the real deal.)	2004-09-07
US	52771226	R30D23S8QNMFEE	0805073205	885405767	Oracle Night: A Novel (Auster, Paul)	Books	2	1	5	N	N	Well-written but almost unbelievably cruel to its characters	Years ago, Paul Auster wrote a novel called THE MUSIC OF CHANCE, and that phrase sums up all of his novels.  In just about every one I've read, chance and circumstance play havoc with his characters' lives, hopes, and dreams.  This novel takes that theme to pathological extremes.  In these pages Auster is almost unbelievably cruel to his characters.  Not one person in this book escapes its pages unscathed.  Malign chance waits at every turn to blight his characters' lives.  And, as if that is not enough, not one person in this book behaves with any kind of reliability, consistency, or coherence.  Line for line, Paul Auster writes clean, tight, often gripping prose, as he always does.  But this grotesque exercise in narrative sadism may well leave you feeling battered and degraded.	2004-08-31
US	52771226	RYCL97N8P615M	0743224663	836330342	Lincoln at Cooper Union: The Speech That Made Abraham Lincoln President	Books	5	49	50	N	N	Excellent analysis on all counts	Harold Holzer's excellent analysis of the Cooper Union speech is a model of historical and rhetorical scholarship.  Written with clarity and unpretentiousness, it offers a wonderful view of the political world of 1859-1860, of Lincoln as a would-be candidate for president seeking to make his first big venture in the East, of the turbulent and anti-Republican metropolis of New York City, of the ordeal of railroad travel, of the growing power of photographic images in politics, and of the interactions of newspapers and politics.  Holzer more than proves his case that the Cooper Union speech was vital to making Lincoln President, and that it was one of his greatest and most intellectually formidable speeches.  Highly recommended as a book that belongs with Garry Wills's LINCOLN AT GETTYSBURG and Ronald White's  LINCOLN'S GREATEST SPEECH: THE SECOND INAUGURAL ADDRESS.  Now if Holzer would only tackle Lincoln's First Inaugural Address and his 1838 Young Men's Lyceum speech in the same way....	2004-05-27
US	52771226	R2XPPI9OD8FVY1	0792265319	517589387	Mr. Jefferson's University (National Geographic Directions)	Books	4	10	15	N	N	Excellent study of Jefferson and his university.	This is one of Garry Wills's best books -- an engaging, thoughtful, energetic study of how Thomas Jefferson set out to found the University of Virginia, and devoted himself to imagining his ideal &quot;academical village&quot; and realizing that ideal from layout to architectural design to choosing the faculty to drafting the curriculum to picking the textbooks, overcoming nearly every obstacle in his path.  In this book, Wills sees Jefferson plain, and his portrait is admirably balanced between admiration for his virtues and rueful acknowledgment of his faults.  My only complaints are that Wills uses his usual idiosyncratic way of citing sources, and that he puts in a bit too much detail on the University's architecture for anyone not well-versed in the subject.  Otherwise I would have awarded this book five stars.<br />-- R. B. Bernstein, Adjunct Professor of Law, New York Law School	2002-12-06
US	52771226	R5ZA8MZ0K5ZPM	0195121228	338790436	Lighting Out for the Territory: Reflections on Mark Twain and American Culture	Books	5	5	5	N	N	First-rate meditation on Twain and scholarship.	Shelley Fisher Fishkin clearly loves her work.  She loves Mark Twain and she loves being able to write about him and teach about him.  This book, written in an invitingly direct and personal style free of jargon, is best read as a voyage into the life and thought of a fine and creative scholar fully engaged with her chosen subject.<br />The book is arranged into three chapters.  The first, &quot;The Matter of Hannibal,&quot; ably juxtaposes Fishkin's experience of a visit to Hannibal, MO, and her reflections on that visit with her investigation of the role of Hannibal, MO, and Twain's youthful experiences on his classic novels THE ADVENTURES OF TOM SAWYER and THE ADVENTURES OF HUCKLEBERRY FINN.  The second, EXCAVATIONS, is a quasi-autobiographical account of her research and writing of her most famous book (WAS HUCK BLACK? MARK TWAIN AND AFRICAN-AMERICAN VOICES), blended with her reflections on the controversy surrounding HUCKLEBERRY FINN as an allegedly racist book.  The last chapter, RIPPLES AND REVERBERATIONS, is a blend of historical literary criticism and meditations on the uses to which Americans and others have put Mark Twain the writer, &quot;Mark Twain&quot; the self-created character, and Mark Twain the human being.<br />LIGHTING OUT FOR THE TERRITORY is a lovely book; it's a dream to read, and it's thought-provoking in the best sense.  It's a model of how literary critics should write both for one another and for a wider audience, and it's an eye-opening examination of one of the greatest writers this country -- or the human race -- ever produced.<br />-- R.B. Bernstein, Adjunct Professor of Law, New York Law School	2002-04-23
US	52771226	R2E09LPKNMWJ70	0446678546	993874673	The Hell with Love: Poems to Mend a Broken Heart	Books	5	9	9	N	N	I read this on Valentine's Day.  It helped so damn much.	This collection, beautifully assembled and edited, helped me so damn much on Valentine's Day (especially hard day when you're still getting over losing someone you love).  The poems are superb and superbly apt, the editors' brief essays are helpful and wonderfully understanding .  Even though most of the essays are aimed at a female readership, a male reader can benefit too.  Highest possible recommendation.	2002-02-15
US	52771226	R2XCEGBDMFVAYB	0300088779	768972928	Affairs of Honor: National Politics in the New Republic	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Great history	I regret that DMM's review is so misleading, for Joanne Freeman's book is nothing like his or her description of it.  Freeman does a fine job of linking dueling to politics.  She shows that politicians used honor disputes, including duels, to repair their reputations and their honor and to damage the reputations and honor of their foes.  She shows in particular how the duels she writes about followed elections, and how politicians on the losing side of those elections provoked honor disputes with politicians on the winning side.  Her title is not misleading at all, because the book does deal with national politics (and with state politics and how state politics interacted with national politics) and with how honor culture helped to shape politics.  She doesn't waste a word; she writes very well; and she ably connects the stories she tells to her interpretation of politics and political culture in this period.  All the way around, I don't know a better book on the subject.	2002-01-10
US	52771226	R1QAX38G9QYD1Z	0300088779	768972928	Affairs of Honor: National Politics in the New Republic	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A great book, scholarly and a fun read	I agree with Rob Hardy and the other reviewers who admire this book.  It shows what historians can do if they care about doing great work and about making it accessible to people without PhD after their names.  Joanne Freeman must be a wonderful teacher if her teaching style is anything like what you find in this book.  She knows how to tell a great story, but what's even better is that she knows how to use that story to shine fresh light on stuff that we always thought we'd never be able to figure out.<br />I don't understand why one of the reviewers below complains about her using the term &quot;dead white males.&quot;  Everyone from Allan Bloom and William Bennett on the right to Gary Nash on the left uses the term, so what gives?  And I thought that Freeman did a great job of sifting and weighing all the explanations for the Burr/Hamilton duel; anyone who didn't obviously didn't pay attention to the notes.  Freeman's research is awesome; is there a piece of paper that one of these guys scribbled on that she didn't consult?<br />I hope lots of people find this one under their Christmas trees.	2001-12-21
US	52771226	R1BYDUNN90ECP3	1931082049	169496080	Alexander Hamilton: Writings (Library of America)	Books	5	65	69	N	N	The best one-volume Hamilton collection ever assembled.	With this volume, Alexander Hamilton assumes his rightful place in the ranks of the Library of America -- not only as a key historical figure in the founding of the Republic, but as a master of political argument and writing.  With care and sensitivity, Prof. Joanne B. Freeman of Yale University has assembled the best and most comprehensive one-volume Hamilton collection ever assembled -- but she has done something even more important:  She has presented us with a thorough, judicious, and enlightening documentary life of Hamilton.  This book will be indispensable to anyone who wants to understand the origins of the Constitution, of the American economy, and of the nation's political system and public life.  It also will be indispensable to anyone who wants to understand Alexander Hamilton as a political, constitutional, and economic thinker, as a key shaper of American government and public policy, and as a human being.<br />-- R. B. Bernstein, Adjunct Professor of Law, New York Law School	2001-10-29
US	52771226	R1B6ML2EIYCTOQ	0300088779	768972928	Affairs of Honor: National Politics in the New Republic	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Review the book, not the blurbs.	The reviewer from USA misrepresents the nature of Professor Freeman's book and, in addition, blames the book for the unrelated sins of one of the people who provided a blurb for it.<br />First, what Freeman does is to show that politics and political ideas and actions take place in a cultural context.  She does _not_ retail sleazy gossip.  Instead, she shows that the climate of anxiety surrounding the launch of the new government under the Constitution left politicians so anxious and so suspicious of one another that they regulary used every weapon at their disposal to fight the political battles of their era.  Had the reader from USA actually read the book, he -- or she -- would not have so misrepresented its argument.<br />Second, many historians have made the mistake of confining honor to the South.  To take a shot at Freeman for providing a valuable corrective to this short-sighted literature makes no sense.<br />Third, turning from the book to the blurbs, the reader from USA has no reason to lambaste Bertram Wyatt-Brown, and thus it makes no sense why the reader from USA knocks Freeman for having earned Bertran Wyatt-Brown's plaudits.<br />Fourth, Joseph Ellis's troubles have no relevance to this book.  For one thing, even the BOSTON GLOBE, which exposed Joseph Ellis's lies about his military service, noted that there was no reason to question his scholarship.  For another, the reader from USA has no comment on the highly favorable comments on the book's dust jacket by such historians as Jan Lewis of Rutgers-Newark and Jack Rakove of Stanford.  Obviously, the only blurb that caught that reader's eye was the blurb by Joseph Ellis.  Perhaps that review is therefore a review of the blurb and not of the book.	2001-09-27
US	52771226	R2S0JOWQWFXK52	0300088779	768972928	Affairs of Honor: National Politics in the New Republic	Books	5	18	21	N	N	Putting political substance in cultural context is vital.	Regrettably, it appears that the reviewer from Paterson, NJ, either hasn't bothered to read the book or has not read it with care.  Professor Freeman proves beyond dispute that previous historians have not understood the central importance of honor culture in the late 18th and early 19th centuries.  Professor Freeman also proves beyond dispute that it is impossible to understand substantive political issues without careful attention to their cultural context.<br />One important point:  Joseph E. Ellis and Jack N. Rakove are pretty dang good political historians who have paid close attention to substantive political issues in this period.  And they both praise this book highly for its vital contribution not only to our understanding of politics in the early American republic but also to our understanding of how to do political history.	2001-09-15
US	52771226	R1NJFA7CKJOKQ4	0684849550	595782502	Ellipsis: A John Marshall Tanner Novel	Books	2	5	8	N	N	Tired, mechanical, and unconvincing	I used to love Stephen Greenleaf's John Marshall Tanner mysteries, but ELLIPSIS was tired, mechanical, and unconvincing.  It reminded me of the reasons why Robert B. Parker's Spenser novels ran out of steam.  For one thing, there is too much midlife crisis angst on the part of Tanner, too much relationship trouble between him and his girlfriend.  For another, there are two different women of mature years who are raunchy and amusing and make Tanner blush -- one is plausible, two are excessive.  For a third, the plot is warmed-over.  I was reminded of Parker's LOOKING FOR RACHEL WALLACE.  Again the p.i. bodyguards a major female celebrity writer.  Of course, in the Parker book the writer was lesbian; here she's straight and a romance novelist.  A promising plot development -- allegations of plagiarism -- goes nowhere.  Another plot line, a carryover from a previous book in the series, becomes increasingly significant, but if you haven't read the previous book you'll be frustrated and put off by the too-neat tying together of disparate plot lines.  Finally, the ending of the Tanner character study in this book depends on a &quot;deus-ex-machina&quot; ending that had me throwing the book across the room.	2001-09-09
US	52771226	RJC3VGJ0YOKVY	0300088779	768972928	Affairs of Honor: National Politics in the New Republic	Books	5	41	44	N	N	Pathbreaking scholarship, and a joy to read.	This is that rarest of books -- a work of pathbreaking scholarship that's a joy to read. Joanne B. Freeman, assistant professor of history at Yale University, combines the analytical talents of a subtle historian, the story-telling ability of a first-rate journalist, and the gift of empathy with historical figures. Her remarkable book examines the ways that the leading figures of the first decades of the American republic practiced politics. In her pages, such leading spirits as George Washington, John Adams, Thomas Jefferson, and Alexander Hamilton are not serene philosopher statesmen but self-conscious, harried, angry, fearful, insistent, sometimes even fanatical -- as they were in real life.<BR>Freeman examines a series of episodes -- which previous historians have either overlooked altogether or have dismissed as idiosyncratic or crazy -- and explains them by setting them into the context of a key value that pervaded the political life and assumptions of the period: honor. With skill and grace, she shows that a political leader's honor and reputation were essential components of his case for his own right to be seen as a political leader. Indeed, many of the most bitter and previously inexplicable conflicts of the early Republic can be explained by reference to politicians' battles to shore up their own honor and reputation and to undermine that of their opponents.<BR>Freeman's book begins with an incisive prologue recapturing the sense of uncertainty and anxiety that accompanied the launch of the American constitutional experiment in 1789.<BR>Chapter 1 examines &quot;the politics of self-presentation&quot; through a close, attentive interpretation of one of the minor classics of American political writing, Senator William Maclay's diary of his service in the First Congress (1789-1791). In these pages she brings out just how self-conscious these politicians were about the ways they dressed, traveled, spoke, and otherwise held the political stage.<BR>Chapter 2, &quot;Slander, Poison, Whispers, and Fame,&quot; analyzes the art of political gossip, focusing on Thomas Jefferson's skilled collection and use of gossip about friends and foes. Freeman demonstrates that, far from being the disinterested philosopher he liked to portray himself as being, Jefferson was a shrewd and ruthless politician thoroughly engaged in the political cut-and-thrust of his time.<BR>Chapter 3, &quot;The Art of Paper War,&quot; shifts focus to the various forms of practicing politics in print; it is built around the lengthy series of newspaper essays with which former President John Adams sought in 1809 to defend his historical reputation against an 1800 pamphlet penned by Alexander Hamilton. Freeman ably anatomizes the various forms of political writing -- letters, pamphlets, newspaper essays, broadsides, and so forth -- by reference to their purposes and their intended audiences.<BR>Chapter 4, &quot;Dueling as Politics,&quot; Freeman examines a perennial favorite among episodes from this period -- the fatal duel in 1804 between Alexander Hamilton and Aaron Burr. Freeman cuts through the fog of myth, legend, and psychohistorical speculation that have surrounded this most famous duel in American history. She demonstrates that the honor dispute between Burr and Hamilton was only one of a series of such disputes spanning the years between 1795 and 1807, and that this series of disputes (some rising to the level of an actual duel, some averted by negotiation) marked the fault-lines of politics in New York among Federalists, Clintonian Republicans (followers of George and later DeWitt Clinton), and Burrites. Indeed, dueling was the ultimate form of political combat -- in which politicians risked being killed and killing to vindicate their honor and reputation, and thus their claims to be political leaders. In this brilliant piece of historical detective-work, Freeman has solved the mystery of why these men went to the dueling-ground in Weehawken, leavingthe reader understanding why they felt compelled to duel.<BR>Chapter 5 brings all these strands together by focusing on the election of 1800 and showing how the culture of honor and the politics of reputation were key factors in shaping the outcome of the most critical presidential election up to that time. Here Freeman's central character is the enigmatic Aaron Burr. As with her earlier chapters, Freeman begins by taking Burr seriously and paying close attention to what he said, did, and wrote. Her nuanced and perspicacious investigation of the elections of 1796 and 1800 brings out how, in a period celebrated by other historians as witnessing the triumph of the first &quot;party system,&quot; the politics of honor and reputation had far more than party to do with the actual outcome of the election and the process by which the crisis of 1800-1801 was resolved.<BR>Freeman's deft epilogue examines the reverberations of honor culture and the politics of reputation in the struggles of key figures of this period to shape how history would view them and their thoughts, words, and deeds. Her central player is the Federalist New Hampshire politician William Plumer, who was determined (as a Senator during Jefferson's presidency) to collect and preserve the history of his time and vindicate himself and his allies. So, too, Jefferson, James Madison, Timothy Pickering, and other contemporaries struggled to fix their versions of the immediate past and transmit them to posterity. Indeed, the family of Federalist James Bayard, who had played a vital role in determining the electoral deadlock of 1800-1801, persisted in vindicating the role of their ancestor as late as 1907.<BR>Freeman's fine book is formidably researched, and yet she carries her learning lightly. AFFAIRS OF HONOR sets a new standard for historical scholarship, not only in the rigor of its research and argument, but also in its lucid, accessible presentation. Any reader without any background in the subject will beable to pick up this book and read it with enjoyment and enlightenment. This is what books are for.	2001-08-30
US	52771226	R3B2GBS56JWXRV	0345443020	981903971	Perdido Street Station (Bas-Lag)	Books	5	11	18	N	N	Breathtaking -- like no other novel I've ever read.	I just stayed up till 1 a.m. to finish PERDIDO STREET STATION, and I am still reeling from this magnificent book.  Even having read China Mieville's great first novel KING RAT left me completely unprepared for the many wonders of PERDIDO STREET STATION.<br />In this book, Mieville creates a fully-realized world, the world of Bas-Rag, with a huge city, New Corbuzon, that is at once nearly exactly like and unnervingly different from London.  He populates this world with nearly a dozen different sentient races, with cyberpunk science and magic side by side, with writing of extraordinary, compelling power and visions at once of magnificent beauty and soul-gripping horror.  His story is exciting, disturbing, and enthralling.  His characters are deftly sketched and utterly believable.<br />Mieville carefully lays out at least four different strands of story and then braids them together with unerring skill -- the kind of plotting that makes backbreakingly hard work look easy.  At its surface level, it is a gripping adventure story; but it is far, far more than that, for Mieville regularly brings the reader face-to-face with the moral dimensions of his characters' words and deeds.  He makes us care about their world, about their struggles to understand their world.<br />And, on top of that, he has left quite enough room for further novels set in this amazing world that he has created.<br />I beg him to write more, and swiftly.  I'm about to write this guy a fan letter, and I just don't do that sort of thing.	2001-06-27
US	52771226	R3GGET8I4BZSJ9	0312890729	318023725	King Rat	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Amazing first novel that even makes grossness interesting.	China Mieville's first novel is an amazing and horrifying tale of a young man who discovers that his father has been murdered and then that he is chief suspect.  You'd think that that would be enough for a riveting novel, but that's only the beginning.  He then discovers that he is not what and who he thinks he is, and his voyage of self-discovery combines with his rediscovery of London and its many levels.  And, as the review title suggests, there are things about this book that, described baldly and out of context, would gross out most people but which work superbly in Mieville's capable hands.  I don't want to sound cryptic, but I cannot in good conscience give away too much of this remarkable book's plot.  It is beautifully realized, amazingly written, and haunting.  I took other reviewers' advice and read this one before his latest, PERDIDO STREET STATION.  It's excellent advice.  (I'll review PERDIDO when I've finished it.)  China Mieville is a remarkable writer, one with an amazing career ahead of him.	2001-06-16
US	52771226	R1NBNFUJI5UOO1	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	3	530	658	N	N	A great biography must be more than a good life's story.	John Adams deserves a biography that will capture the whole of his dramatic, challenging, and adventurous life ... and oh, how I wish that David McCullough's book was it.  The book has several strengths.  McCullough clearly admires Adams, and he has done extensive research into the physical feel of Adams's life and times -- how it must have felt to ride horseback from Braintree, Massachusetts, to Philadelphia in January of 1776, for example.  He also knows how to tell a story (though even for experts, the first chapter is so tangled in chronology that only the most attentive reader will be able to sort it out).<br />But ... there are a couple of large &quot;buts&quot; about this book.<br />The first is, in some ways, the &quot;flip side&quot; of the strength of this book.  As with his life of Harry S Truman, McCullough is bent on giving us a sense of John Adams's life as he lived and felt it.  But this emphasis on experience shortchanges the dimension of Adams that he most would have wanted posterity to know:  Adams was an intellectual, often one of the most daring and profound thinkers of his time, and a key figure in what he deemed the greatest American contribution to world civilization -- the development of Americans' ideas about politics and constitutional government.  Unfortunately, McCullough gives short shrift to John Adams's writings on these vital topics, writings over which Adams labored with such devotion and urgency.  He does not grasp why Adams's magnificent pamphlet THOUGHTS ON GOVERNMENT (1776) was as important and influential as COMMON SENSE and as vital a landmark in the evolution of Americans' thinking about constitutional government, nor does he grasp the significance of Adams's other revolutionary writings.  He quotes a few choice bits, retails some superficial conventional wisdom about them, and moves on.  Interested readers should instead consult two books by C. Bradley Thompson -- JOHN ADAMS AND THE SPIRIT OF LIBERTY [Lawrence: Univ. Press ofKansas, 1998] and THE REVOLUTIONARY WRITINGS OF JOHN ADAMS [Indianapolis: Liberty Fund, 2000.]<br />The second problem is McCullough's use of Adams's own words.  Adams scholars will be alarmed and dismayed to find familiar quotations turn up in these pages truncated, even garbled.  The reason is not hard to find.  Turn to the last pages, where McCullough provides his references, and you will find that he is depending on Charles Francis Adams's 19th-century edition THE WORKS OF JOHN ADAMS, published between 1850 and 1856.  The younger Adams was the best historical editor of his generation, but in the process of editing his grandfather he smoothed out John Adams's syntax and left the texts he published generally unreliable.<br />To be sure, the vast multivolume ADAMS PAPERS project has not probed far into John Adams's life.  Certainly, however, for the period covered by Part I of this three-part life, the volumes are finished, and McCullough could have used them easily.<br />So, too, McCullough fails to take account in his pages of the burgeoning scholarship on John Adams; though he lists the books in his bibliography, his account of Adams's life leaves them far astern. <br />The challenge of writing a popular biography is considerable, but it should not be met at the expense of ignoring the intellectual dimension of one's subject or of scanting the extensive recent scholarship dealing with the person you're writing about.  As with H. W. Brands's THE FIRST AMERICAN, on Benjamin Franklin, McCullough provides the joys and virtues of a good story but does almost nothing to explain why that story of a great life matters beyond its sheer entertainment value.<br />-- R. B. Bernstein, Adjunct Professor of Law, New York Law School	2001-05-22
US	52771226	RICV5ENH07NTM	0393020444	932833170	The Holocaust on Trial	Books	3	34	45	N	N	Informative journalistic account, but unsatisfying.	IRVING v. PENGUIN and LIPSTADT (2000) was a remarkable law suit, pitting Holocaust denier David Irving against the noted scholar Deborah Lipstadt (author of DENYING THE TRUTH) and her publisher.  Under the British law of libel, Irving could force Lipstadt and Penguin to prove the truth of their claims that he was a Holocaust denier who distorted history in the service of his racist agenda, instead of a respected historian who dared to take a revisionist view of Hitler's responsibility -- or lack of responsibility -- for the Holocaust.<br />The story that D.D. Guttenplan tells is often informative and occasionally riveting, but unfortunately it does little more than what you'd get from a thorough journalistic account of the case, which is what this book originally was.  Guttenplan does not do an adequate job of assessing the phenomenon of Holocaust denial -- or of the laws that several European nations and Canada have passed making Holocaust denial a crime.  He is usually good on the cut-and-thrust of the trial, but, having actually read Judge Charles Gray's mammoth and devastating opinion, I wish that Guttenplan either had given more room to analyzing it or had reprinted it as an appendix for the reader.<br />In sum, there are other, better books on the phenomenon of Holocaust denial, and I regret that this book was not better.<br />-- R.B. Bernstein, Adjunct Professor of Law, New York Law School	2001-05-06
US	52771226	RYKQUB82WK0IB	0940322668	279279018	The Anatomy of Melancholy (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	5	143	148	N	N	No booklover should skip this one -- in its best edition.	Of all the editions of THE ANATOMY OF MELANCHOLY that have ever been published, this may be the best for the general reader.  The NEW YORK REVIEW OF BOOKS CLASSIC edition wisely reprints the great 1932 Everyman's Library edition, with its wonderful introduction by the noted bookman Holbrook Jackson.  (Readers are advised to skim or skip the rather pretentious new introduction by William H. Gass.)<br />Unlike the &quot;all-English&quot; edition referenced..., the Everyman/NYRBClassic edition gives the Latin tags as Burton scattered them through his work and translates each and every one, either in brackets immediately afterward, or (sometimes) in an endnote to each of the three volumes (now bound as one).  I've tried to read the &quot;all-English&quot; edition, and it's disappointing, because it turns out that Burton wanted readers to read the Latin tags whether they could understand them or not.  He included their syllables in the rhythm of his prose, so as you read this edition, you can almost hear him quote, then translate, then continue onward.<br />No booklover should skip this one, and this is the edition to have.	2001-04-26
US	52771226	RC7L4BL4O81PX	1885477600	34874218	Diagnosing Jefferson: Evidence of a Condition That Guided His Beliefs, Behavior, and Personal Associations	Books	1	23	37	N	N	An example of how biography can go wrong by ignoring history	I agree with the reviewer who stresses how speculative and ungrounded in research this book is.  The author has a perfect right to write any kind of book he wants, but he does not have a right to a chorus of uncritical praise.  If he is seeking to make a contribution to historical biography, he has an obligation to live up to the scholarly rigor of the genre.  As a Jefferson scholar and biographer-in-progress, I am dubious in the extreme as to the claims this book makes.  (I have gone through it and I have gone through the associated website -- [...] ).<br />This book's problems are reminiscent of the problems of writing psychohistory.  Like many psychohistorians, the author treats aspects of a historical figure's (Jefferson's) life and behavior in an ahistorical fashion, generalizing as if his life and behavior should be understood purely in individualized, present-day terms, rather than in historical context.  The danger of applying a modern clinical/psychological analysis to a man who was born in 1743 and died in 1826 is real.  (The best example of the danger of ahistorical pigeonholing is the claim often made that Alexander Hamilton committed suicide in 1804 by taking part in the duel with Aaron Burr.  This claim assumes many things that turn out not to be true of dueling in the period or of the specific duel between Hamilton and Burr -- e.g., that duelists were supposed to shoot to kill, that the purpose of a duel was to kill your opponent, etc.)<br />I too wish that a professional historian or biographer, someone with mastery of the complex record of Jefferson's life and times, had collaborated on this book.  At best, the verdict is &quot;not proven.&quot;<br />-- R.B. Bernstein, Adjunct Professor of Law, New York Law School	2001-04-20
US	52771226	R11JXDK3EB6YIJ	0934211663	304282298	The Jefferson-Hemings Myth : An American Travesty	Books	1	31	72	N	N	Disappointing and misleading &quot;defense&quot; of Jefferson	The authors who have banded together to &quot;defend&quot; Jefferson from the &quot;travesty&quot; of the &quot;charge&quot; that he and Sally Hemings had a sexual liaison that produced children have done all involved a sad disservice.  The personal hostility of the authors to such scholars as Annette Gordon-Reed, and to the leadership of the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation, undermines any attempt to take their position seriously.  They have assumed their conclusions and are determined to pound them home.  They quote out of context, omit vital factual data, present sources as saying the opposite of what they say, and otherwise muddy the waters to the point of impenetrability.<br />-- R. B. Bernstein, Adjunct Professor of Law, New York Law School	2001-04-14
US	52771226	R29NUZJHNROQMB	0192876902	888964944	Tocqueville (Past Masters)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	The best place to start to understand Tocqueville.	This is one of the finest volumes in Oxford's PAST MASTERSX series.  In barely 140 pages, Larry Siedentop deftly conveys the high points of the life of Alexis de Tocqueville (more skilfully, in fact, than Andre Jardin's thorough but ponderous life), and also presents a superbly lucid sketch of Tocqueville's political thought.  He ably explains why Tocqueville should have become interested in America as the harbinger of democratic governance and society for Western Europe.  He also offers an analysis of DEMOCRACY IN AMERICA that should be required reading for anyone attempting to read that great, complex book; one of the best features of his analysis is his explanation of the differing arguments of Volume I (which focuses on the structure of the American political system) and Volume II (which examines the effects of democracy on American society).  Siedentop then elucidates Tocqueville's further work on the concept of democracy, both as politician in the Second French Republic and as investigator of the causes of the French Revolution, both in THE OLD REGIME AND THE FRENCH REVOLUTION and in the unfinished sequel.  Siedentop's greatest achievement in this fine book is that he shows how all the elements of Tocqueville's intellectual journey form a coherent whole and inform one another.  An intellectual tour de force that should not be out of print.<br />-- R.B. Bernstein, Adjunct Professor of Law, New York Law School	2001-04-14
US	52771226	R2ERIZS8UN6MZJ	0452277051	203341062	The People's Choice: A Novel	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Explores the gray area between politics and the Constitution	THE PEOPLE'S CHOICE is a rare find -- a political thriller that plausibly explores the gray area between politics and the Constitution.<br />As a constitutional historian who had to endure much heat and almost no light during the convulsions of November-December 2000, I returned to this book gratefully.  Greenfield is right on target with his assessment of the ways in which the media desperately seek to fork over simple answers, whether true or false, to unexpected political and constitutional quandaries.  He is also deadly accurate in his assessment of the workings of the electoral college.<br />Mindless celebration of the achievements of the beloved Founding Fathers do violence to the history made by the generation who framed and adopted the Constitution.  The original expectations underlying the Electoral College disintegrated within a decade of its adoption.  Its architects expected it to select a pool of candidates from whom the House would choose the President and Vice President.  They did not expect the rise of national partisan competition for the Presidency, nor that the Electoral College would actually agree on winners of Presidential elections most of the time.  Interested readers should consult Lawrence Longley's and Neal Peirce's THE ELECTORAL COLLEGE PRIMER 2000 (Yale, 1999).<br />We have seen an increasing mismatch between the expectations of the Revolutionary generation for the constitutional system and the system's actual workings over time.  Such books as THE PEOPLE'S CHOICE are therefore valuable, even essential reading.<br />-- R. B. Bernstein, adjunct professor of law, New York Law School	2001-03-14
US	52771226	RC5EGQELG0QZQ	0195024036	27728657	The Dred Scott Case: Its Significance in American Law and Politics	Books	5	34	35	N	N	A masterpiece; the finest study of a Supreme Court case.	When this book came out, in 1978, it was immediately -- and justly -- hailed as a triumph of historical scholarship and literature.  Thoroughly researched, rigorous in its analysis, and written in calm, understated, lucid prose, THE DRED SCOTT CASE is an essential examination of perhaps the Supreme Court's most notorious &quot;self-inflicted wound.&quot;  Don E. Fehrenbacher had already shared a Pulitzer Prize with his late colleague David M. Potter for THE IMPENDING CRISIS, 1848-1861, a book that Potter did not live to finish and that Fehrenbacher completed and saw through the publication process.  Fehrenbacher then returned to this study and won a Pulitzer Prize in his own right.<br />THE DRED SCOTT CASE is meticulous in its sifting of the historical currents and processes that led to the litigation that produced the case; in its reconstruction of the actions of all parties to the case and the arguments of the lawyers; in its unearthing of the political maneuverings by the Justices and by President-elect James M. Buchanan; and in its analysis of the catastrophic effects of a Supreme Court decision that its author, Chief Justice Roger B. Taney, intended to lay the slavery issue to rest once and for all.<br />This is not only the definitive study of its subject; it is the finest examination ever undertaken of the history of a Supreme Court case and the history that that case made.  It is a tribute to what historians can do when they are at their best.<br />This book will soon be reprinted (April 2001) by Oxford University Press.  It should be read in tandem with Fehrenbacher's last book, the posthumous THE SLAVEHOLDING REPUBLIC.  Its return to print is welcome news.<br />-- R. B. Bernstein, adjunct professor of law, New York Law School	2001-03-14
US	52771226	R1YAAUTS2ET34E	1881089576	458251209	Thomas Jefferson: An Anthology	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Superb, concise anthology -- incisive and readable.	It seems all but impossible that we need yet another anthology of Thomas Jefferson.  Even so, this calm, judicious selection by Peter S. Onuf, the Thomas Jefferson Foundation Professor of History at the University of Virginia and one of the leading Jefferson scholars of our time, fills a gap in the literature and may well be recommended as a superb beginning place to understand Jefferson and his place in history.<br />Onuf's focus is on Jefferson as a political thinker and actor, and his expert choices of passages from Jefferson's writings highlight the main contours of Jefferson's thought as it stayed constant and as it changed over time.  His selections span the full range of Jefferson's political career -- from hsi first major pamphlet &quot;A Summary View of the Rights of British America&quot; (1774), to his drafting of the Declaration of Independence and his work on the revision of Virginia's laws in the late 1770s, to his painful two terms as governor (1779-1781), to his writing of NOTES ON THE STATE OF VIRGINIA, to his diplomatic service in France (1784-1789), to his unhappy years as Secretary of State (1789-1793) and Vice President (1797-1801), to his Presidency (1801-1809), and finally his struggles with the roles of senior statesman, ex-President, educational reformer, and sage (1809-1826).  Onuf does not shrink from examining the contradictions that loom large in Jefferson's words and deeds.  His lucid and enlightening introduction draws on a major article he did in 1993, &quot;The Scholars' Jefferson,&quot; revised and updated to take account of more recent scholarship.<br />Two gaps only mar this fine book.  One is its lack of a chronology for those who are unfamiliar with Jefferson's life and career, and the other is its lack of an index.  Perhaps these deficiencies can be remedied in future editions of this fine, valuable, and otherwise highly useful volume.<br />-- R. B. Bernstein, Adjunct Professor of Law, New York Law School	2001-03-05
US	52771226	R1NXSQ92ZZ4XAU	0140269746	315072708	The Portable Hannah Arendt (Viking Portable Library)	Books	5	80	81	N	N	Superb introduction to a great mind.	Hannah Arendt (1906-1975) was one of the great thinkers of the twentieth century.  She was equally at home in philosophy, political theory, and history, and blended all three disciplines in her pursuit of integrity in political thought and action.  This fine book is perhaps the single best place to begin to get to know her thought and work.  The introduction is first-rate -- clear, accessible, yet intellectually rigorous, respectful of Arendt while critical.  The choices of readings -- both complete and self-contained essays and extracts from larger books such as ORIGINS OF TOTALITARIANISM, EICHMANN IN JERUSALEM, and ON REVOLUTION -- are excellent.  The annotations don't get in the way and are of much aid to the reader.  The bibliography of works by and about Arendt is excellent.  All in all, this is a superb addition to the VIKING PORTABLE series.	2000-10-08
US	52771226	R24NIR6T79ZLIQ	0394700600	25815157	Declaration of Independence: A Study in the History of Political Ideas	Books	5	41	46	N	N	Even though dated, still one of the best on the subject.	Carl L. Becker's book on the Declaration of Independence first appeared  nearly eighty years ago, and yet it is still a valuable and stimulating  study of its subject.  It is dated now, for two large reasons:<br />First,  Becker wrote before the revolution in studying the history of ideas, and  thus unavoidably predates the close-focus examination of the controversy  between Great Britain and her American colonies in the years from 1765 to  1776. Two recent books should be read alongside Becker's monograph --  Pauline Maier's AMERICAN SCRIPTURE: MAKING THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE  (New York: Knopf, 1997; Vintage paperback, 1998), and John Phillip Reid,  CONSTITUTIONAL HISTORY OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION, abridged ed. (Madison:  University of Wisconsin Press, 1995).<br />Second, Becker focuses on Jefferson  as *the* author of the Declaration, neglecting that he was actually the  draftsman selected by the Continental Congress and his colleagues within  the drafting committee.  Thus, the Declaration -- no matter what Jefferson  said about it in later life -- was not primarily a window into his own  thinking about natural rights and democracy, but rather the final statement  by Congress as to the reasons for breaking ties with Britain.  To be sure,  later generations have read it as an expression of Jefferson's mind --  rather than of &quot;the American mind,&quot; as he put it.  But, as Maier  shows in AMERICAN SCRIPTURE, Jefferson's thinking was nowhere near as  unique or advanced on these subjects as later hero-worshipping biographers  have suggested.<br />In particular, as Maier has shown, the age-old dispute  about whether Jefferson was or was not influenced by Locke is somewhat  beside the point.  Even so, Becker's fine book is indispensable for  deciding whether we should read the Declaration through Lockean or  Jeffersonian lenses, and whether we should regard it as a codification of  American aspirations or as a hypocritical catalogue of principles we cannotlive up to.<br />R. B. Bernstein, adjunct professor of law, New York Law  School	2000-09-04
US	52771226	R3APX3FTWDTGMJ	0865971579	444099057	Colonial Origins of the American Constitution	Books	5	27	34	N	N	Superb resource for those studying the Constitution's roots.	Donald S. Lutz, professor of political science at the University of Houston, has long studied the colonial antecedents and development of  American constitutionalism.  In this fine documentary anthology, he  presents the fullest collection of sources yet published to document the  Americans' constitutional experiments from the 1630s through the 1770s.   Many Americans forget that the time span between the first permanent  English settlement in America and the declaration of American independence,  (1607-1776, or 169 years), is the same length as the time span between  independence and the death of Franklin Delano Roosevelt (1776-1945).  That  long, contentious, and intellectually fruitful history deserves to be  better known, and Lutz is eminently qualified to present and interpret it.   This fine book is a worthy companion to his monographs POPULAR CONSENT AND  POPULAR CONTROL (Louisiana State University Press, 1980), THE ORIGINS OF  AMERICAN CONSTITUTIONALISM (Louisiana State University Press, 1988), and A  PREFACE TO AMERICAN POLITICAL THEORY (University Press of Kansas,  1991).<br />The book begins with an excellent and lucid analytical  introduction and then presents the full texts, with informative headnotes,  of eighty documents of American political foundation -- organized by  individual state, with a final grouping devoted to  &quot;confederations.&quot;  A fine brief bibliography of editions of  colonial and state documents concludes the book.  My only regret is that  the volume lacks an index.<br />Finally, a word about the other review of this  book.  It is grotesquely antihistorical to claim that the United States is  a Christian nation.  To be sure, the vast majority of the settlers of the  colonies founded in North America were Protestant Christians -- and most of  the remainder were Roman Catholics.  However, in Rhode Island and in  Pennsylvania, the colony's founders and later governors carefully preserved  religious liberty (under the label of toleration) for anyone  &quot;demeaning themselves peaceably.&quot;  Furthermore, the generallly  libertarian and enlightened members of the Revolutionary generation of  Americans went beyond the model of a majority's toleration for a dissenting  minority.  In such states as Virginia, Rhode Island, Pennsylvania, and New  York, they embraced religious liberty to protect the church from the  corrupting influence of the state, and the state from the corrupting  influence of organized religion, and the individual human mind from the  dangerous alliance between the two.<br />-- Richard B. Bernstein, Adjunct  Professor of Law, New York Law School	1999-10-31
US	52771226	RQUXGLTQH8PYE	0425167720	89472327	An Instance of the Fingerpost	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Remarkable but demanding historical novel/mystery.	Readers who are not already conversant with the history of science in Restoration England may have reason to gripe about this book, but anyone who does have even slight familiarity with that subject will love AN  INSTANCE OF THE FINGERPOST.<br />I am not sure why people insist on  juxtaposing it with THE NAME OF THE ROSE, for these books are alike only in  being erudite and historical with a murder to solve.  Otherwise, they are  profoundly different -- but readers who took to Eco's fine novel of ideas  and history and mystery will find comparable ideas and history and mystery  in Pears's pages.<br />By all means read it slowly and carefully and savor it  as it goes, and do not skip ahead.  One of the themes of the book, as the  back cover makes clear, is the chanciness and sometimes the  untrustworthiness of narrators.  I give nothing away by saying  that.<br />Historians and those who are historically inclined will like this  book the best.	1999-10-22
US	52771226	R28K6KUKVVL1BB	0441132456	59969737	Cyber Way	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Clever novel fusing mystery and science fiction.	CYBER WAY is one of those rare science-fiction novels that, while not being a pathbreaking contribution to the genre, well repays rereading.<br />It fuses the kind of mystery pioneered by Tony Hillerman (in which Navaho culture is central to the plot and most of the cast is Navaho) with  cutting-edge science fiction dealing with cyberspace.  The MacGuffin that  drives the plot is not merely a throwaway -- instead, it is central to the  action and plausibly, chillingly developed.<br />There are a few holes -- at  first, the Navaho detective treats his out-of-town white-bread Floridian  colleague with surface good humor and respect but with an undercurrent of  impatience and condescension that is never really explained -- but you  forget about them after a while.<br />I wish that Alan Dean Foster would write  another novel or two about Paul Ooljee and Vernon Moody.	1999-10-12
US	52771226	R13G3ZW7SJGNZ8	0670888001	288728605	A Positively Final Appearance: A Journal, 1996-1998	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Another lovely book from a wonderful writer.	Just as he did in MY NAME ESCAPES ME, Sir Alec Guinness pens another lovely book of memories, reflections, anecdotes, musings, and observations drawn from his journal.  He is not just an extraordinary actor, but a  superb writer with a clean, exact, elegant style, a shrewd eye, a wise mind  and soul, a warm heart, and a sharp tongue.<br />Reading his prose is an  unalloyed pleasure, and the only regrets this book inspires are that he has  decided (for good and valid reasons) to retire from acting, and that this  might indeed be his final appearance.  I hope that he will write again.	1999-10-09
US	52771226	R1785MTSA9BFGG	0446384267	812288798	Blessings in Disguise	Books	5	29	31	N	N	Wonderful autobiography by a truly gifted, truly modest man	BLESSINGS IN DISGUISE stands out in my reading as one of the most enjoyable autobiographies I've ever encountered.  Unlike so many actors, Alec Guinness is a truly modest man, and his wry humor and ability to laugh  at himself are extraordinarily refreshing.  Guinness is worth reading even  if you've never seen one of his movies or plays or television appearances.   It is a damn shame that this fine book is apparently out of print.	1999-10-09
US	52771226	R2X0R0JWT425B1	0140277455	855821956	My Name Escapes Me	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Superbly entertaining and thought-provoking	In this, the first of his two volumes (so far, I hope) based on his journal, the great actor Sir Alec Guinness makes writing and reading seem as effortless as his acting.  His graceful, lucid prose is remarkable, as  are his observations and ruminations on his life, on the craft of acting  (he never lets one forget that acting is a craft with exacting standards of  professionalism), on his reading, on his religious life, on the world  around him, and on his family and friends.  He is one of the sharpest yet  kindest observers of the human comedy, and reading him is not only an  unalloyed pleasure but nourishing to the mind and the heart.  Readers of  this book should scour used-bookstores for BLESSINGS IN DISGUISE and should  also hunt down his new book A POSITIVELY FINAL APPEARANCE.	1999-10-09
US	52771226	R394NTITM2S149	0553576380	694600051	Noir	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Dystopia effectively, grimly mixing noir with cyberpunk.	For fans of Hammett and Chandler, NOIR will sound comfortingly -- and discomfortingly -- familiar, for Jeter respects the genre of noir fiction and has handled its conventions with skill and panache.  For fans of  cyberpunk, NOIR will revisit familiar themes in effective and disturbing  ways; Philip K. Dick would have admired this book.  For those who believed  that the two genres could not be crossbred, NOIR will be a  revelation.<br />And yet...<br />I wanted to like this book (and had I liked this  book I would have given it four stars), but I only ended up admiring it  (hence three stars).  For the central character in NOIR acts with a  brutality that at one or two points goes far beyond the boundaries of noir  and well into the territory of sadism.  It would give too much away to  those who want to read the book to go into specifics.  Suffice it to say  that NOIR is emphatically NOT a book for the tender-hearted or the  squeamish.	1999-09-30
US	52771226	R2K3MLUEYKQ8WK	0822319187	422836393	Feminist Accused of Sexual Harassment (Public Planet Books)	Books	2	29	43	N	N	Shrill, unconvincing screed	In this shrill, unconvincing screed Jane Gallop, a noted feminist scholar, seeks to establish a constellation of questionable ideas about what she calls the eroticism of teaching and learning.  Her reminiscences about  being a young scholar in the emerging field of feminism are occasionally  moving.  At the same time, her claims that the charged relationship between  teacher and student should have no boundaries raise far many more questions  than she is disposed to answer.<br />Even if, in the field of feminism, issues  of women's sexuality and sexual power *are* key to the scholarly  enterprise, Gallop nowhere concedes that a teacher is more powerful than a  student or that, because of that disparity in power, boundaries are needed  to protect both teacher and student from the temptation to misuse that  power.  Rather, Gallop giddily celebrates as imperative the erasing of any  and all boundaries.  That two of her students then charged her with sexual  harassment seems, to this reader at least, a sad and predictable case of  reaping what one sows.  That the university committee rendered an  inconclusive verdict in the case seems more an instance of a committee  seeking to push a distasteful matter over the side into oblivion than any  miscarriage of justice -- let alone the betrayal of the teaching process  that Gallop claims it to be.<br />Unlike Tibor Machan (whose review appears  immediately above), I do not think that it matters what sex or gender  Gallop is; the book would be a mostly silly, embarrassing exercise in  self-justification no matter who wrote it.<br />-- R. B. Bernstein, Adjunct  Professor of Law, New York Law School	1999-09-09
US	52771226	R26BL4K4XBFKST	0899683304	703326855	A Case of Conscience	Books	5	9	12	N	N	A classic of science fiction that should return to print NOW	A CASE OF CONSCIENCE is what science fiction should be.<br />It creates two highly believable worlds -- the futuristic earth of A.D. 2050, and the planet Lithia, dominated by an intelligent and reasonable alien  species.<br />It creates believable human characters, and just as believable  alien characters.<br />It grapples with profound ideas about good and evil,  religion and morality, and clashes of cultures and value systems.<br />And it  does all of this with a calm, understated, yet often eloquent writing style  that is a joy to savor and bears repeated re-readings.<br />This is one of the  finest science-fiction novels ever written, and it should return to print  NOW.	1999-08-15
US	52771226	R1D724O65MPFJ3	039606325X	221691503	Doctor Mirabilis;: A novel	Books	5	33	33	N	N	Superb -- both historical fiction and science fiction	This novel about Roger Bacon, the great English medieval monk and scientific thinker, is one of the finest historical novels ever written, and yet -- paradoxically -- it is also one of the finest science-fiction  novels ever written, by one of the greatest writers of science fiction who  ever lived.<br />It is science fiction because it deals with a man who dares  to envision a future changed by scientific discovery and technological  innovation, in a time and a place where such thoughts are all but  unimaginable ... and yet, because Blish so carefully yet unobtrusively  grounds his work in superb historical research and recreation, it works  perfectly.<br />It is a tragedy that this book is out of print.<br />[NOTE:   DOCTOR MIRABILIS is the first volume of what Blish intended to be a trilogy  under the general title AFTER SUCH KNOWLEDGE..., from the ancient question,  &quot;After such knowledge, what forgiveness&quot;?  The middle novel  actually is two novels -- BLACK EASTER and THE DAY AFTER JUDGMENT, which  are entertaining and disturbing but not quite up to the first and third  novels in the sequence.  The last novel in the trilogy is A CASE OF  CONSCIENCE, every bit as magnificent as DOCTOR MIRABILIS.  Some brillaint  publisher should do an omnibus volume.]	1999-08-15
US	52771226	R3G8FBKMK0ZYKW	0192815121	124924300	Seven Men and Two Others (The World's Classics)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Gentle humor blended with worldly wisdom:  superb.	These fictitious biographical sketches are superb blends of gentle humor with worldly wisdom.  This is one of the finest books of the twentieth century and maybe one of the finest books ever written.  If you can, try to  get the hardcover Oxford World's Classics edition, which reproduces the  pencil sketches that Beerbohm (who was a highly talented caricaturist as  well as a fine writer) made of five of the &quot;seven men.&quot;  The  sketches add yet another layer of meaning and resonance to what is already  a marvelous book that easily bears any number of rereadings.	1999-08-13
US	52771226	RIC4LSZP8Z07O	0807824488	224834827	Henry Steele Commager : Midcentury Liberalism and the History of the Present	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Disappointing treatment of a man who deserves better.	Flatly written and repetitive, this book misses many chances to illuminate the life and work of one of the most significant public intellectuals between the 1930s and the 1980s.  Jumonville keeps calling Commager a  Jeffersonian liberal but seems to have no idea about the difference between  Jefferson's thought and the way that thought was understood in the era of  the New Deal.  Also, though Jumonville stresses that Commager used history  to justify political arguments, he is silent on Commager's place in the  1960s controversy about historians writing contemporary history, on which  Commager wrote extensively.<br />The sad thing is that this book is just  scholarly enough to seem to occupy the field, but not scholarly enough to  be the treatment that the subject deserves	1999-08-12
US	52771226	R2OXJRD3643DID	055310702X	765635327	The Icarus Hunt	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Entertaining but ultimately disappointing science fiction.	Timothy Zahn's THE ICARUS HUNT is, for the most part, anentertaining tale aimed at the &quot;hard science fiction&quot; reader-- but ultimately its ending (complete with a concealed set of facts that left this reader snarling in baffled annoyance) disappoints. Contrary to what some other reviews in this forum suggest, it is *not* like STAR WARS, save for its interweaving of humans and aliens as in the famed &quot;Cantina bar.&quot; It has plenty of good ideas, and lots of plot twists ... and yet its resolution is at once too neat and profoundly implausible.  And those pesky concealed facts make a fraud out of much of the novel's set-up, including much of what gives the book its initial charm and interest.	1999-08-06
US	52771226	R28ST7QJ5426L	0874517206	406911307	On the Teaching and Writing of History: Responses to a Series of Questions	Books	5	15	15	N	N	One of the wisest books on writing history ever written.	Someone had the inspired idea of having one of the greatest living historians take part in an interview on his craft and profession.  The result, ably edited and presented by Edward Connery Latham, is one of the  wisest and most accessible books ever written about writing history.   Bailyn's work spans the range of historical scholarship, and he is perhaps  the most influential historian of the second half of the twentieth century;  the list of his graduate students that appeared in the 1991 collection of  essays published in his honor is in turn an honor role of the nation's most  creative, able, and productive historians.<br />I would recommend this book  enthusiastically to anyone who is considering entering the historical  profession or anyone who simply wants to understand what it is that  historians do.  The questions, by Professors Jere R. Danielle and Charles  T. Wood of Dartmouth, are incisive and provocative, and Bailyn's answers  are uniformly enlightening and engaging.  Everyone having a role in the  creation of this wonderful book is to be congratulated.<br />-- Richard B.  Bernstein, Adjunct Professor of Law, New York Law School	1999-04-23
US	52771226	R3QCJA5RWW7LK4	0688171710	526630358	Grand Inquests: The Historic Impeachments Of Justice Samuel Chase And President Andrew Johnson	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Accessible but sadly outdated survey of the subject.	I reviewed this book for the JOURNAL OF AMERICAN HISTORY when it first appeared, and nothing that has happened in the seven years since 1992 has  changed my mind.  Chief Justice Rehnquist writes clearly and well, but his  research and historical perspective are sadly outdated.  For example, he  accepts the hoary myth that there was no good reason at all to consider  Andrew Johnson an appropriate target for impeachment, despite Michael Les  Benedict, THE IMPEACHMENT AND TRIAL OF ANDREW JOHNSON (New York: W. W.  Norton, 1973), a fine study showing that Johnson deliberately violated many  Congressional civil-rights and Reconstruction statutes validly enacted over  his veto, that he also sought to gut efforts to enforce the Fourteenth  Amendment, and that ultimately he deliberately provoked the 1868 attempt to  remove him from office.  Moreover, Rehnquist's analysis of the impeachment  and trial of Justice Samuel Chase fails to situate it in the context of the  previous year's impeachment, conviction, and removal of U.S. District Judge  John Pickering, or the larger battle between Jeffersonian Republicans and  Federalists over the control of the nation's judiciary -- a context without  which the Chase impeachment is all but impossible to understand.  Readers  seeking light on this subject should consult Richard E. Ellis, THE  JEFFERSONIAN CRISIS: COURTS AND POLITICS IN THE YOUNG REPUBLIC (New York:  Oxford University Press, 1971; Norton paperback, 1973).<br />Chief Justice  Rehnquist's book extols executive and judicial independence --  unexceptional and unexceptionable positions, to be sure -- but he also  implicitly denounces the actions of democratically-elected legislatures --  a position more open to question, even as it is consistent with much of his  constitutional jurisprudence as shown in Sue Davis, JUSTICE REHNQUIST AND  THE CONSTITUTION (Princeton: Princeton University Press,  1988).<br />Ultimately, perhaps, readers may value this book for its potential  illumination of the presiding officer over the Senate's trial of President  Clinton, but it adds little or nothing to our understanding of the history  and law of the impeachment process. -- Richard B. Bernstein, Adjunct  Professor of Law, New York Law School	1999-01-28
US	52771226	R2VH9G475VPREA	0553110349	225476603	Reave the Just and Other Tales	Books	3	1	2	N	N	An uneven collection of entertaining stories	Stephen Donaldson's latest book is an uneven collection of entertaining stories.  Seven of the eight are fantasies, some set in medieval Europe, others in a fictitious medieval Muslim world, still others in realms of  outright fantasy.  The writing is sometimes portentous, but more often  clear and unobtrustive.  Of the stories he offers, few linger with the  reader after the book is closed.	1999-01-18
US	52771226	R1HS1K4PRSIUQJ	0813918332	121669239	Thomas Jefferson and Sally Hemings: An American Controversy	Books	5	10	20	N	N	A masterpiece of historical detective-work and analysis.	I was one of those historians who had doubted the Thomas Jefferson-Sally Hemings liaison.  Reading Annette Gordon-Reed's superb book turned me around completely.  Not only has she done superb historical detective-work  in the world of slavery in Virginia in the early national period, and more  particularly in the world of Sally Hemings and her descendants and of  Thomas Jefferson -- she also presents a model analysis and critique of the  unexamined assumptions that historians have brought to this thorny problem  for generations.  Her evidence is formidable; her presentation is elegant  and convincing; her tone is calm and reasonable; her writing is lucid and  accessible.  It was painful to learn how many of the historians whom many  of my colleagues and I had accepted uncritically (Dumas Malone, Merrill  Peterson, and especially Douglass Adair) had allowed their assumptions to  skew their judgment, distort their perceptions and readings of evidence,  and turn them into special pleaders for a position that this fine book now  shows to be, at best, open to serious challenge.<br />The recent DNA test  results published in NATURE magazine have been taken by many historians as  conclusive evidence of the Jefferson-Hemings liaison.  My only disagreement  with this position is that it slights this fine book; anyone who reads  THOMAS JEFFERSON AND SALLY HEMINGS: AN AMERICAN CONTROVERSY will realize  that the DNA test results reported by NATURE are only the icing on the  cake, and that we knew or should have known that the Jefferson-Hemings  liaison was historical fact and not historical fiction long before  now.<br />Annette Gordon-Reed's book deserves a wide audience and close,  attentive, respectful reading; it is a masterpiece.<br />-- Richard B.  Bernstein, Adjunct Professor of Law, New York Law School (and, I admit, a  colleague and friend of Annette Gordon-Reed, who does NOT teach at New York  University Law School)	1998-11-13
US	52771226	REY8BVNF4O04X	0881842958	544800471	The Cabala	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A wistful, magical first novel by an underrated writer.	Lots of people took great pleasure in lambasting Thornton Wilder's  inclusion on the Modern Library list of the 100 greatest novels of the  twentieth century.  Setting aside that publicity stunt, Wilder is an  underrated writer, whose finest books, such as THE BRIDGE OF SAN LUIS REY  and the wonderful THEOPHILUS NORTH, mingle shrewd observation, fine and  wistful writing, and profound insight into the human heart.<br />THE CABALA  was Wilder's first novel, written when he was in his late twenties and  appearing the year before his most famous book THE BRIDGE OF SAN LUIS REY.   It chronicles a young man's sojourn in Rome and his involvement with a  mysterious group of  eccentric and charming individuals who are known as  the Cabala.  In many ways, THE CABALA presages THEOPHILUS NORTH -- in its  sharply observed yet movingly nostalgic depiction of its setting (Rome), in  its affectionate yet shrewd portraits of the men and women who make up the  Cabala, and in its deft storytelling of each of the linked incidents into  which Wilder's narrator finds himself drawn as he gets to know the Cabala  more and more intimately.  The indescribable last chapter presages magic  realism -- and, for my money, is better than any of the more ponderous and  better-known recent examples of the genre.<br />In sum, this early novel by a  fine yet under-appreciated writer is well worth reading and may well (and  should) spur the reader to explore more of Wilder's works.	1998-10-16
US	52771226	RTPK7WKEYTS5H	0865971935	111348982	Fame and the Founding Fathers	Books	5	25	27	N	N	A buried classic's welcome return	Douglass G. Adair (1913-1968) revolutionized the study of American history  in the Revolutionary and early national periods -- and yet, except for  those who worked with him and learned from his writings, nobody has heard  of him.  Adair is one of the great tragic figures in the history of  American history.  He became the editor of the WILLIAM AND MARY QUARTERLY  and transformed that musty journal into the leading scholarly journal on  American history and culture to 1815.  His essays, mostly published there  but also in other widely scattered venues, turned the writing of history of  the Founding upside down.  Not for Adair was stale economic determinism or  patriotic hero-worship.  Rather, Adair took ideas seriously, and took  seriously the idea that human beings shape and are shaped by the ideas that  capture their imaginations and move them to action.<br />Adair took his own  life in 1968, after years of struggle with academic culture's emphasis on  writing books.  His friends and colleagues gathered his best essays and  published them in FAME AND THE FOUNDING FATHERS as a memorial to him.<br />The  essays collected in this volume are dazzling explorations in the history of  ideas and politics. In the now-classic &quot;The Authorship of the Disputed  FEDERALIST PAPERS&quot;, Adair not only solved a historical puzzle that had  perplexed generations of Americans -- he provided a model of deft  historical detective work.  Similarly, his two essays on THE FEDERALIST No.  10 -- &quot;The Tenth FEDERALIST Revisited&quot; and &quot;'That Politics  May Be Reduced to a Science:'  Hume, Madison, and the Tenth  FEDERALIST&quot; -- are indispensable to anyone who would understand the  FEDERALIST or James Madison.  Among the other important essays collected  here are Adair's superb brief biography of Madison, his trio of essays  exploring knotty puzzles in the life and career of Alexander Hamilton, and  his still-controversial essay on Thomas Jefferson and Sally Hemings --  though this last essay has been exploded by the work of Annette Gordon-Reed  in her pathbreaking THOMAS JEFFERSON AND SALLY HEMINGS: AN AMERICAN  CONTROVERSY (University Press of Virginia, 1997).<br />In 1974, when this book  first appeared, I had just completed my freshman year of college.  I read  it eagerly, and it opened my eyes to the value of writing about difficult  historical issues in an elegant and accessible way.  Anyone who is  interested in American history between the 1770s and the 1830s must read  this fine book.  Anyone who cares about writing about history for a wide  general audience will find this book to be a treasured model.<br />I owe  Douglass Adair, who died when I was 12, a debt that I can never repay.  I  hope that others will read this book and contract similar debts.<br />--  Richard B. Bernstein, Adjunct Professor of Law, New York Law Schoolthough this last essay has been exploded by the work of Annette Gordon-Reed  in her pathbreaking THOMAS JEFFERSON AND SALLY HEMINGS: AN AMERICAN  CONTROVERSY (University Press of Virginia, 1997).<br />In 1974, when this book  first appeared, I had just completed my freshman year of college.  I read  it eagerly, and it opened my eyes to the value of writing about difficult  historical issues in an elegant and accessible way.  Anyone who is  interested in American history between the 1770s and the 1830s must read  this fine book.  Anyone who cares about writing about history for a wide  general audience will find this book to be a treasured model.<br />I owe  Douglass Adair, who died when I was 12, a debt that I can never repay.  I  hope that others will read this book and contract similar debts.<br />--  Richard B. Bernstein, Adjunct Professor of Law, New York Law School	1998-10-12
US	52771226	R1WETMFWDJX4AJ	0874516390	397546633	With My Own Eyes: The Autobiography of an Historian (The Tauber Institute Series for the Study of European Jewry)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Deeply moving and inspiring memoir by a great historian.	Jacob Katz (1904-1998) may well be the greatest historian of Judaism and  the Jewish people of the twentieth century.  In a series of pathbreaking  studies, including TRADITION AND CRISIS, EXCLUSIVENESS AND TOLERANCE, OUT  OF THE GHETTO, and FROM PREJUDICE TO DESTRUCTION, Katz reshaped the study  of Jewish history from late medieval times through the horrors of the  mid-twentieth century.<br />It is a great shame that Katz's work, which is as  valuable in terms of historical method as it is for its specialized  content, is not better known to historians generally.  In this, his last  book (originally published in Hebrew in 1989 and translated into English in  1995), Katz reflects on his life and his development as an  historian.<br />Most of this book's twelve chapters focus on the odyssey of an  intelligent, sensitive, and modest young man who seeks a place for himself,  first within the sheltered Jewish community in Hungary where he was born;  next in the turbulent and shifting Europe in which Jews tried to chart a  course between their traditions of religious devotion and Talmudic study  and the world of secular knowledge; then in the terrifying world of the  impending Nazi domination of Germany and then of the European continent;  and finally in the struggles to build a new nation in the land of  Israel.<br />Throughout, Katz writes with modesty and quiet humor and rare  generosity.  Gradually, his life as a scholar assumes a more and more  central place in his life's story -- but Katz excels at showing the  intertwining of his intellectual life with his biography.  By the book's  close, you know that you have been in the presence of &quot;one of the rare  and master spirits of the age.&quot;<br />-- Richard B. Bernstein, Adjunct  Professor of Law, New York Law School	1998-10-09
US	52771226	R33RQ9IZ4YHEHS	0801495938	264362815	The Silence of Bartleby	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Indispensable for understanding Melville and lit-crit.	This is the best work of literary criticism I've ever read.  It's  brilliant, yet at the same time written in an amazingly lucid and modest  prose style that invites any reader, not just those experienced in literary  criticism, to take part in the continuing conversation about Herman  Melville's greatest short story and one of his greatest works of  fiction.<br />McCall dissects the various schools of literary scholarship with  singular good humor and self-deprecating wit.  His focus on &quot;Bartleby  the Scrivener:  A Story of Wall-street&quot; couldn't be better; this  seemingly clear yet deeply mysterious story has attracted the attention of  just about every different school of literary criticism, and their  ruminations on how to read a great literary work and what to seek in it,  laid from end to end, form a spectrum of approaches to literature.  Many  who are not experienced in literary criticism find this profusion of  approaches bewildering, frustrating, and even infuriating.  It is the  greatest merit of this wonderful book that McCall restores a sense of  balance and perspective to the stew of methods of reading a work of  literature.<br />Above all, he pleads, let writers speak for themselves.   Don't subjugate the work of literature you're writing about to your own  close-focus set of goals or polemical objectives.  And, if a work of  literature is mysterious and troubling, perhaps that's exactly what the  writer wants the reader to take from it.<br />McCall is a professor of  American studies at Cornell and a skilled novelist -- I wish that more  professors (and not just of American Studies) wrote with his clarity and  grace.<br />He wisely includes the text of Melville's famous short story as an  appendix for the reader.  Those who have not previously read  &quot;Bartleby&quot; would be well-advised to read that appendix FIRST, and  then read McCall's wonderful book.<br />-- Richard B. Bernstein, Adjunct  Professor of Law, New York Law School	1998-10-02
US	52771226	R1SM374NRC3H83	0205191584	241676942	The Elements of Style, Third Edition	Books	5	89	94	N	N	Indispensable for anyone who wants to write.	I bought my first copy of THE ELEMENTS OF STYLE nearly thirty years ago,  when I was 13 years old.  It cost me one dime, in a thrift shop.  That is  still the best dime I've ever spent.<br />THE ELEMENTS OF STYLE is  indispensable for anyone who wants to write.  It distills the essence of  writing clear, direct, logical prose.  I read it four times a year; in  addition, I read it again whenever I am about to begin a large writing  project.  This book has shaped every word I've ever written, and it has  taught me more than I can say about life.  That may sound weird or  idiosyncratic, but it's not -- for the principles that guide the writing of  clear, direct, logical English prose are the same principles that guide a  life of integrity and commitment.  Writing honestly and clearly is the  surest path to living honestly and clearly.<br />Buy it, read it, reread it,  live by it.  You won't be sorry.	1998-09-24
US	52771226	R2I0AJKEQH8EGM	0761110909	834942532	The Yogi Book: "I Really Didn't Say Everything I Said"	Books	5	6	6	N	N	I've yearned for a book like this for years, and here it is.	Even people who don't care for baseball love Yogi Berra and his way with  words.  For years I've hoped that someone would do a book like this one,  and here it is at last.  Not only does it collect and present the best  comments of baseball's great philosopher -- it provides background and  context for every Yogi-ism.  Those who complain that the book has big type  and lots of pictures just don't get the point.  Sometimes there's a lot in  a little book, and this is one of those books.  Highly, and delightedly,  recommended. -- Richard B. Bernstein, Adjunct Professor of Law, New York  Law School	1998-08-31
US	52771226	RF397N7YC2U7C	0940450291	748840570	Franklin: Writings (Library of America)	Books	5	80	81	N	N	The best, most comprehensive introduction to Franklin	Many of Benjamin Franklin's biographers follow up their treatments of his life and work with an edited collection of his writings, as if to concede that he is his own best presenter.  Any reader interested in Franklin should therefore set the biographies aside for a time and turn first to this superb Library of America compilation of Franklin's writings.  Spanning his life from his early humorous writings (penned at the age of 16) to letters he wrote in the last year of his life (at 84), it is the single best, because most comprehensive, introduction to Franklin.<br />Carl Van Doren ended his classic biography of Franklin by describing him as &quot;a harmonious human multitude.&quot;  The phrase has become shorthand for those who try to encompass Franklin's activities as printer, journalist, polemicist, political thinker, writer, economist, demographer, scientist (or &quot;natural philosopher&quot; in the 18th-century phrase), lobbyist, diplomat, and sage.  More recent Fra! nklin scholars, such as Esmond Wright and Robert Middlekauff, concede his complexity, but doubt the harmony holding together his various interests, activities, priorities, friendships, and hostilities; they also note that Franklin's genial exterior cloaked a massive and implacable egotism and an unsuspected capacity for strong and often bitter emotion.<br />All these facets of Franklin emerge from this superbly-edited volume.  J. A. Leo Lemay, one of the nation's leading scholars of Franklin's life and work, has produced a volume fully worthy of Franklin and the Library of America series; it will be indispensable to all future students of Benjamin Franklin, of colonial and Revolutionary America, and of the foundations of American literature, science, politics, and government. -- Richard B. Bernstein, Adjunct Professor of Law, New York Law School; Daniel M. Lyons Visiting Professor in American History, Brooklyn College/CUNY (1997-1998); Book Review Editor for Constitutional Books,!  H-LAW; and Senior Research Fellow, Council on Citizenship ! Education, Russell Sage College.	1998-08-04
US	52771226	R3GKCZABWQD240	188301123X	958021970	George Washington : Writings (Library of America)	Books	5	99	100	N	N	In this splendid book, Washington finally speaks for himself	George Washington is far more revered than known; but, as this splendid book proves, when you come to know him you feel even more admiration for him.  This installment in the indispensable LIBRARY OF AMERICA series gathers hundreds of Washington's letters, as well as his more formal public statements as Virginia legislator and revolutionary leader, Commander-in-Chief of the Continental Army, advocate of federal constitutional reform, and First President of the United States.  The formal public statements display the heavy style that Washington fell into when consciously speaking to posterity.  It is in his letters that Washington's vigorous mind, strong emotions, and sound judgment emerge most cleary -- and that portray his humanity and his nobility most clearly and accessibly.  Readers of this volume would be well-advised to read John Rhodehamel's superb chronology (appearing at the back of the book) first, and then turning to the text.  If they do this, they will have!  a sound chronological and historical basis for setting Washington's writings, public and private, in context and for seeing the critical founding decades of the American republic as he saw and experienced them.<br />-- Richard B. Bernstein, Adjunct Professor of Law, New York Law School; Daniel M. Lyons Visiting Professor in American History, Brooklyn College/CUNY; Book Review Editor for Constitutional Books, H-LAW; and Senior Research Fellow, Council on Citizenship Education, Russell Sage College	1998-07-24
US	52771226	R2LANNX4M67J4A	0517593149	53246902	Melville: A Biography	Books	5	26	30	N	N	A brilliant, sensitive life of America's finest writer.	With extraordinary skill, brilliance, and sensitivity, Laurie Robertson-Lorant gives us the one-volume life of Herman Melville we've always needed.  She ably mixes extensive research in the primary sources (including the recently discovered Gansevoort-Lansing family papers now held by The New York Public Library) with close and attentive reading of Melville's works and the contemporary reactions to them.  In addition, nearly always steering clear of the clanky jargon of modern literary criticism, she nonetheless draws on cutting-edge work in that field, in particular the insights of feminist literary criticism, to illuminate our understanding of this remarkable figure who was arguably America's finest writer.  Readers should devote special attention to Robertson-Lorant's superb appendix on Melville's sexuality, which is a model of how a modern biographer should address such controversial and frequently-trivialized issues.<br />If I have one complaint, it is that Robertson-Lorant is shaky on legal contexts, both of Melville's father-in-law, the noted Massachusets jurist Lemuel Shaw, and of the writer's final work, BILLY BUDD, SAILOR.  I wish in particular that Robertson-Lorant had used some of the cutting-edge scholarship in the field of Law &amp; Literature, in particular Richard Weisberg's fine book THE FAILURE OF THE WORD:  THE LAWYER AS PROTAGONIST IN MODERN FICTION (Yale University Press, rev. ed. 1989).  BILLY BUDD, SAILOR is a central work for this field, and arguments over Melville's intentions continue to rage on -- but they appear only fleetingly and tangentially in Robertson-Lorant's pages.<br />But these quibbles are comparatively minor.  Laurie Robertson-Lorant's biography should be *the* biography of choice for anyone interested in Herman Melville's life and work.  (It is far more accessible, nuanced, and lucidly argued than is Hershel Parker's long-awaited, mammoth two-volume life now in progress; Volume I is little better than a pile of facts heaped together.)<br />-- Richard B. Bernstein Adju! nct Professor of Law, New York Law School; Daniel M. Lyons Visiting Professor in American History, Brooklyn College/CUNY (1997-1998); Book Review Editor for Constitutional Books, H-LAW; Senior Research Fellow, Council on Citizenship Education, Russell Sage College	1998-07-02
US	52771226	R3LNLW5R372I6V	1565049683	570711304	Edgeworks: Collected Ellison: v. 5 (Edgeworks)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	With savage, brilliant wit, Harlan Ellison skewers TV.	When they first appeared in the early 1970s, THE GLASS TEAT and THE OTHER GLASS TEAT were instant underground classics.  These two books collected the speculative-fiction writer (he'll throw things at you if you call him a science-fiction writer or, God help us, a sci-fi writer) Harlan Ellison's television reviews for the LOS ANGELES FREE PRESS.  Ellison's reviews set a new standard for brilliant, savagely funny, mordant criticism of the slop poured onto us over the airwaves by those who think they know what we want to see.  In many ways, these reviews invented modern television criticism.  Unfortunately, they don't stay around long; they've now appeared three times, from three different publishers, and apparently their first publication (1970-1971) was pulled by a nervous publisher.  It's good to see them back in print.	1998-06-23
US	52771226	R3UPX7DC3R5QPE	0803298013	871158014	The Legacy of the Civil War	Books	5	80	82	N	N	A miniature classic of historical interpretation	The noted poet and novelist Robert Penn Warren wrote several brilliant book-length essays on various subjects, including JEFFERSON DAVIS GETS HIS CITIZENSHIP BACK (which originally appeared in THE NEW YORKER) and INTEGRATION, but none better than this miniature classic of historical interpretation.  In 1961, when LIFE magazine asked him for his thoughts on the centennial of the Civil War, he wrote this superb, thoughtful essay (originally subtitled &quot;A Meditation on the Centennial&quot;).  In an extraordinarily compressed discussion, Warren notes a dizzying variety of effects that the war and the policies it brought in its wake had on American society.  His two most important observations have to do with the ways that the North and the South used the war as alibis.  For the victorious North, the war was a &quot;treasury of virtue&quot; that excused generations of corruption, short-sighted public policy, and neglect of national interests; after all, we won the war and freed the slaves.  For the defeated South, the war was &quot;the great alibi&quot; that excused every failure to grapple with a region's pressing social and economic problems.  Warren never wrote better than in these eloquent pages; this book should be required reading for anyone interested in the Civil War in particular or American history in general.  Its reappearance, with a fine introduction by Howard Jones (author of MUTINY ON THE AMISTAD and other excellent histories of the Civil War era), is cause for celebration. -- Richard B. Bernstein, Adjunct Professor of Law, New York Law School, and Daniel M. Lyons Visiting Professor in American History, Brooklyn College/CUNY (1997-1998)	1998-06-09
US	52771226	RK92JP09EADG9	067976397X	659658614	Corelli's Mandolin: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A magnificent, deeply moving novel of history and humanity	CORELLI'S MANDOLIN is one of the finest historical novels I have ever read, but that praise only limits the book's power and scope.  Louis De Bernieres not only recreates the specific historical time and place of Cephallonia during the Second World War; he gives to his story and his characters the timelessness that only great literature manages to achieve.  This novel is one of the greatest indictments of war, and one of the greatest testaments to the indomitable human spirit, in literature.  It spans the full range of human emotions from joy and humor to grief and stoic endurance.  It is little short of a miracle.	1998-04-03
US	52771226	R3GS4BIYSFFDSE	0345425286	925525212	News Is a Verb: Journalism at the End of the Twentieth Century	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Eloquent, angry, provocative call for saving US newspapers	Pete Hamill is one of the best and savviest newspapermen who ever drew breath, and this book is his eloquent, angry, provocative call for saving American newspapers from themselves and the bean-counting, self-important owners and managers who have no instinctive grasp for the news business.  Hamill, former editor-in-chief of THE NEW YORK POST and THE NEW YORK DAILY NEWS, writes with energy and power, evoking the great days of the newspaper business without marinating himself or the reader in smarmy nostalgia.  Reading Hamill's cogent formula for revitalizing American newspapers as they enter the twenty-first century, you want to believe that American journalism's best days can be ahead, rather than in the past.  This book is a true instant classic and a public service of the highest order; Thomas Paine would have been proud, and Joseph Pulitzer would have been delighted. -- Richard B. Bernstein, Adjunct Professor of Law, New York Law School, and Daniel M. Lyons Visiting Professor in American History, Brooklyn College/CUNY (and I used to carry a press card).	1998-04-03
US	52771226	RS7R6O1U6M5AG	0441004768	955844518	Illegal Alien	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Adept genre-mixing, but not as good as it could have been	Robert J. Sawyer has written some of the best and most imaginative science-fiction novels of recent years, so I read ILLEGAL ALIEN almost as soon as I found out about it.  Sawyer adeptly mixes genres -- in particular, the first-contact subgenre of science-fiction and the trial subgenre of murder mystery -- and his wry and sardonic comments about the O.J. Simpson case and the problems of conducting and reporting celebrity trials are some of the best things in this book.  The whole, however, turned out to be less than the sum of its parts.  Without giving away key plot secrets, my major complaint was that we learned almost nothing of the aliens' ideas about law or their culture's legal institutions, which I had expected to hear about in a novel in which an alien is tried for murdering a human being.  Also, there is a big contradiction between the book's early assertion that the aliens do not share humans' concepts of &quot;good&quot; and &quot;bad&quot; or &quot;right&quot; and &quot;wrong&quot; and some late but vital plot developments.  In sum, even second-level Robert J. Sawyer is several cuts above the normal level of most science-fiction, but ILLEGAL ALIEN was not as good as it could have been. -- Richard B. Bernstein	1997-12-13
US	52771226	R303FTFH1AUZ5J	0871136791	11590154	Cold Mountain	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A moving exploration of a land and people devastated by war	Charles Frazier's COLD MOUNTAIN is a moving exploration of a land and a people devastated by war.  It does not sentimentalize the Civil War, or the &quot;lost cause&quot; of the South -- nor does it demonize the white Southerners whose lives and land were shattered by war.  Rather, in a quiet and nuanced prose style that will be the envy of novelists and historians alike, Charles Frazier takes us on two journeys through the landscape of the war's destruction.  Inman, the book's nominal hero, abandons a cause that seems to him lost and hollow, hoping to return home to the woman he loves (Ada Monroe) and the life he hopes to rebuild.  Ada in turn struggles to reshape her life in the wake of the death of her father and her plunge from privilege and comfort into want and self-sufficiency.  These two stories emerge quietly, sympathetically, from intertwined narratives that often take the reader's breath away with a casual aside, a finely-wrought observation, or a crystallization of thought into words.  What many readers may not expect, but what COLD MOUNTAIN so effectively presents, is the horror of the world the Civil War made -- the casual brutality and the shattered dreams, the ideals gone rancid and the struggle to survive.  Frazier brings all this to life with patience and understanding.  He does not dwell on violence, nor does he seek to shield us from it.  It is simply there, a core element of the world he writes about and the people he so skillfully brings to life.  COLD MOUNTAIN ranks with the great American historical novels, and with the greatest of the literature of the American South.	1997-12-01
