US	52782589	R2OR1I6UQ2FGIZ	0140446087	953554712	Praise of Folly (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	High praise indeed	Quoth Erasmus: \\". . . it's the sponges, pimps, robbers, murderers, peasants, morons, debtors and that sort of scum of the earth who provide the glories of war, not the philosophers and their midnight oil.\\" Need we say more?	2002-10-16
US	52782589	R1L4J2TIGZ61R6	1877727512	704671128	Twilight of the Idols: Recollections of a Lost Yugoslavia	Books	5	9	10	N	N	If only...	When first published about a decade ago, Debeljak's essay was met with harsh criticism in many of the republics of the former Yugoslavia (and not just there) as being a sappy example of `Yugo-nostalgia.' This was particularly true of Croatia and Debeljak's native Slovenia. This despite the fact that the entire first section of the book is a rather harsh condemnation of those nationalist regimes that waged the wars on Yugoslavia's ruins, and the accusations Debeljak levels at Milosevic and the Serbian nationalists who initiated the entire process (indeed, at one point he poses the question, perhaps more relevant now than when the essay was first published: \\"who still remembers Vukovar?\\"). But this is not really a lament over the country in the form that it collapsed; instead it reads more like an eloquent epitaph to the culture that once existed in Yugoslavia, and to the Yugoslavia that could have been. In this sense, he calls on all people of the former Yugoslav republics to remember the past in all its complexity, to prevent their memories from being `ethnically cleansed' as well. Despite all of the rhetoric that followed Yugoslavia's break-up about the nature of that now-defunct state, Debeljak boldly declares that he remembers a time when things did not seem so inevitable, when conflict did not seem to be the only alternative.	2002-10-16
US	52782589	RBQGMCOCHVZP0	0520207270	790377821	Oil! (California Fiction)	Books	4	146	160	N	N	Generally entertaining	Unlike Sinclair's best-known novel, \\"The Jungle,\\" with its bleak story and gloomy characters, \\"Oil!\\" is a fast-paced, lively and colorful story. Although Sinclair uses it to preach his political views, it is nevertheless a good piece of literature and an interesting historical testimony to the era in which it was written. Another striking thing is how Sinclair's descriptions of corporate manipulations tend to mirror very recent events. Interesting also is that Sinclair uses one of the oldest cliches in American literature, the coming-of-age story, as the vehicle for this epic; at the same time, there are indications that Sinclair seems to mock this manner of story-telling - from the main character's rather silly nick-name, \\"Bunny\\" to his perennial inability to make up his mind about where he wants to go with his life, i.e. he never really 'comes of age.' Other reviewers have noted Sinclair's apparently naive promotion of socialism/communism/the Bolsheviks, which is a valid criticism, although to me it seemed more a case of the author throwing out ideas to provoke readers into thinking rather than an attempt to persuade them. In this sense, his use of the family of a wealthy California oil baron as the main protagonists is quite telling: although Sinclair does take the opportunity to highlight the hypocrisy and greed of the moneyed classes, he also makes a genuine attempt to portray them as real people rather than just grotesque caricatures. I also noticed that many of his characterizations of the working class/poor are often less than flattering. Regardless, this is a really entertaining novel, probably Sinclair's best.	2002-10-16
US	52782589	R4MV7V4OK33X	0393321835	877440502	Something New Under the Sun: An Environmental History of the Twentieth-Century World (The Global Century Series)	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Well-written environmental history	McNeill's basic thesis is that in environmental terms, the 20th century has been unprecedented in human history and planetary history in general. He points out that the impact of humankind's breathtaking technological advancements in the last 100 or so years can be likened to a major cataclysm, like an asteroid hitting the planet. The book provides a wealth of background information on a number of major technical/technological developments, and how they have improved the lives of many people but also damaged or imperiled the air, water and soil that sustain all life. McNeill is hardly a Luddite or a primitivist, but he does make some reasonable calls for restraint and, perhaps, a worldwide assessment of where human economic/industrial/technological activities are taking the planet. Interesting in this vein is his consideration, toward the end of the book, of how the economic thought of the last century, with its adherence to the concept of unlimited growth, has played a key role in preventing such an assessment. As he points out, overcoming this way of thinking represents a daunting task, since these (Anglo-American) economic doctrines have assumed the status of irrefutable dogma - like any system of religious beliefs.	2002-10-16
US	52782589	R2IR5SP72E09Q6	027101802X	19372835	Gender Politics in the Western Balkans: Women and Society in Yugoslavia and the Yugoslav Successor States (Post-Communist Cultural Studies)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Much needed contribution to neglected topic	For the most part, the contributions in this collection are very informative and useful studies of various aspects of gender issues in the former Yugoslavia. If nothing else, it's refreshing to see a book that covers such a chronically under-studied topic. The first article on the `traditional' Yugoslav family by anthropologist Andrei Simic, although first published in 1983, was a good choice to head this selection of studies. His observations of some typical aspects of family relations and the gender roles therein provide a good basis for understanding other gender-related issues. Most of the other articles deal with a specific region or former Yugoslav republic (i.e. Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia, etc.) Among the best is an article by Julie Mertus on women in Kosovo. She illustrates the many problems faced by Albanian women activists, particularly the deep and sometimes self-induced repression exercised by this extremely patriarchal society. The examples she cites from her fieldwork are very illuminating. Two articles by Gordana Crnkovic are particularly interesting, and too short in my opinion. Both deal with literature as this pertains to gender: the first covers mainly Serbian and Croatian women authors, while the second deals with the way women are portrayed in literature. The afterward by Branka Maga is also helpful in that it ties together some of the common themes.	2002-10-16
US	52782589	R3KGR1P2RIKUDM	B00000IHBE	885326684	Fresh Fruit For Rotting Vegetables	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Seminal	I know it's kind of politically (economically) incorrect to buy a lot of the Kennedys' CDs now because East Bay Ray sold out and has exclusive rights to the proceeds, but after re-listening to `Fresh Fruit' repeatedly over the past few weeks, I have to admit - that SOB's outstanding guitar work back then really provided a perfect backbone for Jello's vocals and lyrics. As the band's first major release, \\"Fresh Fruit for Rotting Vegetables\\" is the Dead Kennedys best in my opinion, and also arguably one of the best punk albums ever. The extra tracks on this release are fun, too.	2002-10-16
US	52782589	R2LJ5M3472TWKD	1589821122	291436296	Father's Touch	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Courageous	The combination of D'Haene's disarming candor and skill as a writer make what is otherwise shocking and gut-wrenching subject matter very readable. His memoir most often reads like a very good work of fiction - unfortunately, it's not fiction. By recounting a part of his life story here, D'Haene shows once more proves that old adage that truth is stranger (or in this case more horrifying) than fiction. At some level, \\"Father's Touch\\" brings home the horror and repercussions of parental sexual abuse of children to all who read it. One thing I found really disturbing, although not surprising, is how the religious community to which the D'Haene family belonged, the judge who handled his mother's divorce case and others did nothing even after they learned of these horrendous crimes. It seems to reflect that society at large would often rather shove matters like this under the rug and hope they go away rather than deal with them head on. Anyway, I commend D'Haene's courage for coping as he did, for taking the actions he did and for writing this book.	2002-10-16
US	52782589	R1ZRD73GWEVTW1	0271019581	214559260	The Culture of Power in Serbia: Nationalism and the Destruction of Alternatives (Post-Communist Cultural Studies)	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Top-notch research and writing	Gordy's basic premise is that the rather unpopular, corrupt and war-mongering regime controlled by Slobodan Milosevic in Serbia during the 1990s retained its hold on power by eliminating any meaningful alternatives to itself. He provides a very detailed account of how this was done in the fields of culture, politics, the media and the economy. Since the book was written and published in 1999, when Milosevic was still in power in Serbia, the basic question posed by the study, i.e. how does he manage to stay in power, should be replaced with how did he manage to stay in power so long? Otherwise, this is a vitally important study, as the matters Gordy covers here illuminate many aspects of political culture in Serbia during the 1990s - and help readers understand the country's current political malaise as well. Despite the many changes that have occurred since Milosevic's fall from power, the legacy of the `destruction of alternatives' he helped institute will continue to dog Serbian society for years to come (and, looking over the fence from Croatia, I have to add: just as the legacy of Franjo Tudjman still haunts and troubles Croatian society today and will continue to do so for the foreseeable future).	2002-10-16
US	52782589	RITA9OOITUPS2	0804731802	514146645	Making a Nation, Breaking a Nation: Literature and Cultural Politics in Yugoslavia (Cultural Memory in the Present)	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Falls far short	Wachtel's book represents an attempt to seek the causes for Yugoslavia's collapse over a decade ago in cultural factors. More specifically, he looks at the role literature and the fine arts (although the latter aspect receives much less attention; other forms of cultural creativity are basically ignored) played in both fomenting a common Yugoslav culture and undermining and eventually initiating the destruction of that very same culture. Along the way, Wachtel makes some valid observations and conclusions: early on, he takes issue with the `historical inevitability' argument of Yugoslavia's break-up, pointing out that a study of the culture of any nation can produce arguments for `inevitable' collapse. He cites the example of Germany, although the same applies to France, Italy, England, Spain and so on. Yet even in this initial section of the book, Wachtel's analysis is often marred by broad statements that are not sufficiently argued or backed by strong evidence. But the key flaw in this book is that it is yet another analysis based on a `master variable' theory of Yugoslavia's collapse, i.e. culture, says Wachtel, is the key determinant. (Ironically, in the introduction he criticizes other scholars for making the same mistake, lambasting those who see the country's destruction as the result of exclusively political or economic factors.) Even if this thesis has merit, Wachtel's study is certainly insufficient to prove it one way or another. First, the focus on literature is too narrow, and second, even within this literary focus, the scope of research is again too narrow - he only covers a small handful of authors, and one can also question his reasons for choosing some and ignoring others. Sorely lacking is any consideration of popular/rock music, which during at least the last two decades of Yugoslavia's existence was a crucial cultural arena with both unifying and, to a lesser extent, disintegrative features. The same can also be said about Yugoslavia's motion picture industry. Wachtel's book is therefore only interesting and useful as a rather good but limited analysis of some aspects of mainly 20th century Yugoslav literary culture.	2002-10-16
US	52782589	R33QE0JMKD5QHX	0380440571	758428577	The Dispossessed	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Repossess the future	\\"To break a promise is to deny the reality of the past; therefore it is to deny the hope of a real future.\\" -- one of the more pertinent observations made in this outstanding book, one I found myself thinking about more than any other after reading it. Otherwise \\"The Dispossessed\\" is, among other things, an exploration of utopias, political systems and the politics of utopias. As usual Le Guin wraps all of these otherwise tiresome sounding political/philosophical themes into a very engaging SF story, with outstanding characters and a generally plausible storyline. It also falls among Le Guin's many books that subtly dissect humankind's rather high opinion of itself. . .	2002-03-06
US	52782589	R1WX3V0HG3RHS2	0140053204	690446916	Travels with Charley in Search of America	Books	5	89	94	N	N	Still very fresh	It's amazing how relevant Steinbeck's observations of America are forty years after he wrote this book. In fact, much of what he says seems to apply even more now than when he first wrote it, such as when he observes: \\"the mountain of things we throw away are much greater than the things we use. In this, if in no other way, we can see the wild and wreckless exuberance of our production, and waste seems to be the index.\\" In a similar vein, he wonders, when considering the expansion of large cities, \\"why progress looks so much like destruction.\\" Steinbeck's sarcasm also comes to the surface when he notes some of the many odd habits and leisure activities of Americans, such as antique-hunting in omnipresent antique shops, which he felt were \\"bulging with authentic and attested trash from an earlier time.\\" He was also quite impressed with the country's intrepid hunters, to whom he feared his poodle Charley would look like a buck deer. After spending an evening in Maine with some migrant farms workers from Quebec, he expressed (rather vainly, in retrospect) his hope that the country would not some day be overwhelmed \\"by people not too proud or too lazy or too soft to bend to the earth and pick up the things we eat.\\" Far from being simply critical though, what comes out of this book is Steinbeck's great love for the country. His view that the \\"American identity is an exact and provable thing\\" still rings true today. \\"Travels with Charley\\" is not just classic travel literature, it is also a very readable and informative set of observations on America in the mid-20th century and beyond.	2002-03-06
US	52782589	R1LJTUHKBB33GI	0713990422	183271058	The Sub-prefect Should Have Held His Tongue, and Other Essays	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Outstanding essays	\\"I can only conclude that science has enormously extended the sphere of our responsibilities, while our consciences have remained the same size,\\" says Butler at one point, aptly summing up some of the main themes covered in this book. Butler's various essays on pre-WWII and wartime Croatia (and other parts of the former Yugoslavia) were the main reason I bought this book. In several pieces written during the 1950s, Butler provided some of the first intelligent commentary (i.e. not propaganda) on the Nazi-supported Ustasha regime in wartime Croatia and the rather dubious role of Archbishop (later Cardinal) Stepinac, Croatia's Roman Catholic primate at the time. But the essays in this book deal with a much wider array of topics, from Irish culture and nationalism, through the Holocaust to literary criticism. Butler is most intriguing and thought-provoking when he speculates on the morals (or lack thereof) of modern man. Thus, in one of the book's most powerful essays, \\"The Children of Drancy,\\" he writes about the deportation of over 4,000 Jewish children from France to the Nazi Germany (where they were sent to the gas chambers). He notes the enormity of just this one crime, which involved the collaboration of so many people (from politicians to the lowliest railroad technicians and clerks) and a highly-sophisticated, quintessentially modern and industrial division of labor, and how it has been almost completely forgotten - unike, say, Herod's slaughter of the innocents 2000 years ago.	2002-01-30
US	52782589	R2Y22ZEI8NN33U	0380791854	299110267	Lathe of Heaven	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Low-key, but incredible	This is truly one of Le Guin's best novels. A very grim story of a man whose dreams alter reality and the psychologist who manipulates his talents to improve his career and then the world itself, with mixed results to say the least. Much has been made of the socio-political points Le Guin was attempting to make with this novel, although I think such speculations on where this book, or Le Guin herself, stands on the political/ideological spectrum are rather pointless. Here Le Guin seems to be exploring a much deeper problem, i.e. the hubris of humans who think they are the masters of the earth, able to mold it as they will without consequences. On another level, \\"Lathe of Heaven\\" seems to simply be an elaboration of the old adage about being careful of what we wish for, because it just may come true.	2002-01-19
US	52782589	R2NT8FPP5RZ6U1	0312263988	259381149	Storm Riders: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	His best so far	Lesley's fourth novel, \\"Storm Riders,\\" is his best so far. This is not to take away from his previous efforts - his work just keeps getting better and better. The story of a man who tries to be an adopted father to a mentally disabled Tlingit Indian boy (his ex-wife's cousin) and then eventually fails is handled with compassion and almost brutal honesty, otherwise a standard trait of Lesley's writing style. Lesley's ability to portray the problems of the `little guy' and those living on society's peripheries (to paraphrase Ursula Le Guin's characterization of his writing) is unparalleled; an entire battalion of bleeding-heart journalists and weekend social activists couldn't do a better job if they tried.	2002-01-15
US	52782589	R15VTDM5W0CQIM	0231120540	391746388	Explaining Yugoslavia	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Good explanation	Out of the now almost countless array of books published over the last decade and meant to `explain' what happened in Yugoslavia, John Allcock's \\"Explaining Yugoslavia\\" is among the best. In fact, readers need go no farther if they're looking for a one-volume analysis of the former Yugoslavia and some of the underlying reasons for the country's violent and bloody collapse. Allcock, a sociologist, analyzes historical, cultural, political, social/societal, economic and other factors and skillfully ties them together to provide a comprehensive picture of the peoples of the former Yugoslavia and reasonable answers to the question of why their common state fell apart. Allcock essentially sees the root cause for the failure of Yugoslavia in the country's economy, but this is hardly economic reductionism - he stresses the importance of the interplay of numerous other factors. If this book is not the definitive `explanation of Yugoslavia' (something that will likely never be achieved), it is a large and important step in that direction.	2002-01-15
US	52782589	RQJS5G5GYAVK0	1842120476	839805265	Tito: The Story from Inside	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Insider�s view	It hardly needs to be said that anyone interested in studying the life and times of the famed Yugoslav dictator Tito cannot avoid reading this book. Milovan Djilas was one of Tito's most trusted deputies during the communist-led antifascist resistance during World War II, and one of Yugoslavia's most influential politicians during the immediate postwar years (considered one of the regime's chief ideologues). Even after his break with Tito in the early 1950s and general fall from grace, Djilas kept abreast of Yugoslav political events at the highest levels, as well as the personalities standing behind them. Here he offers a relatively candid and often critical view of Tito, and provides many insights into his actions and motivations. At one point in the text, Djilas also inadvertently repeats some of the rationalizations used by Tito and other Yugoslav officials for the often brutal political repression of opponents (both real and imagined), especially after the 1948 Comintern crisis. All in all, this is a very readable and illuminating insider's account of Tito and his leadership style.	2001-12-27
US	52782589	R2AGQ0JPJUI3ET	0375727620	640284327	History of the Present: Essays, Sketches, and Dispatches from Europe in the 1990s	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Largely informative	Despite its rather pretentious title, this is a very informative collection of essays on Central and Eastern Europe during the 1990s. Garton Ash has a particularly intimate knowledge of Germany, Poland and the Czech lands, both past and present. His training as a historian and his practical journalistic work in the region make him eminently qualified to write a `history' of the region's recent past. The only flaws in this book are the several chapters that deal with the former Yugoslavia, as this is an area about which the author knows less (he doesn't speak any of the local languages) and his work suffers for it. The main problem is that he only began visiting the former Yugoslav lands after 1995, and depends on secondary and second-hand sources for his knowledge of wartime events from 1990 to 1995. Thus, he lacks the first-hand experience of the local circumstances that make his observations of Germany, Poland or the former Czechoslovakia so acute. (To his credit, and in contrast to most foreign correspondents, Garton Ash does quite candidly admit that he was playing the war tourist in his trips to Bosnia.) Nevertheless, these shortcomings are compensated by other parts of the book; particularly interesting is the chapter on the Ruthenians - that typical Eastern European stateless nation. Garton Ash is also at his best when discussing the future prospects of a united Europe and the role of Germany in this new continental political order.	2001-12-27
US	52782589	R2NGI5IA6XEMGV	0871565358	723092955	Steep Trails	Books	4	8	10	N	N	The original arch-druid	Long before the late David Brower's environmental activism at the helm of the Sierra Club and after led to his designation as the `arch-druid,' John Muir was making epic journeys through the (then much more truly wild) wilderness of the U.S. western states and jotting down his observations as well as his thoughts on Nature and life in general. \\"Steep Trails\\" is a collection of pieces covering Muir's various travels through and about Northern California, Nevada, Utah, Oregon, Washington and the Grand Canyon. Writing mainly in the second half of the 19th century, Muir describes the terrain and its characteristics in simple and effective prose, but with the meticulous attention to detail and accuracy of a hard-nosed naturalist. One also cannot help but be impressed with the fact that Muir usually set off on his wilderness treks (often during the winter) with only the most meager of supplies and without the high-tech equipment and various Gore-Tex accoutrements deemed indispensible by today's rugged outdoorsmen. What comes out of Muir's writings and sets him apart from most of his contemporaries is his view that America's vast natural wealth and beauty should be appreciated in and of themselves, above and beyond their functional and economic value as natural resources to be exploited. Despite his firm belief in `progress' and `civilization' as these terms were understood in the nineteenth century (hence his often disparaging commments about the local Indians), at several points Muir showed that he understood the potential dangers of excessive economic development and industrialization.	2001-12-27
US	52782589	RQPX5IIQ7DHDG	080705450X	854958211	The politics of history	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Essays by activist historian	Zinn makes perhaps the best points in this book early on, in his first essay \\"Knowledge as a Form of Power.\\" Here he quite correctly notes that academia in America (and this is equally valid elsewhere in the world) tends to produce mountains of \\"inconsequential studies\\" which do little to add to our general knowledge or understanding, much less provide a basis for future action. What makes this statement so damning is that Zinn first wrote it over 30 years ago, and it's still applies today. Most of the essays in this book are dedicated to arguing that history and other social sciences should be more socially active, and that its practitioners should not hide behind objectivity and neutrality but rather \\"put their knowledge to work.\\" Zinn backs the latter point by noting that even in the `hard' sciences there is subjectivity, which is what formulating theories is all about. Even so, several times he warns against omission or doctoring facts to suit the needs of idealism or ideologically driven agendas - in this context, he wisely includes this truism by Mannheim: \\"while ideology is the tendency of those in power to falsify, utopianism is the tendency of those out of power to distort.\\" Zinn's views on scholarship and the philosophy of history are illuminating, and his specific essays dealing with the Ludlow Massacre during a miners' strike in Colorado in 1913, Hiroshima or the Allied bombing of the French town coastal town of Royan even after Nazi withdrawal (in which Zinn himself participated as a bombardier in U.S. warplane) provide a great deal of otherwise hard-to-find information and commentary on these events.	2001-12-14
US	52782589	R3C1WLY7CKDV14	0140152210	788401505	The World Since 1945: Second Edition (Penguin history)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Global history of Cold War era	This is essentially a history of the Cold War period, i.e. 1945 to the early 1990s. Even so, it does not focus on the U.S. and the Soviet Union, nor great power politics as such. Instead, Vadney broadens the focus and gives due consideration to the Third World which, as he notes, accounts for the vast majority of the world's population (since India and China can be placed in this category). The general emphasis is on major political events and trends, with only some attention given to economic and social factors. Nonetheless, this is still a highly useful book, as Vadney provides essential background and details on a number of events and regions not normally covered in standard \\"world history\\" or \\"Western civ\\" texts. The book's organization and uncluttered writing style also make it an outstanding reference work for this period.	2001-11-27
US	52782589	R23R1FL0O0OKGK	0517146770	346639137	The Trail of Tears	Books	5	100	103	N	N	Still instructive	Jahoda's &quot;Trail of Tears&quot; is a good companion to Dee Brown's &quot;Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee&quot; - in fact, Brown basically picks up where Jahoda leaves off both chronologically and geographically. Although hardly comprehensive (such an account of the Indian removals east of the Mississipi would require many volumes), Jahoda nonetheless provides a rather exhaustive review of the removal of the &quot;five civilized tribes&quot; as well as a number of midwestern peoples. Jahoda notes the particular senselessness of 'removing' the eastern tribes, as many had already been integrated into the lifestyle of the American settlers (some even became major plantation owners, complete with slaves) and/or became devout Christians. What comes out here is that it was not a matter of dealing with 'savages' but racism, plain and simple. Needless to say, &quot;Trail of Tears&quot; is not only an illuminating history but also a rather instructive text.	2001-11-02
US	52782589	R1L042G6ISP82R	0691019436	181355298	The Nation and Its Fragments: Colonial and Postcolonial Histories (Princeton Studies in Culture/Power/History)	Books	4	25	26	N	N	Worthwhile study	Chatterjee is a typical `postmodern' scholar, and he has a rather jargon-filled and oblique writing style. In some cases, knowledge of Indian and Bengali history, to say nothing of familiarity with contemporary Bengali society and the intricacies of the caste system, would seem to be required to truly understand certain sections of this book. Also, while Chatterjee states that his argument is meant to clarify (to some extent) the conditions of nations, nationalism and society/communities in the postcolonial states of Asia and Africa, his examination is almost exclusively restricted to Bengal in India. There is nothing wrong with this as such, since he deals with the area with which he is most familiar. However, one of his principal underlying themes is a (rather persuasive) criticism of European or `Western' scholars for mis-applying European philosophies and sociological models to non-European, postcolonial societies, and he seems to commit the same error by assuming that his Bengali example can be used to explain circumstances in the vast, diverse lands from the western shores of Africa to southeast Asia.<BR>Nevertheless, \\"The Nation and Its Fragments\\" is a very strong argument against simply assuming that nationalism, postcolonial development, industrialization and modernity itself in India (or elsewhere in the so-called `Third World') are simply following `models' already formulated in Europe/America. Chatterjee's most important point is perhaps his call for scholarship on postcolonial societies to commence from completely different fundamental assumptions, rather than trying to force upon it outside (read European) `scientific' models.	2001-10-25
US	52782589	R1ELJ8YTQHO59P	1555911277	719485926	Native American Animal Stories	Books	4	22	24	N	N	Native animal stories	This could have been a much longer book, since there is an almost endless number of Native American stories dealing with animals. Bruchac made a good selection, though, and the stories of a wide variety of North American native peoples are represented here. All of them show the importance of animals to the Native Americans in that they are central to creation myths, as well as tales of friendship and those providing numerous survival instructions. Bruchac kept the prose simple, making this book ideal for children. Also useful is the glossary at the end, and the descriptions of tribal nations which provide a great deal of useful information on the major North American peoples.	2001-10-25
US	52782589	R2ZZL51MDYJS4N	0385418868	26788304	The Power of Myth	Books	2	41	74	N	N	Downright troubling in places	Because this book has a conversational format as it consists of a series of interviews between Campbell and journalist Bill Moyers, there are points where it becomes a bit repetitive. While Campbell makes some important points about the nature of myths and mythology in all human societies, I found that he often seems to overstate the obvious. Indeed, much of what Campbell says about myths, symbols and the human unconscious has already been covered with more intelligence and clarity by psychologist Carl Jung. Campbell generally refrains from discussing modern, political mythology - even though his general argument about the socializing nature of myths would seem to demand consideration of this aspect. Moyers probably meant for these interviews to serve as a showcase for Campbell's philosophy of life and as such he was too indulgent, rarely prodding Campbell to more fully explain some of his views. Thus, we never really get much more than Campbell repeatedly telling us to \\"follow our bliss.\\" I think `Sesame Street' communicates a more sophisticated message than that. At other places, Campbell's views are genuinely disturbing. For example, he said it is \\"totally improper\\" and even \\"obscene\\" to \\"judge people in terms of civil law for performances that they rendered in time of war.\\" Moyers, once more shirking his journalistic duty, didn't press him on this matter - like asking him his opinion of the Nuremberg trials. To me Campbell's statement reads like a pseudo-philosophical justification for atrocities of all sorts. Whatever Campbell's merits as an expert on myths/mythology, he was far from being a clear-headed philosopher, and this comes out in this book.	2001-10-25
US	52782589	RHK5XM56SHZR1	1893956032	504479648	A Language Older Than Words	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Different . . .	One doesn't have to always agree with Jensen's arguments to get a lot out his book. Indeed, his calls for dismantling civilization may provoke dismay and be misconstrued by some. Even so, this is an extremely well-written book, and endlessly thought-provoking. It's free-flowing style and rather loose organization actually make it easier, rather than more difficult, to read. Jensen's use of deeply personal and often tragic experiences to illustrate some of his points and/or back is arguments, far from being pathetic, gives this book far more weight than it would otherwise have. In light of recent events, there is one disarmingly simple statement he makes - and a point that essentially underlies the entire text - which I simultaneously find particularly troubling, meaningful and significant: \\"Things don't have to be the way they are.\\"	2001-10-19
US	52782589	R1LBVTHRA8J1DP	0805066691	820817223	Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee: An Indian History of the American West	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Read this now more than ever	Over thirty years after it was first published, Dee Brown's \\"Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee\\" is still one of the best written and researched one-volume accounts of the forced removal of the western Native Americans and the conquest of their lands. Brown's prose is simple and direct, and completely lacking in unnecessary pathos, yet the message is conveyed loud and clear. This book should be compulsory reading for American high school and college students, to insure that they have no illusions about our country's past. Also interesting in the context of recent events is that Brown included a quote by Gen. George Crook, a veteran Indian fighter throughout the Great Plains and Southwest, who eventually began to perceive (albeit too little, too late) the flaws in his government's policies. With some qualifications, it could serve as an apt description of certain aspects of America's (and the world's) current political climate: \\"It is too often the case that . . . newspapers . . . disseminate all sorts of exaggerations and falsehoods about the Indians, which are copied in papers of high character and wide circulation, in other parts of the country, while the Indians' side of the case is rarely ever heard. In this way the people at large get false ideas with reference to the matter. Then when the outbreak does come public attention is turned to the Indians, their crimes and atrocities are alone condemned, while the persons who injustice has driven them to this course escape scot-free and are the loudest in their denunciations.\\"	2001-10-09
US	52782589	R1B7J31D2ZQEUJ	1840461241	105835615	Hawking and the Mind of God (Postmodern Encounters)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Much too short	The text in this little booklet is much too short, but since it is part of a series of pamphlets called Postmodern Encounters, I suppose its brevity was a requirement set down by the publisher. Basically it is an examination of why theoretical physicist Stephen Hawking has become such a widely recognized cultural icon, even though his field of research (astrophysics and cosmology) is hardly understood by most people. Coles even speculates, correctly I think, that vast majority of those who bought his best-selling Brief History of Time probably did not even bother reading it. Even though Coles never implies that Hawking is anything but a brilliant scientist and top-notch researcher, he also points out that Hawking can hardly be placed in the company of such revolutionary physicists as Galileo, Newton or Einstein  even though is how he is now perceived in the popular mind. Coles thus explores how this assignment of an almost guru-like status for Hawking came about. Along the way, Coles also provides a summary of the basic ideas underlying relativity theory and quantum physics, geared toward compleat idiots such as myself. This section actually accounts for the bulk of the text, and makes his rather brief investigation of the Hawking phenomenon all the more tantalizing. This subject matter deserves a much more detailed study  hopefully Coles is working on a more comprehensive book.	2001-09-07
US	52782589	RVM67QAE5CJ22	0345443020	981903971	Perdido Street Station (Bas-Lag)	Books	2	21	26	N	N	Hollywood's next SF blockbuster?	The imaginary city of New Crobuzon, set in some fantastic, distant future (or past?) on the planet Bas-Lag (which may or may not be Earth), is truly this novel's principal character. It is a wonderful fictional creation, and the reason for the book's incredible length is that Mieville takes his time presenting the city and its many odd neighborhoods and even odder, often grotesque residents - from humans to many species of, apparently genetically modified, humanoid amphibians, birds of prey, beetles and even cacti. Mieville's descriptions are very evocative, and his scenes of New Crobuzon are a pleasure to read. But in the end, this entire novel seems very much like one of those disappointing Hollywood-produced SF blockbusters: great scenography and mind-boggling special effects carried along by a rather simplistic, middling, sometimes even silly plot. That's not to say that the book isn't packed with suspense, and Mieville's excellent vignettes of New Crobuzon are skillfully intertwined with the overall story, which keeps readers transfixed. However, the story just doesn't live up to the scene and the atmosphere. Basically, it turns into a race to destroy some moth-like soul-eating monsters to end their reign of terror over the city. Mieville even resorts to trite philosophizing, apparently to give his story some depth. Even here, however, he fails to deal with some moral and ethical issues that I found troubling: Isaac van der Grimnebulin, one of the main protagonists ('heroes'), never really deals with his own betrayal, whether due to gross ignorance or extreme callousness, of friends, acquaintances and others; nor do Isaac and Yagharek the Garuda (a de-winged eagle-man who wants to fly again) seem to fully comprehend their accountability for getting the city into the whole mess in the first place. The low-key, very cynical ending does little to alleviate this feeling. Yagharek's moral transformation in the end is completely out of character and recalls the redemption themes beaten to death in 19th century Russian literature. Also, the entire sub-plot involving Isaac's scarab-headed lover, Lin, and the city's major crimelord seems pointless in retrospect. So despite all of its strong aspects, 'Perdido Street Station' is a pretty superficial novel - and I just can't escape the feeling that Mieville is hoping one of the major studios will pick it up for a film.	2001-08-31
US	52782589	R1FQT7QQYVAIUJ	0345409469	137607328	The Demon-Haunted World: Science as a Candle in the Dark	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Treatise for healthy skepticism	There are points in this book where it seems a bit repetitive, but since Sagan intended it for a public seriously ignorant about hard science (not to say I'm an exception) and suffering from attention deficit disorder, it's probably appropriate. Sagan was prompted to write this book by what he saw as an alarming ignorance of science and the easy acceptance of pseudoscience among most Americans - although this is not necessarily an exercise in intellectual hand-wringing about how Americans need to study science more. What is most lamentable in Sagan's view, and it's hard to disagree with him, is the lack of knowledge of the scientific method and the critical thinking which makes people both inquisitive and skeptical. It is the absence of discerning skepticism among so many peopele which is most disturbing. In this context, much of the book is devoted to a critique of the `alien abductions' which seem to have become quite commonplace over the last few decades (mainly in North America). Sagan is at his best when he pointed out the striking similarities between abduction accounts and the visitations by demons, incubi or gods of earlier eras - and this is where the book is most interesting and convincing. He took a similar stance when discussing New Age beliefs and parapsychology. Perhaps one of the main drawbacks of the book is that Sagan tried to cover too much ground, even though he tied together the principal themes quite well. His final chapter also provides an eloquent argument for the meaning of the U.S. Constitution's Bill of Rights, although this airing of his political views is perhaps what turned off a number of more conservative readers. \\"Demon-Haunted World\\" is a very informative, useful and well-argued book, and very enjoyable to read, despite certain limitations (and I'm still puzzling over his characterization on p. 108 of Gary Larson as a \\"cartoonist ... who draws in the horror genre...\\")	2001-08-09
US	52782589	R129XI3LQIWKB7	0679776117	889335570	The Global Soul: Jet Lag, Shopping Malls, and the Search for Home	Books	2	6	7	N	N	A bit tedious	A not very original contribution to the now quite vast literature on postmodern, global society written by a world-weary globetrotter. That's not to say that there no interesting observations made in Iyer's essay-like chapters, but there are no marked aspects of \\"The Global Soul\\" that make it stand out from other books of the same genre. Iyer's tendency to whine about just about every place he visits becomes almost incessant and tends to detract from any relevant criticisms or observations he's trying to get across. Even more annoying are his frequent lamentations about his own lot - basically he seems to be trying get his readers to feel sorry for him because he has a job that gives him the opportunity to travel all around the world, frequently. However, it seems that despite some of the obvious drawbacks like jetlag and occasional feelings of alienation, most people would find such a lifestyle enviable. Generally though, Iyer's book deals with a class of rootless travellers who by no means come even close to representing a significant portion of the world's population, even if the poorer, so-called Third World is excluded. He as much as acknowledges this in his chapter about Hong Kong, when he admits that he largely failed to discuss the Chinese, who make up 6 million of the city's 6.2 million people. Perhaps the best chapter is the last, in which he talks about his new-found home in a provincial Japanese city. Quite telling is his statement that he is drawn to Japan because of its &quot;ability to draw a strict line around itself - to sustain an unbending sense of within and without...&quot; In other words, Iyer, the rootless `global soul' living in a post-national world, finds the well-ordered nation-state that Japan represents appealing. Perhaps this can be taken as a metaphor for the world as a whole, since it may not be as borderless and populated by `rootless souls' as our popular culture would have us believe.	2001-08-07
US	52782589	RY0KCFNIRR3GT	0140115765	52100239	Utz	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Nice, evocative story	On the surface, this seems a bit of a pointless story about a rather dull and self-absorbed porcelain collector in Prague. The entire story is built around a brief encounter between this title character, Kasper Utz, and a British visitor to Prague in 1967. What follows is a collection of fragments of memories, conversations and conjectures. But Chatwin is a skilled writer, and readers are drawn into an intriguing little tale that says much about human nature, the compulsions of the collector and important events in the history of porcelain - it's more interesting than it might seem. Some of his descriptions of Prague during the communist years are also quite vivid, with a documentary historical value. Given the subject matter and the way it is approached, this book is always absorbing, and even quite suspenseful at times.	2001-08-03
US	52782589	RO8OQ5OCHNNV	0814731139	759867703	Nationalism	Books	2	12	12	N	N	Useful but limited theory	This little booklet is essentially a summary of the arguments and explanations that the late Ernest Gellner had already provided in his earlier, now almost classic text, &quot;Nations and Nationalism&quot; - since the latter book is still in print and its arguments are presented in much greater detail, I would recommend skipping this one (hence the low rating). Little new or original is offered here. Gellner's theory of nationalism is quite useful in that he persuasively shows how nationalism and the concept of nations are socio-political phenomena closely tied to modernity. His view that the concept of nation as broad community became a useful homogenizing tool for societies faced with industrialization and the ensuing urbanization, as well as economic growth and political centralization is generally plausible, at least in the European context. However, sometimes Gellner's sociological model seems a bit too rigid and excessively reliant on economic development and industrialization as causal factors. It fails to adequately explain why some genuinely nationalist movements emerged in some European areas long before industrialization and mass urbanization occurred (e.g. Greece, Serbia). Gellner's concept of national &quot;time zones&quot; seems based more on generalizations than a rigorous scrutiny of the various regional variants of nationalism (it's also Eurocentric, as the &quot;time zones&quot; are basically restricted to the territory of Europe). While he does address Islam and Muslim nationalism, Gellner does little to explain or even consider American nationalism (and all of its sub-variants, like Southern nationalism, Native American nationalism, etc.), or Central and South American nationalisms, to cite just a few examples. Thus, Gellner's theory is an effective tool in the study of nationalism, but it cannot by itself be considered a definitive explanation.	2001-07-23
US	52782589	RU9ISY80PW8VT	0312866097	561606943	Icehenge	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Plutonian monuments &amp; millennial life spans	\\"Icehenge\\" is a great science fiction novel at a number of levels. On the surface it is a something of a mystery, namely, who put those ice megaliths on Pluto? Robinson maintains the air of suspense right up to the book's end (and beyond, depending on how you look at it). Perhaps the most interesting aspects of \\"Icehenge\\" are some of the underlying themes Robinson incorporates into his narrative. One is the concept of virtual immortality, as the people in the novel's future world have life spans of up to a thousand years. Robinson explores some of the possible downsides to such a medical feat, such as extensive memory loss (most of the novel's older characters cannot recall their own childhood) and deep, debilitating depressions (`funks') induced by a feeling that life lacks purpose - not hard to believe if you can imagine yourself living for 500 or so years with another 500 to come. Additionally, Robinson speculates on the nature of history and acheology as forms of scholarship. Using the novel's debate about the origin of the Icehenge monument on Pluto, he notes how something as apparently straightforward as the exploration of past events can be subject to massive debates and controversy, as events and facts are reinterpreted, new evidence is found and accepted beliefs are turned on their head - with all of the ensuing social and political implications. As such, \\"Icehenge\\" is a great metaphor for our own day and age. The only criticism I would have is that writing this novel in the early 1980s, Robinson too confidently projected some of the realities of his own time into his imagined future. Thus, there is the now odd reference to the Soviet fleet and Soviet colonies on Mars. If you can get past this, \\"Icehenge\\" is a very enjoyable and intriguing book.	2001-07-20
US	52782589	R2IFY4RV075AWG	0393312860	829722086	Telling the Truth About History (Norton Paperback)	Books	4	18	21	N	N	Strong responses to criticism of history	Since this book was written in the wake of the intellectual `wars' at U.S. universities involving multiculturalism, political correctness and the subsequent backlash to these, it primarily focuses on the history profession in the United States rather than worldwide. Thus, some of the book's shortcomings in not dealing adequately with non-American or non-Western European views or concerns can be forgiven. Despite these flaws, \\"Telling the Truth About History\\" very successfully addresses the many criticisms hurled at the scholarly pursuit of history in recent decades, and the three authors' conclusions can be useful and edifying even for those historians living and working far beyond America's borders. In line with the pragmatism and practical realism the authors extol in their last several chapters, they essentially call for a middle ground between the extremes of postmodern relativism and the apparent absolutes of the Enlightenment `heroic science' model. This means not abandoning the pursuit of verity while incorporating many of criticisms and even methods of the postmodernist theorists. Truth may still be elusive as ever (to say nothing of absolute truth) but, as they say at one point, even provisional truths are better than ignorance or outright falsehoods - with a nice example from the Soviet Union during the Gorbachev years to illustrate this point. This is a very well-written and persuasive argument for history as a rigorous and expansive (and mind-expanding) academic discipline. Along the way, the authors also provide a very informative overview of historiography from the Enlightenment era to the present, albeit in a largely American context.	2001-07-17
US	52782589	R2XB1BBYPUXFC4	0684844419	9851575	The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order	Books	1	61	115	N	N	Paradigm shift, or a lot of hot air?	Huntington made a sincere attempt to be at the cutting edge in defining the shape of international politics in the wake of the cold war, and perhaps hoped to create a self-fulfilling prophesy. But the world's just not that simple. Despite this book's length, and the amount of effort Huntington invested in arguing his &quot;clash of civilizations&quot; thesis here and in the pages of Foreign Affairs, it is nonetheless based on a number of generalizations and conclusions that do not stand up to more detailed scrutiny. For example, the renewed tensions between the U.S. and Russia probably have less to do with Russia's &quot;Orthodox Slav&quot; civilizational sphere than the more recent history of hostility between the former USSR and the West, as well as the fact that many Russians today feel international financial institutions (propped up by US, EU or Japanese capital) plundered the Russian economy. His characterization of the Yugoslav wars as a conflict on a civilizational &quot;faultline&quot; is almost laughable (even though it was quite popular for a time among those former Yugoslavs located on the 'right' side, i.e. in the West, of Huntington's civilization border). Additionally, although Huntington attempts to downplay it, the underlying theme of &quot;Clash of Civilizations&quot; seems to be that the West (read America) is better than the rest. Therefore, the book often seems more like a call to arms than a constructive analysis of potential international political problems and how to overcome them.	2001-07-13
US	52782589	R14TR1H64PY9AG	0226071510	920978401	On History	Books	3	20	23	N	N	Brief and unsatisfying view of a great historian�s thoughts	Fernand Braudel was/is largely ignored in the English-speaking world, especially the U.S., even though throughout Europe he is considered one of the 20th century's greatest historians. Therefore, it's unfortunate that the collection of articles in &quot;On History&quot; does not provide a more clear introduction to his thought. The articles contained in this book do provide a good view into some of Braudel's main life-long arguments about how historiography should be approached, such as his insistence on the consideration of the long time span (longue duree) or his calls for the unification of all social science methods in the study of history. This is particularly true of articles such as &quot;History and the Social Sciences: The Longue Duree&quot; or the excellent concluding article &quot;The History of Civilizations: The Past Explains the Present.&quot; However, since most of the contributions here are often book reviews or polemical essays, the lack of context can often be confusing if, like me, you haven't read the books he is discussing or are unfamiliar with the works of the scholars with whom he is engaged in polemics (usually involving other French, and sometimes German scholars). Although such articles do contain important fragments of Braudel's views on the role of the social sciences and history as a science, they are nonetheless a bit dry and even uninteresting. Taken as a whole, then, &quot;On History&quot; is a somewhat unsatisfying book, even though it should still be required reading for students of history and other social sciences.	2001-07-12
US	52782589	RSTBR62LDV9DM	0451527348	569503661	The Brothers Karamazov (Signet Classics)	Books	3	29	36	N	N	Slightly over the top	There's really no point in arguing that this anything but a really great novel. It is an epic work, with an almost epic length as well; an the exploration of the relations between three (actually four, if the illegitimate house-servant is included) brothers, the sons of a selfish, greedy, conniving, morally and physically repugnant father. In many ways, \\"Brothers Karamazov\\" can probably be viewed as a reflection of Russian intellectual/spiritual culture in the 19th century, and perhaps even beyond. Like his other works, this book also contains Dostoevsky's literary musings on the state of Russian society as he saw it. Even so, this is also weighty book: in a fashion similar to Tolstoy, Dostoevsky was quite obsessed with the concept of personal redemption, the moral catharsis (or `moral bath' as Tolstoy called it in \\"War &amp; Peace\\"), atonement for sins, etc. and this, together with his religious mysticism (and the accompanying good vs. evil symbolism), can become quite tiresome at times. Dostoevsky was a very conservative Christian tormented by his own vices and a virulent opponent of Western European Enlightenment ideals (he viewed them as a threat to Russian culture and the Russian soul), and this is often reflected in \\"Brothers Karamazov.\\" Personally, I think the best parts of the book are when Dostoevsky explores the mindsets of his various characters, creating a very psychologically tense atmosphere. Also, his portrayals of the interactions and conflicts between his various characters is superb. In this sense, it is similar to \\"Crime and Punishment,\\" which is a better book - simply because it tends to focus more on one major theme. Thus, after reading \\"Crime and Punishment\\" one can easily be left with the impression that the \\"Brothers Karamazov\\" is a slight case of overkill in some aspects. However, on its own it is nonetheless a great book and definitely worth reading - although due consideration should be given to its historical context, meaning the place and time in which it was written (tsarist Russia in the 19th century).	2001-07-10
US	52782589	R33KV3YUZ456Q3	0773522166	54277886	Milosevic and Markovic : A Lust for Power	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The inside story	If you want some insight into the psyche of that pugnacious and obnoxious defendent at the International Criminal Tribunal for Yugoslavia, this is the book to read. Slavoljub Djukic, a respected Serbian journalist, has been following the career of Slobodan Milosevic (as well as his wife Mirjana Markovic) since the rise of this dull communist functionary to national prominence in the late 1980s. Djukic researched his subject meticulously, and made good use of his many contacts in Serbian/Yugoslav political and media circles, to say nothing of his keen powers of observation over the last 10+ years. There are vivid descriptions of the personalities of both Milosevic and Markovic, whose influence on her husband was/is legendary. Djukic also provides a wealth of information on many other important figures in Serbian politics over the course of the last decade, from Milosevic's many accomplices and yes-men to opposition leaders. Another valuable, but more indirect, aspect of this book is that it provides some insight into the views of moderate Serb nationalists (like Djukic) who greatly opposed Milosevic's regime. This is essential reading for a better understanding of Serbian politics and recent Serbian history - although I suspect a new, updated edition is in the works given Milosevic's imprisonment and subsequent, very recent extradition to the Hague.	2001-07-04
US	52782589	R3758MQX3O15X8	0312161255	70104525	A History of Slovakia: The Struggle for Survival	Books	2	36	45	N	N	National(ist) history	This is a relatively easy-to-read book, as Kirschbaum largely avoids the oblique and dry writing style that characterizes so much of contemporary historiography. \\"A History of Slovakia\\" provides a something of a good summary of Slovak history (from a decidedly Slovak point of view), with reference to the major historical events and personalities considered important by the Slovaks. But that's about as far as it goes. Kirschbaum is a political scientist, not a historian - this means that he depends almost exclusively on the works of other mainly Slovak historians, with little critical analysis of primary sources. The latter is particularly true of everything preceding the 20th century. Therefore, in the chapters dealing with the Middle Ages and the Great Moravian state, Kirschbaum very uncritically and rather naively states that a \\"Slovak national consciousness\\" had already developed by the 10th century. Most historians, sociologists, etc. tend to agree that it's generally questionable to speak of anything resembling the modern notion of national consciousness before the late 18th century. This sets the tone for the entire book, as Kirschbaum views Slovak history as having a theme, i.e. the Slovak nation's \\"struggle for survival\\" (the book's subtitle) and everything is viewed through this prism. This is an almost exclusively political history, and a rather middling one at that. When dealing with the last 70 or so years of Slovak history, when the country was a part of Czechoslovakia, Kirschbaum dwells on Slovakia's inferior political (and economic) position and the (often exaggerated) hegemony exercised by the central government in Prague. Also a bit disturbing is his treatment of the independent Slovak state that existed from 1939 to 1944 as an Axis ally. Kirschbaum does try to provide honest treatment of the persecution and deportation of the Slovak Jews, but at the same time he tries to downplay the responsibility of the Slovak regime, especially its president Jozef Tiso, in this tragedy (perhaps not much more could be expected from a Slovak emigre scholar, whose father was a low-level official in that same Slovak state). When dealing with the post-WW2 period, much emphasis is placed on some of the major political struggles of the period and the general lack of democracy, but Kirschbaum only touches on the importance of economic developments during this period - even though he does mention at one point that the Slovaks were generally less inclined than the Czechs to discard elements of the command economy because the communist period was one of unprecedented economic growth for Slovakia. Economic developments as well as social and even cultural issues are only touched upon here, even though further exploration of these areas would probably help explain many aspects of Slovak history more clearly than Kirschbaum's \\"politics only\\" approach.	2001-06-29
US	52782589	R3GLQZW87NAVZI	0394800206	297290871	Go, Dog Go (I Can Read It All By Myself, Beginner Books)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Get up and go	...The book is simply a metaphor for life, as we see dogs running, playing, relaxing, spear-fishing, diving, driving like mad (hmmm, a none-too-subtle early 1960s promotion of America&#8217;s car culture &#8211; or perhaps criticism thereof?), but in the end, enjoying themselves and experiencing life to the fullest, as in the final big, dog party on the treetop. This is Eastman&#8217;s exhortation for us to get off the couch, go out and suck the marrow out of life. Of course, this is not a manifesto for unbridled self-fulfillment at the expense of others, as seen in the &#8220;bird-crossing&#8221; episode, i.e. don&#8217;t step on anyone&#8217;s toes. Also, the hat interludes show that honesty and sincerity are always the best policies in interpersonal relationships. Very nice lessons for life presented in a simple format with gripping illustrations.	2001-06-26
US	52782589	R2RZWOM4G2G0MM	0684827077	787010434	Yellow Woman and a Beauty of the Spirit	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Insightful	The quality varies in this collection of essays, newspaper/magazine commentaries and other textual fragments. Also, because they often touch on similar topics, the book is a bit repetitive at places - especially in the case of \\"Fences Against Freedom\\" and \\"The Border Patrol State,\\" which contain a number of identical passages. Even so, it is in these two pieces in particular that Silko provides some of her sharpest insights and most damning criticism of official U.S. policy toward Mexico and toward its own citizens living in the Southwest. Also interesting are Silko's observations on the concepts of collective memory and consciousness contained in the complex system of oral narratives among her own Laguna Pueblo nation. Although none of the contributions in this book are in-depth studies, taken together they all offer a great deal of food for thought.	2001-06-21
US	52782589	R2NKQMBFJPVG6Q	0345383044	618631054	Jihad vs. McWorld: Terrorism's Challenge to Democracy	Books	3	37	41	N	N	Alarmist but relevant	This is something of an alarmist book in many ways, but it is nonetheless valuable, not least because five years after it was first published many of the author's arguments still stand. Barber can probably be additionally criticized for employing two catchy but overly simplified buzzwords to describe the complex problems surrounding globalization and the reaction to it. Also, even though he by no means exclusively or even primarily singles out Islamic fundamentalism as a peril to the world order, just his use of the term `Jihad' as a metaphor for the new, anti-modern nationalisms and religious intolerance seen worldwide nevertheless indicates a measure of Orientalism. Most of the shortcomings derive from that fact that the author is a political scientist who specializes in issues of democracy and civil society rather than fractious nationalism and global economics - the two main topics of the book. Thus, in his discussion of the post-communist states of Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union, he often resorts to the now tired and superficial platitudes of `tribalism' or `ancient hatreds' to explain the rise of recent ugly incarnations of intolerant nationalism in this region (he even goes so far as to echo the mass media's favorite `Balkans expert' Robert Kaplan by citing Dracula-writer Bram Stoker in a description of modern Romania). Barber makes the additional mistake of assuming that the nationalist movements are driven by simplistic ideologies aimed solely at tearing apart existing nation-states; even if this is often the end result, most if not all of these movements claim as their objective the overthrow of foreign tyranny as they see it and the creation of some form of popular democracy. Even so, Barber correctly points out the danger of new or renewed nationalisms and divisive calls for self-determination (a very loaded and ambiguous concept), a danger that's still very prevalent in international politics. Barber is best when he points out that free markets donot necessarily mean democracy, in contrast to free market gurus, Cato Institute libertarians and Jeffrey Sachs, the chief proponent of `shock therapy' in transitional economies. He offers the examples of market economics failures in Russia and the former East Germany as damning evidence to support his argument. \\"Jihad vs. McWorld\\" has a number of flaws, but the author's arguments are coherent and it is an often useful cautionary text.	2001-06-20
US	52782589	RP8Z10PX26OTH	0816616302	887609384	The Trickster of Liberty: Tribal Heirs to a Wild Baronage (Emergent Literatures)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Very good, if unusual	This is a rather odd novel, broken down into a series of stories, vignettes and (mis)adventures involving various members of the Browne family, `mixedbloods' from an Indian reservation in northern Minnesota. As the title suggests, Vizenor is deeply interested in trickster themes, here borrowed from Native American and (to a lesser extent) Chinese oral traditions. Also, the concept of mixedbloods is the overriding leitmotiv of the entire book - often symobolized by mongrels. The style varies, and this is a very postmodern literary experience, but that shouldn't stop anyone from reading it. Generally this is a rewarding book: the narrative, if difficult to follow at times, is often humerous, yet behind this light-hearted veneer there is quite a bit of scathing commentary.	2001-06-18
US	52782589	R2C99XEN11X952	0813385423	551129805	The Croat Question: Partisan Politics In The Formation Of The Yugoslav Socialist State	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Informative study of the Croat question	Irvine's basic thesis in this book is that the issue of Croatian statehood and Croatia's position in the former Yugoslavia (in both its pre-WW2 royalist and post-WW2 socialist incarnations) were crucial factors in that country's political development. During the 1918-1941 period, Serb-Croat relations were often the main preoccupation of most national-level politicians, and even the (then) marginal Yugoslav Communist Party spent an inordinate amount of time deliberating on the `national question,' primarily as it related to tensions between the Serbs and Croats. Irvine focuses on the World War II period, and particularly the problems faced by the Communist Partisans in organizing resistance and administering liberated territories in Croatia. As such, this is one of the few books in any language that contains some balanced, in-depth discussion of Croat Communist leader Andrija Hebrang and the territorial antifascist liberation council in Croatia (known by its Croatian acronym ZAVNOH). Irvine correctly points out that ZAVNOH's legacy as a provisional government in Croatia during the war would be important for later political events in Yugoslavia, particularly as the country became increasingly federalized (indeed, even the preamble to the current Croatian constitution refers to ZAVNOH as an important precedent in Croatian state-building). Generally this is a very important, and readable, contribution to the study of the national question in Croatia and Yugoslavia.	2001-06-15
US	52782589	RQT2JF9ERMMFX	0520225082	533353071	Shoveling Fuel for a Runaway Train: Errant Economists, Shameful Spenders, and a Plan to Stop Them All	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Read this for �the grandkids�	Czech, a wildlife biologist who later did post-graduate work in economics, provides an interesting analysis and critique of the concept of economic growth in the U.S. He challenges the notion that economic growth can continue unabated, as all resources, however abundant at one point, are finite, and all economic activity, down to the most tertiary of service sectors, depends to some extent on production (use, consumption, processing of natural resources). He also quite plausibly refutes an argument often made by economists who support the growth theory that lower prices of raw materials or resources bascially mean an abundance thereof (often it simply means that extraction or labor costs have gone down). Like any good ecologist, he also stresses that market costs of a given economic activity rarely reflect the real cost to things like the potable water supply, air quality, etc. Czech also introduces some interesting new terms to environmental economic parlance, such as economic bloating as a substitute for economic growth, or `liquidating class' to refer to that section of the population that consumes conspicuously and needlessly. Czech calls for a transition to a zero-growth or steady-state economy (hardly a new concept) which does not entail dismantling or even radically changing the current capitalist system. The main problem is that this requires a major attitude change, nothing short of a revolution, in the way people think about the economy, growth and the future (if they do at all). While some of the conclusions about how this can be achieved are questionable, this is generally a very thought-provoking book. Czech does a good job of blending economic theory with his knowledge of the natural sciences, and making it all quite readable and understandable. If you can get past his constant use of the rather annoying rhetorical device about \\"the grandkids,\\" this is a very worthwhile read.	2001-06-11
US	52782589	RRV9K3AQC7IGK	0674166981	466700477	The Contested Country: Yugoslav Unity and Communist Revolution, 1919-1953 (Russian Research Center Studies, 85)	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Exploration of Yugoslav idea	This book represents an attempt to explore the history of the idea of Yugoslav unity and Yugoslavism as a national orientation. The author primarily examines the period between 1919, when Yugoslavia was first constituted as a country, to the early 1950s, the immediate post-WW2 period, when Yugoslavia was re-established as a socialist federation. Had Djilas actually concentrated on this period and its political and ideological developments, this would have been a much more focused and interesting book. Instead, however, Djilas often goes back to the 19th century, but his forays into this crucial period of ideological ferment are often superficial and his interpretations of certain (mainly Croatian) political movements are also sometimes questionable. When he does cover 20th century developments, such as the interwar years, he concentrates mainly on the Yugoslav communists, who were indeed the only consistently pan-Yugoslav political party at the time. However, this neglects other attempts at all-Yugoslav political organization, to say nothing of literary or cultural developments. Djilas offers little that's new in his consideration of the Yugoslav Communist Party's standpoints on the national question, a topic otherwise beaten to death by postwar Yugoslav Marxist scholars as well as non-Yugoslav scholars (most notably Paul Shoup in his still authoritative \\"Communism and the Yugoslav National Question\\"). The strongest and most interesting chapters in the book are those that deal with WW2 events in Yugoslavia, with a focus on the Ustasha terror (even though his exploration of the ideological roots of this Croatian quasi-fascist movement leaves much to be desired) and the political problems faced by the Yugoslav government-in-exile in London. The last chapter, which deals with the various attempts by the postwar communist government to forge a supranational Yugoslav patriotism (if not actual national identity) is also quite useful and enlightening.	2001-06-08
US	52782589	R4YEMX1DZRC2B	0472087568	186736733	Blueprints for a House Divided: The Constitutional Logic of the Yugoslav Conflicts	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Good analysis of constitutional nationalism	\\"Blueprints\\" is an extensive analysis of a largely overlooked and insufficiently studied aspect of Yugoslavia's break-up: the actual changes made to the legal order of the separate republics and the federation as a whole, and their consequences. One of the most important initial points made by Hayden is that the Yugoslav Constitution of 1974, which was effective until the country's demise, established a very complicated, decentralized and hard-to-govern federation. The ambiguities contained in many of this constitution's provisions facilitated later moves by various federal units (the republics) to justify as constitutonal their moves for greater sovereignty at the federation's expense. Hayden's consideration of the various constitutional structures established in the various republics after Yugoslavia's break-up forms the heart of this book. He argues that countries like Slovenia, Croatia, etc. can be characterized as exhibiting `constitutional nationalism,' since the predominance in the state of one ethnic nation is embedded in the very constitutional and legal order. Also interesting is his sharp critique of the constitutional fiction in place in Bosnia-Herzegovina and its `entities.' Perhaps the book's main weakness is that it fails to sufficiently emphasize that the constitutional disputes occurring in Yugoslavia just before the country's break-up were not occurring in a political vacuum; Hayden's argument seems to be that the Slovenes bear most of the initial responsibility for Yugoslavia's collapse because of the amendments to their republic constitution amounted to a unilateral derogation of the federal constitution. This fails to take into account Serbia's less than constitutional abrogation of autonomy in its provinces of Vojvodina and Kosovo, and even the federal republic of Montenegro. In the book's preface and introduction, Hayden attempts - rather unconvincingly - to explain away his lack of focus on Serbia, but this remains the primary weakness in hisoverall argument. Nevertheless, this is still a very important contribution to understanding Yugoslav and post-Yugoslav political and legal problems.	2001-06-06
US	52782589	R3HI1HFPQ3YO7U	0745316891	650722060	Bosnia: Faking Democracy After Dayton	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Guide to post-Dayton Bosnia	Chandler's book is an outstanding analysis and critique of the political/administrative system set up in Bosnia-Herzegovina after the signing of the Dayton Accords in late 1995. There is a very useful breakdown of the (too numerous) power structures at work in the country, from the `local entity' governments of the Muslim-Croat Federation and the Republika Srpska to the astoundingly confusing layers of international administrative bodies and organizations. The rather obvious result is that little gets accomplished with all of these parallel governing institutions in place. Chandler's central argument is that the deep involvement of the international powers in Bosnia through the Office of the High Representative, NATO, the OSCE and other bodies is actually making matters worse, rather than laying down the foundations for peaceful coexistence and Bosnian self-government. In this vein, for these international institutions the process of \\"democratization\\" has become an end to itself rather than the ideal objective of establishing a functioning democracy that would require no international tutelage. Chandler also correctly points out that the Dayton Accords, although declaratively committed to a multiethnic, unified Bosnian state, have in fact solidified the country's division into ethnically-based units. However, the book is less persuasive where it implies that a major withdrawal of international troops would not necessarily mean a resumption of hostilities. Indeed, Chandler focuses very little attention to the mutual fear, mistrust and hatred which escalated in the early 1990s and led to the war in the first place. Nonetheless, this is a very useful, and damning, overview of an international experiment in peace-making and state-building - a must-read for anyone interested in Bosnia's future.	2001-06-01
US	52782589	R2IPVDFMHL15S4	0394705122	784873233	The Historian's Craft: Reflections on the Nature and Uses of History and the Techniques and Methods of Those Who Write It.	Books	5	38	39	N	N	History explained, briefly and eloquently	Any book that ends with an ellipsis is frustrating, but this little gem by Marc Bloch, one of the 20th century's great historians before his tragic death at the hands of the Nazis in 1944, is a wonderful explanation of history as a social science and scholarly pursuit. Even in its unfinished form, \\"The Historian's Craft\\" provides useful working definitions of history as an academic subject, and some of the general guidelines that should be adhered to by historians. Rather than being a dry, jargon-filled text, the writing style here is very readable and engaging - thus, even though professional historians or history students would be the most interested in its content, it can be read and enjoyed by non-historians (for whom I believe Bloch intended it to a certain extent). This book should definitely top the reading list of any college student even thinking of majoring in history.	2001-05-31
US	52782589	R1DJPKOZYXH2PW	0312164475	84482290	Independent Slovenia: Origins, Movements, Prospects	Books	3	16	16	N	N	Relatively good introduction to Slovenia	Since there are so few books in the English language that deal with Slovenia at all, \\"Independent Slovenia\\" is a relatively solid introduction to the country and its more recent history, politics and economics. Most of the book's contributions are written by Slovene scholars (historians, sociologists, economists, etc.), so readers are given an insight into contemporary Slovenian perspectives. Even though a book of this type compels the authors to brevity, the first three chapters dealing with Slovenia's more recent as well as earlier history were still a little too brief for my tastes; much is left unsaid. Another problem is that several of the contributions are written in an extremely academic and dry style, making them a chore to read - this is particularly true of the chapter on trade unions (by Tonci Kuzmanic) and, surprisingly, the punk scene during the 1980s (by Gregor Tomc). These pieces, as well as chapters on women's issues and the economy, also deal too much with more theoretical aspects, with only scant attention given to how these movements and problems were reflected on Slovenian society in general. For example, the chapter on punk would have been much more interesting if the author included more extensive descriptions and analyses of the more popular bands - as it is, he mentions the names of one or two bands and leaves it at that. This indicates another major problem with many of the book's contributions: they tend to assume some prior knowledge of Slovenia. The editors should have also insisted on chapters that dealt specifically with the magazine Mladina, which was the sounding board for political change in Slovenia in the late 1980s (during the so-called `Slovenian Spring'), and with President Milan Kucan, who very ably presided over Slovenia's transition from Yugoslav federal republic to independent statehood. Mladina's role is only touched upon in a few articles, while Kucan is only mentioned twice - both times in an otherwise very interesting chapter by former (and now once more current) Foreign Minister Dimitrij Rupel on the political events surrounding Slovenia's push for independence. In hindsight, the chapters dealing with various aspects of Slovenia's economy in the post-independence period seem overly pessimistic, although they provide a strong analysis of the complex structural problems faced by all the post-socialist countries of Europe.	2001-05-28
US	52782589	RIW1IWJQRK0AI	0786703326	644919311	Tito and the Rise and Fall of Yugoslavia	Books	1	43	56	N	N	Rather pointless	This book fails both as a history or analysis of Yugoslav politics or as a critical biography of Tito. The first few chapters, which contain an overly compressed \\"historical\\" review of the South Slavs from the Middle Ages to the twentieth century, contain factual, spelling and interpretative errors so obtrusive and atrocious that they are almost laughable. For example, West claims that the leader of the 1573 Croat peasant revolt was \\"Donja Stubica\\" - that was actually the name of the village in which it started. He claims that in 1871 the Croat revolutionary Eugen Kvaternik led an \\"armed assault on the Serbs,\\" when in fact Kvaternik launched a foolishly bold uprising against the Habsburg Monarchy while many of his fellow rebels were themselves Serbs. He persistently misspells the surname of the great Serbian linguist and writer Vuk Karadzic as `Karadjic' - and there are literally dozens of similar mistakes that riddle the entire text. West basically argues that the problems in Yugoslavia are directly tied to historical events and religious schisms that occurred during the Middle Ages, and reduces the wars which ensued after Yugoslavia's collapse to religious conflicts. He also insists that there are no national nor even ethnic differences between the Serbs, Croats or Bosnian Muslims; rather, he says they are all the same ethnic group with three different religions, thus demonstrating his glaring ignorance of the differences between `nation' and `ethnicity,' among other things. He focuses extensive attention and invective, perhaps rightfully, to the WW2 Croatian Ustasha regime and the often scurrilous role of the Croatian Catholic Church during this period. On the other hand, he downplays or denies the much less extensive but often quite brutal crimes of the Serbian Chetniks during the same period - even to the point of making the ludicrous claim that the Serbian Orthodox Church was \\"never clearly associated with Great Serb nationalism or with the Chetniks.\\" One of the main flaws of this book is that its primary focus is on World War II - the implication being that this period crucially influenced events in the 1990s. This is only true to a certain extent, but oversimplifies and greatly downplays the even more vital 40+ ensuing years. In fact, at times this book rather eerily resembles texts often seen in Croatian and Serbian newspapers during the late 1980s and early 1990s which speak of events from 50, 150 or even 500 years ago as though they happened yesterday. West's ignorance and lack of objectivity also leads him to (rather outrageously) twice refer to the Kosovo Albanians as `Shiptars' - among non-Albanians, this is a racial epithet, not a neutral descriptive term. Tito, the central figure in this book, fares little better. Although West has a nostalgically favorable view of Tito, he offers no new insights into Yugoslavia's long-time president and strongman, only the reworded observations and conclusions from other biographies, memoirs and histories, both favorable and critical. Often he provides details on completely trivial matters from Tito's life, at one point even citing actor Richard Burton's impressions of Tito and his wife. Aside from a few mildly engaging anecdotes taken from his own travels in Yugoslavia, there is little of interest here. Reading West's book is a colossal waste of time; my recommendation is for readers to check it out of a library, peruse the photographs and then go straight to the bibliography to find more worthwhile books to read on Tito, WW2 and the Ustasha terror and the former Yugoslavia in general.	2001-05-23
US	52782589	RUE8XQL4C3DFF	0380713810	957780736	Made in America: An Informal History of the English Language in the United States	Books	5	30	35	N	N	Thoroughly enjoyable	After reading \\"The Lost Continent,\\" Bryson's often whining and largely overrated travelogue on small-town America, I hesitated before picking this one up. However, this is a very enjoyable book. Ostensibly a study of American English, its development and impact on the English language in general, this book is more of a compendium of linguistic facts and historical trivia that cover the entire scope of U.S. history from the colonial period to the present. Bryson quite unabashedly plunders the works of historians, other scholars and writers who dealt with the same subjects, so what he offers here is hardly new. But the presentation and organization are impeccable. While informing us of the origins of many words and expressions common to American English, he also provides a wealth of particularly useful information on things like American cuisine or the origins of America's highway system and car culture (one of my only criticisms is that he failed to mention the origin of quintessential car-related Americanisms like \\"rumble seat\\" or \\"to ride shotgun\\"). Bryson's engaging writing style and dry humor keep the book moving, so it is never dull and always very amusing - it seriously lives up to that old clich about how learning can be fun.	2001-05-22
US	52782589	R31NDOQLE65JOM	0803975252	678672427	Banal Nationalism (Theory, Culture and Society)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Essential reading	This book should not be so hard to get, and it definitely should be more widely read - and not just by scholars. In contrast to the oft-mentioned \\"hot\\" nationalisms which seem to plague far-off or obscure places like the Balkans, the Caucuses, etc., Billig introduces the concept of \\"banal\\" nationalism to refer to nationalism and the way this form of identity politics is reinforced in stable, affluent and apparently \\"anational\\" societies, such as Great Britain or the United States. This is not a consideration of fringe groups, but of societies as a whole. Billig conducts an exemplary analysis into how identification with one's nation or country is reinforced on a daily basis in the most subtle and unnoticeable (and thus banal) manner: the weather maps in newspapers or on television which show one's country highlighted in a different color, currency or postage stamp containing patriotic motifs, pledging allegiance to the flag every morning by school children, etc. Billig's point is that this everyday, almost unconscious intake of psychologically loaded signs, symbols and signals can be one factor in explaining how easily people come to adopt irrational openly \\"patriotic\\" ways of thinking in times of crisis, whether real or perceived (as anyone who lived in the U.S. during the Gulf War can attest to). There is also a good critique of the dichotomy created between \\"civic\\" and \\"ethnic\\" nationalism, in that those who insist on this dichotomy usually tend to view the former as \\"good\\" while the latter is definitely \\"bad.\\" Billig points out that both have the potential to become dangerously irrational.	2001-05-17
US	52782589	RWC4KBQOHSRBX	038549923X	27514325	The Question of Bruno	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Disturbing in a good way	\\"Generally speaking, the intellectual class is made up of men of average or less than average intelligence...\\" and the entire book is peppered with such truisms and wicked observations. In fact, all of the stories in this book seem to rest on a certain acid wit and, inasmuch as most of them are (semi)autobiographical, a great deal of mild, but honest self-deprecation. Hemon's childhood reminiscences written in story form are very skillfully rendered. His observations as the struggling refugee in America are particularly amusing - and there's always something mildy disturbing about them all. I'll refrain from making bold pronouncements about Hemon's place in world literature or even post-Yugoslav-war-in-Bosnia-trauma literature; these stories are simply well-written, interesting and often funny. If nothing else, it's quite entertaining to see the practical use of words taken straight from the high-school SATs, like crepuscular, glissade, hypocoristic and nacreously.	2001-05-15
US	52782589	R6QAP8ZETRUPX	0195087518	826958812	Imagining the Balkans	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Much-needed examination of Balkanism	\\"Imagining the Balkans\\" is an examination and critical analysis of perceptions of the Balkans, both by outsiders and Balkan residents. In this, Todorova emphasizes the concept of Balkanism, similar to Edward Said's Orientalism, but with some crucial differences - the main ones being that the Balkans are a more concrete concept than the rather vague \\"Orient,\\" and the lack of a clear `us vs. them' dichotomy between the Balkans and the `West' (Balkan peoples are white, and largely Christian). The first chapter provides an extremely useful and informative exploration of the origins of the very word Balkan and the geographic area it was/is meant to designate over the years. The following chapters provide a historical survey and critical analysis of how the Balkans were defined and perceived, mainly by outsiders, but also by the peoples of the Balkans. There is also a much-needed critique of the concept of Central Europe which first emerged during the early 1980s. Perhaps the only shortcoming involves Todorova's frequent emphasis on her native Bulgaria and her apparent lack of expertise in relation to Yugoslavia; thus, discussion of the entire Balkans vs. Europe debate in places like Croatia, Serbia, Bosnia and Slovenia is completely ignored. Even more surprising is the complete lack of critical treatment of Rebecca West's \\"Black Lamb and Grey Falcon,\\" perhaps one of the central texts of 20th century `Balkanism.' Nevertheless, \\"Imagining the Balkans\\" is a valuable, thought-provoking and fascinating book - one of the most important, although implicit points Todorova seems to make is that it is generally pointless, illogical and often ludicrous to imbue geographic/regional locations with a number of value-ridden stereotypes and cultural, `civilizational' designations, even as people constantly need to create such categories.	2001-05-10
US	52782589	R3MWWQ5LTIJ1CQ	0814206018	476992742	TITO: YUGOSLAVIA'S GREAT DICTATOR, A REASSESSM	Books	1	5	5	N	N	Superficial reassessment	At slightly over 100 pages, this book, pamphlet really, is hardly worth its hefty price tag, particularly since the first 90 or so pages are an incredibly abbreviated and rather unobjective account of Tito's life and post-WW2 Yugoslav history. This summary-style makes it possible for Pavlowitch to make a number of sweeping generalizations and questionable statements without the need for backing his claims or citing evidence in footnotes. In a reductionist style suited to the book's format, Pavlowitch basically says that Tito was a rather unremarkable man of middling intelligence and ability who only achieved anything through a combination of cunning, conniving and luck. It is only in the last chapter (the only one worth reading by the way) that he concedes that Tito may have had some real political and diplomatic skills despite his many shortcomings. While I have nothing against demythologizing Tito and Titoism, this \\"reassessment\\" offers nothing new - the first cracks at the Tito myth were taken almost immediately after his death in the former Yugoslavia, while a number of non-Yugoslav scholars and analysts have produced excellent works that dissected the nature of Tito's seizure and maintenance of power. Pavlowitch's overall conclusion seems to place most of the blame for Yugoslavia's collapse squarely on Tito and the socialist system he set up - a point worth discussing - but he cites mainly superficial reasons for this. He also grossly oversimplifies the nature of the Yugoslav economy, which he seems to imply only remained viable due to massive Western support. In the end, despite extensive discussion of Tito's many failings, there is no real substanstial assessment of the actual failures of his leadership of the former Yugoslavia or the system he and his ruling clique set up. Also, Pavlowitch completely fails to account for Tito's charisma and the genuine affection that many in the former Yugoslavia felt, and still do feel, for him.	2001-05-08
US	52782589	R2156DQFELSWBD	0801421861	80529509	With Stalin against Tito: Cominformist Splits in Yugoslav Communism	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Well-written, thorough	\\"With Stalin Against Tito\\" is an outstanding monograph on a crucial period in post-WW2 Yugoslav history by one of the field's preeminent historians. The Tito-Stalin split in 1948 was the first major rift to occur among the countries of the former Eastern Bloc, and its repercussions were felt in Yugoslavia, the USSR and the Soviet satellite states of Eastern Europe. Banac convincingly shows that although the conflict between the Yugoslav and Soviet communists assumed an ideological veneer, it was primarily a power struggle between two willful autocrats. This partially explains why the Yugoslav \\"Cominformists,\\" who ended up supporting Stalin's line, were such an ideologically diverse group - from national (populist) communists to dogmatic internationalist hardliners. The only thing that united them was opposition to Tito and unquestioning loyalty (in some cases) to Stalin and the much-revered Soviet Communist Party. Banac bases his study on extensive research into this area, and it's interesting that he made use of subsequent cultural production (i.e. novels, films, plays, poetry) that deals with the Cominform crisis and its consequences for Yugoslav society as valuable source material. Banac's analysis is top-notch and his writing style is very engaging and never dull.	2001-05-04
US	52782589	R18J1LJLBGK48G	0670853380	442684524	The Balkans: Nationalism, War and the Great Powers, 1804-1999	Books	2	72	81	N	N	Deeply flawed	Misha Glenny is a good reporter and an even better writer, but it takes more than that to make a good historian. This is particularly true for such an ambitious history, which covers events in the Balkans for an almost 200-year period. Indeed, much of the time this book reads like an extended newspaper feature for the Sunday edition rather than a work of in-depth, intelligent analysis. Not much more can be expected, since Glenny depended primarily on (generally very good) secondary sources and a number of travelogues, memoirs and similarly \\"light\\" primary literature. Even here, though, it's obvious that Glenny found the vastness of the material daunting, so he often fails to integrate the findings and conclusions of the many authors who came before him and neglects many major themes in Balkan history. The result is a summary of wars, crisis, etc. and even here the coverage is rather episodic: countries and peoples emerge, disappear and then abruptly reappear throughout the text. Thus, Romania is dealt with until its provinces were first unified and its independence was recognized during the 1860s, then fades out only to reappear for a brief cameo in the Balkan Wars over 40 years later. History in Bulgaria apparently ended after communist dictator Zhivkov assumed power in the mid-1950s, while Greek history peters out somewhere during the 1970s. By the 1990s, only the republics of the former Yugoslavia receive any attention at all, and this is rather piecemeal at that. There is also a rather odd section devoted to post-WW2 Turkey, which, if one can still consider it a Balkan country after the fall of the Ottoman Empire, leaves one to question why Glenny neglected telling us something about the crucial interwar period, when Kemal Ataturk initiated the efforts to transform Turkey into a modern, secular state. This is truly a journalist's approach to history: always focusing on major, often violent and traumatic events and the movers and shakers like kings, dictators, generals and major politicians, while almost completely ignoring the less noticeable people (writers, scholars, intellectuals) and often confusing (hence the need for illumination) economic, social and cultural trends and changes so crucial to a true comprehension of the region's history. There is therefore never any meaningful discussion of nationalism - part of the book's subtitle! - which has had such an inestimable impact on Balkan history. Instead, nationalism is just treated as some sort of amorphous force that emerges to make matters even worse during times of trouble. The local manifestations of other ideologies that have had and still do exercise a great influence on events in the region (socialism, communism, fascism, peasant populism) are similarly neglected. Glenny instead frequently resorts to the simpler (and much more readable) device of using anecdotal evidence to illustrate larger points. This is at times interesting and informative - particularly the section that deals with the memories of Holocaust survivors from several Balkan countries - but falls short of providing an understanding of the causes or motives behind specific events. Perhaps this failed effort best illustrates the fact that there are few if any living Balkan historians in the English-speaking world who are willing to take on the task of writing a well-researched, well-argued and well-written integrative contemporary history of the Balkans for both students and lay readers alike. This leaves the field open to talented and well-meaning, but nonetheless unqualified publicists like Glenny.	2001-05-02
US	52782589	R1YT83QO9GFMSC	0441478123	101055477	The Left Hand of Darkness	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Definitely worth reading over and over	This is one of those rare novels that I read over again every few years - and always find some new and interesting aspect overlooked before. Like any truly good SF story, is not an exercise in conjectures about man's future but rather a metaphor for mankind's present, a point she makes with much more skill and clarity in her own introduction to this book. Thus the novel's planet Gethen, with an incredibly cold, inclement climate and inhabited by people who are hermaphroditic, is nothing more than a metaphorical situation that prompts readers to think about human life on our own planet. Indeed, one of Le Guin's sharpest criticisms of our own society can be found in the musings of a non-Gethenian on the nature of interpersonal relations among the people she enconters on this rather bizarre planet: \\"One is respected and judged only as a human being. It is an appalling experience...\\" Through the voices of her characters, Le Guin makes many similarly thought-provoking points about aspects of human societies - she highlights the more disturbing or contradictory aspects of, among other things, religion, sexual relations, governmental structures and political philosophies. For the latter point, her observations on patriotism (that oft-used euphemism for nationalism) are extremely pertinent: it is succinctly and quite correctly described as fear of the other rather than love of one's country (its irrational nature is best summed up in the question asked by one character: \\"What is love of one's country; is it hate of one's uncountry?\\"). \\"Left Hand\\" is, of course, a novel, not a socio-political treatise, so all of these rather weighty topics are well-integrated into a very engrossing and beautifully written story.	2001-04-30
US	52782589	R1ZKX30P5INHDE	0312271921	815137418	No Logo: Taking Aim at the Brand Bullies	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Very important	Klein may have written this book with an ideological chip on her shoulder, but \\"No Logo\\" is nonetheless very important and informative. At one level it is a critical analysis of the consumer culture of developed countries like the US, Canada or the UK, and the `ideology' of mass consumerism as personified by fetishized brand-names. In this vein, Klein explores the origins of the very concept of branding, providing a number of interesting examples from recent and more distant history. She also looks at the implications of the increased focus on brands and the accompanying emphasis on marketing rather than production (which means \\"outsourcing\\" manufacturing jobs to third world countries with exploitatively low income levels). At another level, \\"No Logo\\" also serves as something of a history of the resistance movement to brands and the corporations that stand behind them. Even here the various NGOs, student movements, etc. are not completely free from criticism. Perhaps some of the strongest sections of the book are those dealing with conditions in the various free trade or export processing zones in places like Mexico or the Philippines - Klein visited many of these areas and held extensive interviews, and her observations and descriptions are often very moving. All in all, \\"No Logo\\" is definitely a very worthwhile read.	2001-04-24
US	52782589	R2634WHD3ZNDHI	0684818868	458361116	Lies My Teacher Told Me : Everything Your American History Textbook Got Wrong	Books	5	24	31	N	N	Sound treatment of a serious issue	Skimming over some of the many critical reviews of this book, it seems obvious that they prove at least one point Loewen is attempting to make. In sum, most of the criticisms lambast the author's \\"revisionism,\\" \\"left or liberal agenda\\" and his attack on \\"national pride\\" or the \\"American ideal.\\" (I also having a sneaking suspicion that if Loewen wrote a book that deconstructs the way that Iraq, Cuba or China present their history to youngsters all the same reviewers would give it 5-star ratings.) One of Loewen's central arguments is that history as an academic subject should NOT be about instilling patriotism or `national pride' but critically analyzing past events - this does not necessarily mean the objective truth will ever be determined, as any honest university history professor will tell you. The negative reviews here show that those who did actually pay attention during their high school history classes were in fact imbued with a sense of national pride and a \\"correct\\" way of viewing U.S. history. This is why they object so much to Loewen's \\"revisionism,\\" meaning his critical and honest treatment of the Christopher Columbus myth or his use of the Helen Keller example to show that the U.S. once had a strong, lively and popular socialist/worker's/social justice movement. Not that I agree with all of the gushing positive reviews either, but many do correctly point out that Loewen's approach would do a service to the teaching of US history because it would show how endlessly interesting and controversial that same history is. More importantly, such an approach would explain to students the underlying causes of so many of the negative aspects of American society that they undoubtedly see around themselves everyday. Such an understanding can possibly foster efforts to improve this situation, hardly an unpatriotic prospect. As an aside, I have to note that I found reading this book and the reaction to it quite fascinating, because it runs parallel to a debate that'sbeen going on among university history professors, school teachers and public education officials in many former communist countries of Europe for the last decade. Namely, the big question is should history textbooks and the teaching of history be aimed at presenting a critical analysis of the past or instilling some sort of \\"patriotic values\\" - which it did in a different way under the former communist regimes, i.e. with an ideologically-driven Marxist approach. It's interesting, and a little sad I suppose, that such a debate is not restricted to \\"developing\\" or \\"transition\\" countries.	2001-04-19
US	52782589	R1BFTWP0FV6E1I	0679732764	691093854	Invisible Man	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Great novel � period	I can't really add much to the many reviewers who came before me and heaped praise on this masterpiece of a novel. It is certainly one of the best ever written. My only additional observation is that here Ellison, among other things, really set the tone and style for a form of \\"psychological\\" literature, wherein the problems of an entire people or segment thereof are presented through the thoughts, feelings and problems of an individual, in this case the story's narrator. It is therefore fantastic literature and riveting social commentary. This style is otherwise a hallmark of much of the post-WWII literature of the former communist bloc in Europe, although very few if any Eastern European writers, whether officially sanctioned or \\"dissident\\" ever came close to matching Ellison's achievement - even though some of them managed to become more popular. Personally, I think if most of these writers had carefully read \\"Invisible Man\\" first, they probably wouldn't have bothered writing their own `masterworks' and saved many a reader the trouble of plodding through them.	2001-04-12
US	52782589	R2325M0K2VT36H	0871134691	423473157	The Lords of Poverty: The Power, Prestige, and Corruption of the International Aid Business	Books	4	43	44	N	N	Still very relevant	It's too bad that updated editions of &quot;Lords of Poverty&quot; were never published; indeed, even this edition was out of print for several years before this reprint edition. Hancock's writing style here may be a sustained rant, but it nevertheless provides a great deal of useful information and tears down many of the misconceptions most Americans or Europeans may have about the international aid industry. Particularly interesting is his criticism of the various UN agencies and, especially, the World Bank and the IMF - whose projects all too often do more harm than good (if they do any good at all). Perhaps the most disturbing aspect exposed in this book is still quite valid today: that taxpayers in the big donor countries like the U.S., Germany, Japan, the U.K. etc. are footing the bill for many disastrous projects worldwide that make the lives of impoverished populations even worse and often destroy in the environment in the process. &quot;Lords of Poverty&quot; may be dated, but it's still well worth the read.	2001-04-10
US	52782589	RCGOOO9V2TJ9D	0385312725	503617736	Talking Leaves: Contemporary Native American Short Stories	Books	4	22	24	N	N	Generally good reading	Most anthologies are inconsistent, as the quality of the various contributions varies from author to author. \\"Talking Leaves\\" is, unfortunately, no exception. While editor Craig Lesley's decision to introduce several new (sometimes unpublished) writers is commendable, there are a few rather mediocre stories or vignettes. Also, I noticed a tendency on the part of Oregon-resident Lesley to slightly favor writers from Pacific Northwest nations. Nonetheless, I would say the vast majority of the contributions are very good, if not excellent, and the variety of styles and apects of Native American life/history it contains is very impressive. The excerpts taken out of novels, something I usually dislike, are fairly good and function well as short stories (i.e. from N. Scott Momaday's \\"Ancient Child\\" and James Welch's \\"Fools Crow\\"), even though it's still obvious that they are taken from larger works. By far the best contribution is \\"Aunt Moon's Young Man\\" by Linda Hogan. The longest story in the book, it is beautifully written and absorbing - I had the impression I had just finished a novel after reading it. Thomas King's \\"A Seat in the Garden\\" is also one of the better contributions, and absolutely hilarious. In fact, a nice aspect that comes out of many of the stories is the dry humor or humorous themes, from a white revival preacher's attempt to get a very relectant Indian family to pray with him to an elderly woman's dilemmas with a cheap, noisy new refrigerator. \\"Talking Leaves\\" is a good introduction to Native American literature, although it was published almost a decade ago, so it does not include some of the younger writers who emerged in the past few years (most notably Sherman Alexie).	2001-04-09
US	52782589	R1K6J95XCQ2DSF	0312230842	506463850	The Fragmentation of Yugoslavia: Nationalism and War in the Balkans	Books	2	5	5	N	N	Nothing new here	In his preface, the author is very forthright about his book's failings and shortcomings. Basically, he tries to point out that \\"The Fragmentation of Yugoslavia\\" has a specific focus, i.e. the development and role of national ideologies in the country's break-up, rather than providing a comprehensive account of the myriad political, social, cultural, economic and other factors involved. This might have been a really good book if he had stuck to this thesis. Instead, however, he goes way off focus, summarizing not only the history of the national ideologies, but the history of the country in general. For the pre-1990 period, he relies heavily on much more detailed and informative books by other experts (notably Dennison Rusinow, Paul Shoup and Harold Lydall among others). When dealing with the post-1990 period, the author often goes into excessive detail in recounting various political/diplomatic negotiations, initiatives, etc. and wartime events, without really tying this in to his main topic (national ideologies). The author's discussion always seem rather brief and summarized - as though he's in a hurry to get to the next important subject - although given his central thesis, some more depth would seem necessary and rather welcome. The text is also rather dry, lacking even the occasional sharp observation or enlightening anecdote to improve the narrative. In his conclusion, Pavkovic states that a possible solution to the Yugoslav conflicts could be the holding of plebiscites among minority populations (whether displaced or not) as a first step in a meaningful reconciliation process. While I appreciate the sentiment, this idea is rather utopian given past events, and the author does not explain how this could be carried out in practice. All in all, \\"Fragmentation of Yugoslavia\\" is a very unoriginal and disappointing book, and despite the author's scholarly credentials, it is just another mediocre addition to the vast body of \\"Yugoslav tragedy\\" literature.	2001-03-19
US	52782589	R1XVY7RROVB1ZS	0521467055	157824656	Yugoslavia as History: Twice there was a Country	Books	4	15	15	N	N	A commendable survey	Lampe's \\"Yugoslavia as History\\" is probably the first book that deals with the entire history of Yugoslavia from its inception in 1918 to its collapse in 1991. While discussing pre-1918 developments and (very summarily) post-1991 events, he focuses his discussion on Yugoslavia as it actually existed, doing a commendable job of viewing past events on their own terms rather than through the prism of present-day events (the primary flaw of many recent historical works written both by former Yugoslav and outside scholars, commentators, etc.). Lampe's primary expertise is economic history, and this is evident in his strong analysis of Yugoslavia's frequent economic problems, which would be a crucial factor in the country's eventual downfall. However, this means he often gives short shrift to the cultural, social and intellectual antagonisms which gave expression to the country's underlying problems. Also, while socialist Yugoslavia's decentralized political structure did foment the development of separate economic, social and intellectual cultures, there were also many factors that bound Yugoslav citizens and did create a some sense of community (he only touches on sports and film, but almost completely ignores literature and pop music). Indeed, this appearance of a rudimentary common culture was what made Yugoslavia's violent breakdown so shocking to people in the county itself and to outside experts. Even so, \\"Yugoslavia as History\\" is a very strong survey of the country's troubled history and a very useful resource for students and others - it is much, much better and more informative than the many \\"instant histories\\" (a term I think Lampe himself used in a journal article) which appeared in droves once Yugoslavia did break up and the war started. The book is also, by the way, a very good reflection and summary of the main streams of American historiography on the former Yugoslavia.	2001-03-15
US	52782589	R3CPJA0Y5SRIA3	0140186417	315542328	In Dubious Battle (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	103	105	N	N	Realistic account of orchard strike	\\"In Dubious Battle\\" is basically the first of Steinbeck's socially-engaged novels, in which he portrays a strike staged by itinerant fruit-pickers against price-cutting orchard owners. This is hardly a pamphlet for the labor movement or the Communist Party, though, as Steinbeck is less interested in pontificating than showing the frustations of the workers and the toll that their resistence actually takes on them and the local community. It also shows the organizational difficulties involved in getting a diverse group of dissatisfied workers to work for a common cause. The characterization is vivid and brilliant. Aside from its obvious literary value, this novel also has historical value, for like Sinclair's \\"The Jungle\\" (although with greater realism and much less pathos) it provides a powerful description of the plight of working people in America earlier in the 20th century. \\"In Dubious Battle\\" gives readers a good idea of the type of courage it took, and still does take, to fight for positive change and social justice.	2001-03-13
US	52782589	R3GHS51RU5POGP	0815795130	319334903	Balkan Tragedy: Chaos and Dissolution after the Cold War	Books	3	12	19	N	N	Detailed but largely unsatisfying analysis	Although very dated at this point, with no consideration given to the crucial 1995 military operations in Croatia and then Bosnia and the ensuing Dayton Accords in a revised and updated edition, \\"Balkan Tragedy\\" is still a somewhat useful source because it provides considerable in-depth analysis of the underlying economic and structural causes of Yugoslavia's break-up. Woodward also tries to broaden the scope of her analysis to consider the ways in which the wider international context influenced events in the former Yugoslavia and even fomented their intensification. However, while this approach does clarify many events that occurred after the wars in Croatia and Bosnia had already begun, Woodward does not quite succeed in providing completely credible explanations for the actual origins of the Yugoslav crisis. Despite the hefty text, extensive research and copious footnotes, one can't escape the feeling that Woodward's approach is at times piecemeal (to paraphrase her former boss, the tragicomical Yasushi Akashi), primarily when dealing with the international players (from the IMF to the EU and U.S. State Department) who she insists bear a great deal of the responsibility for the Yugoslav tragedy. For while she often provides detailed explanations of the political and economic factors and pressures at play within the former Yugoslavia and their impact on decision-making and political events (which often seems to exonerate the various Yugoslav leaders of their culpability for concrete abuses of power and war crimes), she does not similarly analyze the economic/structural aspects and motivations guiding the foreign policies of the various outside powers which could have and eventually did influence Yugoslav events - even though her approach would seem to demand such consideration. Regardless of the degree of complicity of international players in the Yugoslav tragedy (and it was great), the prime responsibility for the political breakdown and course of Yugoslavia'sdissolution lies with the various post-Yugoslav leaders (some more than others). After all, they made the decisions on how to respond to and/or manipulate international (primarily economic) pressures and domestic (often nationalistic) tensions, and this is not made sufficiently clear in Woodward's book.	2001-03-05
US	52782589	R1CL4NIPUWNQWE	0061054003	205942323	SEAROAD: Chronicles of Klatsand	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Unbelievable	This is less of a review than a complaint and expression of disbelief that this book is no longer in print - meaning you have to hunt for it at used bookstores. &quot;Searoad,&quot; a collection of short stories set in a small town on the Oregon coast, is a step away from the wonderful SF/fantasy stories that Le Guin normally writes. It is also, in my opinion, Le Guin's absolutely best work, and that's saying quite a bit. With &quot;Searoad&quot; Le Guin proved that she is a master fiction writer in any genre. I can't recommend this book enough - if you can find it.	2001-03-02
US	52782589	R13PXTRO4XKKAH	0517706601	166918536	The Monkey House	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good fictionalized account	I had my doubts about a detective story being set in wartime Sarajevo, but Fullerton pulled it off with flying colors. He used his experiences as a correspondent during the war to create the setting for this novel about a detective investigating a brutal murder in a city under siege. The story is also loosely based on the Bosnian government's actual crackdown on Sarajevo's warlord militia leaders in late 1993. Fullerton weaves a fantastic story which brilliantly depicts some of the many aspects of wartime Sarajevo: the multiethnic character of the city and the fraying of interethnic tolerance as the war dragged on, the hardship and gruelling monotony of daily life and survival in Sarajevo, the blurring of lines between good and evil as the leaders of Sarajevo's prewar criminal underworld became its chief wartime defenders, the voyeuristic role played by foreign correspondents in the city, etc. All of this is adeptly merged with the story, so \\"The Monkey House\\" never falls into extended preachy tracts or historical discourse. Never dull, and never pretty, this is a dark, brooding and harsh novel - and one of the best literary descriptions of Sarajevo under siege. It's only unfoturnate that the book is not available in mass market paperback format in the U.S.	2001-02-19
US	52782589	R1SRHABINYM7LV	0520216628	822777157	The Bridge Betrayed: Religion and Genocide in Bosnia (Comparative Studies in Religion and Society)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Good sentiments, flawed analysis	My relatively high rating for \\"The Bridge Betrayed\\" is more a reflection of my agreement with the author's stance than praise for the strength of his arguments. The strongest aspect of this book is the keen analysis and refutation of the key arguments used by both Serb and Croat nationalists to justify their actions in Bosnia-Herzegovina (aimed primarily against the Bosnian Muslims). He correctly notes the frequent contradictions involved in such racial stereotyping and he coins a term, \\"Christoslavism,\\" to denote the merger of national and religious identity among both the Serbs and Croats. Sells explains that Christoslavic Serbs and Croats found it easy to demonize the Muslim Slavs of Bosnia as apostates and traitors to their Slav race. While this argument has merit and goes some way to explaining the hatred and violence in Bosnia, it does not explain the key national conflict in the former Yugoslavia, the one that more than any other led to its collapse: the conflict between the Croats and Serbs (indeed, Sells largely ignores the 1991 war in Croatia, although it was a full-scale, bloody dress rehearsal for Bosnia, with the Yugoslav Army and Serb paramilitaries honing the methods they would \\"perfect\\" in Bosnia later). Although much ethnic and religious stereotyping is involved in the mutual animosities between these two groups, it does not fit into the Christoslavic framework, simply because it is a matter of two Christian Slavic peoples. This leads to another, more important flaw: Sells' analysis is limited as an explanation, perhaps because he limits his focus on Bosnia. For even while it explains many of the hows and whys of the war in Bosnia, i.e. why the fighting was so brutal and why so many religious/cultural monuments were destroyed, how Serbs and Croats were mobilized against the Muslims and the concept of multiethnic Bosnia, etc., but it does relatively little to explain the deeper why: why this religious nationalism or Christoslavism (re)emerged at theend of the 1980s and eventually led to Yugoslavia's break-up.	2001-02-16
US	52782589	RN545P68W75T6	0804108633	546206754	Mean Spirit	Books	5	35	36	N	N	Engrossing	\\"Mean Spirit\\" is a fictionalized, but very vivid portrayal of the hardships faced by Native Americans in the former \\"Indian Country\\" (Oklahoma) during the 1920s. Most of the main characters are members of the Osage people, who were and to some extent still are better off than many other native peoples because the land alloted to them in Oklahoma sits atop a pool of oil and they retained the mineral rights. However, as Hogan points out, this material wealth was a very mixed blessing in many ways. First and foremost, the Osage became the objects of the manipulations and schemes of various oil barons and others (very likely with the tacit support of the local and even federal authorities) often with fatal consequences - and this is the main theme of the book. Although written in the engrossing style of a thriller, \\"Mean Spirit\\" is not a whodunnit novel. It is rather an exploration of the consequences of the U.S. government's policies consistently (either directly or indirectly) aimed against the interests of Native Americans, aided and abetted by society in general. It also shows that even after active fighting and expulsion ended, the war against the Native Americans continued by other means. These messages are skillfully incorporated in a very believable and realistic story (indeed, many characters and situations are based on actual people and events), which is frequently interspersed with some refreshing, very dry humor. \\"Mean Spirit\\" is a fantastic novel and a great work of contemporary fiction.	2001-02-15
US	52782589	R3BBX0OP7Z66HL	0521437733	749302823	The Invention of Tradition (Canto)	Books	3	122	151	N	N	Informative, but somewhat misguided	The basic thesis of all essays in \\"The Invention of Tradition\\" is that many of the mass, public traditions in various societies of the world (from Scottish kilts to the very concept of tribes in Africa) are well-crafted (\\"invented\\") constructs of the 18th/19th centuries, and are not as ancient or immemorial as they are generally believed to be. Parenthetically, the very expression \\"invention of tradition\\" is somewhat redundant, since all traditions, as products of human behavior and human imagination rather than the result of natural forces, are invented in one way or another. All of the essays in the book show how this is so, providing an excellent analysis of the origins of these traditions. As such they are very valuable contributions to contemporary social/political history. However, although the tone of the book is that such \\"invented traditions\\" were frequently almost imposed and/or used as instruments of political manipulation, it can't be denied that they also very often gave expression to very real feelings - as editor Hobsbawm concedes in his concluding essay. Thus, rather than demonstrating some sort of arbitrary \\"invention\\" and manipulation, Prys Morgan's chapter on the Welsh also shows how previous traditions in Wales were revived, reformulated and continuously adapted from the late seventeenth century on to meet various political, social and cultural challenges, thus making the process of invention seem quite \\"natural.\\" On the other hand, Terence Ranger's essay on Africa is almost disturbing in that it seems to imply that almost every aspect of African politics and society today were bequethed by the continent's former European colonial masters. Hugh Trevor-Roper's chapter on Scotland is useful in that it pinpoints the exact origins of the \\"highland tradition\\" and all outer, visual identity markers used by the Scots, but the overall implication seems to be that now that the sham is revealed, the Scots should discard their kilts and bagpipes in shame. It would have been more useful if he had provided an explanation of why Scottish patriots, and others, so eagerly accepted these \\"invented traditions,\\" and why they are so deeply entrenched and stronger than ever today. This goes for the entire book: it's main value may be in (unitentionally) showing how all traditions are in fact invented in one way or another, and that they become traditions because, at least at the time of their inception, they serve strongly felt political, social, cultural or even economic needs.t would have been more useful if he had provided an explanation of why Scottish patriots, and others, so eagerly accepted these \\"invented traditions,\\" and why they are so deeply entrenched and stronger than ever today. This goes for the entire book: it's main value may be in (unitentionally) showing how all traditions are in fact invented in one way or another, and that they become traditions because, at least at the time of their inception, they serve strongly felt political, social, cultural or even economic needs.	2001-02-13
US	52782589	R291J51PZCI0LQ	0295977396	134697685	First Fish, First People: Salmon Tales of the North Pacific Rim	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Not enough stars on Amazon�s scale	This collection of poems, stories, narratives, folktales, oral histories and essays very aptly portrays the vital importance of salmon to the native peoples of the entire northern Pacific rim - not just as a food resource, but as a basis for their culture and a component of their identities. Several of the contributions, particularly an essay by Jeanette Armstrong, note how sustainable yield was applied in salmon fishing for thousands of years and how the discarding of this principle in modern times has led to the excessive depletion and near extinction of this species. Since I grew up in the Pacific Northwest, I am more or less familiar with the importance of salmon to the local economies and the Native American cultures of the region, so I found the sections of the book dealing with the Ainu of Japan, the Ulchi of eastern Siberia and the Nyvkhs of Sakhalin particularly informative and enjoyable. It is also a bit depressing to learn that like the U.S. and Canada (although not nearly as brutally), Japan and the USSR/Russia similarly mistreated the local populations by, among other things, limiting or restricting their access to traditional salmon runs and/or trying to force them to adopt non-traditional ways of life (assimilation). \\"First Fish, First People\\" may be attractively published, with striking cover art and attractive photos and illustrations, but it is not a coffee-table book - its diverse contributions, taken together, outline a philosophy of respect for and wise use of natural resources, as well as (and just as importantly) respect for different cultures and different ways of life. It is almost a cliche to say that it is high time that such lessons sink in at all levels of our modern globalized and hyper-industrial societies.	2001-02-12
US	52782589	R3SQ5UXV95RK89	0192892606	364445892	Nationalism (Oxford Readers)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Indispensable resource	This is a reader that covers the various theories of nationalism as well as varieties of nationalism itself. This makes it a largely indispensable supplement, handbook and reference work for anyone interested in nationalism. This is particularly true today as the scholarship on this social phenomenon continues to grow unabated, and since it is patently obvious that nationalism hardly seems about to disappear. The reader contains important extracts from the major works on nationalism by some of the most important early theorists such as Renan, Max Weber and Stalin (although the views of Marx and Engels themselves or Lord Acton and Friedrich Meinecke would have been welcome additions) and almost all of the most important contemporary scholars (Gellner, Anderson, Connor, A. Smith, etc.). The texts are well-selected and organized, and it really contributes to making a very complex subject and a daunting field of scholarship seem a little easier to grasp.	2001-02-07
US	52782589	R1U1EK6ECY6TPU	0679760806	778351106	The Master and Margarita	Books	5	8	9	N	N	20th century masterpiece	Much is made of the symbolism and metaphorical imagery contained in this novel; it's true that it can't be separated from the time in which it was written and where - Soviet Russia in the 1920s. However, trying to deconstruct this masterpiece at its many levels takes the pleasure out of what is otherwise a fantastic and original story. Perhaps the best way to view it is the author's very personal satirical fantasy in which the narrow-minded and vain literary and theatre critics (among others) of his day get their just desserts, and the Master (obviously Bulgakov's alter-ego) finds peace with the woman he loves. In other words, you don't have to know too much about Soviet society during the early Stalinist period or even understand all of the symbolic allusions in \\"The Master and Margarita\\" to thoroughly enjoy this novel. It is a work that easily transcends the bounds of \\"Soviet dissident literature\\" (a category much more suited to someone like Solzhenitsyn) Also, anyone who has ever had a cat can appreciate Bulgakov's characterization of the obnoxious yet likable demon cat Behemoth. Although one could hardly say that \\"The Master and Margarita\\" is a feminist tract, Bulgakov's portrayal of women in the novel is uniquely progressive: Margarita, who boldly goes through the story either naked or partially clothed, largely dictates her own destiny, perhaps the only character in the book to do so. Since much is made of the novel's satirizing and criticism of the Stalinist purges and terror, I think the most poignant reflection of this is in the epilogue, when a large number of innocent black cats are tortured and/or killed in the wake of the devil's visit to Moscow. \\"The Master and Margarita\\" can be thoroughly enjoyed at so many levels, making it without a doubt one of the 20th century's greatest novels.	2001-02-06
US	52782589	R2YHKKWQHHA1SN	0140187502	163297853	Sweet Thursday (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Good, but still just a sequel	Perhaps Steinbeck never should have bothered writing this novel, since it's simply a sequel to his infinitely entertaining and unsurpassable \\"Cannery Row.\\" Whereas the latter book is more a series of lovingly written vignettes about Monterey in the late 1930s than a straightforward novel, \\"Sweet Thursday\\" (which deals with the same characters and places in the late 1940s) does not have the same feel, involving a more coherent story and more \\"character development.\\" This is why some of the magic and charm is taken away from characters like Doc, Hazel and Mack - although one could argue that Steinbeck brought these characters down to earth by showing them as normal people subject to change and aging (i.e. Doc's rather odd version of a mid-life crisis). Even though it is a much weaker literary work than its predecessor, \\"Sweet Thursday\\" is still engaging and very, very funny.	2001-01-31
US	52782589	R37VAD0820CY01	0312861435	345231933	The Memory of Whiteness: A Scientific Romance	Books	4	6	7	N	N	First class SF	A fine example of thinking man's SF a la Clarke, Asimov or Le Guin, this early work by Kim Stanley Robinson compels readers to ponder the nature of space and time, and their relationship to music - the major theme of the story. These themes are skillfully tied together in a very well-written and suspenseful story that takes its characters from one end of the solar system (Pluto) to the other (in orbit around the sun). Incidentally, this latter aspect was particularly well-rendered; Robinson really did a good job of describing what it would be like flying in a spacecraft along the sun's surface and hanging around in a space station just above the its flare zone. The story moves along quickly, and despite the author's exploration of various scientific and philosophical aspects of the nature of existence, he makes no grand statements in the end, leaving readers to ponder these matters and draw their own conclusions. Except for the author's annoying way of addressing the \\"dear Reader\\" when speaking in the narrative voice, this is an almost perfect short sci-fi novel.	2001-01-30
US	52782589	R1T0NE8D4U3C3J	1563240335	54724210	Balkan Worlds: The First and Last Europe (Sources and Studies in World History)	Books	2	5	10	N	N	Incomplete, biased, disappointing	Since the author actually studied under one of the twentieth century's great historians, Fernand Braudel, I really had high expectations of this book. Most of them were not met. Stoianovich attempts to present a &quot;total history&quot; of the Balkans, which means it is not restricted to any historical period, nor to any specific field of study, encompassing consideration of the economy, society, geography, biological/environmental factors, etc. for the region as a whole. The author should be commended for such an ambitious undertaking, and his wide knowledge of the relevant primary and secondary sources is quite impressive. However, the book requires quite a bit of prior knowledge on the Balkans, so it cannot be used as an introduction to the region and its history. It seems as though Stoianovich's narrower field of interest is the Balkans under Ottoman rule, as it is those parts of the text which deal with that period that provide the most coherent analysis and receive the most thoughtful consideration. Also, the entire book has a rather disjointed character, as the author often cites dizzying quantities of information on e.g. linguistic morphology or whether patterns from Neolithic times to the present without tying the threads together clearly, thus leaving the reader feeling more confused rather than informed. Nationalism, as an overriding socio-political force in the Balkans for much of the last two centuries, is dealt with in an unsatisfactory manner: Stoianovich never quite explains it in the context of the region's overall, long-term development. Although he indirectly cites Ernest Gellner's theory of nationalism as a by-product of modernization and industrialization, he fails to explain why nationalism emerged among many Balkan peoples in a decidedly pre-industrial stage of their development. Another failing is the author's rather obvious pro-Serb bias: the preponderance of examples he uses involve Serbia or the Serbs, and he tries to give various Serbianpoliticians, scholars, philosophers, etc. a wider significance than they actually merit. In his discussion of Yugoslavia's collapse and the ensuing wars in the early 1990s, this line of thought leads to a rather sad and misguided exercise in trying to assign a kind of value-based &quot;national character&quot; to the Serbs and Croats (suffice it to say, the Serbs are imbued with positive traits while the Croats come out as rather treacherous). For me this aspect rather sullies the entire book, which is unfortunate, since his concluding chapter contains many valid observations and warnings on the nature of global capitalism and its consequences for the natural environment. While &quot;Balkan Worlds&quot; has many commendable aspects, as a whole the book is disappointing and largely fails as a total history of the Balkans.	2001-01-26
US	52782589	R1765EY9QT27UO	1560973927	686955598	Safe Area Gorade: The War in Eastern Bosnia 1992-1995	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Truly outstanding	Someone once strongly recommended that I read this, although I have to admit I wasn't expecting much at first. I was really unsure how the Bosnian war could be rendered in comic strip fashion. However, \\"Safe Area Gorazde\\" is incredible: this is one of the best journalistic accounts to come out of the Bosnian war in any format. Sacco recounts the horrific war stories told to him by his friends and acquaintances in Bosnia with a great deal of honesty. He very effectively incorporates his own wit and the dry humor of the Bosnians into his narrative without turning it into a satire. I also like the fact that he was quite critical of the role of foreign reporters and correspondents (including himself) in Bosnia, i.e. their frequent insensitivity or their effective eavesdropping on the suffering of others. His illustrations also speak for themselves as he very accurately recreates the wartime destruction of property and the rag-tag appearance of the people; he has a unique talent for re-creating facial expressions that reflect a range of emotions. Hats off to Mr. Sacco, he deserves every praise for this informative and moving portrayal of wartime and immediate postwar Gorazde.	2001-01-17
US	52782589	R3U00TSFBYLDT6	0810113414	331874364	Kaputt (European Classics)	Books	3	8	16	N	N	Mixed feelings	\\"Kaputt\\" is about the decay of European society as World War II raged, with a focus on the lands either occupied or allied to Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy. This story is told through the eyes of an Italian war correspondent travelling about these countries in the uniform of an Italian army captain. Much of the narrative is unique, as the author recounts experiences in the form of conversations about them held with other people in other parts of wartorn or war-effected Europe (such as with the Swedish crown prince in Stockholm or with a group of flighty Italian and other European nobles in Rome). The writing style changes frequently, from straightforward reporting of certain events to more surreal or impressionistic descriptions of people, events, moods and feelings. However, despite all of these intriguing aspects, I found \\"Kaputt\\" a rather tiresome book. Often the author's attempts at literary surrealism, impressionism or expressionism are simply overdone and needlessly wordy. Another problem is that although Malaparte presents his narrative as a memoir, apparently parts of the text are fabricated - thus making much of it fiction rather than an actual war memoir (e.g. although I don't know much about the author, I personally found it hard to believe that this erstwhile communist veteran of Italian jails could be such a confidant and almost confessor to Mussolini's foreign minister and son-in-law, Count Ciano). Even so, I can't completely pan this book, simply because it is so original in showing the moral decay of much of Axis-controlled Europe during the war. The conversations with various members of the nobility in Axis Europe, as well as with various high Nazi or collaborator officials in places like Finland or Romania, whether real or fictionalized, add much to the text. Also, as the previous reviewer notes, it does contain, even if only briefly in a few places, perhaps the first literary treatment of the Holocaust (\\"Kaputt\\" was first published in 1943). Onething Malaparte does excel at is depicting the manifold suffering the war caused to masses of people - there were a few points where I actually cringed while reading. \\"Kaputt\\" would have been a outstanding illustrative account of World War II if so much of the text were not simply superfluous.	2001-01-12
US	52782589	R1JNBANAAAUTV2	0826304362	920572392	The Way to Rainy Mountain	Books	4	33	37	N	N	Unique	This book is deceptively short: it can be read in about an hour, but you find yourself going back and reading its various passages and thinking about them long afterwards. Momaday tells a story of the Kiowa Indians by tying in three aspects: folklore, actual historical events and his own family history. The book's format underscores this, with the first, folkloric item printed on one page, and the historical and personal reflections in separate paragraphs on the facing page, all set in different fonts. Not meant to be a comprehensive account of the Kiowas, it is rather an attempt to express the author's own feelings and his own view of his heritage. In this he largely succeeds, as he writes poetry in a simple yet powerful prose form. The only shortcoming for me were the illustrations (done by Momaday's father), which seemed to add little to the overall narrative. Otherwise, \\"The Way to Rainy Moutain\\" is a very unique and worthwhile book.	2001-01-05
US	52782589	R3M5OUJNPKKB6I	0679728872	165340893	A Lost Lady (Vintage Classics)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Subtle and graceful	Like the majority of Cather's works, \\"A Lost Lady\\" immediately draws readers into its straight-forward narrative, and brings otherwise unremarkable characters to life with very concisely-worded descriptions. This novel tells the story of Marian Forrester, the wife of a much-older former railroad construction manager living in a small town in the Great Plains. Her beauty, polite reserve and the fact that she is from California make her a magnet for attention to the people of this small town. Most of the story is told through the eyes of Neil Herbert, a young man who has admired Mrs. Forrester from near and afar since his boyhood. I believe that the book's title refers more to Neil's perception of Mrs. Forrester as being somehow lost rather than a reflection of the actual situation, since Mrs. Forrester proves herself unexpectedly resourceful in many ways. Perhaps the most interesting aspect oft his rather too-short novel is the skillful way that Cather integrates her themes and leitmotivs: there's Cather's well-known fixation with the closing of the pioneering era of the American prairies, as well as her rather subtle portrayal of racism, as seen in the German immigrant boys who \\"know their place.\\" This novel is definitely among Cather's better works of fiction.	2001-01-04
US	52782589	RH5X8J4VZKU8L	1584650400	66307718	The Nation in History: Historiographical Debates about Ethnicity and Nationalism (The Menahem Stern Jerusalem Lectures)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Good introduction to Smith	The text of this book is based on a series of lectures delivered by Smith in Jerusalem in May 1999. Although intended to be an analysis of theories of nations and nationalism in recent history and the historiography on this topic, the book also provide a good introduction as any to Smith's vast and important body of work on nations and nationalism. The chapters of this book offer an excellent summary of some of the main streams in contemporary nationalism theory and interesting critiques of them as well. Smith's own theory of the origins of nations is based on what he calls ethnosymbolism. Basically he sees modern nations as having their roots in previously existing ethnicities (\\"ethnies\\") and the associated traditions and customs, although he does not strictly adhere to the organic continuity of nations throughout history (a view generally held by nationalists themselves). Also, he emphasizes, quite correctly, the importance of myths, memories and especially symbols and their role in fomenting and maintaining a sense of common identity among the people unified in a nation. This often places him at odds with the major body of theorists who see the nation and nationalism as strictly political instruments or functions of economic change, even though Smith does not refute the validity of such arguments. Smith presents his arguments very clearly here, and this book is well worth reading.	2001-01-02
US	52782589	R2B0KVEUF2Q7VC	0521274591	250305114	002: History of the Balkans, Vol. 2: Twentieth Century (The Joint Committee on Eastern Europe Publication Series, No. 12)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Dated at places, otherwise excellent	The scope of Jelavich's second volume of her \\"History of the Balkans\\" actually covers the last several decades of the nineteenth century and ends with the early 1980s, when it was published. No updated editions were ever published. This unfortunately makes an otherwise exemplary historiographical work somewhat dated. Jelavich's analysis of events and developments in the communist Romania, Albania and Bulgaria, as well as Greece is, however, a good summary of the history of these countries from 1945 to the early 1980s. Where the book is obviously dated is in its coverage of the former Yugoslavia: in her conclusions, the author implies a generally positive course for this country based on its relative successes until then in economic and overall social development. Nonetheless, her examination of socialist Yugoslavia does provide a view into the country's flaws, which would eventually lead to its violent collapse in 1991. Jelavich's treatment of the late 19th century, the two World Wars and the interwar is comprehensive and very informative; the author's vast knowledge of numerous primary sources and the extensive secondary literature on this region comes to the fore here. Although Jelavich's strength is her knowledge of political and diplomatic history, she provides a strong analysis of the region's underlying economic problems (which in all countries considered is the relative technological backwardness). The only weakness of this volume is the short-shrift given to cultural/social issues - thus, very little is said about literary and artistic activity, or the effects of the vast social change in Western Europe and the U.S. on the various Balkan countries. Her overall conclusion is obviously a bit dated since all of the communist regimes have since fallen. Nevertheless, this is an excellent integrated history which is broken down into logical chronological and geopolitical sections, making it also useful as a reference work.	2000-12-27
US	52782589	R11V5GTLPOBQ81	0312158955	721791888	A Concise Historical Atlas of Eastern Europe	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Incredibly useful resource	Anyone who studies or just has a passing interest in East Central and Southeastern Europe is well aware of the often confusing political geography of this region caused by frequent wars, invasions, conquests, re-conquests and the break-up of larger ethnically diverse empires and states. The maps are simple, yet they provide a great deal of detail, i.e. the name and borders of various regions, administrative districts within empires or states, city names, etc. The maps go from the Roman era to modern times, and there are also very helpful demographic and physical maps at the beginning. All maps are accompanied by concise texts explaining the various historical events which led to the constant changes in the region's geopolitical fortunes. These texts are also a worthy attempt at providing a comprehensive summary of the region's history. This atlas is an ideal tool for the study of Eastern Europe; college students will find it invaluable. If nothing else, every reporter, correspondent and photo-journalist working in the region should have a copy of this with them when working in the region.	2000-12-22
US	52782589	R2JAWHRELRGFYL	0441783589	242880671	Starship Troopers	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Controversial, but not a treatise for fascism	Contrary to much of the criticism of this novel, including some of the reviews on this page, Heinlein, more of a libertarian than anything, was not espousing some kind of fascist utopia (which is what tends to come out of the atrocious movie based on this novel). The author explicitly notes at several points in the novel that his future society is not run by the military but by those who have served in the military. Active soldiers, like \\"civilians,\\" are not allowed to vote or partake in politics either. However, as grimly realistic as Heinlein was trying to be, his vision of a future society run by veterans with a sense of public duty is nonetheless utopian. There is no guarantee that military or other public service, or even selfless military activity during a war, will nurture the necessary sense of public duty to create good citizens - which seems to be implied in this novel. Indeed, even though Heinlein's future society was supposed to stand as a counterpoint not only the imperfect liberal democracies of the West but also to the communist bloc (an issue quite relevant at the time of first publication, 1959), some of the aspects of his idealized societies were already then apparent in obstensibly socialist countries like the USSR and especially the former Yugoslavia: war veterans were untouchable social and political icons. They were the de facto leaders of their countries, not the \\"party vanguard,\\" \\"proletariat\\" or anything else. I'm not sure if Heinlein had considered this aspect, but at one point in the book he is forced to admit, through one of his characters, that the reason his future society is the \\"best\\" is simply because it works. Nonetheless, Heinlein presents his provocative arguments well, and they are intriguing, so readers who don't necessarily share his views have something intelligent to disagree with. Also interesting is that many of Heinlein's criticisms of 20th century society (and there is no doubt that America bears the brunt of his ire) are quite valid, much more so today then when this book was first written. Other than these political aspects, though, Starship Troopers\\" is a bit flat and simplistic, even if it is easy to read -- it has the advantage of coming from Heinlein's finest writing period (mid-1950s to mid-1960s) when he skillfully combined his ideas with an engaging story-telling style.quite valid, much more so today then when this book was first written. Other than these political aspects, though, Starship Troopers\\" is a bit flat and simplistic, even if it is easy to read -- it has the advantage of coming from Heinlein's finest writing period (mid-1950s to mid-1960s) when he skillfully combined his ideas with an engaging story-telling style.	2000-12-14
US	52782589	R290H69OAJJOC5	0521274583	399153308	001: History of the Balkans, Vol. 1: Eighteenth and Nineteenth Centuries (The Joint Committee on Eastern Europe Publication Series, No. 12)	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Comprehensive introduction to Balkan history	Although published in the late 1980s with no updated editions in later years, Jelavich's masterful \\"History of the Balkans\\" is still by far the best introduction to contemporary Balkan history. This first volume traces the developments among the various Balkan peoples as they moved into modernity and formed independent nation states. Jelavich begins with a short and very informative introduction to Balkan history up to the end of the 17th century, i.e. the time when Ottoman power in the region seriously began to wane and the role of the Habsburg Monarchy and Russia (and later all of the major European powers) in the region became crucial. The author focuses mostly on the Ottoman Empire and the Balkan nationalities under Ottoman rule, the Bulgarians, Greeks, Romanians and Serbs, and the Albanians to a lesser extent, as it was among these people that the first revolts occurred and the first nation states were formed in the Balkans. Even so, Jelavich provides excellent analysis of the main currents in the Habsburg Monarchy's Balkan possessions, mainly the Croatian lands but also Vojvodina and Transylvania with their large Serbian and Romanian populations. Perhaps the main thing that comes out of this volume is that Ottoman rule in the Balkans was not as oppressive as it was often later portrayed (i.e. the notorious \\"Turkish yoke\\" of national(ist) historiography in the Balkans). It was in fact this empire's decentralized governing institutions, tolerance of non-Islamic religious communities, and general inefficiency that made possible a great deal of local autonomy among the Balkan peoples and proved conducive to the nationalist uprisings of the 19th century. Also important is Jelavich's repeated emphasis on the region's general poverty. Throughout the period this book covers, the vast majority of the Balkan people were peasants who often lived at subsistence levels. This factor was crucial in shaping the region's history. This book contains both detailed accounts of the major events in Balkan history during the period it covers as well as strong analysis of the underlying social and political processes. It therefore provides a strong basis for understanding Balkan history, and greatly helps in comprehending current events in the region.	2000-12-11
US	52782589	R1ADWL292019IX	0385418965	187984478	Girls at War and Other Stories	Books	5	47	48	N	N	Great stories by a master writer	This is an impressive collection of short stories that covers a twenty-year period of Achebe's writing. They also cover a period of history in his native Nigeria that spans from the late colonial period to the Biafran war. In them Achebe explores various aspects of a predominant theme in his work, i.e. tradition vs. modernism in his country (as introduced by British colonial administration). The various stories offer glimpses into the lives of people from various classes and walks of life. Achebe has a concise and eloquent writing style; he has an almost singular talent for making very pertinent observations in an extremely pithy fashion. Thus, for example, in the few pages of a story like \\"Dead Man's Path,\\" Achebe brings to life the problems which ensue from the drive for quick modernization, the desire to adhere to tradition and the hypocrisy of Nigeria's colonial administrators. Also impressive is Achebe's mastery of narrative styles, i.e. first person, omiscient, etc. These stories can be read on their own, or as a supplement to Achebe's similarly powerful novels.	2000-12-08
US	52782589	RK0N0WYEXA0ZN	0312147384	669952688	The Sky Fisherman: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Another great novel by Lesley	Craig Lesley has the uncanny ability to draw readers into his narrative immediately. His characterizations and dialogue are so realistic that it's often difficult to believe his works are fiction. In `The Sky Fisherman,' Lesley writes something of a coming of age story, in which the book's narrator Culver Martin comes to terms with his father's death years earlier and the circumstances that surround and haunt relations between himself, his mother and his uncle. At the same time, Lesley provides a real picture of relations in a small town near an Indian reservation. Here Lesley brings to life the complex feelings and resentments on both sides of this line, i.e. among the town's mill-workers, farmers, etc. and the Indians on the other. Also well-rendered is the love for and obsession with fishing and hunting on the part of the locals, which the author brings to life in his evocative descriptions of the landscape - although he fictionalizes many place-names, it's obvious that he is referring to the Deschutes River in Oregon. This is certainly Lesley's best novel.	2000-12-04
US	52782589	R79YFJ88BE07G	0847698203	712030404	Only the Nails Remain: Scenes from the Balkan Wars	Books	1	11	14	N	N	Insubstantial fluff	Generally I stopped reading books on the Balkans and the former Yugoslavia written by passersby (or perhaps a better word would be &quot;passers-through&quot;) a few years ago because they are largely uninformative and self-serving. The only reason I picked this one up is because I met and briefly spoke with the author in Zagreb in late 1992. He made a very favorable impression on me; I found him quite intelligent and likable, and was therefore interested in his account of his trips to the Balkans. I wish I hadn't bothered. &quot;Only the Nails&quot; differs little from books written by various superficial journalists, writers, poets and other &quot;truth-seekers.&quot; It follows the general framework established by Robert Kaplan's inane &quot;Balkan Ghosts&quot; and continued in various forms by Peter Maass, Janine DiGiovanni, Martin Bell and scores of others. To his credit, Merrill faithfully reproduces the many conversations he held with friends and acquaintances in Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia, Serbia, etc. and some of these are very interesting. However, this hardly makes up for the book's glaring shortcomings: from factual errors that riddle the entire book (e.g. the frequent misspelling of place-names, inaccurate dates or misplacing of events) to the author's forays into history which are often misleading (e.g. he says Serbia started both of the pre-WWI Balkans Wars, which is untrue; or Bulgaria only gained independence in 1908, again, not completely accurate). Much of this could have been corrected by less-indulgent editors and even the most perfunctory consultation of dictionaries, atlases, encyclopedias or the very sources cited in Merrill's bibliography - which he obviously read quite superficially. Also troubling was Merrill's tendency, at least in Croatia, to play the typical war tourist, getting some knowledgable locals to take him close to the frontlines so he could observe wartime destruction and its sorrowful victims (playing guide to ignorant and often obnoxious free-lance reporters and photographers is something in which I have quite a bit of experience). He even has the cheek to say he became &quot;bored&quot; with the (understandable) bitterness of his two Croatian guides, both of whom had first-hand experience of Croatia's bloody and now largely forgotten war in 1991. In fact, the motive for his frequent trips to Sarajevo go largely unexplained, except that the author at some level liked the rush of being in a city under siege (he indirectly admits this toward the end of the book). In the end, this book is just a mish-mash of the author's impressions, which offer little in the way of explaining anything, much less the underlying causes or motivations that led to the Third Balkan War.	2000-12-01
US	52782589	RS5GZRKBX80EG	0679734856	594234915	The Good Rain: Across Time and Terrain in the Pacific Northwest (Vintage Departures)	Books	4	79	84	N	N	Personal survey of Pacific Northwest	This is not a history of the Pacific Northwest, nor even a comprehensive contemporary profile of this region. It is one man's often very personal view of his home, the place where he grew up, and the political, social and economic issues that underlie everyday life there. Egan makes no attempt at cold objectivity; he is writing about something he loves, and this comes through in the text. He also makes abundantly clear what he doesn't like. Thus, this book is controversial and thought-provoking. Although \\"The Good Rain\\" is ostensibly about the Pacific Northwest, an area that at its widest extent includes Washington, Oregon, most of British Columbia in Canada and even the northern parts of California, Egan focuses mostly on parts of Washington, which is good, because this is what he knows best (even though the chapter on the Siskiyou forests of Oregon is very well written and informative). The book is well organized, and Egan selected the main topics for his chapters well; they cover the principal socio-economic and political concerns of the region: timber and loggers, salmon, fruit-growing, urban development, the local Native Americans, the Columbia River, etc. He also did a good deal of research on the region's history upon settlement (or conquest) by the Americans and the British, and his writing makes these often dry facts come to life. Probably the main theme of Egan's argument here is that as the Pacific Northwest makes its transition into a vital part of the Pacific Rim, it needs to discard the central resource extraction element of its economy which marked its early years of development (after the Indians were pushed aside). The author here makes no secret of his distaste for the rapacious timber industry (even though he is not anti-logger or opposed to sustainable use of forests) and the Army Corps of Engineers (which is still intent on damming up the last untouched parts of the Columbia and destroying the remaining significant salmon runs). Although it waswritten ten years ago, \\"The Good Rain\\" has lost none of its freshness and relevance. Perhaps my only criticisms would be a) Egan often omitted citing dates even when dealing with specific events (so that there is reference to e.g. something taking place \\"in Seattle tonight\\") and b) he relies too much and sometimes depends excessively on a book by Theodore Winthrop, a New Englander who traveled through the region in 1853. Nevertheless, this book is well worth reading.	2000-11-21
US	52782589	RGBDUNJNRFJUK	1842121022	865422789	Memoir of the Bobotes	Books	1	4	12	N	N	Early war tourism in the Balkans	Since I haven't read any of Joyce Cary's other works, I really can't comment on the literary value of this book as one of his first forays into writing. But as a first-hand account of the first Balkan War in 1912/13 on the Montenegrin front, it hardly functions at all. Cary makes very clear early in this memoir that the sole reason he volunteered to do Red Cross work was in search of \\"adventure\\" - as only a pampered upper middle class turn-of-the-century British youth could. There is never any recognition of the fact that his \\"adventure\\" is for other people a matter of life and death, nor of all the misery that wars bring. And this sets the tone for the entire book: Cary writes about his Red Cross colleagues and their mundane day-to-day activities, and occasionally about some of the \\"colorful locals\\" they have to deal with. The war that forms of the backdrop and raison d'etre for Cary's entire \\"adventure\\" almost fades away. He only writes about actual battles he witnessed a few times, and here his primary interest is the tactics used by the various armies to take a few yards of territory; he hardly takes note of the casualties falling left and right, which is nothing short of astonishing from a Red Cross worker who had to help in their treatment. After reading this, I felt that Cary was either in massive denial or he was just incredibly insensitive and self-centered. Cary also devotes much of the narrative to food and the preparation of meals (he also served as cook) and basically his only justification for this is that, in essence, there was nothing more exciting to write about. Somehow I just couldn't sympathize with the fact that the Balkan wars failed to thrill him sufficiently. Generally then, this book fails both as a testament to the Balkan wars, since the author was almost completely uninterested in their course or their wider social and political implications, and even as literature: the narrative is often simply tiresome. Perhaps the only value of this text is that it is an early documentation of war tourism in the Balkans, something that would really take off during the 1990s when the wars in Croatia and Bosnia started.	2000-11-15
US	52782589	R1GO6A7TLM8V1Y	1569247439	572335752	Spunk: Selected Short Stories	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Good introduction to Hurston	The short stories contained in this book reflect the manifold talents of Zora Neale Hurston as a fiction writer. Hurston knew her subject matter inside and out, whether it be the poor African American communities of Florida or Harlem during the \\"Renaissance.\\" She blends folklore and keen observations with her anthropological knowledge to create stories that seem like little pieces of real life. In stories like \\"Spunk,\\" \\"Isis\\" and \\"Sweat,\\" she heralds her brilliant novels such as \\"Their Eyes Were Watching God\\" and \\"Jonah's Gourd Vine.\\" Hurston's mastery of biblical themes and styles is reflected in \\"Book of Harlem\\" and \\"Herod on Trial\\" (in the appendix), a skill she would later put to use in her masterpiece \\"Moses, Man of the Mountain.\\" Also, in almost all of the stories, the dialogue is authentic and very fun to read.	2000-11-14
US	52782589	R1ZDZTQJOJXCGG	0920080898	751367602	Dzelarhons: Mythology of the Northwest Coast	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Well-written Native American tales	Despite the subtitle, this is not a typical folklorist collection of myths. Cameron modifies these stories and imbues them with her literary style and philosophy of life. She ably merges contemporary themes with the traditional tales of the Pacific coastal Indian of Canada - which is another refreshing aspect of this book, as most published Native American myths and legends focus on Plains and Southwest nations. The result of Cameron's masterful storytelling is a set of alluring, eerie and sometimes humorous stories. Particularly interesting is \\"The Bearded Woman,\\" something of a feminist fable. Also fascinating is the central story \\"Dzelarhons,\\" which is an epic spanning many generations and several different yet somehow related women named Dzelarhons. Among other things, this story serves as something of an allegory for history and human relations in general.	2000-11-13
US	52782589	RXMSXDVM4BHKL	0385474555	441055368	No Longer at Ease	Books	5	35	39	N	N	First-rate literature	\\"No Longer At Ease\\" deals with a theme that is well-developed by Achebe, i.e. the exploration of the interaction between rapid modernization (or, better stated, Westernization) brought to Africa by colonial (mis)rule on the one hand, and tradition on the other. I actually think this book is better than \\"Things Fall Apart,\\" in which Achebe depicts the brutality of the outright conquest of an African society by a colonial power (in this case the British). In \\"No Longer At Ease\\" he shows the deep and drastic changes which occurred in society in Nigeria as colonial rule became established, and how this change warped social relations in the country. Society in the colony is no longer something created and maintained by the native Africans, but rather an imitation (or attempt thereof) of the colonial power's society. It lies somwhere in between, because it's not traditional, yet the natives are treated like second-class citizens in their own country. Through the central character, Achebe does an excellent job of evoking the alienation and frustration this engenders among those Nigerians who are Western-educated and urbanized, yet not really able or allowed to participate in decision-making in any meaningful way. Achebe is a truly masterful writer who can convey such a potent message through literature.	2000-11-09
US	52782589	R3BC6FM1YDUAXK	0395669219	811090785	Encyclopedia of North American Indians: Native American History, Culture, and Life From Paleo-Indians to the Present	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Fantastic reference work	\\"Encyclopedia of the North American Indians\\" is probably one of the best reference works of its type for any subject. The entries are clear, concise and highly informative and there are a large number of useful photographs and illustrations. It covers all relevant subject areas connected to the Native Americans: history, literature, culture, customs and language, politics and contemporary issues. By itself it is a highly informative book, yet it also serves as a vehicle for further study of more specific subject matter; in this sense, it is very helpful that all entries include the names of their authors and that biographical information is also provided. The further reading lists are also very helpful. Anyone even remotely interested in Native Americans has to have this valuable resource on his/her bookshelf.	2000-11-07
US	52782589	R17FYGNJYQ9HF1	0814797660	48142276	The Balkans Since 1453	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Still the standard	Even though this book was first published over 40 years ago, it is still the seminal text on general Balkan history. L.S. Stavrianos provided a detailed, comprehensive yet immensely readable survey of events and developments in the Balkans since the Ottoman conquest of Constantinople in 1453. He deals with each country/region individually, but also maintains an overall perspective and analysis. Even if the narrative ends with the immediate post-World War II years, this text illuminates many of the historical precedents that underpin current events in the region. It is therefore much more useful to read this book than the many essentially popular histories written about the Balkans as a whole or the invidual countries in the region over the course of the last decade. The publisher should also be commended for re-issuing this book; for years the about only place one could find it was at major universities and larger, better-stocked public libraries. There's no substitute for this book, it is a must-read for everyone who really wants to learn about Balkan history.	2000-11-03
US	52782589	R2EAB0VTGSLGRQ	0060973595	506969147	Seraph on the Suwanee	Books	2	5	8	N	N	Not on par with Hurston�s other works	One of the reviewers below stated that admirers of Hurston \\"won't be disappointed\\" by this book. I beg to differ: I've read pretty much everything Hurston has written, and I think she is without a doubt one of the best American (and perhaps world) writers of the twentieth century. But \\"Seraph\\" was a great disappointment. Hurston simply overreached with this one. By the time I had finished reading it, I found myself wondering what the point of this book was. The story follows the marriage of a Florida couple over several decades. The husband is ambitious and forceful, yet also arrogant and sometimes violent, while the wife is timid and (overly) sensitive. Told from the wife's point of view, the problem with the story is that it essentially goes from a more or less realistic give-and-take between the two to an account of how she tries to prove herself worthy of her husband (there is little in the way of growth on his part by the way, e.g. he never expresses any regret for having acted like a brute during the early years of their marriage). Thus, \\"Seraph on the Suwanee\\" basically reads like a romance novel. It's true that anthropologist Hurston provides some interesting details into the lives of the \\"Florida crackers\\" (i.e. poor southern whites) in the early 20th century, but this is hardly enough to compensate for the novel's weaknesses. It's hard to believe that the literary genius who wrote \\"Their Eyes Were Watching God\\" (among other excellent books) could produce such a lackluster work	2000-11-02
US	52782589	R3DEJD15BAFUI4	0684829479	992008202	The Origins of The Second World War	Books	5	30	36	N	N	Highly informative	Taylor's contribution to the literature on the Second World Waris a must read. He exhaustively researched the diplomatic dealingsthat preceded the outbreak of war and provided a wealth ofinformation. He shows that neither was Hitler simply a raving,irrational madman, nor were the British, French and other leadersparagons of virtue and sterling defenders of democratic ideals. As inmost cases in history in which \\"high politics\\" are involved, thediplomatic dealings occuring on the eve of World War II show that itis difficult to clearly distinguish between the \\"good\\" and the\\"bad\\" - even when detestable ghouls like Hitler areinvolved. Another important aspect of Taylor's work here is to showhow much history is more than just a series of broad processes, butalso a matter of minute human interactions. Thus, one can only go sofar in explaining the Second World War in terms of socio-economicfactors (which were, to be sure, crucial) - one also has to look athow events are the result of actions taken by powerful leaders andtheir back-room dealings with each other. All in all, an excellent andvery illuminating book.  END	2000-10-31
US	52782589	R1DNSFZ9OQF52U	0300076681	84111494	Croatia: A Nation Forged in War	Books	2	15	33	N	N	Amateur history	Tanner covered wartime events in Croatia during the early 1990s as a newspaper correspondent, and based on this experience he decided to take on the ambitious project of writing a history of Croatia. In Croatia, and in this part of Europe in general, such a work is referred to as \\"publicistic,\\" meaning it was not written by a qualified historian or political scientist. This is obvious throughout the book: Tanner rather quickly masticates centuries of Croatian history (or perhaps more correctly stated - history in Croatia) to get to the most recent period of independence and war, with which he is most familiar. His summary of Croatian history before this depends almost entirely on secondary sources, some of them middling books translated into English over the last ten years and meant to serve as promotional tools for the new Croatian state (e.g. a monograph on the Croatian parliament, among others). Thus, Tanner (probably unintentionally) falls prey to presenting something of a \\"pro-Croatian\\" view, as he did not actually do any comprehensive research, thereby precluding any possibility of critically analyzing primary sources. The same holds for his approach to secondary sources for that matter, so even when he does take a critical stance, he just seems to be repeating what others have said before him. Perhaps the most disappointing aspect of this book is that even the chapters covering wartime events during the 1991-1995 period are largely unoriginal, even though Tanner witnessed most of these events. Much has been written about Yugoslavia's collapse and the ensuing wars in the last ten years, and Tanner's analysis does not differ much from that of dozens of other journalists, scholars and political analysts. In sum, this is a very disappointing book. Those who want a sound, critical overview of Croatian history in English written by a qualified historian should read Ivo Goldstein's \\"Croatia: A History.\\"	2000-10-30
US	52782589	R380FOOPYVMDZR	0810829991	903477021	Historical Dictionary of the Republic of Croatia	Books	1	5	6	N	N	Not propaganda, just useless	The previous review makes some very good points about the many flaws in this hastily compiled and poorly written \\"historical dictionary.\\" However, I don't believe the intent of the authors was to engage in a propaganda exercise, nor that the publisher had some hidden agenda in printing it; on the contrary, it is part of a series of \\"European Historical Dictionaries,\\" which, if this volume is any indication, are not of a very high quality. The problem with this book is that it seems to be more of a political lexicon for the Republic of Croatia rather than an actual historical dictionary. For if it was a historical dictionary, it would not contain uncritical entries on certain medieval Croatian kings (like Trpimir II and Kresimir I, II &amp; III), whose very existence beyond the realm of legend is doubted by most serious historians of this region during the Middle Ages, whether in Croatia or abroad. Even more controversial is the uncritical acceptance of the theory that the pre-Ottoman era heretics of Bosnia-Herzegovina and Dalmatia were Bogumils (a heresy otherwise centered in Bulgaria). This issue is still the subject of much controversy among historians and far from settled. These are just two examples which show that the authors are not critical historians, and that they depended too heavily on a few sources for such information. Also, if this were truly a historical dictionary, there would not be insubstantial one-line entries on such important Croatian historical figures such as 19th century writers August Senoa and Antun Gustav Matos or politicians like Ante Trumbic. There is no entry at all for the very important turn-of-the-century political leader Frano Supilo, while at the same time there are entries for often obscure and sometimes laughable contemporary political figures like Hrvoje Sosic, Slavko Degoricija, Joja Ricov, Marija Peakic-Mikuljan and even the (recently assassinated) Serbian war criminal and all-around thug Arkan. In this sense, this \\"dictionary\\" even fails as a \\"who's who\\" for the contemporary political scene in Croatia - particularly since it was published five years ago and is now truly dated.	2000-10-24
US	52782589	R2NVG8V219ZHDM	0816631212	952298551	Nationalism (Concepts Social Thought)	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Solid and well-argued	The vast literature on nationalism, at least in the English language, is making the need for books like this one increasingly evident. Calhoun's aim in this text is to provide an explanation of nationalism as a historical phenomenon which is still a very active force in the world today. Perhaps his most important point, and one that tends to set him apart from most theorists on nationalism, is that there can be no general theory of nationalism, or no historical \\"master variable\\" which can explain its emergence and development. Calhoun correctly notes that it is too diverse a phenomenon to be explained so simply. He argues that nationalism is a process, a way of thinking and acting among people which results from modernity and also continually develops as a response to modernity. It is constructed within the scope of historical development, and acquires different contexts in different places and at different times. This is, of course, a greatly over-simplified summary of a very well-argued text. The only problem is that the book is often difficult to read, as Calhoun tends to engage in restricted academic jargon (e.g. nationalism is constantly referred to as a \\"discursive formation\\"). This should not dissuade readers interested in nationalism from reading this book, however. Also, the conclusion is an excellent, concise summation of Calhoun's main arguments, and can stand on its own as a definition of nationalism.	2000-10-18
US	52782589	RYU7WHLFLUDA8	0847698092	177151108	Nationalism and Territory: Constructing Group Identity in Southeastern Europe (Geographical Perspectives on the Human Past)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Thought-provoking analysis	Most working definitions of nationalism incorporate, in one way or another, the view that national identity is somehow connected to territory. But in most studies on the topic of nationalism, the whole issue of territory receives little more than this perfunctory mention. White's recent study tackles the issue of territory in national identity head on. As a geographer, he offers some unique perspectives on this often overlooked aspect of nationalism. This is quite important, since at their base, almost all nationalisms are somehow grounded on a specific physical place or places and the desire of a certain group of people to control this space in some manner. White quite plausibly argues that territoriality, i.e. the protective or possessive attitude people exhibit toward places, is probably the most vital component of nationalism, even though this is an aspect that is most oft-neglected by scholars, journalists, policy-makers, etc. when dealing with specific cases of nationalism. The author's specific emphasis is on southeastern Europe, with case studies covering Hungary, Romania and Serbia. This is a good choice, since all three of these countries and their nations provide a wealth of historical examples and all three are still \\"hot\\" areas in political terms. In addition, the fact that the territorial claims of these three nations often overlap provides an excellent illustration of White's central point on the importance of places in defining identity and the potential violence which can erupt when territorial claims clash. White brings to this argument a large number of geographical and sociological sources not usually used when discussing nationalism. However, the book does have its weaknesses. The principal shortcoming is that much of the text seems to have been hastily written in the three case studies, and much of its seems formulaic (indeed, in a few places entire paragraphs are repeated almost verbatim from chapter to chapter). Also, the overall argument putforward by the author would have been better served if he included a comparison and contrast of his case study nations and also discussed how their mutual conflicts over the same territory influenced their respective national development. Nonetheless, this book represents an important recent contribution to the literature on nationalism.	2000-10-16
US	52782589	R2YEU5FYYJZP9W	023111771X	843433286	Social Preconditions of National Revival in Europe	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Not for general readers	Hroch's text has long been a standard text for serious scholars of nationalism, and it is very academic, not meant for nor very accessible to the general reader. In this book, Hroch deals with a very specific aspect of the development of nationalism, the so-called \\"national awakening\\" period (which he refers to as \\"Phase B\\"), in a specific place, northern Europe. His research focuses specifically on the cases of Norway, Bohemia (the Czechs), Finland, Lithuania, Estonia, Flanders (the Dutch-speaking part of Belgium) and the Schleswig region (its Danish minority), and he looks for the social underpinning of nationalism by looking at the occupations and backgrounds of those who initially promoted the national idea, whom he calls \\"patriots.\\" Hroch conducted very extensive and meticulous research, and his results are quite revealing. However, the section of the book in which he details the fruits of his labors makes for excruciatingly tedious reading, even for those very interested in the subject matter. The problem with this book is that the author seems to have a difficult time integrating its exclusive focus into the broader historical phenomenon that nationalism represents. One key problem, which has been noted by other reviewers, is that he fails to explain with sufficient clarity the transitions between phases (i.e. A, B and C) in his three-level theory of the initial development of nations. Also, there seems to be moments when the author extrapolates the results of his research into \\"patriots\\" onto the wider society without sufficient explanation, so readers may find themselves asking a number of questions afterwards. To his credit, Hroch admits the limited scope of his work several times in the course of the book, but this hardly makes up for its shortcomings. Nonetheless, this book is an althogether commendable and valuable contribution to the study of nationalism, albeit one with limited appeal.	2000-10-08
US	52782589	R258DRW6UBN7VB	0340600616	499104249	Nationalism	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An exceptional primer	Out of all the books written about nations and nationalism in the past 20 or so years, this Alter's \\"Nationalism\\" has to be one of the best for use as a primary text or starting point. It is both concise and comprehensive in its analysis of the rise of nationalism as a political force first in Europe and then the rest of the world. The basic typology Alter uses is simple yet engenders a better understanding of the nationalism phenomenon. Alter's basic, and very plausible, thesis to explain nationalism's rise anywhere in the world is quite simple: generally some form of political, social or economic crisis (whether real or perceived) generally provides the impulse for peoples and their leaders to resort to and accept the particularly powerful political mythology offered by nationalism. Another very important aspect of this book is Alter's emphasis on the ease with which nationalism is merged with other political ideologies, left or right, radical or conservative, to create a very potent instrument for gaining and sustaining mass support by politicians, political parties and movements. His general conclusion is that nationalism is hardly a spent force, even if nation-states, usually the objective of nationalist movements, are beginning to be perceived as politically obsolete. In reading this book, one can see that nationalism may simply acquire different forms and different modes as the world economy and society become more globalized.	2000-10-05
US	52782589	R295W5WN042C7R	0691048266	468337697	Fantasies of Salvation	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Strong integrated analysis of post-socialist politics	\\"Fantasies of Salvation\\" is a study of political mythologies and ideologies in the post-communist countries of Central and Eastern Europe. Tismaneanu takes an integrative approach, rather than engaging in the generally common practice of considering each country separately - something which is quite commendable, and he does a very good job providing an overview of the overall political climate in this region. Even so, he concentrates most of his analysis to the Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary and Romania, while the former Soviet republics and the Balkans are covered less. Generally this book is quite valuable as it covers an area this is not generally dealt with in such a comprehensive manner. Thus, his comparative look at nationalism, anti-communism and the associated political mythologies gives readers an excellent basis for understanding political discourse throughout the region. Tismaneanu correctly points out that mythology is a common aspect of politics anywhere in the world, but his overriding thesis in this work is to show that under the circumstances of rapid transition in the post-socialist countries of Europe, such political mythologies can assume disturbingly paranoid, exclusionary and even violent forms. This is where the term \\"fantasies of salvation\\" comes from. Such fantasies are, in the author's words, \\"an irrational blend but compelling blend\\" of quasi-religious searches for salvation, egotistic nationalist self-identification and simplified utopian social doctrines. His anaylsis of natonalism in this context is illuminating, and very sobering. He notes that the troubles with economic transition have fanned the flames of xenophobia and racism not only in places like Russia and the Balkans, but even in the more \\"successful\\" countries like Hungary or the Czech Republic - although, to be sure, in the latter cases there is less cause for concern than in the former. One can apply the conclusions he draws to other parts of the world as well.<br />However,the book does have its flaws. One is that Tismaneanu excessively frets over the fate of the former dissidents, like Havel, Konrad or Michnik, who have lost quite a bit of their popularity both in their own countries and abroad. Another (and I believe key) flaw is that while he criticizes many of the political myths or fantasies in the region for, among other things, promoting a simplistic manichean world view, he falls prey to this himself in the sense that he portrays the West, liberalism and the market economy as absolutes which must be attained by all former communist societies. Rarely are the concepts of liberal democracy and capitalism discussed as political myths themselves (regardless of their validity), and Tismaneanu never even entertains the notion that grafting such idealized concepts onto the post-socialist societies may be yet another cause for their often staggering economic and social problems. This really takes away from some of the top-notch analysis in this book, for at times it seems less of a scholarly work than an ideological tract.	2000-09-30
US	52782589	R3T49UOABKUB3	0312152442	363218923	Winterkill: A Novel	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Engrossing	I basically read \\"Winterkill\\" in one sitting. It's an excellent story about fathers and sons and the family history that both brings them together and also creates walls between them. Through the principal character, Danny Kachiah, Lesley weaves an absolutely engrossing story of a contemporary Native American family. In the process, he also tells something about the nation (in this case the Nez Perce of Eastern Oregon) and its history, and how this history weighs down on its descendents. The story is never anything but believable-the characters are very realistic, and Lesley's portrayal of life among the \\"reservation Indians\\" is brutally honest. Also, there is no climatic \\"redemption\\" or catharsis or any of the other cliched conclusions that can usually be found in similar \\"family drama\\" literature. This is what makes \\"Winterkill\\" so much like real life, as it deals with slow growth and the painful ups and downs that generally mark interpersonal relations. There's not much more I can really add here, except to say that this is the best piece of fiction I've read in a long time.	2000-09-26
US	52782589	R3B9IM0TR4FPLV	0312244916	187566437	River Song	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Good follow-up to �Winterkill�	\\"River Song\\" picks up where Lesley's previous novel, \\"Winterkill,\\" left  off. Unfortunately, it's not as strong as its predecessor, since some of  the situations the characters become involved in seem a bit contrived.  Lesley seems to resort to the device of suspense to keep the story going:  early in the novel, the main character, Danny Kachiah, has a disturbing  vision which he spends much of the novel trying to figure out by visiting,  among other things, a medicine woman on the Nez Perce Reservation in Idaho.  It seems that this whole aspect of the story was added just to tie in  certain actual historical events and give the characters an excuse to  travel about the countryside in Eastern Oregon and Idaho. Also, Danny  eventually figures out where his vision took place, but Lesley never really  explains how. In the hands of a lesser writer, this would have been grounds  for tossing the book aside, but Lesley has such a talent for evoking place  and time that it's hardly noticeable while you're reading. Thus, Lesley's  engrossing style tends to gloss over these and other shortcomings, making  \\"River Song\\" a very compelling tale. The other aspect of the story, the  struggle of the Native Americans along the Columbia River to maintain their  fishing rights and thereby preserve their traditions, is handled very well.  In a very direct yet unassuming style, Lesley adeptly describes the  frustations of the River People in dealing with the U.S. government, the  local authorities, commerical fishing operations and sport fishermen and  even windsurfers. As with \\"Winterkill,\\" the characters in \\"River Song\\" are  very believable, and you often find yourself thinking about them as real  people - which attests to Lesley's talent as a top-notch writer.	2000-09-14
US	52782589	R17GVPN7S85TCP	0804725888	847506170	Beacons in the Night: With the OSS and Tito’s Partisans in Wartime Yugoslavia	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Well-written, informative	One of those books that demonstrates how reality is usually more  interesting than fiction. Lindsay's account of his activities as an OSS  operative in the former Yugoslavia during World War II is a much better  read than most Cold War spy fiction. The text is very readable and hightly  informative - not only about wartime events in Yugosalvia but also about  the policies of the Allied governments and military in dealing with them.  The book also provides a good deal of information on a topic that is  covered very little in the English language: the struggle of the Slovenian  Partisans against the Nazis. Lindsay points out that some of the first  territories liberated within the Third Reich itself were in fact in the  Slovenian provinces. Linday's observations of Tito and his senior staff  just after the end of the war are also quite revealing. The text is,  however, weaker where Lindsay does not speak about events he did not  directly witness or take part in. Thus, he often cites rather uncritically  a number of secondary sources on specific events in wartime Yugoslavia.  Even so, the book as a whole is an excellent read and a valuable source of  information on the subject and period that it covers.	2000-09-12
US	52782589	R1LHTSDPMJI3NH	1872410081	494377514	Yugoslavia: An Avoidable War	Books	1	7	34	N	N	Don�t waste your time�	...reading this book. Despite her claims of being a \\"highly experienced  specialist on international affairs\\" and something of an authority on  Yugoslavia and its political scene, the late Nora Beloff wrote a book that  is just another contribution to the vast body of propaganda on the Yugoslav  conflict published over the last ten years. One would at least expect some  new insights or arguments from this self-proclaimed specialist, but she  provides no substantial information nor background, nor does she give  readers even a perfunctory understanding of the Yugoslav wars and their  terrible consequences. Beloff seems to go out of her way to exonerate  Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic of responsibility for the crimes  committed by his regime and on behalf of the aggressive Serbian nationalism  he stirred up during the late 1980s. The grosteque Radovan Karadzic and the  Bosnian Serb Army are similarly whitewashed. On the other hand, the Bosnian  Muslims and especially the Croats (who become interchangeable with the word  \\"Ustasha\\" in the course of the book) are to blame for almost everything.  Much of the propaganda published by the Yugoslav Information Ministry is  more convincing that Beloff's mindless diatribes in this book. In his  foreward to the book, Richard Body lambasts Western commentators for  allegedly adhering to the formula \\"Bosnia and Croatia, good; Serbia, bad.\\"  All this little pamphlet does is turn the formula around: \\"Serbia, good;  Bosnia and Croatia, bad.\\" Such moronic simplicity may make good sense for  narrow-minded propaganda campaigns, but it does nothing more in reality  than foment further misunderstanding and prejudices.	2000-09-06
US	52782589	RDQLOIFPLUHHW	156584209X	163450798	Civil Wars: From L.A. to Bosnia	Books	3	10	11	N	N	A bitter pill	\\"Civil Wars\\" is something of a collection of Enzensberger's ruminations  and rantings on the state of the world on the eve of the much-heralded new  millennium. The book is divided into three parts: the first and principal  section is an essay titled \\"Civil Wars\\" in which the author takes a hard  look at the world's many conflicts and concludes that most, if not all, can  be referred to as \\"civil wars.\\" He defines the latter as any situation in  which people living at close quarters are in a state of conflict. Thus,  street gang strife in America's inner cities or the wars in Rwanda, Bosnia,  etc. can all be called civil wars. However, here Enzensberger tends to  generalize a bit much when he equates the various insurgents, rebels,  vandals, skinheads, terrorists, \\"freedom fighters,\\" etc. across the board  as perpetrators of autistic violence with no underlying ideology or cause  (when they do proclaim some ideals, Enzensberger says this is empty  rhetoric with no deep resonance or meaning). This is a bit hard to swallow,  as a case-by-case study of the belligerents in the world's various \\"civil  wars\\" would perhaps refute this thesis. Thus, he gives the impression of  someone who just raises his hands in disgust, claiming that \\"all of them\\"  are crazy, so to hell with them. Despite this, many of Enzensberger's views  are worth noting, as they are quite sobering. He points out that there is  little call for the hopes that the globalized world economy will contribute  to greater peace and prosperity for all, since the brutal economic logic of  this process will eventually make even more people throughout the world  superfluous and turn them into have-nots. And these have-nots, he adds,  will hardly join together in some sort of liberating class struggle, but  will more likely take out their frustrations on each other, which is  already the defining mark of the type of conflicts Enzensberger discusses  in this book.<br />Another particularly interesting part of the book is the  short section on Europe in the immediate aftermath of the Second World War.  Enzensberger cites the observations of several largely forgotten observers  (mainly Americans), who painted a grim picture of Europe. The purpose of  this section is to remind Europeans that only a few decades ago their  prosperous continent was as devastated and destitute as any of the  \\"underdeveloped\\" regions whose immigrants they so fear today. The essential  point of this entire book is to warn people, nations and governments to  take care of their own problems at home, their own \\"civil wars,\\" before  becoming involved in those of others. Although this is basically a call for  a new form of isolationism, it tends to make sense - just because most of  today's foreign interventions, despite the real motivations, are cloaked in  a veneer of pious moralism which is nothing short of hypocrisy.	2000-09-01
US	52782589	RQ5EOVIMEXXYS	0393317552	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	3	13	18	N	N	Worth the read, despite everything	Many of the criticisms of Diamond's book among the 250+ reviews below  correctly point out its many flaws: the short shrift given to cultural  factors, the over-emphasis on the regions with which the author is most  familiar (e.g. New Guinea, Polynesia), sweeping and often unsupported  generalizations, repititions in the body of the text, etc. However,  overriding thesis on the vital importance of biological and  geographic/geological factors in shaping the broad course of human history  is a valid one and he argues it quite plausibly. The only problem is that  Diamond's arguments begin to falter as he gets closer to the modern era,  which is his own fault for not conducting the necessary research and  thinking his basic ideas over more thoroughly. However, perhaps the most  important aspect of \\"Guns, Germs and Steel\\" lies in the public response to  it (as seen both on this public reviews page and in the U.S. as a whole,  where it was a bestseller and Pulitzer Prize winner), as people were  essentially surprised at having human history presented in such a manner.  This despite the fact that many of Diamond's basic points are hardly  original, and specific aspects of his argument have been brought up and  explained in much greater detail by other historians, anthropologists,  etc., as even the most superficial glance at Diamond's own bibliography  shows. This is indicative: in the U.S. at least, the basic impact of  biogeographical factors on human history is hardly ever discussed in any  depth (if at all) in high school and university \\"Western Civ\\"  courses-either in lectures or in the textbooks. In this sense, Diamond's  book is an excellent supplement to any study of world history, although it  should be read critically.	2000-08-31
US	52782589	R19W70PDJBARSI	1859841945	190057081	Faces of Nationalism: Janus Revisited	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Original take on the theory of nationalism	Nairn is one of the leading theorists of nationalism in the  English-speaking world, and this book is a comprehensive collection of his  thoughts on the subject. Actually a collection of his articles from various  journals and newspapers, the book covers most of the vital aspects of  nationalism theory today. Nairn's most interesting, and original,  conception of nationalism is that it is not a by-product of  industrialization (a view widely held by many contemporary social  scientists) but rather the very essence of modernity. He argues that  nationalism has been and to some extent still is all about creating the  social cohesion which makes possible industrialization and economic  progress. In this vein, he believes nationalism should not be criticized  across-the-board as a negative or anti-progressive phenomenon as it can  still act as an agent of emancipation and development for many of the  world's oppressed or downtrodden populations. However, Nairn does not make  the mistake of tying nationalism exclusively to development, as he  correctly observes that it emerges in many essentially rural societies as a  potent social/political force-indeed the outward expression of many  nationalisms, from the \\"classic\\" nationalisms of 19th century Europe to the  most modern is a kitschy fetishization of rural, \\"folk\\" traditions. Thus,  Nairn sees nationalism as the result of the still ongoing transition from  rural to urban, and as the essential means for many to deal with modernity.  Of course, this is a very simplified summary of Nairn's complex theory, and  it perhaps makes him look too much like a proponent of the savage violence  committed on behalf of the nation, which he is not. Although one can  dispute Nairn's views on the nature of nationalism, one thing he makes  quite clear is that nationalism is a fixed aspect of modern politics,  economics and society which, for better or worse, cannot be wished away by  some sort of idealistic yet unrealistic internationalism or  cosmopolitanism. \\"Faces of Nationalism\\" is a very important contribution to  the study of nationalism and a must-read for anyone interested in  increasing their knowledge of the topic. However, it should only be read  after studying the works of the other major theorists of nationalism today  (i.e. Gellner, Anthony Smith, B. Anderson, L. Greenfeld, etc.) simply  because Nairn builds on many of their arguments and also engages in  polemics with them.	2000-08-29
US	52782589	R33FSMPTREOSV3	1570610185	81181740	Phantom Waters: Northwest Legends of Rivers, Lakes, and Shores	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Phantom theme	This is a relatively nice collection of short stories from the Pacific Northwest, from Native American myths to more recent legends. On their own, most of the stories are interesting, with a few that are really captivating  and compelling. However, since Salmonson took the literary license to  re-work most of them, she could have done a better job in creating some  kind of common tread between them all. Thus, the book is a bit  dissappointing. The most interesting part are the notes and commentaries at  the end which provide some background on the various myths and legends  Salmonson used to write the book.	2000-08-01
US	52782589	RKP3WBZLJFFH6	0826406831	312006579	Yugoslavian Inferno: Ethnoreligious Warfare in the Balkans (History and Politics in the 20th Century: Bloomsbury Academic)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Weak at places, interesting at others	This book is somewhat flawed in that the author dwells a little too much on the religious aspect of the wars in the former Yugoslavia. However, he is quite correct in pointing out the culpability of religious leaders among  the Serbs, Croats, Bosnian Muslims and others in fomenting mutual  intolerance. Another problem is that his conclusions about how to create a  lasting solution to the conflicts (massive Western intervention, basically)  seem a bit naive given the record of outside involvement (from the UN to  NATO). The historical analysis is also a bit weak. More interesting are the  author's insights and opinions of the various Yugoslav peoples, because he  speaks from the point of view of an insider, i.e. as someone born and  raised in Yugoslavia. Thus, readers can get something of an idea of how the  various ex-Yugoslav peoples view each other's nationalisms - because Mojzes  is equally critical of all nationalisms in the former Yugoslavia. This  makes \\"Yugoslavian Inferno\\" an interesting supplement to the literature on  the former Yugoslavia, despite its obvious flaws.	2000-07-31
US	52782589	R19DST817OL0VA	0486406555	559841412	Main Street (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Outstanding work of literature	\\"Main Street\\" is simply an excellent novel that can be enjoyed at many levels. To some extent it can be seen as a historical account of life in small-town America in the early decades of the 20th century. Lewis does a  commendable job of portraying the conservatism and prejudices of the rural  town: their prejudices against immigrants and their mistrust of labor and  farmers' collective movements, or anything that may lead to \\"socialism.\\"  Additionally, Lewis's fictional town of Gopher Prairie can also be seen as  the prototype for any American small town, rural village or suburb and  simultaneously a critique of rural and/or middle class society in America  -- with its often narrow-minded attitudes and smug complacency -- which is  still relevant today. \\"Main Street\\" is, however, first and foremost a work  of literature, which tells the story of a young woman, Carol Kennicott, who  has to come to grips with life in this small town, whether she likes it or  not. Through Carol, Lewis shows how a small, enclosed community influences  and molds even those who are intent on changing it, or at least resisting  it. Carol thus becomes a poignant symbol of the compromises and  rationalizations people are often forced to make in order to deal with the  realities of a life that did not turn out as planned.	2000-07-28
US	52782589	R3U3CJQNSYLQC5	0140187510	291864880	To a God Unknown (Penguin Classics)	Books	1	9	16	N	N	Disappointing	Steinbeck seemed to be trying to do too much with this novel. After a really good start, with the typically magnificent descriptions of the Californian countryside one can expect from Steinbeck, the story seems to  lose its way. The chief protagonist's struggle to become the lord of his  farmland eventually becomes uninteresting, and even the potentially  interesting leitmotiv of earthy paganism vs. otherworldly Christianity is  handled too superficially to draw the reader's attention. The primary  reason for the novel's failure as a literary work is the very stiff and  unnatural dialogue among the various characters, which is something very  unusual for Steinbeck (one only has to recall the completely natural and  believable characters in novels like \\"The Grapes of Wrath,\\" \\"Winter of Our  Discontent,\\" or \\"Cannery Row\\"). Since the the main themes of \\"To a God  Unknown,\\" i.e. rural California, man's struggle with and against nature,  etc., were so near and dear to Steinbeck, it just fails to live up to  expectations. Given the high quality of Steinbeck's many other literary  masterpieces, this novel is a great disappointment.	2000-07-27
US	52782589	RU7KK9RSBIM7J	0679776621	209785453	The Coming Conflict with China	Books	1	20	32	N	N	Huntington's children on the march	Not at all informative, this book seems to have taken its cue from Huntington's &quot;Clash of Civilizations&quot; theory: the authors construct a model for the future U.S.-China confrontation that they almost  seem to hope will come about. Although nestled in scholarly language and  presented as the views of experts on China, most of the argument seems  based more on stereotypes and American paranoia than any actual fact. Also  annoying is the authors' assumption of the general benignity of U.S. policy  in Asia; it never occurs to them to question the designs of U.S.  policy-makers and businesses in the region...	2000-07-15
US	52782589	R35A86IO2QTWJL	0486406555	559841412	Main Street (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	0	3	N	N	Outstanding work of U.S. literature	\\"Main Street\\" is simply an excellent novel that can be enjoyed at many  levels. To some extent it can be seen as a historical account of life in  small-town America in the early decades of the 20th century. Lewis does a  commendable job of portraying the conservatism and prejudices of the rural  town: their prejudices against immigrants and their mistrust of labor and  farmers' collective movements, or anything that may lead to \\"socialism.\\"  Additionally, Lewis's fictional town of Gopher Prairie can also be seen as  the prototype for any American small town, rural village or suburb and  simultaneously a critique of rural and/or middle class society in America  -- with its often narrow-minded attitudes and smug complacency -- which is  still relevant today. \\"Main Street\\" is, however, first and foremost a work  of literature, which tells the story of a young woman, Carol Kennicott, who  has to come to grips with life in this small town, whether she likes it or  not. Through Carol, Lewis shows how a small, enclosed community influences  and molds even those who seem committed to changing it. Carol thus becomes  a poignant symbol of the compromises and rationalizations people are often  forced to make in order to deal with the realities of a life that did not  turn out as planned.	2000-07-12
US	52782589	RWNRXB9YJCAZF	0871137690	162983117	My War Gone By, I Miss It So	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Compelling	Loyd's account here is very personal and at times very moving. The fact that he is so candid about his own \\"addiction\\" to seeing war and witnessing violence first hand (as well as his heroin addiction) is what makes this  such a compelling read. He is also one of the the few, if not only,  correspondents to be posted in the Balkans who willingly admits that he was  something of a war tourist and a voyeur, viewing the suffering of others  secure in the knowledge that he could leave any time. Generally Loyd's book  is also free of the often sanctimonious moralizing found in accounts  written by Glenny, Reiff, Vulliamy, Bell and scores of others. I can't  think of any specific reason why this book is such a good read; it just is.  Read it.	2000-07-07
US	52782589	R36EMRNVC09VO6	0811213064	51695532	On the Edge of Reason (Revived Modern Classic)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A classic by one of the world�s great authors	It's unfortunate that so little of Krleza's work has been translated into English. He was among the better writers of the 20th century. \\"On the Edge of Reason\\" is an excellent introduction to his work. In this scathing  condemnation of the bourgeoisie as Krleza knew it in the last days of the  Habsburg Monarchy and interwar Croatia, he describes the downfall of a man  for simply speaking his mind. His unnamed protagonist finds himself  unwillingly fighting a losing battle against the hypocrisy and  self-righteous complacency of the establishment and polite society in a  \\"provincial backwater.\\" I see the reviewers below spent a lot of time  comparing Krleza to various other great European authors, although in this  book especially his theme much more recalls Sinclair Lewis and his  unsparing critique of rural, provincial America in \\"Main Street.\\"  Regardless, this is an excellent book, still fresh and relevant today as it  was over 60 years ago when it was first published.	2000-07-05
US	52782589	R34WLCZXES0ES2	0140188479	738503075	Black Lamb and Grey Falcon: A Journey Through Yugoslavia (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	2	37	58	N	N	Biased, long-winded, only sometimes helpful	It amazes me that \\"Black Lamb and Grey Falcon\\" is still being read by people to inform themselves about the former Yugoslavia. It's not that the book lacks merit, but this value mainly lies in a number of West's keen  observations of Yugoslav politics and society during the late 1930s and in  the large number of interesting statements made by the people she met and  associated with. Thus, it can be used as something of a supplement for the  study of South Slav society in a given historical period--the 1930s  (although cautiously, as West is notoriously biased). Also, her forays into  (mainly) Serbian history contain a number of fascinating anecdotes, even if  her general presentation leaves something to be desired. The key problem  with \\"Black Lamb\\" is that it is also a very prejudiced text: West has her  obvious favorites among the Yugoslav peoples, and her anti-Germanism  sometimes borders on racism. This is understandable given that she wrote  the book as Nazi Germany was attacking England, but it seriously taints  many of her general conclusions about Germany and the Germans and their  role in Central Europe. Additionally, although her most frequent criticism  of the Germans is their allegedly irrational hatred of the Slavs, her own  views are imbued with a patronizing fetishization of the Slavs that is only  a little better than this apparent German animosity. West also spends a  good deal of time bemoaning the horrible consequences of \\"Turkish\\" (i.e.  Ottoman) rule in the Balkans, even though the Ottoman presence in this  region had many positive as well as negative aspects. This, together with  West's excessively lengthy, opinionated and often mind-numbing lectures on  art, architecture, politics, philosophy and her skewed presentations of  history (this is in fact why a book about a six-week tour of Yugoslavia  meanders on for well over 1,000 pages) truly make this a poor source for  general information on the Yugoslav peoples. Unfortunately, because it isstill so widely read for precisely this reason (especially after it was  re-popularized by Robert Kaplan in his equally flawed \\"Balkan Ghosts\\") and,  somewhat inexplicably, because many serious Balkan scholars still include  it in their bibliographies and reading lists, \\"Black Lamb and Grey Falcon\\"  is something of an unavoidable text for anyone really interested in the  former Yugoslavia. My point is simply that this book should not become the  foundation for anyone's knowledge or study of this topic.	2000-07-05
US	52782589	R39O4XW05JXFIJ	0890967601	478395922	Serbia's Secret War: Propaganda and the Deceit of History (Eugenia & Hugh M. Stewart '26 Series)	Books	3	7	22	N	N	Interesting facts, not always completely obje	The author conducted a great deal of meticulous research to shed light on an under-researched area: Serbian anti-Semitism and Nazi collaboration. As such, \\"Serbia's Secret War\\" provides a wealth of information both to the  general reader and more serious students of the former Yugoslavia. However,  just the fact that this book appeared in the 1990s in the wake of the wars  in Croatia and Bosnia makes it seem like a contribution to the propaganda  war among the Serbs, Croats and Bosnians and their various sympathizers  abroad. Often this propaganda has involved diatribes about the various  atrocities committed by members of one or more of these nations during  World War II, which is then projected onto the current situation. To his  credit, Cohen does try to avoid such polemics, but his very treatment of  the interwar and W.W.II period in Yugoslavia sometimes falls prey to a  certain bias. Thus, there are some sections of the book which seem to take  a very heavy-handed view of Serbian complicity for crimes against Jews and  others during the Second World War, while downplaying (but by no means  denying) those committed by the Croats. Even so, this book is worth  reading, and particular attention should be paid to the writer's sources,  because the most revealing and essential aspect of Cohen's text is the fact  that far from being free of anti-Semitism (which Serbian propagandists  often claim), Serbia was just as susceptible to this form of racism as any  other Central and Southeast European people.	2000-07-04
US	52782589	R3RT7N5N2HIX3H	0890966389	961262590	Genocide in Bosnia: The Policy of "Ethnic Cleansing" (Eastern European Studies, No. 1)	Books	4	5	8	N	N	A good general source	Cigar's \\"Genocide in Bosnia\\" is a commendable analysis of the political developments, primarily in Serbia, which eventually made possible the atrocities committed in Bosnia, and of the equivocation and general  impotence of Western Europe and America in the early phases of the war.  Cigar unambiguously takes the view that genocide was in fact committed in  Bosnia, first and primarily by the Serbian forces and later by the Croats,  and he backs up this argument with a great deal of meticulous research.  Cigar's crucial point is that creating the political atmosphere which made  it possible for a large number of people to accept what were generally  genocidal actions was a top-down process, initiated and fomented by  political leaders such as Milosevic (and later Croatia's Tudjman) who found  that vitriolic and virulent nationalism was useful means to cement their  hold on power. This, of course, flies in the face of the oft-repeated view  of conflict fueled by irrational \\"ancient ethnic hatreds\\" proffered by  spineless politicians and Balkan \\"experts.\\" The truth was (and is) that the  dubious concept of historical memory was simply a political tool to  generate and maintain mass support. Perhaps Cigar can be criticized for  having an excessively pro-Muslim bias, but regardless of what one thinks of  individual Muslims political or military leaders, the Bosnian Muslims, and  all of those (Muslim, Croat or Serb) who wanted a unified multiethnic  Bosnia, were by far the primary victims of the war. My principal criticism  is that Cigar overplays the extent of opposition and criticism to the  Croat-Muslim conflict and official Croatian policy toward Bosnia in general  among certain groups and institutions in Croatia (while at the same time  downplaying such opposition in Serbia). Particularly questionable is  Cigar's example of the Catholic Church as a source of opposition to  Tudjman's policies in Croatia. While many in the Church hierarchy did make  guarded public protests, much of the Church's rank-and-file passively or  actively supported Tudjman's nationalist policies (this was very much the  case in Herzegovina). Also, the last few chapters, in which Cigar discusses  prospects for the future and dwells on junctions where different policy  actions could have been taken are both dated (the book was published in  1995 before the key turning points in both Croatia and Bosnia that year)  and engage in too much pointless speculation.	2000-07-01
US	52782589	RLLM6R0FFEVQJ	0890967601	478395922	Serbia's Secret War: Propaganda and the Deceit of History (Eugenia & Hugh M. Stewart '26 Series)	Books	3	13	28	N	N	Interesting facts, not always completely objective	The author conducted a great deal of meticulous research to shed light on an under-researched area: Serbian anti-Semitism and Nazi collaboration. As such, \\"Serbia's Secret War\\" provides a wealth of information both to the  general reader and more serious students of the former Yugoslavia. However,  just the fact that this book appeared in the 1990s in the wake of the wars  in Croatia and Bosnia makes it seem like a contribution to the propaganda  war among the Serbs, Croats and Bosnians and their various sympathizers  abroad. Often this propaganda has involved diatribes about the various  atrocities committed by members of one or more of these nations during  World War II, which is then projected onto the current situation. To his  credit, Cohen does try to avoid such polemics, but his very treatment of  the interwar and W.W.II period in Yugoslavia sometimes falls prey to a  certain bias. Thus, there are some sections of the book which seem to take  a very heavy-handed view of Serbian complicity for crimes against Jews and  others during the Second World War, while downplaying (but by no means  denying) those committed by the Croats. Even so, this book is worth  reading, and particular attention should be paid to the writer's sources,  because the most revealing and essential aspect of Cohen's text is the fact  that far from being free of anti-Semitism (which Serbian propagandists  often claim), Serbia was just as susceptible to this form of racism as any  other Central and Southeast European people.	2000-06-28
US	52782589	R3USUP1HT4NFDW	0140260714	943076521	Sarajevo Marlboro	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Astounding, outstanding	Literally dozens upon dozens of books have been written on the war in Bosnia and the break-up of Yugoslavia by journalists, scholars, diplomats, politicians, etc. both from the former Yugoslavia itself and abroad.  However, hardly any of them shed as much light on the war in Bosnia (and,  by extension, the recent tragic events throughout former Yugoslavia) as  this slim volume. Jergovic has made an art-form of capturing so much  feeling, passion and depth in such incredibly short stories. \\"Sarajevo  Marlboro\\" can definitely be ranked among the great world literature of the  last few decades. This is an outstanding book - read it by all means.	2000-06-10
US	52782589	R2ICB5N9WVBE51	0231113811	238243698	The Politics of Serbia in the 1990s	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Incomplete	Given the immense amount of research and effort the author put into this book, I'd like to give it a more positive evaluation. This is a very detailed, almost exhaustive account of Serbian political events and  conflicts during the 1990s (up to mid-1998). In many ways it serves as a  useful reference guide - but only for those already familiar with the  complexities of politics in the former Yugoslavia. This is perhaps the  book's central flaw: it seems to assume that readers will already have a  handle on events and politics in Yugoslavia as a whole during the late  1980s, as well as the wartime events during the early 1990s in Croatia and  Bosnia-Herzegovina, so that the author just rambles on about the political  tug-of-war going on among various Serbian politicians and political  parties. At times Thomas spends too much time discussing the squabbles  between the leaders of Serbia's largely ineffective opposition parties,  while ignoring the overall political, social and economic situation in  Serbia. Thus there is little discussion of the growth of organized crime as  the Serbian economy flagged under the burden of international sanctions  nor, crucially, of the ensuing close ties and collaboration between mob  leaders and the political elite. Also, and quite strangely, there is  relatively little discussion or in-depth analysis of perhaps the most  important figure in Serbian politics for the last fifteen years: Slobodan  Milosevic. Other than some very general analysis in his introduction and  conclusion, Milosevic is otherwise treated by Thomas as some sort of gray  eminence of Serbian politics, always pulling the levers, but rarely seen.  Therefore, this book is disappointing in many ways. One can only hope that  if the author decides to do a revised edition to cover the events of 1999  (the Kosovo crisis and the NATO air strikes) he will also thoroughly rework  the entire text.	2000-06-09
US	52782589	R1IXV4Y6ALN2BU	0312122764	795882818	Contemporary Nationalism in East Central Europe	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Informative to a certain degree	Since this book contains contributions from a number of auhtors, the quality varies. Most of them, dealing with the nationalist development and politics in individual East Central European countries, are informative as  they provide some essential historical data. The best of these is Martyn  Rady's excellent review and analysis of nationalism as a tool for  consolidating power in Ceausescu's Romania. Also very interesting is the  piece by Raymond Pearson which deals with the role of war in developing  nationalist sentiments, particularly in its violent role in changing  demographic and geopolitical realities. On the other hand, the contribution  by John Lampe on Yugoslavia is somewhat superficial and actually contains  several factual errors; Rebecca Ann Haynes' article on Hungarian  nationalism also similarly seems to lack focus and depth. Thus, although  this book provides some much-needed updated analysis of an important topic,  nationalism, for a troubled region, it cannot be the sole, or even  principal, source on this subject matter for this area.	2000-06-08
US	52782589	R1DVC19GLSV9ZX	0816629471	988968140	Ethnic Nationalism: The Tragic Death of Yugoslavia	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Passionate, usparing	Despite its title, Denitch's analysis of the Yugoslav collapse is not so much a study of ethnic nationalism as such as it is a thorough, passionate and often personal look into the causes and consequences of Yugoslavia's  break-up. Since he was a citizen of Yugoslavia, and also actively involved  to some extent in the political events of the early 1990s, Denitch  generally discards with the customary cold, academic aloofness and feigned  impartiality and tells the reader squarely where he stands on issues such  as nationalism, the war in Yugoslavia, the events that led to the country's  destruction, etc. This makes the text all the more interesting, as he  offers very fascinating, if not sometimes controversial, views and insights  into recent Yugoslav history and the ethic politics which hold sway in the  Yugoslav successor states. His analysis of Yugoslavia's failure to progress  into a pluralist democracy, despite being THE European socialist state most  likely to do so in the late 1980s, is very interesting: he notes that the  fatal flaw made by Tito and the ruling communists was to decentralize the  country's decision-making processes rather than democratizing its political  scene. His opinion of nationalism is, needless to say, very disparaging,  and his intent in this book is to warn that ethnic nationalism and identity  politics in today's world are an enemy to democracy everywhere, not just in  the former Yugoslavia or the formerly communist Eastern Europe, but  throughout the world, including the developed, allegedly rational and  post-nationalist West. Regardless of what one thinks of Denitch's  standpoint, this is definitely an important book to read for a better  understanding of Yugoslavia's break-up and the problems that still plague  the region today.	2000-06-05
US	52782589	R3J7CPER6QUDRV	0872863298	673466125	Blackshirts and Reds: Rational Fascism and the Overthrow of Communism	Books	2	11	26	N	N	Vital facts &amp; arguments, although somewhat disappointing	If nothing else, Parenti's book provokes a number of interesting and important questions. Parenti is an uncompromising Marxist, and he adeptly shows the freshness, validity and relevance of Marxist analysis when studying contemporary events. However, this book suffers from a lack of focus. First he goes into an interesting historical overview of fascism in Europe, and notes how integrally tied such movements were to the traditional conservative right (something all too often glossed over in many subsequent histories of fascism's heyday). He then looks at communist systems and refutes many of the misconceptions which were widely held about them in the West - even though this includes some unnecessary and rather disturbing apologies for the brutality of Stalinism. He provides his own unsparing critique of the former communist systems of Eastern Europe and the reasons for their fall. He also tells why the world should not generally rejoice at the complete predominance of global capitalism and non-accountable organizations like the WTO, which herald more exploitation of Third World workers (and not just them) and, perhaps more importantly, the devastating ramifications for the environment. Unfortunately, Parenti does not really give any ideas on how a revolutionary, worker-based, socially just system can survive in the modern world of rising global capitalism. In a text that begs for some sort of proposals for future solutions and alternatives to untrammeled capitalism, his conclusions are rather vague and unsatisfying. Perhaps this is not necessarily the author's fault, as it's just a reflection of the fact that no real alternatives seem feasible, at least not from the strict Marxist/communist point of view.	2000-05-31
US	52782589	R12L5ZOST6QSH8	0932885128	758472089	The Muslims of Bosnia-Herzegovina: Their Historic Development from the Middle Ages to the Dissolution of Yugoslavia, Second Edition (Harvard Middle Eastern Monographs)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Generally useful	This is a collection of articles that cover the entire span of the history of the Bosnian Muslims, although the quality of the individual contributions varies greatly. The first three articles, which go from the  Middle Ages to 1878, are unfortunately uninformative and even tedious for  anyone who has already done some reading on general Balkan history, and  probably confusing and perhaps overwhelming for those who have no previous  knowledge in this field. By far the best piece is the article by this  volume's editor, Mark Pinson, which covers the period of Austro-Hungarian  rule in Bosnia-Herzegovina (1878-1918) and its effects on the Muslim  community. This was in fact a very crucial period for the Bosnian Muslims,  because as Pinson points out, it was when they first became a politically  aware as a community, and began to seek new ways to articulate their needs.  The final article by Ivo Banac, which covers the twentieth century, is a  good survey of Bosnian Muslim political history, but it lacks depth, which  is disappointing given the importance of this period for understanding  events in Bosnia today. There is also a useful, if somewhat dated, appendix  for finding further resources on Bosnia, both in print and on the Web. This  book is, thus, a generally useful reference source, but it could and should  have been something much more.	2000-05-27
US	52782589	R1ICP6BV3ZEVFP	0231101619	335272249	Bosnia and Hercegovina: A Tradition Betrayed	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Dated, but still good	Since this book was written with the express intent of being a short historical survey menat to clearly and concisely refute a number of widely-held misconceptions about Bosnia and the Bosnian Muslims, I find of  the criticisms below (that the book is insubstantial, does not contain  enough facts, etc.) misplaced. For those who want more detail, the authors  thoughtfully provided a \\"further reading\\" list at the end of the book.  Otherwise, Donia and Fine have done a commendable job of summarizing  Bosnia's complicated history, as well as clarifying the origins of the  Bosnian Muslims. Perhaps the book can be faulted for being overly  passionate in its arguments in support of the much-contested specific  Bosnian national identity, but the authros were writing under the influence  of the often incorrect characterization of Bosnian society that was being  presented by much of the media (both ex-Yugoslav and international) during  the early 1990s. Alhtough a strong case can be made for the existence ofa  distinct Bosnian national character, the communal bonds between the  country's three main groups (Muslim, Croat and Serb) and between the more  cosmopolitan cities and the surrounding rural communities, were not strong  enough at the time the war broke out to hold Bosnian society together. This  is the tragedy of Bosnia-Herzegovina, and the authors did much to explain  this. Despite the book's summary of the war being dated by subsequent  events (it was published in 1994, before the signing of the Dayton  Accords), it is still a much better source of information on Bosnia and its  tragic war than much of the clap-trap written on the former Yugoslavia  (i.e. books by Misha Glenny or Robert Kaplan) that is still being widely  read and recommended even today.	2000-05-25
US	52782589	R2NK4KU8VZXB2O	087595202X	715630251	That Balance So Rare: The Story of Oregon	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent Summary of Oregon History	\\"That Balance So Rare\\" is a perfect introduction to the history of Oregon. It can be used as a good general reference for scholars who need a starting point to further their knowledge of this State and region, even though it  is accessible to all, and to readers of all ages. The well-written,  informative and often humorous text is accompanied by dozens of lovely  photographs and illustrations which really evoke Oregon's colorful past.  O'Donnell focuses on the nineteenth and early twentieth century, as he  correctly sees this period as the time when the political, economic and  social features of modern Oregon were essentially defined. Also commendable  is his treatment of the local Native Americans, who were pushed from their  \\"garden of Eden\\" by successive waves of white settlement. Recommended  reading for Oregon natives and anyone interested in learning more about  this beautiful Pacific Northwest state.	2000-05-21
US	52782589	RXSBRHV5XO1HE	006101351X	637283524	The Perfect Storm: A True Story of Men Against the Sea	Books	1	22	36	N	N	Unfocused	I read this book on a flight from the U.S. to Europe to avoid watching some silly Julia Roberts movie. Too bad I have trouble sleeping on airplanes. This book has its interesting moments, but generally the author  seems unaware of where he wants to put his emphasis. Initially, it starts  out as the story of the crew of a fishing boat that gets caught in this  killer storm in the north Atlantic. But Junger lacked enough material and,  I think, insight to make the crew's plight and then disappearance  compelling (I got the impression that he was trying to recreate the feel of  Krakauer's \\"Into the Wild\\"). That's why his story line eventually fades  into the background as he starts to recount some amazing rescues at sea  during the same storm, which are generally more interesting than the book's  central theme. Also, the text suffers from some often tedious explanations  of things like wind classifications, which aren't uninteresting in and of  themselves, but Junger fails to smoothly integrate such items into his  narrative. This story of \\"the perfect storm\\" could have been very gripping,  if only the author knew how to approach it.	2000-05-11
US	52782589	R7J017TADXPCU	0415122945	764612349	Genocide after Emotion: The Post-Emotional Balkan War	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Uneven	Since this book is a compilation of articles by a number of authors, its overall quality is necessarily unbalanced: some contributions are much better than others. Really the most interesting piece is by the book's  editor, Mestrovic, who wrote the introduction (and the epilogue). In it he  introduces the concepts of &quot;postemotionalism,&quot; which roughly  refers to the concept of viewing current events through the prism of  emotionally-charged events, and even misconceptions, of the past. In the  specific case of the Balkan Wars of the 1990s, this means the widespread  practice of viewing the current wars through the prism of World War II  events in Yugoslavia. This, Mestrovic and several other authors imply, led  to the de facto support of the Serbian side (who they view as the primary  aggressors in the current wars) on the part of the international community.  However, after Mestrovic's introduction, the other chapters are generally  not as strong, or interesting. Those written by Philip Cohen, Norman Cigar  and James Sadkovich--all dealing with the wartime events and media coverage  of 1990-1992, are actually dated since their conclusions and predictions  have generally been contradicted by subsequent events. The Sadkovich piece  is also a bit tedious, as he meticulously details and criticizes American  media coverage without offering much in the way of analysis. The text is  also riddled with footnotes (of which there are 17 pages for a less than  30-page article). Since this book was published in 1996, it's surprising  that the editor didn't ask the authors of these pieces to update them. Also  of interest is the contribution by sociologist Slaven Letica, who reviews  the development of nationalism among the Serbs during the 1980s from a  psychological aspect. Despite the pretentious and jargon-filled  introduction, it provides some good insight into the immediate reasons  behind the conflict in Yugoslavia. All in all, the book is interesting  because itoffers a point of view that differs from that generally  presented by the Western media, and Mestrovic's &quot;postemotional&quot;  concept seems quite valid. However, at places the criticism of Serbian  culpability is excessive, while there is also some unnecessary exculpation  of Croatian actions. However, as criticism of Western, and especially  American, attitudes and responses to the Balkan Wars, the book is often  right on the mark.	2000-05-10
US	52782589	RTVJP50CDRAKF	0415087554	816898567	The Balkanization of the West: The Confluence of Postmodernism and Postcommunism	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Original, provocative	In this work, sociologist Stjepan Mestrovic continues some of the basic arguments he began in two previous books, &quot;The Road From Paradise&quot; and &quot;Habits of the Balkan Heart&quot; (both co-written with Slaven Letica and Miroslav Goreta). The basic underlying theme of this book, like the previous two, is that the ideas of sociologist Emile Durkheim have to be re-evaluated and applied to help explain contemporary political phenomena. In this, he emphasizes Durkheim's views of tradition, culture and religion as keys to understanding the behavior of all societies, while the particular focus in this book is the former communist countries and, obviously, the Balkans, as well as the West's reaction to the events here. Mestrovic uses sociological and psychological methods to explain events in post-communist Europe and the various Western responses and actions, which he claims are based on excessive reliance on Enlightenment-based rationalism and essentially Marxist dialectics which focus almost exclusively on economic criteria. In this sense, the book is fascinating and provocative; one doesn't have to agree with the author to be intrigued by his views and arguments. In some instances, they are quite accurate, e.g. when he points out the failure of Western governments and financial consultants to take into account deep-rooted cultural difference when pushing for drastic economic change (&quot;shock therapy&quot;) in formerly communist countries. Mestrovic correctly points out that this has had and will continue to have disastrous consequences. However, in tackling such a large topic, the author does run into some contradictions which he fails to resolve (there's hardly enough room in such a review to go over them) and he often uses questionable sources to back his arguments (e.g. citing morally dubious political figures like the late Richard Nixon or Margaret Thatcher, or needlessly defending the &quot;scholarly&quot; work of the late Croatian President Franjo Tudjman). Even so, this is by far the author's strongest and best-organized book on this topic, and well worth reading.	2000-05-09
US	52782589	RUNLMO3GWBUWZ	0813118271	91226831	Road from Paradise	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A lot of food for thought	This book is, among other things, an interesting and at times commendable effort to introduce, or re-introduce, the thought of Durkheim, Schopenauer, Freud and Fromm, among others, to contemporary analysis of world events.  They also try to revive appreciation for the late Croatian sociologist  Dinko Tomasic, who had already analyzed Soviet and communist Europe's  society in terms of social character, rather than ideology, during the  1950s (which did not fit into the accepted Cold War mentality of the time).  Much of the argument offered by the authors is intended to serve as a  counter to the widely-proclaimed &quot;end of history&quot; optimism so  widespread in the Western during the early 1990s (as personified by Francis  Fukuyama). In this, the authors follow Durkheim's methods and definitions  to explain political and social events, i.e. by pointing out that people  cannot be expected to behave according to thought theories and economic  models, but that much of their behavior has to do with traditions, rooted  in culturally determined factors and morality. Here the most interesting  aspect is that the authors note the modernity of nationalism, as opposed to  the general view by both Western liberals and Marxists that it is  essentially a primitive or tribal anachronism. However, this leads to one  of the book's primary contradictions, which the authors never quite  resolve: on the one hand, they say, following Durkheim's lead, that the  nation is a positive social force which &quot;offsets the power of the  State,&quot; while simultaneously observing that many of the problems in  former communist countries are related to a resurgence of nationalism,  particularism and a return to tradition after the failure of the grand  modernist State-driven socialist project, i.e. problems that would seem to  call for some kind of new State intervention. This book is very interesting  and original in terms of the new ways it proposes for viewing politics and  society, butthe authors fail to develop and refine their arguments  sufficiently.	2000-05-08
US	52782589	R2WFU7Q4DGJQO4	0890965935	684918403	Habits of the Balkan Heart: Social Character and the Fall of Communism	Books	2	5	5	N	N	Interesting at places, often poorly argued	This book seems to be a supplement to the earlier &quot;Road From Paradise,&quot; written by the same authors. In it they continue their analysis of events in post-communist countries, especially in the former  Yugoslavia during the Balkan wars. They also continue, somewhat needlessly,  their bashing of Francis Fukuyama's &quot;end of history&quot; theory.  While I agree that Fukuyama's silly views deserve every criticism, in this  book they beat the point to death. It's not like they were the first and  only persons to recognize the weaknesses and frequent contradictions in  Fukuyama's arguments. In general, this book seems to have been hastily  written, and the authors did not take time to refine their ideas and  bolster their arguments. In addition, they did not do a good job of  proofing and editing their own text, as the text is often repetitive (e.g.  on p. 28 they say: &quot;Until recently, Western analysts have tended to  display a modernist, globalizing tendency to refer to one USSR, one  Yugoslavia, one United States - even one world.&quot; Then a few pages  later: &quot;For a long time, convention has made one used to thinking of  one America, one Yugoslavia and even one Soviet Union&quot;). Also, this  careless and hasty writing style led to the inclusion of something I can  only hope is a gross error on p. 142: the authors say that Serbia is the  &quot;only European nation&quot; to use the Cyrillic alphabet (what about  Russia, Ukraine, Bulgaria, etc.?) which they refer to as, quite  unbelievably, &quot;outmoded.&quot; Statements like these, along with their  excessively dwelling on organic views of the nation and nationalism (at  points their argument leads them to use that old cliche about &quot;ancient  ethnic hatreds&quot;), often make this book seem like an intellectual  justification for the type of ethnic prejudices the authors mean to combat.	2000-05-08
US	52782589	R2YS4ET3VAYL6G	0385486804	674569455	Into the Wild	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Simply fascinating	This is simply a fascinating book. Krakauer masterfully reconstructs the journey \\"into the wild\\" by  Chris McCandless and his eventual tragic death. He really does an excellent job of evoking the mindset of McCandless, and I  like how he researched other similar cases of young men going off into the  wilderness to fend for themselves and then disappearing. An additionally  interesting aspect is that even though the reader knows how the entire tale  will eventually end, Krakauer's text is imbued with a sense of suspense.  One can think what one wants about McCandless, i.e. he was a courageous if  misguided idealist or fool who went to live in the Alaskan wilderness  unprepared and with little epxerience (and little regard for his family's  concerns): Krakauer gives his own views but really leaves it up to his  readers to decide. His retelling of McCandess's trek is, however, a  compelling and even haunting read--and it really gives readers much to  think about. This, as well as the simple excellence of the prose,  definitely makes this book better than most contemporary fiction.	2000-05-07
US	52782589	R1AXK08CBI4W1W	0521439612	520709704	Nations and Nationalism since 1780: Programme, Myth, Reality (Canto)	Books	3	34	43	N	N	Not a good introduction to the study of nationalism	Hobsbawm's contribution to the study of nationalism is, I believe, overrated, simply because it has become something of a starting point for people who want to familiarize themselves with this complex subject. Not to  criticize Hobsbawm excessively; I think he's one of the finest living  historians who writes in the English language, and his four &quot;Age  of...&quot; books are among the finest historiographical works on the last  two centuries. But in this book his anti-nationalist bias shows, and the  work suffers for it, especially the conclusion. Hobsbawm has an explicitly  critical stance on nationalism, and his entire argument in this book seems  to be aimed at showing that as a historical phenomena nationalism is on its  way out. While I share, to some extent, Hobsbawm's distaste for  nationalism, I can't agree with this conclusion--and the events of the last  decade definitely contradict this view. Whatever one may think of  nationalism, it is a very important political and social phenomenon, and it  deserves more serious and careful consideration than it gets in this book.  Even so, I give it a three-star rating, because like all of Hobsbawm's  books, it is very well written and engaging, and he provides some  interesting insights into the ways nationalism became a political force  during the late 19th century.	2000-05-05
US	52782589	R31Z2RGCAWIAR9	0380720027	218105535	The End of History and the Last Man	Books	1	58	84	N	N	Irrelevant work with amazing staying power	It's really hard to top that priceless review below, but I'll give it a shot. It's really amazing that after about seven years of hindsight, people are still writing rave reviews of this book for its amazing philosophical  insights. Fukuyama himself had to back-pedal several times to qualify the  bubbling optimism he expressed in the early nineties about the final  victory of liberal democracy and the &quot;end of History&quot; (he  essentially refutes his own thesis in the conclusion to this book). It's  also quite interesting that none of the reviewers who loved this book so  much noted the inherent contradiction in Fukuyama's use of Marxist  philosophical methods to arrive at a &quot;non-Marxist conclusion,&quot; or  his continuous extolling of Hegel as some sort of predecessor to liberal  democracy. Hegel was hardly democratic in outlook (he greatly admired the  powerful and autocratic Prussian state) and he can rightfully be considered  an early proponent of an exclusive northern German nationalism. Fukuyama's  book is very flawed, and should have been relegated to the dustbin of  history (no capital &quot;H&quot;) long ago.	2000-05-04
US	52782589	R134LY8L95FLE5	0375704280	872797668	Is Blood Thicker Than Water?: Crises of Nationalism in the Modern World	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Concise, yet illuminating	Perhaps my only criticism of this book would be that it is too short. Even though McPherson is a historian who specializes in the Civil War period of American history, this short essay is a very useful contribution to the  study of nationalism. The main reason is that it focuses on nationalism  where most of today's intellectual elite says it doesn't exist: in the  United States and Canada. Although written as something of a  &quot;warning&quot; for Canadians, i.e. that they may be facing the same  problems today with Quebec that the U.S. did in the 19th century with the  South, McPherson refrains from stating that the problems of Southern  nationalism in the U.S. have been resolved. Also important is his analysis  of civic and ethnic nationalism, meaning nationalism based on loyalty and  pride in common legal, state and civil institutions as opposed to  nationalism based on common language, culture and &quot;blood ties.&quot;  While McPherson sees the former as a more positive phenomenon, he correctly  points out that even it can often engender the same type of fanaticism and  inspire people to act violently, just like the latter. Finally, perhaps  most fascinating aspect of the book is its exploration of early expressions  of American nationalism, e.g. in the speeches and writings of Thaddeus  Stephens among others, which could be the basis of a longer and more  comprehensive study.	2000-05-02
US	52782589	RI9RPCXXGV52U	0198279469	430548185	Pandaemonium: Ethnicity in International Politics	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Flawed book on important subject	The idea behind this book is a good one: Moynihan attempts to bring light to the ethnic troubles that plagued the world at the time of publication in the early 1990s (which seem to have become even more acute now) by delving  into some of the origins of this problem. He essentially focuses on two  themes: ethnicity, ethnic identity and the persistence and predominance of  ethnic loyalties (as opposed to class loyalties); and national  self-determination, particularly how to define this term and the  international legal conundrums this concept has caused since it first  became a part of mainstream political parlance about a century ago. In its  initial sections, the book does succeed in shedding some light on the role  of ethnicity and self-determination in the political history of the last  hundred or so years, and how essential they have been to international  relations, even if often ingored by mainstream scholarship-especially  during the cold war-which tended to focus almost exclusively on ideology  and political &quot;realism&quot; a la Henry Kissenger (which, as Moynihan  points out, was far from realistic). Perhaps the best thing about this book  is that is offers a good introduction to the problems of ethnicity in  international politics, and provides an excellent reference list of sources  for further reading on the subject. As an introduction, however, it suffers  from being superficial at times. At times it seems as though Moynihan  implicitly accepts the &quot;primordial&quot; thesis on ethnicity and  nationalism, for he cites without critical commentary the all-too-common  lament of many journalists and other armchair experts who bewail the  &quot;ancient ethnic hatreds&quot; burning in some remote corners of the  world. He doesn't really look into the fact that ethnicity politics and the  ensuing nationalism tend to be the product of contemporary political  agitation which often have little to do with historical fact. Although he  mentions the generalmultiethnic harmony of certain pre-nationalist  communities, e.g. in Central Europe, he doesn't really go anywhere with  this. This the general fault of this book: its disjointed approach. At  times Moynihan goes into excessive detail on certain examples while  skimming over other cases. In addition, the text is riddled with extensive  quotations (some as long as two to three pages) of other works or his own  previous works on this subject. Since the book was based on a lecture  delivered at Oxford in 1991, I can only assume that he rather hurriedly  adapted the text for publication. This is unfortunate, for this could have  been a really top-notch work on a very important subject.	2000-04-26
US	52782589	R1V5J6Q6ZS8CYR	0231113838	840286803	Between Serb and Albanian: A History of Kosovo	Books	3	5	8	N	N	good at places, but flawed	I can only assume that some of the readers below who say this book is very &quot;anti-Serbian,&quot; etc. have simply not read the book or superficially skimmed through it. As a number of academic reviewers have  noted, this book in fact gives more credence to Serbian historical claims  about Kosovo than the Albanian ones. For example, Vickers tends to accept  the Serbian view that most Albanians in Kosovo today are descended from  Serbs who were forced to convert to Islam in the distant past. In fact, I  think Vickers should be commended for really making an effort to be  impartial between the conflicting claims of Albanian and Serbian  nationalists. However, this effort is marred by her superficial approach:  she tends to rely too much on secondary sources, and cites, often at  length, excerpts from other books without critically analyzing these  sources (i.e. at several points she very uncritically cites Serbian  nationalist &quot;historian&quot; Dusan Batakovic). Although the overview  of events in the last two decades is quite comprehensive and informative,  there are many places where Vickers cites questionable figures or incidents  of interethnic violence in Kosovo (sometimes nothing more than rumors)  without backing this up with evidence. Again, it seems as though she  depended too much on secondary sources and even propaganda materials  published by either of the two sides. This is important, because this book,  with its emphasis on recent events, could have been a very informative  source for readers who want to learn more about Kosovo and why it has  become a major crisis region.	2000-04-17
US	52782589	R2S97PJIC5UU47	0801494931	509787425	The National Question in Yugoslavia: Origins, History, Politics	Books	5	10	13	N	N	A seminal work	This is perhaps one of the best books on thenational/nationalist problems that have beset the former Yugoslaviasince its formation after World War I. In fact, the author primarily analyzes the short period during and immediately after the establishment of Yugoslavia in 1918, his central thesis being that the overlapping nationalist ideologies and problems which appeared then were never directly addressed and continued to plague the country (all up until its disintegration in 1990 and even afterwards).  &quot;The National Question in Yugoslavia&quot; extensively describes the nationalisms of all Yugoslav peoples, not just the Croats.  Also, since the work focuses on the early 1920s, it would have been pointless to discuss the origins of the Croatian Ustasha, since this ultra-nationalist fascist movement only emerged about ten years later. In the same vein, one could criticize this book for not providing a deeper exploration of the origins of the Serbian Chetnik movement... This is definitely THE book to read if you want a better understanding of the problems and rivalries that existed in Yugoslavia and led to the violent break-up of that country twice: during World War II and at the beginning of the 1990s.	2000-04-05
US	52782589	R3TCSGL5U6GI9I	0880333332	710046163	Yugoslavia's Disintegration and the Struggle for Truth	Books	1	1	5	N	N	More grist for the propaganda mill	The reviewer below is too generous in allocating his stars, but I essentially agree with the views presented. Dragnich is otherwise a quite effective propagandist for the Serb nationalist cause, at least in America,  since he has the veneer of academic legitimacy. This book is essentially an  appendix to his earlier epic of pro-Serbian historiography called  &quot;Serbs and Croats.&quot; Read this only if you're doing an analysis of  propaganda in the recent Balkan wars. The only thing I can't believe is  that this was published as a part of the &quot;East European  Monographs,&quot; otherwise a series of fine scholarly works, which this  book definitely is not.	2000-04-04
US	52782589	R3QQL043KKQUJB	0963362526	83446846	Croatia: Myth and Reality	Books	1	11	24	N	N	Yet more propaganda	In the introduction to this pamphlet, McAdams states that his goal is to expose the &quot;myths&quot; surrounding recent Croatian history as it is perceived and presented to outsiders. He says that over the last 70 years,  i.e. when Croatia was a part of Yugoslavia and during the wartime years  following Yugoslavia's collapse, &quot;a great deal of propaganda has  become mythology with a life of its own, growing and changing with each  retelling.&quot; This statement is true enough, but the propaganda he  refers to is generally that which was presented by the Serbs. He fails to  note that this observation equally applies to Croatian propaganda, of which  this book is, unfortunately, a prime example. Like any good propagandist,  McAdams emphasizes, exaggerates and sometimes fabricates positive aspects  of Croatian history, while dwelling extensively on the negatives of the  Serbs, the Yugoslav government, army, secret service, sometimes Tito and  others. It would take too long to analyze this book's many faults (indeed,  it would be longer than the book itself). I'll instead focus on what is  perhaps the key aspect of this book: its focus on events just before,  during and immediately after World War II. This period is a constantly  recurring theme in both Serbian and Croatian propaganda, because there are  so many hotly contested issues (mainly revolving around numbers, i.e. how  many of the other's people the Croatian or Serbian Nazi collaborators or  communists killed, how many members of their respective nations belonged to  the antifascist resistance, etc.) from this era which are used as  justifications or calls to arms by today's political and military leaders.  In this vein, McAdams states several times that the antifascist Yugoslav  Partisans were &quot;Croatian-dominated,&quot; which is questionable at  best. Croats certainly did join the Partisans in very large numbers, and  some of the most distinguished Partisan commanders were Croats, but much,  if not most, of the rank and file in Croatia and Bosnia, especially at the  war's beginning, were Serbs. Conversely, McAdams claims the Chetniks  (Serbian royalist forces who often collaborated with the Nazis and the  Italians and committed a fair share of war crimes) deserted en masse to the  Partisans towards the end of the war, which is true only to a certain  extent, and that by 1945 they had &quot;effectively taken control of the  army and government&quot; in Yugoslavia. This is simply not true, a typical  lie taken from the pages of the most radical Croatian right-wing  propaganda. Along the same lines, McAdams correctly questions the  highly-inflated Serbian claims of the number of Serbs killed by the Croats  during the war, but he does not similarly contest megalomaniac Croatian  claims of the number of Croats killed in retaliations after the war.  Perhaps the most disturbing aspect of the book is that McAdams tends to be  an apologist for the Ustasha, the terrorist organization which ran  something called the &quot;Independent State of Croatia&quot; during World  War II. This &quot;state&quot; was basically propped up by Mussolini's  Italy and Hitler's Germany. Its leaders set up concentration camps for  Serbs, Jews and other undesirables, and their forces often massacred the  entire populations of villages and committed other similar atrocities.  McAdams doesn't delve into such matters, perhaps because it conflicts with  his apparent mission of presenting the Croats as a collective of saints.  Ustasha leader Ante Pavelic is never mentioned in the context of the  genocidal system he set up, while McAdams tries to claim that writer Mile  Budak played only a minor role in the Ustasha regime. Budak was in fact a  very high-profile Ustasha official notorious for making inflammatory racist  statements. It is shameful that there are streets named after him in  certain cities in today's Croatia-something else McAdams denies. McAdams  actually does a disservice to the Croats by promoting this right-wing  version of the country's history. For it is only this manner that Ljudevit  Gaj and Josip Juraj Strossmayer, two 19th century national leaders who had  an inestimable impact on Croatian politics, society, culture and  scholarship, can be reduced to simple &quot;advocates of the Yugoslav idea  and a unified Yugoslav state,&quot; a very skewed summary of two very  complex, fascinating and above all positive historical figures. By  contrast, McAdams almost deifies the recently deceased President Franjo  Tudjman, a man who can be credited with leading Croatia to independence in  1991, but also the man who set up a nationalist authoritarian regime and  allowed a clique of robber barons to virtually destroy the economy. This  review can only scratch the surface of the misconceptions, omissions and  outright mistruths presented in this book. Any of the actual propagandistic  lies about Croatia that are exposed in this book are sullied by McAdams'  whitewashing of Croatian history and his apologetics for war criminals.  Readers are advised to look elsewhere for objective treatment of Croatia,  past and present.ats by promoting this right-wing  version of the country's history. For it is only this manner that Ljudevit  Gaj and Josip Juraj Strossmayer, two 19th century national leaders who had  an inestimable impact on Croatian politics, society, culture and  scholarship, can be reduced to simple &quot;advocates of the Yugoslav idea  and a unified Yugoslav state,&quot; a very skewed summary of two very  complex, fascinating and above all positive historical figures. By  contrast, McAdams almost deifies the recently deceased President Franjo  Tudjman, a man who can be credited with leading Croatia to independence in  1991, but also the man who set up a nationalist authoritarian regime and  allowed a clique of robber barons to virtually destroy the economy. This  review can only scratch the surface of the misconceptions, omissions and  outright mistruths presented in this book. Any of the actual propagandistic  lies about Croatia that are exposed in this book are sullied by McAdams'  whitewashing of Croatian history and his apologetics for war criminals.  Readers are advised to look elsewhere for objective treatment of Croatia,  past and present.	2000-03-29
US	52782589	R30AVK14UPVNFY	0773520171	745554313	Croatia: A History	Books	5	32	38	N	N	Outstanding, a praiseworthy effort	Finally, an English-language history of Croatia written by a qualified, dedicated and objective historian. After reading (or, more often, skimming through) the numerous pamphlets and &quot;overviews&quot; of Croatian  history written in English by various journalists, political scientists,  pseudo-historians and assorted propagandists over the years, Goldstein's  book is almost like manna from heaven. The book is a comprehensive short  survey of the history of the Croats and their territory from the earliest  times to the present (1999). Goldstein places the most emphasis on the  twentieth century, however, since he intended this book for foreign  readers, who he correctly assumed are more interested in recent history and  the background to the current events so extensively covered in the news  over the last decade. This is actually ironic, since Goldstein is one of  Croatia's foremost authorities on medieval history and the Byzantine  Empire. Indeed, his chapters on medieval and early modern Croatian history  are probably the best short survey of this period in Croatia in any  language. This takes nothing away from the last few chapters. Goldstein's  coverage of the complex events in Croatia during World War II is also very  objective and-crucially-cool-headed, which all too often is not the case in  Croatian and Serbian historiography on that period. Both tend to engage in  often exaggerated accusations of the atrocities committed by the other side  while downplaying the war crimes of their own people. Here Goldstein very  frankly speaks of the regime of terror established by the Croatian Ustasha  and their genocidal mass killings of Serbs, Jews and others. He is no less  balanced and critical in his approach to Yugoslavia's break-up and the  ensuring wars in Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina. Although concise, this  section of the book is very comprehensive and does more in the way of  clarifying events than most of the now countless &quot;in-depth&quot; books  on the Yugoslav wars written over the course of the last ten years. He  provides a good summary of wartime events in Croatia, listing the numerous  massacres and destruction caused by the Yugoslav army and Serbian forces.  But he doesn't shy away from mentioning the crimes committed by Croatian  forces either. Particularly interesting in the latter context is the  critical treatment of the Croatian role in the war in Bosnia-Herzegovina,  and the ugly war crimes committed by Croatian troops during the  Croat-Muslim conflict. There is also a very earnest discussion of the  myriad consequences the war and overall political events of the 1990s (i.e.  the Tudjman regime) had and continue to have for Croatian society, culture  and the economy. This is not just an excellent book for foreign readers;  it's also the type of popular historiography greatly needed in Croatia  itself, for only such frank appraisals of past events can initiate the  &quot;exorcism&quot; of the nationalist pathology which has so infected  Croatia's public life (this also applies to Serbia, Bosnia, etc.). Perhaps  my only criticism of the book would be the occasional awkwardness and  unclarities in the translation, and the often careless proofreading.  Otherwise, this book deserves only the highest praise.	2000-03-27
US	52782589	ROTB64YJ3DQ3T	0521625440	921769788	The Construction of Nationhood: Ethnicity, Religion and Nationalism (Wiles Lectures, 1996.)	Books	4	50	50	N	N	Unique contribution to the study of nationalism	This book has already been criticized as a blatant promotion of the &quot;primordialist&quot; view of nations and nationalism, i.e. the claim that nations have existed as one of the prime forms of human (self-)  identification and organization since time immemorial. Such criticisms are,  I think, not entirely on the mark. What Hastings does in this book more  than anything else is challenge the incredibly structural/functionalist  view that nations and nationalism are simply a by-product of  industrialization and the increasingly complex division of labor in human  societies-a model constructed and most extensively explained by Ernest  Gellner. While useful and interesting, Gellner's model often has to bend  and fold historical facts to make them &quot;fit.&quot; In fact, Hastings  takes Gellner's rigid model and applies it to early medieval England, where  shows that according to Gellner's criteria, one can even speak of a nascent  English nation in the era of the Venerable Bede and King Alfred. The most  important point Hastings makes is to fault the strictly modern view of  national development as overly simplistic. Nation formation and national  identity are actually long-term historical processes which, although  closely tied to industrialization and modernization, were and are not  strictly bound to the latter nor always dependent on them. Although I don't  necessarily agree with all of Hastings' conclusions, nor even his  analytical methods, I think this is a very interesting and useful  contribution to the scholarly literature on nationalism.	2000-03-20
US	52782589	R3178LKC8YKL6	0375753605	598876259	To End a War: The Conflict in Yugoslavia--America's Inside Story--Negotiating with Milosevic (Modern Library Paperbacks)	Books	1	21	31	N	N	Much Ado About Nothing	Any diplomatic memoir written so recently after the events in question will actually shed little light on the political motives and decision-making at the highest levels, since most of the documents and  decisions involved are subject to confidentiality. Thus, their primary  value is in revealing details about the actual personalities involved: the  politicians, war leaders and diplomats whose actions shape events. Here  Holbrooke's account falls short. There's very little he says in this book  that hasn't been recounted previously in any number of news reports and  documentaries on the shuttle diplomacy and diplomatic negotiations that  eventually led to the Dayton Accords which ended the actual fighting in  Bosnia. &quot;To End a War&quot; tells the reader more about Holbrooke than  anything else, for this is a very vain man who is attempting to secure his  place in history by retelling the story of his astounding negotiating  efforts. Therefore, his observations of the personalities and behavior of  various Balkan politicians (with the possible exception of Slobodan  Milosevic) are often superficial, although we do learn which ones Holbrooke  seemed to dislike on a personal level. We also learn that Holbrooke was  usually treated to tasty meals of roast lamb whenever he visited Belgrade  or the Serbian strongholds in Bosnia-altogether useless facts, unless I'm  misinterpreting some incredibly subtle metaphorical symbolism. The only  good thing about Holbrooke's account is that the writing style is  straightforward and easy to read, so if you need to read this book for some  minor details on the American aspect of Balkan diplomacy in the mid-1990s,  it won't take long to get through it. Otherwise, even David Owen's dry and  tedious &quot;Balkan Odyssey&quot; is more informative, while Warren  Zimmermann's &quot;Origins of a Catastrophe&quot; provides the most lucid  and perceptive (not to mention revealing) observations of the major Balkan  leaders by a high-levelforeign diplomat (he was the last U.S. ambassador  to Yugoslavia). The most revealing aspect of Holbrooke's book is that it  highlights the arrogance of U.S. foreign policy: Holbrooke continuously  jabs at the U.N. and European diplomats for their failure in the Balkans,  while stressing how America stepped in to single-handedly save the day. Not  that I think the UN and the EU didn't bungle pretty aimlessly in the  Balkans, but the &quot;success&quot; of the U.S. diplomatic initiative is  subject to question. After all, Holbrooke himself notes that almost all  signatories of the Dayton Accords were generally dissatisfied with the  agreement--and this is reflected in the ongoing political problems in  Bosnia-Herzegovina.	2000-03-20
US	52782589	R29Y9LJW0M6Y0Y	0156005212	558624982	Balkan Odyssey (Harvest Book)	Books	1	2	6	N	N	Self-serving apologetics	I suppose this book is somewhat unavoidable for the serious student of the Balkan wars of the 1990s, since David Owen was deeply involved in &quot;peace&quot; diplomacy in the Balkans from late 1992 to mid-1995.  However, after reading his memoir, one comes out with little in the way of  new insights or even interesting details. Most of the time Owen simply  tries to white-wash his own role in the Bosnian war; I'm not saying he  should be completely blamed for certain events which occured during his  tenure as international peace mediator, but he certainly bears some of the  culpability. One example is the Vance-Owen Peace Plan, which, by drawing  little serpentine lines over the map of Bosnia and designating  ethnically-based territories, gave the Croatian militia and Croatian  nationalist leaders something of an international mandate to make  territorial claims and expel Bosnian Muslims and others from these  territories. It's a common cop-out of Croatian nationalists to blame the  Vance-Owen plan for the Muslim-Croat conflict, which is wrong, but Owen did  nothing to hinder this conflict and his actions in fact fanned the  fire--something he glosses over in this book. There's also the case of Owen  bringing smuggler-extraordinaire Fikret Abdic into the peace talks as a  counterweight to the Sarajevo-based Muslim leadership, who were too  obstinate for Owen's tastes. Abdic was popular in his own little pocket of  northwestern Bosnia and reviled everywhere else because he was a corrupt  businessman and black-marketeer. His introduction to the peace talks by  Owen only confused the diplomatic negotiations and led to one of the most  bizarre episodes in the Bosnian war: the inter-Muslim confict in the Bihac  pocket (Abdic's power base). Yet Owen describes his political  rehabilitation of Abdic as a diplomatic triumph. I suppose it's too much to  expect him to be overly self-critical, but his self-serving apologetics in  this book are almost repugnant. In addition, his writing style leaves  something to be desired. Despite the dramatic events which were the subject  of this book, &quot;Balkan Odyssey&quot; is about as exciting as a  lawnmower owner's manual. All in all, a disappointing book.	2000-03-17
US	52782589	R2WGOT4NFS33JY	1567511767	960551625	The New Military Humanism: Lessons From Kosovo	Books	4	20	23	N	N	Useful Guide to Propaganda	Chomsky's latest is a meticulous dissection of the role played by the Western, primarily American, media during the 1999 Kosovo crisis. Although a bit tedious at times if one has already read his classic critical works  on the mass media as propaganda system (e.g. &quot;Manufacturing  Consent&quot; and &quot;Necessary Illusions&quot;), &quot;New Military  Humanism&quot; is still a crucial work to read if one wants to understand  an important aspect of this war. Perhaps my only criticism of the book is  that Chomsky is not sufficiently familiar with recent Balkan politics, so  that his overriding message at times seems to be that Kosovo did not become  a problem until the U.S. government, followed by the American media, came  in and made it a problem. Kosovo and its Albanian population were in fact  one of the major contributing factors to the breakdown of Yugoslav politics  in the late 1980s, eventually leading to the collapse of that country with  the consequences that are well known to us all. The problems in Kosovo  itself festered for over ten years before taking the form of open  hostilities in 1997/1998. Where Chomsky is correct is in pointing out that  once the U.S. and (to a lesser extent) its NATO allies decided to take a  more active role in Kosovo for whatever reason, the media promptly jumped  in to generate public support for any policy moves. What the media did,  following cues from the State Department, NATO headquarters and elsewhere,  was to turn something that was essentially a regional dilemma (albeit an  extremely troubling one) into a matter of major international concern.  After all, why should Kosovo be more important to the average American  citizen than East Timor-as Chomsky frequently points out? The stage was  then set to make even air strikes against Serbia publicly acceptable-much  as the war against Iraq was in 1991. Parenthetically, I don't say any of  this, and I don't necessarily think it was Chomsky's intent, so much to  condemn ordefend the local actors in this conflict, i.e. the KLA and  Milosevic's regime of thugs and war criminals, but to criticize the way the  problem was handled by the &quot;world's only remaining super-power&quot;  once it become involved. Just as in Bosnia, the timing of involvement and  the political structure set up to maintain &quot;the peace&quot; are all  wrong, as the continuing turmoil of Kosovo under international military  occupation is now proving.	2000-03-13
US	52782589	R1VF425W59VLW1	027101847X	792642787	The Culture of Lies: Antipolitical Essays (Post-Communist Cultural Studies)	Books	5	23	29	N	N	Sadly accurate	Dubravka Ugresic is perhaps less well-known in the English-speaking world than the other Croatian &quot;dissident&quot; writer Slavenka Drakulic, which is unfortunate. Both Ugresic's essays and especially fiction are far superior to that of Drakulic. &quot;Culture of Lies&quot; includes the  author's observations of Croatian society and politics of the last ten  years, both of which have been none too kind to her (indeed, while  achieving great acclaim in other European countries, she was branded a  &quot;traitor&quot; and worse by Croatian politicians and the pro-regime  press for her uncompromising criticism of Croatian nationalism, etc.). In  this book, Ugresic shows the many ways in which nationalism imbued all  levels of society in Croatia, making people increasingly hostile to  different views and people who were/are &quot;different.&quot; Her  particular area of interest is the way this was reflected in the behavior  of intellectuals, who-at least one would like to think-are not supposed to  be as susceptible to the appeal of God-and-country patriotism and  nationalistic kitsch. Her description of an incident in a Zagreb tram, in  which a young man accosts and beats an old destitute drunken man, is  particularly vivid and sadly indicative. In fact, this whole section of the  book, called &quot;Souvenirs from Paradise&quot; is an excellent collection  of impressions and observations of the underside of Croatian life. Despite  the recent sweeping political changes in Croatia, many of the negative  aspects of society in this country as described by Ugresic are still here,  and they will haunt this country for some time to come.	2000-03-07
US	52782589	R245M0XS7S7GND	1555972713	86389261	Salvation and Other Disasters	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Really captures the mood	I'm actually surprised at how well many of Novakovich's stories about Croatia in the early 1990s, especially &quot;Sheepskin&quot; and &quot;Crimson&quot; capture the mood and feel of life at the time, given  that he has been living in the U.S. since the 1970s. These two stories in  particular reflect the brutal and at times surreal atmosphere of life in  wartime Croatia. Also moving are his stories that deal with various aspects  of the immigrant experience in America. Novakovich is one of those writers  who can really evoke a sense of time and place, I found myself haunted by  many of these stories days after reading them.	2000-03-03
US	52782589	R22VOQZTMWTG9W	1878825151	404305428	The American Presidency (The Real Story Series)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	not essential, but very helpful	For those who don't have the time to read James Loewen's &quot;Lies My Teacher Told Me&quot; this book is a nice short summary of why we shouldn't take the institution of the American presidency too seriously. Also, it  highlights the grossly mistaken manner in which American history is taught  in the nation's high schools. Vidal makes it clear that far from the proud  heroes presented in the history textbooks, most American presidents were  just ordinary guys with more than their far share of flaws. He also  explains why it is important to understand that the policies led by these  flawed, often greedy and usually power hungry individuals had grave  consequences not only for America but most of the world.	2000-03-02
US	52782589	R36JOE8OHR3PNM	0805210393	969973930	The Castle	Books	2	6	7	N	N	Could have been better, and shorter	I'm going to go out on a limb here and give this book a negative review. It's not that I don't like Kafka, I've read most of his fiction and I think he was a brilliant writer. But this book just disappointed me. It's a few  hundred pages too long--he pretty much makes most of his main points in the  first part of the book and the remaining narrative seems superfluous and,  well, tedious. Although his other two novels are also  &quot;unfinished&quot; I think he expressed himself much more clearly in  them. I agree with the other reviewers that this novel was about many  things, i.e. the quest for truth, the frustration of the invididual facing  the state and society itself, etc., but I think it could have been done  better, especially by someone like Kafka. While reading &quot;The  Castle&quot; I couldn't get over the impression that I was reading the  first draft of something the author probably would have refined and  improved had he lived longer.	2000-03-02
US	52782589	R2YCYYDWKJM4XK	0805210393	377046405	The Castle	Books	2	12	21	N	N	Could have been better, and shorter	I'm going to go out on a limb here and give this book a negative review. It's not that I don't like Kafka, I've read most of his fiction and I think he was a brilliant writer. But this book just disappointed me. It's a few  hundred pages too long--he pretty much makes most of his main points in the  first part of the book and the remaining narrative seems superfluous and,  well, tedious. Although his other two novels are also  &quot;unfinished&quot; I think he expressed himself much more clearly in  them. I agree with the other reviewers that this novel was about many  things, i.e. the quest for truth, the frustration of the invididual facing  the state and society itself, etc., but I think it could have been done  better, especially by someone like Kafka. While reading &quot;The  Castle&quot; I couldn't get over the impression that I was reading the  first draft of something the author probably would have refined and  improved had he lived longer.	2000-03-02
US	52782589	R2I2J6Z2KFOOL1	0807070599	24533904	You Can't Be Neutral on a Moving Train: A Personal History of Our Times	Books	5	32	34	N	N	an informative easy read	Zinn's casual biography is a really pleasant read, probably because he doesn't attempt to write an exhaustive account of his illustrious life. Rather, he spends more time describing the events he witnessed and, more  importantly, the people he met. &quot;You Can't Be Neutral&quot; can be  read simply for the joy of it or to get some more background information on  one of America's premier social historians, but it can also be used as a  supplementary source for the civil rights movement and even the effects of  World War II on war veterans. Zinn's description of his experiences in the  South just before and during the Civil Rights movement are fascinating,  they really give the reader a feel for the frustration felt by the  movement's protagonists and the atmosphere of hope they created. I highly  recommend to this book to anyone.	2000-03-02
US	52782589	R1YQ7O62J6SL0P	0679749810	806639526	Balkan Ghosts: A Journey Through History	Books	1	126	148	N	N	Not to be taken seriously	Kaplan's book is very is extremely well-written, and easy to read. It's also easy to get drawn into the author's narrative and take everything he says as given. However, Kaplan is not as well-informed on his subject  (basically the entire Balkan peninsula) as he thinks he is. With the  exception of Greece, where he spent a lot of time, and perhaps Bulgaria, he  doesn't know a whole lot about the region and fills in the gaps in his  knowledge with stereotypes drawn from other authors or by transposing the  opinions a few people he talked to onto entire populations--often giving  distorted impressions of e.g. the Serbs, Croats or Romanians. Nothing is  more indicative of Kaplan's essentially unscholarly approach to such a  complex topic than the reading materials he says he used to prepare himself  for his journeys: for Yugoslavia he depends on Rebecca West's pre-World War  II travelogue &quot;Black Lamb and the Grey Falcon,&quot; a biased book  itself, and based on her rather short (3-4 week) sojourn in Yugoslavia;  even more troubling is his use of Bram Stoker's &quot;Dracula&quot; as a  guide for Romania. Stoker was never in Romania (or rather Transylvania) nor  did he ever intend his book to be taken as an accurate view of southeastern  Europe; he was simply trying to provide some atmosphere for his novel, and  his portrayal of Transylvania draws heavily on Victorian-era prejudices  about the Balkans as an eerie and savage place. Yet Kaplan repeatedly cites  Stoker as though he is a legitimate authority on Romania. This is, to say  the least, irresponsible. As other reviewers on this page noted, the most  disturbing thing is that this book's popularity ensured that it helped  formulate opinions among broad sections of the public, including  policy-makers.	2000-02-29
US	52782589	R1TVRR3FWU7MKX	0140257713	420072900	The Fall of Yugoslavia: The Third Balkan War, Third Revised Edition	Books	2	36	47	N	N	Simply over-rated	This book was among the first of the now almost countless multitude of books written by reporters, commentators, political analysts, etc. on the collapse of the former Yugoslovia. As such, it became a standard text for  many people to &quot;find out what's going on over there.&quot; It's not  that it's a bad book, many sections are quite informative, but as some of  the reviews below note, it assumes readers already have some knowledge of  the intricacies of Yugoslav politics and a grasp of the local geography.  Also, it's hardly an impartial book (which, given the author's first-hand  observance of many events, is understandable), so readers looking for  objectivity are better served by other sources. I also agree with the  reviewer below who recommends the documentary &quot;Yugoslavia: Death of a  Nation&quot;; I recommend the companion book of the same title even more  (by Laura Silber and Allan Little)--it's the best short survey of events in  Yugoslavia from the late 1980s to ca 1995. However, I have to correct a  gross error: CNN's Christiane Amanpour did not make the above documentary,  rather the BBC did (Amanpour lacks both the knowledge and skill to produce  such an excellent piece of documentary reporting). In conclusion, Glenny's  book should be read only to get additional background information and more  detail on specific wartime events during the early 1990s.	2000-02-25
