US	52788246	R9A56735HY0GI	0345459954	578133441	Heart of the Flame: A Novel	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	The 2nd is much, much better	I must admit that the first book of the Dragon Chalice Series, Heart of the Hunter, was not my favorite, mostly because I disliked the heroine.  However, the second in the series, Heart of the Flame, was much better.  The heroine, Haven, was strong and sweet.  Kenrick was strong and caring.  Even though he does turn into a jerk for a few chapters toward the end you kind of expect that since he does have the shock of his life finding out Haven's secret.  But he quickly redeems himself and turns back into a sweetheart.   <br /> <br />The story, about a knight named Kenrick who we first met in Heart of the Hunter, is on a mission to find the pieces of the Dragon Chalice.  Kenrick goes to his friend Rand's castle, only to find Rand and his family had been murdered by Silas's minion.  While there he finds Haven half dead and begins to care for her.  After awhile they soon become lovers and fall in love.  Only there is something that Kenrick does not know about Haven and when he finds out...oh well I'll let you read the book.   <br /> <br />The story was excellent, definately better than the first, and I can't wait the read the third book in the series.	2005-04-25
US	52788246	R10P1QV7GLKGXL	0345459946	579928960	Heart of the Hunter	Books	2	18	26	N	N	More like a 2 1/2	First let me say that I love Tina St John books.  Until this one.  The premise is a good one.  Long ago, in a kingdom of magic, there lived a princess.  One day she discovered a human, or \\"Outsider,\\" lying wounded outside her kingdom.  She takes the man into her world where she nurses him back to health.  She fell in love with him and he convinced her to go with him back to his world.  She did but soon discovered he had stolen a magic chalice.  When he crossed the threshold that seperated the two worlds the chalice broke apart into four smaller cups and was lost.  Legend said that if the cups were found and reunited the owner would have immense power.<br />Several hundred years later a young man named Kenrick, a Templer Knight, began to investigate the stories of the cups.  His researched lead him to believe he found the location of one of the cups.  Enter the villen, Silas de Mortaine.  He has already found one cup and learns about Kenricks discovery.  He kidnaps Kenrick and sends a message to his sister, Ariana, telling her to bring the notes Kenrick wrote of the lost cup or she would never see her brother alive again.  The rest of the story is her quest to return the notes to de Mortaine and have her brother released.  During this quest she meets Braedon le Chasseur (the hunter) who aids her.  Braedon is a feelingless knight with a scarred face and heart.  Now I won't go any further becase it would take away from the story so I will go into why I could only give this Tina story two stars.<br />I liked the premise of the story which had magic and suspense throughout.  Braedon, like all of Tina's men, was mature, kind (with people he cares for) and honest. He is also very loyal.  <br />But....then there was Arian.  Arian was, how shall I say it, naive, stupid, reckless, sulky and childish.  At first I figured that Tina was trying to be consistant with the age of the character since she was portrayed as being very young.  However, she never got better.  In her questto save her brother she gets one of her knights killed and Braedon injured.  She never really thanked Braedon for saving her life but instead accuses him of stealing her money.  When she discovers he has not, does she apologize?  Nope.  She wants to hire him to take her on her foolish quest.  She was soooo childish at times, sulking like a 5 year-old, that I just skipped those parts and ultimately only read the parts containing Braedon or the story of the chalice.  It was a difficult read for me since I harbored so much disgust toward a lead character and I was not sure I would finish the book.  I did, butI doubt I will read it a second time.<br />I want it known that Tina writes so much better than this and for anyone new to this author try reading \\"Lord of Vengeance\\" or \\"Lady of Valor\\" (my favorite).<br />TINA:  Please don't write such an immature, childish heroine again.  It takes away from what would have been a great story.	2004-06-15
US	52788246	R1NJG10NT64NEM	0425196577	503440717	Fade To Red (Berkley Sensation)	Books	3	16	19	N	Y	Not one of her best...	Well I'll start by giving a summary about the book then delve into why I only gave it three stars.<br />Lindsey Metcaff travels to Seattle to locate her missing younger sister Traci.  Traci left a message on her answer machine and had not been heard from since.  Upon arriving in Seattle she discovered Traci's house ransacked and a message on her answer maching from a guy named Striker.  Lindsey discovers Striker is a an ex-cop and Private Investigator awaiting trial on charges of Felony Assault.  She and Striker team up to find out what might have happened to Traci.  They soon discover that Traci was involved in a world of sex and perversion.  While investigating Traci's disappearence, Lindsey and Striker become romanitically involved.  I won't say anymore since that will ruin the ending and will instead go into why I thought the story only deserved three stars.<br />The story was good and had potential but I could never warm up to the female lead, Lindsey.  Time and time again she refused to believe the evidence in front of her.  No matter what was told to her or shown her about her sister Traci she refused to believe anything bad about her sister.  Even when she was shown a movie showing her sister engaging in group sex, and rather happily I might add, she believed that her sister had been drugged and forced to do those awful things.  After awhile it just got to be annoying.  Now don't get me wrong.  I'm a police detective and know that families always refuse to believe the bad in their children or siblings but this was alittle much.  It just made it very hard to believe she was the intelligent woman that the author was trying to depict.  For some reason this story didn't really flow like the rest of her books but give it a try and see what you think.	2004-05-31
US	52788246	R9DOYUNBEDV7C	0373273509	129538622	One True Thing (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1280)	Books	2	4	5	N	N	What happened Marilyn?	I can't believe that I just gave Marilyn Pappano only 2 stars.  Now lets start by saying I love the Heartbreak series, my favorite probably being \\"The Horsemans Bride.\\" I never read \\"The Sheriffs Surrender\\" because I don't like defense attorneys so I knew I could not truely enjoy the book.  Pappanos stories are emotional and sexy all wrapped up in one.  She also delves into various relationships throughout her stories which include friendships that make me long for a friendship that strong.  Read her first few books in the Heartbreak series and you'll understand.  Now about her most recent book \\"One True Thing.\\"<br />This is story about Jace Barnett.  He quits his job at the police department after being used as a scape goat by his department brass (I know the feeling).  He goes back home and there he meets his new neighbor Cassidy McRae.  She is hiding a secret that could not only cost her Jace's life but that of her own.  Now I won't go into the secret because that would spoil the story.  Instead I'll talk about why I didn't like the story.<br />First the characters never seems to click.  It started out as a good premise, even though its been used many times before.  Ex-cop protects woman in danger.  Even the first two chapers had my interest but then it was gone.  I didn't like Cassidy, not because she lied to Jace through almost the entire book but it was the way she lied.  Cassidy came up with so many stories about herself that everyone in Heartbreak was suspicious.  I mean come on.  If your running from someone who is trying to kill you and you take up a new identity stick with the same lie.  All she did was make herself stand out to everyone she met.  VERY unrealistic and it just made her appear stupid.  It also seemed like she had no warmth or depth. No character.  Maybe it was me but I felt no attachment.  When I finally finished the book, and believe me it was difficult since it would not keep my interest, I decided it would not be one of my Heartbreak keepers.<br />If your really want some good stories with awsome characters read \\"The Cattlemans Promise,\\" \\"Horsemans Bride,\\" and \\"Rogues Reform.\\"  Excellent stories by a talented author who just seemed to lose it on this one.	2004-04-18
US	52788246	R1THY65IG3I5UJ	0671568841	781227321	All the Queen's Men	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	It's more like 4 1/2 stars....	I've recently become a big fan of Linda Howards and have been buying up most of her books.  I had read &quot;Kill and Tell&quot; a few months ago and became very intrigued with one of it's characters, John Medina, a CIA operative.  This book is actually Johns story.<br />The first part of the book starts off in Iran, 5 years earlier.  John is on assignment with several other people, including Niema and her husband Dallas Burdock (a Navy SEAL).  During the operation Dallas is killed and John helps Niema escape.  Now to the present.  John has always had a thing for Niema but had stayed away because he wanted her to find happiness.  Now they are sent on a mission together and he decides he doesn't want to give her up.  The rest of the story is about their mission which I won't spoil.<br />Now some reviewers had a problem with the first time John and Niema make love.  Some even said it bordered on rape.  I didn't see it like that.  Niema's reluctance to make love to John had nothing to do with her being unwilling.  She just didn't like the location of where it happened and I don't blame her.  <br />Some reviewers felt that at times John was too cold.  Again I didn't see that.  He was controlled and in his line of work you would have to be.  There were times, like when he was bandaging her feet, that I felt he was very sweet.<br />There were only two things I didn't like about the story.  One was John is always portrayed as &quot;wanting&quot; Niema but I would have like to have heard him say he loved her.  The second was the sightseeing trip toward the end of the book.  I'm sorry but if your being chased by a bunch of goons your not going to go off sightseeing.  Other than that it was a pretty good read.	2004-01-10
US	52788246	R7QYN3RPE54GX	1551663074	988983261	Diamond Bay	Books	4	39	40	N	N	This should be 4 1/2 stars	Story Summary:Kell Sabin is an agent on vacation.  He is set up by someone in his organization and is shot.  Rachel Jones finds him lying on the beach unconcious.  She takes care of him and protects him from the dangerous men hunting him.  They both fall in love with each other but he doesn't want to have her hurt because of what he does for a living and ultimately leaves her toward the end of the story.  Don't worry it will work out in the end.  Now to what I liked about the book.<br />First, I loved Kell Sabin.  He's dark and dangerous.  He keeps himself from feeling anything for anyone until he meets Rachel.  All I can say is that I want to find a guy liked that washed up on the beach.<br />Second, I really liked Rachel.  She was sooooo honest.  She didn't play games and just told it like it was.  When she realized she was in love with Kell she just told him straight up.<br />This book is where you meet John Rafferty and he'll have his own story in Heartbreaker.  You also need to read Midnight Rainbow first, then Diamond Bay, Heartbreaker and finally White lies.  They all tie into together.  Happy reading.	2003-11-23
US	52788246	R3H8EF23HBFXU5	0671019759	12019675	Dream Man	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Hard to put down...	Well let's start with what the story is about.  Marlie Keen has the ability to see things as their happening.  After &quot;seeing&quot; a murder take place she goes to the police for help.  There she meets Detective Dane Hollister.  He doesn't believe her at first but then is present when she has one of her visions.  While trying to find out who the killer is Dane and Marlie begin a relationship.  The killer ultimately finds out about Marlie and decides to take care of that little problem (ie. Marlie).  I'm not going to tell you the end so you'll just have to buy the book.  Now to why I really liked this story.<br />What really stood out was how much research Linda Howard did in writing her police characters.  I am a Homicide Detective and I cannot tell you how it annoys me when writers always &quot;get it wrong&quot; when describing police officers.  I was pleasently surpirsed to find that the police characters were dead on.  How they acted with civilians, how they interacted with other officers.  If you want to know how cops act then read this book.  The only part I didn't like was when Dane set up Marlie with the press to get the killer to reveal himself without telling her.  That would not have happened.  If something like that would have been done then she (Marlie) would have been asked to participate and precautions would have been made.  And then the part about putting Marlie in jail for her &quot;own protection.&quot;  I can't see that happening either.  If she refused protective custody and they incarcerated her I see lawsuits on the horizon.<br />Second, I love how Linda Howard described Marlies abilities.  It was pretty intense.<br />The interactions between Dane and Marlie were pretty good also with Dane being the typical Linda Howard male (I see what I want and it's mine.) <br />Over all it was a good read and will keep you up late at night.	2003-11-23
US	52788246	R1V3Q69GRLOMRB	0671019708	691382940	After the Night	Books	2	18	22	N	N	I hated the characters	Story Summary:  Faith Devlin had been run out of town by Gray Rouillard when he found out that her mother and his father and run away together.  Several years later Faith returned to prove that Grays father did not run away with her mother.  Gray and Faith immediately clash because he still blames Faiths mother for breaking his family up.  There is suspense and sexualy tension in the book and you'll have to read it if you want to find out about what really happened to Grays father.  Now to why I didn't like the book.<br />First, I hated Gray.  He was a total jerk (I'm being nice with my language because I think there is a better word to describe him).  He was absolutely cruel to Faith.  He really made her life miserable.  And after they made love the first time and he made the comment that if having sex with Faiths mother had been like that no wonder his father couldn't stay away, I would have knocked him on his butt.  Then he calls her the next day like nothing ever happened and gets angry when she doesn't talk to him.  It was very hard to finish the book and I kept hoping that Gray would redeam himself.  He never really did.<br />Second, I hated Faith just as much.  She had absolutely no back bone and let Gray treat her poorly.  Everytime she tried to stand up to him he just beat her down emotionally.  <br />It would have been a good book if the characters had been better.	2003-11-23
US	52788246	R3L04364WPQSYU	1551661535	834980944	Midnight Rainbow	Books	4	37	38	N	N	Excellent book	Story Summary:  Grant Sullivan is hired to find Jane Greer, who has been kidnapped.  Once he rescues her from the bad guys they travel through the jungle where they become lovers.  She falls in love with him while he tries to fight the same feelings.  There is some suspenseful moments since this is somewhat a spy verses spy book.  Now to why I liked the book.<br />First, Grant was great.  He was rough and demanding but hey, he had to be to keep them alive.  <br />Second, Jane was great.  She was strong but always kept a sense of humor.  I loved her bag of tricks that she kept.  Typical woman.  <br />I didn't like the end that much.  It was rather hokey but it didn't take away from the story.<br />Also this is where you first meet Kell Sabin, who will have his own story in Diamond Bay.  I recommend you buy this book first, then Diamond Bay, then Heartbreaker (because that is the sequal to Diamond Bay) and then White Lies (which also features Kell Sabin).  A very good read if you can find this book.	2003-11-23
US	52788246	R2FN0FFF86J3BR	0373273134	901031354	Night Watch (Tall, Dark & Dangerous, Book 11)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The best Brockman has written.  I'd give this 10 stars.	I'll start by saying this is the story of SEAL member Wes Skelly and his relationship with Brittney Evans, another SEAL-mates sister-in-law. It starts as a blind date and progresses through their relationship.  One of the other reviewers sums up the whole plot so I'll skip that part and delve into why I loved the book.<br />First, I absolutely fell for Wes.  He has problems, like the rest of us, and is trying to deal with them.  I loved the way he felt comfortable enough to open up to Brittney about his fears and problems.  Brockman gave these characters such emotions it was almost like they were real.  Like the time that Wes confessed to Brittney that he thought he was an alcoholic and that the only time he thought he could say his feelings was when he was drunk.<br />Second, I really liked Brittney.  She was funny, sensitive and mature.  This was a surprise, since I had been having problems liking the heroines of Brockman's most recent books, which I found very annoying.  Brittney was different.  She wasn't stuck on why her and Wes should not be together.  She had small insecurities but nothing overwhelming.  <br />I have been reading all of Brockmans &quot;Tall, Dark and Dangerous&quot; books and this has to be the best one yet.  I even liked it more that the first one &quot;Prince Joe&quot; and thats saying alot.	2003-09-07
US	52788246	R3D7D6OHRMPSDY	0751517070	250113338	Fair Game	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Awsome read...	The story goes like this.  Clare Randell, while relaxing in a park accidently makes contact with a \\"hitman\\" who has just killed his victim.  She doesn't realize this and goes on her way.  The \\"hitman\\" though realizes that she is too much of a risk and decides to kill her.  After Clare is shot she meets Detective Mike Malchek, who is assigned to her case.  Mike and Clare go on the run to escape the killer ... The rest of the story is about what they have to do to survive. <br />Now why I gave this story five stars.  This book was published in the 1970's under the name of \\"A Running Duck\\" but was re-issued in America in 1978 as \\"Fair Game.\\" I purchased the book when I was only 13 years old and absolutely loved the story.  I'm even embarressed to say but this story was one of the reasons I went into Law Enforcement.  Clare is a tough heroine but you can see that the stress of being hunted slowly breaks her down.  Mike has his own demons to battle and the authors ability to write about his pain and obsession in not only protecting Clare but finding and killing the \\"Hitman\\" is amazing.  The ending is awsome.<br />Try and find the book if you can.  It has not been reprinted since 1978 so it's very hard to find. I had lost my original copy but was recently able to purchase another at a fair price....	2003-03-29
US	52788246	R29F2QOGYDTTI9	0515117102	901663922	Forever in Texas	Books	5	15	17	N	Y	Buy this book if you can....	Ford Colston left his hometown to find a teacher.  After failing to do so he is returning home when he's robbed by Hannah, a woman on the run from killers.  She takes his clothes and leaves but later comes face to face with Ford again.  Trying to start a new life she convinces Ford to let her pretend to be the new school teacher, however when she and Ford are caught kissing they are forced to marry.  Part of the agreement between Ford and Hannah is that in one months time she will leave and Ford will tell the town that she died, therefore becoming a widower.  The rest of the story covers the killers that are still hot on the trail to find her and Ford's mistrust of Hannah, since items are being stolen from the town stores.<br />Now normally I'm pretty picky on Jodi Thomas's female characters, since they all tend to seem whinny or afraid of relationships for no reason.  In this book I feel that Thomas wrote a fairly strong heroine, who at first was afraid of intimacy, but at there is a reason for that and it is explained in the story.  Hannah is able to overcome her fears and wants to be closer to Ford.<br />Now Ford is a sweetie.  He grew up being told he was ugly and had an animal nature.  He always wished for a wife but never thought he would find one that would be able to tolate him.  He's honest and caring but at times did have trouble trusting Hannah but I guess that can be expected.  She did rob him, remember.  The part I like the most was when he kissed her hand in town.  That was incredible.  And when she is pulling her hand away she runs her fingertips across his palm because she couldn't bear to let go.  Now that was intense.<br />If your lucky to find this out of print book buy it, because you won't be disappointed.	2003-03-09
US	52788246	R1ZHYYYLFL4MDC	0373484372	521584074	Wings in the Night: Twilight Phantasies / Twilight Memories / Twilight Illusions	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Triple pleaser....The best vampire stories I've ever found	This book is actually three stories in one.  The first, Twilight Phantasies, is probably my favorite.  It's about Eric, a vampire, who finds his soulmate, Tamara.  She's mortal but is also one of the &quot;Chosen,&quot; those that have a link to certain vampires.  At first Eric fights his attraction but ultimately gives in to his feelings.  As their love blooms, danger lurks around the corner, since a secret goverment agency wants to capture and use for testing all vampires.  In the end Eric has to decide if he wants to keep Tamara for all eternity by changing her into a vampire or risk losing her to mortality.<br />The next story, Twilight Memories, is about Roland, my favorite vampire male.  I've always been partial to the dark brooding type and Roland definately fits the bill.  He sees himself as a monster and closes himself away from feeling emotions.  Enter Rhiannon, a 2000 year old vampire.  She has always loved Roland but has believed that he thought her less than worthy, which is not the case.  Roland has always had feelings for Rhiannon but refuses to admit them to himself or her.  The story revolves around DPI, the goverment agency after vampires.  They have set their sights on Jamie, a young boy being cared for by Roland.  Now it's up to Roland and Rhiannon to protect the child.  <br />Now like I said, Roland was my favorite character but I didn't so much care for Rhiannon.  At times she went from being arrogant to feeling sorry for her self, traits I really hate.  Most of the time she looked down her nose at others and felt she was the most powerful vampire because she's Rhiannon.  Her character was not what I had pictured for Roland.<br />The final story is Twilight Illusions, the story of Damien and Shannon.  Shannon believes that Damien killed her friend Tawney. What she discovers is an attraction she didn't expect.  Damien, who is believed to be the oldest vampire, fights the feelings he has for Shannon.  Now this is where it becomes interesting.  Shayne incorperates the story of &quot;The Epic of Gilgamesh&quot; into her vampire story.  I remembered the Gilgamesh from a collage mythology class and because of that really enjoyed the book.  I'm not going to tell any more because it would give away the story so if you want to find out you have to buy the book.	2003-03-09
US	52788246	RVYERU9YH2DAF	0505522659	380256462	Knight of a Trillion Stars (Futuristic Romance)	Books	1	20	25	N	N	I had high hopes.....BUT	I could go into the premise of the book but I think it's been pretty much covered in the other reviews.  Instead I'll talk about what I liked and disliked about the book.<br />I had high hopes when I first purchased the book.  The story about an alien ending up in this woman's apartment sounded pretty good.  And I will admit it was rather funny the first few chapters but then it went downhill.<br />Not only was the female lead, Deanne, pathetic, indecisive and weak but the male lead was hopelessly arrogant and macho.  Not that I don't like men that are secure in themselves but Lorgin, the male lead, totally frustrated me.  Deanne had absolutely no back bone when it came to dealing with Lorgin and whenever she did try and assert herself, Lorgins response was to have sex with her until she changed her mind, and change it she did.  Now I'm not a femanist but I do believe in compromise, however with Lorgin there was none.  It was either his way or...his way.  Period.<br />I'm going to try and read \\"Rejar\\" because I purchased that book at the same time and I'm hoping it will be a better read.  Hopefully I will not have to struggle reading \\"Rejar\\" the same way I did \\"Knight of a Trillion Stars.\\"	2003-02-28
US	52788246	R11NUEGMYNHLF	184360163X	758525583	The Possession	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Very Hot	The premise is pretty simple.  Kris and Jack have secretly lusted over each other.  Kris finally decides to do something daring and erotic and signs up to be a submissive at an island resort.  Little does she know that Jack is going to be there also.  Once Jack realizes that Kris is there he ultimately \\"buys\\" her and for the next few days they have incredible sex.  Its a very hot read if your into erotic.<br />Also read \\"Vanished\\" by Jaid Black which you can download on Ellorascave.com.  It's about a young woman who has car trouble and is \\"kidnapped\\" by an escaped convict.  What happens next to pretty hot! It's probably one of my favorites and after reading it I pretty much attacked my poor husband :-)	2003-02-25
US	52788246	R11DOOIGWY99VG	0804119724	447468621	Into the Night (Troubleshooters, Book 5)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	The heroine left much to be desired....	Where to start. This book actually has three stories interwoven. Two of them made sense but the third could have been left out. Story one is about Mike Muldoon and Joan DaCosta. Joan is the press secretary for the President and Mike is the SEAL assigned to show her around the military base and prepare for the coming military demo. Now Mike was an absolute dream. He was handsome, funny and sweet. His character treated Joan so well that I wanted to become a character in the book and take her place. However, Joan left much to be desired. She treated him poorly and he kept coming back. I could NOT see what he saw in her and thats what made it very hard for me to finish the book. Joan always kept backing away from the relationship. If it wasn't the problem she had with the age difference (she's 7 years older than Mike) it was the career thing and the weight thing. I finally just wanted to send her to therapy. <br />Now the next story is about Mary Lou, Sam and Alyssa which I guess is the on-going love triangle. I haven't read the other books in this series so I felt sorry for Mary Lou even though it appears she trapped Sam into their marriage. This story is interwoven with Mike and Joan because it leads the reader to believe that Mary Lou, who is VERY emotionally unstable, is targeted and manipulated by the terrorists in the story, who are preparing to attack the President. I won't say more because this will take away from the whole story. <br />Now the third story I saw no reason to have. Its about Vince and Charlotte. It's basically a retro story where Vince and Charlotte have flash backs to their relationship during WWII. I didn't really care about this and will admit that I just skipped those parts.<br />I took away one star for Joan and one star for the Vince/Charlotte story. Other than that it was well written.	2003-01-18
US	52788246	RGF7EUNUO9GZI	0515134007	828660610	The Texan's Wager (The Wife Lottery)	Books	4	15	17	N	N	The hero was wonderful	This is a story about the wife lottery.  Three women confess to murder but since the sheriff can't find the body he gives them a choice.  Stay in jail or participate in the wife lottery.  Bailee, one of the woman, agrees and is won by Carter, a very quiet farmer.  The story is mainly about their relationship and its growth however there is some action in the story which include train robbery and revenge.<br />Now I really loved Carter.  I loved the way Thomas developed his character.  Why he doesn't speak (that often), why his home is like a fortress, and why the town shuns him.  I felt so much heart ache for his character that even when I finished the book his story remained with me.  And I loved the parts about how he would tell Bailee his feeling (I'm not going to give away the secret but it's pretty clear within the first several chapters).<br />Now Bailee is the one I have a problem with.  At times I really liked her but at others I just wanted to smack her.  I think the main problem was her fear of intimacy.  At first I thought maybe she had been abused or raped and that would explain her actions toward Carter but it turned out just to be low self esteem and feeling no one ever wanted her.  Maybe in the begining it was ok but after the way Carter treated her so sweatly I could not figure out why she didn't losen up.  This is why I gave the story only 4 stars instead of 5.<br />I can't wait for Sam and Sarahs story but I'm hoping that Sarah's character isn't going to be like Bailee.  That would be a disappointment but still probably a good read.	2003-01-04
US	52788246	R20HDBMI3HHHA0	0380817853	751806563	Secret Vows	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Great read	This story is about Catherine and Grayston and is set in the 13th century.  Grayson, a powerful lord, is ordered by the King to marry Elise to try and stop a conflict between her brother Eduard and Grayson.  Grayson has no choice but to agree.  However the bride that comes to him is not Elise but is Elise's widowed sister-in-law Catherine.<br />Eduard, a very nasty person and makes my top ten bad guy list, decides that since the King has ordered the marriage of his sister Elise to Grayson he would have her set him up to be murdered several months after their vows.  That way no one would suspect Eduards or Elises involvement and Graysons property would then become his.<br />Elise, having been severely abused by Eduard and not wanting to be an accessory to Graysons murder, commits suicide, leaving Eduard in a quandry.  That's when Catherine comes into the picture.  Since Grayson, or anyone for that matter, has never really seen Catherine before, he beats Catherine for days to submit to his murderous plot.  She refuses until he kidnaps and threatens to kill her children.  She is then forced to comply and assumes the role of Elise.  The story continues with relationship developement and some good action scenes.  Both characters have their own problems to work out, which is done pretty smoothly.<br />This story also has an interesting twist which really hooked me.  The prologue starts in first person, as if Catherine was writing the reader a letter.  You could really feel Catherine's pain and hopelessness in the writings.  The first chapter then goes into 3rd person.  <br />This book will definately be a keeper of mine for a long time.	2003-01-04
US	52788246	R3SYYRA7VCE9XO	0425076660	129991168	My True and Tender Love	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Interesting Premise	This is a sequel to \\"The Wayward Heart.\\"  Bryony and Jim Logan, who married in \\"The Wayward Heart\\" return.  This was actually an interesting premise since it's a continuation from the first story.  <br />After three months of marriage Jim has had his fill of Bryony's impulsiveness.  When she has a miscarrage as a result of her impulsive behavior, Jim has had enough.  What ensues is a huge fight and Jim says some VERY mean things.  She rushes out into the night and gets kidnaped by some indians.  She is ultimately released and is being escorted back to her home when her traveling party is attacked and she gets amnesia.  She is taken by two men, who are bent on revenge toward Jim, and told she is the wife of one of them.  Jim, who believes she is dead and who has been blaming himself for what happened to Bryony, sees her standing on a hill.  He rushes over to her but she doesn't recognize him.  Thus starts his war on trying to reclaim what he had so carelessly thrown away.<br />It's a very emotional book that brings alot of heartache to the reader.  Since this is one of Gregory's early writings you can see her writing ability really progress.  There is a rape scene toward the end but it is done in such a way that it will not take away from the book and it is unfortunately necessasary for the plot.  All in all if your looking for a tear jerker this would be the one.	2002-12-22
US	52788246	R2A0XG2CAT7FZF	037361358X	76485811	An Arranged Marriage (Lone Star Country Club)	Books	3	8	8	N	Y	The heroine left much to be desired	Here's the story in a nut shell.  Clay Martin, a Texas Ranger, needs money to fix up his ranch.  He makes a deal with Ford Carson, where he agrees to marry his headstrong daughter (Fiona)<BR>for a sizable amount of money.  Headstrong is not the word I would use to describe this spoiled brat.  They end up marrying and as with any novel they fall in love in the end.  <br />Now I really loved Clay Martin.  Being a homicide detective myself I really appreciated how the author described how personal his murder cases were to him.  Especially when he told his selfish new wife, Fiona, to pound sand when she whinned about him being late for their reception party because god forbid he was interrogating a sexual preditor that had been arrested.  <br />The real problem I had with the book was Fiona.  It was hard for me to believe that she had been so pampered in her life that she didn't even know how to make a bed.  She threw tantrums, acted like a 7 year old and even went so far as getting herself arrested.  It was very hard for me to believe, even for a jaded detective like myself, that there could be someone like this in existence.  She did get better toward the end but by then I really didn't like her character that much.<br />The author did write an excellent male character who was strong, intelligent, had a sense of humor, and who really seemed to care. I just wish that the lead female character had been better. Fiona is the reason for 3 stars but Clay is the reason I will read the book again.  He is the perfect hero.	2002-12-16
US	52788246	R3KZWTS2VAGQAB	0380803313	329588049	Never Marry a Cowboy (Rogues in Texas)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Faithful fan of Lorraine Heath	I am a huge fan of Lorraine Heath and have been following the saga of the English gentlemen in Texas.  So here's the skinny on this book.  This is the final in a trilogy and is the story about Christian (Kit) Montgomery.  In the previous two books (&quot;A Rogue in Texas&quot; and &quot;Never Love a Cowboy&quot;) you learned that he was the second born son of an English nobleman, which means he will not take control of the estate when his father dies.  He also was not allowed to marry the woman he loved who married his brother Christopher instead.  Unfortunately Clarissa, the woman he was in love with in England, dies a painful death so Kit travels to America with his two friends (Grayson and Harry).  Kits friends eventually find happiness and marry however Kit remains alone in his own grief over the death of Clarissa.  Kit eventually becomes a Marshall of a small town and is approached by David Robinson, a friend, who asks him to marry his dying sister, Ahston.  Kit eventually agrees to marry Ashton, whom he had met a few years earlier.  Unknown to Kit, Ashton had been secretly in love with him all that time.  As Kit and Ashton become closer Kit realizes he might not be able to deal with her impending death as easily as he thought.  There is adventure during the story as they suffer through a stage coach accident and a shootout in their small town.  Toward the end however Kit finally reveals what really happened to Clarissa and how she actually died (can't tell ya or it will spoil the story). Also, Christopher arrives from England with a little surprise of his own. <br />Now onto why I only gave this four stars. I was a little disappointed in Ashtons character.  I was really looking forward to Kits story and expected the heroine to be stronger based upon the charachter development of Kit in the earlier stories.  I also did not like how Ashton turned against Kit when he revealed his secret to her.  He did what he had to, out of love for Clarissa and I was dissapointed that Ashton could not see this until she thought Kit was going to die in the shootout.  I did like the secondary story involving Christopher and Elizabeth (whom you were introduced to in &quot;A Rogue in Texas&quot;). Other than that it was a good read and I look forward to Lorraine Heaths new book &quot;The Outlaw and the Lady&quot; coming in November of 2001.  Heath always writes very emotional books that just make you want to cry.	2001-03-08
US	52788246	RIWAKPELB8HW0	0451406621	532895812	The Angel Knight	Books	5	26	26	N	Y	Wonderful....	Here's the scoope.  The time is 1307 and Lady Christian has been imprisoned in a cage and left to die.  Sir Gavin arrives and ultimately removes her from her prison and marries her, believing she is will die from  her sickness (this was the kings demand of Sir Gavin to spare her life).   However, she lives and soon realizes she is married to an Englishman (she  is Scottish).  The next half of the book shows her coming to deal with her  new &quot;English&quot; husband.  Her hatred of him dwindles away because,  I have to admit, he is such a sweetie.  He treats her the way we would all  wish to be treated (with love and respect). However, she still has strong  ties to her family and she does make a very bad choice, causing hurt to the  man she now loves. There is also excitement in the book while the reader  tries to figure out if the myth of treasure in the castle actually exist  and where it could be hidden.  I'm rather partial to this book since the  hero reminds me of my husband (when I told him this he blushed, smiled and  grunted, then walked away.  I guess the grunting is some secret male  language).  Susan King is an excellent writer who is able to pull at your  heart strings and make you wish you were back in that time.	2000-07-04
US	52788246	R3TSGMQ74F3YIL	0380803305	541388073	Never Love a Cowboy (Rogues in Texas)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Heartbreaking but I love it....	Ok.  I think I love all of Lorraine Heaths books but this is one of my favorites.  Harry, an Englishman, came to America with two of his friends (Kit and Gray) to make something of himself.  Having been mistreated as a  young child by his mother, Harry doesn't believe in love.  During the first  book in the trilogy (A Rogue in Texas), where his friend Gray finds the  woman of his dreams and gets married, he meets Jessye.  She's a no nonsense  woman who says it like it is, even if it's not the nicest or most  appropriate.  They clash but ultimately become friends.  In &quot;Never  Love a Cowboy&quot; the story continues and they become closer.  However,  tragedy strikes, and what the characters go through is heartbreaking (I  won't tell you, you'll just have to read the book).  I love Harry who is  the perfect gentleman (I'd love to know where they got the model for the  inside book cover).  All I can say is that Lorraine Heath is an outstanding  author who really knows how to bring feelings into a book.  I can't wait  for the final book (Kits story).  It won't be released until January of  next year.   :-(	2000-07-04
US	52788246	R1AURPW73WUO13	0671737791	378094364	The Bride	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	The Best!	Ok..Here's the scoop. I love almost all of Julie Garwood's books (except \\"Gentle Warrior\\" - I didn't like the characters) but this is by far her best. A Scotsman, \\"Alec,\\" comes down to look for a wife and decides on \\"Jaime.\\"  The following story is about their relationship and how they work through their marriage.<br />Jamie (the heroine) is an absolute doll. I laughed throughout the entire book with her escapades. I was laughing so hard I even frightened my husband. The part when she smacked the horse in the face or when she took the club that was almost as big as her to \\"knock the guy off his feet\\" was priceless. Alec (our hero) is so sweet that you wish he really existed. The end was so cute when Alec buys Jaime to keep her with him.<br />If you want a very well written book that not only has humor but also suspense and romance, buy this one. It's definately a keeper.	2000-02-01
US	52788246	R5EKW6F1EMITK	0553569090	90615437	Surrender to a Stranger	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Very Disappointed	Having read Ms. Monks other books I was very disappointed with this one.  Try as I might I could not like the heroine.  She was not only spoiled but stupid.  Throughout the first half of the book she constantly refers to her  being from a privilaged family as &quot;god's will&quot;.  She even goes  beyond being naive and believes everything she is told which ultimately  puts the hero in danger.  If you want a good Karyn Monk book try reading  &quot;Once a Warrior&quot;.  The characters flow together and you actually  feel like your part of the story.  My second choice would be &quot;The  Witch and the Warrior&quot;.  Good supernatural storyline.	1999-12-28
US	52788246	R26277F0FRD6N4	0425171078	81293212	The More I See You (de Piaget Family)	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	One of her best books.	I absolutely loved this book.  The characters were well developed and the storyline was great.  I loved how the author addressed the physical and emotional abuse Richard went through as a child and how Jessica had to heal  his soul before they could truely be happy.  Because I read so often it is  very rare for me to feel emotion for the characters but this book did it to  me.  Buy the book and become part of the story.  It is definately a keeper.   Also read &quot;Stardust of Yesterday.&quot;  That book had me laughing  out loud and the part where Kendrick gives his love a ring made me cry (my  husband now thinks I'm a loon).  Happy reading.	1999-12-28
US	52788246	R2MEVGEJS5B7KC	0373270100	409094385	Imminent Thunder (Silhouette Shadows, #10)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Incredible ghost / love story !!	I could not put this book down. The characters were wonderful and you really feel the pain the hero goes through with his special gift (or should I say curse). <br />Honor, a nurse, begins to see and feel strange things in her new home causing her to run to Ian, her reclusive next door neighbor for help.  Ian doesn't really like contact with people because of his \\"strange\\" ablility but feels he must help Honor.  While they try to figure out what is happening they feel a powerful attraction between each other that they can't deny.  Find the book if you can because this is definately a keeper. I've read it about 20 times....	1999-07-19
