US	52780455	RWMYLSHDCHIEJ	0849944821	394385721	Unspoken	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Amazing; recommended, but with reservations	Unspoken was an excellent book, for many reasons.  The descriptions of the sign language and the ways Sema, the gorilla, used it were extraordinary.  Hunt seems to have research her material well, and she present Glee in a firmly scientific, yet also real, manner.  Sema is also characterized quite well.  In being able to \\"speak,\\" she takes on the role of a small child, and an endearing one at that. <br />The plot revolves largely around the zoo that owns Sema demanding her return, and Glee adjusting to a job at said zoo in order to be near Sema and continue her research.  Much of the actions in the book come from Glee's maternal determination not to let anyone harm her \\"girl\\", and the zoo director's equally strong determination to exploit Sema to enhance the zoo's reputation.   <br />The latter third of the book seems somewhat rushed, and the last 20 pages especially so.  While Hunt adeptly handles the subject matter of animals and God, she does so quickly, and it seems more of a subplot, instead of the entire plot itself.  The subsequent denouement is, as said, especially rushed.  The book however does finish well; its ending is the only one that could keep the characters from stagnating in a status quo, and is ultimately satisfying. <br />Bottom Line:  Although the end is rushed, and the God plot isn't as strong as it could be, the characterizations and the detail of Sema's learning and personality, as well as the uniqueness of the story, more than make up for any deficiencies.  Definitely recommended.	2005-07-31
US	52780455	R1CI1IKUV7OIJC	0758204973	86372977	The Actor's Guide To Adultery	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Excellent, funny mystery!	This second novel in the Jarrod Jarvis series definitely holds its own.  Jarrod narrates with style, wit, and panache, and we honestly  care about him, his relationship with LAPD boyfriend Charlie, and the other characters.  There's even a hunky ex-Navy SEAL with the hots for Jarrod thrown in for good measure... <br /> <br /> <br />The plot largely concerns Jarrod's manager and best friend, dynamo Laurette, and her newly-found, and hastily-married, actor husband Juan Carlo.  Following a murder at the wedding, it becomes clear that Juan Carlo is sleeping with everybody in sight, of both genders, Jarrod takes the job of an extra on Juan Carlo's new movie in South Florida to keep an eye on him.  Mayhem ensues as Jarrod tries to solve the murder and figure out Juan Carlo's infidelities while escaping his own childhood stalker, recently released from prison, and dodging the advances of a hot ex-Navy SEAL.  Through it all, his relationship with longtime boyfriend Charlie starts to crack, and may crumble before the murderer is unmasked. <br /> <br /> <br />Bottom Line:  Definitely a great read.  Having finished it in one day myself, I can attest to its appeal.  Light and breezy enough to make you laugh, with enough mystery and suspense to make you want to keep going straight through to the end.  This novel serves to support the gay mystery genre.	2005-07-31
US	52780455	R1WNA49E9N4A8Q	0380819651	490396774	Tiles and Tribulations (Den of Antiquity)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	A great way to get back into mysteries	This novel gave me a great way (and excuse!) to get back into cozy mysteries.  Since The Cat Who... books have become basically plotless, and other cozy authors have died or stopped putting out as many books, I had really given up on reading mysteries...then along came Tamar Myers and her great Den of Antiquity books! <br /> <br />I won't summarize the plot, as it has been done several times before, and in the amazon.com summary.  However, I will say that it is inventive, and highly interesting.  The way the author weaves the narrator's knowledge of antiques into the storyline is superb! <br /> <br />In addition, the author's knowledge of Charleston is extraordinary.  Although it can become a little tiresome hearing about how great \\"the Holy City\\" is, I feel as though I've really come to understand Charleston geography (bothn topographically and socially) by reading these books.  Besides all of this, they are simply a hoot!  From the narrator's friend's preposterous Shelby stories (think of Rose from \\"the Golden Girls\\" and her tales of St. Olaf) to the narrator's mother (think of \\"I Love Lucy\\"), the humor is great. <br /> <br />Bottom Line:  This series brought me back to the mystery genre, through its great plot, setting, and characters.  I laughed out loud more often with this novel than I have in a long time.  Whether you're looking for a way to get back into mysteries, a new series, or simply a read for the beach, this book is definitely worth it!	2005-05-23
US	52780455	RXG3990C3MPZ8	055321263X	115882645	The Woman in White (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Excellent suspense novel that holds up well today	Wilkie Collins's The Woman in White is an excellent suspense novel written over 100 years ago.  It's 650 pages, and has the relatively wordy passages indicative of that era.  How then, you ask, could it be that suspenseful?  My response:  Read it and see!  I found myself reading 200 pages a day in it, simply refusing to put it down, as I HAD to find out what happened to these characters. <br /> <br /> <br />And speaking of characters, what about them?  Victorian novels are renowned for their character development, and this one is no exception.  The protagonist, Walter Hartwright--a drawing instructor--is the perfect English gentleman, sometimes maddeningly so.  While he explains what is happening and the proper course of action, the villains are running around wreaking their havoc.  Walter's partner in good is Marian Halcombe, the driving force of the novel.  She's more decisive than Walter, more courageous, and more determined than anyone else.  Think of her as Scarlett O'Hara, but without Scarlett's flaws.  At one point the villain even says that as long as Marian is against him, he must work harder than ever before!  The villain himself, Count Fosco, is one of the most wonderful creations in literature.  Collins melds the character--a mass of contradictions--perfectly, creating the consummate villain:  witty, urbane, knowledgeable, always ahead of the good guys, and seemingly able to be in two places at one time.  The only weak character in the novel is Laura, around whom the plot revolves.  However, even though everything hinges on her, she's not actually in the novel that much, so her lack of development is barely noticed. <br /> <br /> <br />The novel, as other reviewers have said, requires some suspension of belief.  Two unrelated women look like twins.  One of them changes so much from grief that her family doesn't recognize her.  People happen to be frequenlty at just the right place at the right time.  However, none of this seriously detracts from the novel.  The suspense is marvellous! <br /> <br /> <br />The plot is very complex.  In a very brief synopsis, Marian and Laura become the victim of an apparent perfect crime.  They and Walter must find a way out of it, as a mysterious woman in white (the titular character) seems desperate to share a secret with them.  Is it what they need?  The novel, however, is so much more than that!  As twenty narrators provide their parts in events first-hand (one picks up as the other leaves off chronologically), the suspense mounts! <br /> <br /> <br />Bottom Line:  Get this excellent suspense novel, and don't let the length or publication year deter you!  The Victorian Era adds to the great characters, each of whom is so real that I made comparisons with people I actually know.  The language, while somewhat stilted, is quite readable and intriguing, and in no way, deters from the suspense.  You'll find yourself unable to put the book down; there's a reason it hasn't gone out of print in 150 years!	2005-01-26
US	52780455	RZXN4HDQ1SH5D	0143035002	289712823	Anna Karenina	Books	3	14	25	N	N	OK, but not really worth all the time required	I read Anna Karenina a few years ago after reading War &amp; Peace because people say that Anna is supposed to be the better book.  They lied.  Anna Karenina isn't terrible, but that could be because it doesn't have enough going on to actually register for the &quot;terrible&quot; mark.  The title character never shows up for 80 pages, and even then she is only in it marginally.<br /><br />There are two parallel plots in this book:  a happy marriage and an unhappy one.  Anna is involved in the unhappy one and decides to have an affair as a diversion.  Naturally, she falls apart, is racked with guilt, and can't stand herself.  She inevitably goes from being on the verge of making an intelligent decision to doing something incredibly foolish.<br /><br />The happy marriage involved Levin, a gentleman farmer, and Kitty, the object of his affections.  Of course, pure happiness is dull to read about, so Tolstoy throws in a little plot:  Levin can't bring himself to declare his love to Kitty.  Therefore, he declares it to himself in every possible manner on this earth, and we are privy to all of them.  While the one-person love scenes are touching for a while, they quickly grow old.  Levin is also Tolstoy's voice for the author's own slightly skewed political and social views.  You can skip most things Levin says, as they relate to politics in 19th-century rural Russia.<br /><br />As said, the novel is all right, but it really isn't worth the time required.  While there is a plot, and it is interesting, it doesn't hold up for 700+ pages.  There are many stereotypes in this book:  the guilt-ridden adultress (Anna), the non-responsive male paramour (the Count), the boorish husband, the love-hungry and tongue-tied suitor (Levin), and the oblivious suitee (Kitty), and they almost make the entire novel seem like one big cliche.<br /><br />Bottom Line: If Oprah's trying to introduce the classics, she could have picked a better one.  While this one is serviceable, the length, stereotype characters, and the long descriptive passages can be a turn-off to practically everyone.characters, and the long descriptive passages can be a turn-off to practically everyone.	2004-06-02
US	52780455	RU0EMME18MNFI	0553801619	95317864	Whisker of Evil: A Mrs. Murphy Mystery	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Wonderful, but not the best in the series	Rita Mae Brown, along with her cat Sneaky Pie, writes excellent mysteries set in the small town of Crozet, Virginia, with Mary Minor &quot;Harry&quot; Harristeen, the local postmistress, as the protagonist.  Helping her are her three pets, Mrs. Murphy and Pewter--the cats--and Tucker--the corgi.  All three animals carry on lively conversations and investigate along with Harry, even though none of the humans can understand them.<BR><br />This mystery concerns the death of Barry Monteith, a local horse breeder.  Even more mysterious is that fact that Barry, although viciously murdered, was also infected with rabies.  Harry soon finds the class ring of Mary Pat Reines, a local horsebreeder who disappeared in 1967 with her prize stallion.  Two more deaths soon follow, and the entire close-knit town is shaken, trying to discover the murderer and the source of Barry's rabies.<BR><br />The only flaw with this book, and the reason I didn't give it 5 stars, is the author's fascination with horses.  An excellent horsewoman (horseperson?) herself, she includes quite a bit of breeding information in the novel, which is interesting until she goes on for several pages about it.  You can't skip it, though--there are clues enclosed in it.  Fans of the series will do fairly well with the information, as Brown has given us a great deal about horses in all of her books, but it does drag after a while.<BR><br />This book is very integral to the series, and many events that affect the entire series take  place in it.  For this reason, I don't recommend it to new readers.  Pick up &quot;Wish You Were Here&quot; or &quot;Rest in Pieces,&quot; the first two books in the series.  Not only will you get the horse information, but you'll be better introduced to the marvelous cast of characters.  Brown always includes a cast of characters in her novels--one that encompasses both animals and people--but you'll love getting the history of the characters!<BR><br />Bottom Line:  An excellent cozy for small-town people, cat-lovers, horse-lovers, anyone!  Series-altering events take place in it, though, so it's not recommended for first-time readers.  Other than that, enjoy the wonderful 3-dimensional characters and excellent plot!	2004-05-14
US	52780455	R21MGWXV9XLHMH	0385034407	786720640	Miller's High Life	Books	4	33	34	N	N	Excellent book told in the inimitable Miller style	Ann Miller, one of the most underappreciated stars of the Golden age, tells all in this book.  Focusing on her childhood and her personal life, she recounts memories with a disarming cheeky style that became her trademark.  While more information about her work would have been nice, it's great to have Miller by Miller since no other real biography exists.  We hear a lot about boyfriends, her fascination with spirituality, and her work as a goodwill ambassador.<br /><br />Bottom Line: An excellent book by Miller, told in her trademark cheeky style.  While short on professional details, it's great for private ones and shouldn't be missed by any Miller fan. (great pics, too!)	2004-04-13
US	52780455	R1R3BRW66Z98HN	0399151648	583255343	Kate Remembered	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Excellent book about Kate, but a bit too much about author..	First, this book is a very good look at Katharine Hepburn's life.  It is not a meticulously researched, cross-referenced, 1000-page bio, nor does it claim to be.  It's more about Kate's later years and how those years tie into the rest of life, giving insights on why she was as she was.  There are some entertaining anecdotes about Hollywood stars (Michael Jackson and Warren Beaty using her as social climbers) and some touching ones (Howard Hughes being deaf as the underlying reason for his insanity).  Most readers of this biography won't find much new information, maybe a few new details, but no actual new events.<BR><br />As for the downside (and reason it's not 5 stars), the author works himself into the book a bit too much.  Generally, it's in relation to Kate in some way, such as how he couldn't see when in later years because he was writing, but there's a bit too much about A. Scott Berg.  At the beginning, he gives several blatant facts about himself (he meditates twice a day, as he will tell you often in the first 50 pages) and the people he knows (very chummy with L.B. Mayer's daughter), but again, the references are generally related to Hepburn in some way.<BR><br />The one very unique quality about this book is that it gives an &quot;insider's&quot; view of Kate's life.  Even though Berg obviously glosses over a few things, it's still the Kate in her kitchen, the Kate outside gardening, and the Kate of real human emotions.  The flip side of this inside view, though, is the look at Hepburn's last few years, a time when she really deteriorated.  It's pitying to see her losing her mind and her physical strengths, and I could have done without it.  Berg almost uses it in a way to evoke emotional impact about Hepburn--really the only part of the book that seems to be tabloid-fare--but it's still heart-wrenching in the last few pages.<BR><br />Bottom Line: This is a solid, if lighthearted, look at Hepburn's career.  The author sticks himself into the book frequently, but it's usually used to advance the story.  Wonderful for the anecdotes alone.	2004-01-11
US	52780455	RWBEGL83CES87	0345325818	619220705	The Silmarillion	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Slow Going, but good if you make it through	Having read The Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit, I thought I would give Tolkien's tale of the First Age of Middle-Earth a try.  This is about the time before the Rings were made, about the very beginnings of Middle-Earth.  Tolkien begins in Genesis style, and the entire book reads like the Bible, something between King James and the NIV.  Sometimes the sentences are a little hard to understand because of a lack of comma stops and other punctuation, but you quickly get accustomed to it.  Anyway, the first bit is very Gensis-like, depicting the creation of Middle-Earth and the gods and goddesses.  Then the Elves awake and go to live with the gods, very Garden of Eden.<BR><br />After some of the Elves leave the gods, the story shows that the action and plot has increased, but the stilted writing style keeps it from being as involved as The Lord of the Rings.  There is definitely a plot to this and it is very interesting, but it is clear that Tolkien wrote it to be a history of Middle-Earth, and it reads rather like a history book.  Still, the storyline is there, and it is good--you just have to slough through the writing and keep up with countless people and places (fortunately, there's an index to help!)<BR><br />Bottom Line: Excellent for more hard-core fans who want a history of Middle-Earth, as this one answers several questions raised in The Lord of the Rings, but beware--it is a history, and it reads like one.	2004-01-11
US	52780455	R1P4DKZ66PYZ2P	0609807595	900748808	Gaborabilia: An Illustrated Celebration of the Fabulous, Legendary Gabor Sisters	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	A complete Coffee Table book, but who cares??!!	This tribute to the fabulous, witty Gabor sisters (and mother) is truly the ultimate fan's tribute.  Practicaly everything in the book is from the author's personal collection.  Bursting with photos, memorabilia, and classic quips, this book is a visual extravaganza with color and glamour everywhere, much like the excellent Gabors.  Of course, the book, by its very nature, has a limited audience, and if you're viewing this, you're probably committed to buying the book, but let me encourage you:  Get it now.<BR><br />Bottom Line: While short on biographical info (see  &quot;Such Devoted Sisters&quot; for that), this book is full of frosting and glamour, the perfect tribute to the frothy Gabor family.	2004-01-07
US	52780455	R3TMZ45DZXI8D2	0553278193	160604278	Fer-de-Lance (Nero Wolfe)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Great beginning for an outstanding series	The Nero Wolfe series is absolutely outstanding, and this book serves as a good introduction for it.  The plot concerns an Italian immigrant and a university president who have just been killed.  Although there seems to be no link between the two, Wolfe discovers it and exploits it to expose a killer.<BR><br />Don't expect an Agatha Christie or Sherlock Holmes plot for this novel--Stout wrote good mysteries, but his gems are in his characters.  Wolfe, the overweight, orchid-loving, car-fearing gourmand, and his sidekick Archie, the epitome of the 1930's fast-talking, sarcastic detective, are lovable right from the beginning.  Although Stout still has a few details to work out, the set-up is the same in this book as it is in the last.  That isn't to say Stout didn't improve it--he didn't have to; it was perfect from the start.  He achieved the rare find in the world of mystery--FOUR-dimensional characters in a plausible setting with a credible mystery.<BR><br />Bottom Line: Serves as a good introduction, but don't expect a great mystery, just exemplary characters!!  Make certain you get the Bantam Crime Line edition--it comes with an introduction and trivia about Nero Wolfe at the end of the novel--great for either the beginning reader or the long-time fan.	2003-12-31
US	52780455	R2R91MPK4D7MU8	0765349671	39666025	The Da Vinci Legacy	Books	1	9	13	N	N	Does Amazon offer a Zero Stars option?	This book, written in 1983, has been updated and re-released to capitalize on the popularity of Dan Brown's phenomenal &quot;The da Vinci Code.&quot; As a fan of that book, I bought this one, interested by the tag line.  Don't make the same mistake!!  There are no dramas, no amazing revelations, and no hidden secrets at all.<BR><br />First, the discrepancies: as said, the book was updated, and is supposed to take place in 2012, as 9/11 is mentioned as having taken place twelve years previously.  The author didn't quite update everything, though. There's a reference to the main character being in college in 1966, making him seventy during the book's events!  Also, the main character's name is Vance Erikson, not Curtis Davis as the back of the book reads.  I realize this is picky of me, but if they don't even give it that much attention to detail, think about the rest of it...<BR><br />Da Vinci is hardly mentioned, the &quot;secret dating to the beginning of Christianity&quot; is a subversive Catholic group (picture the IRA as Catholics), and the character lack even one dimension.  Their actions are not logical, and there are big holes.<BR><br />The action in the book does not serve to further the plot, instead it is used a mind-numbing filler that grinds the story to a screeching halt.  Nothing comes of the action, no new information is gained, and the characters always walk away happy and content.<BR><br />Don't be fooled by the book's first few pages (i.e., the only interesting ones in this 385-page bore).  I only finished it to get to the amazing revelations, but unfortunately there aren't any.<BR>[...]	2003-12-30
US	52780455	R6AXXB448TD7L	0060581727	773653315	Katharine Hepburn Once Said...: Great Lines to Live By	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Good, Interesting Quotes, A Few Pics--But That's It!	This book of Katharine Hepburn quotes, both from her movies and her own sharp wit, is lovingly done and beautifully presented with several black-and-white photographs of the actress, most of which are publicity stills.  The main problem with the book: there are no attributions to the quotes, and no info on Hepburn herself.  There is a bibiliography, so if you're really meticulous (or a little odd), you can research everything and get the dates of the quotes; otherwise, you're left high and dry as to information about the material.<BR><br />There is also very little info on the actress herself, just a very short (2-3 pages in an undersized hardcover) snippet of a biography.  There is also no speculation on the quotes themselves.  While that gives the readers free range for interpretation, again, knowing the dates would have been nice.<BR><br />The reason I gave it four stars instead of three: one of the pictures in the beginning of the book.  It may appear elsewhere, but I don't know.  It has Hepburn sitting in a plane with a flight helmet on.  If you don't have this picture, buy the book just for it alone--talk about those cheek bones!!!  Hepubrn looks even more sculpted than usual!<BR><br />Bottom Line: Worth the &quot;Used and New&quot; discounted price for the novelty of it, and that one picture.  Otherwise, it's a complete coffee table book.	2003-11-10
US	52780455	R3A8OEN8SXKZHX	1572703016	214073844	Plot It Yourself (Mystery Masters Series)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Perhaps the BEST Nero Wolfe I've Read	With an intriguing plot, summarized elsewhere, this is perhaps the best Nero Wolfe I've read.  The characters are wonderful, Archie and Wolfe are in very fine form, and the mystery is superb.  You'll be surprised at the killer, and Wolfe actually shows respect for the murderer.  You almost think that Wolfe would rather not convict him/her.<BR><br />Bottom line:  Excellent, perhaps the best Stout, with a wonderful killer you almost feel sorry for.	2003-11-07
US	52780455	R37LXF04QRQ9HA	0553763113	444734746	Murder by the Book (Nero Wolfe)	Books	4	25	27	N	N	Very Good, But It Has a Flaw	This mystery is wonderful, whether you are a new Stout fan or an old afficionado.  Since the other reviewers have discussed the plot, I won't delve into it much.  Basically, a man, Leonard Dykes, has written a story and everyone who reads it (he, the woman at the publishing house, and the typist) is killed.  The father of the woman from the publishing house, Joan Wellman, hires Wolfe because he is not satisfied with the police's efforts.  The rest of the story is fairly formulaic for the Stout series:  Wolfe is arrogant, sticks to his schedule, and never leaves the Brownstone.  Archie is sarcastic, lures the women, and is a 1940s man-about-town.<BR><br />There are two differnt things about this story: one good, one bad.  First, the bad: Stout doesn't explain the alibi of the murderer.  The killer says there is one, and Wolfe starts to dispute it, but Cramer stops him.  Therefore, we never find out how the killer contrived the alibi.  This may not bother some, but for me, it's frustrating.  As for the good, Archie's (perhaps) ultimate love interest is found in this book, in the form of a plump, older, married woman.  Don't worry:  Archie does nothing wrong, but he sure does think about it...<BR><br />Bottom line:  Well up to Stout's usual standards, with extra interest.  The flaw, though, keeps it from being five stars.	2003-11-07
US	52780455	R2KW3SFY5TC0BH	0812524713	684301860	1812 (The American Story)	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Best History Book I've Ever Read	This is quite simply the best history book I've ever read, whether it's non-fiction, a textbook, or historical fiction (as this one is), regardless of the time period or country involved.  The book goes very in-depth on the War of 1812 and hits you with constant facts, but you'll never be bored.  It's all presented in story format with lots of dialogue that isn't really very stilted or different from our own.  It sounds more like ours when we're just trying to sound good.  The descriptive passages are exciting and easy to read.<BR><br />Six main people make up the fabric of this novel:  Pres. James and Dolly Madison are in Washington, D.C., running the country and throwing Dolley's famous political balls.  The excitement as Dolley runs from the burning White House is tangible.  Next, is Andrew and Rachel Jackson, first at home in Nashville, TN, and then with Andrew on the warfront.  First, he battles the Seminole Indians in Florida and eventually takes on the British in New Orleans.  Finally, Winfield Scott leads his troops in amazing land victories while getting occasional visits from his Washington girlfriend, the daughter of a newspaper magnate and the only main fictional character in the novel.<BR><br />This book makes you realize, for the first time, what war truly is.  It isn't dropping bombs from the air on nameless and faceless people.  It's seeing your enemy eye-to-eye, and occasionally fighting him hand-to-hand for the sake of your country's survival, amid political turmoil and threat of secession.  Remember:  War is hell!  This book is heaven!	2003-08-13
US	52780455	R1ECH3HS7NZC07	0743439821	563321012	The Serpent's Kiss : A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Sure to Rattle You and Keep You on the Edge of Your Seat	This is an excellent new thriller by a wonderful author.  The plot concerns a series of bizarre killings in San Diego.  Nude men are found strapped to their beds, with evidence of recent sexual actions, with three snake bites on them and strychinnine in their veins.  Detective Moynihan ventures into the seamier side of San Diego life, and eventually has to make a trip to the backwoods of Alabama to visit a small-town and a serpent-handling church with its own deep, dark secret.<BR><br />You'll grimace at the descriptions of the victims (think ebola...) and the fast-paced, but evenly distributed action, will keeps you on the edge of your seat.  There's even something for the romantic, with tales of Moynihan's sexual conquests during the book, sometimes getting rather graphic (occasionally unnecessarily so).<BR><br />The Amazon reviews give the tagline that the book jacket does, extolling it for explaining the mystery of the second woman.  I went into the novel thinking it would be rather like the phenomenol \\"The Da Vinci Code,\\" going in-depth on the Bible's greatest mystery.  The second-woman thing isn't really explored in-depth, though.  It's not really a time-consuming part of the mystery, and is really only used as a minor clue.<BR><br />The only main problem in this book is the main character.  He's an Irish cop whose father was a cop killed in the line of duty.  He's haunted by the memories, is divorced, and his relationship with his son isn't what it could be.  Basically, he's a rather stereotypical character.  Sullivan, however, does flesh him out some, making him an ex-Major League baseball player, and adding some very good and well-drawn side characters to balance.  He also writes with enough style and panache to keep you caring about his slightly hackneyed protagonist, all the way to the gripping, exciting conclusion with even something of an unsolved mystery at the end.	2003-08-13
US	52780455	RBMT8J3A1DQQG	0312967063	230313333	Gin Lane: A Novel of Southampton (Beecher Stowe and Lady Alex Dunraven Novels)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Little plot, but, after all, it is a beach read	This book really doesn't have much of a plot--much less than others in Brady's Hamptons series, but it is still interesting.  It is designed to be a beach read and required minimal effort to understand it.  I read it with this in mind, and found it interesting.  It's the story of an offensive radio personality who has come to ultra-snobby Gin Lane and the various attempts to kill him.  That's it, plotwise, but the dry humor and interesting, if shallow, characters are enough to carry this lightweight novel, if you view it as such: a lightweight novel.	2003-08-09
US	52780455	R1HV54D432NJ0P	0345410092	600963904	Me: Stories of My Life	Books	5	117	119	N	N	Excellent Memoir by an Excellent Lady	I'd had this book sitting on the shelf for several years, and (sadly) had never read it.  Then, Kate the Great died, and I was looking for some means of remembering her fondly.  Me eyes fell on &quot;Me,&quot; and the connectio was perfect.<BR><br />Me is clearly not ghostwritten like so many other autobiographies.  Kate is rather jumpy in places and uses a lot of fragments.  Sometimes it's hard to follow, especially at the beginning, but after a few chapters, it's like talking with an old friend--the abrupy subjects changes enhance, not detract, from the book.<BR><br />If you're looking for insight on her movies, this isn't the book for you.  She gives snippets of several of them, but only goes indepth when it really matters to her overall career (such as A Bill of Divorcement and The Philadelphia Story).  She spends a lot of the book on her childhood, college years, and early Broadway stage experiences.  She talks a lot about her leading men: Cary Grant, John Wayne, Henry Fonda.  She mentions Spencer Tracy throughout the book, but only goes in-depth toward the end when she leaves the house they had shared together for years.<BR>While this isn't a juicy exposee of her life, it's really more enjoyable because it isn't tabloid fare.  It's high-brow, down-to-earth, and, above all, classy, the exact memoir you would expect from Katharine Hepburn.	2003-08-01
US	52780455	R20CMST7V8Z4O4	0446365386	716836572	Gone with the Wind	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Excellent Novel, but It Has Its Flaws	Gone With the Wind is novel of epic proportions, and it does read like a soap opera.  Then again, so does every book this long (try War and Peace sometime).  This book examines a spoiled, ante-bellum socialite who has never had to lift a finger and the way she deals with utter poverty, death, and tragedy all around her.  The book does have its flaws, which I will touch on in a moment, but it should be read simply for Scarlett's struggle.  Yes, she is rude, mean, and a generally selfish and scheming woman, but she also a paragon of strength who simply refuses to bow to anyone.  Throughout the book, people say that Sherman himself should beware of Scarlett, and they're right.<BR><br />Getting away from Scarlett--difficult in this novel--there are several other main characters.  Rhett-the only man she cannot lure with her charms, Ashley-the only man she cannot get with her charms, and Melanie-Ashley's saintly wife--the antithesis of Scarlett, whom Scarlett hates but feels compelled to help.  <BR><br />Much of this book is somewhat depressing, reading about hunger, toiling in the fields, working on the sick, but it does make you appreciate what you have.<BR><br />Now, for the flaws.  First, the big one:  Racism.  Yes, this book is racist, but, for heaven's sake, it was written in 1936 by a woman from Atlanta who had been raised with her antebellum grandmothers.  It's set in the Civil War, and it does accurately portray the feelings of whites at the time.  Some of the black sentiments (&quot;Gee, Miss Scarlett, I wouldn't know what to do without you telling me&quot;) are a little incredulous, but there were some plantation owners who were nice to their slaves.  Of course, the ones who get publicity were the evil ones.  While evil slave owners did exist, this book is not about them, and it should be taken at face value.  No, it isn't politically correct, but it wasn't meant to be.  If you only want politically correct books, then you really can't even read the Bible.<BR><br />Other flaws:  the subjecation of women to men (think of the time era again), the length (some descriptive parts can be skipped), and the many plots (watch the movie as you go to keep it all together).  <BR><br />Other than these few things mentioned, this book is a marvelous example of Southern literature, but don't take it as a historical novel of the Civil War because it wasn't meant to be that.  It's the story of one woman's refusal to surrender to whatever comes her way.  It just happens to take place during the Civil War.  It could have happened during the American Revolution; it just didn't.  Also, it leaves you with a serious debate with yourself:  Scarlett--justified or evil?  Yes, she gets her riches and life back while everyone else mopes, but they eventually get their lives back as well--they just didn't demean themselves.  Rare is the book that makes you question your own thoughts on the main character.	2003-07-29
US	52780455	R1W7T9QJZ1KSQ0	067978330X	289712823	Anna Karenina (Modern Library Classics)	Books	2	8	23	N	N	Read It to Say You've Read It; Then Ditch It	This book is considered to be one of the best classics ever written, and it is...if you consider a classic to be book you dread picking up, a book that doesn't introduce the title character until page 80, and a book that never gets to the point.<br /><br />I read War and Peace and thought it was moderate, but I had heard that Anna Karenina was Tolstoy's best book, so I thought I'd try it.  Trust me; read War and Peace.  While W&P isn't great, it at least has some battle scenes to provide a little action and escape from solid descriptive narrative.  Also, Tolstoy's odd political musings don't start occurring until the second half of the book.<br /><br />In this novel, it is mostly about Tolstoy's views on Russian society and its foibles.  Skip all the farming and hunting chapters; they don't matter.  In fact, skip most things with Levin until he marries Kitty--he's just lovelorn and depressed but won't admit it.  While I'm all for emotion, there's only so many ways to deny love for someone, and Levin discovers them all.<br /><br />In the beginning, Anna is likeable, but as the novel progresses, you're almost waiting for the train, cheering it on, waiting to shove Anna off the platform.  She's the one who commits the adultery and then turns into a spineless, simpering jellyfish.  For some reason, beautiful confident women who commit one sin become blithering idiots in novels while sinful men do not change.  Perhaps Tolstoy is wrongly commenting on women?<br /><br />While this book may be considered a classic, it just simply is not good.  Tolstoy wrote to write a long book.  That's the only reason.  If you want a long book, read \\"Gone with the Wind\\" or \\"The Moonstone.\\"  They have plots and the occasional page of dialogue without two-page paragraphs.  Like I said previosly, read/skim this book to say you've read it and be able to discuss it, but don't plan to enjoy it or give it an honored place on your shelf.  Save that spot for something with at least a modicum of interest.	2003-07-24
US	52780455	R6LBF15VPRI1	0553241222	165685418	A Family Affair (The Rex Stout Library)	Books	2	7	11	N	N	Mystery is Feasible, but Characters Are Horrible	First, the good thing:  The mystery in this book is quite good with an unexpected twist at the end.  <BR><br />Next, the bad things:  While the mystery is good, that's not really the focus in a Nero Wolfe novel.  Stout's murders and solutions never quite compare to Agatha Christie's or Ngaio Marsh's, but their characters never quite compare to Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin.  In fact, those two are the mainstays of Stout's literary genius, but all mainstays must come to an end, and they do in this, Stout's final novel.<BR><br />Granted, he was quite old when he wrote this, but the mystery holds up well.  The characters, however--the part Stout should have been able to do even if half-senile--, do not.  Archie is much, much more serious and barely even resembles his usual wise-cracking self.  Wolfe is more tolerant in general, but when he is being his usual &quot;odd&quot; genius-self, it goes beyond &quot;odd&quot; to just plain bizarre.  <BR><br />The continuity of several things in the series is also disrupted.  They discuss the murder at meals, Wolfe leaves the plant rooms early to meet with a caller who does not have an appointment, and the helpers, Saul, Fred, and Orrie, are also just not right.<BR><br />For the mystery, this book isn't bad, but as far as characterization and continuity are concerned, it's no good.  If you're a die-hard Stout fan, you need to read this book, but don't make it your first Nero Wolfe endeavor.  Try &quot;Fer-de-Lance&quot; or &quot;Some Buried Caesar.&quot;  You'll be much happier.	2003-07-10
US	52780455	R2VW89WT6MEH4B	0553241222	165685418	A Family Affair (The Rex Stout Library)	Books	2	2	7	N	N	Mystery is Feasible, but Characters Are Horrible	First, the good thing:  The mystery in this book is quite good with an unexpected twist at the end.  <BR><br />Next, the bad things:  While the mystery is good, that's not really the focus in a Nero Wolfe novel.  Stout's murders and solutions never quite compare to Agatha Christie's or Ngaio Marsh's, but their characters never quite compare to Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin.  In fact, those two are the mainstays of Stout's literary genius, but all mainstays must come to an end, and they do in this, Stout's final novel.<BR><br />Granted, he was quite old when he wrote this, but the mystery holds up well.  The characters, however--the part Stout should have been able to do even if half-senile--, do not.  Archie is much, much more serious and barely even resembles his usual wise-cracking self.  Wolfe is more tolerant in general, but when he is being his usual &quot;odd&quot; genius-self, it goes beyond &quot;odd&quot; to just plain bizarre.  <BR><br />The continuity of several things in the series is also disrupted.  They discuss the murder at meals, Wolfe leaves the plant rooms early to meet with a caller who does not have an appointment, and the helpers, Saul, Fred, and Orrie, are also just not right.<BR><br />For the mystery, this book isn't bad, but as far as characterization and continuity are concerned, it's no good.  If you're a die-hard Stout fan, you need to read this book, but don't make it your first Nero Wolfe endeavor.  Try &quot;Fer-de-Lance&quot; or &quot;Some Buried Caesar.&quot;  You'll be much happier.	2003-07-10
US	52780455	RKA450N4XMJWC	0553225308	884270181	Red Threads (Rex Stout Library)	Books	3	24	25	N	N	Good, if you forget it's Rex Stout	This is a good mystery, and the clue used to trap the murderer is very a la Agatha Christie.  In fact, the whole novel is a la Agatha Christie.  It seems almost as if it were written to show the general public that Cramer could indeed solve a case without Wolfe's help.<BR><br />The story starts one month after a brutal crime has taken place.  Val Carew has been scalped in the tomb/slightly unnatural shrine of his late Indian wife with, naturally, an entire houseful of guests.<BR><br />Cramer is called home from a Canadian vacation to solve the crime.  Then he disappears for 60 pages while we are introduced to the characters, their motives, alibis, and relationships with each other.  Once he reappears, he solves the crime, albeit with some help.<BR><br />The only problem with this mystery is if you expect it to read like a Nero Wolfe.  Since that's what we primarily associate with Stout, that's what we expect from him.  While this novel doesn't really disappoint the reader, it's just rather slow going because you expect Wolfe and Archie to pop up at any moment.  As they never do, it's something of a disappointment, but if you just tell yourself at the beginning that the novel isn't written by Stout, but someone else, it's quite enjoyable fare.	2003-07-05
US	52780455	RFJM5VI1B3K8Q	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	The Most Anticipated Book Lives up to Its Hype	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix is a marvelous edition to J.K. Rowling's library, and well worth the long, long wait and the number of pages.  Although the book is the darkest novel yet in the Harry Potter saga, it reads like one of the earlier editions, happy and light with plenty of humor thrown in compensate for the overall dark tone of the novel.  The plot is complex and involved, but never difficult as Rowling takes time and trouble to make certain everyone understands the mystery before moving to the next part.<BR><br />Many characters in this book become more well-rounded, and their actions are better justified.  Professor McGonagall becomes a much more likable character, and we get more insight into the reason behind Professor Snape's hatred of Harry.  We also see Harry's love life blossom somewhat as he ages, and he goes through typical teenage strife with his friends, Ron and Hermione.<BR><br />The ending is an exciting, heart-in-your-throat adventure that is sure to delight Harry Potter fans old and new.  My only advice for reading this book:  Don't make this your first Potter foray.  Read the other books first.  Rowling doesn't explain every detail from the first ones; she just assumes you've read them and doesn't bog you down with details you already remember (if you've read the first four).<BR><br />Basically, this is a very exciting book that well lives up to the Harry Potter saga and is sure to delight the many legions of fans who have waiting with bated breath for the newest edition.	2003-06-22
US	52780455	R3G7NI9A9NF1YU	0553234463	796221719	Homicide Trinity (Nero Wolfe)	Books	4	24	25	N	N	Great book, but short stories just don't compare w/novels	This is an excellent collection of Nero Wolfe short stories--some of the best Stout ever wrote, but they are still short stories.  While they are great introductory reading for the new Stout enthusiast (highly recommended if this applies to you), the stories seem rather abrupt for anyone who's read the novels.  Just as Wolfe, the cantankerous, lazy, overweight, yet completely endearing detective, and Archie, the CLASSIC unflappable sidekick, seem to begin solving the murder, they've found the solution, and the story is over.  Other than the general abruptness of the stories, the book is wonderful, and the stories themselves are some of the best Stout ever wrote--if only he had fleshed them out into novels...<BR><br />In \\"Eeny Meeny Murder Mo,\\" 'it's a wily killer who dares to strike on Nero Wolfe's hallowed turf--and leave a corpse strangled with Wolfe's own soup-stained tie.'  This is the story that was turned into an A&E movie, and the one that got me started on Rex Stout's novels.<BR><br />In \\"Death of a Demon,\\" 'Wolfe faces a gun-toting wife who serves up a confession of homicidal intent--only to become the sole suspect when her husband's corpse is found.'  This one is a little confusing, keeping all of the guns (some toted by the aforementioned wife) straight.<BR><br />Finally, in \\"Counterfeit for Murder,\\" 'a cop-hating landlady brings Wolfe counterfeit cash--that leads to genuine murder.'  This story introduces a very likeable character in the landlady, one of the few women Wolfe (by no means a woman-hater; they just seem to get in the way of his orderly existence) moderately respects.	2003-06-16
US	52780455	RDPVADGJ4041N	1566913608	240876937	Rick Steves' London: Covers the British Museum, Westminster Abbey, St. Paul's, and the Tower of London (2002)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent Book for Wonderful Tours	Rick provides some of the best information about the cities he visits.  The books are worth the price for the trivia alone.  Whether you've already been to Europe or you're planning to go, these books are for you.  In fact, the London book is so spectacular that even if you're not planning a trip to England, you should buy the book.  It's full of interesting information and is its own time capsule of British history and culture.	2003-06-16
US	52780455	RAQWA579M6B4O	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	An Entertaining, Enlightening Thriller	This book is simply magnificent.  The plot is very fast-paced, but it is also evenly distributed and never lags.  Brown has put together a fascinating look at religion, art, and modern intrigue, blending the three seamlessly.  While the plot is somewhat predictable, this book is meant to simply be enjoyed and to revel in the details.  The facts are astounding and will actually make you question the fine line between Brown's research and his imagination.  You'll be doing frantic online searches to view the art discussed in the book and look for the details that Brown points out.  Also, if you have been to Europe or would simply like to go, this book poses an extra delight by taking place in many of France and England's most famous attractions.  Simply stated, this book will be impossible to put down and must be bought and savored.	2003-06-07
US	52780455	RM3MX429S9NZK	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Just as good as the first three!	This long-awaited book was snatched up by kids and parents all around the country.  Some of you may think the excitement was a little overrated.  You won't if you read the book.  This book was as good as the first ones, if  not better.  Although the book is a little deeper and darker than the other  ones, it is still just as light and airy as ever, but the author uses some  of the extra pages (nearly 300 more than the third one) to explore the  characters personalitites better.  We get to know them better and we also  have some new characters introduced to us.  We learn more about  He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named (Voldemort) and his reign of terror.  The book  never lags in interest as we watch the characters progress.<br />Harry  wants to get away from the pernicious Dursleys and go to the International  Quidditch Cup with Hermione, Ron, and the Weasleys.  He wants to dream  about Cho Chang, his crush (and maybe do more than dream).  He wants to  find out about the mysterious event that's supposed to take place at  Hogwarts this year, an event involving two other rival schools of magic and  a competition that hasn't happened for a hundred years.  He wants to be a  normal, fourteen-year-old wizard.  Unfortunately for Harry Potter, he's not  normal--even by wizarding standards.  And in this case, different can be  deadly.<br />From the mysterious beginning, to the fast-paced middle, to the  hanging end, this book is every bit as good and has as many twists and  revelations as the first three.  In fact, it only leaves you wanting one  thing:  the fifth one right at hand to start the second you finish this  one.	2000-07-12
US	52780455	RGNJFRH48AYQV	0553107380	601975576	Pawing Through the Past (Mrs. Murphy Mysteries)	Books	5	40	40	N	N	The Best in the Mrs. Murphy series to date.	Harry gets a little braver, Miranda and Mim get a little looser, and other characters become more well known.  Crozet is holding a twentieth year high-school reunion (Harry's) and a fiftieth year reunion (Miranda's) at  the same time, the only difference in the two being the cause for  excitement.  In Harry's a killer is running loose and class members are  dropping like flies.  In Miranda's a love interest comes.  The suspense  steadily mounts throughout the book as Brown creates a web of age-old  secrets.  The book is slightly reminiscent of &quot;Wish You Were  Here&quot; in the way the victims are notified of their impending death.   This mystery has a mind-boggling, suspense-filled ending.<br />The animals are  a little more sensible in this book as compared to Brown's last one.  They  no longer do outlandish things such as drive cars, but they continue with  their catty and sarcastic remarks.  <br />The past of several town members  becomes more well-known in this book and anchors them in our minds better.   When I finished it, for a day or two I found myself slightly lost without  these witty and wonderful characters.<br />All in all, this is a great mystery  sure to be enjoyed.  Just remember, in a small town, nothing is ever as it  seems!	2000-06-07
US	52780455	R22EAWOM9SZQR3	1879511185	964797555	Betty Grable: The Girl with the Million Dollar Legs	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	A Very Informative You Are Sure to Enjoy	This is a lovingly written biography about a famous film star from the 1940s and early 1950s.  The book goes into detail about all of Grable's films and successes as well as touching on her family life.  I found out  many things from this book.  For one, I had no idea Betty Grable was such a  popular actress.  For all I knew, she appeared on &quot;I Love Lucy&quot;  and did two or three movies.  I was certainly wrong!  It also includes  passing comments on a bevy of other stars, especially Marilyn Monroe and  Alice Faye.  This is a must buy for you if you enjoy Betty Grable, her  films, or the culture of the 1940s and 1950s!	2000-05-28
US	52780455	R21IVFLTEMLT1K	0553287532	183214458	Wish You Were Here: A Mrs. Murphy Mystery	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Delightful Small-Town Read	This is a wonderful book for everyone.  The mystery is intriguing and so are the characters.  They all add their special brand of humor and vitality to the book.  The animals are always a step ahead of the humans in finding  out who the murderer is although they don't have time to figure it out  themselves.  The murderer slips near the end and you'll know who it is if  you pay attention.  Of course, if you read the other books before this one,  you'll know who it is from the start.  So, my advice, read this one first  and watch the characters develop as you press further into the series.	2000-05-22
US	52780455	R3NSQE2M890OTC	0553562398	88695122	Rest in Pieces: A Mrs. Murphy Mystery	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Good Read	Crozet, Virginia, is indeed a small town full of secrets and spite, and never more so than in this book.  A dismemebered corpse turns up all over town in the most unlikely places.  A new man, Blair Bainbridge, has moved  to town.  Everyone thinks he and Harry should get together, and emotions  are running high.  In fact, high enough for someone to kill?  As Harry and  the townspeople try and figure out who and why, the animals, as uaual, are  a step ahead of everyone else.  The climax is more suspenseful and dramatic  than usual.  Equally entertaining are the conversations in the post office  when half the town is gathered together.  Brown takes you on a humorous  adventure, similar to a roller coaster, with half a town involved.	2000-05-21
US	52780455	R3CWEVRNUUWQYT	0684835983	728320796	Before I Say Good-Bye	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Very Suspenseful Thriller	Unlike most of Clark's books when the victim is hardly known, in this book he is known and well.  At the beginning of the book, Nell decides to try and run for the congressional seat formerly held by her grandfather for  fifty years.  When she informs her architect husband, he blows up and  leaves in a huff.  Later that night, his boat explodes with him on it,  along with several others.  For the most part of the book, Nell mopes  around the house and finally discovers the killer accidentally.<br />Clark  again delivers a multi-layered mystery with red herrings thrown left and  right and enough of her trademark plot changes and twists to keep everyone  happy.  A great book for everyone!	2000-05-13
US	52780455	RHTB2JA2HJL52	0671888587	918634627	I'll Be Seeing You: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Suspenseful Read	This is one of my favorite Clark books.  The multi-layered mystery kept me fascinated all throughout the book.  Unlike some of Clark's main characters, the protagonist in the book, Meghan, actually gets out there  and does something to try and solve the murder instead of moping around the  house all day.  There were two things I did not like about the book,  however.  First, I didn't like who the murderer was.  I realize Clark gives  a twist at the end of her books and I appreciate that, but I just didn't  like the way this one ended.  Secondly, we do not find out what happens to  one of the characters.	2000-05-12
US	52780455	R3VYU6065VFMM9	0671169769	650332810	This for Remembrance: The Autobiography of Rosemary Clooney, an Irish-American Singer	Books	4	14	14	N	N	A wonderful look at the author's life!	Although many have heard about Rosemary Clooney and have probably listened to her songs, few really know much about her.  I was one of those people.  Not now!  <br />This book is an intimate portrayal of her life as a person and as a singer.  Both aspects are skillfully combined.  Beginning with a  dramatic point in her life, she uses an excellent transition to begin the  biography.  After her life story, she transcends back into the dramatic  episode.  There were many interesting facts about other celebrities of her  day as well.  <br />This book is great for anyone who loves her songs.   After  reading it, you feel a greater appreciation for the songs and will want to  listen to them more than ever.  This book only left me wanting one thing:   to read her new autobiography which came out last year!	2000-04-25
US	52780455	R1GBRGF7J6I2ON	0848807243	478963137	Stillmeadow Calendar	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A Wonderful, Heartfelt Book	This book, with a section for each month of the year, tells about Gladys Taber's Conneticut farm, Stillmeadow.  In between Gladys's stories about the plants and animals of the farm, including her Abbyssinian, Amber, are  delightful anecdotes about her first days on the farm when everything  seemed to go wrong.  She also shares her personal insights and opinions on  the youth and political issues of that time.  Some may argue that she only  wrote about nature so much for profit, but, if read, this book puts a stop  to that argument.  No one who was in it just for profit could have written  anything so loveingly about nature, let alone several books.<br />All in all,  this book will truly make you appreciate nature in all of its forms, from  wisteria to skunks and back again!	2000-04-01
US	52780455	R1JKXVY342XL37	0671741195	68047735	The Cradle Will Fall	Books	5	11	11	N	N	a Thrilling and Suspenseful Read	Unlike many of Clark's other books, in this one she gives the murderer away right from the start. The rest of the book is spent with the main character totally oblivious to the murderer, although she doesn't believe  main suspect did it. This book can be compared to an Inspector Columbo  mystery, where the identity of the murderer is known in the first five  minutes, or in this case the first 50 pages, and the rest of the book is  spend with the protagonist trying to figure out &quot;whodunit.&quot;  Like  all of Clark's books, however, this book is high on suspense and thrills.   It is sure to deliver a quick, enjoyable read!	2000-03-17
US	52780455	R1KOEY12VK2X6T	014027569X	14017004	Aunt Dimity Digs In	Books	1	4	9	N	N	5 Stars?	While I do adimt that the characters are very well developed and it is a nice change of pace to not have fifteen people murdered in a mystery, let's face the facts.  This book is not any good.  The first two in the series were fairly good and held my attention well, but I had to struggle to get  halfway through this one.  I read a 250-300 page book in about three to  four days, as I am a student.  It took me over a week to read this one, and  I only got halfway through.  Being an avid mystery lover of all kinds, I  can never wait until the end to find out &quot;whodunit.&quot;  This book,  however, was no trouble at all to put down and not pick back up again.  I  did not know who had committed the burglary, and, quite frankly, I didn't  really care.  If you read any books by authors such as Lilian Jackson  Braun, Mary Higgins Clark, Rita Mae Brown, Anne George, or, for that  matter, ANY mystery author at all, do not be fooled as I was by this book.   You will not enjoy it!	2000-03-15
US	52780455	R2LA2A9MRPAQAY	0553572350	110075589	Murder at Monticello: A Mrs. Murphy Mystery	Books	3	0	1	N	N	The books subtitle, "Old Sins" is correct.	This, like all of the other Mrs. Murphy mysteries, was very entertaining and was an exciting read. There are a few problems, however. The author expects us to know Thomas Jefferson's entire life history, all of his relatives, all of his slaves, and everything ever written about Monticello. Raise you hand if you know these things! There is a family chart at the front of the book, but, if you're like me, it hinders more than it helps. Also, as I said earlier, \\"Old Sins\\" is correct. Most of the book is about discovering who murdered a man 175 years ago. What are they going to do when they find out who did it? Prosecute the murderer?<BR><br />The main thing holding this novel together is the banter between the people of the town.  By this point in the series, Brown has really gotten a grasp on her characters, and they've become more fleshed out and enjoyable.	2000-03-15
US	52780455	RRCK6Q46Q7JVR	0399145702	717777341	The Cat Who Robbed a Bank	Books	3	3	4	N	N	An Entertaining Read	Although not for people who are hard-core mystery fans who like overly subtle clues, many murders, and a constant search for the culprit, this book is still an entertaining read. My main problem with it was that there was no mystery, in a sense.  Qwilleran didn't have to sit down and try to  figure out who had done it.  Everyone in the town knew who had done it.   The only excitement about the murder itself was the criminal's attempts at  fleeing.	2000-03-04
US	52780455	R17FEKCGCLUP7Z	156352340X	227211163	What a Book!: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Very Hilarious Book	This book will have you laughing out loud.  The ending is a surprise, but, if read again, there are several signs that point to it.  Written in the first person narrative, this book is full of outlandish adventures and  comical mishaps on &quot;the storyteller's&quot; highway to fame.  Told  with dual protagonists, this book is certainly an unexpected delight for  all ages!	2000-02-21
US	52780455	R183N73TF1E0LY	0425109720	32944133	Patriot Games (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	3	1	4	N	N	A good book	Ths is, indeed, a very good book.  The plot grabs you in the first ten pages, and, although, severely loosens its hold at places, such as the CIA office, it never really lets go.  The book is vulgar, however.  It may be  because I'm old-fashioned, or because I don't hear profane language on a  regular basis, or it may be because I'm one of the few people left in the  world with more morals than opinions (although I have a lot of those as  well), but this book is very profane.  If you object to this, as I do (I  needed to read the book for school), do not read this book!	1999-08-06
US	52780455	RZFCVBECR1S8E	0671867172	613858872	The Lottery Winner: Alvirah and Willy Stories	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Comical suspense, if that makes sense.	This is my favorite in the Mary Higgins Clark series.  There is a comical side to the suspense and I find this refreshing when it is compared to most over-dramatized mystery thrillers. People say that they figured out who had  done it quickly.  They probably could.  I, howver, could not.  This was the  first mystery I had ever read, concerning myself in the past with  biographies, and Gladys Taber (a wonderful author whom has been tragically  forgotten in the years since her death).  Perhaps if I had read others  before this one, I could have figured it out as well.	1999-07-22
US	52780455	R1QFDI3X3SMJP0	0671793489	14047225	All Around the Town	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A wonderful book.	This book is classified wrong.  It should be under &quot;horror&quot; instead of &quot;mystery&quot;.  It is by far the scariest Mary Higgins Clark book I have read.  I was alone in the house near the end and I had to  stop reading it.  Every little creak made me think there was someone in the  house.	1999-07-22
US	52780455	R2IW6PUAUDDV2C	0515113328	565790722	The Cat Who Went into the Closet	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Wondeful.	Lilian Jackson Braun is one of my favorite mystery writers and this is my favorite of her books.  I like her writing because her books have variation to them.  In most mysteries, all the main character ever does is sit and  think, &quot;Who did it?  Who did it?  Who did it?  Who did it?&quot;   After a while, this becomes monotonous.  Lilian Jackson Braun's characters  actually get out and do something while trying to figure out the mystery.   Being a cat lover, I thought the cats were a nice, refreshing touch.	1999-07-22
US	52780455	R142YQS9COCV90	055309971X	621617883	Cat on the Scent	Books	1	1	1	N	N	Didn't measure up.	I enjoy Rita Mae Brown's books very much and I actually bought one from Amazon.com using a gift certifcate just last week. This, however, didn't measure up. I enjoyed the book and, as always, I thought the animals were a delightlful touch. However, I agree with a previous customer. I don't believe that the author should spell out EVERY single detail down to its threadbare minimum, but I like for the author to come right out and say who did it just to confirm my suspicions. The author did this in a way. The murderers confesssed to each other in a dilly-dallying, round-about way. My father is a police officer and just not having ANY justice served was another low point in the book.<BR><br />Also, the animals in this one are rather incredulous, driving cars and such nonsense.  Yes, they're the novelty behind these novels, but Brown has taken them too far with this one.  They're becoming people in fur coats.	1999-07-22
US	52780455	RAQU18ZLMSE4G	0671741187	554760069	Where Are the Children?	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A very good read.	There is no doubt about it.  This is a very good book.  I did figure out who had done it, however, halfway through the book.  On a technicality, however, Clark made me dispel my notions.  Having read many of her books  and always guessing wrong, I was surprised that I was correct.        Tough  it is a very well written book with an interesting story line, it does, at  points, get a little boring.  She doesn't describe her characters as well  as she does in later books.  This is her first  book, though.  Very few  first-time authors write books as well as their later ones.  All in all, a  very interesting, suspenseful, and intriguing read.	1999-07-22
US	52780455	R3SMTT08V8CFSZ	0688086462	759959483	Lucy in the Afternoon: An Intimate Memoir of Lucille Ball	Books	5	3	4	N	N	It was great!!!!!!!	You will laugh out loud at the real-life antics of Lucille Ball which are described in this wonderfully detailed book. If you already know Lucille Ball's history and want little known triva facts and want to know more about &quot;I Love Lucy&quot;, then this IS THE BOOK FOR YOU!!!!!!!!!!!	1998-07-13
US	52780455	R3QU9LS393A3XN	1557360170	336634608	Forever Lucy: The life of Lucille Ball (Landmark books)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Very, very informative	It started in her early years  and took you straight through to her death in 1986. Around 200 to 250 pages.  It explained a lot of things that I had been wondering about AFTER &quot;I Love Lucy&quot;.  It talked about her kids a lot too.  It explained in deep detail about her kids' trials and tribulations while managing at the same time to link everything to Lucille Ball and continue talking about her life.  A must buy for all Lucille Ball fans.	1998-07-13
US	52780455	RQHJ13ZE0HAJ3	0027322009	848467361	Striped Horses: The Story of a Zebra Family	Books	5	0	0	N	N	IT WAS TOUCHING AND DESCRIBED NATURE WONDERFULLY.	&quot;STRIPED HORSES:THE STORY OF A ZEBRA FAMILY&quot;IS A MARVELOUS BOOK!IT TELLS ABOUT A ZEBRA BACHELOR AND HIS QUEST TO FIND A FAMILY,THE LOSS OF HIS YOUNGEST MARE,HOW THE ZEBRAS FEEL TOWARD EACH OTHER,AND IT ACTUALLY MAKES YOU FEEL AS IF YOU ARE THERE WITH THE ZEBRAS.IT WAS AWESOME!IT IS ALSO TOUCHING WHEN ZEBEEDEE DIES,AND ZED LEAVES THE FAMILY TO JOIN HIS OWN BACHELOR BAND.I LOVED IT!	1997-06-16
US	52780455	R2JA24UGQKJU0V	0061011886	309947144	Enter Whining	Books	5	0	0	N	N	DRESCHER IS A DELIGHT!	FRAN OWN CHARISMA AND CHARM IS ALL HER OWN-EVEN IN HER WRITING!READ ABOUT HER RISE TO STARDOM ALONG WITH FUNNY AND HILARIOUS QUIPS(ALONG WITH THE OCCASIONAL CUSS WORD	1997-06-16
US	52780455	R1HZ8LA4EKS3GS	0399142053	72326664	Love, Lucy	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A WORK OF ART-LUCILLE'S TRUE FEELINGS	LUCILLE BALL DID (AND STILL DOES)EVERYTHING TO PLEASE HER FANS-EVEN AFTER SHE DIED.IT'S ALMOST AS IF YOU ARE TALKING TO HER FACE TO FACE AS YOU HEAR HER SIDE OF THE STORY,IN HER OWN WORDS,ABOUT EVERYTHING.FROM HEARTACHE TO HEARTY LAUGHTER THIS BOOK IS A MUST FOR ANY LUCILLE BALL FAN	1997-06-16
