US	52787781	R2OKSH0BIL82EG	0446603937	894917100	Emerald House Rising	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A unique fantasy government and an engaging heroine	Jena Gemcutter thinks she knows what she wants out of life--to marry Bram Tailor, to become a master gemcutter, to make her father happy.  Then she meets a stranger with a ring only she can see, and strange things start happening.  She learns she can do magic.  She has strange visions and dizzy spells.  She discovers she feels trapped in her life.  And suddenly only someone who can use magic--someone like Jena--can save the entire Diadem from treachery.<br />Kerr's detailed world provides a strong backbone for this exciting fantasy.  The kingdom is ruled by the Diamond, whose council (the Diadem) is made up of six other noble houses.  Every year, the Diadem house which holds Heirship for the Diamond rotates.  This year it is Ruby, but next year it will be Topaz.  I've never seen a government system like this in all the fantasy novels I've read, and I found it to be a refreshingly different system.<br />Jena and Kestrienne are easily the most engaging characters in this book.  Jena is the viewpoint character, and it's exciting to watch her discover who she really is and what she really wants.  Kestrienne becomes Jena's mentor, as a noble lady who is also an adept.  Lord Morgon is an interesting character, though he really doesn't get the development he deserves.  Lady Vianne is another exceptional character, a woman of poise, character, and personality.<br />Kerr gives lavish attention to descriptions, but at times the narrative skips days or weeks at a time -- this gave me slight pause, but all-in-all, I found the book to be entirely satisfactory.  I only wish there were a sequel!	2003-08-06
US	52787781	R2CPLSA5RBMG3Y	1880292734	614888519	Falcon Of Abydos: ORACLE OF THE NILE (Harbor Lights Series)	Books	1	4	5	N	N	An interesting story crippled by extremely poor writing	This book was abysmal.  I had very high hopes for it, as the idea--two scientist parents traveling the world with their three children--seemed quite interesting, especially as this one was set in Egypt.  What I found was poor characterization, blatant attempts at suspense, and far too much attention to details that were not germane to the story.<br />All along the story was plagued by highly improbably incidents.  The earthquake in the prologue seems too convenient.  The scientist (and therefore presumeably somewhat intelligent) mother takes her children two hours into the desert, in a BMW sedan, with only one bottle of water, for a picnic.  And then is surprised when they are caught in a sandstorm.  A perfect rescue by a helicopter-flying Egyptologist.  The list goes on and on.<br />Far too much time was spent detailing every single outfit that every single character, however minor, was wearing or purchasing.  In every scene I was informed exactly where each person was sitting in relation to the others.  The dialogue was stilted and unnatural, using for example \\"I will\\" or \\"you are\\" instead of \\"I'll\\" and \\"you're.\\"<br />The author referred to every person of Middle Eastern/Northern African descent, as Arabs.  The terrorism theme was handled rather insensitively, especially considering the author's introduction that stated he decided to publish it after September 11.  My favourite bit was when a character suggested that a 500-megaton bomb hitting the High Aswan Dam would cause massive flooding downriver.  You might think so, but actually that 500-megaton bomb would probably vaporize Lake Nassar and tick people off as far as Greece and India.<br />One of the cover blurbs said this book defines a new level of action/adventure eco-terrorism books.  Yes, I can define it in two words: wretchedly awful.	2002-06-26
US	52787781	R2L5JWO58R50YT	0141301244	376098327	Woman in the Wall	Books	5	2	3	N	N	An insightful and humourous book	I read this book for my freelancing job, and I enjoyed it immensely.  Kindl did a wonderful job portraying Anna's disappearance from her family (since she had never existed to the outside world).  I would classify this book as magical realism, since Anna's (and her father's) method of disappearance seems fantastic, but the rest of the book is clearly set in the real world.<br />I was a tiny bit taken aback that Anna was using power tools and sewing entire outfits for her mother and sisters at the early age of seven, but the dream-like quality of the prose made me accept it without much trouble.  As the story progressed and she got older, I began to feel anxious that she would be discovered; at the same time I was concerned that she might never free herself from her self-appointed imprisonment.  When she begins exchanging letters with the mysterious F, the story becomes more active, and heightens the suspense.<br />The prose is fluid, the characters entertaining and genuine.  The setting is mysterious and in some ways, magical.  Part of me envied Anna the secret life she had--her huge old house was just the sort of place I would have loved as a child.	2002-06-17
US	52787781	R1ZJ9O35XMK29M	014131088X	618877188	Speak	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Insightful and darkly funny	Melinda is a freshman in high school, and she is an Outcast.  Because of something that happened over the summer, none of her former friends are speaking to her, and people who don't even know her recognize her name with hatred.  She narrates the book in first-person, delivered in little sections that can't even be termed chapters--that's part of what made this book go so fast.<BR> <BR>As we continue reading (the book is divided into four major sections, termed \\"Marking Periods\\", which have a report card at the end of each) we learn more about what happened over the summer.  She called the police while she was at a party, and a lot of kids were arrested.  The reason she called the police isn't given until the end of third marking period, when Melinda realizes that one of her (former) friends is in danger unless she has the courage to speak out.<BR> <BR>As the school year progresses, the book's tone gets darker and more frightening.  Paralyzed by fear, Melinda slowly loses her ability to speak, and chews her lips to bloody pulps.  Her few remaining human connections--her science lab partner, her art teacher--still accept her for who she is, but her busy parents are oblivious to the torment their daughter is experiencing.  Even when she is disciplined for poor grades and cutting class, they don't know how to make her talk to them, and don't take the time to try to listen.  The only way she manages to express herself is through her art project--to draw, paint, sculpt, a tree.  As her emotions and character changes, so do her trees.<BR> <BR>Even though the subject matter of the book is very dark and frightening, I found the book overall to be full of humour.  Melinda mocks the high school cliques, her parents, and herself, in the monologue running inside her head.  And the end of the book manages to be uplifting, so that even as your tears are still on your cheeks, you smile and know Melinda will be okay.<BR> <BR>I am not a fan of the Oprah Book Club or After School Specials--I just don't enjoy stories about tormented women or the problems plaguing women and girls  in today's society.  I am not trying to criticize those stories, because I know they serve a very important purpose; I'm just saying that they're not usually my cup of tea.  But _Speak_ took me by surprise.  I was moved by this book, and I think it's one all women (and really all men, too) should read.	2002-06-12
US	52787781	R3BTTGA31IZHQI	8478884459	667539744	Harry Potter Y La Piedra Filosofal	Books	5	49	56	N	Y	Great for non-native Spanish speakers!	I studied Spanish in high school and university.  I am far from a fluent speaker, though I don't think I'd get myself killed wandering around in Mexico or Spain.  Having read all of the Harry Potter books in English many times, I decided to give this a try to brush up on my Spanish skills.  I am only about 50 pages into it (reading Spanish takes me a lot longer than English!) but so far I am enjoying it immensely.  Of course, it helps that I know what is happening, but that has also helped me with my understanding of the Spanish.  I've really enjoyed this experience.	2002-06-10
US	52787781	R2BAI8JL3XFD23	0843177047	944522002	The Dragon Hunter's Handbook (Field Guides to Paranormal)	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	A cute addition for a fantasy reader!	This is a fun little guidebook, and a must-have for serious fantasy fans.  It has actually been helpful in some of my writing, and it definitely is an entertaining read.  You can learn how to spot a dragon in today's world (difficult, but possible--look for burn marks on buildings!), how to befriend it (sometimes), how to negotiate peace between the dragon and nearby humans, and how to (if all else fails) slay one without being slain yourself!	2002-06-10
US	52787781	R1EGN1YOYSN54M	0688173977	824449590	Rain Is Not My Indian Name	Books	3	9	13	N	N	Disappointing execution of a story with potential	I am a freelance quiz writer, and I picked up this book for one of my assignments. The cover blurb looked very interesting, and I began reading it with eager anticipation. Two hours later I put the book down, disappointed.<br />Rain's story has lots of potential, and takes place in an interesting family setting. Rain's mother has been dead for several years. Rain and her brother & his girlfriend live with their grandfather, who is vacationing in Las Vegas during the book. Their father is posted on Guam.<br />The book begins on the night her best friend Galen is killed, and then jumps ahead six months to his birthday (July 4) for the action. Rain's Aunt Georgia wants to run an Indian Camp, and Rain doesn't want to attend. Her brother's girlfriend asks her to photograph the event for a story Flash, an intern, is writing about the camp.<br />Aunt Georgia's concept of Indian Camp is very vague; even when Rain and Flash observe the camp in an attempt to write a feature story, Indian Camp never becomes anything more than nebulous. Georgia wants the campers to build a pasta bridge, write, design a webpage, and take a long fieldtrip to Minnesota (from Kansas) to watch an Indian rice harvest. Aunt Georgia feels these are important activities, but doesn't ever bother to explain why. Even Rain and Flash's conversations about the activities shed little or no light on the importance.<br />Galen's mother--a dislikeable character in all but one incident--is trying to stop funding of Indian Camp. For Rain, the Indian Camp conflict and her difficulty in dealing with Galen's death, combine to create problems between her and Galen's mother. Add to that rumours that are certainly intended to be scandalous (but which fall far short) and the situation becomes a stress point for Rain.<br />This book deals with more issues--multiculturalism, coping with death, teenage pregnancy, pregnancy out of wedlock, and family relationships--than can be handled in its skimpy 135 pages. The author hada great story idea, with the best of intentions, but lacked follow-through. Add to that the way the book jumps from topic to topic with little continuity, and the journal entries which, more often than not, add nothing to the plot, and you have a very unsatisfactory structure for a novel.<br />There are interesting elements in the book, though in my opinion the 14-year-old characters don't really act 14. If you can find this at your local library, go ahead and read it, if you wade through the author's lackluster writing style. Just don't waste money purchasing it. You'll be disappointed.	2002-04-02
US	52787781	R3T5S9RLVTX2XZ	0553801481	130881552	Fool's Errand (The Tawny Man, Book 1)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Another excellent Farseer novel from Hobb!	I was so eager to get this book that I ordered it from Amazon.co.uk, since it came out there a few months in advance of the American release (also the cover art is nicer on my edition).  I have been hoping  for a new FitzChivalry book, and this lives up to my hopes and more.<br />This is a marvelous new journey with FitzChivalry Farseer and his wolf Nighteyes!  The book takes place 15 years after Assassin's Quest, and begins at Fitz's (now known as Tom Badgerlock) cabin, which he shares with his adopted son, Hap.  One by one, the people he loved best from his former life come to him, asking him to return to Buckkeep.  First Chade, then Starling, and finally the Fool (YAY!) come to him, seeking to involve him once more in the politics of the Six Duchies.  None of them are successful until Prince Dutiful disappears, and Fitz is called up to find him.<br />Knowing he can't return as FitzChivalry (since he was executed for having the Wit), he takes service to Lord Golden, who is none other than the beloved Fool.  When the hunt leads them from Buckkeep to a small holding of minor nobility, things begin to get dangerous.  There are new factions rising in the Six Duchies, and whether they intend good or ill for the prince, they can certainly cause chaos with the knowledge they possess.  Fitz and the Fool must rescue Dutiful, even if it means sacrificing their own lives, or the lives of those they love best.<br />This book is a wonderful return to Fitz; Hobb has obviously kept in touch with him during the time she spent writing the Liveship Trilogy, because her characterization of him is as true as ever.  He has gained a certain amount of wisdom, but he is still quite capable of foolishness and bullheaded blindness.  The Fool is as mysterious as ever, though he certainly speaks with more frankness than he used to.  With his new identity as Lord Golden,   we (and Fitz) see a different side of him that adds even more dimensions to his character.  The new characters of Laurenand Dutiful are strong additions to the cast, which is great since we'll at least be seeing more of Dutiful in the books to come.<br />Once again Hobb has given us a magical and breathtaking story.  I am VERY grateful that she returned to Fitz and the Fool (the Fool being one of my favourite characters of all fantasy!) and has given us more excitement.  I have to admit, I spent the last bit of the book in tears - but Hobb has always had that effect on me!	2002-03-20
US	52787781	R24VYFF1UKKH84	0805043896	596806827	The Golden Band of Eddris	Books	2	2	2	N	N	A disappointing book	I finished this book only because I kept hoping it would get better.  The plot was rather muddled, the characters mostly two-dimensional (if that), their motivations a mystery, the plot twist at the end not much of a twist, and the time rather squishy.  Months or weeks or mere days may have passed during the action of the book, but I have absolutely no idea how long the action took.<br />The characters went willy-nilly from place to place, without any apparent rhyme or reason.  Once aligned with a higher power, the two main characters (a 14-year-old and an 8-year-old sent off into the world by their mother) still had very little direction to their journeys.  The ending was unsatisfying, and I finished the book with a bad taste in my mouth.<br />As the other reviewer pointed out, the background for this book is intriguing, as is the world in which it is set.  Unfortunately, this book read as if it were about 200 pages too short, as if all the character and plot development hadn't been given the attention the world development had.  The richness of the setting, which led me to hope for a good read, actually made me feel the disappointment more keenly.<br />I really don't recommend this book (though the cover art is very nice).	2002-03-03
US	52787781	RMONB6IK1KDBL	0689831285	738359886	Just Ella (The Palace Chronicles)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A new twist on a classic tale	What if Cinderella hadn't had a fairy godmother?  What if she got herself into the ball through hard work and a little luck?  What if she agreed to marry Prince Charming, only to discover she didn't really like him?<br />Perhaps no other fairy tale has been revisited as much as the tale of Cinderella.  I suppose we all identify with her escape from the drudgery of everyday life.  In this refreshing tale by Margert Peterson Haddix, Ella has already been to the ball and agreed to marry the prince, only to discover that life at the palace isn't all that great.<br />She has a lot to learn about not being a commoner, and the only friends she finds there are a young maid and her religion tutor, an idealistic young man only a few years her senior.  Her time with Charm is limited, and she slowly discovers she doesn't really like him much at all.  Her nemesis (ahem, etiquette instructor) is a well-drawn adversary, and the added conflict of living in a kingdom at war adds a very nice subplot and ultimately brings our heroine to the satisfying conclusion of the book.<br />Ella's beauty frustrates her, because she's good a good mind, fed by her father, who was a book collector and scholar before he was killed trying to cross the border and get another book.  The Charming family turns out to be not-so-charming, and they are the only characters who aren't as rounded as the others.<br />This is a fun and interesting book, and I recommend it to anyone who enjoys fairy tales, and in particular to anyone who enjoyed Gail Carson Levine's _Ella Enchanted_.	2002-03-03
US	52787781	R3ADF6UX1TZO96	038532720X	647228297	Demon in My View (Den of Shadows)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Interesting...is this autobiographical?	I read Forests of the Night a couple days ago and was intrigued enough to read Demon in My View.  I was hoping Amelia's writing would have matured more than it did over the course of two years.  The first couple of chapters were very off-putting, as it felt like an in-your-face, look at me, I made it! to anyone who may have disliked the author in real life.  Jessica's character is not just dark, she's hostile, and I had to stop and consider whether or not to put up with her attitude long enough to finish the book.<br />I decided I would, and overall I guess I'm glad.  This isn't a significant book by any standards except that it was written by a 17-year-old.  In some ways it was reminiscent of Christopher Pike's Master of Murder, a book about a high-school boy writing teen horror books under a pen name...but the books turn out to be nonfiction.  Amelia's Jessica writes books that are true, even though she doesn't realize it.<br />Caryn, a healing Witch, and Aubrey the vampire suddenly show up in Jessica's school and involve themselves in her life.  Once she realizes her books are true, Jessica has other decisions to face--which side does she join, the Witches or the vampires?  And what happens when she decides?<br />Amelia's writing hasn't matured as much since the first book as I would have expected; the flow is still too choppy, and she seems unaware of some of the subtler techniques employed in fiction (though I found one delightful piece of unintentional irony: the teacher calls Jessica's name for attendance. \\"Here,\\" Jessica answered absently.\\")<br />This was a decent sequel to a decent first novel, though I would have liked more about vampire Risika and the intriguing Witch Alex from Forests.  I don't plan to buy this book or any of Amelia's other books, but they are worth checking out from the library, and good for a couple hours of entertainment.  I'm sure I will read the next two when my library buys them.	2002-02-27
US	52787781	R24LJ0BOBQQ3P1	0618154019	945126360	The Fellowship of the Ring Visual Companion (The Lord of the Rings)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A nice movie companion	This book is full of great pictures, and that's the obvious reason to buy it.  For the fan of the movie, this is a must-have.  For a fan of Tolkien in general, this is a must-have.  Our house has two whole shelves dedicate to books by, about, or inspired by, Tolkien.<br />Purists will note that where the movie departs from the book, this visual guide follows the movie (ie the visual guide furthers the myth that Saruman creates the Uruk-hai, names Arwen's jewel the Evenstar instead of Arwen herself, etc).  Purists will also note that there appears to be a great deal of dialogue here that was cut from the theatre release (including Boromir's Dream &amp; Galadriel's presenting of the gifts)--one can only hope they will be reinserted for the Director's Cut version on a DVD!<br />The book is divided into sections: History, The Free Peoples of Middle-Earth (Hobbits, Men, Elves, Dwarves) The Istari, and The Dark Powers.  All in all, a wonderful visual companion for a visually stunning movie!	2002-02-27
US	52787781	R3HVTM9QD7DICF	0441008135	331795325	The Hob's Bargain	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Magic awakes	When I first read the reviews of this book, I was disappointed that Briggs hadn't returned to the world of her earlier novels (Steal the Dragon, etc), but I knew I would read it because Briggs has an unquestionable talent for telling a good story with a quirky sense of humour.<br />The Hob's Bargain is an enjoyable book with refreshing twists on old themes of love, beauty, magic, and vengeance.  My only complaint is that the timing occasionally seemed a little squishy; I finished the book a little bit vague about how much time had passed.  That doesn't detract much from the overall effect of the book.  I highly recommend this one and look forward to more books from Briggs with more of her capable-but-not-super-human female heroines.	2002-02-27
US	52787781	R17MJU5EAA6X67	0440228166	129534442	In the Forests of the Night (Den of Shadows)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A nice first novel	This was pretty impressive for a 13 year old.  As a 25-year-old who has been trying to get published since 13, I admit to some jealousy!  I was impressed with the way the author took the myths about vampires and changed them all--she didn't just disregard them the way another young author might; she actually took the time to explain them and why they weren't true.<br />The format of the book, alternating between the present struggle with Aubrey and her past, was nice.  It flowed well, and gave an intimate picture of Risika and her family.  Alexander's fate was handled well, and there was some nice foreshadowing.  Aubrey is a classic bully, and I did wonder why she persisted in believing for 300 years that she HAD to fear him, but the building conflict was interesting to read.<br />One problem I had with the book, which kind of flawed everything for me, was why her mysterious visitor waited 300 years to get in touch with her, when that person should have been able to contact her at any time since her transformation.  I haven't read Amelia's other books, though (have Demon in My View checked out for my next read) and perhaps that's a question that will be answered later.<br />I read this book in a couple of hours, and enjoyed it.  I'm not going to go out and buy it, and probably won't reread it, but I will read the author's other books.  I think she's a promising voice in YA fiction, and I'd love to see her mature into writing adult fiction as she gets older.  I'm not dissing YA fiction, because I'm technically a real adult but still love reading YA; I just look forward to seeing her handle darker themes in a longer format.	2002-02-26
US	52787781	R3MKDBVAE4I8BF	0060293152	374371506	The Two Princesses of Bamarre	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Charming but the ending was lackluster	Addie and Meryl were interesting characters, though I have to say I liked Addie much better from the beginning, and Rhys was an interesting character.  Levine's sense of humour comes out in this nicely, as in the case of Addie trying to operate Seven League Boots.  The Gray Death was an interesting disease, and I thought the progression of it to be original.  I also enjoyed the  dragon's character.<br />I had two real problems with the novel.  First, Rhys' magic seemed too convenient some of the time, and when it was absent, the absence, too, seemed rather contrived.  Second, the ending was the quintessential deus ex machina ending.  It honestly didn't surprise me, but it certainly didn't delight me.<br />_Ella Enchanted_ was a far better novel, and a better place to start reading Levine.  After that, move on to this book.  On a side note, once you've spent time with Levine's Ella, you might want to try _Just Ella_ by Margaret Peterson Haddix.	2002-02-22
US	52787781	R1CKWBQQSY4M4T	0441008283	199569263	Eccentric Circles	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A delightful debut novel	This was a pleasant and enjoyable read.  I always like to see new additions to the modern-fantasy or urban-fantasy sub-genres, and I look forward to reading more books by Rebecca Lickiss.<br />Modern fantasies seem to have as their standard main character someone who resists believing in magic, and Piper is definitely one of those--but you can't argue with an elf sitting at your kitchen table!  This book was somewhat reminiscent of _The Sword of Maiden's Tears_ by Rosemary Edghill, but _Eccentric Circles_ is much more light-hearted, which made it easier to read.  Does that mean I liked it less?  By no means--I actually prefer Lickiss' book because of the light-heartedness.<br />The characterization is good.  The novel is populated with lots of quirky characters.  The plot is fairly original, and the solution to the problem is original as well.  Certain aspects of the plot (a writer to the rescue!) reminded me of Holly Lisle's _Minerva Wakes_, though I think Lickiss handled the ending much better.<br />It was a one-sitting read, and doesn't deal much with &quot;deep issues&quot; though I would argue that accepting people for who they are, and embracing the differences between us, is deep enough to make this book more than a throw-away novel.  In any case, I'm glad I read it, and I'll probably check it out from the library again, though I'm not inclined to buy it at this time.  If you enjoyed the books I mentioned by Edghill or Lisle, you'll definitely like this one!	2002-02-21
US	52787781	R31LD2OBPTAEJ	0441008283	199569263	Eccentric Circles	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A delightful debut novel	This was a pleasant and enjoyable read.  I always like to see new additions to the modern-fantasy or urban-fantasy sub-genres, and I look forward to reading more books by Rebecca Lickiss.<br />Modern fantasies seem to have as their standard main character someone who resists believing in magic, and Piper is definitely one of those--but you can't argue with an elf sitting at your kitchen table!  This book was somewhat reminiscent of _The Sword of Maiden's Tears_ by Rosemary Edghill, but _Eccentric Circles_ is much more light-hearted, which made it easier to read.  Does that mean I liked it less?  By no means--I actually prefer Lickiss' book because of the light-heartedness.<br />The characterization is good.  The novel is populated with lots of quirky characters.  The plot is fairly original, and the solution to the problem is original as well.  Certain aspects of the plot (a writer to the rescue!) reminded me of Holly Lisle's _Minerva Wakes_, though I think Lickiss handled the ending much better.<br />It was a one-sitting read, and doesn't deal much with &quot;deep issues&quot; though I would argue that accepting people for who they are, and embracing the differences between us, is deep enough to make this book more than a throw-away novel.  In any case, I'm glad I read it, and I'll probably check it out from the library again, though I'm not inclined to buy it at this time.  If you enjoyed the books I mentioned by Edghill or Lisle, you'll definitely like this one!	2002-02-21
US	52787781	R16S7401QYG9YC	0441008038	433447844	Summers at Castle Auburn	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Not just a light-hearted romance	Summers at Castle Auburn begins as the story of the boisterous half-noble Coriel who splits her time between her grandmother, a wise woman, and her adoring & adorable half-sister Elisadora at Auburn. As the title implies, very little attention is given to the winters she spends with her grandmother. The story doesn't lack for that, however; indeed, the characters and developing tension at Castle Auburn are riveting.<br />The characters are well-drawn, though some don't become three-dimensional until the second of the three parts of the book--and some characters remain more two-dimensional than I would have liked. Angela is someone who becomes more developed as time goes on; Greta, however, doesn't get much development, and is seen as a mean-hearted, though not truly evil, woman.<br />The growing love relationships are nicely done, as well. From having a childish crush on the petty Bryan, Corie develops friendships with guardsman Roderick and Bryan's cousin Kent, both of whom are interesting young men. Elisadora's impending marriage to Bryan is a growing shadow, and the moral dilemma of slavery rears its ugly head as Corie grows older and gains more insight into the realities of her divided world. Particularly interesting is the subplot involving Corie's uncle, and her changing feelings for him as she finally realizes that we can and must love people in spite of their flaws.<br />The pacing of the story is good, though at times Corie's slowness to understand things can be frustrating to the reader (I realized by the middle of book two where the love relationships were going, but it took Corie until the last few pages, of course!) The means Shinn took to her ending was an unexpected and interesting twist.<br />I read this in one sitting, and enjoyed it immensely. I recommend it to anyone who likes a good love/coming of age story.	2002-02-19
US	52787781	R2IEX8KCNHFGFL	0618153977	669379389	The Lord of the Rings (3 Volumes)	Books	5	39	41	N	N	Product specific review only - no story comments	Tolkien is my hero, and the reason I began writing in the first place.  I don't feel like I can write a review that will do him justice, nor do I think I need to - far wiser people than I have written reviews of the books themselves.  This is just a note for people who are thinking of buying this particular boxed set.<br />The cover art is beautiful.  Fellowship is a panorama of Hobbiton.  The Two Towers is a picture of Gandalf and Saruman silhouetted in Orthanc.  The Return of the King is a group of riders, probably the Rohirrim.  Incidentally, in the back of RotK you get a sneak peek of Eowyn!  I was sorry when I first opened one that the map of Middle Earth wasn't in the front of the book...then I saw the huge fold-out map inside the back cover!<br />This is the fourth LOTR boxed set my parents and I own between us (the 1968 version is falling apart, and the one I got for graduation got borrowed &amp; never returned) and I don't regret the money I spent on it.<br />Indeed, my one regret about this set is that they didn't do The Hobbit to include.  They could easily have used a picture of Bilbo or the Lonely Mountain on the cover and issued a full set.  Still, there are some beautiful editions of The Hobbit out there and I'll pick one eventually to go with this lovely set.	2002-01-05
US	52787781	R1GWETNNPZ9U79	0553573411	675959125	Royal Assassin (The Farseer Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Continue the exciting saga of FitzChivalry Farseer!	This is more good stuff from Robin Hobb.  We continue the story of Fitz, the royal bastard training in the art of assassination.  His position in this book goes from bad to worse, and then to even worse (no, he hasn't seen worst yet)!<br />In this volume we have a delightful new character, Queen Kettricken, as well as the always interesting Lady Patience.  Queen Kettricken brings with her from her mountain kingdom the idea of Queen as Servant, which she attempts to live out in her new home.  The people here don't understand her, which causes life to be difficult for her.  Her dearest friend in her trials is Fitz.<br />Fitz has other problems to worry about, too.  The Forged Ones are spreading across the land, and Prince Verity's war with the Outislanders is growing more desperate.  People are losing confidence in him, and begin to speak favorably about Prince Regal, who wants Fitz dead.<br />The Royal Assassin, whose place was meant to be a shadowy one, serving the king in secret, has been exposed, and new dangers threaten him.  Fitz will have to make difficult decisions about what is right and what is best, and he learns that those two things aren't always the same.<br />Fitz's character continues to grow and mature over the course of this book, yet he is still very capable of making impulsive decisions and acting rashly.  The harrowing ending of this book will keep you on the edge of your seat and reading late into the night!	2001-11-13
US	52787781	RDWV7DZWW27UG	0553565699	463185109	Assassin's Quest (The Farseer Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A strong conclusion that leaves me hoping for a new trilogy!	This book is a rousing conclusion to the Farseer Trilogy.  Books like these three are rare.  I have read and re-read them more than once, and even though I know, as I am re-reading, what will happen, I find myself affected the same way as I was the first time.  (I spent the last hundred pages or so in tears!)<br />This book finally gives us a much-desired and highly intriguing character development of the Fool.  He has always been one of my favourite characters, and in this book he absolutely shines!  The shifting relationship between Fitz and the Fool is, to my mind, what makes this book; another strong point of the book is the shifting relationship between Fitz and his king.<br />This book does not have an easy ending; sacrifices are demanded from everyone, and in this regard, Kettricken comes into her own.  She was raised with the idea of Queen as Sacrifice, and here she finds her true calling in service to the Six Duchies.<br />Hobb is very careful to keep her characters true to themselves.  More than once you hope things will turn out great, only to find that, because of the characters' personalities, something not great has to happen.  I never questioned the motivation behind people's actions.<br />I am eagerly awaiting The Fool's Errand (to be released after a VERY LONG WAIT in January).  Just think, we poor lovers of Fitz and the Fool had to wait through the Mad Ship trilogy -- and I never had the heart to read it, because when I tried, it just didn't strike me as profoundly as the Farseer Trilogy.<br />Buy this book.  Enjoy it.  Then wait with bated breath for The Fool's Errand.	2001-11-13
US	52787781	R32NB2414KXRJK	055357339X	354609409	Assassin's Apprentice (The Farseer Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A FANTASTIC & unconventional new fantasy	This is the gripping premier of a thoughtful and original new trilogy! I picked this book up based on the fantastic cover art by Michael Whelan. After reading the back cover, I wasn't certain, but I decided to put down the five bucks or so to buy the mass market paperback. Boy, am I glad I did! I bought the second volume in trade, and was waiting at the bookstore for the third volume in hardcover.<br />Robin Hobb is wonderfully original, and her characterization is fantastic! You never catch her characters doing anything that makes you say, \\"Wait a minute, he wouldn't do that! He's just not like that!\\" They are flawed characters, some of them tragic, some of them flawed by the very virtues they embody. Fitz is a stubborn, willful boy, but he is also a very likeable boy. The Fool is a mystery, always speaking in riddles that sometimes seem wise and sometimes seem like nonsense.  Chade is dark, but also a sort of father-figure to Fitz, as is Burrich.<br />The narrative is well-paced, the prose comfortable.  The characters are drawn with wonderful attention to detail and stay true to themselves.  I can't recommend this book highly enough.<br />Hobb isn't actually as new to writing as you may think...Robin Hobb is a pen name for Megan Lindholm, so you might want to check out her other books, too!	2001-11-13
US	52787781	R216JRLUB3DH5G	0441005349	769238035	When Demons Walk  (Sianim series)	Books	5	94	103	N	N	An entertaining and exciting mystery!	This is a fantastic book!  I read it in less than twelve hours, and that's with working and eating in the middle of that!<br />Where to begin?  The characters are wonderful.  Sham is a complex character, with a painful past but the strong will to survive it and move on.  She is wily enough to survive life in Purgatory, the Southwoods slum, yet tender-hearted enough to learn to care for people she was used to hating.  Kerim is humorous, regal, dangerous, and intelligent--all the things we want from a hero!  The supporting characters are wonderful; Dickon, Elris, Talbot, Lady Sky all make the story better with their special personalities.<br />The writing is great.  The dialogue is excellent, with witty repartee between the characters that is absolutely believable and absolutely hysterical.  The description of surroundings and clothes are wonderfully detailed.  I could see the action in my mind as I read.  My one complaint about the writing would be the infrequent shifts in the third-person point-of-view; usually the POV character was Sham, but very occasionally is changed to Kerim, the demon, and a couple others.<br />The plot is intriguing...a demon stalking the halls of the Castle, with a thief/magician hired to pose as the Reeve's Mistress in order to solve the mystery.  And though you may have suspicions about the demon's identity, your first two guesses will be wrong!<br />I highly recommend this book, and I am actively seeking out others by this author!	2001-11-09
US	52787781	R2HOHDGFKQDAUH	0061020362	467408758	The Thief's Gamble (Tales of Einarinn, Book 1)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Excellent fantasy - I look forward to sequels!	This is a marvelously rousing fantasy.  I've been looking for a good novel (or series) to engage me, and this one kept me up late three nights running!  Unfortunately I ran out of book, and I'm still waiting for the sequel to come in at the library.<br />Livak is a warm, humorous character, tough as nails yet tender-hearted.  She's a skilled gambler and thief, and she knows how to handle a sword, and locked things have a magnetic attraction to her.  When she gets a chance at revenge and some spending money by stealing an antique, she doesn't expect to get caught up in an adventure that is quite unlike all the ballads she's ever heard.  Unfortunately, the person to whom she sells the antique is a wizard, and his proposition is just too good to resist.  Pretty soon, Livak wishes she had resisted.<br />The characters are wonderful.  Livak, of course, is great.  Geris the innocent scholar/mage, Darni the soldier, Shiv the wizard, and Ryshad the lord's liegeman, are only a few of the colorful characters we meet along the way.  Of all of them I have to say my favorite (after Livak) is Ryshad.<br />I highly recommend this book.	2001-11-01
US	52787781	R34N9511GIU7LS	0618150730	245463133	The Perilous Gard	Books	5	35	35	N	N	There's a reason this is a Newbery Honor Book!	This is a wonderful book!  It's not just for kids--I'm 25 and I read it for the first time yesterday.<br />Kate is a lady-in-waiting for Princess Elizabeth during Queen Mary's reign.  Her sister gets Kate exiled to the Perilous Gard, a keep in the middle of the Elvenwood.  Her new guardian, the sensible yet likeable Sir Geoffrey Heron is called away almost immediately, leaving Kate in the care of the menacing Master John.  Christopher Heron, Sir Geoffrey's brother, is a myterious and intriguing shadow around the manor, and there are rumours in the castle that he killed his neice in order to protect his inheritance.  The villagers have a different explanation, though: that the little girl was stolen by the Faerie people who tend the Holy Well.  As Kate investigates these rumours, she and Christopher are swept into a terrifying and deadly adventure.<br />The characters of Kate and Christopher are wonderfully round and engaging.  Kate is smart, curious, practical and sharp-tongued, while Christopher is honorable, guilt-ridden, and full of dreams.  These are two people I wish I knew!  Sir Geoffrey, Master John, and the minstrel Randal are also developed well.  Kate's sister Alicia, and the old maid Dorothy aren't so well developed, but still serve their functions in the story.  The Lady in the Green is a fascinating and mysterious character as the Queen of the Pople of the Hill.<br />I highly recommend this book - this book is definitely deserving of the Newbery Honor!	2001-10-29
US	52787781	R2WRKEGXCV6IEF	067988288X	173668273	Wild Magic (Immortals #1)	Books	4	29	30	N	N	A strong series-opener	Wild Magic is a great book.  The storyline catches you from the beginning, and the characters are intriguing.  Daine's secret is built well, and the different ways she interacts with humans and animals is well done.  Readers of the Alanna books will be glad to know that the lady knight will be appearing in this series, though not as a main character.  Other great new characters are Numair Salmalin, the mage, and Buri, the Queen's Rider.<br />Pierce's books are aimed at a strange demographic, since her main characters are usually girls and start a series around 10 years, but finish it around 18 years of age.  Still, I read the Alanna books for the first time when I was about eight, and I've reread them several times (I'm 25 now).  Same with The Immortals.  There are often things I overlooked the first time I read it, and as I got older, other things stood out to me.	2001-10-19
US	52787781	R1HX5EILQO1HLA	0385335555	718492514	Tell No One	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A gripping mystery	This book was returned to me by mistake (I don't own a copy), but after reading a couple of pages, I was hooked, and I read the book before returning it to the real owner.  David Beck married his childhood sweetheart, after a storybook romance.  But on their wedding anniversary, she is abducted and he is assaulted.  A short time later, her body is found, dumped on the side of the road and mutilated, an apparent victim of the serial killer &quot;KillRoy.&quot;<br />Eight years later, Beck is a doctor working at a low-income clinic.  He treats the children of prostitutes and drug-dealers, and cares for his grandfather, who suffers from Alzheimer's.  But Beck has never forgotten Elizabeth.  When he gets a mysterious e-mail on their anniversary, &quot;D.B. + E.P. /////////////////////&quot; he is floored.  Only Elizabeth would know the meaning of such a message.  Could she be alive?<br />Suddenly Beck finds himself wrapped up in a gut-twisting, heart-pounding race to find his wife before the noose tightens around his own neck.  Because for some reason, after eight years of believing KillRoy murdered Elizabeth Beck, the FBI is questioning her husband.  Not only that, but when he goes to his father-in-law for answers, he gets only more questions.  And now an old friend has been murdered, and someone is framing Beck.<br />My two main complaints about this book:  1. The point-of-view switching is a little confusing; however, after the first switch, I began to expect them, and it wasn't too difficult to follow.  2.  This is my real complaint--there wasn't enough build-up to the twist at the end.  Yes, there was a little (very little) foreshadowing.  I would have preferred a little more.  The reader gets a pretty intimate look inside Beck's mind, and I felt blindsided by the revelations at the end.<br />I would still recommend this to anyone who isn't squeamish (innocent characters do die, painfully) and who loves the mystery/suspense genre.	2001-10-18
US	52787781	RIF2ILXI3MKT5	0380733048	984276567	The Queen of Attolia	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Another excellent book from Ms. Turner	After years of waiting, Ms. Turner has finally written a sequel to The Thief!  You thought Gen was finished with his sneaking around?  Think again!  This time he's been spying on the Queen of Attolia (you remember how pleasant she was in the first book?) and he's caught in the act.  When the unthinkable happens, Gen must learn to draw on new reserves of courage and strength...and he rises admirably to the challenge.<br />Ms. Turner develops her wonderful characters even more, and elaborates on things from the first book.  Gen is delightful as always, a sweet and tragic character as well as a smart-alecky dare-devil.<br />I highly recommend this book, and its prequel (The Thief - a Newbery book).  I am looking forward to the promised sequel.	2001-10-18
US	52787781	RME6I18SZGQFK	0140388346	237471096	The Thief	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A heart-wrenching, heart-warming story	Gen is a young arrogant thief who is captured in the king's treasury.  To save his life he must help the king's Magus steal a magical stone that makes its possessor almost invincible.  Along with Gen and the Magus go Ambiades and Sophos, the Magus' aristocratic apprentices, and Pol, a soldier.  As they travel in secrecy across enemy land, they must learn to overlook their prejudices and rely on one another.<br />This is an exciting and moving tale about trickery, loyalty, and friendship.  Gen is an engaging character, whom I would love to know.  More than once I (21 when I read it the first time) found myself in tears over the way Gen was treated or the events in the book.	2001-10-18
US	52787781	R1Y1Q6DC5XTHPZ	0395616190	739009068	A Murder for Her Majesty	Books	5	3	4	N	N	I first read this at least ten years ago	And I keep rereading it (I'm 25 now)!<br />Alice's father has been killed in a not-so-accidental hunting accident, and she overhears someone saying the Queen will be pleased.  Fleeing for her life to the only person who may help her, Alice is stumbled upon (literally) by two choristers at the York cathedral.  They take her in and turn her into Alister and get her enrolled in the choir school.  Little do they know how near danger is...<br />I just read that there may be a prequel...if so, how exciting!  This is a delightful book, and I highly recommend it.	2001-10-18
US	52787781	R2694MRBU795MH	078571569X	152532989	Mairelon the Magician	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Wonderful Regency Fantasy!	This book was written for people who love Jane Austen and enjoy a good story about magic.  This one is set on the streets of London and in the English countryside.  Kim is a street kid who makes a living as a thief...and a good one!  When Kim breaks into the wagon of a performance magician named Mairelon, however, the magician turns out to be real.  What's more, the magician knows Kim's carefully-guarded secret.  Kim is a girl.<br />Fortunately, Mairelon is more intrigued than angry about Kim's trying to rob him, and he offers her a new profession--that of stage assistant to the great Mairelon himself.  As she travels the English countryside with him and his delightfully gloomy henchman Hunch, she discovers that Mairelon's magic is more than a show, and that he himself is wrapped up in some dark business which he will, undoubtedly, need her help to escape.<br />This is a madcap adventure full of laughs, with colorful and kooky characters, spies, magicians, druids (or at least aspiring druids), and a delightful French woman who escaped the unpleasantness with Napolean.  Read this, and read Patricia Wrede's other fantastic Regency Fantasies, Mairelon's sequel Magician's Ward, and the delightful epistolary novel Sorcery &amp; Cecilia	2001-08-22
US	52787781	RU2FHTUPLZVM7	031284879X	559330677	Daughter of the Forest (The Sevenwaters Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A masterful retelling!	I'm a sucker for retellings of fairytales, and this one is of the highest quality! This is based on the tale of the six brothers whose wicked stepmother turns them into swans; in order for the curse to be lifted, their sister must weave six shirts of nettles, and may never speak a word the whole time. Sorcha Sevenwaters is the witty, insightful narrator of this story. The seventh child of Lord Colum of Sevenwaters, Sorcha is a healer, even at the young age of twelve. Her mother died giving birth to Sorcha, and Colum's heart was broken. When he remarries, it comes as a shock to all of his children, and as the evil nature of his new wife becomes apparent, they plan to spirit Sorcha away from her.  She foils their plans, however, by laying a curse that turns them all into swans. Deirdre, the Forest Goddess, tells Sorcha that she can lift the curse, but that the path will be long and hard...and she's right. Her task will bring her pain, force her from her beloved Ireland, and endanger her life again and again. But she swears she will have the strength to save her  brothers.<br />I'm pretty well-versed in Irish mythology, and at many points I felt a sort of deja-vu. Juliet Marillier has done a masterful (or mistressful?) job of creating an engaging heroine whose years of self-sacrifice may be for nothing. The years of outward silence for Sorcha are brilliantly narrated. The descriptions and storylines are sweeping, yet the characters are very human.<br />This is the first book in the Sevenwaters Trilogy; though it stands quite well on its own, I was left aching for more about these characters.	2001-08-07
US	52787781	RP0YROO5EB2MO	0020427859	400011174	Over Sea, Under Stone	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Marvelous children's fantasy that adults will love!	Just because this book is about three children, don't dismiss it!  Simon, Barney, and Jane are compelling characters, and their mysterious Great-Uncle Merry (who isn't exactly their uncle) is a powerful and intriguing character.  This book is the first in a series of five, The Dark Is Rising Sequence.  All five books draw heavily on the Arthurian legends, giving us a new perspective on the Fisher King--though he himself doesn't get much time in the pages.<br />Great-Uncle Merry is an Old One, a very powerful immortal whose task it is to gather the Great Things of Power for the forces of the Light.  The Dark has begun the first stage of a great push for world domination that will continue for the next four books.   Over Sea, Under Stone, is the narration of the first battle in the last great struggle between Light and Dark.  This first book is about the modern-day search for a grail hidden somewhere near a village in Cornwall.  The children are on holiday, but Merry has not brought them here by chance.  He knows they have the ability to find the grail while he holds the forces of the Dark at bay.  But he hasn't calculated the dangers they will be forced to face...	2001-08-02
US	52787781	R2UGQZTNJOYSBC	0152016090	396228917	Court Duel: The Crown & Court Duet, Book II	Books	4	4	6	N	Y	Laughter, adventure, ROMANCE!	If you've read the first one, you already know what HAS to happen. I don't want to give too much away, but here's a quick teaser...The Crown War is over, and Meliara and her twin Brannaric are rich.  Bran goes to court to learn about government, but Mel, ashamed of her lack of education, stays at home to put things in order and educate herself.  She can't hide there forever, though, and pretty soon her brother comes home to drag her to court.  With her he brings two surprises...his fiancee, and the Marquis de Shevraeth!<br />The Marquis challenges Mel to come to court and judge for herself if he is a man she can support as king.  When she arrives, she is faced with a completely new set of challenges--learning how to act like a court noble, learning how to navigate the intrigue, and--the most interesting challenge of all--learning WHO sent her that ring, and is writing her those mysterious letters!<br />Horse races, sword fights, balls, dinners, parties, and other exciting events punctuate Mel's court education, and provide new challenges and plenty of laughs along the way.  I loved this book. It was witty, fun, and exciting. The climax was exciting, but I have to say that the resolution seemed rather forced, and had something of a deus ex machina feel to it.  Doesn't matter, read it anyway, just for the intrigue and romance.  I still recommend this book very highly!	2001-07-25
US	52787781	R11TA8YUH64E67	1556616996	813909635	Driven with the Wind (Cheney Duvall, M.D. Series #8)	Books	3	0	3	N	N	Okay but kind of a let-down	I'm going to have to agree with a lot of the other reviewers here.  I've been reading the Cheney Duvall books for the characters (not for the writing, which is less-than-stellar) and I was disappointed by the weakening of the characters in this book.  I felt Shiloh's scandalous behaviour to be less than convincing (but I realize they were _trying_ to make him seem wicked).  I thought the &quot;harrowing&quot; climax of the book was contrived and almost ridiculous.  In all, I was glad to know what was happening with these characters, but I think _Island of the Innocent_ was a much better-written book.  It will be interesting to see what happens in the &quot;Cheney and Shiloh&quot; series.	2001-07-25
US	52787781	R1TL52PJ31GH35	0312857691	504533718	The Path of Daggers (The Wheel of Time, Book 8)	Books	2	5	7	N	Y	Where is Mat?	Let me just say I don't intend to buy another volume in this series.  My favourite character makes virtually no appearance in this book.  Jordan seems to have written this book just to see how many suckers there are in the world.  In fact, I'm getting tired of this whole series.  There are too many characters to keep straight.  I think he's done a masterful job of creating a world and cultures (or adapting those of Earth) but I think it's time for him to end it.  I'll keep reading the books; I'm too vested in the characters by this time - but I don't recommend this series to new fantasy readers anymore.	2001-07-25
US	52787781	R31HU8B8LHU6MD	0312890125	266297556	Remaking History and Other Stories	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A must for historians!	This book might be subtitled &quot;A Future History of Earth&quot; because  of Robinson's speculation about where our civilization is headed.  He  explores alternate histories as well as possible (and plausible) futures.   My favourite story was the one where the Viking discovery of North America  was all an elaborate 19th-century hoax!	2000-08-23
US	52787781	RVDDJF0OQJYOX	1573227978	117734468	The Beach	Books	4	0	0	N	N	This book makes you think!	Alex Garland writes with insight and irony as well as humour. His characters are excellently drawn, and many have characteristics that remind me of people I know. His description of Thailand is vivid and artistic--enough so to make my best friend book a plane ticket for Bangkok after reading this!<br />The story itself seems to be a bright narrative of life in paradise, until Nature and human nature conspire against it. This novel is an insightful exploration into the darker parts of the human soul. At times I felt almost sick while I read this book, but at other times I felt a tremendous joy, both at having discovered such a well-written book, and at the events, characters, and setting of the story.<br />I watched the movie without knowing it was based on a book, and I admire Leo's performance. Richard's character is intricate and to some extent mysterious, and it must have been a difficult undertaking to become him for the screen.<br />I highly recommend this book, even to people who didn't like Lord of the Flies (I happen to be one of those people).	2000-05-13
US	52787781	R33IKV6TXHAJRY	0807002178	776269640	Belfast Diary: War as a Way of Life	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent portrait of life in Belfast	I have done a lot of reading on Belfast and the IRA during my work on a novel about a musician who grows up in Belfast and moves to Minnesota.  During the course of my own writing I have had many many questions about  what his childhood would be like and if I am being realistic in my  portrayal of this character.  This book was an excellent resource for me,  and based on the information in it, I have made some revisions to my  character.<br />Belfast Diary gives the reader not only a &quot;factual&quot;  picture of life in the war-torn city, but also evokes the spirit of the  place.  Many times, as I read, I found myself with tears in my eyes at the  extreme conditions Belfast natives accept as &quot;normal.&quot;<br />Conroy  lived with Catholics in a Catholic neighbourhood as he wrote this book, so  I have to admit it has a republican slant to it.  I admire Conroy for  putting himself into the poorest parts of the city and experiencing life  there for himself.  This is an excellent book.	2000-05-13
US	52787781	R2NRDYOL8UU62M	0590413988	309126467	Mystery of the Witches' Bridge	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Wonderful mystery with intriguing characters	I read Carleton's _Secret of Saturday Cove_ for the first time when I was about eight, and ever since then, I have reread it at least once a year (I'm in my twenties now).  Every trip I take, _Saturday Cove_ goes along  with me.<br />Imagine my delight to find another book by Carleton!  When  Amazon.com filled my order, I was ecstatic.  I read it out loud to my  mother, who loved it as much as I did; she's been subjected to _Saturday  Cove_ frequently.<br />_Witches Bridge_ lives up to the author's wonderful  skill for setting and characterization, and the mystery itself gave me  goosebumps - it was truly frightening, even at my age!  Still, it's not too  scary for children, and they will love the independence of the characters  in this book.<br />I highly recommend this one, and if you can find them, any  other books by Carleton!	1999-02-19
US	52787781	R1I76A4LQ4YM28	0886778247	174499108	Green Rider (Green Rider Trilogy Book 1)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Eagerly awaiting the sequel	Karigan is a strong and engaging character, and the other people we meet along the way are intriguing--people I'd like to meet! The setting is vividly painted; the author obviously loves trees. The plot is fast-paced, so you keep turning pages even when you mean to go to bed, go to work, eat dinner, etc...<br />I could tell this was Kristen Britain's first novel as I read, however. Awkward bits in the exposition and occasionally the dialogue caught my eye, and at times the action seemed almost melodramatic. I am very confident, though, that her books will only improve with time -- that is the usual pattern, after all. I loved the characters so much that I certainly intend to read the sequel, and I hope there will be several more.<br />Another complaint I had was that at the end (not to give anything away) I couldn't always understand Karigan's motivations for her actions. At the same time, I was almost certain there would be a second book, because of subtle foreshadowing placed much earlier in the book.<br />I don't want you to get the impression that I am trying to give a negative review here. I think this book is a great read, and I highly recommend it - but I think it's best if you remember this is her first novel.<br />Karigan and her kingdom are what I've been craving in fantasy literature for a long time.	1999-02-19
US	52787781	R3M99ENGJNPHL6	0312860048	487574206	Juniper, Gentian, & Rosemary	Books	2	7	7	N	N	Please judge her by Tam Lin, not this one!	When I finished Tam Lin, I felt like I had been spun around with my eyes closed - I was dizzy, but profoundly changed from how I had been before.  When I finished Juniper, Gentian, and Rosemary, I felt almost the same way  - dizzy, but slightly ill.  Pamela Dean has so much more potential than she  exhibits here!<br />The characters are bizarre and lovely, the atmosphere  enchanting, the literary quotes intriguing but overwhelming, and the plot  weak.  When I read the last page, I thought, &quot;Surely there must be  more!&quot;  The ending was akin to &quot;And then I woke up; it had all  been a dream.&quot;<br />I liked most of the characters, but I want more  Juniper and less Gentian.  The Giant Ants are interesting, but with the  exception of Becky, are less than three-dimensional.  The prose is  beautiful and humorous and lively, but ultimately is not enough to carry  the novel past the poor ending.<br />I liked Dominic, and as I read, I thought  I understood his motivation, but as it turned out, I never got the chance  to find out.  He was never allowed to explain himself or his actions.  The  ending was simultaneously too easy and too harsh.<br />Please do yourself a  favor and read Tam Lin before you attempt this one!	1999-02-17
