US	52784960	R1M2DB3L5T6T83	0715630008	205862379	Diary of a Man in Despair: A Non-Fiction Masterpiece about the Comprehension of Evil	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Diary of a man among apes	The title is a calumny. As his translator, Paul Rubens, points out, Friedrich Reck-Malleczewen was a prophet - not in the vulgar sense of one who predicts future events, but a prophet after the fashion of Jeremiah, William Blake and Dostoyevsky: one who comments on the present from the perspective of the Most High. As such, even when his own death is imminent, Reck most certainly does not despair. Like the three individuals mentioned above, he is angered, disgusted, saddened and horrified by what he sees around him; his journal is filled with images of Calvary, the plague, and the Apocalypse; yet he continually strives to see his own and his country's ordeal as a time of suffering and repentance which must be endured to make way for a new and better world. None of which is to say that his thinking is \\"mystical\\" in the sense of being vague or escapist; indeed, the immense value of Reck's diary, both as literature and as a historical document, lies in its brilliant combination of sharp observation and lucid analysis. Although he makes the all-too-common error of lumping in the plotters of 20 July 1944 with the many opportunists who tried to dissociate themselves from the regime as defeat began to loom, Reck's analytical passages offer as clear and concrete a picture of the corruption underlying Hitler's Germany as any historian I have encountered. Telling details of life in the Third Reich - the omnipresent thuggery and tale-bearing, the forced barracks-gymnasium atmosphere, the all-pervasive lies and propaganda - spring out of every page through tartly written anecdotes and vignettes. The peculiar detestability of the Nazi functionaries - frustrated schoolteachers and jumped-up mailmen posing as masters of the world - is described and analysed with perception and admirable loathing. This elderly, conservative, royalist aristocrat - a member of a class who, because they did not support the Weimar Republic, are too often labelled supporters of the Nazis - displays a courage, intelligence, breadth of culture and (I cannot emphasise it enough) a faith which makes his journal as moving a human document as the more famous diary of Anne Frank.	2002-08-24
US	52784960	R2I2BF97HZJB9Q	1572330961	909068123	The Fall of the Republic and Other Political Satires	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Shall not perish from the earth?	It seems incredible that much of the work in this volume has not been widely available since the publication of Bierce's Collected Works more than ninety years ago. It seems particularly incredible in the case of the two long satires, &quot;Ashes of the Beacon&quot; and &quot;The Land Beyond the Blow&quot;, since these constitute perhaps his most sustained attack on the absurdities of American society, and contain some of his most pointed and iconoclastic writing. Bierce himself seems to have held them in high regard, but until the Collected Works no publisher took an interest. &quot;The Land Beyond the Blow&quot; is a voyage to strange lands, undertaken courtesy of a large hairy fist applied to the narrator's eye; the various customs and other foibles of the peoples encountered serve to parody the government, judiciary, public taste, dog lovers, etc., etc., of Bierce's own time and place. &quot;Ashes of the Beacon&quot; purports to be &quot;An Historical Monograph Written in 4930&quot; and gives a few indications concerning the lamentable failure of &quot;self-government&quot; in America. It is less amusing and more analytical; and while practically everyone will find much in it to disagree with, there is also plenty to think about. Though generally conservative (with some startling exceptions) and frequently pigheaded, Bierce is neither a fool nor a hypocrite, and he makes his points with thoroughgoing clarity. His work as a whole is (among many other things) a lifelong battle against woolly thinking, murky logic and bad writing, and the pieces in The Fall of the Republic are no exception. Besides the long satires, the book includes a number of short essays on such topics as capital punishment (which Bierce favours), insurance (which he does not favour), temperance (which he demolishes completely) and the Decay of the Nose (upon which he is coolly judicious and commendably straight-faced). A further section is devoted to the Annals of the Future Historian, a series of pieces in which the Future Historian's misconceptions and presuppositions serve to point the reader towards uncomfortable questions not only about the present but, by implication, about the possible misconceptions and presuppositions embedded in our own perception of history. There is also a scholarly and sympathetic critical introduction by the editors who, in hunting out this work and making it available to a general readership, have done satire, literature and the rest of us an immense service.	2002-04-30
US	52784960	R24QKTBFIP7VFL	1587151987	506642072	The Throne of Bones	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Graveyard feasts	The fact that an earlier edition of this book got the World Fantasy Award for best collection of 1998 is one of the horror/fantasy genre's too-few hopeful signs. Brian McNaughton should have come to prominence a quarter of a century ago, when he published horror novels with sonorous, evocative titles like Downward to Darkness, Worse Things Waiting and The House Across The Way. These books were adroit, literate, and populated with unusual but thoroughly believable characters; McNaughton's publishers decided to overcome these handicaps by releasing them with titles like Satan's Mistress, Satan's Seductress, Satan's Secretary etc., and naturally they disappeared without trace. It's a dreary and all too familiar tale, but I mention it here as an optimistic example of the way in which good horror can sometimes rise from the dead. The resurrectionists in this case are Alan Rodgers and Wildside Press, who have brought to light the aforementioned novels as well as three collections, of which The Throne of Bones is the newest-written, the largest and the weirdest. It's also the most unified in place and theme: the  place is a luridly macabre fantasy realm, a decadent civilisation of wondrous perversity which clearly borders on the lands of Clark Ashton Smith; and the theme is ghouls. However, although McNaughton shares (and somewhat surpasses) Smith's sense of black humour and has a similar, though less deliberately archaic, richness of style, he also has more interest in plot and none of Smith's occasional lapses into cuteness and obscurity. McNaughton is also admirably rigorous in setting out the details of life as a ghoul - evidently a much less simple business than the mere eating of corpses and the cultivation of malodorous personal habits. For one thing, a ghoul can assume the appearance and some of the personality of the owner of the flesh it eats, which can lead to considerable complexities. For another, McNaughton's ghouls are not only monsters, but characters (it is also fair to say that many of the human beings in his work are not only characters, but monsters), and as such they demand and eminently justify the reader's attention, interest and occasionally - dare I say it? - sympathy. That's one more reason why this is not a book for the faint of heart, the rigid of morals, or the overly scrupulous of stomach.	2002-04-28
US	52784960	R182BTL1TIST4I	0940322552	34512891	The Glass Bees (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Millennium bugs	Captain Richard trained as a swashbuckling cavalry officer, but increasingly mechanised forms of warfare forced him to become a tank technician. Now, down on his luck after a life that reads like a radically compressed history of the twentieth century, he approaches the industrialist Zapparoni for a job. As the book came out in the 1950s and its author was born before the turn of the century, Zapparoni's products are called \\"robots\\" or \\"automata\\"; but they're a far cry from Asimov's Robots and Mechanical Men. As Bruce Sterling points out in his intriguing introduction, some passages from The Glass Bees, taken out of context, might easily have come from a computer magazine of the 1990s, blaring the wonders of miniaturisation and CD-ROM. The bulk of the novel comprises Richard's meditations before, during and after his interview with Zapparoni, and Junger's prescience is impressive not only in terms of the technology he envisages, but also in terms of its effect. Richard notes, for example, that the artificial bees' total efficiency in collecting nectar - not a drop left inside - will simply cause the flowers to die off through lack of cross-pollination. Written with brilliant and chilly clarity, and climaxing in an episode of restrained horror and terrifying ambiguity, The Glass Bees is an examination of the moral and cultural price of technology, from the perspective of a man who had seen plenty. However, although Sterling compares him with Celine, Junger is neither rancorous nor misanthropic. Indeed, despite the fact that Richard's wife is mentioned only a few times and never appears in person, the book is also a rather touching affirmation of human love.	2002-04-22
US	52784960	R2MJ5XEYZBCCI6	1859843808	593081815	A New Generation Draws the Line: Kosovo, East Timor and the Standards of the West	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Odious comparisons	Here Chomsky compares and contrasts the responses of western governments (specifically, those of Clinton's USA and Blair's Britain) to two instances of \\"ethnic cleansing\\", both of which received extensive media attention at the end of the millennium. In Kosovo, there was NATO intervention, a 78-day bombing campaign, and a much-publicised war crimes tribunal; in East Timor, at the very most, a few regretful shakes of the head and perhaps the suspicion that we are not, as yet, quite living up to our high ideals of truth, justice and liberty. Chomsky collates some of the facts underlying this apparent irony and shows that, as usual, the paradox has a rather simple solution. For example: (1) The indictment against Milosevic confines itself largely to crimes committed after the bombing began; it seems logical to assume that (a) \\"ethnic cleansing\\" in Kosovo was not a major motivation for the bombing, and (b) any crimes committed before the bombing are not a major concern of our new generation of moral crusaders. Nevertheless, on the grounds that they sanctioned and participated in \\"ethnic cleansing\\", Milosevic and his cronies have been routinely portrayed as the worst enemies of human life and moral decency since Adolf Hitler. (2) The 1999 massacre in East Timor (much advertised in advance as the inevitable consequence if a referendum concerning independence from Indonesia should go the wrong way) was the latest episode in an extremely well-documented record of slaughter dating from the Indonesian invasion of 1975. All the atrocities, including the accession to power of the Indonesian leader Suharto in 1965, with its attendant third of a million casualties, were carried out with western backing and with US armament and training. The solution to that paradox, then, is obvious: the west has, as is traditional, no problem with genocide just so long as it's done by the right people. Chomsky is adept at drawing out the salient points (e.g. the timing of the Serbian war crimesindictment noted above) from voluminous and often skewed information; and, as befits a scientist, his sources of evidence are painstakingly documented. The focus on two contrasted sets of events throws the Standards of the West into sharp and unpleasant perspective.	2002-02-12
US	52784960	R4LXUN6RV2EU6	0786709286	406676584	Algernon Blackwood: An Extraordinary Life	Books	4	22	22	N	N	Still alive	It was about time. Blackwood, who died just over fifty years ago, was one of the great twentieth-century masters of the weird tale; H P Lovecraft, no less, called his long story &quot;The Willows&quot; possibly the greatest weird tale ever written, and S T Joshi has said that his book Incredible Adventures may be the greatest weird collection. The more one reads of Blackwood, the more one is amazed at his present obscurity - an obscurity which may at last be starting to lift. The product of twenty years' research, including interviews with several people who knew Blackwood personally, this first ever full-length biography is an amazing achievement, particularly in view of Blackwood's cavalier attitude towards personal possessions, including documents. Ashley's extraordinary life of this extraordinary man details eighty-two years encompassing two world wars (during the first of which Blackwood served as a secret agent in Switzerland), innumerable travels round the world, near-starvation and vagrancy in New York, the high society of the 1920s and salvation by burning sausage during the London Blitz. Though clumsily written, the book's narrative is commendably clear; Blackwood was an immensely pleasant and sociable individual who met and befriended a great many people in the course of a long and eventful life, but although I raced through his biography I never once had to check back to find out who was who. Ashley perhaps harps a little too much on the fact that Blackwood originated the term &quot;Starlight Express&quot;, but he does so for a better reason than mere topicality - he's trying to emphasise Blackwood's continuing (perhaps growing) relevance to the present. As S T Joshi remarked at the end of his chapter on Blackwood in The Weird Tale, Blackwood is a writer waiting to be discovered. Ashley's book should shorten the wait considerably.	2002-01-21
US	52784960	R9K2RHOIFOV7L	0741406616	499730842	Mozart's Wife	Books	4	87	91	N	N	Historical anti-romance	The tortures of the Inquisition wouldn't induce me to confess to reading historical romances, so Mozart's Wife is perforce a historical love story. It's the first-person narrative of Konstanze Marie, nee Weber and in later life Nissen, who has been almost exclusively vilified or ignored through seven generations of her husband's biographers. They see a great genius dead at thirty-five, an unmarked grave and a widow minting cash from his manuscripts. Konstanze's story redresses the balance with an engaging and thoroughly engrossing picture of life as a woman in the late eighteenth century - the complexities of love and marriage, the practicalities of running a household, the horror of &quot;dishonour&quot; and the agony and danger of childbirth - and, in Konstanze's case, the additional complication of her brilliant, charming, vulgar, gentle, generous, philandering, feckless, irresistible and totally incorrigible husband. Though nearly immune to his musical gifts (her favourite of his operas, not unjustifiably in the circumstances, is the one that made the most money), Konstanze clearly contributes more to the survival of his work than the great man himself ever thought of doing. But although Konstanze touchingly recounts her life after Wolfgang's death, it's the Mozarts' life together that takes up most of the book, and it's the details of that life that compel the attention - the characterisation of Mozart's cold, stern and uppity family; the moving from place to place, buoyed up by an adoring Prague only to be dragged down by an indifferent Vienna; the endless, unwinnable battle to try and clear up the disaster area that is Mozart's finances; the exhausting and perilous ordeals of pregnancy, childbirth and what is nowadays blandly called &quot;infant mortality&quot;. If, towards the end of the book, Konstanze starts to behave very much like the hard-nosed money-grubber her detractors have accused her of being, it's more a cause for sadness than surprise. Her storydoesn't end there, however, and in an exquisitely moving scene at Mozart's grave she finally makes her peace with his memory. Written with a light touch behind which lies a huge wealth of research, Mozart's Wife is definitely historical, decidedly unromantic, and quite captivating.	2002-01-08
US	52784960	R3QL5YIU2EET7U	0394529685	565746979	Documents Relating to the Sentimental Agents in the Volyen Empire (The Canopus in Argos Archives)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The realities of Rhetoric	The final, and funniest, instalment of the Canopus in Argos: Archives quintet finds Klorathy, the Canopean agent who befriended Ambien II in The Sirian Experiments, dispatched to the Volyen Empire to rescue a fellow agent who's fallen victim to the dreaded disease of Rhetoric. The Volyen Empire, until now a minor outpost of the collapsing Sirian Empire, is in the throes of revolutionary independence, and the intense prevalence of rhetorical disorders on all sides has made the inhabitants nearly as crazy as those poor unfortunates on Shikasta. The Canopean victim, Incent, alternates between charging about the system trying to reform everyone, and collapsing into hopeless languor when his efforts go inevitably askew. Klorathy introduces a Hospital for Rhetorical Diseases (tactfully disguised under the name Institute for Historical Research) and, in between chasing Incent around the place and apologising for his own occasional lapses (&quot;Incent, WHAT are we going to do with you?&quot;), manages to bring matters in the Volyen Empire to a fairly satisfactory conclusion. The conclusion to the quintet, however, is more than just fairly satisfactory. The light touch Lessing brings to this work may seem at odds with the epic or lyrical tone of the preceding four, but it enables the author to do two very difficult things. First, she can finish her massive enterprise on a suitably Canopean note - neither triumphalist nor sentimental, nor even, thanks to the satiric style, capable of being interpreted in a triumphalist or sentimental fashion. Second, she can point to a partial solution for some (most?) of the problems she's been talking about all along. It's slightly discomfiting to find that the super-civilised Canopean archivists list Tchaikovsky and Wagner under &quot;Nineteenth-century Emoters and Complainers&quot;; but the discomfiture serves to show how profoundly human beings are addicted to Rhetoric of all kinds - verbal, musical, emotional, physical. Cold turkey inour own case is undoubtedly a very bad idea, but we can at least recognise our condition and try to discipline it into working for us rather than against. The Sentimental Agents in the Volyen Empire shows the kind of perspective we need if we're going to manage that before it's too late.	2001-10-30
US	52784960	R22JUXXDYKILDR	0006547184	113324300	The Making of the Representative for Planet 8	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Joining up	Planet 8, a promising outpost of the Empire of Canopus, undergoes a catastrophic climate change. Canopus had planned to move the people to a similar planet, Rohanda; but the wrecking of these plans, as detailed in Lessing's Shikasta and The Sirian Experiments, means that a more arduous course must be taken. As their home freezes with appalling rapidity, the people of Planet 8 must first adapt to the new conditions and then transcend them by forging a group identity which will preserve their society's heritage. They already possess the germ of this collective mind - most obviously in their custom of changing the names of individuals according to the social function they happen to be performing at the time - but there is still a long, hard way to go. Despite its science-fictional plot, The Making of the Representative is closer in style to the social/psychological myth-making of The Marriages Between Zones Three, Four and Five; certainly the prose is equally lyrical, and although the characters are (perhaps inevitably, given the theme) less well drawn as individuals, it's still a vivid, poignant, sometimes visionary piece. Appropriately, given its choral potentialities, the book was the basis of an opera by Philip Glass.	2001-10-22
US	52784960	R37SEPCI0ARCH6	0006547214	223629481	The Sirian Experiments	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Experiment successful	The Empire of Sirius, formerly the enemy of Canopus, has now for some time been its uneasy and mistrustful ally. Though highly advanced technologically, and despite being sophisticated social engineers, the Sirians are suffering some upheaval because of the many members of their population who feel that their life lacks a worthy purpose. Ambien II, a member of the Five who govern the Empire, is befriended by Klorathy, an agent of Canopus, in the course of their mutual dealings upon and around the planet Rohanda. Ambien II's education in the means and motives of Canopus, and her eventual realisation that, doubtless unique in the history of galactic diplomacy, Canopus means what it says and does what it promises, is the major subject of The Sirian Experiments. Doris Lessing has written, &quot;I could like Ambien II better than I do;&quot; which is a pity, for Ambien II, along with Rachel Sherban in Shikasta and the incensed innocent Incent in The Sentimental Agents in the Volyen Empire, is one of the most appealing characters in the quintet. Her growth from efficient, obedient social scientist (who deplores the changing of our planet's name from Rohanda (Fertile) to Shikasta (Wounded) as showing &quot;a  mixture of poeticism and pedantry typical of Canopus&quot;) into willing pupil, sometime rescuer, and eventually into that amazing paradox, the clear-headed visionary, is a triumph of characterisation. Her report - careful, thorough, just and drily humorous - betters Shikasta in its fusion of the personal with the cosmic, and contains one of the most spectacular set-pieces in the whole series, as well as some of its most poignant personal encounters. The ending is quietly ironic, without the sense of definite progress which was present at the end of the previous two books - the major breakthrough here takes place inside Ambien II herself, though further, exterior victories may just possibly be on the way. This book (not to mention the quintet as a whole) is the kind of thing science fiction was meant to be all about.	2001-10-22
US	52784960	R3L9B1KN9XFTMA	0394749774	473777495	Shikasta: Re, Colonised Planet 5 (Vintage International)	Books	4	61	62	N	N	Last and first men	Shikasta is the first, the largest (in bulk and in scope) and the most epic of the quintet collectively titled Canopus in Argos: Archives. It's a stunning work, one of the very few science-fiction novels to show any awareness of the cosmic perspective of Olaf Stapledon (Last and First Men, Star Maker), let alone adapt it into another, wholly independent vision. Shikasta is the name Canopus use for Earth; the word means broken, wounded, suffering. The book falls into two parts. The first is a science-fiction revision of the Old Testament, an astounding overview of the Canopean Empire's colonising efforts over vast forgotten tracts of time which have come down to us as fossilised, distorted myths. It makes for a breathtaking two hundred pages, rivalled for sheer dizzying cosmicism only by Stapledon, the best of Lovecraft and some of Stanislaw Lem. The second part of the book is the story of the Sherban family during the last days of Western civilisation; and particularly the story of George Sherban, an agent of Canopus who (as many times before) has taken on human shape in order to guide the evolution of the human race. Sherban's efforts, observed through the bewildered but movingly sympathetic eyes of his sister Rachel, and later by a thoughtful and humane Chinese colonial administrator, culminate in a vast show trial of the white races (the natives of what the Canopeans, with a fine sense of perspective, call &quot;the Northwest fringes&quot;) for thousands of years of horrific oppression. Despite the glorious writing, admirable originality and a total refusal to settle for easy answers, I'm not altogether sure this second part quite comes off - after the merciless dissection of human frailties in Part One, it just doesn't seem credible for Sherban's scheme to work. And the ending comes perilously close to suggesting that if we could only kill off nine-tenths of the population and live in geometrically perfect cities, all our problems would be over. That said, however, Shikasta remains a great and compelling work, always fascinating and often deeply moving - an amazing synthesis of the cosmic perspective with the political and the personal. Small wonder that it took Lessing four more books to work out the implications as fully as she wished.	2001-10-21
US	52784960	R32B8TNHHXRIT9	0394749782	778422605	The Marriages between Zones Three, Four, and Five (Canopus in Argos--archives)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Love in three dimensions	This second volume of the Canopus in Argos: Archives quintet marks a radical break with the science-fictional style of the first book, Shikasta. Instead, it shares with the fourth, The Making of the Representative for Planet 8, a more mythical, allegorical presentation and an aching lyricism of style. In the Canopean universe, the various Zones correspond to states of spiritual being: in Shikasta, Zone Six is a kind of limbo where people wait to be reborn and where the Canopean agent Johor/George Sherban picks up the two who will join him on Earth as his sister and brother. Zone Three, in this second volume, is a tranquil and apparently untroubled realm where, nonetheless, the birth rate is declining and a certain lassitude has overcome the people. Canopus (named here only as &quot;the Providers&quot; who know what is best and must be obeyed) orders the queen of Zone Three, Al.Ith, to marry Ben Ata, the warrior king of Zone Four - an altogether poorer and cruder place. The bulk of the story follows the progress of this arranged marriage from resentful acceptance on both sides through practical working together to solve their realms' mutual difficulties, to the torments of jealous infatuation and out the other side - whereupon Ben Ata must marry the queen of Zone Five, a realm more primitive and deprived than his own, and Al.Ith has become a stranger to her people. But the Providers really do know best, and the three Zones (and Al.Ith, Ben Ata and the queen of Zone Five) continue to evolve, interpenetrate, and share with each other what is needed from themselves. The Marriages Between Zones Three, Four and Five works equally well as cultural allegory, psychological myth or lyrical love story; it is also a pleasure to read.	2001-10-21
US	52784960	R1A9L1TIOVBTJC	0679777547	582743995	The Club Dumas	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Athos, Porthos, Aramis and... who?	Roman Polanski's delightful film, The Ninth Gate, is based on about half of this book. Fortunately, it's the better half. The novel concerns the parallel investigations of Lucas Corso, a solitary, cynical and not over-scrupulous book dealer, into two highly desirable items. One is a manuscript chapter from The Three Musketeers; the other is a seventeenth-century grimoire for calling up Lucifer. When the two mysteries converge, the novel makes an amusing point about the contribution of the reader to a given text, although not quite amusing enough to climax nearly three hundred pages of plot. There are also several too many cute postmodernist quips of the &quot;I feel like I'm living out the plot of a novel&quot; variety for my liking, but the prose is a pleasure and the story highly original despite the many literary references. This book also features the Devil in one of his more sympathetic guises (shown in the film reading How to Win Friends and Influence People) as the spirit of freedom, intelligence, curiosity and chutzpa; and the ending is most satisfactory. The Club Dumas is quality entertainment.	2001-07-20
US	52784960	RJ4E24CSHI9SR	1573928550	449071762	Atheism: A Reader	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Thou shalt think for thyself	Any book bearing the name of S T Joshi is worth looking into, and happily there seem to be more of them every day. This one is a collection of miscellaneous writings by authors from Lucretius to Gore Vidal, from T H Huxley to Emma Goldman, and including along the way such luminaries as Bertrand Russell, H P Lovecraft, George Eliot, Charles Darwin and Clarence Darrow. All of the pieces are arguments against religious belief, whether from the point of view of logic (as in the delightful extract from Lovecraft's correspondence, or Anatole France's careful refutation of miracles), or morals (Eliot's attack on mean-spirited fundamentalism, Nietzsche's magnificent rant against the lily-livered hypocrisy that passes for goodness among Christians), or just plain disgust (as in Gore Vidal's coolly disdainful dissection of the way in which the original Enlightenment ideals of the USA were betrayed when &quot;In God We Trust&quot; sneaked onto the money). (Not that we in Britain do much better - we still have an established State church; many of us baptise our children before they are old enough to walk, let alone think or speak; and on our coins we have &quot;Queen by the grace of God&quot; - though at least we have it in Latin, so that nobody understands it). There are rousing and tightly argued condemnations of just about every Christian virtue - faith, meekness, ignorance, priest-worship, misogyny and so forth. The book also has a very fine introduction by S T Joshi, commending it to the open-minded and consigning the rest to their quagmire. He may well be unduly optimistic in his assertion that, for the intellectual world at least, &quot;there is no going back to irrational piety&quot;; but books like this one should certainly help.	2001-07-09
US	52784960	R1HFRJTZV6F5NC	0292790503	35979834	The Weird Tale: Arthur Machen, Lord Dunsany, Algernon Blackwood, M R James, Ambrose Bierce, H P Lovecraft	Books	5	28	29	N	N	A real critic for real readers	In The Weird Tale, Joshi analyses the work of half a dozen writers whose influence on the modern supernatural horror story is either incalculable (Lovecraft, James and possibly Bierce) or else not nearly large enough (Blackwood, Machen, Dunsany). Joshi's central theoretical tenet is that weird fiction is an inherently philosophical mode, since it offers writers the chance to remake the world according to their own rules. H P Lovecraft is the prime example, possessing a coherent and thoroughly worked out philosophy which colours and powers all his best work. Much the same applies to Blackwood, though his mystical and sometimes sentimental author's personality was the polar opposite of Lovecraft's. Similarly, Machen's mysticism (whenever he could keep off his Anglo-Catholic hobbyhorse for long enough), Bierce's misanthropy and Dunsany's unique and complex blend of anti-modernism and ultra-Olympian cynicism all provide Joshi with a lens through which to see their work in its most rewarding light. The only writer for whom Joshi displays little enthusiasm is M R James, primarily because his work never goes beyond the ghastly-revenant plot - however inventively James may manage it at times. Joshi is miraculously well-read, has a sharp eye for the best among frequently voluminous works, and is even honest enough to say when he's talking from prejudice rather than analysis. The Weird Tale brings genuine literary criticism to bear on a genre where literary and critical standards have been debased to a condition rather worse than that of science fiction, and is of vast help in pointing out the works to whose quality writers (and readers) of supernatural fiction could aspire.	2001-06-05
US	52784960	R21IQ52RG0S806	078640986X	831899892	The Modern Weird Tale: A Critique of Horror Fiction	Books	5	19	22	N	N	Critical	The Modern Weird Tale examines the philosophy (or lack thereof) behind the works of Shirley Jackson, T E D Klein, Stephen King, Peter Straub, Clive Barker, Robert Aickman, Anne Rice, Ramsey Campbell, Thomas Tryon, William Peter Blatty and Thomas Ligotti, with an interesting chapter on Robert Bloch's Psycho and some of its loving offspring by Bret Easton Ellis and Thomas Harris. Joshi states in the introduction that the exclusion of authors like Richard Matheson and Thomas Tessier (to name but a couple) was prompted by his feeling that his book was already long enough. I cannot agree. Joshi is the most able and articulate literary critic to deal with supernatural horror in literature since the advent of H P Lovecraft, and his carefully argued critiques are desperately needed now that gross-out soap opera has all but pushed the good stuff off the shelves. I was a little disappointed with some of the emphasis in this work - thirty pages on Stephen King and only seventeen on Robert Aickman; an entire chapter devoted to William Blatty's sanctimonious potboilings while writers of the calibre of K W Jeter and Jonathan Carroll are relegated to the &quot;excess length&quot; department - but, after all, however much one may deplore the triumph of bestsellerdom, it's naive at best to ignore it. And even among the bestsellers, Joshi finds items worth bothering with - sometimes, indeed, items we would certainly be much worse off without. Even Joshi's deplored Stephen King is commended for Rage, The Running Man, Gerald's Game and some others. The chapters on the great writers - Jackson, Klein, Aickman, Campbell - are as thorough and rewarding as anything in The Weird Tale, although Joshi's antagonism towards Aickman's (admittedly unenlightening) theoretical views means that Aickman seems to get a little less than his due as a writer. Joshi has, for example, completely missed the point of Aickman's brilliant &quot;Ravissante&quot;, and his paragraph on the story ends, in effect, with &quot;so what?&quot; Still, The Modern Weird Tale is at least as good a read as the earlier book, and contains almost as many pointers to interesting material of which the reader may not be aware. Perhaps the best I can say is that, having got through its 260 pages in a day, I immediately went and bought Joshi's critical study of John Dickson Carr - a writer I have never read - purely for the enjoyment of reading what Joshi has to say about him.	2001-06-04
US	52784960	R3SCOV62TIABRH	1931081123	217081191	Father Panic's Opera Macabre	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Culture shock	Neil, a writer of bland historical fiction set in the Italian Renaissance, gets lost on holiday in Italy. Asking for help at a secluded mansion house, he meets a beautiful young woman and her strange, degenerate, Croat-origined family, including the eponymous Father Anton Panic. A passionate and delightful affair with the girl ensues, but when one day they play with the wax masks from the family's travelling-performer past, Neil discovers that his mask won't come off. There follows a long, hallucinatory, genuinely shocking stretch of writing, as Neil witnesses endless atrocities carried out by uniformed stormtroopers. Perhaps the most horrific thing about it is the utter lack of preparation, of anticipatory clues, in the narrative that's gone before; the reader is as overwhelmed with shock and revulsion as Neil himself. There is, in fact, no solution offered in the story itself; the historical context is only explained in Tessier's brief notes at the end. For Neil, for the story, the violence and horror remain incomprehensible, utterly unfathomable. The writer of saccharine historical romance is caught up in true events which took place barely outside his lifetime, yet about which he knows nothing whatever. This brief novel is challenging, haunting and horrifying, forcing us to confront yet more of the demons from Europe's unforgivable twentieth century.	2001-05-07
US	52784960	RWLAHTFA8EPNV	185798806X	1396600	Last and First Men (SF Masterworks)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	The long view	This one is something else again. My first copy cost five pence, second-hand; I was in my mid-teens and hadn't the faintest idea what I was getting into. Stapledon - who he? I read it from cover to cover that same evening, and the world changed. This book single-handedly spoiled my tolerance for about ninety-five per cent of science fiction. After watching humanity evolve through seventeen different species, three or four planets and aeons of time, I found that lasers and phasers and maidens from Mars just didn't cut it any more. The change of perspective was dizzying; the wealth of invention would dwarf an entire library of Isaac Asimov. The first few chapters may have been dated by events (the book's &quot;future&quot; starts in the 1930s, when it was written), but they still provide an interesting highlight on some of the author's attitudes. Once the narrative progresses beyond the first World State, though, it leaps from triumph to triumph, ever faster and more vertiginous, from the Martian invasion to the Great Brains to the Flying Men and their luminous suicide, from Earth to Venus and finally to Neptune, where the last species of humanity awaits its extinction with dignity. Stapledon wrote several other books of equal stature, including Sirius, Odd John, Last Men in London and the sublime Star Maker. Find them and grab them. In this age of Global Village parochialism and mindless heroics, we need perspectives like Stapledon's to keep our eyes open.	2001-05-06
US	52784960	R1L1SBNM50KZS5	0156278065	252798659	Eden (Helen & Kurt Wolff Book)	Books	5	29	33	N	N	Beautiful nightmare	A spaceship with a six-man crew crash-lands on Eden, an unsurveyed planet. The first part of the book details the men's efforts to dig out and repair their ship, working at first with nothing more than their ingenuity and bare hands. Eventually, the crew begin to explore, and wander through a gorgeously evoked, haunting landscape - the first of many brilliantly conceived alien worlds from Lem's mature imagination. Amusingly, the three scientists on board - the Physicist, the Chemist and the Cyberneticist - are the minor characters, good mainly for emotional outbursts and comic relief, while the other three characters - the Captain, the Engineer and the Doctor - are the fleshed-out human beings who do most of the acting, thinking and arguing. The explorers come across an insane &quot;factory&quot; in which apparently useless products are manufactured and then destroyed; they witness what appears to be a horrific massacre; they film, from a distance, the activity in one of the aliens' cities; and they cause, quite inadvertently and with no intentions but the best, a fairly substantial amount of death, destruction and general harm. Finally, they are able to communicate with one of the aliens, who gives them some idea of the planet's social system and history. As you would expect in a Lem story, what's learned is far from certain and of dubious usefulness. Eden is a wholly original, beautifully written horror story that deserves to be far better known. The last line is one of the most moving, disturbing and subtly horrific I've seen, bearing out the grim irony of the novel's title and the planet's name. Written in 1959, two years before Lem's more famous book, Eden deserves to rank with Solaris as one of his greatest works.	2001-05-05
US	52784960	R1P1M5VJAHWKL	0806509449	664524897	A Voyage to Arcturus	Books	5	56	59	N	N	The world through sharpened sight	David Lindsay is one of the twentieth century's greatest and least appreciated geniuses. This, his first book, is also his best known, although it's debatable whether the science-fiction/Tolkien-fantasy crowd, into whose hands it has generally fallen, quite have the measure of its overarching ambition and audacious vision. Tormance, a planet of the star Arcturus, is a young world where raw particles of life flow and are trapped in the creations of Crystalman, the god of the visible world. Maskull, a human being, comes to Tormance from Earth and embarks upon an epic journey towards Muspel, the source of all genuine life, which is in constant danger from Crystalman's vulgar machinations. Maskull meets a succession of characters whose various philosophies and points of view represent the stages of his own spiritual progress, until finally he sheds his &quot;Maskull&quot; (mask, shell) self and awakes to the truth which Crystalman's world keeps hidden. The fight goes on, a fight in which pain is an ally and &quot;nothing will be done without the bloodiest blows.&quot; This summary cannot begin to convey the complexity of this work nor do justice to its vast scope or the astounding variety of its invention. As he travels through the book's epic landscapes Maskull constantly mutates, growing new eyes, new arms and new organs, seeing new colours and encountering a member of a third sex. Almost everyone he meets soon dies, killed either by Maskull himself or by their own inability to evolve as he does - bloodiest blows indeed. Lindsay's prose is pedestrian and often clumsy, but always clear and never verbose; the story moves quickly, its most complex ideas given concrete shape rather than conveyed through abstract discussion. A Voyage to Arcturus is neither science fiction nor fantasy, but a vision in words, as raw, bleak and powerful as a Scottish mountain. The problems it raises are deathly serious and forever immediate.	2001-01-07
US	52784960	RA8MN1LPY6EDL	015600111X	469147190	Sade: A Biography (A Harvest Book)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Whip crack away	Donatien Aldonse Francois, Marquis de Sade, had the dubious honour of being imprisoned by three entirely different French governments: the Old Regime, the First Republic, and the Empire. He also nearly survived them all, dying (in prison) in 1814. He wrote a fantastic amount - his first and most notorious book, The 120 Days of Sodom, was inscribed in microscopic writing on a gigantic roll of paper. Lever's biography steers carefully clear of both condemnation and canonisation, presenting the Marquis as an aristocratic anarchist - totally incapable of bowing to authority or of being \\"useful\\" in the robotic utilitarian fashion advocated by the Revolutionary authorities. Accused of no real crimes other than \\"immorality\\" and a rather trumped-up charge of assaulting a prostitute, he seems to have been incarcerated mostly thanks to the malignancy of his thoroughly unpleasant mother-in-law; and if Lever does not portray him as particularly likeable, he certainly comes across a!s having wit, plenty of principle and more than his share of guts. And it's hard for any writer to resist admiring a man who produced so much of interest under such adverse conditions. Lever has thoroughly studied the Marquis' letters (at one point he gives a hilarious list of the nicknames Sade bestowed on his wife) and the historical background, which makes for a long, fascinating epic, filled like the Marquis' books with power philosophy, lavatory humour and the invigorating crack of the whip.	2001-01-06
US	52784960	RNCSZEOGV3ZBO	1881475778	871924113	Ghost Music and Other Tales	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Come dancing	Tessier's first collection took its time coming, but is well worth the wait. Cemetery Dance are to be congratulated for bringing it out, and for the quality of the edition - far removed from the usual typo-laden small-press horrors. Ghost Music contains nineteen short stories and the novella &quot;The Dreams of Dr Ladybank&quot; - the bleak and sordid tale of a doctor who exercises psychic control over a punk and a male prostitute. The story, told almost entirely from the point of view of the controlees, clinically lays out the merging of minds while brilliantly evoking the evil fascination of manipulation. The novella is also, perhaps, the culmination of a series of stories in which the central character's - often quite innocent - fascination with a particular thing or hobby leads to a horrific but poetically apposite destiny. Notable examples are &quot;In Praise of Folly&quot;, with its miniature city of perverse sound-sculptors, and &quot;Blanca&quot;, which combines police-state terror with apprehension of a less earthly kind. Several more of the stories concern male sexual fantasies and their unpleasant puncturing - the rich, vapid protagonist of &quot;La Mourante&quot; falls for a zombie because she is passive, tractable and without personality, while &quot;The Last Crossing&quot; demonstrates, among other things, the perils of having nothing to lose. Yet other tales, like the title story and the delightful &quot;A Grub Street Tale&quot;, deal with the perils of art - its persistence, its perversion and its frailty. Besides all that, there are stories like &quot;The Banshee&quot; and &quot;Evelyn Grace&quot; in which a casual approach to other human beings leads abruptly to insane catastrophe; &quot;Infidel&quot;, which makes an unsettling suggestion as to what kind of thing might be hidden among the vast libraries of the Vatican; and &quot;In the Desert of Deserts&quot;, one of three or four stories at the end of the book which show the strange distortions ofexperience that wait for us sometimes at the edges of our lives. The sheer range of style on display here is impressive, as is the variety of setting and character - &quot;Curing Hitler&quot; and &quot;Lulu&quot;, set in central Europe in the early twentieth-century, are perfect short evocations of both place and historical period. Appreciative readers of Tessier's novels will be disappointed with none of the myriad facets of this remarkable collection.	2000-12-22
US	52784960	R1K3B2UXNGXSBG	0253208874	37198627	The Films of Andrei Tarkovsky: A Visual Fugue	Books	5	18	23	N	N	Past the myth towards the magic	The first chapter's title is &quot;A Martyred Artist?&quot; and the question mark hints that some cherished preconceptions are about to be overturned. Tarkovsky seems to have enjoyed thinking of himself as a martyr, and the image has been enthusiastically endorsed by those in the West who believe in Hollywood freedom and Moscow manipulation - four legs good, two legs bad. Johnson and Petrie provide a perspective without slipping into that Charybdis of revisionist critics, the Dreaded Debunker Mode. The director emerges (from extensive interviews with a commendably large number of his collaborators) as a deeply dedicated, troubled artist, charming, impossibly perfectionist, sometimes childishly arbitrary and spiteful, hell to get along with but definitely worth getting to know. After some useful background information on the various hoops to be jumped through in the Soviet film industry and on Tarkovsky's own methods, there are individual critical chapters on all the major works after Ivan's Childhood, and the information they offer is often invaluable for a proper appreciation of the films. Particularly useful is the chapter on the outstanding masterpiece Andrei Rublev, which fills in some of the historical detail behind Tarkovsky's elliptical storyline. At the end are detailed plot summaries, running times and notes on different versions (interestingly, films like Solaris, released intact in the USSR, were horrendously hacked about in the &quot;free&quot; West); and four chapters covering matters of style which are perhaps the least substantial parts of this very satisfying book. The authors are remarkably fair to the Soviet film industry, presenting its bureaucratic meddlers' committees as not so very different from a Western studio or executive producer, and certainly not as monolithically philistine as we've often been led to believe. Tarkovsky was allowed virtually to make Stalker twice over when the original version didn't satisfy him - something Stanley Kubrick might possibly have finagled for himself, but it's hard to imagine anyone else in the West being permitted to do anything of the sort. Quite apart from its very fine critical comment, this book is a much-needed corrective to those myths about the director which have distracted too much attention away from the films themselves - attention which, as the book also shows, they ruthlessly demand and richly deserve.	2000-12-21
US	52784960	R3KIOG7VRY8JNX	0786705523	816060095	Horror: The 100 Best Books	Books	5	36	43	N	N	Yes, but what about...	Of course, they're not MY best hundred, or yours either - but that's the fun of it. Of course, there's a fair sprinkling of idiots and semi-literates - Shaun Hutson (on David Morrell's excellent The Totem) admirably lives down to both labels. Colin Wilson apparently believes that Stoker's Dracula can't be appreciated without a knowledge of Stoker's biography; the ever-infantile Forrest J Ackerman drools inconsequentially over a forgotten (and deservedly, by the sound of it) 1940s pulp novel; and Richard Christian Matheson is disappointingly vague and platitudinous about his father's magnificent I Am Legend. Also, the editors have cheated slightly in resorting to dead authors for some of their reviews - though this is of course wholly in keeping with the spirit of the enterprise, and is well justified by the presence of critics like H P Lovecraft (on Robert W Chambers' The King In Yellow) and Edgar Allan Poe (on Hawthorne's Twice-Told Tales). The presence of the writing dead also helps ensure that the late twentieth century is not more over-represented than absolutely necessary, though I could have done with seeing works by Thomas Tessier, James Herbert and Michael McDowell in place of James Branch Cabell (Something About Eve, reviewed in horrendously sloppy style by Robert E Howard), Jane Austen (Northanger Abbey is a lovely read, but horror it ain't) and Henry James (whose 120-page treatment of a 5-page story, The Turn of the Screw, is reviewed by R Chetwynd-Hayes with his usual pedestrian flippancy). (It's wonderful, by the way, to be writing a favourable review which simultaneously gives me the chance to pan.) The editors also commit the enormity of repeating the usual old wives' tale about The Castle of Otranto - &quot;turgid and unreadable&quot;; it's nothing of the kind. But the huge majority of these articles are thoughtful, well-written and calculated to make you rush out and buy all the titles featured, or at least all you can find - an unfortunately largenumber of these books are out of print, rare or simply unobtainable (E H Visiak's Medusa, intriguingly reviewed by Karl Edward Wagner, is a particularly frustrating example). But the advent of Internet shopping (not to mention Amazon.com auctions) may serve to ameliorate the situation until some enterprising publisher decides to bring out a 100-volume companion series to this book. It's about time somebody did. If your favourite author isn't reviewed here, s/he's probably a contributor - the only major one I can think of who's been completely passed over is James Herbert, and even he turns up in the extended bibliography at the back, along with Aeschylus, Dante and the ghost of the kitchen sink. Ramsey Campbell's foreword ends with the hope that this book will broaden the reading of whoever uses it, and it's hard to imagine anyone picking the book up without that hope being fulfilled.	2000-12-13
US	52784960	RA93QYHN91MJM	0679727221	916996744	The Defense	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Luzhin the lovable?	The correct title is The Luzhin Defence, referring to a chess manoeuvre; the shortened title culpably fails to convey this, and is as reprehensible as The Ogre for Tournier's The Erl-King, or Magister Ludi for Hesse's The Glass Bead Game. According to Nabokov in his trademark snooty introduction, the protagonist &quot;has been found lovable even by those who know nothing about chess and/or detest all my other books&quot;. I know next to nothing about chess and dislike only one of Nabokov's other books among the half-dozen or so I have read (Bend Sinister it was), so perhaps I may be forgiven for finding Luzhin merely amusing. From the very beginning, in his lovingly detailed childhood of the first four chapters, he's an almost completely hopeless creature - sullen, overweight, patronised and overborne not only by those around him - his parents, his &quot;chess father&quot; Valentinov, his wife - but also, most especially and exquisitely, by his Olympian and stratosphere-nosed creator. The only thing that inspires him is chess, the abstract joys of which account for some of the best descriptive passages in what Nabokov justifiably refers to as &quot;this attractive novel&quot;. Even those of us who are ignorant of everything but the colours and the pieces can enjoy the recurrence of black and white squares, the weird little Knight Moves of plot or gesture, and the verve and dexterity of Nabokov's prose. This was his third novel, written in Berlin, 1929, and Russian; translated by Michael Scammell and the author, it shows Nabokov starting to scintillate. Except for the final few pages, the last couple of chapters are a bit of a letdown, as Nabokov slackens the plot and indulges in some crude and unnecessary Bolshevik-baiting (&quot;I am not satirical,&quot; he declares elsewhere; quite true, but unfortunately it doesn't seem to have stopped him from trying now and then); but for the most part this is a magnificent frolic.	2000-12-12
US	52784960	R1AQQCYCJWJS6R	0679601287	705016221	Great Tales of Terror and the Supernatural (Modern Library)	Books	5	29	32	N	N	A feast	Now this is what I call an anthology. I have a special affection for this one because it's where, as a child, I first encountered three stories which have remained important to me ever since - Saki's &quot;Sredni Vashtar&quot;, in which a sickly boy makes a god of a ferret and is well rewarded; Guy de Maupassant's &quot;Was it a Dream?&quot;, in which a bereaved lover has a vision of corpses rising from the grave to inscribe the truth about their lives in place of the pious lies upon their gravestones; and what was probably my first Poe story, the out-and-out nightmare &quot;The Black Cat&quot;. Other gems among the fifty-odd here include Robert Hichens' &quot;How Love Came to Professor Guildea&quot;, one of the most disturbing ghost stories ever written; Conrad Aitken's &quot;Silent Snow, Secret Snow&quot;, a haunting study of childhood madness; and Richard Connell's &quot;The Most Dangerous Game&quot; - a breathlessly paced tale of sadistic sportsmanship which was turned, by the makers of King Kong (and on the same sets) into a far superior piece to the more famous, but idiotic, film. Wagner and Wise have managed to include virtually every famous name in the field (at least up to 1944), and they've almost unfailingly chosen from the authors' best stories. Besides the comparatively clumsy &quot;Dunwich Horror&quot;, Lovecraft is also represented with &quot;The Rats in the Walls&quot;, one of his first masterpieces; LeFanu is represented with &quot;Green Tea&quot;; Oliver Onions with &quot;The Beckoning Fair One&quot;; Arthur Machen with &quot;The Great God Pan&quot; and M R James with &quot;Oh Whistle and I'll Come to You, My Lad&quot;, one of the handful of truly great tales by this largely overrated (if academically acceptable) writer. Other contributors include Dorothy L Sayers, H G Wells, E F Benson, Algernon Blackwood, Richard Middleton (the comic &quot;The Ghost Ship&quot;), Charles Dickens, Edith Wharton, Edward Lucas White (the downright horrible &quot;Lukundoo&quot;), Isak Dinesen and Rudyard Kipling. If you know your tales of horror and the supernatural, you'll probably know some of the stories already; but the sheer size and scope of this collection make it a safe bet that you'll find some previously undiscovered treasure here as well. If you're tired of inept Stephen King imitations, this book came out two years before the prototype was born (the oldest author featured is Balzac, born in 1799). And if you don't know the field and don't know where to start, I can't imagine a better place. This hardcover edition is also extremely well made, with Fuseli's &quot;The Nightmare&quot; as wholly appropriate jacket illustration.	2000-11-28
US	52784960	R3I2COLYLWETHX	0140266348	543648921	Richard III: England's Black Legend	Books	4	3	6	N	N	The virtues of villainy	Which would you rather be - a martyr to malignant propaganda or a Shakespearean villain? Richard III is perhaps England's most unpopular king, both with posterity and with his contemporaries; the only other one who even comes close is King John. Both monarchs have their defenders, but Richard's seem to be the more vocal, probably because of the enduring popularity of Shakespeare's play. Desmond Seward's book is commendably clear in dealing with the horrendous complexities of fifteenth-century politics, and does much to dispose of the falsehoods committed by Shakespeare in the name of Tudor propaganda. Interestingly, this redress consists less in rehabilitating Richard than in showing his enemies in a less flattering perspective: Elizabeth Woodville, the wife of Edward IV, is a particularly entertaining and abominable example. (My favourite, though, is Lord Stanley, whose son Richard kidnapped, as in the play, in order to ensure the father's loyalty. As in the play, Stanley changed sides anyway; but Shakespeare omits to tell us that when Richard reminded Stanley of the danger to his beloved offspring Stanley sent a message back saying he had plenty of other sons.) Richard himself, though hardly the grotesque hunchback presented in the play, was in Seward's opinion fairly accurately portrayed as far as his character is concerned (a great deal more accurately than, say, Macbeth); the book shows him as an early Machiavellian whose major strategic error seems to have been that he expected his friends to stay bought. Seward is concise, nicely detailed and - best of all - opinionated; he not only argues against Richard's present-day rehabilitators but seems quite indignant that anyone would want to sanitise the reputation of such a fascinating villain.	2000-11-27
US	52784960	R1GGY2OVRFUKC2	0253213908	353908607	Kubrick, New and Expanded Edition: Inside a Film Artist's Maze	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A wonderful view	There can be no greater praise for a book about Kubrick than to say that it is worthy of its subject. This one is. The opening chapter gives the bare biographical facts, and attempts to dispel a few of the myths about Kubrick's personality - not least the idea that, for example, a man's real or journalistically endowed flying phobia should have the least relevance for a viewer or a critic of his films. The next chapter analyses the early films up to the first masterpiece, Paths of Glory; and each subsequent film (except for the compromised Spartacus) has a chapter to itself. Nelson's critiques are detailed, comprehensive, thoroughly readable and constructive - which is to say, favourable. He appreciates the films and wishes others to appreciate them too. This revised and expanded edition contains, in the first chapter, a charming tribute to the director and, in two new chapters, analyses of Full Metal Jacket and Eyes Wide Shut which show that, in the intervening years between The Shining and the present, Nelson's abilities have diminished as little as Kubrick's. All the essays in the book can be read and enjoyed for their own sake - I was especially fond of the one on A Clockwork Orange, long before I was able to see the film itself - but they will also make you long to be back there in the dark, sharing the artist's vision with the eyes Nelson has widened for you.	2000-11-26
US	52784960	R2S1B4WNK5QW2D	0679729437	2113906	The History of Luminous Motion	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Bright madness of childhood	The History of Luminous Motion is compact and clear as a diamond, as beautiful and strange as its title. Phillip is an eight-year-old psychotic genius, attempting through science, philosophy, action, abstraction and the glittering poetry of his narrative to make sense of the world he inhabits. No easy solutions here; there's no way of knowing what is &quot;real&quot; and what isn't, and the glib jargon of the policemen, psychologists and Juvenile Correction Officers at the end serves merely to emphasise the mystery of Phillip's condition. Reading this book, I was reminded of several others, notably Shirley Jackson's We Have Always Lived in the Castle and Arthur Machen's story &quot;The White People&quot; - both of which weave beauty, insanity and youth into their heroines' dark, potent and obsessive autobiographies. But The History of Luminous Motion, while it may be more closely related to these works than to much else, is unique in its evocation of a mind at once more-than-adult in its intellectual capacity and infant in its emotional solipsism; the philosophical conversations Phillip holds with his friends Rodney and Beatrice are among the funniest and most deeply disturbing parts of the book. Perhaps most remarkable of all is the seamlessness of both the character and the story - you never forget for a moment that Phillip is only eight years old, any more than you forget the power, the sensitivity or the sickness of his mind. The ending is sudden, elliptical and heart-rending. Buy it and be haunted.	2000-11-25
US	52784960	R31DCNKPWFV2J5	0822215314	381931257	Quills.	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Taking over the asylum	The Marquis de Sade, locked away in Charenton lunatic asylum because of his licentious habits and scandalous literary works, continues to write. Madame de Sade, distressed by the way her husband's reputation is sending her own into free-fall, begs the asylum's director, Dr Royer-Collard, for help. Together with the pious Abbe Coulmier, Royer-Collard deprives the Marquis of his ink, pens and paper. The Marquis must resort to ever more desperate stratagems in order to continue writing, with dreadful and peculiar consequences for both himself and his zealous censors. Where the original Marquis pulled out all the Gothic stops in his massive... well, organ... Wright flings them across the room and, cackling fiendishly, hooks up a loudspeaker or two as well. The dialogue is witty and ironic, and is used to perfection in contrasting the put-upon but sardonic Marquis with his rational, moral, enlightened and increasingly desperate jailers. Constantly writing, taunting his tormentors with their own self-righteousness, calling them things like &quot;my little kumquat&quot; and never, ever giving up, the Marquis is a true writer's writer, and Quills is a hilarious, captivating Grand Guignol, entirely worthy of its depraved, indefatigable and (perhaps just a teensy weensy bit) romantic hero. You might also be interested in Maurice Lever's fine hefty biography of the original Marquis - perhaps Quills isn't so far from the truth after all.	2000-11-24
US	52784960	R3CKMHGPEFQBBI	0156306301	760697829	Fiasco	Books	5	76	77	N	N	Hard science fiction	How hard can you take it? Fiasco is the fourth and most pessimistic of Lem's \\"contact\\" novels (after Eden, The Invincible and Solaris). Humanity undertakes its first interstellar voyage in the hope of making contact with the inhabitants of the planet Quinta, but the aliens won't play ball and all the scientists can do, as usual, is present various theories which achieve little, nothing, or worse than nothing. The basic problem is a simple one (and a recurrent Lem theme): how can human beings hope to recognize, let alone understand or talk to, creatures which are wholly different in their biological and technological heritage? There's a good deal of technical discussion, concerning both the possibilities of contact and the workings of interstellar travel, which might prove difficult going; but if you stick with it the paradoxes are delightful, though hardly encouraging; and the descriptive passages are as good as anything in Solaris. The opening chapter is a stunning jou!rney through a literally titanic landscape, and although it might at first seem rather loosely related to the rest of the book, its perspective on the \\"heroic\\" protagonist is vital to the ending - another set-piece in a beautifully evoked alien landscape, this time on Quinta. Heroism, even human-ness itself, when confronted with the alien, is not just an irrelevance (as it is to varying degrees in the three previous books) but a deadly liability. Even now that it can resurrect the dead and travel to the stars, humanity still can't see outside itself. The expedition, though a miracle of human endeavour, is a fiasco. But Fiasco is a hard, ironic, sometimes breathtaking triumph.	2000-11-22
US	52784960	R57F0LBECXGL3	0312180985	630884406	Fog Heart	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Cold comfort	Oona, a strange, ethereal, suicidal young medium, brings together two married couples. Charley and Jan are haunted by guilt over the death of their infant daughter; Carrie is haunted by visions of her dead father and a murderous, faceless man, while her husband Oliver, blandly guiltless though hideously culpable, is haunted only by the thought that Oona may know more about him than he would like. And Oona, too, has a guilt and a ghost of her own, perhaps the deepest and most awful of them all. Three harrowing psychic episodes, steadily increasing in horrific revelation, entwine all these separate hauntings and bring them to a head. Perhaps, as Oona says, &quot;ghosts are a kind of redemption&quot;; if so, they exact a terrible price. Or perhaps, as Charley bitterly imagines, the &quot;afterlife&quot; is as aimless, chaotic and incomprehensible as life on earth. Which would you prefer? Characteristically, Tessier gives no pat explanations and no easy answers. The ending leaves the two relatively innocent characters alive but devastated by what they have witnessed (supernatural in one case, earthly but hardly natural in the other); however, although nothing is guaranteed, the novel is saved from utter blackness by the tentative reassurances which Oona gives to both survivors. Fog Heart is a superb, complex, bleak modern ghost story, written in Tessier's usual cool, clear style: anything but foggy and without a single wasted word. The characters are beautifully drawn, the set-piece psychic sessions utterly riveting, the visions of Carrie and Charlie described, like Oliver's murderous violence, briefly but with a poet's power.	2000-11-21
US	52784960	R37LG97DQ1IN8F	0156340402	536588166	The Futurological Congress: From the Memoirs of Ijon Tichy	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Round the bend with Ijon Tichy	Lem's intrepid protagonist Ijon Tichy, the scientist, space traveller, diarist and sometime saver of the universe, here attends a congress in Costa Rica on What Is To Be Done About The State Of Things On Earth. He is just getting into the proceedings when, as usual, revolution breaks out, forcing the government to bombard the hotel with benignimising drugs. From then on, it's downhill all the way as our stoical hero endures more drugs, umbrella-points, hand grenades, more drugs, radical experimental surgery, death, suspended animation, the future and yet more drugs. Far and away Lem's battiest book, and his funniest after The Cyberiad, The Futurological Congress is a maniacal take on the dangers of complacency, overpopulation and virtual realities of the chemical kind. The translator, Michael Kandel, has done an incredible job rendering the verbal humour into English - all the more incredible in that much of it consists of neologisms (drug names, varieties of robot defect, old words with new meanings) and puns that should be outlawed under the Geneva Convention (religion-inducing drug = quaker oats). There's even a school of &quot;futurologians&quot; who believe they can predict the shape of things to come by theorising about the evolution of language; hence from the word &quot;Myself&quot; we get &quot;I, my, mynd. Thy mynd - thynd. And ego makes wego...we're talking about the fusion of the mynd with the thynd...&quot; Multiple personality dissociation, of course, is a mygraine. (And if you think that's bad, you should see some of the jokes in the Polish version.) This is a hilarious piece of sustained insanity (I've never known anyone, even Lem, to be quite this zany for a hundred and seventy pages together), and an absolute masterpiece of translation.	2000-11-12
US	52784960	R2J5PSTHK6P1RZ	0812505042	691093854	The Time Machine	Books	5	50	53	N	N	Past and present masterpiece	This is the little number that started it all. For the English-speaking world (some translations of Verne possibly aside), science fiction begins with the four brief, brilliant novels published by H G Wells in the 1890s. The War of the Worlds is a still-unsurpassed alien invasion story; The Invisible Man one of the first world-dominating mad scientist tales; and The Island of Dr Moreau a splendidly misanthropic story of artificial evolution and genetic modification. But The Time Machine came first, launching Wells' career in literature; and, after just over a century, there still isn't anything nearly like it. A Victorian inventor travels to the year 802701, where the class divisions of Wells' day have evolved two distinct human races: the helpless, childlike and luxurious Eloi and the monstrous, mechanically adept and subterranean Morlocks. Predictably, the film version turned them into the usual Good Guys and Bad Guys, though it's still worth seeing, particularly for its conception of the Time Machine itself - a splendid piece of Victorian gadgetry. The book, despite its sociological-satirical premise, is rather more complex in its treatment of the opposed races, and the Time Traveller's voyage ends, not with them, but still further in the future, with images of a dead sun and a dark earth populated only by scuttling, indefinite shadows. As in the other three novels, too, the premise of the story is carefully worked out and clearly explained - a discipline largely beyond science fiction today, in which time travel, invading aliens or whatever are simply taken for granted as convenient genre props and automatic thought-nullifiers. After more than a century, The Time Machine is still waiting for the rest of us to catch up.	2000-11-11
US	52784960	RMFLIMTXEWW7S	0679752978	516892648	Galactic Pot-Healer	Books	4	24	25	N	N	No glue required	According to the author's biographer, Laurence Sutin, Dick didn't much care for this book. I can't imagine why, except that in his more determinedly resolute moments he may have considered the ending too patly pessimistic. I agree with Sutin's rating: Pot-Healer is a gem. Rarely for Dick, it has only a single point-of-view character, the pot-healer (not mender), stranded in a Stalinist USA of the 2040s, who is somewhat circuitously approached by the Glimmung - a possibly divine, certainly whimsical entity of faraway Plowman's Planet. The Glimmung is putting together a collaborative enterprise of life-forms from around the galaxy in order to raise a sunken cathedral, and along the way our hero meets with some spectacular inconveniences, including his own corpse and a book in which his future (or one of them) is inscribed (possibly), occasionally in language he can understand. This is one of Dick's funniest and most enjoyable books, putting a light touch to many of his favourite issues. It's as packed with energy and invention as any of his more famous works and, perhaps because of the single point of view, feels more focused and coherent than many - and this in spite of the fact that its epic plot and impressive special effects all take place within the space of less than a hundred and eighty pages.	2000-11-11
US	52784960	R298SQIAI6BFHV	0899684165	359707094	Cold Hand in Mine	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Take it and hold on tight	Along with Sub Rosa, one of the twentieth century's two or three greatest collections of weird fiction, Cold Hand in Mine stands among Aickman's best books. It contains eight &quot;strange stories&quot;, his preferred term for his own works and a very apposite label: more ambiguous and more inclusive than the usual &quot;ghost story&quot; rubric, and much more appropriate to Aickman's achievement, which in his best stories is less that of a teller of ghostly tales than that of the ghost itself. &quot;The Hospice&quot;, in which a man spends a night at the establishment of the title, is a brilliant example. The surroundings are luxurious, the food plentiful and rich, the staff polite and obliging; yet the guests (inmates?) are prone to strange moods and night-time excursions - and at least one of them is chained to the wall during dinner. The protagonist leaves the Hospice in the morning, physically unharmed but riding in a hearse which has come for one of the residents. Sexual unease and perversity pervade several of the tales, most spectacularly &quot;The Swords&quot;, in which a beautifully described, tatty circus act is the instrument of a young man's fall from innocence; and &quot;Niemandswasser&quot;, one of the best in this best of collections, in which a German aristocrat, alone in the unclaimed, desolate middle of an icy lake (&quot;no man's water&quot;), meets a dreadful female apparition with a mouth of spiny, fishlike teeth. More conventional and far more civilised is the vampire story &quot;Pages from a Young Girl's Journal&quot;; but that's the only nod to genre conventions you're likely to find here. &quot;The Same Dog&quot;, with its weird deja-vu plot; &quot;Meeting Mr Millar&quot; with its narrator's haunted neighbour; &quot;The Clock Watcher&quot;, which is partly, perhaps, about the triumph of time over love; and &quot;The Real Road to the Church&quot;, in which a woman witnesses a strange ceremony, then meets, and flees from, the image of her ownsoul, are all exquisitely written, startling and haunting. An encounter with a real ghost could hardly be more unsettling than an encounter with one of Aickman's stories.	2000-11-11
US	52784960	R2AWR2L99YN17I	0451191153	594264062	The Fountainhead	Books	3	8	12	N	N	Barbara Taylor Bradford on steroids, or better	I suspect it took a certain amount of guts to write a book like this in the 1940s, with Hitler recently disposed of and the literary trend for kitchen sinks and bedpans just getting underway - a trend which is still very much with us, as the popularity of cute little writers like Kingsley Amis clearly demonstrates. The Fountainhead deals with large, roughly drawn, simpler-than-life characters - a visionary architect, his compromising colleague, a press baron, a woman who at one time or another marries all three of them, and a slimy newspaper pundit - all of them engaged in a battle which (Rand makes it very very obvious indeed) is nothing less than the war for Truth against Lies, for Freedom against Oppression, for the very Soul of Man against those Forces which would drag it down into the mire. Until the very end, when the architect starts spouting, for ten straight pages, the very same morals which have been pounded into us with exemplary force over the preceding seven hundred, it works remarkably well, thanks to Rand's vivid and mercifully unpretentious prose and her evident conviction. People have complained that the hero is inhuman, but that's precisely the point - heroes aren't supposed to have the petty failings of the rest of us, and until the nineteenth century they generally didn't. Howard Roark is an optimistic, present-day, &quot;realist&quot; revision of the old dragon-slaying Beowulf/Siegfried type; the casting of Gary Cooper in the equally interesting and equally bombastic film version was an inspiration. Where the book fails is in Rand's inability to find a plausible way for Roark to win through against the odds she has so convincingly shown to be stacked against him. She uses a deus ex machina in the form of a newspaper tycoon - imagine Rupert Murdoch throwing his weight behind Frank Lloyd Wright or Antonio Gaudi - and, later, that good old standby the Great American Jury. Laissez-faire capitalism, and the democracy Rand has so beautifully satirisedand demolished in the person of columnist Ellsworth Toohey, join hands and become twin fairy godmothers magicking the hero to his wedding and a great career. It's a disappointingly cowardly ending to a largely well-written and uncompromisingly epic work that is also, and not least importantly, one hell of a page-turner.	2000-11-06
US	52784960	R18DFWWWMT21K1	1857989147	487798618	The Book of Skulls	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Not just an SF masterwork	If this had not been written by Robert Silverberg, it would be a brilliant &quot;mainstream&quot; novel. I'm not sure if that's praise or not, but perhaps it might help gain the book the readership it deserves. Horrifyingly, I got to read it purely by chance. I'd never heard of the ... thing before; I bought it because of the title, because I'm a sucker for books about ancient manuscripts and immortal cults, and because many years ago I read and enjoyed Silverberg's The Stochastic Man (similar premise to Asimov's Foundation books, in case you're interested, but a much better development). The Book of Skulls, an ancient manuscript, tells of a sect which offers immortality to two people at a time, but in order for them to attain it one other must commit suicide (so that the others may learn the meaning of self-denial) and one must be murdered by the others (so that they may learn the meaning of exclusion). The story, told in the first person by four American students, is partly a horror story, partly a (loathsome phrase) &quot;novel of ideas&quot;, partly a brilliant character study, and partly an intriguing (and possibly terrifying) speculation upon the meaning and consequences of sin. I would never dream of calling this science fiction; if I had to draw comparisons, I would call it an example of the kind of literature represented by David Lindsay's A Voyage to Arcturus and Leo Perutz' Saint Peter's Snow. But if they had to market it as an &quot;SF masterwork&quot; in order to getit back into print, as with Stapledon's Last and First Men and Star Maker, then the end has amply justified the means. Whether you read science fiction or not, read this.	2000-11-04
US	52784960	R3P2DO8LQ9590	0231065515	817274118	Hitchcock's Films Revisited	Books	3	6	15	N	N	Well worth a second glance	Good news first. This book is very good on the films of Hitchcock's Great Decade (1954-1965, from Rear Window through Marnie). There are extensive analyses of all Hitchcock's greatest American films, and there's also a lot of interesting feminist stuff on works like Spellbound and, especially, Notorious and the American (1956) version of The Man Who Knew Too Much. A lot of this was in the original edition, and I'm not sure that the revisit has been greatly to the book's benefit, though Wood deserves credit for leaving the original as it stood and contenting himself with comment rather than alteration. It's frustrating, for example, that Wood admits the inadequacy of the original version as regards Hitchcock's career in Britain but, rather than repairing this omission, devotes considerable space to a strident and largely fatuous attack on David Lynch in general and Blue Velvet in particular (a film which, in some ways, curiously resembles Wood's beloved and to my mind vastly overrated Vertigo, though Blue Velvet, like DePalma's Obsession, is both gentler and more sympathetic). Wood also has the invidious habit of praising Hitchcock's films by denigrating the work of others - most notably (and idiotically, through a disgracefully shallow and superficial interpretation) Kubrick's Paths of Glory. On the whole, though, especially in the sections on such still-underrated works as Marnie and Rope (and perhaps even Psycho, whose reputation still seems more largely owing to sensationalism than to appreciation of its considerable sensitivity), and for as long as the author can stay down off his Marxist-Freudian hobbyhorses, this is an extremely valuable book.	2000-11-04
US	52784960	R32HCS7FNXZC8N	0486217930	440768393	The Best Tales of Hoffmann	Books	5	47	47	N	N	Fantasia with Automata and Vegetable King, etc.	Ernst Theodor Amadeus Hoffmann was born Ernst Theodor Wilhelm - he changed his name in honour of Mozart, and music was his first and possibly greatest love. He was a brilliant critic, a talented painter and caricaturist and, by all accounts, a very serviceable composer. All these elements - music, the pictorial sense, and the critic's sharp probing intelligence as displayed in the present review - feed into the stories, which perhaps is why they turned out to be his most lasting achievement. The ten in this collection are tales of the fantastic (Hoffmann is also credited by some with inventing the detective story with &quot;Madame de Scudery&quot;, not included here, which predates, and may have influenced, Edgar Allan Poe's pioneering efforts in the genre) and include the four which provided the basis for Offenbach's opera. The style, like Mozart's, is bright, energetic and often comic; the substance, as with caricature, mixes the bizarre with the mundane in a fashion quite unlike that of anyone else you've ever read, even among Hoffmann's batallions of readers, followers and imitators. The general effect is strikingly original, often disturbing, sometimes hilarious and, not infrequently, loony - not at all what one would expect from the last of the German Romantics. This volume also boasts several illustrations scrawled by the author, a helpful introduction by E F Bleiler, and Dover Books' usual robust construction and reasonable pricing. Like Lord Dunsany, Hoffmann has been prized more as an influence than a writer. His work has certainly had an incalculable influence on modern fantasy fiction, as well as the detective story, science fiction and the 19th-century &quot;novel of ideas&quot; (Dostoyevsky noted Hoffmann's psychological insight as an influence on his own). But his own best work falls into none of these categories, inventing them all in the service of the author's vision - the mark of a true original, and the best possible reason to read Hoffmann for himself.	2000-10-31
US	52784960	R16B5MUTAVI7MW	048622225X	498408826	Fantastic Fables (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	16	17	N	N	A little gem  right where it hurts	This book stands with the Devil's Dictionary and In the Midst of Life as one of Ambrose Bierce's finest achievements. Dozens and dozens of short - sometimes very short - fables, each one a small, sharp needle in the backside of respectable hypocrisy. Some are simply written-out jokes, like the one about the baby ostrich who swallowed a bottle-cap (&quot;Go quickly, my child, and swallow a corkscrew&quot;, says its mother); but the best of them to my mind are those featuring metaphors or abstract concepts as characters, like the one about the Moral Principle and the Temporary Expedient which met on a narrow bridge one day with predictably humiliating results. All the usual suspects are here - corrupt politicians, pious hypocrites, daffy judges and members of the Women's Press Association snarl, whimper, wheedle, preach, cheat and sneak alongside various Pairs of Hands making unauthorised incursions into Treauries, Streaks of Lightning failing to match the speed of Politicians Running for Office, and Blotted Escutcheons doing what Blotted Escutcheons do. Readers of the Devil's Dictionary, with its numerous improving anecdotes and rhymes, will know what to expect; anyone else is in for a treat, or possibly a coronary.	2000-10-30
US	52784960	RBX6YEXL6X32A	0156594439	249645798	Microworlds	Books	4	23	24	N	N	For SF writers who want to be real writers	One of the essays in this book got the author's honorary membership of the American SF Association revoked. Or rather, some of it did, in a way. &quot;Science Fiction - A Hopeless Case with Exceptions&quot; was published in the US in a mutilated &quot;translation&quot; under the tactful title &quot;A Scientist's Choice of the World's Worst Writing&quot;, and Lem was unceremoniously booted out of the organisation. The essay in question is in fact a harsh, but in its essentials accurate, dissection of the deplorable state of science fiction and science fiction criticism as compared with the rest of literature, and deserves serious attention. (The exception discussed, by the way, is the work of Philip K Dick, and a detailed review of Dick's Ubik, justifying its claim to be taken as serious fiction, also appears in Microworlds.) There is also a fine review of the Strugatsky brothers' extraordinary novella Roadside Picnic, which was the basis for Andrei Tarkovsky's equally extraordinary though somewhat different film Stalker; an interesting essay on Jorge Luis Borges, noting the unique qualities and the limitations apparent in his stories; and, perhaps most valuably, a couple of long essays on what science fiction could be if it could only kick its maleficient Star Wars-style good-guy/bad-guy simplemindedness. Lem is precise, logical, detailed, cantankerous and fascinating. The world's greatest writer of grown-up science fiction and fantasy is once again pointing the way for the rest of us.	2000-10-30
US	52784960	R3KA3QTZ4NNAV3	0870541617	87349209	The Ends of the Earth: 14 Stories	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Glorious, absolutely bloody glorious	Lucius Shepard is one of the most extraordinary writers living, inside the genre ghetto or out. All his books - Green Eyes, The Jaguar Hunter, The Golden, Barnacle Bill the Spacer, Life During Wartime and any others you happen to run across - are complex, literate, unputdownable and decidedly different from anything else you've ever come across. There's almost nothing in science fiction, less in horror fiction, and damn little in the mainstream to match his visionary scope, his brilliant atmospherics, and his lucid prose - lucid even in the most extreme states of mind and of spirit. The stories in The Ends of the Earth take place in his usual locations - evil little Central American wars as in &quot;Fire Zone Emerald&quot;, weird mutations of the United States as in &quot;Bound for Glory&quot; and &quot;Nomans Land&quot;, and upon (and inside) the great dragon Griaule in the stunning &quot;The Scalehunter's Beautiful Daughter&quot; - which is a heartbreakingly beautiful story. As are the rest, including among many others the terrifyingly optimistic &quot;Bound for Glory&quot;, which tells of monsters and why we might consider joining them; the existential nightmare &quot;Nomans Land&quot;, which treats of white spiders which dream us; and &quot;Aymara&quot;, which is that near impossibility, an original tale of time travel, with one of the most moving final sentences I've ever seen. You should go to the ends of the earth to buy this one. These fourteen stories alone are worth a cartload of almost anyone else.	2000-10-23
US	52784960	R3O7NDYWZGAPNP	0156796589	97540647	Scorpion God	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Ancient lights	Not quite three short novels, but three long stories - &quot;The Scorpion God&quot;, set in ancient Egypt; &quot;Clonk Clonk&quot;, set in Africa somewhere around the Dawn of Man; and &quot;Envoy Extraordinary&quot;, set during the late Roman Empire. All are distinguished by Golding's glorious if occasionally difficult style - it's sometimes hard to discern precisely what is going on, but that's because the author is trying to project you into the consciousness of people who are fundamentally different from you - pre-Christian, pre-industrial, pre-rational and in one case prehistoric. All three stories deal with the emergence of new forms of consciousness and hence, new forms of society - in the first, we see the vague beginnings of the Pharaohs; in the second, perhaps, the beginning of the sex war; in the third (in many ways the least difficult of the three) the brilliantly ironic fate of a few ideas which were centuries, not years, before their time. In &quot;Envoy Extraordinary&quot; only - the story set closest to modern times - the attempted change of consciousness does not succeed, is deliberately repressed - or rather, removed until later. There's a real sting in this tale, just as logical, just as inevitable and far less predictable than the ending of Golding's excellent Pincher Martin; the barbs in &quot;Clonk Clonk&quot; and &quot;The Scorpion God&quot; are a bit more subtle and may take longer to sink in, but you'll feel them all right.	2000-10-23
US	52784960	RVHD95NTIH83W	9057020025	747177509	Country House: Polish Theatre Archive (Polish Theatre Archives)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Jane Austen it isn't	Transposed to England, with a few specifically Polish references removed, this is one of Witkacy's easiest and most entertaining plays. Like most of his best work, it's a lunatic parody; unlike some, it parodies only one  genre, the &quot;country house&quot; drama of conflicts and secrets within  a well-to-do family. Thus much of the dialogue takes the form of debates,  with the mother's ghost, over tea and toast, over who her various lovers  were and what they and her husband may or may not have done to her. The  Geroulds' translation is as fluent as always, and there is a long and very  fine introduction. An extra and unexpected bonus in this edition is the  inclusion of several of the author's paintings and drawings, quite a few in  colour. Like the play (and like most of the rest of Witkacy's work), they  are grotesque, downright peculiar, and well worth a look.	2000-03-06
US	52784960	RTMT1307KMYEX	0810109808	542272724	The Witkiewicz Reader	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Insatiability inducing	This is a treasure house, containing one of Witkacy's best short plays (The New Deliverance), one of his best long ones (Janulka, Daughter of Fizdejko), plus extracts from the novels, from critical and theoretical  documents (notably on Pure Form, Bruno Schulz and the various drugs with  which the author experimented); letters to his friend Malinowski; and the  hilarious Rules of the S I Witkiewicz Portrait-Painting Firm, which  constitute an object lesson for any artist wracked by the horrors of  commercial compromise. The book is conveniently divided into segments  according to the progress of Witkacy's career, and each segment has a good  biographical chapter by the excellent Daniel Gerould, who seems to have  done more to get Witkiewicz known and appreciated in the English-speaking  world than most writers can manage to do for themselves. The Witkiewicz  reader is both an ideal introduction and a great addition to this  reviewer's still-too-small library of Witkacy-in-English. More, please...	1999-12-14
US	52784960	R3QCRZ9TE0T4OE	0486204154	356603221	Best Ghost Stories of J. S. LeFanu	Books	5	54	55	N	N	Best Ghost Stories of almost anyone	The best ghost stories of J S LeFanu are among the best ghost stories ever written. This is an extremely fine collection, including all the stories from LeFanu's greatest book, &quot;In a Glass Darkly&quot;, plus more than  a dozen others. There are regional tales of the author's native Ireland;  traditional tales of supernatural revenge; and, as the title says, much if  not all of LeFanu's best work, which prefigures the best modern horror in  its psychological sophistication and absolute lack of the sentiment and  moralising common to many Victorian ghost story writers (as well as to far  too many of the moderns). Is &quot;Green Tea&quot;, for instance, the story  of a supernatural visitation or merely, as the narrator would have us  believe, of &quot;the process of a poison&quot;? Is Captain Barton, in  &quot;The Familiar&quot;, haunted by guilt alone or by something more? The  collection also includes LeFanu's most famous story, the subtle vampire  novella &quot;Carmilla&quot;; and the horrifying, tragic, repulsive and  wholly inexplicable masterpiece, &quot;Schalken the Painter&quot;. Grab it;  read it; lie awake at night.	1999-12-06
US	52784960	R3HWHJEZZD1VUM	0486299422	40358608	The Complete John Silence Stories (Dover Horror Classics)	Books	2	17	24	N	N	If only John Silence lived up to his name...	The John Silence stories are not among Blackwood's more inspired creations. Even the best of them tend to conclude with a pompous &quot;explanation&quot; of the supernatural events, as Blackwood attempts  to propagandise for his personal brand of mysticism. This is all very well,  but if you don't happen to share Blackwood's beliefs it's no more than an  irritation, and even if you do it might well bring you down to earth with a  bump after some of his fine atmospheric writing in the better tales. It's a  pity that S T Joshi, who made much the same observations in his excellent  &quot;The Weird Tale&quot;, couldn't have persuaded Dover to bring out,  instead, Blackwood's truly astounding collection, &quot;Incredible  Adventures&quot;, from which Silence's tiresome explicitness is almost  entirely absent.	1999-12-06
US	52784960	RSTJ5HP8MBO27	0486207676	303730164	Ghost and Horror Stories of Ambrose Bierce	Books	4	48	50	N	N	Careful - it bites	Bierce ranks with Poe and Lovecraft as one of the greatest American writers of horror stories. This collection presents a selection of his supernatural tales, leaving out the Civil War stories for which he is  perhaps better known. The first story, &quot;The Death of Halpin  Frayser&quot;, is a genuine nightmare, and well worth the price of the  volume on its own. But the book also includes Bierce's genre-bending  experiments with science fiction, &quot;Moxon's Master&quot; and &quot;The  Damned Thing&quot;; the cynical Rashomon precursor &quot;The Moonlit  Road&quot;; the apocalyptic &quot;An Inhabitant of Carcosa&quot; and  &quot;The Eyes of the Panther&quot;, a lycanthrope story (maybe) which  grows more unsettling the more you think about it, as well as a number of  minor works which may be hard to find elsewhere. The only real flaw is E F  Bleiler's sanctimonious introduction, which seems to attempt to escape the  satiric snap of Bierce's work by repeating unpleasant (and largely  unreliable) opinions of the writer. Watch out for this book - even the  cover is scary.	1999-12-06
