US	52783335	R1A8T9QCA5E60X	1583225366	967029653	Media Control, Second Edition: The Spectacular Achievements of Propaganda (Open Media Series)	Books	5	27	38	N	Y	The Media - Selected Lies For the Public	Speaking for myself, I get sick when I hear \\"CNN, The Most Trusted News,\\" and watch Fox and every other mind-melted American media. I have to admit, I also get nauseated (literally) in just the sight of G.W. Bush or any of his administration attempting to tell the \\"truth.\\" And what's even more disturbing are the supporter's; Blind and angry fighters with bias moral slants and empty slogans. On the other hand, PBS and Comedy Central are refreshing alternative exceptions to all of these deceptions. <br /> <br />Chomsky relates two types of democracy - one where the majority of people are politically active participants, heard, listened and considered. The other, which is what we have, is a vanguard or specialized class of representatives that do the voicing for everyone - the only participation of the public during their elections. And this is what has been both in Lenin's and U.S. liberal's idea; that of a specialized vanguard political and business class endorsed to protect the bewildered public who simply can't think for themselves. In this, modern U.S. propaganda had its beginning with Woodrow Wilson's Creel Commission and later Red Scare. <br /> <br /> <br />While former tactics used have been the Creel Commission and the Red Scare, attacks are still used unions and all political organizations with the separating and isolating of people; distracting them with consumerism, TV sitcoms and the Superbowl - to name only a few. Also the use of catchy and empty phrases as \\"Do you support the,\\" and \\"Are you for or against.\\" This is used along with many superficial forms of entertainment, gossip columns, sporting events and many other diversions. The bottom line is a One party system, a One business system, with two divisions of the same party - the Democrats and Republicans. <br /> <br />While these distractions and attacks on unions and political organizations have been very successful, they have not broken up the Churches, which act as the few places left for organization and political speeches against propaganda. An example is the recognition that war is wrong, while the government calls those against the Vietnam War part of a Vietnam syndrome, weak and sickly persons. <br /> <br />You name it - the Middle East, Central America, National terrorism - it's all been lied upon by our media and governmental official history, including the number killed in Vietnam, declaring less than a million Vietnamese, while other sources reveal millions. What do we think when other countries and groups lie about the amount of people murdered in the Holocaust? <br /> <br />It was only until the 1960's that the culture awakened unlike before. Even in highly prejudice and opinionated parts of the country, open talks can now be given. Where formerly there was both the lack of understanding and opposition, now there is still opposition but with much more understanding and at least some type of semi-organizational national movements despite all the media propaganda. <br /> <br />In our recent times with unemployment raised, lower wages, loss of health care affordability, dwindling social security, and much more poverty than before, the sitcoms, consumerism and the Superbowl are not enough. The tactics needed are to continually create new enemies to fight, new terror to control and general fear within the public; as in Saddam Hussein, Bin Laden, Castro, Quadhafi, drug traffickers, Arabs - all with our magnificent military force that wipes out these supposed tyrannies - in reality they are weak third world armies - all acting as distractions and diversions from the real truth; U.S. imperialism and abuse of labor and natural resources by the few powerful and wealthy. Cuba is likely to be next. In an effort to gain control over labor and natural resources and prevent economic independence, the strategy is to first provoke them. And then when they act under defense, they are set-up under the lie of offence as reported by the media, demanding that we defendand brilliantly crush them under patriotic morals and values. \\"God Bless America.\\" Now we can all relax with a sigh of relief now that this terrible dictatorial tyranny has been eliminated and decent human rights and values have been restored. <br /> <br />9. While the media widely publicized the jail and torture of the former Cuban prisoner, Armando Valladares, and the U.S. both commending him for his courage and then appointing him as a representative of the UN human rights commission, a much more detailed, mountainous evidence of signed affidavits of human rights commission members in El Salvador imprisoned and tortured by the U.S., and acquired by Hebert Anaya were entirely ignored by the media. Only one small blurb mentioned. And when finally released from prison, he was quietly assassinated by U.S. backed security forces.  <br /> <br />People who were polled responded against countries that occupy others illegally and perform human rights abuses. And yet all over the globe, both the U.S. and U.S. backed forces do just that, an example being the U.S. backed invasion, torture and killings of Indonesia to those in East Timor, killing over 200,000, while the media remains silent. And while Israel occupies Lebanon illegally against UN resolution 425, with U.S. backing, killing over 20,000 in Beirut, hospitals and vital centers, there is no media coverage. <br /> <br />Over the years, the media refused to report to the public the critical voices of the Iraqi democrats around the world since they condemned the U.S. friendly relations with Saddam Hussein. Only after Saddam became the enemy were their voices given any coverage. But no sooner did they voice their antiwar sentiments and opinion against imperialistic maneuvers; they were again completely ignored by the media. You can only read about them in some of the German and British press. What does this say of our democracy? <br /> <br />Chomsky gives the reasons U.S. gave for the Gulf War; Aggressors can not be rewarded and must be reversed by violence. And yet the U.S. does this all the time and no one questions their aggressions, as in their 20 years of quiet diplomacy (no attack) of South Africa's killings, 1.5 million in just the Bush-Reagan years. Again no media coverage, a hallmark sign of a totalitarian and bias culture. <br /> <br />While two-thirds of Americans polled favored peace negotiations with Iraq, the media continued to drill the government's view of no diplomacy. Meanwhile Iraq had offered total withdrawal, and again no coverage. Any who thought of negotiations were made to feel like oddballs since the media shows that no one thinks this way. And no Democrat dared speak up either. <br /> <br />While the U.S. blocks sanctions against Israel for her defying the UN in illegally occupying Lebanon since 1978, it hypocritically employs sanctions against Cuba and Iraq. And these have worked, weakening Iraq tremendously. Negotiations are offered by Iraq, but Bush refuses for the same economic exploitative reasons in a small country torn by a war with Iran. And now suddenly it is a dangerous power that threatens the entire world with lies about stockpiles of chemical weapons and WMD. The same exact tactics were used only a year earlier on Nicaragua's Manual Noriega, deceptively elevated to a large and dangerous drug trafficking threat to the world. But he had to be smashed, killing hundreds, maybe thousands of people, and restoring a vicious police state. History repeats itself.  <br /> <br />It's all about whether we want a pseudo democracy of representatives and servitude or a free democracy of active citizen participation. These are our choices.	2005-10-11
US	52783335	R3KTV4T5GBTG0Y	1570970157	410668412	The Method of the Siddhas: Talks on the Spiritual Technique of the Saviors of Mankind	Books	2	13	16	N	Y	Only In Satsang With "Me" - All Other Paradigms Both Intolerable and Narcissistic	The book gets a good review for many of it's individual ideas and its style of writing but gets a negative review for it's limited, absolute and controlling solution. What it accuses as narcissistic to those that rebel can be the very lens to see those that obey. And so the Eastern thoughts of inward relative diversity are framed under fundamental unity which does not tolerate autonomy.    According to Adi Da, anyone who is not in satsang with him is practicing Narcissism. That is the higher paradigm here. Adi Da is a divine incarnation of the god Da and only where all conceptual inquires, all seeking, all efforts at spiritual development are meaningless unless they are in satsang with \\"me\\" and thus the only and absolute alternative is by living within the communal relationship with Adi Da and his devotees. And so this really is a Cult with the control that does not tolerate the two cardinal rules, to first, think for oneself and second, to question authority. And almost all cults have good points to offer within their paradigms.    And the paradox here is that the trees inside this controlling and limited forest bring out some profound points. Some of these include the idea of community relationship with Adi Da in simply a moving, playful, spontaneous relationship in the present moment as opposed to simply intellectual analysis of spiritual growth and that the idea of seeking is part of the problem itself. Here it is letting go of the seeking, which is based on suffering from a moving thought created mind, into now a nonconceptual movement within ordinary life, not some spectacular satori or nirvana but the ordinary life here and now perceived in its now enlightened awareness and paradoxically in this world of the mundane. Also the idea that we are sleeping in a dream and waking up is not seeking for solutions, as solutions are merely those inside the dream, where as to wake up is simply an awareness, again, only in satsang with \\"me.\\"     And while there are theseand many other rather insightful and profound points, they are to the objective reader, contaminated with the control of satsang with what appears to be only a man, a man who both claims to be a god-man and is worshipped as one by many followers who have separated themselves from those not part of the satsang community with Adi Da. Now I am only an ignorant human and Adi Da may just be the incarnate of a divinity, so one can not judge or know any more as an ignorant human being reading this book, for it does not put one in Satsang with Adi Da, as this comes only with personal and direct communication.     In this paradigm there is negative views on solitude and nature mysticism, labeling all as narcissism, while Adi Da is claiming both divinity and absolute devotion for anyone to obtain the \\"truth,\\" only in satsang with \\"me.\\" And so, to look at the trees, there are many moist and ripe, insightful in meanings, and then there is the forest, the forest which unites without individuality to a controlled environment, a life that lacks autonomy and condemns unity from diversity.	2005-10-10
US	52783335	R3UPWOAGY85AB5	1931859094	791443482	The Case for Socialism	Books	5	18	34	N	Y	A Valid Case In Significant Need	Capitalism in the U.S. consists of large Corps which outsource, leaving unemployed and struggling, while the owners and bankers become wealthier riding the stock market. And in foreign policy, exploiting the weaker nations for cheap labor and ownership of natural resources.<br /><br />Republican Bush II cut off almost 1 million families from unemployment insurance benefits, leaving 8 million in 2003 both unemployed and in debt, unable to find jobs, without health and child care. 43.6 billion without health care. In 2002, 34.6 million, 1 in 6, were earning below the poverty level with denial of welfare from bureaucracy, while Rep Bush spends over 30 million in program for \\"healthier marriage education.\\" Dem Clinton abolished the federal main welfare program to help the poor, removing 54 billion in over 6 years for those who earn less than 7 dollars an hour. Under Clinton there was a back lash against gays in the military and affirmative action, regression of gay sexual relations as a crime and the 2 millionth prisoner incarceration of U.S. citizens, mostly minorities.<br /><br />In the U.S., the small super rich own 1 percent earned what 40 percent earn annually and exploitation in foreign policy, Bush's Iraq never turned back into \\"normal,\\" with continual death, poverty and destruction, while the years of Clinton's sanctions and bombings have killed an untold number of innocent men, women and children, making not much of a difference between Democrats and Republicans, as the U.S. has had a hand in almost every foreign war and civil war, employing both military and economic imperialism, a system of exploitation, as in McDonalds and now Wall Mart, the IMF, WTO, controlling loans and aid, outsourcing cheap labor, misery and suffering, all for the profit of the wealthy and privileged few.<br /><br />And so the Socialistic solution is that for free universal education and health care, the end of the ownership of companies by the minority wealthy class to that of equalitarian of democratic (not limited representative) which are not run by elaborate bureaucracies and the means for profit driven motives. The end of over production, layoffs and wasteful spending to increase profit for the owners denying the underpaid proletariat, government run from the bottom-up. Each ordinary person having a democratic voice and partially held responsibility. \\"To each according to their ability, to each according to their need.\\" The critics who claim no incentive, all refusing to work or take on the menial easy to do jobs, fail to recognize the human drive in passion to work in a field that truly interests them, while equalitarian economically, awarded with various honors and prestige.<br /><br />How can we create socialism within this capitalistic system, if our so-called democracy is based on electoral votes designed to keep third  and leftist (all other) political parties out of the race? This along with the voting fraud of the 2000 presidential election. The entire process of both the Democrats and the Republicans are run by wealthy and corporate campaign donations buying tax breaks and deregulation's - \\"corporate welfare.\\"  This is because it costs millions of dollars to run for the Senate, the House and the presidency - Only 5% donations are from the unions, while 75% are from the wealthy and large corporation. So the politician, both Dems and Reps, needing votes, must then commit fraud and lie to the people as their representative, while catering to the wealthy. This is capitalism.<br /><br />Both parties in capitalism are corrupt in favor of the rich, as its not just the fanatic Right Wing Bush, as Clinton the Democrat broke a string of promises failing to: end gay discrimination in the military, to grant asylum to Haitians in Guantanamo Bay, to stop scabs crossing strikers picket lines and to bring health care reform. Instead he expanding the death penalty, prisons and police power and eliminate most of the welfare for the poor. With all this, the labor parties supported him because he was a Democrat - an illusion that Dems are for the people which came from Roosevelt's New Deal, which real reason was to prevent a possible socialistic revolution, a concession from people's pressure and still keep the wealthy protected capitalism. The same can be said in Kennedy's and Johnson's Civil Rights amendments; only from the pressure of the working person's protests. To vote Dem or the lesser evil principle is not a real choice! Both parties have shifted to Right. And the judicial system is not an election from the people or popular vote. Reforms are not from the White House but those voices in the streets, the factories and the work places. Capitalism cannot be reformed, it is always designed to protect the rich and ruling class. No president has the power to go against the demands of the large Corps, who threaten to take their money out of the U.S., removing their obligation to pay taxes. And when foreign governments turn socialistic and equalitarian, the mighty U.S. comes in and destroys them either, set up coos and doctoral regimes to protect U.S. wealthy and corporate economic interests, all under the false disguise of democracy. And while reforms are beneficial and are supported by socialists, they recognize it is only by revolution, by force, that this injustice of wealth, poverty, inequality, imperialism, consumerism, lack of health care, aid and homelessness can this be changed.ith all this, the labor parties supported him because he was a Democrat - an illusion that Dems are for the people which came from Roosevelt's New Deal, which real reason was to prevent a possible socialistic revolution, a concession from people's pressure and still keep the wealthy protected capitalism. The same can be said in Kennedy's and Johnson's Civil Rights amendments; only from the pressure of the working person's protests. To vote Dem or the lesser evil principle is not a real choice! Both parties have shifted to Right. And the judicial system is not an election from the people or popular vote. Reforms are not from the White House but those voices in the streets, the factories and the work places. Capitalism cannot be reformed, it is always designed to protect the rich and ruling class. No president has the power to go against the demands of the large Corps, who threaten to take their money out of the U.S., removing their obligation to pay taxes. And when foreign governments turn socialistic and equalitarian, the mighty U.S. comes in and destroys them either, set up coos and doctoral regimes to protect U.S. wealthy and corporate economic interests, all under the false disguise of democracy. And while reforms are beneficial and are supported by socialists, they recognize it is only by revolution, by force, that this injustice of wealth, poverty, inequality, imperialism, consumerism, lack of health care, aid and homelessness can this be changed.	2005-10-10
US	52783335	R2DH8DLCZ67RA	0060528370	350275263	A People's History of the United States: 1492-Present (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	7	17	N	N	Wealthy Repression & The Fight of the Masses	The best U.S. history book I ever read. Truly an eye opener - wonderful. It's a history seen from the working class, the average you and me and not from the official government and journalistic interpretation. So this is also a bias book, as Zinn states on page 618, this time from the average working man, and that's O.K., there are far more official versions out there and this can balance it out.     The book starts from the Indians and Columbus, to the slaves and the colonies and the eventual American Revolution. What it really starts out as the idea of socialism. That's the living of the Indians and indigenous peoples. Sure they had problems and fighting, but they have a much more peaceful existence with one another and the planet earth then the Western civilization of divide, conquer and own. Capitalism, competition, race division, cultural intolerance, quest for gain is what the U.S. history and its Western mentality enforced to North America. And in this they crushed the socialism of the Indian peoples.     Now in this history of the U.S. there were fighters - the people - for socialistic equalitarian justice. This is the people's history of the U.S. The Indians fought for their land, the blacks for freedom, the employed for fair wages and working and living conditions. This was the fight and the very structure of the government from the signing of the Declaration of Independence was a fight from British exploitation, while the fighting of the soldiers, the slaves, and the white servants was the fight from the U.S. wealthy exploitation. It seems the major dichotomy in U.S. history is the wealthy and powerful verses the poor. The wealthy always fight, suppress, and repress to control their power and riches, while the poor must fight for equality. And that is the history.     What comes shining through is the fact that every equalitarian measure, every gain in justice and fair rights between the poor, the blacks, the Indians, women, child labor, fair rents, fairwages, farmers rights, gay rights, speech freedoms, anti-war protests and so forth were only gained through revolutionary fights - that is the only way. Not necessarily violent, but a fight never the less. The history of repression from the wealthy must be fought by the people's to gain equality and justice. There is no other way. Complacency is not the history here.     I found so fascinating the thread that ran entirely through out the history as in the labor unions to the socialist party. From the wealthy North and South in forming the Constitution, the Bill of Rights as an after concession; Lincoln's emancipation aimed at restoring the Union and not some profound insight of racial equality. Also great points; FDR's forced concessions of the New Deal, not out of love for the poor man, but forced to prevent the communist and socialism that was spreading like wild fire through out the U.S. And the wealthy used all types of control tactics which can be seen over and over again. And then came McCarthyism, the new buzz word, \\"communism,\\" \\"I have a list here of 250 names.\\" I think this history book is a great starter point to fully study the pro and cons of FDR's New Deal and a study on socialism, the Russian revolution, Cuba and capitalism and freedom.     What I think Howard Zinn fails to mention in his book were the psychedelic movements which caused major socialistic or liberal changes in both the U.S. and the world, as in the Ken Kasey and the Merry Pranskters, Timothy Leary, Ram Dass and the Harvard University and Millbrook Estate LSD movements and the political movements of Abbie Hoffman, Jerry Rubin, Dave Dillenger, the Chicago Eight, Bobby Seal and the Black Panthers, the Hippies, Diggers, Yippies, Pacifists, Provocateurs, Alternative Press, Beat poets, the Weather Underground and even the FBI and the CIA who were making and molding the scene and LSD was the sacred ritual.     These experiences, I think are highly significant, causing communities of hippies toseparate from capitalism and form their own communal socialistic societies based on trades and services. Under this influence the \\"doors of mental perception\\" (Huxley) were opened; not just in insight but in actions and protests taken by the favorable population of the baby boomers youth generation. This brought forth equalitarian socialism in both cultural and political levels along with revelutionary actions. This new left was now appalling to the old left, the radicals verses the status quo. And if you read the effects of psychedelics from Huxley, Leary, Stan Grof, Wasson and others, there are definite benefits which promote social justice beyond the propaganda hype of evil.    This book is 600 pages of insightful history. Highly recommended.	2005-10-04
US	52783335	R74LCLGWIBRYP	0451526341	380925201	Animal farm: A Fairy Story	Books	5	1	3	N	N	"Four Legs Terrorists, Two Legs Democracy!!"	More than the Russian revolution, just look at the mighty U.S. Wonderful story that parallels political history and today's current world. And for this, the forward calls Orwell a prophet. While that may be too euphorically idealistic and naively entrusting, it rings of truth nevertheless, as this short story, along with Orwell's other novel, \\"1984,\\" are pessimistic speculations that have been materializing in world political reality more than most others, and doing so in a remarkably accurate way.<br /><br />The idea in this story of farm animals is to overcome their tyranny and replace it with equalitarian socialism, which sadly ends in the very same tyranny. What starts out good turns as the aggressors see the weak spots and subsequently use force to gain control bringing about the economic class divisions, privileges of the wealthy, taxations of the poor, economic tyranny and the subsequent methods employed; the use of force and the greatest being fear and of course, blind stupid patriotism, \\"Four legs good, two legs bad!\\" Fear brings on patriotism, unity and political dominance of the forceful leaders. To unite against the common enemy under fear will induce the subjects to willingly, even emotionally under patriotic fervor, give up all rights of autonomy and free thinking. In the end, the loyal patriot citizen, Boxer the horse, is understood as a mere commodity, which in reality he always was. As in our wars, \\"why do they always send the poor?\\"<br /><br />Napoleon (Stalin) is our fearless leader - he will save us from the terrorists, while poor pig Snowball (Trotsky)is the \\"enemy\\" \\"terrorist\\" and boxer is the proletariat, the working man, while the sheep are the mindless flag waving patriots - \\"God Bless America,\\" the war supporters (they think their spreading democracy) and the Democratic and Republican convention supporters.<br /><br />And so, here is the story of a farm where the animals revolt against the human despotism to create a socialistic equalitarian society, having a few pigs taking the intellectual lead. In a short time, this leads us to our now emperor pig, Napoleon, \\"who is always right,\\" while poor pig Snowball, blackballed, long gone, and yet still always the common enemy who must always be fought, thus spreading to the citizens themselves under the suspicion as possible spies, with forced confessions and punishments. Even in such mild forms, this tactic works well in the idea to spread suspicion among the masses. And you can see this in today's electronic signs along the New Jersey and New York highways reading \\"Report Suspicious Activity - Call 1-800-xxx-xxxx.\\" I wonder if Bin Laden has spies driving down the highway? Probably not, but it's a great excuse to call the authorities on the guy pissing you off in the fast lane. Now without probable cause (only a friendly phone call) can maybe find some marijuana in his car or a suspended license.<br /><br />Also highly interesting, is the way the leaders would change stories and convince the other animals of their validity. It's amazing to see the parallels in the American media, especially the gung-ho conservative talk show hosts, who portray the patriotic historical slant on history and current events in such bias framework. As the 7 commandments of the animal farm are slyly changed, so the Constitution of the U.S. with amendments which erode such and also render the Bill of Rights as near obsolete.<br /><br />While this is not always the case, it portrays the far greater percentage. Yet while there are still autonomous individuals, there is always hope. Even Rome fell. And while each replaces each other with other forms of liberties turned tyrannies, the pessimism of Orwell's prophetic future always has room (no matter how small) of the hope of equalitarian society of liberty and justice for all. That is, before nuclear proliferation occurs from the failure of cowboy unilateralism to publicly address the grievances of the so called \\"terrorists.\\"pigs taking the intellectual lead. In a short time, this leads us to our now emperor pig, Napoleon, \\"who is always right,\\" while poor pig Snowball, blackballed, long gone, and yet still always the common enemy who must always be fought, thus spreading to the citizens themselves under the suspicion as possible spies, with forced confessions and punishments. Even in such mild forms, this tactic works well in the idea to spread suspicion among the masses. And you can see this in today's electronic signs along the New Jersey and New York highways reading \\"Report Suspicious Activity - Call 1-800-xxx-xxxx.\\" I wonder if Bin Laden has spies driving down the highway? Probably not, but it's a great excuse to call the authorities on the guy pissing you off in the fast lane. Now without probable cause (only a friendly phone call) can maybe find some marijuana in his car or a suspended license.    Also highly interesting, is the way the leaders would change stories and convince the other animals of their validity. It's amazing to see the parallels in the American media, especially the gung-ho conservative talk show hosts, who portray the patriotic historical slant on history and current events in such bias framework. As the 7 commandments of the animal farm are slyly changed, so the Constitution of the U.S. with amendments which erode such and also render the Bill of Rights as near obsolete.     While this is not always the case, it portrays the far greater percentage. Yet while there are still autonomous individuals, there is always hope. Even Rome fell. And while each replaces each other with other forms of liberties turned tyrannies, the pessimism of Orwell's prophetic future always has room (no matter how small) of the hope of equalitarian society of liberty and justice for all. That is, before nuclear proliferation occurs from the failure of cowboy unilateralism to publicly address the grievances of the so called \\"terrorists.\\"	2005-09-14
US	52783335	R15NH9O5MVF0C9	0871238160	436321394	The Watchtower Files: Dialogue With a Jehovah's Witness	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Proof For The Ignorant - The Contaminated WTBTS Source	Excellent Book! One of the only ways to show \\"proof\\" of contradictions to those lost in a \\"one and only\\" paradigm (the Jehovah Witnesses and Watchtower Bible and Tract Society) in thier dualistic world is to show it from the \\"source,\\" coming from those accepted and entrusted with leadership, in this case, divine authority, the biblically appointed \\"slave class.\\" So the book is entirely made up of copies of pages of Watchtowers. Can't get better \\"proof\\" than that.	2005-09-11
US	52783335	R1SOKK0K20E6GF	0805074007	932608591	Hegemony or Survival: America's Quest for Global Dominance (The American Empire Project)	Books	5	24	35	N	Y	Removing the Norman Rockwell Lenses	This is a significant book. One that should replace the media and be used as a permanent historical reference work. The masks applied to the media, the masses, those diverted into activities that consume smaller issues and cloud judgment on objectivity are very much in affect. This book \\"needs\\" to be out there more than reading some opinionated account. Only in years of time, when the dust settles and emotional detachment of the nationalist and patriot is attained, only then can this be seen as objective history by the majority. This book is on the top of my list of high significance.    Some of the thoughts contained: Two superpowers: the U.S. government and masses of public opinion. Two enemies: the domestic and the foreign. The domestic masses and the Wilsonian ideal that the \\"good\\" only exists in the hands of few responsible decision makers who know what's best for everyone else and the need to protect them; to subdue public opinion, the \\"wild beast,\\" with propaganda and information control. And today with the new laws on terrorism, censorship without warrants, wiretapping and donating to the wrong Muslim or other organization can get you arrested and deported. And in the foreign policy, the transforming global order in domination as seen in from the recent past in Nicaragua, El Salvador and Central America with U.S. backed dictatorships of terror, in power for their support of U.S. economic interests, who employ the most deadly murderous and genocidal regimes. A great comparison is given from John Stuart Mill's British imperialism against India. and in approval of France's imperialism against Algeria.    Critics result to name calling in unfairly labeling all those who love America but do not approve of its imperialistic actions as \\"Anti-American,\\" who \\"hate America, a common tactic used in the past by fascist and Soviet authoritarianism. And the rhetoric used over and over again by aggressors such as Hitler in \\"preserving the peace of the German and Czechoslovakian people,\\" esteeming his hostile take over. Apparently all political actions are accompanied by a noble intent.    A new form of U.S. imperial strategy that overrides all U.N. Security counsel, that is now preemptive, evidence or not, Iraq the new Petri dish of experiment and NATO the new instrument of power which acts on its own discords. While the WTO and IMF enforce the neoliberalization of privatizing the third world into U.S. raw materials, populations thrown into the poverty of production commodities for the developed countries luxuries, NATO is enforcing U.S. interests through one party power, contradictorily allowing some countries to violate treaties, laws and own nuclear weapons and others attacked for the same, as can be seen in the repeated bombing of Serbia and its civilian targets. The rule of law rests in the U.S. alone, unilaterally, WMD or not, or what ever reason sees fit at the time of questioning. Punishments and rewards, intimidative domination of leverage are applied to other countries on votes in the U.N. security counsel, and even then, action will take place regardless. A new domestic policy of \\"terrorist activities\\" applied to citizens who now are legally refused the right of a lawyer and civil liberties has gone into affect.    Today, U.S. citizens are not as submissive as they were when Kennedy attacked Viet Nam as can be seen by protests and around the world. What worries people globally is not the threat of Saddam Hussein, Iraq or North Korea, but that of U.S. hegemony and world domination through force.     U.S. view of underdeveloped countries as \\"children\\" that must be disciplined and shown who is in charge: Haiti, Cuba and Venezuela, Mexico and Iran dared to attempt to control its own sources. An excellent objective view of the declassified documents and close call in the Cuban missile crises.    The real threat of the cold war was not Soviet aggression but the idea that resistance to U.S. economic interests would spread as thepost WWII peace was in reality from the threat of U.S. might.    Thoughts on NATO and Iraq, on Turkey and U.S. support of its killings of Kurds. Not until their resistance in the Iraq war did it come out in the papers - U.S. backing is much more than simply \\"tolerance,\\" as the media claims. Also the NATO bombings with lack of evidence of the Serb genocides and without UN Security Counsel permissions. The U.S. Drug policy equals U.S. economic interests. And suppression in Columbia; crimes are privatized in accord with neoliberal practice with private militias and private companies hired for fumigation which eradicate personal responsibilities. We can learn by history of the 19th century colonialism as insight in this.    More thoughts are: the similar cowboy aggressive attributes between JFK and GW Bush II; Guatemala democratic peoples government destroyed by U.S., Castro has the majority of support, but U.S. knows what's best for the Cuban people; Kennedy's Operation Mongoose against Cuba is more with severe deception with false accusations and set ups against Cuba; haphazard raids against Cuba killing innocent civilians including an airliner of 73 passengers; Jeb Bush pardons the terrorists, while Bush I hardened the embargo, refusing hurricane aid, food and medicine; U.S. murder of Latin American Priests and a housemaid and her daughter who dared speak out for self rule and economic interests; U.S. support for Algerian torture; bombing Libya without evidence of so called drugs while pushing tobacco on others; undoing the \\"new deal\\" and privatization for the rich only; the answer to domestic unpopularity - raise up nationalism with the enemy to destroy and U.S. has made it clear - no UN security counsel needed, they, and the rest of the world, must \\"catch up\\" - Collin Powell; Washington's refusal to attend UN discussions on post war reconstruction; the Panama and Afghanistan invasions; the sanctions has already destroyed Iraq before the war; how the world court andthe UN Security Counsel condemned the U.S. killings in Nicaragua - only the U.S. and Israel vetoed. If a country harbors so called terrorists than they are the same according to Bush and the U.S. harbors the same. Also the human rights abuses of Israel/    And the claim of Washington and the media that \\"Old Europe\\" is paranoid anti-American and undemocratic really means: \\"Strong governments disregard their populations and \\"accept the role,\\" assigned to them by the global ruler (U.S.); weak governments succumb to the will of 95 percent of their population.\\" P. 136    Much more book for this review. Highly recommend this book.And so will the other superpower, the masses of the public, succeed despite it all?	2005-09-09
US	52783335	REIHSWKT1LQ27	1570625549	698124750	Integral Psychology: Consciousness, Spirit, Psychology, Therapy	Books	5	17	22	N	Y	Ultimate Paradigm - Four Quads, Multiple Streams & Waves	This book is one of my favorite books. I say that because it represents a higher paradigm, actually the ultimate paradigm, which means it's continually subject to even higher paradigms. Behind all teachings, concepts, ideology, religion and science is psychology. Even though there are methods of psychology restricted to particular schools of thoughts, psychology itself exists behind that. And integral psychology is the higher of paradigms. Another wards, every book read, every concept, teaching, every system, no matter how accurate, significant, reliable, and proven empirically and so forth, when taken alone as the \\"one truth,\\" amounts to reductionism. In most cases, empirical observation is known as flatland, as the observable facts are without the \\"forgotten truth\\" (Huston) and subjective reality which cannot be \\"proven\\" in objective terms.<br /><br />Wilber is very detailed and the pages of footnotes confirms this, each point painstakingly laid out, many times repeatedly with emphasis on another particular angle. I've read the \\"Atman Project,\\" \\"Theory of Everything,\\" \\"Eye of The Spirit,\\" and it's recommended to also read, \\"Sex Ecology and Spirituality\\" (you should see all the footnotes in that book!), \\"Spectrums of Consciousness,\\" .....Eden,\\" \\"History of Everything,\\" \\"A Sociable God,\\" \\"Sense and Soul,\\" there's some more too, every book is connected to the Integral psychology. This book is really an eye opener and I highly recommend it. When to comes to the transformation and development of consciousness, Wilber's is an expert on the subject, devouring all other authors on this subject, either complimenting or criticizing it in one of his publications. I used to think I perceive all of my paradigms from a larger liberal paradigm and yet now I question such simplicity. And yet can I call this book that? After all, it will not take in one model as \\"all,\\" but transcend it into another.<br /><br />Pardon this over simplification, especially when it comes to Wilber - It's the four quadrants that I think can be weighed against every teaching. For instance I love Fijof Capra's \\"Tao of Physics,\\" and it is an awesome analysis of the web of relational links found in physics and the Eastern counterparts. And yet, the book itself is monological, another wards it's an important work but only from the Upper Right Quadrant or objective lens. And so this needs to be taken in account with the other quadrants, the individual subjective, the collective subjective molds of thoughts we think through and the collective objective systems we perceive reality through as well. So every book, whether it's Freud's awesome repression psychoanalysis, which is limited to the Upper Left Quad or individual subjective, or Jung's archetypes which is limited to mostly the Lower Left Quad or collective subjective, or Marx's manifesto, which is limited to the Lower Right Quad or collective objective social system, or David Bohm's Implicate Order, which is limited to the Upper Right , which is the Individual Objective, all these are greatly significant, yet taken alone as dominant act in reductionism. His four quadrant approach is just fantastic in relations to evaluating fairly what ever it is you are reading. I was reading the Tao of Physics and it relates so well the outline of the web of relational links in quantum and eastern thoughts and yet it only falls within the upper right quadrants. I was reading Marx - lower right, Freud - upper left and so on. No matter how wonderful the theory in psychology, in political science, in neurology or biology, in cultural linguistics - they all fall within one or maybe two of the quadrants, all pieces, but never the whole and that is the point here. None can claim absolute, as this is reductionism, while each part is a whole makes up a larger whole/part which is part of a whole/part and so forth.<br /><br />Now there are streams and levels within each quadrant and Wilber can get exhaustive here if he wants to - most of the footnotes are as significant as the chapter they are noted in and he loves going on footnote tangents, worthy of every morsel.<br /><br />I'm impressed in the way Wilber defines much of the grown of consciousness in Sheldrake's theory of morphic fields or collective forces, waves and streams and various levels, which can be advanced more rapidly through altered states and yet cannot be omitted or overridden but most be personally developed and experienced in all.<br /><br />The chapters on premoderism to modernism, but of more significance to myself, the chapter on modernism to postmodernism was the best I've had explained. using the deconstructuralism and both the validity and reductionist aspects - truly enlightening! Wilber is a special writer and personally, I think will go down in history as significant and prolific<br /><br />There are many facets to this book. One is the pre-trans fallacy, where Wilber argues against his former teaching of romanticism of returning to the pre-ego self, as here he now teaches that the later development, as in the subtle and casual realms of consciousness are areas that include and transcend the ego, a whole/part within a larger whole, as opposed to the trashing of the ego and returning to the pre-ego. It is here that Jung's archetypes represent the subtle and if a collective consciousness relating to before the ego then a pre and not a trans development.<br /><br />Also argued are Stan Grof's adaptation of Rankian analysis incorporated into his analysis of  the LSD experience in the return to the pre-ego and what's more argued is the ideas of returning to the birth process psychologically or having to be re-born as in a return. Instead it is a return only to re-experience in the sense of re-living or returning only to loosen the particular repression and to then move back forward to both include and transcend the ego development. You must first fully develop the ego to the strongest or highest extent before transcending it to the higher development.<br /><br />I just purchased books by Jenny Wade, Michael Murphy, Jurgen Habermas, Pappa Free John,  Stan Grof, and a few more in conscious development and influences on Wilber.t of the footnotes are as significant as the chapter they are noted in and he loves going on footnote tangents, worthy of every morsel. <br /> <br />I'm impressed in the way Wilber defines much of the grown of consciousness in Sheldrake's theory of morphic fields or collective forces, waves and streams and various levels, which can be advanced more rapidly through altered states and yet cannot be omitted or overridden but most be personally developed and experienced in all. <br /> <br />The chapters on premoderism to modernism, but of more significance to myself, the chapter on modernism to postmodernism was the best I've had explained. using the deconstructuralism and both the validity and reductionist aspects - truly enlightening! Wilber is a special writer and personally, I think will go down in history as significant and prolific <br /> <br />There are many facets to this book. One is the pre-trans fallacy, where Wilber argues against his former teaching of romanticism of returning to the pre-ego self, as here he now teaches that the later development, as in the subtle and casual realms of consciousness are areas that include and transcend the ego, a whole/part within a larger whole, as opposed to the trashing of the ego and returning to the pre-ego. It is here that Jung's archetypes represent the subtle and if a collective consciousness relating to before the ego then a pre and not a trans development.  <br /> <br />Also argued are Stan Grof's adaptation of Rankian analysis incorporated into his analysis of  the LSD experience in the return to the pre-ego and what's more argued is the ideas of returning to the birth process psychologically or having to be re-born as in a return. Instead it is a return only to re-experience in the sense of re-living or returning only to loosen the particular repression and to then move back forward to both include and transcend the ego development. You must first fully develop the ego to the strongest or highest extent before transcending it to the higher development.  <br /> <br />I just purchased books by Jenny Wade, Michael Murphy, Jurgen Habermas, Pappa Free John,  Stan Grof, and a few more in conscious development and influences on Wilber.	2005-09-08
US	52783335	R3HNB1WFYQPLYV	1876175184	796444828	Capitalism in Crisis: Globalization and World Politics Today	Books	5	5	8	N	Y	Brilliant! Objective World Assessment Outside American Journalism.	This book relates global issues historically and economically and does so without the American propaganda, nor the European which is tied up in US Hegemony and constraints. Fidel is a reader. I think that speaks for itself. I did my usual note taking when reading a book and this time around under what I call \\"quotes,\\" I have so many that I couldn't possibly use all of them in this book review, there are just too many!    Fidel speaks of the American and global economy based on the U.S. dollar the US inflating the dollar no longer backed by gold, which then like the alchemists turns paper into gold. And when the trust is evaporated, which will happen one day, then we get the idea of the eschatological implications in a global economic crash far worse than the 1929 depression where only a small percentage invested in he stock market. Also the benefits of Europe's currency needed for their survival. What I really enjoyed was Castro words on Cuba when she several times re-evaluated the currency there. It has proven a truth that I find outweighs and shows the falseness of the free market fundamentalists of capitalism - libertarians and conservatives alike. If Cuba has followed the WTO and IMF she would have lost many educators, doctors and closed down hospitals and schools, (Although something all together different are the libertarians who reject all government intervention in favor of a helmless free market).    Just a short review here: Some of the thoughts conveyed are the superficiality of mass media and TV over the reading of books; the destruction of culture from US hegemonic values based on consumerism, sex, violence and extravagant life styles; capitalism consumer created pollution and the destruction of our planet; the WTO and US interests - an example is the private ownership of two banana U.S. corps vote for the  removal of the privileges of the small Caribbean nations that severely depend on this industry - the Lemone Act. Anotherwards the WTO and the IMF, they would like to privatize all the poor underdeveloped as owned private property, countries for \\"free trade,\\" This in turn would reduce all of Latin American to US large Corp. private property where persons, now mere commodities, would be reduced to cheap labor, including all the raw materials and so forth, all so to support the wealthy in the US so they can increase their automobiles and luxury items and so forth.    Also Cuba produces doctors that are sent out across the world in aid for the poorer people, all so under one of the most brutal blockades, now a double one since the demise of the Soviet Union.     Fidel speaks of the Cuban missile crises and the new declassified documents that Noam Chomsky also writes about in his book on US hegemony, of the U.S. scandalous lies and deceit against Cuba - the same they have recently employed against Iraq - but sadly for Iraq, they had no other superpower, the USSR, to back them for protection.    OK, there are thoughts on Bolivar, Marti, Marx, Freidman, Keynes, Hidalgo, Miranda, on Adam Smith and Lenin, on the author Garcia Marquez, on Roosevelt, Reagan and Carter, on the Serb and Yugoslavia - this man is a learned man and very informative- no beating around the bush, but straight forward and honestly open. He also speaks straight forward for Cuba, a country that has never tortured or murdered people for political gain, unlike the US record which is horrendous and then claims it fights for humanitarian purposes, using that as an accusation against other countries. The list of US abuses around the world are also brought out here.    Castro recognizes that world globalization is not only necessary but part of the historical process that must occur. The idea is not for the globalization based on imperialistic domination of a superpower which exploits poorer and weaker countries but rather a globalization that brings fraternal unity and peaceful relations in trade and economics and a balance of power and wealth. And the point is Cuba's history supports this belief. What does the U.S. record show? It simply cannot be defended honestly apart from blind nationalism.    There is also the lawsuit of the U.S. suing Cuba - 3 persons at over 62 million a piece and if you read how they came to this number you can question the U.S. Judicial system and the judges we have appointed there. In turn, now that the embarrassing U.S. declassified documents are out (not all of course), which openly reveal CIA terrorist operations in Cuba. Cuba has subsequently made a lawsuit against the U.S. with far reasonable claims in damages - the comparison is so blatant here. And what patriotic nationalist, free market fundamentalist and Right Wing absolutist will admit to themselves without emotional discharge the actions being taken here.	2005-09-05
US	52783335	R3FSXJC9L16PSW	0671723650	132993260	How to Win Friends & Influence People	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Beneficial, Practical Advice, Not At All Outdated	I found this book to be very practical and yet much is forgotten by most people, as this is not kindergarten knowledge as one reviewer suggests, but rather it is basic teachings that you can witness in your daily life are severely lacking in many persons, not to mention and admit to yourself as well, just ride down the New Jersey highway to work one morning and see how people act, narcissism rules over in these parts.<br /><br />What I really enjoyed was not just the principles and particular rules, but the stories related behind them. The book was written in the 1930's and the characters and stories relate people and places in that time, which are timeless stories with practical results in dealing with other people with much wisdom. And some of these characters, as in Theodore Roosevelt, are worth remembering, significant people not to forget. While this is an easy to read this book, it's another thing to both apply and remember to apply in daily situations with other people.<br /><br />How many people really listen to one another, try to remember their names, let them save face, try to let them take credit for ideas, show them importance, smile, relax, empathize, apply Socratic inquiry over correcting, asking questions instead of giving orders, call attention to others mistakes in an indirect manner, admit one's own mistakes, lay down a positive reputation before proof, make light of other's faults seeming easy to correct and so forth. A highly important and helpful book which is beneficial in all areas of life - social, business and etc.	2005-08-31
US	52783335	R3RZOZ9LFPHX7E	1876175451	425750907	Che Guevara on Global Justice	Books	5	48	53	N	Y	A Revolutionary's View In Favor of Socialism	Humanistic Socialism. When you read this book, you can really see the flexibility, a far cry and major difference from the scientific Hegelian materialism of Marx, the dogmatism of Luxemburg and the authoritarianism of Lenin. The difference is a socialism, which emphasizes the need to listen to and work with the people in a democratic means, rejecting the exploitation found in authoritarian and bureaucracy found in the former Soviet and European socialism.    Of course this socialism is also against the neo-liberal free market fundamentalism in the framework of the capitalistic economy dominated by the strong players who take advantage over the weak, under the same rules applied for all under the misleading terminology of \\"free trade.\\"     In this system of humanistic socialism, che speaks of the flexibility of state control, which in turn, acts in accordance between the state and the masses or proletariat, which includes compromises as to private ownership in certain cases, as in the many farmers, and in creating a societal structure devoid of exploitation, one based on the principles of socialism in an equalitarian, fair and just society where all are entered into the economic privileges which are available. There are of course limitations, however much is due not to the system itself but to the U.S. blockade against Cuba in obtaining raw materials, oil and other necessary items for people to survive and have any degree of prosperity.     The esteem in the whole thing is Guevara and Castro's efforts in this regard, rejecting all dogmatic and Hegelian formulas which create bureaucratic nightmares as witnessed in Soviet communism and the Eastern European block, which subsequently failed and is no more. Unfortunately, the results of such a fall are U.S. imperialism on the rise and on a much more dangerous level to the world community of autonomous and independent existence.     Now in response to the claim against socialism, (Von Mises) that socialism cannot performeconomic planning from lack of a free market, Guerra speaks of a planning of fixed prices and trade agreements prior to the trading itself.  The trading of goods for goods and services is also endorsed.     The only question that really hangs in the balance is that while humanistic socialism is flexible, fights exploitation, fights bureaucracy and so forth, it is still state control. And like a monarchy, the kingdom is ideal when the king works for the common interest of the proletariat, but when his successor replaces him or her, the balance of power can be radically altered to the point of Leninist and Stalinist authoritarian proportions. And so it is, the humanistic socialism practiced by Castro hangs in the fragility of his successors and/or the successors of the present leaders in the government. Over all, I find Che's political philosophy in this book very well to both read and consider. There is no question in the issues raised of both the fight of super power imperialism and the need for an equalitarian, non-exploitive government and society.    However my above question on socialism strongly argues against this fragility. For what Che's socialism espouses is really democracy, unlike the capitalistic representative forms. And this difference entails both education and self education where all citizens become active participants in government, where the culture itself is self-governing, removed from economic alienations. So in this sense, the succession of leaders would not alter the social and cultural fabric of the democratic individualization found in socialistic practice.	2005-08-30
US	52783335	R2NNX677B7SII8	0140187650	256512110	Eichmann in Jerusalem: A Report on the Banality of Evil	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Penetrating Evaluation of The Eichmann Trial	This is a great book, filled with details and the following review is just a few thoughts jumping around the place to gain a general idea. I find Hannah Arendt a very credible author, a German, who attended Heidelburg University with a doctorate in philosophy and studied under Karl Jaspers and visiting professor at several prestigious universities in the United States. Her account takes in both her German experience, her stay at Jerusalem, attending the Eichmann trial, the reading of various court manuscripts of Eichmann and others. The book is rather detailed on the entire Jewish question of WWII, yet is not a book on the whole \\"Final Solution,\\" persay, but an account of the Eichmann trial. <br /> <br />While nonexhaustive, Arendt is penetrative, far more than these few paragraphs attempt to relate, and I highly recommend this book, Some of the ideas raised are the questions of ethnic restrictions, as even Israel and Judaism in endorsing marriage within the race and separation. There is the question of whether the trial should have been in Jerusalem or of an international court - inquiring as to crimes not only against the Jews but against humanity on a global scale. The charges of the defense aimed at Israel's competence in the trial location. Yet here we can see each European country holding trials in their own localities on Nazi war criminals, whereas Israel at that time did not have a nation when the Nuremburg and other trials took place. There are also the issues of the crimes themselves; personal responsibility, obedience to superiors, actions taken apart from superiors, the idea of the legality of the State (raison d'etat) overriding law in criminal actions to preserve itself verses the individual committing criminal actions. Yet here the State's action should be the exception to the rule, not the norm, for this was systematic genocide in a non-war capacity, actions taken apart from the reason of war and State preservation. <br /> <br />The fact that this man was not a monster, not a sadistic hate filled orgasmatic murderer but instead the epitome of a valueless or extreme relativistic void in existential space. Here was a logical man yes, but one who had morals? Eichmann was familiar, reading Theodore Herzel and so who was more fitted for the Nazi's to deal with the Jewish question? His morals conveniently fit the role he was actively pursuing. What was ultimately noted were his personal autonomous decisions apart from his superiors, particularly at the end of the war when Himmler ordered the cessation of the exterminations, attempting to put many of the prominent Jews up in Hotels in France to pacify the allies, thinking this could be his ticket to more lenient penalties, as though all would be forgiven as conscious guilt and crimes against humanity were not in his psyche, nor Eichmann's for that matter. Eichmann, claiming Himmler's orders against the Furers, continued the deportations/liquidations - genocidal actions. <br /> <br />There are the issues raised of the Jewish counsels selling out their own people and subsequent convictions, also the Germans separation of prominent Jews in the Jewish Ghetto, Theresienstadt, mostly for monetary purposes and trades, and the ironic half-Jews that Hitler himself left unmolested, and amazingly, one (some) of the mass murder responsible parties, as in Eichmann's superior, Heydrich, was also a half-Jew, which was kept in secrecy. And speaking of secrecy, Arendt writes of the Nazi \\"language rules\\", how terms like the \\"final solution,\\" \\"evacuation\\" and the likes, hid the realities of terms such as mass murder, torture and genocide. I can't help but be reminded of Orwell's \\"newspeak\\" language in \\"1984,\\" and the fact that language plays such a large part in all the distortions of the media that so influence society today. <br /> <br />Also informational, the communities/countries, such as the oppositions of Denmark and France. France became resistant when their own French Jews weredemanded from them, then the Germans had to back down, neither having the strength nor organization to fully implement their plans there. It's just a horror that all countries didn't fight for their Jewish residents and those made stateless by Germany.  There's much more to this book, the moral, social, political issues that question the validity of the case, how emotional detachment from the most horrendous crimes leave a cold objective reality where facts must be presented, and when they do, they almost always occur with paradox with shades of meanings that question others which are considered as valid.	2005-08-25
US	52783335	R1FINVMPMQZ5XP	1560256907	755472479	Revolution for the Hell of It: The Book That Earned Abbie Hoffman a Five-Year Prison Term at the Chicago Conspiracy Trial	Books	5	20	23	N	Y	Revolution For Autonomy and Freedom	A great book! A revolutionary book. Yes, a sign of it's times and yet very relevant to this time in respects to action and freedom, long lost ideals in today's Right wing conservative society, at least by the majority. Although it was only a segment then too, it was a greater segment amidst a large sea of liberal tolerance and open dialogue. Obviously there was much Right conservativism then too, and staunch power control conservativism within the Democratic liberal front as seen by the whole Chicago convention affair, Mayor Daley, the brutality of the cops and so forth. Even on St. Marks Place in NYC, Hoffman speaks of the heavy police presence and harassments. So much of what is written at that time applies to today and it's overkill and abuses of privacy and freedom, all excused under the new \\"war on terror\\" banner flying through out and it's blinded patriots and nationalists. <br /> <br />It's the vision of liberty and the idea of the abolishment of property and ownership and yet this is not a book on communist maxims and tight political formulas, not at all. It is a book about the freedom of individual expression, autonomy, and most of all creativity in action. The heroes and influences are Che Chevarra, Castro and Cuba, Camus, McLuhan. The times have changed, things have regressed back to the masses glued to their ego roles as sole personal identification, taking too seriously, resulting in additional laws, loss or private rights, and most of all wars. Same as then it is now, except there were a great group of young minds that had the doors of their perceptions opened up through psychedelics and were able to see through and above the superficial roles that today are taken so seriously, the actions of intolerance, exclusiveness, cultural power domination, imperialism and internal restrictions masked under hidden agendas.  <br /> <br />Except they the MOB, Yippies and so forth, were so radical and yet, that is what is needed in any revolution. Although the harassment that comes with it with outright false charges and even beatings applied by the cops and the government that it questions whether it is all worth it. It is, and it isn't, at least someone has to speak up. I am so grateful to the people of today such as Michael Moore who dare speaks up. And his is attacked and criticized for it immensely. Even mothers who children have died from war and are now protesting the Iraq war are met with severe opposition from George W. Bush nationalists and Christian religious fundamentalists.  <br /> <br />Personally speaking, I wish there were perceptive openness today in people and those that spoke out against the police domination and conservative aggression played by the power people and moralist absolutists, but I prefer hermitude whenever possible and thus avoid all confrontations and abuses by those with power. Perhaps that is a cop-out, but it is safer and in reality, paradise is within and so is hell. There is also power in numbers and when the majority is under the spell of the propaganda of the leaders then the fight is that much harder. This book, Abbie Hoffman, Jerry Rubin, David Peel, John Lennon, Dave Dillinger, & many more go down as great revolutionaries for their times and this book, despite being radical in many ways, expounds much profound wisdom. <br /> <br />At the end of the book is a reprint of the pamphlet \\"F**k The System,\\" which was all about dropping out, as in Leary's \\"Turn On, Tune In and Drop Out,\\" it is about living without money, finding free items and ways to survive. I looked it up on amazon and found only one used copy available through a private seller. Would you believe he/she is asking $750.00 for it!!! Abbie said anyone who tries to make money off it is a communist, lol	2005-08-24
US	52783335	R2H0CVGDRNUX5M	0766017648	601949147	The Chicago Seven Political Protest Trial: A Headline Court Case (Headline Court Cases)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Short, Concise, Light Account - Lucid	This book was very informative and I truly enjoyed it and found it very easy to read. It appears as a school type book and in this sense being also for young adults. The only drawback is the book is only 100 pages and if it were in smaller print in a paperback, it would probably be only 60 pages or so, but nevertheless, it is very enlightening to the whole Chicago Seven Political Protest Trial.    The books sets the stage, very briefly describes the Characters, Abbie Hoffman, Jerry Rubin,, Rennie Davis, Lee Weiner, John Foines, Dave Dillinger, and Tom Heyden, also The head of the Black Panthers, Bobby Seals. Then there is the defense attorney, William Kunstler, the Chicago Mayor Richard Daley, the Prosecutor, Thomas Foran and the Judge Julius Hoffman.    There is no such thing as a completely objective book, however, it appears this book is as objective as it can get and you can decide who is right and who is wrong - in your opinion.     Personally speaking, I am no revolutionary, but I take the side of the seven to a major degree, at least their political ideas liberal freedom, as Che Chevara, however I am my own entity with my own value system. And their radicalness was also a sign of the times, times I think that at that time many person's minds had their perceptions opened from the use of psychedelics, enabling American society to have a large part of its populations of a higher conscious awareness level beyond the absolutism of political ideology in the flexible liberal element of free movement. And this is opposed to the stagnant political concepts of complete identification with the ego realty, and I'm sure especially to the Right conservative domination and power holders we have today.    The chapter on the their bios today is way too brief, but the book is about the trial, and so, it would be a good idea to read Hoffman's Auto bio and earlier books, \\"Revolution For The Hell Of It!,\\" \\"Steal This Book,\\" and, Rubin's \\"Do It!\\" and so forth to get a better grip.I've read a lot of the interviews of Alan Ginsberg, some of Leary's books and Ram Dass, some Che Chevara and Fidel Castro. Anyway this book was good, but to short. A little pricey too, but it comes in this really nice laminated hard cover, cosmetic and sturdy hard bound.	2005-08-24
US	52783335	R36CKV1LC9SHBH	0819561444	980877270	Life Against Death: The Psychoanalytical Meaning of History	Books	5	26	30	N	Y	Inspiring Psychoanalytical Meaning of History	An awesome book on the psychoanalytical meaning of history. I read that this book was admired by Jim Morrison in his bio by fellow band member Ray Manzarek. Books to read come in strange ways. I also read about this book referenced by the integral psychologist and philosopher Ken Wilber.<br /><br />This books gives credibility to Freudian Analysis. Nor that it was ever lost, but there are neo-Freudians which of course differ from Freud and there is the reductionism when one looks only through one paradigm, regardless of it's accuracy. This is because there are other modes or of insight that co-inside and yet contradict some of Freud, but that's the beauty of it all, of the psychoanalytical analysis paradigm. And this paradigm is one of the subjective mind, unless you consider Freud to also be biological, then it would take in objectivity, but only in certain levels and degrees. And so this book I think expounds profoundly and is a deep book.<br /><br />OK, this book speaks of Freud's \\"pleasure principle,\\" \\"reality principle,\\" Oedipus complex,\\" \\"death instinct,\\" castration anxiety,\\" and while this outwardly may sound very limited, the issue comes down to one thing, repression. And whether its sexual, excremental, power or various levels of blocked emotional energies, the theories employed as to why and are very valuable in understanding ourselves and others. And this repression is based on sublimated infantile erotic pleasures beyond into a reality principle and in many cases death instinct. There are many fascinating chapters/essays on these ideas. The fact of the matter is we all came from the womb, all had consciousness of embryonic narcissistic selfhood and sought pleasure and had to deal with reality. We all had a mother (not including abandonment) who became our entire world, our need for pleasure verses pain and desire to possess and it was of a erotic nature. And we all had to deal with separation aspects as major threats to our consciousness.. So much of psychoanalysis rings of truth.<br /><br />Interesting how the death instinct is the desire to get back to the womb, the incapacity to accept the individuality of life. So it's this form of romanticism, to get back to the child, to play. Unfortunately it negates life in that it fails to accept and represses and causes a life view, either socially, politically, individually & etc. to live a live of undue restraint or hardships with the idea that this life is all temporary, working towards dying in this life to be rewarded with the return back to the womb. And so this is a death against life, a life where the irrational Dionysian play is destroyed and we live in a purely empirical scientific age of logic and rationalistic work, where living is logic in work, as opposed to the idea of play, of childlike ability to live in the present moment, without historicity and guilt and instead the moment where all action is spontaneous play. But instead we repress our play, create history from guilt and rationalize a materialist way of living. The archaic man sublimated his guilt in group activity and had this marvelous trait of each year erasing his historicity in sharing, but even then it was a form of sublimation of guilt. Modern man just builds on his history and lives a capitalistic life based on valueless commodity. Value is measurement, quantity, no longer quality and art. Money has become our excrement. The archaic man transferred or sublimated his sexual and infantile narcissistic energies into a community or shared social system. The modern man sublimates his into money and things he puts value into.<br /><br />History seen through the eyes of psychoanalysis can be viewed as the sublimation of repression. In this, the infant first exists according the pleasure principle in where is bodily functions take first priority. The reality principle of course combats this and the young child develops the Oedipus complex, wishing to completely own his mother, jealous, wishing to eliminate his father or become the father to himself.<br /><br />In sublimation, there is the repression of bodily and sexual instinctive desires into what we know of as culture. And the higher the culture the greater the sublimation. What has culminated is our era of objective materialism and empirical science which represses the non-rational nature of wish fulfillment's, desires and instinctual drives. Brown proposes that we reestablish our Dionysian roots, the creative, non repressive self where the use of a money and culture are not the means of escaping the pleasure principle. Instead we play, erase historicity, loose the guilt and accept our entire bodies, not just our minds.<br /><br />The essay on Jonathan Swift, his exposure of what appears to be prideful human intellectuals and cultural values to come from the anus and excrement (the as***le and sh*t). And he both Norman O. Brown and Jonathan Swift link as all ideas as coming from the human body, ideas used to empower persons, elevate and leave teachings that far outlive the human being's body, another wards a way to be immortal, as an act of repression of the anxiety of death, of separateness. The idea of becoming one's own father - immortality, the Oedipus complex. There is much to this. And yet in a sense, all \\"matter\\" comes from excrement, which is what all we are made from biologically, the very biological make up that brings forth our minds and intellectual ideas.<br /><br />Much, much more to this book, not said here.ng to eliminate his father or become the father to himself. <br /> <br />In sublimation, there is the repression of bodily and sexual instinctive desires into what we know of as culture. And the higher the culture the greater the sublimation. What has culminated is our era of objective materialism and empirical science which represses the non-rational nature of wish fulfillment's, desires and instinctual drives. Brown proposes that we reestablish our Dionysian roots, the creative, non repressive self where the use of a money and culture are not the means of escaping the pleasure principle. Instead we play, erase historicity, loose the guilt and accept our entire bodies, not just our minds.  <br /> <br />The essay on Jonathan Swift, his exposure of what appears to be prideful human intellectuals and cultural values to come from the anus and excrement (the as***le and sh*t). And he both Norman O. Brown and Jonathan Swift link as all ideas as coming from the human body, ideas used to empower persons, elevate and leave teachings that far outlive the human being's body, another wards a way to be immortal, as an act of repression of the anxiety of death, of separateness. The idea of becoming one's own father - immortality, the Oedipus complex. There is much to this. And yet in a sense, all \\"matter\\" comes from excrement, which is what all we are made from biologically, the very biological make up that brings forth our minds and intellectual ideas. <br /> <br />Much, much more to this book, not said here.	2005-08-20
US	52783335	R23SOXAWS4ACDQ	1875284729	810694954	Face to Face with Fidel: Conversations with Tomas Borge	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A Respectable Leader For Over 40 Years - The Revolution Continues . . .	Now I have to write you, I have a lot of respect for this man, Fidel Castro. And before you disagree from American journalism, you should read this book. For instance, even the American, Howard Zinn's \\"Peoples History of the United States,\\" conveys the actions taken by early Cuba and those of the United States and you read just there the validity of the Cuban actions taken by Castro. This is not to deny the bad, yet you will find that everywhere, no place exempt, however what does this book speak? What reasonings does it employ? What does it relate as to Castro's character? I think it is a positive message and I couldn't imagine anything close in honesty and measure by George W. Bush, not at all, especially the personal interests in reading books and learning about history, science, art and so forth.    Now the book as some wonderful thoughts and Castro is a decent man in his words here. The embargo against Cuba has truly been barbaric and there has been no sense to it at all since the folding of the Soviet Union, except that the U.S. wishes to exercise its powerful means in it's imperialistic maneuvers. It is a horrendous thing that a country should be punished for simply having a different value system. This is why the revolution continues. If the pressure would stop and just allow this country to \\"be,\\" then more flexibility can be employed there, not to mention the innocent civilians can have a fuller life. It's amazing how Castro has been able to keep things going, and improving in medicine and technology despite the barbaric embargo against him.     I'm praying this revolution continues, as it stands as the beacon light for Latin America against U.S. imperialism and global domination. Even the best systems and governments need opposing viewpoints, this is why the founding fathers of the U.S. devised a system of executive, legislative and judicial that would be in tension with one another, because there is no unity without diversity and there cannot be a one world government with only one value system, otherwise it would become an Orwelian \\"1984.\\"    \\"As for the death penalty, the country in which the most people are given the death penalty is the United States. The U.S. record is horrible. Should we believe that all of them are common criminals? What about all the the people who are unemployed, without any support, and have to commit crimes in order to survive? Isn't there any political responsibility?\\" pp. 138-139    \\"The ideas of Marx, Engels, Lenin and Che aren't dogmas - they are brilliant samples of talent and of political, social and revolutionary vision created at a certain time. They are always applicable as long as you don't consider them immutable dogma to do so would be to take them out of the scientific, political, revolutionary context and make them a matter of religion.\\" p. 50    This quote by the interviewer, the former Minister of the Interior in the Sandinista government in Nicaragua, Tomas Borge, are my thoughts as well and why economic equality is crucial for democracy to have value. So the left or liberal democracy, not the neo-liberal unequality of hypocritical terms as \\"free trade,\\" which terminology acts as a deceptive language tool. \\"Recent events in Venezuela show, for the nth time, that democracy without social justice is worth no more than our devalued currencies. Political democracy is an empty formality if not accompanied by economic democracy.\\" Tomas Borge, p. 56     \\"We had great cutbacks, at the same time we maintained our priority programs related to biotechnology, the pharmaceutical industry and the medical equipment industry . . . the emphasis on the food program is in spite of some quite serious limitations in the projects for building dams, canals and irrigation systems and in the projects of engineering systems in sugarcane and rice, which we have had to nearly halt while we go everything reorganized and get some fuel . . \\" pp. 113-114    Fidel speaks of the health care system for schools, and hundreds of thousands of Cubans and from other countries, in sending teachers for children in other parts of the world. \\"Has any government or country done more for human rights than Cuba? What basis can there be for all the slander campaigns they launch against our country? Naturally, we're accustomed to this, and it just rolls off our backs, because we're used to the imperialists' baseness. How can they survive if not with propaganda? How would they survive without lies? How can they explain all of the crimes they commit against the world, if not with lies and calamity, trying to discredit those who oppose them?\\" p. 135     \\"All over the world, in capitalistic society, including the capitalistic Third World countries, some citizens have been alienated and are considered worthless. they are taken to vote for somebody every four, five or six years without even knowing who they're voting for or why - because, often, their low political cultural level and low cultural level in general don't give them a chance to decide freely. They're influenced by all the mechanisms for exerting mental and psychological influence in decision-making - and then nobody cares about  them any more. there isn't any sense of identification between such people and the state, the government and the society in which they live. They are condemned to a desperate struggle for survival without any social worth, respect or consideration. In a country such as ours, the situation is entirely different, with total identification and full participation by citizens in all activities - political activities, activities in defense of our country, cultural activities and for developing the country. Haws any country done more for human rights in this regard than Cuba?\\" pp. 131-132    There's much to be contemplated here. And Fidel speaks of the polis in ancient Greece, their democracy, but their deficiencies and injustices of slaves and non voting rights  for women and alien residents who could notobtain citizenship. Cuba in some respects is like the positive traits of early Greece in a community where each citizen is expected to be an active political participant. It is a very different culture than the U.S. and should be respected, honored with full allowance for trade and economic prosperity. Tolerance must be exercised for integral world development and the very future of humanity and conscious awareness.	2005-08-20
US	52783335	RREECA4V7BHFN	094261738X	379649328	Uncle Eric Talks About Personal, Career, and Financial Security (An Uncle Eric Book)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Excellent Personal and Practical Advise For Financial Security	Maybury begins in discussing mental models or paradigms and how all data we obtain used to support or work with our internal models and how everyone has them and the failure of many educators to understand when obtaining data. We build models, sort data and there's an excellent outline of rules to weigh the evidence. Rather than simply trust the experts, we need to look more towards the hard sciences at least in business and financial security. Now to learn and teach models, in many cases simple stories are more effective than technical data.    Two important models of Maybury are the Austrian economics, which can be read in F.A. Hayek's book, \\"The Road to Serfdom\\" and Ludwig von Mises, \\"Planned Chaos,\\" and the model of old British common law, which can be read in Maybury's \\"What Ever Happen To Justice.\\" While most educations do not include models, the advice is to determine models, and in doing so, Maybury gives excellent advice or steps to obtain one and gathering evidence and a working hypothesis. I've read just about the same method in a more philosophical tone by others such as Ken Wilber and find this significant advice. And see if the model predicts to some accuracy and that it can be tested against other models you already do know.    The warning is given to avoid tautology and circular reasoning, which many fall prey to. To watch our for cognitive dissonance or emotional blockage to anyone that challenges your model and to always refrain from absolutism and certainty so you can refrain from the trap of cognitive dissonance with the flexibility and ability to grow in paradigm shifts or model changes. When noticing bad and/or evil actions it is the model behind the actions and data that you need to question. The idea here is that models can merge and become integral as in alchemy and wisdom. In this the LLC or limited liability company represents a bad model, an artificial privilege at the expense of others and distorts the stock markets.    Then there is excellent advice on how to acquire helpful models in business and personal character. And since the prosperous employee model has since folded from today's large government and taxes, owning a business can more advantageous, as well as a college degree, developing skills, staying clear from dept., owning assets free from debts, that is better to own a smaller estate free from debt that a large one in high credit, recognizing investments average 4% for stability, investing in short term, watching the world situations for stability, and most important is never to assume your models are complete, always be ready to refine them and consider new models.	2005-08-19
US	52783335	RYYMQF2T3TXK1	0942617517	434768067	The Money Mystery: The Hidden Force Affecting Your Career, Business, and Investments  (An Uncle Eric Book)	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Excellent Primer In Economics - Very Informative	Excellent primer in economics, that is for the layman like myself. In lucid, clear terms, Maybury describes the meanings of the demand for money, velocity and inflation and how it affects us from all over the world. <br /> <br />In this, low velocity exists in the low volume of currency being transferred due to persons holding on to their money, while high velocity exists in higher volumes of money transfer. And while the government inflates the money supply to pay for their expenses, inflation occurs which can lead to the second stage of devalue and inflation and third stage of runaway inflation. And so the government then raises interest rates and stops printing in attempt to slow down the inflation, which usually brings on a recession. It is here where many businesses are adversely affected from expansion from the inflation, only to be severely affected during the recession. <br /> <br />In this, Maybury brings out the history lesson from the French, prior the revolution, from over inflating the money supply and the subsequent results of runaway inflation; the end result was a new government with a dictator, Napoleon. And the history of President Carter's freeze on Iranian assets in response to the hostages held for the U.S. protection of the overthrown Shah. And so such a freeze caused panic in the other Arab countries, who could not liquidate their assets so quickly as they were bound in real estate and other non-liquid holdings. And then Carter's embargo on Russia from her invasion in Afghanistan also created a panic in the economy, the dollar way down, gold way up. Lessons to learn.  <br /> <br />Helpful advise is given on how to invest - short term, on what to watch for, the curve in interest. A great theory is given on what has been happening over the recent years. The ideas are that the U.S. has been issuing bonds with greater interest which people buy and subsequently hold on to. This way the government can print to their hearts desire and not increase the velocity and inflation and the deficit can go up to unlimited degrees. But this however will bottom out one day when people become aware. And when that does, look out, there will be runaway third stage inflation - a disaster. So there are things to do and watch for and Maybury is truly beneficial and helpful, significant advice, knowledge and insight to be more alert in what to watch for. <br /> <br />What also is highly recommended are Maybury's other books in economics, \\"What ever Happened to Penny Candy?\\" and \\"The Clipper Ship Strategy.\\" <br />	2005-08-18
US	52783335	R37LY43KCA27WP	0942617142	923474167	Evaluating Books: What Would Thomas Jefferson Think About This? : Guidelines for Selecting Books Consistent With the Principles of America's Founder (Maybury, Rick. "Uncle Eric" Book.)	Books	5	8	22	N	Y	Is Liberty Statism or Non-Statism? Privatization or Communism?	First of all, I have read most of Richard Maybury's books and find them very valuable and enlightening. \\"Whatever Happened to Justice,\\" is an excellent eye opener on democracy verses liberty and common law verses political law. His books on the economy, \\"Whatever Happened to Penny Candy,\\" \\"Personal Finance,\\" (I haven't read the \\"Clipper Ship Strategy\\" as of yet) and his books on WWI and WWII are some of the best I have read, exposing the \\"other side of the stories.\\" He really is an excellent writer in both bringing out significant points relatively unknown by the majority and doing so with lucid simplicity. I also enjoyed very much his book on Rome and imperialistic influences on Western civilization and the 1000 year war of the Middle East. His book entitled, \\"Are you a Liberal, a Conservative or Confused,\\" is also excellent. And so I recommend all his books, every one. <br /> <br />And now this book on Thomas Jefferson. This is also an excellent book and I think it's an accurate assessment on him and the founders and their political philosophy in forming the United States of America. I do not disagree here on their original intentions. However I am not an \\"enemy of Statism,\\" as Jefferson and other founding fathers were. I do believe that such philosophy was of the times and must be contrasted in a country with a much higher population and secondly, subsequent the advent of the \\"corporation.\\" <br /> <br />So I am speaking here as a \\"statist,\\" and a liberal one at that, but not a statist without compromises depending on the nature of the particular issue. Now I admire both Maybury and this book, despite my personal differences. And I say this because I am rather convinced that BOTH the extreme statist views and the extreme nonstatist views are dangerous political ideologies when carried out.   <br /> <br />Statism endorses large government which is deadly with burdens on free trade that destroy both the economy and the freedom and liberty rights of the individual, while nonstatism produces a \\"Wild West\\" free society with entrepreneur and corporate abuses that are abusively horrific. <br /> <br />However, statism in moderation both restrains the abuse of liberty of the entrepreneur and corporation from severe and ugly domination and yet allow them the liberty and freedom of free trade (within limits - there must be boundaries!), ownership and rewards for hard work.  <br /> <br />Nonstatism in the extreme is privatization and this can be ugly in its radical form. I have a book at home on early America with a photo of a 19th century American factory, young children all squatting, sorting grains with a proud and assuming entrepreneur standing over them boldly and blatantly stating \\"As soon as their old enough to stand, they are ready to work,\\" Another picture is of a small boy, face covered in dirt and drained from a hard days (12, 14, 18 hours work?). Thank God for statism and child labor laws! Thank the creator, or the higher wisdom or the insight of the Common Law to environmental protection, child labor protection, workers rights and so forth. And Maybury in mentioning some of this makes much to light of the severity of the issues. These are crucial and absolutely necessary protections, protections that need to be enforced through statism.  <br /> <br />Also, there are the lynchings of mobs from lack of security forces and people carrying guns. And while unlimited free trade and liberty sounds so fair it is not. Not when the players are unevenly matched, like a Little League Baseball team competing against the New York Yankees. And while it may be true that it was in reality the inflation created by the government to pay for WWII expenses, and not mainly the New Deal and Social Security Socialistic measures instituted by Roosevelt, I don't think, these can be simply written off as non beneficial. Balance consists in both socialism, capitalism and democracy, none swaying all in one direction. And yes, his foreign policy was brutal, but this is addressing the internal socialistic policies for the benefit of the \\"working\\" man the proletariat. <br /> <br />Statism in the extreme is government ownership of all, communism. Communism without the \\"Bill of Rights,\\" as found in the United States, is despotism and authoritarian and secondly, creates lazy parasitic conditions, which removes the initiative of free trade and the work ethics and (healthy) ambitions that coincide producing positive growth and utility and productivity for both the individual and the society as a whole. <br /> <br />The Jurist Naturlist resembles the Libertarian, which are in reality are the old Classic Liberals - not the same as Liberals, but the inversion of the Moderates, that is, the moderate Conservatives and Liberals, those in between. (No controls verses limited controls in both social and economic areas) The moderates want in limited degrees that is, both social and economic government controls with moderation, while the Libertarian and Jurist Naturalist want the extreme in small portion, anotherwards very little controls at all. Now the liberal is against social controls and enforces economic - consumer protection, while the conservative want are against the economic controls, enforcing the social - morality codes and censorship. Again, the Jurist Naturalist - neither. <br />	2005-08-12
US	52783335	R2G6IPN7LOUKBY	0140446044	303469300	Michel de Montaigne - The Complete Essays (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	"The Most Delightful Pleasures, Indeed, Are Digested Within"	This book reader is literally 40 or so books behind on reviewing and tired of writing. And then I came across a book by a man, Montaigne, who was sort of ordinary, yet entirely respectable with much learnable wisdom who wrote:    \\"To remedy a little the treachery and defect of my memory (so extreme that it has happened to me more than once to take books again into my hand as though new and unknown to me, which I had carefully read a few years before and scribbled with my notes), I have taken a custom of late to put at the end of every book ... the judgment I had formed of it on the whole, in order that this might at least reproduce for me the air and general idea I had conceived of the author in reading it.\\" p. 165    He lived a rather conformable wealthy life, never had to really struggle and liked to read. He was a retired French lawyer and later in life decided to write some essays. He speaks from a liberal and moderate upbringing. his father teaching him Latin, which he later forgot, and a general environment conducive for positive development and learning. Some of his writing is rather ordinary but well written, other portions do touch on profound thoughts and always do so in a liberal, open, that is a non-dogmatic and non-absolute with values direction.    His essays vary on many subjects as in turning within as opposed to the externa, the power of education, obedience verses reason, not following the crowd as many weak minded, the value in speaking freely, how sometimes it is right to lie but not in hypocritical actions or two faced incongruency.    He recognized the value of relative knowledge and therefore was not a dogmatic conservative. And almost like a beatnik and Buddhist, quoting from Horace on page 45, he tried to express what he considered \\"moving thoughts,\\" which to him, were the essence of poetry, not in rhe beauty of decorative words.    His influences can be clearly seen as Cicero, Horace, Virgil, the Stoic Seneca, Lucretius, Persius, Ovid and others. There is much, much more here as there are many topics. My copy is approximately 600 pages. The book is smooth to read, practical, in some of the essays very enlightening and an enjoyable read from the mind of a learned, practical and reasonable French gentleman of the16th century, clearly beneficial to the culture, the era and the ideas of a man learned in various antiquities, very valuable for us to learn. For myself, a man after my own heart, one who while not at all a recluse or hermit, still a person who recognized and highly valued both reading and living in solitude.    \\"The most delightful pleasures, indeed are digested within; they avoid leaving any trace of themselves and avoid the sight not only of the public, but of any other person.\\" p. 226	2005-08-10
US	52783335	RM4FX4TPRFBRW	1890357154	169594310	Emperor of the Galatians: A Novel	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Man & His Noble Cause - Empty, Expendable. Teleological Beyond Human Futility?	I enjoyed this novel very much and recommend this book for the person who enjoys contemplative efforts. It is the kind of book that needs to be meditated on and goes far beyond the niceties of a mere entertaining novel. The story itself took me a couple of nights sleep to sink in to attempt to see the forest from the trees, the realism from the fantasy, from the nonfiction from the fiction and this book is apropos for the violence, the wars, the so called noble causes of humanity which have far more significant meanings in human existence than just reading a mere novel of entertainment with the hero's victory, the writer's box office smash and the happily ever after desires of story pleasure. The very pleasure principle of Freud is the result of repression of the realty principle and yet is that all we have? Is Sartre's nausea all there is in a  meaningless void? Or is there despite our most grueling and empty life, a life full of higher meaning even so in the very death of our lives as we fight for such noble cause with war and bloodshed that in realty only benefit evil and futile cause of more powerful men in the chain of command in human existence? Despite such utter futility, we may still look to God at the end and pray not only for our souls but for the very souls of all humans, animals and life itself. <br /> <br />Hear are the heroes and higher purpose which in realism, act in contradiction in the existential angst of futility and yet somewhere in higher meaning beyond the logic of religious absolutism and the empty blind patriotism of nationalistic pride, the distant noble hope still lives in subjectivity. As if in hope, there is really only the the Freudian repression of realty in the desires of man which hide in the existential realism of life's empty meaning, the void of emptiness. And yet what if there is some higher teleological meaning? An even much higher noble purpose which exists out of the sight and logistic understanding of man and his so called higher purpose of religious dogmatism and nationalistic pride?. As the madness of quantum physics, which defy all Newtonian logic, in reality still exist in organized structure far beyond the physicists insight and understanding, as the very hope of man, despite the futile existential void, exists in the interdependence of a transpersonal reality, a web of relational links which exist in both subjective and objective meanings, in both individual and collective subjective values and empirical realty beyond human empiricism into the very hope that man exhibits despite all meaninglessness of his human goals? And here is one of our heroes, who despite the tortures of his individual life, the cruelties of the leaders, the frailties of the body, the sadism of fellow travelers, stills \\"sees\\" the beauty of higher purpose and religious value in subjective being far beyond empirical science and political mathematics. So here is our end. Do we rest in ignorance, hiding in the certitude's of man made securities and answers. Or do we vomit in existential emptiness and cold painful menace? Or do we venture beyond both in a transpersonal or in an integral psychology of multiplicities where diversities, despite contradictions, rest in an interdependence of relational wholeness beyond human understanding which in essence is the religious hope and higher meaning of uncertainty and faith? <br /> <br />I recommend this book, mostly for the contemplator, the thinker, the realist and yet the one who can walk in what seems meaninglessness, in the desert without the water and yet \\"know\\" without sight, rest without rescue in the ambiguity of vision which exhalts higher and profound depths of being, stripping the surfaces of majority in superficial existence.	2005-08-09
US	52783335	R3F0MQFPVBOWZC	1876175982	419070883	Manifesto: Three Classic Essays on How to Change the World	Books	5	17	26	N	Y	Powerful Insight Into Marxist Views & Political History	Three very insightful essays. You can certainly learn and gain valuable insight to the ideals that literally have changed the world in many ways. Marx and Engels, Communist Manifesto; Rosa Luxemburg's Reform or Revolution and Che Guevara's Socialism and Man in Cuba.    I really think this book is very enlightening and is a highly valuable read. And with that, I would like to comment on the second essay, the essay by the Polish Jew and political activist who attended Zurich University, Rosa Luxemburg. This essay was published in 1898, nineteen years before the 1917 Bolshevik revolution.    Rosa Luxemburg's essay consists of an attack on Eduard Bernstein's book entitled \\"Problems of Socialism,\\" Seen from today's lenses reveals her erroneous absolute and dogmatic views, lacking in comparison to the logic of Bernstein. It's so obvious from the scientific Marxist views. Marx's and Engels views were based on rational science, Hegelian dialectics and like science, an exact blueprint of rational analysis. Today they call this \\"vulgar Marxism\\" and few follow it.(You can find a good analysis in Allan Bloom's, Closing the American Mind). Marxism today is not based on an exact science. That is the old view, the original view. And the obvious result of her attack on Bernstein is that everything she has attacked has come true, her defense for Absolutism, for exact science in economic history through Hegelian dialectics has proven false and inaccurate. Bernstein, on the other hand, has proven the greater prophet. And the answer lies in Luxemburg's very words of attack. In this she attacks him for his integral approach of aperspectivism in integrating multiple paradigms which allow the relative nature and uncertainty of the various shades and levels of both Liberal Democracy and Socialism. Bernstein's sees the differing aspects and refutes absolutism in Marxist science and dogmatism in its Hegelian nature. History, nor economic history, is not an exact science. And If I may take this a step further there are levels of subjectivity, objectivity, cultural and social aspects or the I, We and It (&Its) (the big three or the 4 Quadrants of Ken Wilber's Integral Psychology).    Bernstein sees the problems of socialism and the need for liberal democracy to reform slowly, even rejecting both (vulgar or original scientific, Hegelian) Marxism and Socialism and choosing to remain a liberal democracy but with socialist-liberal facets of nature (Roosevelt's domestic policies for instance), while Luxemburg seeing Marxism as an exact science sees revolution the only real way to bring forth Socialism. And although both thinkers are basically reduction in inter-objective social systems or political system theories, there still exists a major difference between both and that 150 years of time has vindicated (relativlty speaking: the low wages, poor and homeless in the U.S. are in large numbers) Bernstein's flexible and integral insight with greater value than Luxemburg's \\"flatland,\\" which in Integral Psychology means interpreting realty or in this case, economic political history, as only in objective terms, failing to understand its relativity in dealing with the individual and collective human subjective nature.    AND now I will contradict myself: Luxemburg was right, Bernstein was not. After reading Howard Zinn's Peoples History of the United States, it is evident; the only reforms come from revolution. Socialism is always adamantly fought by the wealthy, compromises are extremely rare.    Now the essay by Che Geverra is the only without such a materialistic, Hegelian science and Marxist exactitude of empirical societal observation on economic meaning. It is much less dogmatic and in that sense less scientific, being much more utilitarian in practical means to achieve a socialist revolution and common sharing good of the Cuban society.	2005-07-29
US	52783335	R1HI91A9GD0E1F	0942617460	963356752	Whatever Happened to Justice? (An Uncle Eric Book)	Books	5	46	47	N	Y	Liberty Verses Democracy - Common Law Verses Political Law	I have enjoyed this book very much! I had entered a search engine on Amazon.com books to study the differences of liberals and conservatives and purchased this book along with two other books, one from USA Today, by Victor Kamber and Bradley O'Leary, and the other on Moral Politics by George Lakoff, I then read Richard Maybury's book. I next bought Maybury's book on Ancient Rome and then ordered five more. My next book to read was this book, Whatever Happened to Justice?, apparently not the revised version. I really found convincing this book as accurate in historical truth in regards to the original political model set by Hamilton, Jefferson, Henry, Adams & etc. This is the first time I've read a critical difference between democracy and liberty and the argument for the later. While Democracy is majority rule, it is whatever the mob or majority decides, where as Liberty is based on the two eternal, multi-religious, multi-culture laws of \\"Do all you have agreed to do,\\" and \\"Do not encroach on other persons or their property.\\". Now that's ecstasy for me. <br /> <br /> <br />The information on the differences between the old British Common Law and Political Law. Now this is significant, as Common Law is based on the above two maxims, while Political Law is on whatever the government decides, whether it be a monarchy, fascist, socialistic or democratic - the government creates the laws. Common Law, the two maxims, are historical science, laws higher than man's; laws of nature itself.  <br /> <br /> <br />This book lucidly and simplistically explains the origins of government, that is, the thoughts and conceptions of the founding American government; Jefferson, Hamilton, Adams, the ideas of the Federalists and the Anti-Federalists, are some of the most lucid and clearest explanations I have ever read on this subject. I can't help but agree that the unregulated free trade, with limited government, employing the two  multi-religious, multi-cultural maxims - two basic common laws - would bring the founding fathers ideal towards the reality of a Pythagorean harmonious exchange of prosperity and liberty. The ideas of liberty takes precedence over democracy. <br /> <br />And so now I'm very interested in reading Mr. Maybury's books on WWI and WWII. As I found a review on the bluestockingpress website  from one reviewer named Harry Browne. Now that's got to be the Harry Browne who ran for President (Libertarian)! A person whose thoughts I happen to admire. And I have read many of his online articles on WWI and WWII in the past and was always so impressed. It appears that Richard Maybury's book has been the excellent source.	2005-06-12
US	52783335	R1CISH5Y75XRGV	0062517392	732355520	Life After Life: The Investigation of a Phenomenon--Survival of Bodily Death	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	The Immortal Soul or Human Mind?	I really enjoyed this book, the ground breaker for Near Death Experiences by Raymond Moody. It definitely is more in depth than most of the televisions shows I've seen on this subject over the years. <br /> <br />The book naturally goes into the phenomenon and  experiences themselves with its various similarities. The out of body, bright light, the review, the noise, the dark tunnel, meeting others, the being of light and its affect on them. <br /> <br />What I really enjoyed was the parallels of the Bible, Plato, the Tibetan Book of the Dead and Emanuel Swedenborg, so he enters into some of the spiritual and philosophical models that have profound teachings. All four, the Bible more the exception, relay life after death. Plato believed as the Tibetan Book of the Dead, in that the death of the body would release the consciousness or higher mind into a clearer more lucid understanding without the bodies or ego's conceptual grid and conceptions. <br /> <br />A short comparison is given with NDE's with the various explanations; the supernatural, the scientific (physiological and neurological, the psychological of isolation, dreams hallucinations and delusions) explanations, neurological. It was found that no drug used has achieved the same common affects and attributes of the NDE, but that only near death or at death do this occur. <br /> <br />A great sequel with much more information that continues here is Melvin Morse's Book, \\"Closer to the Light,\\"  written around 10 years later where Morse attempts to achieve by experiments what Moody has set forth.	2005-06-03
US	52783335	R22SBUIJVYDGY	1573228710	81768402	Still Here: Embracing Aging, Changing, and Dying	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Aging, Changing & Dying & The Soul Consciousness	Here is a book continuing the path of help and service to others, except this time Ram Dass, from a stroke, has more personal experience in the receiving end of helpful service, which makes his book that much more meaningful.<br /><br />I'm jumping around, but here are some of the ideas raised in this book.<br /><br />Here is information to help cope and understand the habits of thinking that occur as the body gets older and death is approaching. In this he touches on how society values information over wisdom; the wisdom found in aged persons, how many ancient cultures and spiritual teachings value elderly and wisdom, the spiritual over the material society, the eternal soul or jivaman and reincarnation, the ability to go outside the subjective self seeing three areas, the ego, the soul and the awareness level, the leap from self to awareness difficult for the ego as it signifies going home to what we are in union with God or the Universe.<br /><br />In growing old we can shift from our loneliness to aloneness, objectively accepting what is without suffering or pushing away, anotherwards ways of developing a new frame of mind as the mind becomes older, we become newer; Zen mind Beginners minds. The wisdom in aging, \\"being\\" over role playing, the ego mind and the witness soul, how what we do is only a part of what we are, how others perceptions are their problems not ours,  how to face the silence without rushing back into activity, how are dharma is our karma in the world, how to face ourselves in the present moment and drop our personal histories and future obligations as the problem is not thinking of the past, but getting locked in the subjective waves of attachment - or race, culture, self-pity, etc. \\"The key to freedom is understanding that in the present moment, there is no time.\\" p.135 By viewing all time or taking a time as the Sabbath or daily meditation times we consider as sacred and free from past and future, we can find the soul view, God, Awareness.<br /><br />We learn to take on the soul view of life with acceptance which equals wisdom. The soul can rest in silence, it needs no meanings, we let the ego cease to tyrannize us, we embrace our fears over denial, escape the ego prison. If we take things slow in mindfulness, we cease the cruel rush of \\"time is money\\" or \\"time is efficiency,\\" then we can taste the freedom of experiencing life and communicating with others - soul to soul communication - as he took his father to a childhood farm in two trips; one rushed, the other slow with the communication and connection.<br /><br />And as our bodies age we need to accept them. It is the ego which rejects as the king rejects the messenger or prophet with his news. We help ourselves by sitting in soul quietness over speaking. bringing listening calm over conveying our models of reality. In this as we can cope with pains by watching verses experiencing, letting it pass as the clouds pass by.<br /><br />There is advise on learning how to die, knowing the Soul consciousness at the time of death in mindfulness to stabilized us through the tumult of dying.  The dissolution of the ego structure, of the conceptual map by which we have chartered reality.	2005-06-01
US	52783335	R60HCRFQ9GP2S	0140439218	10902392	The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism: and Other Writings (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	5	10	16	N	N	The Protestant Calling of Capitalistic Virtues	It's interesting to read this book and see where it fits in today's Right Wing Christian Conservative mind-set, especially since they have been taking over the legislative, judicial and executive levels of government. And here is a damn good analysis on the formation of Protestant ethics born from and yet opposing it's mother, Catholicism. From her isolated monastic aim to the pursuit of a virtuous life pertaining to worldly advancement in capitalistic enterprise. The book is relatively reader friendly, but with a hundred pages of footnotes.    I can see this is where Erich Fromm obtained much of his information in his Escape From Freedom, yet this is much more detailed. How the Reformation meant not the elimination of the Church's control over everyday life, but rather the substitution of a new form of control for the previous one. How the Catholics, quieter less inquisitive impulse, had a stronger propensity to remain in their crafts while the Protestants attracted to action, to the factories in order to fill the upper ranks of skilled labor and administrative positions. The restful lesiureness of society was lost to the spirit of capitalism of \\"time is money\\" and efficiency, the utilization of personal powers and material possessions or capital, the moral attributes as quoted by Benjamin Franklin of \\"honesty the best policy\\" , the acquisition of money in diligence\\" Seest thou a man diligent in his business. He shall stand before kings - Proverbs XXii,29. Like the conservatives: unregulate all business in free trade, but instill morals in them.      It was here that Weber brings out that Luther reinterpreted the \\"calling\\" of Christ from the life of a monk and solitude to the aim of daily life both in family, domestic and in business; all activity was now considered as sacred. And now the amount of virtuous actions in business and money making was considered as part of this calling. What developed was the rejection of monastic asceticism to a new worldly asceticism. In this, Calvin's doctrine of predestination played a large role. True one is either elected or damned at birth, but the visible signs were worldly asceticism in virtues of daily life and the outward manifestations of capital, money, successful entrepreneurship. Calvin rejected all Catholic mystical and magical realms of imaginative and religious experiential awareness and rejection to all emotional appeal of religious experience to that of the utilitarian practicality of everyday efficient living in virtuous, the Puritan distrust of men, and ethical capitalistic society.    There's an excellent comparison of Lutheranism, Calvinism, the Pietism, Methodism and the Baptists sects, and their differences relating to capitalistic society. How the Puritans obsession with salvation from their anxious fear of death differs greatly from the Machiavelli proud love of this life. How conduct and poverty were signs to them of damnation and not of the elect. Man was systematized into a mechanical code of conduct as even the name Methodists implies \\"methods,\\" to prove one's faith in worldly activity, as in book keeping, paying debts, scoring credit with God as in business transactions. The whole moral code of ethics can be described in monetary transactions as the price for sin, the paying of debts, the ransom payment and so forth, a systematic rational ordering of he moral life as a whole. Pietism allowed more emotion which was foreign to Calvinism, but not without methodical treatment and formulations, assuming grace is offered to all men, perhaps only at a certain moment in life, so here was the restorations of sacraments and confessionals from sin, grace being applied.    The Methodists saw all work not for salvation but for the glory of God, thus the clear sign of living a virtuous life, performing good works and pies actions with the Wesley anti-Calvinistic doctrine of grace. Here the doctrine of predestination was given up for the doctrine of ascetic conduct and grace.And so as the unequal distribution of goods were seen as Divine Providence, then so was their productivity at low wages, as God's grace and damnation has secret ends unknown to men. Begging which was not only allowed but by Monks considered honorable, was now contemptible and the poor were so by God and thus the legalized exploitation and elected grace of the employer to his calling by God. There were differences though, as for and against big businesses and so forth.    While the Puritan wanted to work in a calling; we are forced to do so. \\"In the field of its highest development, in the United States, the pursuit of wealth, stripped of its religious and ethical meaning, tends to become associated with purely mundane passions, which often actually give it the character of sport.\\" ... \\"The next task would be to show the significance of ascetic rationalism.\\" p. 182	2005-06-01
US	52783335	RN3ZY4B9F87NO	0874810418	619409597	How to Know God: The Yoga Aphorisms of Patanjali	Books	5	11	16	N	Y	The Science of Connecting Mind & Consciousness	This is a classic work, both the aphorisms of Patanjali and the commentary of Swami Prabhavananda and Christopher Isherwood. This is a science on the connection between the mind and consciousness becomes the spiritual, the religious, the bhaki - devotional. <br /> <br />Five kinds of thought waves, which are, controlled the practice of non-attachment, which is self-mastery. Non attachment is not indifference or quietistic escapism, but the ability to be conscious of the objective self witnessing and controlling the thought waves rather than being pulled in and blinded by them and disturbing mental equanimity. <br /> <br />Ways of equanimity practice contain concentration on an object, which may take on four stages. Here we have the paradox of the Atman and Brahman, immanent and transcendent, God both within and without in the play of Prakiti or force of nature which contains the various combinations of the three gunas Tamas - inertia laziness, despair, Rajas - action, competiveness and satwic, the pure, knowledge/intellectual. What causes Brahman to fragment comes from the great cause or mahat, which is mentally categorized by Buddhi which evolves the individual ego or shamkar which produce the recording facilities five perceptions and five subtle tanmatras which produce the five earth elements - Pure consciousness covered by layers of ignorance and fragmentation. Meditation is the attempt to reverse this evolution process - devolution. The quiet mind of equanimity through concentration, producing the conditions for psychic abilities and the temptation to misuse them. <br /> <br />Also is concentration on thought waves through non attachment, to concentrate on consciousness itself, to observe our samskaras or internal habitual tendencies of attachments and aversions, our addictions and repetitive ways and bondage of reactions - all in which we attempt to be root out and destroy, which is perfect yoga, liberation from samskaras and karmas, our past motivations of actions of clinging and averting. <br /> <br />There is much more to this, but you will have to read the book to find out. This really is a fascinating study of the science of the connection between the mind and consciousness through the thoughts of the paradigm of Patanjali. For myself, a highly significant book. I can't really comment on the translation itself, I don't read Sanskrit, and I do have another translation to be read by Georg Feuerstein.	2005-05-29
US	52783335	R3PQJERNIY0G30	0517189356	362838690	Brush Up Your Shakespeare!	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A Hit, a Very Palpable Hit	This book is a great introduction to various plays of Shakespeare. Each couple of pages consists, first of a few lines of a play or sonnet, and then a few paragraphs describing the context of the scene and play, and then the meaning of the particular Elizabethan wordings and expressions. I found it took some concentrative reading that I normally do not use in reading and it conveyed some truly valuable gems of insight.     For instance on from pages 152 to 157 consisted of various Buddhistic teachings I have read from the East such as page 152, \\"That Within which Passes Show,\\" - Hamlet, Act I, scene I, observes the insight of an inner self within us that surpasses the transient show of our physical lives, the silent observer. And this is why Shakespeare could say that \\"All the world's a stage. And all the men and women merely players. They have their exits and their entrances. And one man in his time plays many parts.\\" - As You Like it. To be human one must play the many roles, as the world is the stage, while within there is a self that surpasses show.     \\"There are many more things in Heaven and Earth Horatio\\", Hamlet, Act 1, theres the world of symbols (Jung), mantras, metaphor, quantum, and spiritual, all beyond science and philosophical discursive reasonings and university education, like Marlowe and Goethe's Doctor Faustus consulting a ghost, a demonic spirit.     \\"Thinking too precisely on the event\\" from Hamlet is letting go in thinking, that is, first steering the ship, but then ceasing in thoughts to rest in mindfulness, where you become one with the object where all conscious deliberation, fears and anxieties cease. This particular problem of thinking is one many despots and tyrants have argued against democratic participatory deliberations and indecisiveness.    And the famous \\"To be or not to be\\" from Hamlet, can be interpreted in something as this: To live is to die in inertia and to die is to live by taking action against the weariness of life into the world of the unknown, the dangerous unknown, go there - that is living. Ah, but here's the rub (catch): That while our mortal life is turmoil, unbalance and hard in work in weariness, to journey to the unknown by dying is something permanent, and we do not know of anyone who has ever returned. And so it is our thinking minds, that which cause us to deliberate in stagnant conflicting thoughts, which causes fears, preventing us from the courage of seeking the unknown.    Ah, but I'm not trippingly on the tongue here, but can say that Prospero's words and later Bogarts, show this life, this world, are the mental catoregoriztations created by man (Kant) and maya (illusions) in which such stuff as dreams are made on and nature itself, not the elaborate teachings of man, are the sweet we find from adversity.	2005-05-24
US	52783335	R48TLIRKESJ56	0226467716	768676081	Moral Politics : How Liberals and Conservatives Think	Books	5	15	17	N	Y	Convincing Psychological & Linguistic Models Behind Politics	I found this book highly significant and convincing in the linguistic and psychological framework of our current political structure. This book presents the frames of ideas behind liberal and conservative thinking, the psychological models that shape the two main avenues of perception and projection into all areas of life, morals; the basis behind religion and politics. The political sides, liberal and conservative are in essence only ideas that follow from these prior ideals. And what the author frames as the two models are, the two moral ideals of the Strict Father morality and the Nurturant Parent morality. Both are opposed to each other and yet, there are variants or combinations or radial categories which are gray areas which are not so clear cut. But overall, there are these two current trends that shape our thoughts.    George Lakoff goes into each model, their traits, attributes, virtue and vices. I think he does a good job at maintaining neutrality. It is only later in his book where he identifies himself under the nurturant morality and thus a liberal and later in the book attempts to argue in his thesis in that direction.    What these models boil down to is the family morality, and that of raising children. In politics it is the government as parents, the citizens as the children. And the views on raising children are the basis of frames behind political agendas. After detailed explanations of the two models, then applications to current political issues as in abortion, gun control, education methods, crime and capital punishment, welfare, affirmative action, foreign policies and so forth are discussed according to the two models.    The conservative model represents the Strict Father Morality, which is about self-discipline, self-reliance, self-strength, your on your own, rewards and punishments which includes harsh discipline or tough love. The father takes the lead, and while treating others compassionately, he is the last word. Anotherwards life is ahierarchy, God head of Christ, God and Christ head of man, man head of woman, parents head of children, humans head of animals and the planet. And so it is a strict arrangement where the harsh laws of nature as in the natural selection, survival of the fittest is applied morally.This morality represents absolutes, therefore anything different cannot be allowed since therefore it is immoral. Rights of the individual take precedence where free market fundamentalism is concerned, while individual rights that infringe on those with economic power are considered as threats. So the upper hand lies in what is considered that \\"best,\\" the self disciplined who has gained more financially for their hard work, their hard won discipline and reward. The poor receive punishments and suffer due to their own lack of self discipline.    The liberal model represents the Nurturant Morality, which is about empathy, tolerance, degrees of relativity, flexibility, about open communication, about nurturance, tolerance, compassion and understanding. It allows differences and has vulnerability. It reneges some power to allow the other to grow on their own terms. Empathy is directed towards the unbalance of wealth and poverty, the economic framework, what is \\"fair\\" and equalitarian, also to the planet earth, animals, and all of life in general, under the ideas of free individual rights that do not interfere with the rights of others. Those with economic power that put their interests above others are considered as threats to the masses. The poor need a the same equal opportunities as the rich where it is not a matter of self discipline, but the lack of opportunities to advance in an unfair society.    I think what is so crucial here is the liberal's ability to turn to a higher objective paradigm of unity and equalitarianism outside all other paradigms. Like the conserative paradigm of morals, the fascist of power, the libertarian of unregulated liberty, the liberal, through the paradigm of unity and fairness, recognizes the validity of the conservative ideals, those of rewards and punishments, of tough love, of self-discipline, however here they are not absolutes, as they are relative within the particular culture, economic class, race, minority and so forth. So the liberal can very well be a conservative but only within the relativity within the group of fair values When it crosses the lines beyond fairness and equalitarian opportune justice, then the higher paradigm of flexibility in a non-absolute framework must be applied. And for this, I find liberal ideals of a higher evolutionary consciousness which works towards integral, holistic unity of peace and harmony, unlike the absolutes of conservatism which considers all outside its absolutes as immoral. There are conservative rules within each paradigm, but the moment circumstances of unequality and injustice apply, then there are no absolute blanket rules which apply to all paradigms. Adjustments are necessary, crucial for harmonious, peaceful existence.    What I mostly enjoyed was his methods for liberals to correct the problem they are in. That is to form their own think tanks that do what the conservatives have done; obtain new language and/or particular meanings to words that fit the liberal paradigm. In this way, they will not defend conservative driven meanings to words, agreeing or maintaining defense within their frame of reference, only to maintain the answers within the conservative created definitions, but rather to use another reasoning linguistically within a new liberal frame of reference in word definitions. This is not a matter of semantics, but rather a separate perceptional projection which relates the parent nurturant morality over the strict father morality.    I was visualizing a couple of years ago when Congress was passing around Clarke's book where questions were being raised on Bush and the Iraq question, that it would have been beneficial if it were this book, which I knowno conservative or any one changes due to a book or persuasion, but at least it could radically wake up some liberals to understand the psychology behind their ideals. People only grow only when they're ready and willing to do so, otherwise they stay put in their model, their paradigm.	2005-05-21
US	52783335	R2ONGQ3MYC9FMU	0517205742	693835372	Tales from Shakespeare: Children's Classics	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A Treasure Book	If you want to learn as a novice the tales of Shakespeare, then this is the book to read. A children's novel of his famous plays. Now to the English Shakespearean scholar this would seem like Shakespeare for dummies, but I would only partially agree. This is a great book to be introduced and gives a general framework before reading him. Even after reading this, its not an easy task trying to read Elizabethan English, which even the experts argue on some of the terms and expressions used. And so, this book lets you understand and I find its written rather well in Charles and Mary Lambs authorship. <br /> <br />After reading this book, which also make good for second, third and fourth readings, I found it much easier to absorb a recent bio on Shakespeare which was very enlightening, Will of the World by Stephen Greenblatt and also other books which attempt explanatory meanings of Elizabethan English to his plays and sonnets. Now you know what the plays are about and go from there. This is a great book, I treasure it.	2005-05-21
US	52783335	R1666V68J6AZ95	0393050572	948966865	Will in the World: How Shakespeare Became Shakespeare	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	Intriguing Bio of Elizabethan England's Creative Genius	Great biography on Shakespeare. It really makes you think what it was like to live in Elizabethan England, how brutal it was, and yet for the poor man throughout the world and in many poor American cities today it is also a tough struggle. This old English society was based on extreme hierarchy and one needed to obtain a coat of arms from inheritance or university education (Oxford or Cambridge) to become a gentleman, which was almost impossible without money in the first place. There was Protestant fundamentalists in opposition to stage plays, Catholic rebels being hunted down, tortured and executed, bear baiting arenas where they tortured bears and bulls, sicking wild dogs on them for entertainment, pubs, whorehouses, the bubonic plague and a Queen (later King James) paranoid as hell with spys and so forth.<br /><br />Stephen Greenblatt takes what limited information that is on Shakespeares life His family, acquaintances, friends, early life as a glove maker from his fathers trade, his fathers debts, his marriage to Anne Hathaway and pieces it together with many of the characters and passages from his plays. He writes of what his fellow contemporary playwrights were like, as Greene and Marlowe, and their unscrupulous and violent characters, including a written attack of Greene. This was no picnic, yet in the end, Shakespeare was financially able through both his acting and writing and real estate ventures, to retire in independence as a prominent citizen and gentleman, even then, with moving back to Stratford and then buy a house in London and the later embarassing episode of his son-in-law.<br /><br />However it wouldn't be fair to say this book is aimply a bio, because it is not, rather it is a book which interprets various plays of Shakespeare, passages, words, statements and written character lines that may or may not correlate to the external circumstances of Shakespeare's life. Such circumstances where in the death of his son, or his rocky, non-intimate marital relationship, the Elizabethan laws of marriage, the experiences of Catholic rebels who he personally knew and later came to be executed, their heads displayed on the London Bridge, his sonnetts of love for a young male noble & etc., the social etiquette and attitude of the English people relating to both himself and his plays, a wonderful book. As one reviewer on the back of the book relates, this is Stephen Greenblatt's love letter to a man we will never get to know., the Elizabethan laws of marriage, the experiences of Catholic rebels who he personally knew and later came to be executed, their heads displayed on the London Bridge, his sonnetts of love for a young male noble & etc., the social etiquette and attitude of the English people relating to both himself and his plays, a wonderful book. As one reviewer on the back of the book relates, this is Stephen Greenblatt's love letter to a man we will never get to know.	2005-05-19
US	52783335	R2CMXMV4GMG4Z8	1571743324	730100227	Physics of the Soul: The Quantum Book of Living, Dying, Reincarnation and Immortality	Books	5	73	76	N	N	Paradigm of The Quantum Monad, Jivaman, Eternal Soul	Interesting book. Here Amit Goswami attempts to validate the paradigm of a soul that survives the body eternally based on quantum physics. In this \\"monistic idealism\\" he equates the soul with the quantum monad and the Jivaman of Sri Aurobindo and the Atman in Hindu Vedic philosophy. This book is another paradigm that supposedly contains the answers to the surviving soul or quantum monad, the subtle body which enters a nonlocality (a connection of potentialities connecting every point in space an time) and carries our tendencies and phobias with us to our next reincarnation. How the purpose of life is a play or battle of two forces,  creativity and entropy    Some of the book is on quantum mechanics, how matter gets bogged down in stubborn paradoxes and quantum measurement paradox, and so his science, as in Sri Aurobindo's, is the subtle, the supramental, mental and vital experiences, a science of consciousness and nonlocality where the quantum jumps take place in webs of interdependent connections.    Thought is conveyed of the six bardos found in the Tibetan Book of the Dead and their relation to the human memory of information that dies with us at death and the quantum monad & quantum memory, which he believes carries the tendencies  and habitual patterns in each reincarnation. This of course takes us to angels and higher beings of consciousness, death yoga, karma, maya Akashic memory, techniques of meditation, creative thought verses thought, potentiality and the range of choices of actuality.And the idea of the self is all - solipsism, the ideas of how our consciousness collapses the potentialities, turning it into the reality.    I enjoyed the suggestion of three Tibetan practices of one: the death prayer or the Hindu bhakti yoga of devotion to a deity. This is usually done with a private and personal mantra.  Two: living a life of service and sacrifice, the attitude that is, is one of service and applied positive meaning. \\"Instead of looking at pain and suffering and recoiling from the, we embrace pain and suffering to relieve not any pain but the pain of humanity.\\" p. 194. In this, we mentally visualize ourselves containing all consciousness - solipsism, and the power to heal and extend love to all beings. We sacrifice ourselves in this mental capacity and breathing techniques. And Three: Jnana yoga of effortless contemplation, that of concentrating without concentrating or focusing without concentrating, the paradox of concentrative energy while relaxing your mind and this allows you to enter beyond the discursive thought processes to the silent consciousness of the observer self..     I particularly enjoyed a 4 page thought on Involution and Evolution. While in evolution we expand and raise ourselves to the whole, in involution we contract and lower to separate fragmentation in grosser levels, forgetting itself, and decreasing freedom. It is a play of consciousness where there really is no separation but rather consciousness forgets itself for the sake of play, it pretends to forget.     The last chapter of the book gives a good summary on nine interpretations of the soul and its survival and journey.	2005-05-14
US	52783335	R3JVTDMXZC2Z0J	1887161090	286969436	Are You a Conservative or a Liberal?	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	A Tool In Understanding - A Good Book	For a small book it is highly valuable with the basics in understanding of the liberal and conservative ideas. In this there are two authors, one, Bradley O'Leary - Conservative and Victor Kamber - Liberal, so the book is not bias, but fair. And in this they both argue their view on some of the major issues - very briefly that is, but enough for you to get the general ideas. <br /> <br />This book comes with three separate quizzes in determining where you stand. I stood a liberal before the book and after the quizzes I again stand somewhere between liberal and moderate liberal. I think that every book that fairly compares these two models of thought exposes the invalidity of conservative thinking and for this a book like this threatens their morality based on absolutism. <br /> <br />Also is a wonderful short essay on both venues of thought and its comparison to libertarianism, which I believe is much closer to conservatism. <br /> <br />I like this book enough to purchase a dozen or so copies and hand them out to reasonable people I care about and enjoy talking with. As small as this book is, it really is a classifier and eye opener, which removes much of the thoughtless cloud of the media where thousands watch and have not a clear conception of the differences between such thought systems. <br /> <br />Another book that is much more detailed and goes into the psychological models between conservatives and liberals is \\"Moral Politics\\" by George Lakoff, which I highly recommend.	2005-05-14
US	52783335	R3Q01WI8P7KTDP	0964629100	490485625	The Dimensional Structure of Consciousness: A Physical Basis for Immaterialism	Books	5	14	17	N	Y	Paradigm of Observational Consciousness	A very interesting book. Written by a layman and there are three quotes of recommendation by spiritual leaders on the back. This right away intrigued me, as it reminds me of other authors of physics who recognize the religious or spiritual nature of science. In this book, Avery relates how our senses appear as separate dimensions, dimensions that share the same area of consciousness or interactions with light infiltrating all in a different way in itself. <br /> <br />I found interesting is Avery's explanation of the quantum jump or leap to a far distance. In that it can only land at certain particular points, leaving a tunnel of space to question where this particle was traveling at what time? But only the locational points can be observed. What Avery does not point out is the idea I have read by David Bohm, and I'm sure a lot of others, that there may be no traveling at all, no tunnel, but a non-locality, a space-free, time-free dimension where the quantum jump, or illusionary jump, takes place. <br /> <br />The interesting thing here is the dimensions spoken of remind me of Rupert Sheldrake's morphic fields. Although there are large amounts of different fields, while the dimensions here spoken of are 6 and in addition, the is not about formative causation in morphic resonance. So is dimensions, touch, taste, sight, hear, think, and this observer consciousness, which Avery believes to be another dimension. \\"Trying to see or hear life is very much like a single cell trying to \\"feel\\" sound or light. Life in observers can be experienced only when experience is not limited to perception.\\" p. 98. And then he finds that all of these 6 dimensions, to be recognized at once, have to all enter this \\"one\\" consciousness\\" to be shared by all of us, the collective. The paradox here is the collective in just one consciousness. Now it stands to reason, logically, that solipsism is the only logical answer. Solipsism is the belief that you, you reading this, is the only reality, real and only one consciousness, the rest are created by your mind and imagination. Your reality is only you . . no you, no reality, no consciousness. <br /> <br />With this problem of solipsism, Avery comes up with an interesting answer for his paradigm. It is that the collective, that is, all the people, are evolving, as in evolutionary growth, into a society that shares all of its information, creating a one schematic for information patterning, a one collective screen or perception (not a perceptional or subjective experience as much as a collective objective) to pattern and order the informational facts. In turn, this will be the answer to quantum interpretation of all consciousness as one. <br /> <br />\\"As human civilization evolves, direct perceptual experience becomes less a part of consciousness as a whole. We learn more about the world through other people, and observational experience becomes increasingly important. We talk, read books, watch moves, and gain information through electronic technology. We use the telephone, listen to radio, and watch the world on television. Observers become more important than objects. Experience through others becomes less distant; potential perception becomes a form of actual experience. You or I do not have to be there to experience what is happening in the world. We experience Asia, Africa, and the far side of the moon without ever perceiving it. Individual experience becomes more and more absorbed in collective experience, the perspective of actual perception is factored out along with that of potential perception. The quantum screen appears more and more like a point on a six-dimensional matrix. We each see ourselves individually as small parts of a greater collective whole.\\" p100 <br /> <br />\\"Western civilization has built an expanding universe within the human mind. The world of science is human imagination, carefully contained in an explosion of space and time, balanced by mass. Science creates what it discovers. At a small corner and to the side is the life process, a cross section of life itself. The great weakness in science is that it is contained at all and cannot see itself as such. it cannot go outside without getting cold.\\" p. 104	2005-05-11
US	52783335	R2LKEN675MDGNP	0394729471	750843695	How Can I Help?: Stories and Reflections on Service	Books	5	17	21	N	N	Behind Our Roles To Insight Of A Larger Order Of Objectivity	An excellent book on helping ourselves which in turn act in helping others in a life of service. The awareness first must be found in ourselves before we can exercise the compassion for others. It is here we gain insight into a larger order of lawfulness we cannot understand rationally but which nevertheless resonates within. Compassion becomes an increasingly automatic response.    Ideas conveyed rest in the process of ambiguity and paradox in the realm of not knowing, resting in mystery. Living in the game of subjectivity, we always remain in touch with the silent observer, the witness self in calm abiding and when caught up in subjectivity to see the absurdity of the game and using absurd comedy to deal with it. We end up trusting in a larger pattern beyond the absurd surface world of our actions. We see the truth in uncertainty, we maintain the Zen beginner's mind. We work on ourselves as a vehicle for our higher selves. And we recognize that all of us have a flag to wave which is the folly of our human existence. We are conscious of our lack of integrity while trying to convince others, as we see ourselves from the outside as the silent witness. We see compassion and peace as the only way to make peace in everything we do and are in touch with the quiet self behind all our subjective roles, behind all the thinking, actions and experiences. We see the polarization's of differences as our habits of thinking, seeing beyond the circle of opposites knowing that our mind acts in Gestalt as it perceives and decides in categorizing what is essentially neutral information.     The way to compassion is simply to just listen, stop thinking, stop speaking and listen. be the observer. Its our reactions that determine our pains and sufferings as opposed to the happenings themselves. We acknowledge our weaknesses and refrain from blinding ourselves in subjectivity. Its our dispassionate need as the observer, the we see our own reactions from the view as an outsider watching our reactions as habitual patterns our physical and mental beings perform.    Our thoughts act as clouds that pass by and we can be aware of this if we can gain the ability to observe them as an outside consciousness, alert to when we get sucked up in subjectivity. To rest in awareness in ourselves, with company, allowing and helping others to find themselves. The sage helps the ten thousand things find their own nature. We move away from viewing the world strictly in concepts and recognize the intellect blinds intuitive awareness. We see our self image as a prison we create, roles to survive in this game of life but also a prison for us if we fail to find our higher objective observer selves. We need our roles to survive as humans and communicate with one another but in order not to get trapped in them we have to enter behind our roles out of the blindness.    \\"The most familiar models of who we are - father and daughter, doctor and patient, helper and helped - often turn out to be major obstacles to the expression of our caring instincts; they limit the full measure of what we have to offer one another . . they are delusions of separateness. Our task is to free our circle of compassion to embrace all living creatures and the whole nature in its beauty . . \\" p.20	2005-04-30
US	52783335	RG756SBEDF85L	0671732498	422509323	A Separate Reality	Books	5	65	74	N	Y	To "See" =  Alone In The World With Nothing But Folly.	This book is the sequel to the first book \\"The Teachings of Don Juan: A Yaqui Way of Knowledge\\" and is just as meaningful and profound. The idea of spirituality under the Yaqui Indian paradigm, like other esoteric perceptions, conveys a non-ordinary reality where rationalizations and human explanations act as superficiality.<br /><br />\\"Once a man learns how to \\"see\\" he finds himself alone in the world with nothing but folly.\\" p. 81 Anotherwards, all the world is a stage and everything we do are roles we act. We don't leave the world as a hermit because we don't willfully abandon ourselves, but instead we recognize the superficial roles we are required to play as human beings and in turn, rest in our silent self, the silent observer who \\"sees\\" this world as a series of necessary folly and superficiality and learns to to limit mental chatter, thinking and rationalizing and to start listening.<br /><br />This book reminds me of Timothy Leary's explanation of reimprinting. Each time one \\"trips,\\" he takes a trip beyond static reality to the dynamic flow and each time he returns he takes an additional snapshot and reimprints as a baby does when born. Each imprint is added to the previous imprints, as well as reinterpreting former imprints. And so, when Don Juan uses the power of suggestions with Carlos Castaneda and consensus is agreed, the dynamic affect under hallucinogens conform to such ideas which are compounded during the reimprinting stages back to normal reality. And so, peyote consists of an entity called Mescalito and magic mushroom smoke produces encounters with allies.<br /><br />In turn, as with many Eastern mediators, the awareness grows of the silent observer self beyond the superficial ego self we are required to live through as human beings. We see the folly of human existence and become detached while simultaneously maintaining our lives active in this world, not in inertia, but with the paradox of \\"seeing\\" our real silent witness selves and using our superficial roles with more artistic and less attachment.<br /><br />One learns to act like a warrior by acting, not by talking.\\" p 144 \\"If a man sees he doesn't have to live like a warrior, or like anything else, for he can see things as they really are and direct his life accordingly.\\" p 149 \\"Seeing dispelled the illusion of victory, or defeat, or suffering.\\" p. 138 \\"Nothing of what I had done in my lie was really worthy of that last ultimate emphasis so I had nothing to think about. That was an exquisite realization.\\" p. 243\\"Worry and think before you make a decision, but once you make it, be on your way free from worries or thoughts . . that's the warrior way.\\" p. 47 Don Juan teaches learning how not to think, silencing the mind and learning to listen.<br /><br />I also enjoyed how Don Juan considered much of the Tibetan Book of The Dead as \\"crap.\\" And yet, one can say the same thing about his Yaqui Indian Sorcerer interpretation of non-ordinary reality. Yet both paradigms, Tibetan and Yaqui acknowledge the silent observer, the mental chatter, and the need to listen without fear in reality of clarity beyond mental conceptions.our superficial roles with more artistic and less attachment. <br /> <br />One learns to act like a warrior by acting, not by talking.\\" p 144 \\"If a man sees he doesn't have to live like a warrior, or like anything else, for he can see things as they really are and direct his life accordingly.\\" p 149 \\"Seeing dispelled the illusion of victory, or defeat, or suffering.\\" p. 138 \\"Nothing of what I had done in my lie was really worthy of that last ultimate emphasis so I had nothing to think about. That was an exquisite realization.\\" p. 243\\"Worry and think before you make a decision, but once you make it, be on your way free from worries or thoughts . . that's the warrior way.\\" p. 47 Don Juan teaches learning how not to think, silencing the mind and learning to listen. <br /> <br />I also enjoyed how Don Juan considered much of the Tibetan Book of The Dead as \\"crap.\\" And yet, one can say the same thing about his Yaqui Indian Sorcerer interpretation of non-ordinary reality. Yet both paradigms, Tibetan and Yaqui acknowledge the silent observer, the mental chatter, and the need to listen without fear in reality of clarity beyond mental conceptions. <br />	2005-04-28
US	52783335	R17WWDF04WN4ST	0671600419	891050513	The Teachings of Don Juan: A Yaqui Way of Knowledge	Books	5	11	15	N	Y	Primitive But Profound: A Study in Anthropology	Fascinating anthropomorphic study. The book consists of various diary entrees of Carlos Casaneda  encounters with an elderly Indian Yaqui Sorcerer who takes him under his wing and makes him an apprentice to ancient secret teachings that paradoxically contain primitive ideas and rituals with profound concepts. This to be \\"a man of knowledge.\\".This book is truly a cultural-religious-spiritual study before the hippy, Leary, Pranskter movements. I think most would agree it is a profound study of both ordinary and non-ordinary realities. What makes this so interesting is the simplicity of a primitive culture that contains hidden variables of deep meanings  which are beyond our modern superficial Western culture that brags of it's technology and materialisms. We may have the sciences to manipulate raw materials but we are seriously lacking.<br /><br />In this book, there are pre-agreements made directly and alluded to before experimentation using three separate hallucinatory plants; Jimpson Weed, Peyote and Mushrooms, each plant representing a very different perception of non-ordinary reality, from power and ally to helper. The ideas agreed on are done with the skill of Don Juan, where one expects a particular paradigm prior to ingestion, truly psychology at work. If such teachings were not given special prior consensus than interpretations would be entirely different. The whole process of teaching takes much time - years-  and there are serious ritual preparations involved.<br /><br />The majority of the book contains diary entries, while the later is a structural analysis of the events. It is all written very well and surprising when reading the second portion how intense all the ideas really are. Now this book is the first of a series of 15 books that further these teachings. While to some the idea of speaking to a Mescalito to show one the right way, to turning into a crow or fighting off an enemy trying to take your soul may see absurd or insignificant superstition but the deeper implications of the mind here are assessed and there is a psychology that ventures in deeper plains than mere doctrinal formulations and surface meanings.	2005-04-19
US	52783335	R1MUUGDKGSQLWQ	0520085841	526903755	The Cult of Information: A Neo-Luddite Treatise on High-Tech, Artificial Intelligence, and the True Art of Thinking	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Serious Wiring Difference; Ideas & Insight Are NonBinary	Good information that reminds us that computers think much differently than humans. They use information and process it in structured binary codes which can produce not only mathematics, but replicas of music, art and video. So it appears that robots and thinking based on bits of information is the same as humans. But what Rozak convincingly employs is that the human brain is wired much differently.     In this he shows that the human mind gains insight from various nonstructured areas that come together where we gain flashes of insight with much unpredictability, while computer random chips do the very opposite by reducing the preformulated bits of information, restricting one of multiple answers. So there is a tremendous difference in the wiring of the human mind and the computer processor, the human far more complex and superior.    What Roszak brings out is the loss of clarity and distinction of such differences and the commercialism and profit in elevating the idea that information is the same as human thinking. And yet it is human ideas that act as prerequisite for the shaping of the information to fit a particular paradigm.    Ideas create information, not the other way around. Every fact grows from an idea; it is the answer to a question we could not ask in the first place if an idea had not been invented which isolated some portion of the world, make it important, focused our attention, and stimulated inquiry. p. 105    What happens then, when we blur the distinction between ideas and information and teach children that information processing is the basis of thought? Or when we set about building an \\"information economy:\\" which spends more and more of its resources accumulating and processing facts? For one thing, we buy even deeper the substructures of ideas on which information stands, placing them further from critical reflection. For example, we begin to pay more attention to \\"economic indicators\\" - which are always convenient, simple-looking numbers -than to the assumptions about work, wealth, and well-being which underlie economic policy. Indeed, our orthodox economic science is awash in a flood of statistical figments that server mainly to obfuscate basic questions of value, purpose and justice. What contribution has the computer make to this situation? It has raised the flood level, pouring out misleading and distracting information from every government agency and corporate boardroom. but even more ironically, the hard focus on information which the computer encourages must in time have the effect of crowding out new ideas, which are the intellectual source that generates facts. In the long run, no ideas, no information.\\" pp. 109-107    Now the book goes into the history of computers and is somewhat outdated, published in the mid 1980's and a lot has changed since then, however this does not take away from the pervious history of computer technology and the message of major differences between computer logic compared to human insight, as well as the differences between memory, processing and creation of new ideas.	2005-04-14
US	52783335	R1ZFF4J7HKRSSX	1570625190	568909588	The Tao of Physics: An Exploration of the Parallels between Modern Physics and Eastern Mysticism (25th Anniversary Edition)	Books	5	16	21	N	N	Interconnected Dynamic Universe Not Consisting of Absolutes	This has been one of my favorite books. I have found it adequately convincing, a major breakthrough, in acknowledging the value and credibility of Newtonian physics and previous breakdown of matter found in the ancient Greek Atomists and in its inadequecy and limits where one goes into the theory of relativity and quantum physics, exposing matter in that there is no fundamental matter or \\"stuff\\" that the world is made of, that all matter, both organic and inorganic is made from energy, energy that acts as a process. The implications of this is highly signficant. We are all processes and in reality each thing is a matter of relations to the whole, a web of relational processes interconnected, interdependent upon other process, which are interdependent on others, all in a \\"one\\" unified whole. This is the parallel of Western physics and Eastern mysticism and there is ample proof in Capras book. This is the meaning of pragmatism and here it is in science itself in that reality consists of various related processes that are all interdependent upon one another. There are no absolutes, only various meanings which relate to one another. It is the human mind that fragments in categorizations. And this realization can apply not just to science and spiritual insight but to our entire sociological, ecological, psychological perceptions, a transformation of the world as we currently know it.    Parallels are made in areas of Hinduism, Buddhism, Taoism, Zen and of Chinese thoughts in differentiations, as in the yin and yang processes, two sides of one coin, each side containing the seed of the other, how I-Ching, as in quantum physics, consists of a series of processes rather than absolutes and axioms. The point is not accidental similarity, but the fact that both modern physics and ancient Chinese thought consider change and transformation as the primary aspect of nature and see the structures as symmetries generated by the changes as secondary.    Such ideas are beyond language, outside the opposites in a unity of all things. Interesting how the particle cannot be determined but only within a wave pattern, therefore beyond the world of opposites, as it cannot be determined precisely as an absolute. The observation of the atomic particle is only measured in connecting the processes of preparation and movement.    The position of an object in space can only be defined relative to some other object, the same holds true for all teachings. The relativity theory has shown that there is no absolute measurements of space and time, as the length of an object depends on its motion relative to the observer and it changes with the velocity that motion. Space and time are reduced to the subjective role of the elements of the language used by the particular observer. In quantum physics observation, the position of the observer determines the results of the what is observed, the observer becomes an active participant as the observer and the observed become one.    It is revealed that the universe is dynamic, all moving, changing energy in flux, in an expanding universe in the theory of general relativity where curved space can be visualized as dots on a balloon, as the universe expands the galaxies all move away from each other. Such are the precepts of Eastern mysticism, how form comes from emptiness can be seen in the concept of the quantum field which can take of particles, the conception of physical things as transient manifestations of an underlying fundamental entity, illusory, beyond all concepts by the East, conceptualized in quantum who attempt to unify in a unified field theory, empty and formless.The field is a continuum which is present everywhere in space and yet in its particle aspect has a discontinuous granular structure, two contradictory concepts unified to be different aspects of the same dynamic reality, transforming themselves endlessly into one another. Such dynamic movement is seen as the cosmic dance in Hindu's god Shiva, all consisting of various moving processes.    In this there are patterns or quark symmetries which correspond with ancient Greece in Pythagorean teachings of mathematical harmony, beauty and perfection, however the East goes beyond conceptions into symbols, no fundamentals playing a major role in their philosophy.    Rather then separate particles and waves that act upon one another, there is an interdependence, a deeper connection of unity, each in someway preserving its individual existence in perfect harmony with all the rest. . Our explanations act as karma, bound and trapped in our conceptual network.    It is here Capra ends his book on the S-matrix theory and the bootstrap hypothesis, which states that the world cannot be understood as an assemblage of entities which cannot be analyzed further. In the new world view, the universe is seen as dynamic web of interrelated events. None of the properties of any part of this web is fundamental; they all follow from the properties of the other parts and the overall consistency of their mutual interrelations determines the structure of the entire web.    Now there is much said in this book in electrodynamics, in the technical processes of particle collisions and so forth that perhaps go beyond the layman's mind of understanding, nevertheless the points are made and in the second addition afterward there is a good write up on Geoffrey Chew of the bootstrap idea and unifying force of S-matrix theory, in holomovement described by David Bohm and in the discrepancy of Einstein's EPR experiment, which proved that particles are unifying in wholeness far beyond what Einstein saw as could only travel faster than the speed of light, where here it did not have to travel, but exhibited the properties of being connected.	2005-04-02
US	52783335	R1BFRNQRJMYQ04	0553212168	569503661	The Brothers Karamazov (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	Questions of Psychological and Theological Nature	A beneficial classic in theological and psychological issues. My copy is 1045 pages, so it took me a week and a half to finish while on a vacation. There's no doubt in my opinion in Dostoevsky's remarkable ability to convey each character's psychological makeup, each perceiving their situations slanted from their particular viewpoints, some mildly, others to the extreme, distorting facts with personal objectives.<br /><br />The story is about three brothers, a fourth illegitimate child and brother, the father, two women who play key roles and the murder of the father. The other main characters who play key roles in this story are also described in detail by Dostoeovsky. However, the key elements of this story relate into the psychological and theological issues raised.<br /><br />The story, which is about three brothers and their fathers murder, enters into the psychology of each character relating to Dostoevsky and the question of God. One of the more important chapters is that entitled \\"The Grand Inquisitor.\\" In this chapter Ivan relates a Christ as teaching a Christianity which equals radical absolute freedom, which differs sharply from the traditional interpretation of Christ. Here Ivan interprets the Grand Inquisitor, the Cardinal, as the representative of the Church hierarchy as the three areas rejected by Christ in the desert offered him after his baptism. And so the Grand Inquisitor is the teacher of miracles, mystery and authority, which are the absolute and necessary tools needed to unify humanity, in that spiritual bread alone will never unify the world, while physical bread will.<br /><br />Now in this, Ivan argues that despite the church leaders defined as power mongers, there are always those few that are ascetic sincere God-fearers who in their journey discover the empty logic of God in this absurd world of suffering, who see the incongruity and futile attempt of the radical freedom Christ offered and rejection of mystery, miracle and human authority,and yet instead of giving up they maintain their authority in the visage to help humanity. For in doing this despite their disbelief, they unify humanity. Although such unification is in ignorance, it is also in happiness and for their best interest, while the minority, the authoritative church leaders, suffer in the true knowledge of the existential angst of reality living in this world and the empty and meaningless promises of a future world after death and immortality of the soul and so called true meanings of justice and good.<br /><br />Dimitry, the oldest brother, is the sensualist like the father, a reveler and passionate man with outbursts of uncontrolled emotions and violent actions and yet contains honor and in someway converts himself into believing in a God of the earth that retains morals of personal and national honor. Ivan is the skeptic who borders from atheism to theism, as he accepts God but not his world, for the suffering of innocent children and other such absurdities. Alyosha, the youngest, is Dostoevsky's hero, also a man who borders in belief and non belief in God, joining a monastery and later leaving and after the the death and decay or corruption of the dead body of his monastery teacher, the elder's Zosima, he begins questioning both God and the world his brother Ivan cannot accept. But Alyosha is the hero in that he is not Ivan, who represents the new man of intellectual existential rationalism and emptiness, as Ivan was said to say that since there is no God, or that the God humanity worships is not real, then everything is permitted, which of course eliminates  universal moral codes. But Ivan's conscious battles him in this to the end. His struggle was more than between logic and the thirst for life into a theological struggle with the extreme tension of indifference and a form of atheism or disbelief with the ideas of the divine in the good and justice, which makes this suffering world absurd, so who or what truly is God? Ivan states, \\"I accept God, but I refuse to accept this world. . . My Euclidean mind cannot accept this world\\".<br /><br />While Alyosha battle was far less extreme and the hero who attempts to unify people without the traditional belief in God or Christianity, but in a humanistic form which contains the tension of doubt and belief, with love for the earth, as instructed by the elder Zosima, to kiss and shed tears for the earth, to become one with it, perhaps evening sharing in its sins as the Jesus kisses the cardinal in Ivan's tale of the Grand Inquisitor. The character of Alyosha starts out strong in the novel but his character fades in the end in strength and clarity. The novel itself goes into other main characters who play key roles in this story.<br /><br />For Dostoevsky, God is a not the benevolent but a condition of tension, from ecstasy to pain. It seems that in his personal life he was an atheist who after some years of imprisonment and hard labor in Siberia, found a faith in a humanistic version of Christianity which borders on the tensions of the incongruities that permeate the questions of justice and God.	2005-03-26
US	52783335	R3LXYXXF9E6P90	1882591062	641158048	Embracing Ourselves: The Voice Dialogue Manual	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Excellent Method in Self Awareness	Excellent book. The book does not directly explain at first what it is trying to entail,  but as the reader digresses through the various voice dialogues with the interviewer or facilitator, the development of the larger picture is perceived. And I must say, this particular model has stuck with me for quite some time in many other books and teachings I have read, as well as personally experienced in my life. This book really does convey a rather substantial paradgm of human psychology.<br /><br />The ideas conveyed in this book is that of each individual consists of multiple energies or self personalities, each conveying a different part of ourselves. With such voice dialogues, the awareness level of our consciousness increases, our aware ego or observer ego has the ability to gain awareness and perceive silent separateness from our divided energies. We become able to bring or higher selves to obtain an observer's view of our various selves, both the energies we use to control and depend on, as well as those we repress and disown.  Anotherwards, it opens us up in awareness to ourselves. We become aware of our hidden observer where we can objectively view all of our different energy patterns or personalities which we use and depend on and those we reject and disown.<br /><br />What is conveyed is how we are to cease repressing our disowned selves, by honoring and listening to such demonic parts of ourselves, while at the same time, continuing to let our positive energies that we currently use to guide us to continually do so. Throughout the book conversations are conveyed which portray the most common various personalities most of us have.<br /><br />At the end of the book, the last chapter has a wonderful illustration on Greek mythology and the parallel of a disowned personality, as in the case of Apollo disowning Dionysus and the story of King Pentheus and his denial and disowning of the new god, Dionysus and the disastrous outcome from repressing and disowning this new god.s new god.	2005-03-21
US	52783335	R1NU9ENA7SKEU4	1852740809	807571666	Paul Brunton: Essential Readings	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Profound Insight - Spiritual, Practical and Philosophical	Not knowing what to expect from this book, I was entirely impressed at the clarity and insight contained herein and found it rather profound. I also found much similarity with many later authors I have read, who no doubt obtained their thoughts from either Brunton or his influences. I now must to do some amazon shopping for more of his books, which these essays are originally from, that and his posthumous works.    The first essay is on an account of spending the night inside the King's chamber in an Egyptian pyramid with spiritual visions and an astral body experience, psychic cord and all. And it's written as a novel, very good and totally enjoyable. A very good writer, really interesting.    One of the essays is on what Brunton calls the Overself, the eternal part of man that bridges the gap between his ego and the universal mind or world-mind, or collective consciousness. This is a part of every one individually connecting collectively. In this essay, there is a strong similarity to the author Wayne Dyer, in his book, \\"A Spiritual Solution For Every Problem.\\" It is here Brunton relates to cease the mental activity of anxiety and over analyzing to that of initial effort and then letting go, trusting in the Overself, (Dyer would say Universe or God). I've read this same idea too by the Tantric Buddhist, T. Lobsang Rampa and other authors. Brunton also mentions the white light (as found in Tibetan Buddhist writings called the practice of Phowa), to visualize in raising one's and others awareness.    I really enjoyed Brunton's essay on the birth of the universe. Here Brunton, like Aristotle, rejects Plato's eternal world of unchanging forms behind our world of senses. With Aristotle, the supreme reality is the Unmoved Mover which causes movement from its essence of pure actuality - pure thought. This in turn produces forms or seeds which contain potentiality of individual forms. With Brunton, there exists a formless unmoving Mind which contains potentiality of the World-Mind, which is then followed by the World-Idea which produces the Overself (a collective within all individuals), which then produces a part of itself as an individual, the Ego.    \\"The Mind's first expression is the Void. The second and succeeding is the Light, that is, the World-Mind. This is followed by the third, the World-Idea. Finally comes the fourth, manifestation of the world itself.\\" p. 173    \\"The Supreme Godhead is unindividualized. The World-Mind is individualated (but not personalized) into emanated Overselves. The Overself is an individual, but not a person. The ego is personal.\\" p. 173    Brunton appears to agree with the ancient Greek metaphysicist Anaxagoras, who taught the universe as a Mind that rules the world, a universal mind or world-mind, which is based on both our power reason, the higher part of man and with Brunton, the addition of mystical awareness in nonconceptual thinking. Here the Universe retains karmic memories of previous changes which act as potentialities towards future changes. It is here the spontaneous inspiration of the poet, the creator, and such the world mind or collective intelligence through imagination enfolds an infinite array of order from karmic memories. Such karmic memories are from previous forms that act casually toward future forms through imaginative infinite possibilities, as Aristotle's universe of potentiality, the seed which contains the potential of later forms. The Universe, being eternal, has no beginning and no end but always was and is and changes from it's potentialities as opposed to conforming to some type of eternal forms. This essay has an amazing likeness to the nuclear physicist, David Bohm, in his book entitled, \\"Wholeness and The Implicate Order.\\" In this, book, Bohm speaks of what Brunton does, that is, a formless universe based on thought, an intelligence which enfolds and unfolds into itself into an infinite array of subsystems or autonomous sub-totalities which enfold into each other; thus the acausal attributes of quantum physics.    \\"It would be a mistake to consider the World-Mind as one entity with the Mind as another separate from it. It would be truer to consider World-Mind as the active function of the Mind. Mind cannot be separated from its powers. The two are one. In its quiescent state it is simply Mind. In its active state is is World-Mind.\\" p. 174    The Mind is not the Ever-Becoming but a virtual void in that there are no forms of external physical existence and no differences in mental existence, but an emptiness, a nothing - Pure Thought. \\"It is out of this empty Thought that the fullness of the universe has paradoxically evolved. Hence it is said that the world's reality is secondary whereas Mind's reality is primary. In the Void the hidden oneness of things is disengaged fro the things themselves.\\" p. 177    The second half of the book contains diverse bits from his 16 volumes of posthumous works, some quoted above, but here only a fractional portion and very much intriguing, written in sort of aphorisms, such as Wittgenstein, Nietzsche and Thomas Merton, these all such different types of thinkers. In Brunton's case, the words are written clear and meaningful, understandable and significantly profound. There is also too many insights to write about here, all worth the time to read and contemplate. Excellent book.	2005-03-10
US	52783335	RQA6B04MRU5C5	0061310085	697902330	The Greek Philosophers: From Thales to Aristotle	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Lucid, Concise with Simplicity - Excellent Reading	This has been the most lucid and concise book on Greek philosophy that I have so far read. In a short 168 pages, the essence of the pre-Socratic and post eras of Greek thought is revealed in both as a refresher from other sources and in additional clarifying points. Definitely beneficial in gaining the grasp of ancient Greek thought.    Guthrie starts out explaining the division of philosophers into the materialists or matter philosophers and the teleologists or form philosophers. The Ionian or Milesian School attempted at a scientific explanation represented by Thales, Anaximander and Anaximenes. It was Thales who taught that the world was made from water and moisture, while Anaximander saw it as a warring of many opposites, and unlike Pythagoreans - of no distinctions, no limitations, the earth as a sphere resting on nothing. And Anaximenes.taught the primary substance of the world was air. All had various ideas on explaining movement.    The Pythagoreans came from an Italian school, as opposed to the Ionian, and was a religious brotherhood defining reality as a combination of substances in a harmonious blend based on mathematics, and discovered the mathematics to musical arrangement. The believed in the immortality and transmigration of the soul, the kinship with nature, the earth as an organism, a kind of pantheism. So it was the limit put on the limitless that arranged and harmonized nature by numerical system, a ruling principle, the meaning of the good - a state of harmonia.    The next philosopher in succession was Heraclitus who criticized the others in their search for facts, teaching that the substance of the world was never a still fact, but was fire, that everything must be destroyed to be born, that all things are in constant motion, in flux, rejecting the peaceful and harmonious world of opposites taught by the Pythagoreans. Nothing was constant, universal and eternal, all was in constant temporal states.    Parmenides taught the opposite, in that movement was impossible, for there was no such thing as empty space, and the whole of reality consisted of a single, motionless and unchanging substance. Such reality was non-sensible, only to be reached by thought.    The pluralists consisted of Empedocles, Anaxogoras and Democritus. Empedocles taught similar to the Pythagoreans that the world was a variety of harmonious combinations of the four root substances of earth, water, air and fire. He also included the ingredients of love and strife in a materialistic way. Anaxogoras, using a atomic theory, believed in a moving cause apart from the matter into a collective mind which rules the world, a mind behind the universe which governs and orders its changes. The atomic theory was fully attributed to Democritus and possibly Leucippusa. The atomic view had the problem of movement which needed empty space. While later Epicurus took up gravity as a reason, it was a retrograde step and Democritius was thinking more clearly when he saw that in infinite space the conception of up or down had no meaning.    Next comes the sophists and it was Protagoras that taught pragmatism, that while there is no opinion that is truer, there are those that can be better, better in the sense of the individual in unifying harmony with the majority or collective. However, the sophists endorsed a severe relativity and values became choices of multiple word definitions chosen to each particular argument. Right and wrong, wisdom, and justice and goodness became nothing but names. And so it was Socrates that came up with a method to acquire arete, efficiency and excellence in the trade or occupation one does.This method consisted of inductive argument and general definition, that is exposing the false definitions and replacing them with the common meaning to the particular word or value. It was then that not an absolute was established, but rather an a higher level of reasoning in a continuous, advanced inquiry.    Plato, speaking of Socrates, tookthe ever moving flux of Heraclitus and the ever still unchanging world of Parmenides into a two world system, the world of the senses and the world of eternal ideas or forms. Thus individualism could be curbed and collective agreement could be established for the survival of the polis or city-state. He also incorporates the ideas of Pythagoreans' immortality and transmigration of the soul and the process of recollection. He taught dialectical thinking but beyond that used myth to provide for regions beyond such explanations. Virtue or efficiency and excellence is knowledge, knowledge needed to fully excel.    Guthrie next goes into an explanation of the Republic and government with the three parts of an individual and three classes of people and then into the Laws. The classes consisted of the ruling party and the soldier party, both with censorship and undemocratic authority but not able to own private property and of a poorer nature. Those that ruled did so out of a service, not out of a luxury or desires. It was the masses or working class that obeyed but the only ones who had the ability to gain riches.    Aristotle is then described in his rejection of the Platonic world of ideas and his idea of the universe, relying on the mental process or reason, common principles, the idea of immanent form and the conception of potentiality applying that to the problem of motion. He arrived at the concept of God as the Unmoved Mover, motionless, yet caused movement from actuality from engagement of eternal thought activity of the pure mind, which is life. This then brought motion and potentiality. More is mentioned on ethics, classes of the good by habits, man being a political animal is the answer over the world of ideas, and paradoxically states that divine reason can not be fully attained by man and yet it is foolish to emulate the gods and poets, but man should aim at his fullest potentiality. The ergon of every creature is to attain its own forma and perform its proper activity. The activity of mind is life.	2005-03-09
US	52783335	R2Q7MQKR3RTXU9	019289322X	849373642	The Great Philosophers: An Introduction to Western Philosophy	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Lucid, Short and Concise - Great Intro to Western Philosophy	Excellent introduction to Western philosophy. The best intro I have read so far that defines the main thoughts with lucidity. The reason why this book is so valuable is that it is written from transcripts from a British television show. The transcripts were then edited, abridged and revamped for clarity. And they are really lucid. Each essay is a conversation of two persons, Brian Magee and another person expertise on the particular philosopher being discussed. So the entire book is done in dialogs, which I find similar to another beneficial book from television dialogues on human consciousness, Thinking Allowed, by Jeffrey Mishlove. This book by Brian Magee pretty much takes the the major Western philosophical thought within 350 pages, lucid and direct. <br /> <br />The list of philosophers being discussed are Plato, Aristotle, Medieval Philosophy of St. Augustine. and Thomas Aquinas, Descartes, Spinoza and Lebnitz, Locke and Berkeley, Hume, Kant, Hegel and Marx, Schopenhauer Nietzsche, Husserl, Heidegger, Sartre and Modern Existentialism, Pierce, James, Dewey and American Pragmatism, Frege, Russell Ayer and Modern Logic and Wittgenstein. <br /> <br />From Plato's theory of forms, that is, the transient, changing world of flux and appearances and the fixed, eternal world of perfect forms.to Aristotle's inquiry of substance behind the surface of empirical observation, inquiry to what is the real meaning of what is existence. I really enjoyed the explanations of Hegel and Marx's replacement of materialism within the same historical philosophy and Wittgenstein's linguistic determination of meanings. It also clarified Heidegger's difference from Husserl's idea of mind direction or intention to that of unconscious involvement inside the actions, whether intention is employed or not. and the idea that Sartre attempted to place Heidegger's idea in the Cartesian means of Husserl. Nietzsche's attack on four main traditions, against Socratic inquiry in favor of more instinctual drives, a law unto themselves. Great discussion on Schopenhauer's similarity to Buddhist underlying unity of reality but with a pessimist view. <br /> <br />A lot more information, lucid, short and concise. Great book.	2005-03-08
US	52783335	R2BW0XEPYRIKCF	0844669121	794137195	Being and Nothingness	Books	4	8	14	N	N	Sartre's Cartesian View of Heidegger - Back to Husserl	From a discussion with Brian Magee and Hubert Dreyfuss in the book entitled, The Great Philosophers, An Introduction to Western Philosophy, on page 275, the following: <br /> <br />Sartre started out as a Husserlian, an d as a phenomenologist he wrote a good novel called Nausea, which is a first-person description of a person's world breaking down. Then he read Heidegger and was converted to what he thought was Heideggerian existentialism. But as a Husserlian and a Frenchman he felt he had to fix up Heidegger and make him more Cartesian. So he starts with the individual conscious subject, but writes about Death, Anxiety, In authenticity, Being and Nothing - all the things that Heidegger talks about. The result, Being and Nothingness, is a brilliant misunderstanding of Heidegger's Being and Time. If the story that we've been telling is right, Heidegger was precisely trying to free us from our Cartesian assumptions. When I went to visit Heidegger he had Being and Nothingness on his desk, in German translation, and I said, \\"So you're reading Sartre?, and He responded, \\"How can I even begin to read this muck?\\" (His word was 'Dreck'.) That's pretty strong, but I think accurate, since if you treat Heidegger as if he were talking about subjects you turn him back into Husserl. What Sartre wrote was an edifying existentialist version of Husserl. Sartre's for-itself (consciousness) is like Husserl's transcendental ego - an individual subject that gives meaning to everything by way of its intentionality. Because consciousness gives all meaning, anything can have meaning for it. There isn't any restraint, any facticity or thrownness, as Heidegger would call it. It follows that we can give meaning to whatever values we choose. To take Sartre's example, if I decide this moment not to be a gambler, the next moment I can give that decision a new meaning, say that it was a foolish decision, and go right on gambling. I am, in Sartre's terms, pure spontaneity, pure lightness, pure freedom, pure nothingness - absurdly free. Sartre holds that consciousness is 'beyond freedom' and human being is the absurd and doomed attempt to find some stable meaning in life.	2005-03-06
US	52783335	RB6DRQGD689A1	0393310779	79911364	The Greek Way	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Greatest Human Freedom & Its Power Corrupting Downfall	Great book on the Greek mind and culture, not overly detailed and self explanatory, dealing with their art, writing, historians,  playwrights, comic and tragic poets and religion. I think this is a great book to read along with H.D.F. Kitto's book, The Greeks. <br /> <br />Hamilton goes into the Eastern way of quietistic retreat and denial of the external world of the Egyptians in the culture that worshiped the dead and interior spirit world, how they reduced to nothingness all that belongs to man and this world. Man is annihilated into the ways of nature. The Hindus also traveled within the interior selves, and in art, expressing themselves in decorative and elaborate art and writing. conglomeration of adornments ornaments and decorations. While the Greeks honored this world, this life, seeing the divinity and sacredness in this world, involving themselves in excellence, in the Olympic games, having gods and goddesses that resembled the beauty of humans and human existence. This was alien to mysticism and the vanishing of the self. Unlike other civilizations where the intellect belonged strictly to the priests, the Greeks as a whole pursued rationalism, truth, simplicity and meaning in existence. Life was lived to its fullest, but not in excess, as the two inscriptions over the Oracle of Apollo in Delphi reads as: \\"Know thyself\\" and \\"Nothing in excess.\\" <br /> <br />On page 20 \\"That which distinguishes the modern world from the ancient, and that which divides the West form the East, is the supremacy of mind in the affairs of men, and this came to birth in Greece and lived in Greece alone of all the ancient world. The Greeks were the first intellectualists. In a world where the irrational had played the chief role,they came forward as the protagonists of the mind.\\"  <br /> <br />In art, in writing, in the gods, there was simplicity, lucid clarity that shied away from symbolism. This can be seen in the architecture and the poetry. The Gothic cathedral was raided in in awe of an Almighty God, humanity far below in reverence, while the Parthenon was raided in triumph, to express the beauty and the power and the splendor of man. <br /> <br />Hamilton goes intuit the style and and aristocracy of the poet Pindar, into the freedom and amount of leisure in the culture for persons to seek out truth and rational development, the Symposium dinner party of the upper class and dinner party of Xenophon and working men and women. The writings of the extensive traveling and experiences of Herodotus and his attitude towards other cultures, both of this world and in religious allegorism. How the freedom allowed the comic poet Aristophanes to speak freely and question the intentions and actions of the most important figures without any back lash. In this she compares this to sixteen century England and Gilbert.  <br /> <br />A summary of the account of the historian Thucydides, the exiled general and his observance of a great democracy that defeated the Persians in a new era and later their power, strength and greed corrupting her, finally falling to the oligarchy and tyranny of Sparta. The Peloponesian War caused great strain on the culture and paranoia developed. The rule of the one, of the few, of the many, each is destroyed in turn because there is in them all an unvarying evil - the greed for power - and no moral quality is necessarily bound up with any of them. There is a real parallel today the current imperialistic powers, the U.S., that once based their ideals on democratic freedoms, but even from the start not without severe contradictions.. <br /> <br />A good discussion is made on the idea of tragedy, a Greek creation from a free society, the spirit of inquiry in poetry, the dignity in the suffering and significance of human life. The three tragic poets, Aeschylus, Sophocles and Euripides. The mystery of suffering and sense of the wonder of human life, its beauty and terror and pain and the power in meant to do and to hear in the words of Aeschylus. The structure and form of Sophocles in the idea of helpless fate and the power of man to ally himself with the good in suffering and dying nobly. And the criticism as in our modern day of Euripides, who both attacked all of the foundations, an indictment of evil and at the same time looked at the tender compassion of the unfortunate and the sense of the worth of human life. <br /> <br />Other thoughts are conveyed on the birth of the newer god, Dionysus, needed for the substance for Apollo to balance, to allow the ecstasy and nothing in excess. Nobel self restraint must have something to restrain.  And subsequently the importance of Demeter and addition of Dionysus in the Eleusinian mysteries. Each new idea would always threaten the old, but in the end there is a deeper insight and a better life with ancient follies and prejudices gone. This was the case with Socrates in the attempt to attain truth, goodness and fundamental realities. The book ends in a small comparison of the unbalance of the modern world from the Greeks.	2005-02-28
US	52783335	RAZCOAWZNYXJU	0446607258	79911364	Mythology: Timeless Tales of Gods and Heroes	Books	5	9	11	N	Y	Meaningful Introduction to Mythology	A very meaningful and enjoyable book. I had to read this book twice to increase my memory on all the gods, heroes, gods, monsters and mortals related to one another and stories that intertwine with one another. This really opens you up to the later play writers and the birth of the ideas that later came about in the rational thinking of Socrates, Plato and Aristotle. I couldn't help partiality to the story or character is of Thesus and the city of Athens, the birth of equal justice and government of the people; democracy, which is far removed from the so-called pseudo forms of today.<br /><br />What is really beneficial about this book is that Hamilton takes the well known writers from the different centuries, those who repeat, elaborate, embellish and abridge the same and relational stories and then puts each story down in its full summarized form. In this she takes her information from the famous Roman writers Ovid and Virgil, from the Greek poet, Homer, from the poor farmer in favor of justice and questioner of nature, Hesiod, the lyric poet, Pindar, the tragic poets, Aeschylus, Sophocles, Euripides and Aeschylus, the comic poet Aristophanes, the Alexandrian poets; Apollonius of Rhodes and others, the pastoral poets Theocritus, Bion and Moschus, the Latin poet, Apuleius and the Greek poets, Lucian, Apollodorus and Pausanias. Some of these poets took their stories seriously, while others were not, such as Ovid, who was excellent at details, appreciative and thorough, yet he considered much to be nonsense, his work simply art form.<br /><br />It was in the fifth century where much of the Greek mythology was being replaced by rational thinking as in Euripides story of Creusa where he says to his audience, \\"Look at your Apollo, the sun-bright Lord of the Lyre, the pure God of Truth. This is what he did. he brutally forced a helpless young girl and then abandoned her.\\" the end of Greek mythology was at hand where such plays drew full houses in Athens. The same can be said for the Judeo God Yahweh who suffered and starved his own peoples that dared disobey and slayed his enemies with no compassion, taking the virgin women, livestock and valuables as spoil.<br /><br />Some of the books stories do lack details. For instance, in the story of Odysseus, who revenges with murder of the gallant men that abused his estates assets in their desire to marry his widow. Here Hamilton does not mention the murdering punishment of hanging applied to the abusive maidens that were in his household that can be found in the Odyssey. Also, in Hamilton's book, as in the move TROY, she describes the death of Patroclos as a surprise, his armour removed at death revealing his true identity. Yet the Iliad does not support this. On page 200 it states that only at first did the Trojans believe this, then soon realizing though Patroclos own words and actions that it was him and not Achilles fighting. For instance, Apollo disguised as Hector's young uncle, Asios, speaks to Hector saying, \\"Hurry, make for Patroclos, and you may get him, Apollo may give you victory!\\" So much for fine details, this is an excellent book.<br /><br />The last portion of the book has a short amount on Norse mythology, which is very beneficial in comparing to the previous Greek and Roman thought and you can see the influence on Wagner and others. The Norse courage in a doomed existence of heroic bravery is very different from the Greek, highly comtemplative in analysis.eo God Yahweh who suffered and starved his own peoples that dared disobey and slayed his enemies with no compassion, taking the virgin women, livestock and valuables as spoil.    Some of the books stories do lack details. For instance, in the story of Odysseus, who revenges with murder of the gallant men that abused his estates assets in their desire to marry his widow. Here Hamilton does not mention the murdering punishment of hanging applied to the abusive maidens that were in his household that can be found in the Odyssey. Also, in Hamilton's book, as in the move TROY, she describes the death of Patroclos as a surprise, his armour removed at death revealing his true identity. Yet the Iliad does not support this. On page 200 it states that only at first did the Trojans believe this, then soon realizing though Patroclos own words and actions that it was him and not Achilles fighting. For instance, Apollo disguised as Hector's young uncle, Asios, speaks to Hector saying, \\"Hurry, make for Patroclos, and you may get him, Apollo may give you victory!\\" So much for fine details, this is an excellent book.     The last portion of the book has a short amount on Norse mythology, which is very beneficial in comparing to the previous Greek and Roman thought and you can see the influence on Wagner and others. The Norse courage in a doomed existence of heroic bravery is very different from the Greek, highly comtemplative in analysis.	2005-02-24
US	52783335	RY820I1X44ZT1	0451527364	627065254	The Odyssey (Signet Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Homer's World	This book is written as a novel in easy lucid style that reads as a story and a good read. However, much of the writings themselves are poetry, where various ancient Greek reciters read such passages with in depth acting and poetic style, which is a separate study in itself, one I have not read nor am reviewing here.<br /><br />A great novel and read after first reading the Iliad, a different story, and the continuing saga of Odysseus' journey. The theme of the Odyssey is that of Odysseus' household dilemma with the wooing of his wife, Penelopia, by would-be marriage mates and his son Telemachos' problem of holding the household together from these men in devouring all the goods. In the end, order, revenge and justice is restored. Both of Homer's novels are beneficial in learning about Greek mythology and I recommend reading Edith Hamilton's book on the history of mythology.<br /><br />Like its predecessor, the Iliad, this story is two stories, the comic background to the tragedy below, yet in this novel the gods are that much more active in human  affairs, half mortals, mortal descendants of and involvement. However, there are relatively few gods that are actively involved in the Odyssey compared to their totality in number.<br /><br />What really makes this book so inspiring is the gods themselves. The Greeks transformed a world full of fear into a world full of beauty. The gods become human, lovelier and more powerful, immortal, but often acted in a way no decent man or woman would.<br /><br />Greek mythology is not so much a religion as it is a way of actively dealing in the deeper meanings of life. Nor is the Odyssey a Greek kind of bible. While myths may have real religious meanings, they are more explanations of the deeper answers in nature. And the Greeks transformed a world of nonhuman fearful gods into humanly divine that actively engaged in human affairs.<br /><br />\\"Each god, like the men, shows what manner of god he is; and the scenes are full of delicate comedy, which gives the relief necessary for the grim stories. The gods are really the most human of Homer's creations, and there is plenty of variety in their setting.\\" p. 290essary for the grim stories. The gods are really the most human of Homer's creations, and there is plenty of variety in their setting.\\" p. 290	2005-02-21
US	52783335	R13XQRU9DAYW77	1920888004	823074586	Chvez, Venezuela and the New Latin America: An interview with Hugo Chvez	Books	5	20	32	N	Y	Hero of the Current Modern World	UPDATE:   Well, I've read this book and have enjoyed it very much. I am very impressed in the State's take over of the Oil industry which was previously \\"privatized,\\" the revenue received by private ownership nowhere to be found in the Country of Venezuela. I think it is rather obvious where it has gone; into the United States benefit. This is a clear cut case of the abuse of privatization and subsequently, Chavez is using the revenues to clothe and educate the poor and the children . . . very much in admiration. I also found his close relationship with Fidel Castro and their views of socialism and growth a real credibility and respect towards both men. There is much to learn in socialistic ideals and liberalism within democracy. I think the combination represents moderate and more balanced politics. Rather, it is the extremes, in both the Right AND the Left, that creates the devastation's in political history.     ORIGINAL REVIEW:  Amazon has had this book on back order for quite some time. I wonder if the delay to get this book is because the FBI or the CIA monitors or questions anyone who buys this book. I'm just being paranoid you say? Maybe. But why not? They censor libraries on lists of persons who borrow books they deem questionable. We have lost our democracy and freedom to read books with privacy.    I would really like to read this book before the president of the United States either creates another coo to kill the writer of the book, Hugo Chavez, or has him assassinated. This man really is a hero, one of the few world leaders that has almost been killed, and continues to speak his mind for the benefit of the working people, for democracy. True democracy always puts the masses ahead of the large monopolistic corporations. How many other leaders have rejected corporate money in favor of the working people?     You see, Bush hates this guy. This is because Chavez runs OPEC with a lot of oil and he won't cow down to the U.S. and Bush's demands. I mean what country has the right (might makes right) to hold out to the mighty U.S.? So this book is a must to read.    \\"Soviet power has collapsed but that does not mean that neoliberal capitalism has to be the model followed by the peoples of the West... This world cannot be run by a universal police force that seeks to control everything.\\" -President Hugo Chvez	2005-02-21
US	52783335	RG1P970W475C8	0451527372	327589516	The Iliad (Signet Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Awesome War Novel With Two Stories: The Tragedy & The Comedy	This translation is written in a novel form, not as the poetic form originally written in. And on that note: what a great war novel! Intense it is, and after seeing first the movie TROY, it made it somewhat more easier to visualize the story. The W. H. D. Rouse translation was a pleasure to read. It is written in novel form, not poetry as others and it was not boring or hard to comprehend style, but rather very enjoyable, although there are some portions that are somewhat repetitious with lineages and phrases. This is an excellent translation.    Now this story is really two stories, whereas the move TROY only conveys the tragedy. And this is what the story is: a brutal tragedy coupled with a comedy, the story of a tragic human war and bloodbath and the story of the gods who are actively involved in the story, which the movie completely omits. So as much as the movie TROY helps to visualize, it changed many parts, as in the armour of Achilles worn by Patroclos where the movie describes the death of Patroclos as a surprise, his armour removed at death revealing his true identity. However the Iliad states that Patroclos was recognized in Achilles armour by Hector before he killed him. On page 200, Apollo disguised as Hector's young uncle, Asios, speaks to Hector saying, \\"Hurry, make for Patroclos, and you may get him, Apollo may give you victory!\\" The movie also completely lacked the comedy, omitting the entire second story behind the tragedy story.    The divine family  was the comic background to the tragedy below. The gods are actively involved in the story, Apollo arrowshooter helping the Trojans, Hera and Athena helping the Achaians, Queen Hera seducing Zeus to sleep while she slyly aids the Achaians, Poseidon earthshaker helping the Achians, and back and forth with many other gods. The gods arguing on Mount Olympus over various actions being performed by both warring parties and each others involvement. In the midst of the tragedy, the ugliest and brutal killings, the comedy occurs: a nice friendly old family visit from Achilles mother, the goddess Silverfoot Thetis visiting another god, the old Crookshank Hephalstos, to make new armour for her son, Achilles. But first Crookshank speaks of his past relationship with Silverfoot Thetis and his making of \\"lovely things\\" such as brooches, twisted spirals, rosettes, necklaces. And he must first make Thetis something nice to eat and drink while he puts away his bellows and tools.     The Greeks didn't have the nausea of emptinesss and existential despair that we have in our modern era, as the gods and fate live with the tragic reality. And the gods were active in human affairs, favoring and disfavoring people who they choose. Many of their children were humans, Achaians and Trojans. They had their own divine family on Mt. Olympus, fought amongst each other and the battles of human affairs, taking their own sides. They felt pain, hurt, joy, laughter and anger, could be honored, humilated and beaten, so they shared the highs and lows of the human experience and yet comicly rose above.    This is a facinating war novel and opens your mind up to the Greeks during the days of Homer and their later civilization in its adhering regard to this story. It really is meaningful in understanding the later writings of Plato and others, as in the playwrights of Sophocles, Euryphides, Aristophanes and others. I think is is significant to learn and understand about the ancient Greek civilization to open up the mind in tolerant pragmatism, hopefully away from the fundamentalist one sided mind set that is so prevalent in our current day and attempt to understand this world so different than ours.	2005-02-15
US	52783335	R1ADWK5GSSEJJG	0877287171	843744780	You Forever	Books	5	39	40	N	N	Awesome Book on Tantric Buddhist and Occult Thought	This is an awesome book on Tantric Buddhism and the occult under Buddhist thought, one grid of measurement in the sea of beneficial blueprints to view humanity and reality under. In this T. Lobsand Rampa goes into the idea of human body and the atomistic view in its relation to smaller and higher forms of matter, the etheric and magnetic fields, the aura and it's colors, the wave fields of telepathy, clairvoyance and psychometry along with other waves of of existence in all matter.     Written as a mail order course combined into a book format, lessons are conveyed on how to understand and read the auric sheath, it's colors, the ability to see the etheric and aura fields, escaping the limitations of the body through meditative practices beyond thought and conceptual thinking, intuitively feeling existence. In this are out of body auric experiences, the auric body travel while dreaming while attached by a psychic silver cord. How life as we know it is a school of suffering for growth towards higher existence beyond our incarnations of existence through reincarnation.     In order to grow psychically, one has to leave the highs and the lows of thinking in moodiness of euporhia and depression to that of the sound stable waves of inner composure and calmness. Our minds consist of electrical waves when kept level and balance exist for us in an inner peace with calm faith in the universal laws of karma where we can maintain a peaceful inner existence which induces our psychic abilities of telepathic hearing, clairvoyant visions and the psychometric ability to feel the vibrational frequencies of history in objects, places, things and people. And there is reading the Akashic Record which contains the knowledge of all history.     And T. Lobsand Rampa expounds on the act of giving, forgiving and letting go of anger and fear. This includes practices of breathing and balance of non-thinking that lets go of anger and emotional turmoils. To continue fear anger and anxiety is to run an engine in lower gear going the same speed.     There is mentioned self-hypnosis to the subconscious, to train our minds to do as we wish. The wisdom is in living in a peaceful state of kindness, tolerance, understanding and balance beyond all the petty concerns of the physical competition, of the constant clinging and aversions of the materialistic and ignorant. Generosity, agape, tithing to your causes are essential. I really enjoyed these spiritual principles. It makes me smile at the ignorance of the monotheists and Christians that condemn the occult, while these teachings endorse the only acts of receiving are through giving, an attitude and  life of service to others.    There are no doctrines, no religious dogmas, but the endorsement to let people have their own philosophies, religions and doctrines, unless of course the reader is dogmatic about these teachings or any other he or she reads.	2005-02-14
US	52783335	R3N61RT595AUQ	0312152175	82922075	Surfing the Himalayas: A Spiritual Adventure	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Wonderful Journey in Spiritual Awareness of Tantric Buddhism	I really enjoyed this book. This book is on Tantric Buddhism, not Tibetan or Bon, although there are variations of course. I can usually rate a good book by the amount of thinking I do in retaining some of the illustrative ideas. I am not some convinced believer out of all the Buddhist ideas, however if you can view non-dogmatically, envision the possibilities there of, then such ideas are really beneficial in the pragmatic sense of truths in that they portray another lens to view sacred human existence and ways of living. Besides, such ancient teachings, although non-scientific according to the atomistic mechanics of our current Cartesian grids, can convey subtle truths beyond our so called logic. I found this book truly enlightening, an easy to read story, of a snowboarder who travels to the Himalayan mountains to snowboard, meeting up with his karmic destiny. Here he meets a enlightened Buddhist monk, Master Fwap, who teaches him tantric Buddhism and his past enlightened lives that brought forth this karmic destiny.    What it comes down to is a dialogue, that is a question and answer between two persons teaching and discussing Buddhist thoughts. In the teaching style of Plato, we are the third parties learning from the questions and answers of two others in conversation rather than being taught directly.     In this Master Fwap explains the two main ways of Buddhist thinking, that of meditation of leaving all thoughts and that of mindfulness in becoming one in unity with the current task at hand. In each case, there is a melting of conceptional thought into a unified existence. For instance, in ceasing to thinking of how to snowboard by the way one steers and maneuvers the board oneself as separate, the idea here is to stop thinking as a person on the board but instead becoming one with the board, letting go of linear conceptional thinking, floating in the center becoming one with the board. Here is becomes automatic as to what to do and how to maneuver insteadof \\"thinking\\" about what and how. One has to always allow the action of the activity or event to take precedence over one's own point of view, allowing the emptiness inherent within the actions and experiences to guide and shape the choices and direct, not the other way around.    I really enjoyed the illustration between the Western hierarchical linear thought to that of the Buddhist relational thought. Here the linear thought or line thinking, consists of historical and rational reverence in a line of connecting thoughts where one has to travel the lines of thought to figure out the accurate conclusion. In the Buddhist relational thinking one thinks from the center of a circle, floating in the center of a circle without traveling in analysis of linear connection. And in the center is where one can grab the data without the linear travel at a much easier, faster and more efficient level.    Also mentioned was the geographical locations of the earth  where the invisible currents of energy supplies that induced samadhi from a purer aura atmosphere. Since there are few places on earth that are pure from the polluted auras of the lower vibrational energy levels - the pranic currents, of non-enlightened society. This is also explains why some cities, towns and places are of lower vibrational currents and harder to induce samadhi, living in or near sacred mountains, become beneficial from their auric influences. It is believed that at the ancient time of Atlantis the pranic currents where much purer since the population was smaller consisting of enlightened persons and thus one could much easier enter the state of Samadhi.    Samadhi is spoken of as ecstasy beyond comprehension in meditation where every cell of your body is filled with a fiery ecstasy of kundalini energy, inducing the kundalini energy of he body, traveling the chakras to the sixth chakra in Buddhist Yoga, the third eye, and then up into the seventh chakra, the crown chakra where the intensity is equaledto different amount of lotus pedals that can be stimulated in this crown chakra. The idea is to push the kundalini energy out the crown chakra. Also conveyed is the need to study with an enlightened master. While book learning is beneficial, the need exists for an elightened master to guide.	2005-02-14
US	52783335	R2GI643E8JCJSF	0415289793	576014452	Wholeness and the Implicate Order (Volume 135)	Books	5	39	44	N	Y	From Atomistic, Relativity and Quantum to Implicate Order	A deep and enlightening book that ventures beyond the mechanistic paradigm of classical physics. I am not a physicist and as a layman, I found this book overall understandable, except the mathematical equations Bohm employs in areas of relativity, quantum computations and other physic equations of algebraic and geometric means. It really is a brilliant piece of work and not easy book to explain, but I can say as a novice, this is a superior work. <br /> <br />Bohm starts out with our Western fragmented view of reality, failing to see wholeness, thinking through our lenses of space, time, matter, mechanics, causality, contingency and so forth, as Kant pointed out how we categorize our perceptions. The notion we view in fragment is our illusion which cause confusion. It is our measuring net over reality that fragments it. While the Newtonian works for much it is also the fragmentation of our cultures, cities, religions political systems, etc. Our mechanics look for absolutes and any theory of absolute truths results in fragmentation, thus the differences between the atomic theory, the theory of relativity and the quantum theory into a form of reality that is moving, resulting in what he calls a undivided wholeness in flowing movement. <br /> <br />Bohm describes a language he calls the Rheomode. Basically it is the opposite of our views where language describes a noun in action. The Rheomode. describes the verb center of action. Rather than the order of \\"I\\" am typing, it would be, there is typing being done. Beyond all of the sequential order expressed in terms of our divisional language their is the movement of attention. Evidently, by our ability to perceive and understand is limited by the freedom with which the ordering of attention can change, so as to fit the order that is to be observed. There is allot more to this, apparently this changes our atomistic view, changes our world views of self and truth, by taking away the importance from our world views, removingthe fragmentary breaks we project. <br /> <br />Bohm describes reality and knowledge considered as a process. There is something above memory and the mechanical process to reason in what Bohm calls intelligence. One might suggest that in intelligent perception, the brain and nervous system respond directly to an order in the universal and unknown flux that cannot be reduced to anything that could be denied in theories of knowable structure. There's an intense outlay between thought and non=thought, knowledge considered as a process, a free movement of the mind needed for clarity of perception, which contributes to a pervasive distortion and confusion of every experience. <br /> <br />Bohm believes there are hidden variables in the quantum theory, despite its indeterminism of the Heisenberg principle and Von Neumanns arguments and the paradox of Einstein, Rosen and Podolsky. In this he attempts to resolve, it gets a little heavy here for the layman in treatment of the quantum fluctuations.  <br /> <br />It is here where the quantum theory is seen as an indication of a new order. While the theory of relativity recognizes continuity and strict causality and locality, a singular overall pattern of curvular continuous connection, the quantum recognizes an order measured in non locality in autonomous groups but not continuously connected, an undivided wholeness with separate groupings, the observer and observed become one, while separate, a holomovement where each part contains the whole in some way, a relative autonomy, different closed circuits of particles of autonomous groups. <br /> <br />The enfolding and unfolding universe and consciousness completely removes the Cartesian grid. It is the idea of a projected hologram from a non locality that enfolds into itself. From a void that contains all, a movement which unfolds in explicate order which enfolds in implicate order back unto itself. The electrons enter a different kind of state, in which they are no longer relatively independent. Rather, each electron acts as a projection share a non-local, non-causal correlation, which is such that they go round obstacles co-operatively without being scattered or diffused, without resistance, all so into a multidimensional reality There are infinite relatively independent sub-totalities which are abstracted, explicated as autonomous.	2005-02-14
US	52783335	R38XHYIY90O1T3	0892815353	642206889	A New Science of Life: The Hypothesis of Morphic Resonance	Books	5	51	55	N	Y	Beneficial Paradigm Shift of Science - Formative Causation	This is an excellent book, a hypothesis on an unconventional theory that just as well can be completely acknowledged as science, as many of the conventional science theories always started with unproven hypothesis, such as Newton's gravitational fields until proven at a later time. Quantum physics, relativity, and many other ideas are true science without fully documented mechanistically determined answers all tested in line with Karl Popper. If your a science reader and interested in biology, physics and evolution, then this book is a must to read. It is the conventionalists and those who are unable to allow a paradigm shift that have attacked this theory as pseudo science. This book  is from 1981 and since then there have been more experiments regarding this theory and also Sheldrake has another book from 1995 on the same with more details called The Presence of the Past.    The theory consists of an addition to the chemical and physical properties of materialism, something in addition to the DNA code in random mutations and non-random natural selection, an additional force what many vitialists have always acknowledged; the idea of higher organizational states. And here it is the theory of morphogenetic fields and formative causation. The idea of morphogenetic fields first developed by embryologists such as Conrad Waddington and later mathematically by theoreticians such as Rene Thomas.    The ideas starts with no answer to what causes the first change, but continues with a theory as to subsequent developments. As each thought is created, enlarged, elaborated on, taught, as each experience develops a certain particular field in a particular person, animal, and all organic and inorganic matter and energy, there is a change in that particular morphogenetic field. As each change takes place in this field, an accumulation takes place and an average is taken as a composite from the whole. Anotherwards each new idea that is learned in a human becomes part of the whole where other humans can now learn this thought much easier as it now exists in the same human morphogenetic field. Rats in London taught will now increase the percentage of other rats around the world completely removed with no contact from those in London. Each morphogenetic field takes in the formation, the ideas, the properties of the whole, where as all those connected in this field experience morphogenetic resonance or the effects that have now been contributed to this field. This is what Sheldrake calls causative formation.    Each cell, each atom, all are formed from these morphogenetic fields in addition to the energy fields, and the chemical and biological properties of mechanistic and causal definitions taught by conventional science. Like a radio receiver that tunes into a particular radio wave, the radio itself acts as a receiver and yet the energy waves that operate it is not the same as the radio waves and can also affect the properties of the sound from these waves. The radio itself can also affect the properties of the sound emitted from radio signals, however both the energy fields and the radio instrument are not the same as the radio waves. And such it is with morphogenetic fields. The mechanics of the biological properties that make up physical being, our cells, bodies, brains, act as receivers to the morphogenetic fields that we connect with. It is here we are changing and choosing to various different morphogenetic fields regarding body motor movement, thought contents and so forth. As each field is affected by others and as we make changes in these fields, all connected with these fields are affected in a composite nature. Past forms affect the current forms.     The last chapter of the book is what brings it on all home with four possible conclusions;one - a modified materialism, two - the idea of the conscious self that interacts with these morphogenetic fields in using the body, which is totally apart from materialism. And this idea is not simply a ghost in a machine with energetic fields/causation but the addition of morphogenetic/formation fields.  Three - the idea of creative agencies apart from our conscious selves, which can be defined as inspiration as Plato suggested a tapping into a higher source or creative fields with goals. And four - a transcendent realty or tapping into fields that have no purpose or goals but rather the wholeness of organisms at all levels of complexity as a reflection of a transcendent unity on which they depend and are derived from. This idea then affirms the conscious self and the existence of a hierarchy of creative agencies immanent within nature and the reality of a transcendent source of the universe.    The end of the book appendix has both positive and negative reviews on the book and a enlightening conversation between Sheldrake and David Bohm, Wholeness and the Implicate Order.	2005-02-04
US	52783335	R1KFSA1RXLW4DS	0312302584	800097894	Crashing the Party: Taking on the Corporate Government in an Age of Surrender	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Alternative Medicine For Corporate Aristocracy	This is an excellent book on the issues that face American politics today, the views of Ralph Nader and his story relating to the 2000 election year and his campaign trail. <br /> <br />The book raises awareness to the issues of corporate welfare practiced by both the Republican and Democratic  parties, how the Democrats have morphed into a pseudo-Republican party, under the heavy influence of corporate lobbyists, ceasing to represent the working class and masses as Roosevelt and other great Democrats have done in the past.  <br /> <br />And the results are ecological damages, social injustices which have removed equal opportunities, centralization of power, corporate owned business which has eliminated much of the community based revenues, a disrespect for diversity and citizen participation and the monetary interests of plutocrat - the corporate elites - removing personal and global responsibilities.  Inflation has risen, workers make less, poverty has increased, minimum wage is lower today in relation to inflation. Americans work longer hours for the same pay. Farmers have been devastated by large corporate industry, public works and schools have been given less and less funding and are crumbling, corporate welfare programs that take our tax dollars amounting to hundreds of billions of dollars ever year continue to rise with government giveaways of taxpayer assets including public forests, minerals and new medicines. Affordable housing are at record low levels, while the large corporate banks show record profits. Consumer debt is at a al-time high. Personal bankruptcies are at a record level. Personal savings are dropping to record lows and personal assets are extremely low. Corporate welfare dominates while small inadequate budgets provide the publics health and safety issues. Environmental regulations are removed for corporate interests. Wealth inequality is greater than at any time since World War II. The top 1 percent of the wealthiest people have more financial wealth than the bottom 90 percent of Americans combined, the worst inequality among large Western nations. And with all this, the corporate lobbyists continue to receive more privileges and immunities for their wrongdoing, while the workers, the labor parties, the populists - farmers, the environmentalists, the feminists, those that work towards civil rights - all are diminishing in great degrees. <br /> <br />The argument against Nader is his pulling of votes away from the Democrats, resulting in Republican elections. Yet this argument is a lame duck when you put Socratic inquiry to the Democratic party and see the morphing there of into another Republican party. The two party duopoly has been called the DemRep party and the corporate control, the plutocrats, are buying the government which can result in an aristocracy and totalitarian system, this time base on radical privatization instead of state owned communism, however the end results are the same. The third party, the Greens, offer an alternative, a vote against big-money politics as usual. The duopoly offers a politics of fear - the lesser of two corrupt parties, while the third party offers a politics of home and democratic renewal  And even if not the elected party, if offers itself as a constant watchdog of the Democratic party to make necessary changes.  <br /> <br />I think Nader gives a good account of the media, the third party partisan bias in American politics, the problem with the corporate directed Commission on Presidential Debates - the CPD, his campaign trail, his opposition, party funders, party loyalists and etc. <br /> <br />On page 289 take from the New York Times: \\"The Green Party recognizes that every major social-justice movement in our history was made possible by a shift of more power to the people, away from the power that the few control. And it's way past time for a shift of power today from big business to the people. When slavery was abolished, shift of power from the plantations. Women's right to vote installed, that was a shift of power. Freedom to form trade unions by workers, shift of power form the industrialists to the workers. When the farmers started the progressive political movement, shift of power from the banks and the railroads to the farm areas and gave us political reforms for all Americans to enjoy to this day 100 years later. Power is the central contention of politics; that's what it's all about. If we don't have a more equitable destitution of power, there is no equitable distribution of wealth or income. And people who work hard will not get their just rewards. And the main way to shift power, if you had to have one reform is with public funding of public elections. Clean money, clean elections. Clean money and clean elections to stop the nullification of your votes by special interest money. Just thing about it; you go down to vote, you expect it to count, and the votes are cut off at the pass by fancy fund-raising dinners all over the country where fat cats pay off politicians for present and future favors and the politicians shake down the fat cats in a kind of combined symbiosis of legalized bribery and legalized extortion.\\" <br /> <br />\\"Civilization as if people are first is not just about opportunities; it is about limits and boundaries around antisocial, criminogenic behavior whose limitless logic eventually would spell omnicide for this very limited home we call Mother Earth.\\" page 315	2005-02-03
US	52783335	R2D7PKO1E24KPN	0060929707	467648079	There's a Spiritual Solution to Every Problem	Books	5	23	27	N	N	Tuning To Higher Frequencies In Giving, Means Receiving	I found this an excellent book, however before you read this positive review, I will say that this is somewhat unrealistic. It's easy to say that mental and psychic abilities and mantras and mental visualizations are the reasons and cures to illnesses when you are a successful 6 digit author. Yet this book is very helpful in personal transformation in dealing with our circumstances and training our thinking to achieve peace and strength.    Dwyer starts his book five of Pantanjali aphorisms or steps to access spiritual direction in recognition of higher vibrational frequencies, realization of higher infinite spiritual force where we surrender ourselves in an empty mind from conceptions, exhibiting generosity and gratefulness, appreciation for the simplicity of life in a cheerful disposition. The solution is a change in thinking realizing a connection we have to a higher energy source or God, which ever you which to call or perceive it.    Here we must cease to identify our selves with our bodies and minds but rather part of a teleology or higher existence of spirit as a spiritual being in a human experience, to learn detachment from the  false identification of ourselves as separate beings, now seeing ourselves as part of an infinite. When we identify with this higher spiritual self we can find an inner calmness that removes itself from the disturbances of our illusionary egos that try to convince us of a separateness. Like the calm universe, the force and power that holds the planets in orbit, the sun burning, this is the force that we must identify with and trust. It is an inner calm, peaceful recognition. It is our union with God or the infinite, whereas sin is our disunity in illusionary obstacles of this life that overwhelm us. This new identification empowers us from our union with a higher universal force.    Its all matter of energy. Lower frequency relates to negativity, problems and disunity, as in fear, anxiety, stress, depression and ego centricity, while the higher frequencies relate to spirit and harmonious movement toward unity, health and wholeness. The idea is that we can choose to stay connected to the higher spirit rather than the lower when we recognize the differences and make the necessary changes, by removing energy obstacles  as in letting go, forgiving, moving away from other people that try to bring us down to negativity and so forth.  Its adjusting our selves to tune into the higher frequencies which in turn give us the ability to express ourselves through such in guidance and serving others. We change our agenda from \\"what's in it for me\\" to \\"how can I serve. \\" By giving ourselves away we connect to the higher spirit which reverberates back to us in receiving.     It's a matter of giving our energy to the higher sources of serving, giving, generosity. We have to avoid giving our energy to all those that attempt to pull us down into their anger, gossip, so-called problems which bring us down. Our failure to let go, to forgive, to believe in our potentialities in appreciation and gratitude of what we have at this present moment rather than what we don't have and wish to receive. Most of our ingrained habits cause us to send our energy to what we don't want or like in a situation. The idea is to send our energy to what we want - as  you think, so shall you be - the glass half empty verses the half full - we perceive as empty we get more empty, we perceive as full and we receive more full. In this Dwyer recommends positive self visualizations, an ancient technique that has enormous benefits. Our greatest illusion is defining ourselves from our pasts. Instead we must cease to look at the trail behind the boat and recognize that is the engine that runs the boat not the trail. And this is the case with us, it is not our pasts and personal history that define us but our present moment connection to the higher energy, God, calm-detached universal power that guides us into peaceful unity and harmonious solutions of inner peace.     To keep our energy fields uncontaminated and connected to the higher source, God, or universal power is to take care of our physical health and diet, visualizations for healing, ceasing to let anger and hate bring us down recognizing that all our disputes with others are not between us and them but between us and God or us and the universe or higher universal force. We have to try our best to refrain from environments of fear, as in areas of conflict, turmoil and negativity and gravitate to environments of love, nature, peaceful surroundings - this is about the areas of collective energy. Its what we think about, talk about and perceive as. We do the choosing.     Practicing awareness, recognizing the place you are in as holy, seeing the hidden beauty throughout the day in the scenery, the people, places and things you encounter.  Letting go of the need to convince others of our ideas and opinions, silently content with our connection to a higher source. Our prayer is not asking for favors or changes in our circumstances, but rather changes from our attachments and energy deposits in lower frequencies of negativity to higher in service in our ability to forgive, to let go, to give over grasping and aversion, to recognize that prayer is our detachment from lower frequencies to higher calm, silent love that casts all fear aside. Fear is replaced with love and quiet harmonious peace, to the natural state of being.     We give up fighting our problems of disunity. When we fight against anything we join forces with that which created the problem in a counterforce. So we give our attention, our energy to what we positively believe in towards unity and peace.  Stop fighting the negative and give our energy to working towards the positive. That is the way to achieve it. Let go, stop judging others, improving yourself from your former self. We slow down our minds from the chatter in our fight in analyzing and conquering over negativity and open our minds up with space from the higher frequencies or natural state of mind to take place.     Dwyer then applies the prayer of St. Francis of Assisi in our direction into instruments of peace to ourselves and others - how can I serve? Into choosing peace, refraining from negative challenges that our egos use to expend our energies, to meditate, to slow our mental chatter, practice thinking peace - we are what we think. To recognize the peacefulness of nature. Not to fight hate with hate, which remains at lower energy levels, but to sow love, cease revenge and retaliation. To recognize that hate from others are their very perceptions that bring them to this state. Love defuses this both in them, but mostly in us. We have to apply this both to ourselves and others, in letting the incident go, to direct our thinking away, to practice visualizations that portray love energy. If we are detached from our false ego identities then we can remove our selves personally from hate insults and remain as observers.	2005-01-30
US	52783335	R2X1FAURKL4Z85	0971078610	191927664	The Mystique of Enlightenment: The Radical Ideas of U.G. Krishnamurti	Books	5	35	36	N	Y	Radical View on Enlightenment; There Is No Message To Give	A unique and radical view on the idea of enlightenment that is an interesting read. In this U.G. Krishnamurti goes to the extreme side of the ineffable, he has no message to give, as all thoughts, all teachings, are contaminations, all of them!. This book is not for all who wish to metaphysically transcend. And Krishnamurti specifically says so. Do not follow him. Do not look for meaning into anything he has to say. Do not imitate anything he speaks of. If you do follow or try to learn from him then you have completely missed the point of his book.    Krishnamurti's answer to our search of enlightenment is that if we look to him for answers, we are wasting our time, he has none to give us. Nor does he have any worthwhile information at all except the idea that searching for truth is in itself a worthless task.     Then why be interested in reading what Krishnamurti has to say? Three factors. First of all, Krishnamurti was originally from the Theosophy Society, which he rejected. Secondly, he spent seven years with K. Krishnamurti, who he also rejected. Third, and most significant, he has encountered major biological changes in his body, which he goes into some fascinating details; an interior explosion of some sort that effects every last cell in the body. Most of us would interpret such bodily changes as pointing to Buddha consciousness. This Krishnamurti emphatically rejects, stating that there is no type of consciousness called Buddha, Christ, & etc. consciousness, as such ideas are completely erroneous.    The whole biological change in him he relates as an individual flowering of the self that occurs differently in all people, that is, in the very few, only one in a million/billion or so, that possibly have these changes take place in them. He defines these changes as completely biological, not anything taught or learned, neither spiritual nor metaphysical and there is absolutely no benefit in reading, learning, obtaining, following and imitating any spiritualformalities, ideas, mediation techniques, and so forth. He goes on to say that even a murderer, rapist and thief can mysteriously flower individually and acquire these biological changes, which appear to us the readers as enlightened characteristics..     The changes he speaks about may be the evolutionary turn of a human into a fuller being, a flowering of the seed.  And yet he states that these changes are not bliss, nor paradise, not at all. Instead, they took a few years to fully incorporate themselves and were very painful and discomforting, something that most persons who are desiring enlightenment would adamantly reject, as they do not want this. To desire enlightenment is to attach, to desire; this is not any goal of any intellectual or knowledgably desire. This actually has nothing at all to do with that, it is different in a completely other sense. The problem is if anyone acquires such changes they loose their value in society and will be entirely rejected by society for there is no use for such persons.    Krishnamurti speaks of going into a thoughtless \\"declutched\\" state of mind outside of thinking. Thinking is only for communications, everything else consists in this declutched state of no-mind. Look but don't think! All thoughts are contamination.    Krishnamurti repeatedly states how worthless all his words are, as it is entirely impossible to explain or convey what ever it is that has occurred with him. He states that he does not have anything at all to give to us, as this change in him has nothing to do with knowledge and intellect and therefore cannot be taught in any shape, form or fashion. It is completely apart from anything at all he can convey and we are wasting our time to follow any teaching of this matter.	2005-01-28
US	52783335	R3UAXIZJE42QD1	0062506838	53609582	The Enneagram: Understanding Yourself and the Others In Your Life	Books	5	18	24	N	Y	One Valid Framework to View Personality Types	I found this book one of many excellent frameworks in describing personalities. Originally an esoteric Sufi and Cabalist mysticism, then elaborated on by others such as Gurdjieff, Oscar Ichazo, Claudio Naranjo, Joseph Hart, John Lilly, Riso and Helen Palmer. I think Jung's is most famous that embrace the introvert and the extrovert regarding the four personality types of a thinker, feeler, sensor and intuitive, which presents 8 personalities. And in this book by Palmer (also Riso) on the Enneagram, there are nine personality types. Like Jung's personality types, the Ennegrams presents scores of in-between stages, a fourish-five, a threeish-four and so forth, so you can't fault this theorem, nor the non existent particular attributes believed to be of one personality type to an individual, even when that one fits one of the selected types.<br /><br />The idea that must be remembered here is a person is not one personality type, but a core type fluctuating between two others, one in stress, the other in non-stress. So each person is continuously traveling between three points, one of them being the core, while at the same time, this person may or may not lean towards one of it's wing points. To repeat, it is a core point fluctuating between two other points, towards one in stress, towards the other in security, while some are heavily  influenced by one of its wing points. A Five for instance, is secure in eight, but when stress hits it goes towards seven in order to secure its core of Five, like a rubber band effect. I am a fiveish four, or a four-Tragic Romantic, who acts as a withdrawing observer, from leaning in my wing point as a Five-Observer-Solitude. As a Four, I fall into the secure point of a One-Perfectionist. So under stress, I move towards a Two-Giver, in order to balance out my Four.<br /><br />You have to accept the system with degrees of relativity. As helpful as this system is, it is not an exact science, and in this sense, there are no absolutes in any formulated structures.<br /><br />The first four chapters of the book are small and explain the system itself and how it works. The remainder of the book describes in quite detail the nine personality types and is very helpful in observing both the self and others with scores of helpful hints and workable areas that one can work and benefit on by knowing the basic principles and framework of thinking that externally show in actions. By looking in this particular lens of personality types, you can gain greater perception of the person you are dealing with and how you yourself are dealing with the other and make the necessary adjustments. I found myself constantly envisioning many persons I know that really do fit many of the personality types with a large degree of accuracy, including that of myself.<br /><br />I found what is important is to read the entire book, and try to get a handle on the types. Then go back to the first four chapters and re-read to get a full understanding on how each point is really a base of three points and how the wing points can be a major influence.in any formulated structures. <br /> <br />The first four chapters of the book are small and explain the system itself and how it works. The remainder of the book describes in quite detail the nine personality types and is very helpful in observing both the self and others with scores of helpful hints and workable areas that one can work and benefit on by knowing the basic principles and framework of thinking that externally show in actions. By looking in this particular lens of personality types, you can gain greater perception of the person you are dealing with and how you yourself are dealing with the other and make the necessary adjustments. I found myself constantly envisioning many persons I know that really do fit many of the personality types with a large degree of accuracy, including that of myself. <br /> <br />I found what is important is to read the entire book, and try to get a handle on the types. Then go back to the first four chapters and re-read to get a full understanding on how each point is really a base of three points and how the wing points can be a major influence.	2005-01-21
US	52783335	R1OUBAPZCQSCHT	0674697375	705304978	Pragmatism and The Meaning of Truth (The Works of William James)	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Essential Reading Towards Tolerant, Open-Democratic Society	A very important book consisting of different lectures given by William James in 1907. Actually, I think this book, or the thoughts conveyed here, are essential to the future development of open-democratic society. All of the lectures are extremely interesting and flow, while some seem to teeter out to an extent, maybe to fill out the lecture hour. I found this book crucial for understanding both pragmatism and the application for pluralistic comprehension and tolerance of various different viewpoints that both compliment and contradict themselves. This is an important concept that when applied to politics, education, philosophy, religion, science and etc., the world becomes a more tolerant and hospitable place to live in.    This book is for the higher minded person, the person who does not have to cling on to a formula for an absolute answer and then condemn all others that fail to agree. And so it is the liberal, the open ended democratic, the agnostic, the skeptics, that raise themselves in inclusivity and tolerance over the conservatives, the orthodox, the religionists. Pragmatism is spiritual, tolerant and grows, while absolutism is stagnant.    What James presents is the ability to look beyond each of our theories of truth, perceptions of reality, idealism's and see all such objectively as we view outside of our thinking patterns and so-called truths. We enter an area apart from our absolutes, securities and theorems.    If you follow the pragmatic method, you cannot look to a closing absolute theory. Not a solution, but an on going process of questioning, answering and creating in an objectivity of many theories which about contrast and contradict each others. Theories thus become instruments, not answers to enigmas, to rest in, but a continual movement forward verifying truths and comparing with others, elaborating on, reshaping, recreating new paradigms and meanings, within the context of the present moment of time. The aim is it's cash value, its practical utility in working toward the good; the organizing, the unity; that is, within a diversity; the democratic, equalitarian, rights to pursue life, liberty and pursuit of happiness. What follows towards disunity, chaos, divisiveness is that which is discarded.    The corridor theory of pragmatism, James gives as: \\"pragmatism stands for no particular results, no dogmas, no doctrines, but objectively considers all theories like a corridor in a hotel with innumerable rooms open out of it. In one you may find atheism, the other -  theism, the third - skeptics, the fourth - metaphysical thinkers, the fifth - anti-metaphysical, but all of these ideas must pass through the corridor if they want a practicable way of getting into or out of their respective rooms. So its not a particular resulting theory but an attitude of orientation. The attitude of looking away from the first things, principles, 'categories,' supposed necessities; which prevent the practical application towards wholeness. The end result is always of higher value than the immediate part or theory that one is enveloped in.    There is a rearranging of truths, a verifying process, a copying of workable axioms, but more; objectively creating, art, creation, built on previous truths and our mental verification processes of levels of 'facts' we consider absolute or the level to stop reduction. We know there is no apriori, we understand that truths are created conceptions based on their conceptual relationships with other conceptions, webs of thought-relations we derive as equations and answers from verifications of previous created  truths. And yet there is something outside of all these truths, a directions we aim for, a movement towards a higher point, the point of good, or the Platonic-Socratic meaning of good; unity, peace. And here we are towards the unity from diversity in the democratic process. The absolutes are given up as objective observers putting a net of concepts over all others, the conceptual netof comparing, of space and time, the same or different, subjects and attributes and so forth.     Pragmatism is pluralism without independence, it is multiple perceptions, multiple theories and ideas, each valuable in what lens you are looking though, each having more or less practical attributes depending on who it is and from where they are thinking from, however, not in a blindless realitivity, which the critics and conservatives so inadequately accuse. Pragamatism is pluralistic, but not entirely, as it is a pluralism towards a monistic unity or purpose of practical and utilitarian means, the means of the good; the harmonious peace of unity from diversity, tolerance and inclusive creativity that retains values.     There is quite more details in this and this book is significant in restoring the pragmatist ideas in the Whitman, Emmersonian, Dewey and James -  American democracy, which as eroded and in need of repair, or then again, in creating the democracy that never truly was, but only in ideals and aims. Perhaps one day, even after a major regression toward totalitarianism and tyranny, an honest-optimistic, open-democratic pragmatism will come about working towards a unity of practical application which goes far beyond an application of monetary capitalism, but a unity from democratic diversity in an monetary equalitarian society.	2005-01-16
US	52783335	RG1GPI4YQ0AHL	0679731180	799831883	The Origin of Satan: How Christians Demonized Jews, Pagans, and Heretics	Books	4	25	29	N	Y	Origin of Satan Within The Judeo & Early Christian Movements	This book presents an excellent analysis, yet I did find it somewhat disappointing. Not due to any lack on the writer's part, nor on the book itself, but rather to the title, The Origin of Satan, as it appeared to me to allude to more than just the Judeo-Christian scriptures and early formation of the Christian church, which is precisely what this book is about. There is an excellent history here of the early Christian Church, the gospels and Gnostic gospels pertaining and very small portions of the Hebrew scriptures, relating to the idea of Satan. And these are the boundaries this book is set in. This book supplies insight into the gospels, the Gnostic teachings and the early church that go beyond the subject of Satan.    I found most of the book itself one containing information I am already aware of and a short concise history of the gospels. It was the last chapter on the \\"enemy within\\", the Gnostics and fellow Christians who failed to adhere to the Orthodox hierarchy and prescribed canonical order that revealed additional points of the Gnostics that I had not read in Pagels other books; The Gnostic Gospels, and Beyond Belief, exposing the differentiations between the various groups and the Orthodox subsequent attacks and labeling of their opponents as heretics and agents of Satan.     The book brings out that the idea of Satan, which transformed, as in the angel of God who obstructed Balaam's donkey and in the case of Job, where Satan was a part of the hierarchical arrangement with Yahweh in heaven and not a rebel. Satan was additionally considered in the ideas of obstructions of justice, to other obstructing nations, to nations that simply differed, to all enemies, later taking on a more personal form, first part of a cosmic struggle to that of a personal being with legions of fallen angels, demons who resisted God and humans.     Satan was continually applied to the opposing parties, the gospel of Mark first defining the world scene as a cosmic war between the forces of good and evil. Mathew and Luke go further in defining the Jewish leaders as under the influence of demonic forces and John goes further in defining the entire collective Jewry as under such influence. The labeling of other groups as agents of Satan, can be seen over and again, which transmuted to various other parties. The Essences, for instance has defined the following of light over the darkness. Satan also became the perceived element behind the Pagans and Romans who were torturing and executing Christians, and yet the gospels, perhaps in order to prevent more harm to themselves, treaded lightly on Pontius Pilate and the Roman government, while venting their accusations towards what first became Judas Iscariot, then the Jewish authorities, and finally \\"the Jews\\" collectively, then transforming to other Christians that did not follow the Orthodox. In each case, the party in question identifies those with different ideologies, even within the group itself, as under the influence of Satan.     Pagels ends the book with the exception of the Gnostics, who unlike the Orthodox did not fall into the defining of enemies to Satan. While some were more radical in perceiving the God of the Hebrew scriptures as false, the more moderate generally agreed with many of the Orthodox moral and ethical teachings, while rejecting other teachings, such as the limited cannon and hierarchal conformity in the Orthodox as mislead in failing to comprehend the gnosis, but did so not under such the labeling attacks of heretic and Satanic influence.     One interesting point were some of the Gnostic interpretations of the Adam and Eve Story. One radical interpretation is that God did not tell the truth but the serpent did! The serpent was Christ! God the creator was not the highest and only, but was the demonic angel preventing Adam and Eve from the knowledge, telling them they would die, while the Serpent was speaking the truth, which can be seen by their realization of nakedness. So God, the demonic, then subjected humanity to a distracting life of sex, marriage, money, survival, the good and evil polarities, caught up in the game of life, apart from the real meaning of internal gnosis within. I'm sure there is much more on this in Pagels other book, Adam, Eve and the Serpent. It is also very interesting to see the attacks of Tertullian on any Christians who dare Socratic inquiry over scripture as in the above. All such would confuse and lead to further heresy, according to him.    It appears from the history that persons and groups of fundamentalism in their external searches for clarity, certainty and unity, limit their searches to mere acceptance without the paradox of true Socratic inquiry and the simultaneous depth of understanding without absolutes, resorting to the defining of Satan formulas for their perceived enemies. This can be seen later in Luther against the Catholics and Jews, other protestants, Jews and peasants who fought the aristocrats. And yet such confinement enemies being of Satan brought group security and solidarity.    Also were the counter points of loving one's enemies and forgiving others before offering your gift at the altar, along with St. Pauls adnomition to consign a man to Satan in order to help him repent and not be confined to hell or spiritual death.    In contrast it is those without absolutes with the willingness to expand their internal subjective journey, ceasing to force group conformity, were those who exhibited toleration and did not fall under the certain identification, nor reality of a literal Satan and demonic influences. Such can seen in St. Francis of Assisi and Martin Luther King, Jr. and in the Gnostics. While there are many variations in Gnostic teachings, in the sense are like many other mystics and universal groups throughout history. Pagels concludes her book: \\"I hope that this research may illuminate for others, as it has for me, the struggle within Christian tradition between the profoundly human view that \\"otherness\\" is evil and the words of Jesus that reconciliation is divine.\\" p.184    The whole idea is that fundamentalists, biblical literalists and those that grasp on to formulas and absolutes, require literal beliefs and the adjoining accusations against their opponents, and any that think differently, labeling them as agents of Satan, heretics &etc., while the prophetic voices, those able to live in faith without humanly formulated structures, and live in degrees of insecurity and uncertainty, they can be tolerant and inclusive and cease the literal beliefs and the subsequent attacks of others, walking internally with courage and strength.    Interestingly, today's American fundamenalist, traditionalist, convervative, conservative religionist and those that need their personal formulations, agendas and non-pragmatic lenses to view reality through, use the word \\"liberal\\" to define any opposition, small or large. Liberal is the new word replacing the older buzz words of Satan and heretic. The intolerance of the vulernability needed to grow in democratic unity is trashed and the same method of name calling remains.	2005-01-10
US	52783335	R1T4WVS2HXKT5Q	0452285674	569076996	The Best Democracy Money Can Buy	Books	5	20	26	N	Y	Forget About CNN and Fox and Read This	This book is a breath of fresh air, non-partisan reporting for a change. And even if it's not all completely accurate, it speaks volumes above and beyond CNN and the rest of the \\"most trusted news\\" media. While the majority of the world exists in poverty and unimaginable suffering, the corporate giants and governments of the developed world are working deals in partisan and monetary interests in a league outside from the working masses. And the real truth behind the visage, who reports this stuff? The corporate controlled media? Of course not. What they report is always bias, snippets of truth sandwiched between slanted stories of corporate and government controlled media.     For years now I've been watching the media and have given up in the bourgeois mind melt of the believing public in a news media that falsely claims to report truth as their main objective. And Palast's book is worth the read. This version is an updated one from the 2002 edition, and was apparently a New York Times bestseller. It's amazing how this book was not prevented from publishing. I mean the amount of weight the many parties involved in the book carry, you would think this book would get lost somewhere, never to be found. But since it's not, I'm glad for the opportunity to read it. It's really a very educational book, to say the least    In this Palast exposes both Republicans, Democrats and many Corporate giants in areas from environmental, pharmaceutical, financial (of course), evangelical and etc. Good information on the 2000 presidential election, the WTO, the World Bank and IMF, Bush, Gore, Robertson and Blair, nuclear waste, oil spills, Wallmart, OPEC and Chavez, BST hormone & etc. Really, you'll get a good education with this book. Of course, there's no use arguing this stuff with the partisan views and fundamentalists, which is like driving a car into a brick wall. And really, if you open your eyes and mind, you'll know that our so-called democracy only lives in a misused, misguided word, which definition radically changes from year to year, while the real meaning resides in the history books.    One thing I do get out of this book, whether it's the WTO, IMF, World Bank and all the Corporations, is that it's the LLM's manifesto on page 283, which states that \\"leaders who lead today are antique creatures of the Passing World. Today, markets lead. Industry CEOs lead. In the Emerging World, prime ministers and presidents merely 'listen.'\\" It's as though the new \\"Popes,\\" with the power of the medieval Popes, are emerging as the new leaders, the corporate giants, who through the market and partisan monetary ventures that only benefit the elites, will rule the world in an unethical, authoritarian structure. Only this time around, with technology, both the environment and extreme totalitarianism are the stakes.	2005-01-07
US	52783335	R3G0R6668M3ND	1594200297	499059352	Democracy Matters: Winning the Fight Against Imperialism	Books	5	50	60	N	Y	Outstanding Book	This book is outstanding. It outlines our anti-democratic conditions permeating American democracy, both domestically and in foreign policy and draws on the deep foundations of democratic traditions needed to draw on to combat what have lost. We have reached a rare fork in the road and it is crucial to draw on such democratic energies.    West outlines three antidemocratic dogmas that dominate our current political climate:     1. Free-market fundamentalism, which trivializes the concern of public interest. The overwhelming power and influence of plutocrats and oligarchs in the economy put fear and insecurity in the hearts of anxiety-ridden workers and render money-driven, poll obsessed elected officials deferential to corporate goals of profit often at the cost of the common good.    2. Aggressive militarism. This new U.S. doctrine goes beyond preventive war but puts the green lights on the elites to sacrifice soldiers, mostly of the working and poor classes, fueling a foreign campaign which does away with multilateral decisions to that of unilateral, lone ranger imperialistic colonial invasions, all for the sole benefit of the government regardless of all others and societies.    3. Escalating authoritarianism, which is tightening security in replace of liberty and freedom. The Patriot Act is only the beginning, as we will see escalated censorship and rights removed.    In this West brings out three common forms of anti-democratic nihilism:    1. Evangelical nihilism. This is the idea that might makes right, as in Thrasymachus argument in Plato's Republic. The stronger U.S. must use its military power to quiet dissenters. All must obey and submit to our correct interpretations of culture. The evangelical spirit sharply gravitates towards militancy and censorship against all views that differ, especially dissenting views and those that employ Socratic inquiry.    2. Parental nihilism. This is found in both Democrats and Republicans, that is, the ideas that the leaders will not resort to the proletariat decisions, but rather remain in charge to work within the corrupt system to make the necessary changes, the idea that it is useless to do otherwise.    3. Sentimental nihilism. This is found in the cowardly lack of willingness to engage in truth telling, even at the cost of social ills, to forfeit the comfortable life for the sake of exposing truth to help others, as in many former slave owners and today in the media where they are drawn to their corporate owned sponsors and what sells a story. Monetary interests clearly outweigh the truth, dialogue is limited, questions are reduced and thus the answers are reduced to the range limits of the questions in the vulgar partisanship corrupting our public life.    While we see such antidemocratic views permeating America and the middle east, both with the Palestinians and with Israel, with oppressive policies and imperialism, West brings out there are those that are aware and that our future depends on those who embrace our deep democratic traditions that fuel true democratic energies. However, we must recognize the schizophrenic nature of the American democratic experiment in peoples who rebelled from British imperialism in favor of American imperialism over the Native American Indians, doing so with African American slaves. So there was always this dual nature in the American democratic experiement. To acknowledge the past is needed and then to reject the imperialistic tendencies and to draw on the democratic energies of Ralph Waldo Emerson, Walt Whitman, Melville, Gertrude Stein, James Baldwin, Frederick Douglass, Martin Luther King, Jr., Toni Morrison and others. In this, West lists three democratic energies, which are:    1. The Socratic inquiry to fully examine government domestically and foreign. To question and fight censorship and corporate profit driven media from slanting the truths. This is the polar opposite from the fundamentalist and absolutist that defines all actionsaccording to their predetermined meanings and then attacks with full vengence.    2. The Judeo-Christian prophetic view. This is the great tradition of mercy and justice of the prophets and of Christ, that enable social programs and genuine concern for the poor, the needy and the working class, to put individuals above corporate profits, monetary interests and imperialistic conquests. Just as you find the prophetic discarded by the Christian fundamentalists control in the Bush administration, you can find this same parallel situation in Israel, where the Jewish fundamentalists, attacks the prophetic Jewish voices of equality and social justice. West believes that those voices of democratic moderation are found in Rabbi Michael Lerner and Abraham Joshua Heschel.     3. Tragicomic hope. This is the crucial ability to cease from revenge, hatred and despair, to retain strength and integrity towards democratic equality with inner strength, despite the attacking hatred and vengeance directed towards one. And this West points out, can be found in the African American's treatment as outcasts, hated as inferior, and yet ceasing to return revengeful hate and not falling into despair, expressing themselves in the music of the Blues, Jazz and original Hip Hop and some Rap. This is the way to deal with slanderous, attacks from the fundamentalists and their hate.    West goes into the concept of Muslim democracy apart from Western domination, the abuses of the Judeo-Christian religious fundamentalism and its sharp contrast with the Judeo-Christian prophetic views. West calls these two types, Constantinian Christianity, from the government of Constantine backed imperialistic injustice, and prophetic Christianity, that of social democratic justice and democratic values.	2005-01-04
US	52783335	R2OVUJR8HA899Z	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	5	4	10	N	Y	Powerful Existential Warning	A very meaningful book. I was taken back at how intense it turned out to be; socially, politically, psychologically and existentially. And it really gives one the awful nausea that Sartre spoke of and the angst of Kierkegaard, the existential despair, emptiness, loneliness, the awful outcome that leaves you with a sour pain in the pit in your stomach. But that is only if you remain too attached and subjective. On the other hand, if you can detach yourself from this book and view it objectively, it is the most meaningful and explanatory lesson in awareness to the distinct and very real possibility of a utopian world gone bad. This book is a valid warning.<br /><br />The book is brilliant, portraying an authoritarian government that recreates all thought, erases all history, negating it all into solipsism, that all reality is simply the creation of man - The Party of Ingsoc-  and in doing so melts into a radical blind relativism. Ingsoc, the Party of Big Brother which rules, also attempts to create an entirely new form of language - Newspeak - that reduces the variations of meanings to prevent people from independent thinking. In this new language, the word called, \\"Doublethink means the power of holding two contradictory beliefs in one's mind simultaneously, and accepting both of them . . The process has to be conscious, or it would not be carried out with sufficient precision, but it also has to be unconscious, or it would bring with it a feeling of falsity and hence of guilt.\\"<br /><br />It's ironic, but ultimately the fundamentalists are blind relativists in that they violently enforce their view and then change to a completely new view - new history, and then re-enforce this view in staunch, one-sided fundamentalism. This is truly blind relativism, which is different from cultural relativism and pragmatism, where there can still be a limited form of relativism that retains values, but not in the world of Big Brother. This is important because there is a huge difference between mindless relativism and the compartmentalization of absolutes in pragmatism, which maintains value retention while tolerating cultural differences. But in Big Brother, all becomes a relativistic void for the Party, which uses hate, fear and torture to achieve its end goal, the goal of power; power for the Inner Party.<br /><br />The government of Orwell's 1984 is different from all the previous authoritarian governments, as it does not fool itself that it trying to help the people. At the end of the current edition is a short essay of Erich Fromm, with an analogy in comparison to two other negative utopian novels with three other positive utopian novels and how society went from such positive idealism to the recognition of negative possibilities in the direction of our future and how our responsibilities and the limited amount of time humanity has as a species to make the necessary changes towards heeding this warning and directing itself towards the positive outcome.<br /><br />Despite the outcome and utter despair the book leaves you with, the valuable lesson speaks for itself. And I think in America, we must recognize our free-market fundamentalist mentality, our military bullying and authoritarian nature that puts the dollar and large corporate control over the proletariat. We need to value Orwell's warning and work towards repairing the great democratic dream of a equalitarian society that puts the rights of the individual ahead of monetary gain and looks towards the preservation of our environment - to restore the ideas of Emerson, Whitman and James and pragmatist values of democratic government actively engaged by the educated working classes.<br /><br />The year 2005 represents a major time for America (Amerika) to wake up from the partisan, unilateral decisions of the Bush Administration's lone ranger policies, which include torture (congress just re-defined this word!) and lies. And in addition to the United States Imperialism, there is another major serious global development resembling Big Brother which has already begun; the WTO (World Trade Organization), well underway with a pseudo-democratic, secretive, powerful, small elite group of plutocrats (mostly United States corporations) enforcing global limits on protective government regulations, reducing environmental protections and proletariat rights, all so under a \\"newspeak\\" (rhetorical-beneficial) language of \\"free-trade.\\" Orwell has become a superior prophet over Nostradamus.<br /><br />\\"Is not a matter of whether the war is not real or if it is. Victory is not possible. The war is not meant to be won. It is meant to be continuous. A hierarchical society is only possible on the basis of poverty and ignorance. This new version is the past. And no different past can ever have existed. In principle, the war effort is always planned to keep society on the brink of starvation. The war is waged by the ruling group against its own subjects. And its object is not the victory over either Eurasia or Eastasia, but to keep the very structure of society in tact.\\" George Orwell, 1984<br /><br />\\"In a way, the world-view of the Party imposed itself most successfully on people incapable of understanding it. They could be made to accept the most flagrant violations of reality, because they never fully grasped the enormity of what was demanded of them, and were not sufficiently interested in public events to notice what was happening. By lack of understanding they remained sane. They simply swallowed everything, and what they swallowed did them no harm, because it left no residue behind, just as a grain of corn will pass undigested through the body of a bird.\\" p. 156<br /><br />WAR IS PEACE - and great profits are gained by large corporate military contractors and the vast oil supply (Halliburton). The economic gain is not for the working class, but for the corporate elites and their private ownerships. Thus the government remains financed and ready for further imperial maneuvers.<br /><br />FREEDOM IS SLAVERY - and we now have tight security measures, wire tapping, censorship and the Patriot Act. All of this enslaves us and removes many of our liberties and private rights, all so for the sake of keeping our freedom secure, slavery to protect freedom. Ultimately, censorship prevents the working class from Socratic inquiry of government policies, thus the government remains in tact. Labor parties, Poplulists-Farmers, Feminists, African Americans/Civil rights, evironmental protections, minimum wage requirements and the working man and woman themselves loose their rights and voices of active participation. They are simply \\"prols,\\" while the corporate elite, the plutocrats increase their rule, working their way towards totality. Open Democracy and human rights die, aristocracy enslavement lives, all so to protect the freedom of the country.<br /><br />IGNORANCE IS STRENGTH - and to remain in ignorance is keep the proletariat quietly content in his mediocre existence, either in poverty or struggle, ceasing the time, strength and desire for Socratic inquiry of government policies. The result; mindless flag waving nationalism. Ignorance masked under the newspeak of \\"Free Trade\\" and radical privatization without regulatory control leads to monopolistic corporate state owned society. And the flags keep waving. The breakup of a Hollywood couple takes the headlines, while WTO is quiet in the media background. The elite in Control increase and maintain strength. Ignorance is strength.	2005-01-03
US	52783335	R2M08R5WWEF1DI	1559391014	495811736	The Tibetan Yogas Of Dream And Sleep	Books	5	31	36	N	Y	Ancient & Profound Wisdom	I found this book philosophical, religious and profound. It's not a philosophical book in the Western sense, although Tenzin Wangyal Rinpoche takes on various western thoughts and expounds the Eastern Bon view. Apparently, the Bon Tibetan view predates the Tibetan Buddhist, although both are very similar and inter-connected. I found this book truly impressive, especially where Tenzig touches on certain philosophical ideas.    The definition Tenzig states on karmic traces is profound in itself.    \\"The Karmic Trace is that of every action - physical, verbal, or mental - undertaken by an individual, if performed with intention and even the slightest aversion or desire, leaves a trace in the mindstream of that individual. The accumulation of these karmic traces serves to condition every moment of experience of that individual, positively and negatively.\\" p. 215    His essay arguing against some Western psychologists who oppose lucid dreaming, I found entirely credible, more dynamic in the control needed to direct our lives both in this life and the hereafter. From pages 131-132    \\"Some schools of Western psychology believe it is harmful to control dreams, that dreams are a regulatory function of the unconscious or a form of communication between parts of ourselves that should not be disturbed. This view suggests that the unconscious exists and that it is a repository of experience and meaning. The unconscious is thought to form the dream and embed in it meaning that will either be explicit and obvious or latent and in need of interpretation. In this context, the self is often thought to be composed of the unconscious and conscious aspects of the individual, and the dream is thought to be a necessary medium of communication between the two. The conscious self can then benefit by working with the dream or from the balancing of physiological processes through the dream-making activity.    Understanding emptiness radically changes our understanding of the dreaming process. These three entities - the unconscious, the meaning, and the conscious self - are all entities that exist only through imputing reality to that which by itself has none. It is important to understand what is being said here. The concern that the encroachment of the conscious mind upon the unconscious is damaging to natural processes makes sense if you posit the elements of the situation as discrete elements of the individual, working in cooperation with one another. But this view understands only one dimension of the individual's internal dynamics, often to the detriment of a more expansive identity.    As mentioned earlier, there are two levels of working with dreams. One involves finding meaning in the dream. This is good, and it is the level of most of the Western psychologies that accord value to dreams. In both the East and the West, it is understood that dreams can be sources o creativity, solutions to problems, diagnosis of ills, and so on. But the meaning in dreams is not inherent to the dream; it is being projected onto the dream by the individual examining the dream and then is \\"read\\" from the dream. The process is much like describing the images and they seem to appear in the ink-spot tests used by some psychologists. The meaning does not exist independently. Meaning does not exist until someone starts to look for it. Our mistake is that rather than seeing the truth of the situation, we begin to think that there really is an unconscious, a thing, and that the dream is real, like a scroll with a secret message written on it in code that if cracked, anyone could read.    We need a deeper understanding of what the dream is, of what experience is, to truly utilize dreaming as an approach to enlightenment. When we practice deeply, many wonderful dreams will arise, rich with signs of progress. But ultimately the meaning in the dream is not important. It is best not to regard the dream as correspondence from one another entity to you, not even from another part of you that you do not know. There is no conventional meaning outside of the dualism of samsara. This view is not a giving in to chaos; there is no chaos or meaninglessness either, these are more concepts. It may sound strange, but this idea of meaning must be abandoned before the mind can find complete liberation. And doing this is the essential purpose of dream practice.      We do not ignore the use of meaning in dreaming. But it is good to recognize that there is also dreaming in meaning. Why expect great messages from a dream? Instead penetrate to what is below meaning, the pure base of experience. This is the higher dream practice - not psychological, but more spiritual - concerned with recognizing and realizing the fundament of experience, the unconditioned. When you progress to this point, you are unaffected by whether there is a message in the dream or not. Then you are complete, your experience is complete, you are free form the conditioning that arises from dualistic interactions with the projections of your own mind.\\"    Now you must have degrees of faith to endorse this thesis, but in realty, all philosophies, religious ideals, even scientific analysis, all take in paradigms that require enveloping subjectivity to objectively observe and follow course with the particular thesis. And ultimately, besides this philosophy, written in clear, definable, educated language, it carries the childlike nave ability in it's required faith in visualizations, verbal mantras and the very idea of existence after death.    Ultimately, it is one essay on the Mind and the Rigpa that I personally found enlightening and opening to other venues of thought. And this brings much more meaning to the act of meditation itself, as it reveals there is more to meditative concentration then the benefits in this life, but also in death to either prevent oneself from entering the bardo of becoming or handle such existence with more clarity and possibly bring forth rebirth in higher frequencies of existence.    From pages 188-191 \\"The conceptual or moving mind is that familiar mind of everyday experience, constantly busy with thoughts, memories, images, internal dialogues, judgments, meanings, emotions, and fantasies. It is the mind normally identified as \\"me\\" and \\"my experience.\\" Its fundamental dynamic is engagement with a dualistic vision of existence. It takes itself to be a subject in a world of objects. It grasps at some parts of experience and pushes others ways. It is reactive, wildly so sometimes, but even when it is extremely calm and subtle - for example, during meditation or intense concentration - it maintains the internal posture of an entity observing its environment and continues to participate in dualism.     The conceptual mind is not limited to language and ideas. Language - with its nouns and verbs, subjects and objects - is necessarily subject to dualism, but the conceptual mind is active in us before the acquisition of language. Animals have a conceptual mind, in this sense, as do infants and those born without the capacity for language. It is result of habitual karmic tendencies that are present before we develop a sense of self, even before we are born. Its essential characteristic is that it instinctively divides experience dualistically, beginning with subject and object, with me and not-me.    The fundamental reality of mind is pure, non-dual awareness, Rigpa. Its essence is one with the essence of all that exists. In practice, it must not be confused with even the subtlest, quietest, and most expansive states of the moving mind. Unrecognized, the nature of mind manifests as the moving mind, but when it is known directly it is both the path to liberation and liberation itself.    When the conceptual mind is free of grasping and aversion, it spontaneously relaxes into unfabricated Rigpa. Then there is no longer identification with the reflections in the mirror and we can effortlessly accommodate all that arises in experience, appreciating every movement. If hatred arises, the mirror is filled with hatred. When love arises, the mirror is filled with love. For the mirror itself, neither love nor hatred is significant; both are equally a manifestation of its innate capacity to reflect. This is known as the mirror-lie wisdom; when we recognize the nature of mind and develop the ability to abide in it, no emotional state distracts us. Instead, all states and all phenomena, even anger jealously, and so on, are released into the purity and clarity that is their essence. Abiding in Rigpa, we cut karma at its root and are released from the bondage of samsara.\\"	2004-12-30
US	52783335	RBSA386ZX9CQZ	0618057072	20096665	The Origin of Consciousness in the Breakdown of the Bicameral Mind	Books	5	14	17	N	Y	Radical, Historical Eye-Opener & World View	This book contains more than just another view on history. It's definately altered my world historical view. If the thesis is accurate, then it changes scores of current teachings, trashing many erroneous religious and cultural beliefs. I found Jaynes hypothesis very convincing, but have serious reservations. The last time I read a book of this sort, which I recommend reading, is Mircea Eliade's, The Myth of The Eternal Return, Cosmos and History. These two books together are amazing pieces of the historical puzzle in the development of human existence. Eliade's, Sacred and Profane is yet another.    Jayne explains this phenomenon briefly describing the human brain's layout, in it's right organizational skills and it's left motor skills (varying in individuals) and in various scans and tests on patients in hallucinatory states, in Schizophrenics and in Tourette's syndrome brain functions and then uses his theory on history with what I found as a credible analogy, detailed and extensive to back up this view.     This answers the long sought questions of why the Iliad so differs from the Odyssey, why the Old Testament differs in its older writings from its newer and from the New Testament. Why civilizations had the religious foundations, rites and political structures as they did. The answer Jayne produces is the two chambered or bicameral mind of our evolutionary human ancestors, where the right hemisphere lobe produced hallucinatory visual and auditory images and voices, in the human mind that lacked a self-conscious as we know it. In this he or she strictly obeyed their inner voice or multiple voices. You can see this in various accounts of the ancient bicameral minds of ancient Egypt, Assyria and the later self-conscious mind accounts of Assyria and Babylon and so forth. In this, various statues-idols, dead bodies of kings, family members and so forth were used as living images to the inner voices that were so clearly heard. And such inner voices could have been the temporary right hemisphere similiar to the ancient bicameral mind in the more recent historical visions in Faust's vision of Mestophecles, Dante's vision of Virgil, in the writings of Milton and William Blake.    For instance, the ancient Hebrew prophet Amos followed his bicameral inner voice, while the book of Ecclesiastes was clearly the work of the self-conscious \\"I\\" in human self-reflections. The scores of references Jayne's supplies are more than slight. To possibly understand the \\"ka\\" of ancient Egypt is for me truly priceless in defining their world view. To perhaps understand the visions of Moses, the invention of the soul, the reasons for divination and games of chance, the bicameral voices of Samuel in the Old Testament, the use of personal terrapins and idols; these all are consistent with Jayne's bicameral thesis and seriously profound in viewing world history.     To see the comparisons of the bicameral mind to the gradual shift of the self-conscious \\"I\\" is great thinking theory. The longing for such voices in various cultures can be seen over and over again. The god's truly ceased speaking, their internal voices silenced, and were frantically attempted to revive by kings and priests creating laws and written codes to supplement this crucial loss in human evolutionary existence. The Hebrew prophets for instance, may have retained the bicameral mind, hearing what they perceived as the voice of God. While such prophets existed in small groups, their genocide was the natural selection of the stronger, which resulted in destroying their genetic pools to reproduce in favor of the self-conscious humans, which perhaps would have been the result anyway    It's also very intriguing of the idea of so-called religious and spirit possessions being that of another sort of bicameral function in the occurrence of right brain function overtaking the left conscious completely in awareness, facial contortions and motor skills, primarily in language. Not only that, butit answers the questions to the possessions of the Oracle in Delphi's trancelike state of the priestess, the Sibyls who retained respect as valid in ancient circles including the early Christian church. I'm utterly amazed at the very idea of valid Sibyls, outside of the many fantasy stories of the magical past.    What is not specifically mentioned in this book, but raised in this whole thesis, is the question of psychedelics. Are psychedelics perhaps a doorway to another dimension of life, life after death, or simply the bicameral mind? And, were the early mystical religious writings influenced from psychedelics or simply the bicameral mind? Or both? Perhaps like music, it builds up excitation on the right hemisphere of the brain, spreading to areas adjacent serving divine auditory hallucinations.    I also raise another outside question, that of what the Bon and Tibetan Buddhists call the thoughtless state of \\"Rigpa,\\" or the natural state of mind and the hallucinations of the bardo of dharmata, displayed in colors, sounds and lights, and thought realms in the bardo of the becoming, the Nirmanakay. Could these states of consciousness also be some type of function of the bicameral mind?     However, what strikes me as erroneous is the idea that animals and those without language do have conceptual minds more advanced than mere perception and in this, they do not appear to have bicameral hallucinatory voices that they \\"must\\" obey. But even more so, after reading a book on the Egyptians I do not support the bicameral mind theory on their worship of the dead and find fault overall with this hypothesis.    So as another reviewer asked, can we reduce history to this possibility of bicameral mind function in the gradual breakdown from stress to the self-conscious \\"I,\\" or should we view history as God's voice and actions truly involved with human affairs?	2004-12-27
US	52783335	RULM7SE2D8RYO	0062508342	991854871	The Tibetan Book of Living and Dying: The Spiritual Classic & International Bestseller: 20th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	18	29	N	N	A Deeper Meaning to Meditation & Aid In Dying	I have found this a substantial book, one of valuable information, worth the time invested. I am not a person of formulas, recognizing the ambiguity in existence, differentiating from stagnation in frozen logic in blue prints of absolutes and that of relativity, which dwells in values but with the ability to adjust in flexible variations according to the particular and continually changing positions. And yet here is a formula, however I put a degree of value in such as to other sources that in relative ways confirm this. First, the fact that near-death experiences from both patients and doctors, both Eastern and Western, have similar relational interpretations to this book appears to confirm it's value, as opposed to formulas based on mere speculation.. I would like to cite its antiquity and that of my admiration for Buddhist concepts, but that is speculative and such arguments are used in many erroneous concepts which support contradicting teachings. However, along with near-death experiences, there are also the recorded experiences of psychedelic plant users, both observed objectively and experienced subjectively, which appear to conform to much of the bardos written about in the Tibetan Book of the Dead. The Doctors Timothy Leary, Richard Albert and Ralph Metzler had also connected such experiences with this and in their book, The Psychedelic Experience, along with various other intellectuals, spiritual and divinity students, psychologists and various other students in the discovery of the mind. And third, the application which Sogyal Rionpoche has given to the different bardos applied to the processes of sleep and dreaming and that of the thought process itself in human thinking, I think brings forth much value to this writing, to be taken in serious considerations, within degrees of course. So with these three factors, I find this book extremely enlightening and beneficial for the studies in science, spirituality and anthropomorphic interpretations on thedeath experience.    This book reveals the Tibetan guru disciple culture, far apart from charlatan practices of religious cults so prevalent in Western culture. This guru-disciple relationship is crucial in the Tibetan culture, joined in with years of spiritual practice in meditation and mind recognition comparable to western psychology that emulates Eastern Buddhist thinking. Sogyal Rinpoche writes of the impermanence of human life and how death is so crucially important as a part of life and the denial of such in the Western culture. His analysis of the nature of the mind, the Rigpa, and different meditative methods, mantras, objects, posture & etc., of bringing the mind back home, out from its habitual karmic thoughts into the \\"gaps\\" or spaces between thoughts into the true nature of the mind, the silent unchanging pure awareness of true self behind all thoughts, the delicate balance and paradox of relaxation and awareness.     In this, there is karma, the laws of cause and effect based on both individual and collective intentions which result in actions, the intensions or motivations behind them as their strength and how karmic creativity determines how we as artists dance to life in either positive or negative thoughts. It is here we must take full responsibility as this will determine our future lives and habitual thinking.    The first bardo is birth, the second is one's lifetime from childhood through adulthood, the third is the moment before death, the fourth begins the clear light of pure consciousness in the journey in death and beginning of a series of opportunities for the soul or consciousness that is departing the body. If the soul recognizes the clear light it becomes free from the karmic wheel with no more need to incarnate. In the fifth bardo the clear becomes dull and one encounters the peaceful and wrathful gods of desire and aversion. The sixth bardo is that of reincarnation, the opportunities have been missed and the soul must be physically reborn.     In the bardo of dying we loose all habitual perceptions and obtain a momentary glimpse of naked consciousness, the Ground Luminosity. However only experienced meditators, or those that have achieved degrees of mental awareness in the gaps beyond habitual thought of grasping and aversion during their life will even recognize this, for the rest it is as though we are unconscious and never become aware to this, the opportunity is lost. We then enter in the bardo of dharmata, also a fleeting and momentary glimpse, of our energy body with dazzling array of colors and patterns. There are instructions as to what the various colors mean and actions to take, which points to our attachments of grasping and aversions and fears. Most of us also are anaware of what is happening and enter into the bardo of becoming, where we exist as a mental body. It is here we are extremely vulnerable to our thoughts, where our life training determines how we think and what happens to us. One positive thought can immediately send us to bliss, one negative to hell. We can witness our bodies, other people and roam about. We can deny we are dead, are hungry thinking we have a body, where incense or smoke can act as pleasures to whatever sense is still remaining as a mental body.     There are the practices of tonglen and phowa, consisting of mental visualizations and mantras for ourselves, the dead and all sentient beings. There are the methods of increasing compassion and the definition of what that really means.  Sogyal instructs us not only how to die, but how to help others that are dying, the relatives and those who wish to help those dying and those who have already died. Sogyal also goes into the near death experiences as written about by Raymond Moody and Kenneth Ring and the thoughts on dying of Elizabeth Kubler-Ross.     I particularly enjoyed how Sogyal compares the processes of the bardos as the same processes in our thinking we do every day, as well as the process of sleeping and dreaming we also perform daily. At the culmination of the process of dying, we experience the Dharmakaya, after the dissolution of elements, senses, and thought-states, the ultimate nature of the mind, the Ground Luminosity, is for a moment laid bare. We are empty, perceive the unconditioned truth. Then we experience the fleeting nature of energy in bardo of dharmata, the Samhogakaya, displayed in colors, sounds and lights, the dimension of complete enjoyment beyond dualism and space and time. And then we awaken in the bardo of the becoming, the Nirmanakay, as we attach ourselves again to our habits of thinking, clinging to our illusionary perceptions as real and solid when in reality it is only our mind, not external reality. Much of this occurs in certain degrees when we sleep and when we think. Like the Ground Luminosity, unaware we enter into a gap, the Rigpa where thoughts arise. If we are aware, we can let the thoughts go and rest in awareness. Yet, it is here, simliar to existing in the bardo of becoming, where most of us then cling, grasp and attach to the thoughts produced, carrying us into mental and conceptual activity.    Sogyal also goes into science and physics comparing thoughts of David Bohm, which I found truly enlightening and substantial in the ideas endorsed in this book and the teachings of Tibetan Buddhism in general. This book has much more information that cannot be all explained in a short review. I was pleasantly surprised at how well Sogyal Rinpoche conveyed his subject and I found this book wonderful in the spiritual exploration of the mind, meditation and ultimately the realm of death and our preparation for it.	2004-12-20
US	52783335	R2C05QK4MS7W21	0375703160	81872394	Beyond Belief: The Secret Gospel of Thomas	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Crucial Knowledge For Religious Students & Christians	After so many years of reading the four gospels and especially John, I had no idea of the background revealed in the writings of the Nag Hammandi, or Gnostic accounts. Its amazing how so many people mold their lives from the gospels without this crucial knowledge. After reading the gospel of Thomas and comparing the differences, it can be seen that John was writing much of his account to protest the gospel of Thomas, who he labeled as \\"doubting Thomas,\\" since Thomas endorsed individual subjective experience beyond the grasp of doctrine over all dogmas and orthodox hierarchy that based all its unity on such formulated, spelled-out teachings. So it was Thomas that John had Jesus speaking the words, \\"No one comes to the Father except through me,\\" and \\"I am the way, the life and the truth.\\" Thomas and many other schools of Christians and teachers conveyed a Christianity that entered areas apart from grasping dogmas and schematics; to find Christ was to look inside the self, to see the subjective internal experience to find the light within the self and become an enlightened \\"twin\\" of Christ. He was not an external model to follow (I remember Ralph Waldo Emerson's same words on this) but rather a model for us to find the light within ourselves and become a son of God the very same as Christ, as Christ was not considered as a divine being above humanity. And this sparked the name calling attacks by Iraneaus, labeling such as agents of Satan, evil, foolish, apostates and so forth.    The goal of Iraneaus was to one day unify the church into one orthodox Catholic church, as the Christians were under constant attacks, being murdered and tortured by the Roman authorities. And yet, while Ireaneus did allow much diversity, he drew the line with certain teachings, refusing to accept many who were even considered spiritual bishops of great magnitude and their subsequent congregations of various Gnostic and schools of Christian teachings that fell outside of the orthodox dogmas.Now you can see this removes the fall from Eden for a perfect divine man as ransom. The fall itself is explained in this beautiful concept how Adam and Eve were instructed. In the Secret book of John, human beings have an innate capacity to know God, not by teachings of creeds, but by glimpses into his internal being, the divine reality. Eve's birth from Adam's side speaks of the awakening of this spiritual capacity, the epinoia, a creative, inventive consciousness that is awake only through personal subjective experience, mystical visions, dreams, and awareness beyond dogmas and creeds. And she helps Adam restoring him to his full Beinghood by teaching him about his decent, the way to ascend. Eve was a gift of spiritual understanding, enabling us to reflect upon the ineffable within ourselves    Another book of the Nag Hammadi, states that Adam and Eve saw that they were naked meant that they were made aware to the luminous epinoia or glimpses into spiritual dimensions beyond discursive reasonings, something personified in feminine references, with hints and glimpses, images and stories that imperfectly point beyond themselves toward what we cannot now fully understand - St. Paul's hazy mirror.    It was here that many of the various sects taught and performed second baptisms. The first baptism was one based on faith, as in Jesus healing the officer's daughter in his simple act of faith, while the second was on the epinoia, the gnosis or knowing that occurred symbolically in the illustration of Jesus speaking to the Samaritan woman at the well with the living water where one would never get thirsty. And this epinoia was a spiritual dimension found in all of humanity, not excluded to those who have faith in an orthodox doctrine on the nature of Christ. So it is above and beyond all doctrines and universal orthodox catholic teachings, it is an internal light within the self to find these glimpses of life giving water, something Irenaeus and his orthodox successorsso adamantly and violently opposed accusing all who endorsed such as heretics with heretic writings, writings later ordered to be destroyed. Thus the monk, Muhammad Ali (not a boxer) buried his scrolls, which were eventually found 1600 years later.    In this the stories, illustrations and various images of the scriptures, as in the resurrection, the virgin birth and so forth, were recognized as anthropomorphic images formed to the epinoia as teachings to seek higher awareness of the spiritual dimensions found in the self which Christ himself found within and we as his \\"twins\\" could also become the light as he was.    In the gospel of Phillip, Phillip writes that while many claim to be Christians, they are not completely in that they were only baptized but they have not been spiritually transformed in the gnosis, concluding that all believers, if not in this world then in another, will one day be transformed into the gnosis or the knowing. Whoever undergoes this tranformation, Phillip says \\"will no longer be a Christian but a Christ.\\" This is a major difference in what we know as traditional Christianity. A person who becomes a Christ, is not an adherent to dogmas and orthodox creeds, nor any religious organization, but one who knows,(gnosis) him or herself as a Christ.    If Irenaeus were to simply allow all the diversity perhaps the religion itself would not have acquired the strength to endure the horrendous persecutions of the Romans. It was later that Constantine legalized Christianity and it appears that it was not he who lacked tolerance, however he sided with the Orthodox in tax breaks and financing of the Orthodox and rejection of the Gnostics and other various sects that differed from orthodox teachings. It was the successor to Irenaeus, Athanasius who carried on the orthodox attack of the other so-called heretics and against the bishop Arius who did not teach the divinity of Christ. Thus the Nicene Creed was created. And by making Christ equal to God, theapostolic authority would remain in tact with the Orthodox church as the authoritative hierarchal structure to obey with the government's backing.    What also makes this book so interesting is that it reveals how the Protestants, while rejecting the hierarchy of the Catholic Church, retained the majority of the creeds, including the Nicene Creed, and in turn rejected the subjective visionary experience. Thus they interpreted and retained the dogmas and external teachings as of higher significance over the subjective experience and realm of the Tillichian expression, the \\"God beyond God.\\" In this respect, it is perhaps the Pentecostals and various Charismatic sects that have appeared to have revitalized this visionary subjective experience, and yet even they have retained the exclusivity of doctrinal obedience to the divinity of Christ and many other dogmatic teachings, which make them differ sharply from the Gnostics and various early Christian sects that the Orthodoxy opposed.	2004-12-20
US	52783335	R16ORMUIA3Y9UB	0898002044	655993968	Insights of a Himalayan Pilgrim (Tibetan Art and Culture Series)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Pictorially Evocative Language of Religious Experience	I highly recommend this book. After reading, I can see this book is from both a Lama and a former westerner. But much more than that, it's written in somewhat of a Jungian style, and that's what I mean by a westerner who is also a Lama, a devoted experiential Buddhist with years of life experience. Anotherwards, like Jung, it contains the Western intellectual comprehension and is in no way blinded by such scholarship of objectivity, but accented, enhanced, or shall I say enlightened, by the Eastern frame of non-discursive understanding of symbols and pictorial visualizations which can only come from the depths of understanding through subjective experience.    \\"Art is the living expression of religion. Religion without art is a dead system of dogmas, which have no effect on life. As long as Buddhism was reduced to the narrow confines of a monastic community, it exhausted itself in dogmatic quarrels and discussions which had no effect on the lay-community, but with the advent of Mahayana Buddhism the greatest works of art in India were created, and Buddhism spread its message over the greater part of Asia.\\" p. 64    \\"The realm of religious life is a specific form of human experience, or, better, an expression of an inner experience. Therefore no objective scientific description can ever do justice to the realm of religion, since it cannot grasp what is most essential. At the very moment in which the subjective experience is treated as the object of intellectual observation or inquiry, it is robbed of its aliveness and immediacy.\\" P. 89    \\"The Buddha neither claimed to be the bearer of a divine revelation nor of preaching an ancient religious tradition, but rested firmly on the basis or experience.. . . it was not Buddha's intention to invent a new theory about the origin of the world and the cosmos, but to make us aware that the only cosmos which we can observe and significantly influence is our own body with its psycho-physical functioning. He realized that the functions of our body as well as those of our consciousness are not erratic, but according to those natural laws which we interpret according to th4e level of our development and understanding and then project onto inner events. P. 95    \\"This experience of the transcendental cannot be grasped by means of logical and dialectical thinking; therefore it is also beyond the realm of verbal description. This is why in the Pali canon it is said of the Dharma, \\"Well proclaimed is the law by the Enlightened One: visible to everybody, timeless, deep, understandable only for the wise ones.\\" The simplicity of this praise of the Dharma can only become confusing for intellectuals, but those who have acquired wisdom, who have regained their inner wholeness, will immediately understand. P. 95-96    Govinda, very much like Carl Jung, speaks about Buddha's choice of synchronicity over causal and dialectic, and the need to envision a \\"pictorially evocative\\" language, that is, imagery within the self to perceive reality of the religious realm of experience. This is a crucial point of his book. He relates the problems of one-sided thinking in \\"ego-frozen\\" levels of perception. This again is the difference of dogmatic, logical, theological religion, which is dead, and that of internal visualizations coupled with understandings within subjective experiential religion, a living experience.    There is an important difference from Lama Govinda and the Tibetan Sogyal Rinpoche, who wrote in his book, The Tibetan Book of Living and Dying, that the guru disciple relationship was absolutely crucial and necessary in what he related as an alchemy of devotion that brought forth the subjective enlightened experience. While Lama Govinda acknowledges such spiritual gurus, he does not emphasise this guru disciple relationship as absolutely crucial but rather as the early part of the development of the psyche, as \\"Buddha rejected such disowning of one's discriminative faculties.\\" P. 115     \\"Although weare not endowed with universal of divine power, by opening to its influence, we can create within ourselves the readiness to become receptive to it. Light is always present, but as long as we shut it out, we remain in the dark. Even the highest power requires our own willingness to cooperate. If we emphasize our egocentricity, we close ourselves off from this power which otherwise would always be accessible.\\"    \\"The amazing fact is, that precisely at the very moment in which we are filled with this power, it will not abolish or destroy our personality. It will fill us up like a vessel, so that even at the moment when this form is breaking up and our ego-consciousness is extinguished, the uniqueness of our individuality will continue to vibrate and be transformed into a unique expression of universality which cannot be duplicated.\\"     \\"Power is not creative. It becomes creative only when meeting resistance. This is why the universal is dependent on the individual, the divine within the human being, in order to recognize itself.' P. 151    The danger of the West is to overemphasize individuality, while the East denies such. Govinda emphasizes the need to remain in the world integration, while release our egos. The idea is to transcend polarity, we do not deny either side.    The idea of deities and demons are equated to the human ability to create form for forces that do not create or destroy us, but project anthropomorphic form to such forces, which in turn, create their reality.    Govinda writes an interesting account of Hinduism being a later historical development from Buddhism and not the other way around.    Mantras and Mandala's must be coupled with understanding of both the words used and pictorial visualizations and their subsequent meanings.    Karma is not the relationship between actions, but the internal intensions of the individual, which bring forth their actions.    And on language: \\"Translators of language are often not aware that, because meaningshifted in the course of millennia, even a literal translation gives the modern reader incurred ideas, since the modern reader is used to thinking in abstract terms and is no longer rooted in the pictorially evocative language of ancient times.\\" P. 103	2004-12-08
US	52783335	R2CO4JDERRWG3V	0915144093	459468080	The Essential Plotinus (Hackett Classics)	Books	5	8	21	N	N	Philosophical Discourse on The Religious Experience	Plotinus, the philosopher. Interesting, how Plotinus takes the writings of Plato, the Stoics, Parmenides and fragments of Heraclitus, Anaxagoras, Empedocles and Aristotle and pieces it all together in what he perceives as a clearer model. It's amazing how Plotinus and his predecessors knew all this. How did they? Now on much of their logic, there is validity, but in their assessment of what exactly happens at death and what created the human mind, soul and being is nothing short of human speculation, both valid expressions and those obviously erroneous.     Now the feeling I get from reading this book, that is, the psychology of Plotinus, is that of a both very learned individual with much profundity and yet with a pompous officiality of the \\"philosopher,\\" sort of like the Martin Heidegger of German philosophy - the Mr. \\"knowledge\\" and official doctorate of educated impressiveness. I mean, did any of these philosophers die and come back from the other realm to relate in such accurate detail the accounts of Beinghood, the soul and the origin of life? And yet, Plotinus, in many instances, writes as \\"proof\\" from what he is interpreting, expounding and elaborating on. You really have to read this book with a grain of salt. I can't help thinking of Swedenborg and Hildegard von Bingen, the metaphysical visionaries of philosophical insight in the Christian mystic venue of origins and spiritual realms of life, although, these mystics do not appear as the pompous philosophical Plotinus type, but much more as the William Blake side of the coin as visionaries of ambiguity, as opposed to Plato, who although discounting myths for reason, wrote the accounts of Phaedo and Phaedrus, the amazing stories of spiritual life in the heavens and their subsequent returns. Such stories influenced our friend here, Plotinus.     And so with this in mind, the book itself has many limitations, but it is truly an interesting and enlightening read despite all its declared \\"proofs\\" of authenticity. And it relays an outstanding view on facilities of reason, intelligence, Beinghood, unity, diversity, multiplicity, oneness, and so forth. The only thing is sometimes Plotinus speaks rather clearly and beautifully and at other times obscurely and wordy like the German Immanuel Kant in his constant repetition of words over and over again defining themselves in Aristotelian terms of definitive over emphasis.     In this book, Plotinus outlays the three hypostasis, the \\"One,\\" the \\"Intelligence,\\" and the \\"Soul.\\" The One transcends essence, existence, beyond number and name, denied of all multiplicity, the first and everything's goal. The Intelligence is undivided Being from which proceeds the Soul which is the maker of the cosmos through Nature. The Soul consists of a multiplicities that are the pilots of earthy life.     Beauty consists of an idea of symmetry of diversity in unity, that is an idea we have of multiplicity that is unified symmetrically, which we perceive in form and interpret as beauty. Not all things however are images of models, as the Soul is not that, but is a thing in itself, soul-as-such. The soul, tired of living with someone else, \\"falls\\" down into earthly individuality, and although it can never abandon itself, it becomes severed and fragmented and forgets its worth as it gets caught up in its inquires of bodily life. Souls do not descend freely nor are they sent. They move towards bodies indeliberately, as if by instinct based on a law of karma-justice, drawn without reflection. There is a paradox; humans become imprinted with memories, snapshots, from bodily impressions, so they are reduced from the memories of the collective soul, while the souls, when apart from bodies, then get caught up in the higher levels so that they forget the lower. The soul remembers its previous lives, even though some recollections have vanished through lack of appreciation. When freed of the body, it will remember things it could not remember in its present life, but in time forgets many of the vents it has encountered. There are two types of memories, the fragmented soul with bodily impressions of the earthly reality, and the soul that is joined with the collective Soul that is united in a larger memory database apart from the bodily sensations. (Pages, 91-92, 145, 152-160, 188).     \\"It is one thing to think; it is another thing to perceive one's thought. We are always thinking. But we do not always perceive out thought because the subject and receives the thoughts receives also, alternately, sensations.\\" P. 158     \\"The wise man is penetrated by reason and has wholly within himself what he manifests to others. He contemplates himself. He achieves unity and immobility not only in regard to external objects but also in regard to the things within himself. He finds all things within himself.\\" P. 168    One other thing about this book. Its amazing to see, and you can, the influence of Plotinus here on the early church fathers, such as Augustine, Tertullian and others, how they took Plato and Plotinus and covered it over with their Christian grid of terminology and interpretation and \\"wala,\\" a new, more spiritually sophisticated and profound Christianity was born. This also influenced the Gnostic Christians as well, although Plotinus rejected Christianity in its severe lack of philosophical inquiry, which according to Plato and Plotinus, is the only way towards pure beauty and the higher realms.	2004-12-06
US	52783335	R21Y8ISQYL4BW2	0896087247	71159355	War Talk	Books	5	5	8	N	N	A Bold Voice in a Mind-Melted World	This book is the meat and potatoes - real food for real thought. And amazingly, people who dare speak out what is really the truth behind the visage of government and political authority usually get their butts whipped dearly, like jailed, beaten, extradited and so forth. So it's rather impressive to see this woman come out speak so both brazenly, that is \\"truthfully,\\" and yet so eloquently and beautifully as she does.  <br />  <br />Interesting thing about a tyrannical democracy; while dictatorial and authoritarian, which destroys many innocent lives, when it comes to the pressure of public opinion, that is where they must lay off and retreat, at least to certain extents, all depending on how much public opinion we are talking about. But the nature of the beast allows such so-called democracies (in name only) to ignore much public opinion if it really only consists of small numbers, which are usually masked to represent great numbers, which in reality, they do not, as most modern day polling will reveal. And so the governments can ignore these dissenters, but if admired by too many, or by others outspoken, they cannot punish them in fear of reprisal. <br />  <br />In this book, Arundhati Roy speaks of the injustices of her native country India, that is, the Indian governments hypocrisy and outright criminality within policies, denials, actions and non-actions towards its people. And while she is at it, she addresses a strong indictment against other governments of the world too, including Britain, the United States and Israel.  <br />  <br />And so, Roy outlines a terrible policy of India in their attempt to create water damns, out placing thousands of citizens without relocating them into homelessness and poverty beyond repair. It's truly a disgraceful account of government abuses, which need to be addressed by the modern day Thomas Paignes, as Roy so appears to be. <br />  <br />What Roy next addresses is a train attack that killed innocent Hindus by the Muslims,although no group ever took responsibility. While this was a horrendous and terrible event, the subsequent actions enabled by a certain segment of the Hindus and endorsed, allowed and ignored by the Indian government was a far more substantial event of a despicable nature of societal damage, to the culture itself and the severe deterioration to what is perceived as democracy. <br />  <br />What I found so significant in Roy's book is that of describing how democracies and other forms of governments work with their subjects, the public, the media and so forth.  <br />  <br />\\"In the twenty-first century the connection between religious fundamentalism, nuclear nationalism, and the pauperization of whole populations because of corporate globalization is becoming impossible to ignore. While the Madhya Pradesh government has categorically said it has no land for the rehabilitation of displaced people, reports say that it is preparing the ground (pardon the pun) to make huge tracts of land available for the corporate agriculture. This in turn will set off another cycle of displacement and impoverishment.\\" P. 14 <br />  <br />\\"In India if you are a butcher or a genocidist who happens to be a politician, you have every reason to be optimistic. No one even expects politicians to be prosecuted. To demand that Modi and his henchmen be arraigned and put away would make other politicians vulnerable to their own unsavory pasts. So instead they disrupt Parliament, shout a lot. Eventually those in power set up commissions of inquiry, ignore the findings, and between themselves makes sure the juggernaut chugs on. \\" <br />  <br />\\"Already the issue has begun to morph. Should elections be allowed or not? Should the Election Commission decide that? Or the Supreme Court? Either way, whether elections are held or deferred, by allowing Modi to walk free, by allowing him to continue with his career as a politician, the fundamental, governing principles of democracy are not just being subverted but deliberately sabotaged. This kind of democracy is the problem, not the solution. Our society's greatest strength is being turned into her deadliest enemy. What's the point of us all going on about \\"deepening democracy,\\" when it's being beat and twisted into something unrecognizable?\\" pp. 33-34 <br />  <br />\\"Its disturbing to see how neatly nationalism dovetails into fascism. While we must not allow the fascists to define what the nation is, or who it belongs to, it's worth keeping in mind that nationalism - in all its many avatars: communist, capitalist and fascist - has been at the root of almost all the genocide of the twentieth century. On the issue of nationalism, it's wise to proceed with caution.\\" P. 36 <br />  <br /> <br />\\"Nobody doubts that Saddam Hussein is a ruthless dictator, a murderer (whose worst excesses were supported by the government of the United States and Great Britain). There's no doubt that Iraqis would be better off without him. <br />  <br />But then, the whole world would be better off without a certain Mr. Bush. In fact, he is far more dangerous than Saddam Hussein. <br />  <br />So, should we bomb president Bush out of the White House? It's more than clear that Bush is determined to go into war against Iraq, regardless of the facts - and regardless of international public opinion. In its recruitment drive for allies, the United States is prepared to invent facts.\\" Pp.110-111 <br />  <br />I also agree and worded the same thoughts prior to Bush's unwarranted attack and further do not support a continued effort of devastation that is occurring there.	2004-12-06
US	52783335	R1EU8IMTYNFQVE	0156005514	527509611	Forbidden Knowledge: From Prometheus to Pornography	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Excellent Reference Book on The Study of Knowledge	A Very Enlightening book. I recommend this book as it covers many different areas very useful in contributing to the overall question of knowledge in Western civilization. Shattuck relates his thesis to a lot of different literary works that pertain to his subject, which I found extremely beneficial in understanding many other books I have read and continue to learn about.    Six Types of Forbidden Knowledge as outlined in the Appendix:     1. INACCESSIBLE, UNATTAINABLE KNOWLEDGE Many of the mystics have related this, the idea that human knowledge can only point to the ineffable, the nameless, the unexpressible, a continual rediscovery experience that cannot be contained within the mind, and yet this knowledge is real. Some aspects of the cosmos - or \\"reality\\" - cannot be reached by human faculties. That inaccessibility springs either from the inadequacy of human powers or from the remoteness of realms presumed to exist in ways inconceivable to us. In this, Socrates goes deeper than Einstein. As Socrates' words prepare the way for Pascal's wager and Huxley's coinage of agnostic. Einstein's words draw a comic paradox out of Pascal's insistence that we know our reach, our portee, between the two infinities that escape us. My third epigraph for this book - Individuum est ineffatible - restricts us even more severely by implying that we cannot know even the particulars that lie closest to us, including ourselves.     2. KNOWLEDGE PROHIBITED BY DIVINE, RELIGIOUS, MORAL, OR SECULAR AUTHORITY Adam and Eve, Prometheus, and Psyche contravened a prohibition. These classic stories relate the consequences of powerful impatience struggling against even more powerful interdiction. Similar motifs recur in modified forms in most quest stories including Dante's Divine Comedy (Peter Damian's warning in the Paradiso's and the tales of King Arthur and his knights (Perceval is too obedient). One of the most compact versions of this form of knowledge emerges from Hawthorne's short story\\"Ethan Brand.\\" That intrepid figure sets out to seek the unpardonable sin; he discovers that he has already committed it by undertaking such a quest. It is in this category that the Wife of Bath effect (the desire brought on from restrictions and prohibition) comes into play. the second epigraph for this book points with a smile to the perverse human tendency to transform prohibition into temptation.     3. DANGEROUS, DESTRUCTIVE, OR UNWELCOME KNOWLEDGE Nuclear weapons, bio-genetic cloning, stem cell research to name a few. Playing with fire - or firearms - provides the most obvious and urgent example of dangerous knowledge. In Chapter VI, I consider the atomic bomb, recombinant DNA, and the Human Genome Project as representing this category of forbidden knowledge. We have learned to fear the effects that developing technology may have on the Earth's environment. In writing Frankenstein, still close to adolescent fantasy, Mary Shelley aimed not at the environmental but at the human depredations of scientific hubris. In comparison to her insistently cautionary tale, Goethe's Faust floats in ambivalence. Faust's appetite for sheer experience made him into a Frankenstein, in the Gretchen love episode and his technological experiments in draining swamps strew damage and suffering in his wake. Yet despite this, the Lord saves him at the end - the reason: for always striving. How shall we read this immense patchwork of a play? The over indulgent Faustian man properly has as many detractors as admirers in our day.     4. FRAGILE, DELICATE, KNOWLEDGE Words must be used like stepping-stones: lightly and with nimbleness, because if you step on them too heavily, you incur the danger of falling into the intellectual mire of logic and reason. -Balsekar     Like a mirage in the desert, get close and it is no longer there. Look at the stars with peripheral vision and see another aspect of the light, unlike direct vision, which cannot detect this. Sensual desires are said to more intense when the line of physical indulgence is not crossed, as there is this quiet, silent center apart from the physical senses. The story of La Princesse de Cleves and Emily Dickinson's veil poem examines forms of knowledge so sensitive that they may crumble and disappear in the moment of realization. One must approach one's own and other's deepest feelings and yearnings with circumspection for fear of driving them into hiding. The symbolist and decadent aesthetic at the close of the nineteenth century favored withdrawal from full-fledged experience and took refuge in a refined realm of language and imagination. In the poem \\"Art poetique\\" Verlaine chooses musicality, nuance, and veiled beauty out of which to compose his chanson grise. For certain men and women, the sexual response falls into the delicate area far removed from conquest and aggressiveness. Some highly responsive men, for whom rape is unthinkable, reach full sexual arousal and circumstances that never exclude the possibility of fiasco. Not violence tenderness serves appetites.     5. KNOWLEDGE DOUBLE BOUND Objective and Subjective Knowledge.  Camus' story of Billy Budd's deadly blow to his superior can be interpreted either from subjectivity or objectivity, from the eyes of Billy Budd, to be pardoned or from Captain Vere, to be executed. Both common sense and the history of philosophy recognize two kinds of tendencies of knowledge. We may approach, enter into, sympathize with, and unite the thing known in order to obtain subjective of knowledge. Or we may stand outside, observe, and anatomize, analyze, and ponder the thing known in order to obtain objective knowledge. Subjective or empathetic knowledge causes us to loose judicious perspective on the object; objective knowledge, in seeking to maintain that perspective, looses the bond sympathy.     We cannot know something by both meetings at the same time. The attempt to reconcile the two or to alternate between them leads to great mental stress. Orestes recoiled from his objective duty to avenge his father, Agammenon, because of the subjective revulsion to killing his mother, Clytemnestra. In explaining how best to comprehend sublime magnitude of the great pyramids in Egypt, Kant wrote with startling simplicity, \\"We must avoid coming to near just as much as remaining too far away\\" (Critique of Judgment, 1, 26). Flaubert was less judicious. \\"The less one feels a thing the more apt one is to express it as it is\\" (letter to Louise Colet, March. 4th, 1852).     6. AMBIGUOUS KNOWLEDGE - This is when the knowledge hits a reversal, a paradox, as in John Swift's, Gulliver's Travels, Gulliver, who instead of gaining his mind, loses his mind on his fourth voyage to the purely reasonable society of the Houyhnhnms.     Take the end of Milton's Paradise Lost. Adam and Eve have repented of their sin, and in paradox, have been granted 'many days' of mortal life, not in Paradise, but in joy, wonder and blessing, as the angel Michael leads Adam to a hilltop and shows him the future, including the coming of Christ and his redemption of Adam's sin, who states \\"O goodness infinite, goodness immense! That all this good of evil shall produce, And evil turn to good, what a reversal, a paradox!     The Wife of Bath effect, the Eldorado reaction, as in the utopian of Eldorado, Candide cannot abide the absence of outward conflict and the tranquility of mind that characterizes that sheltered land, what a paradox!     In these cases, respectively, poison or infection turns into remedy; what is forbidden becomes desirable; the ideal becomes intolerable. We come up against a pun or ambiguity in the very nature of things. These forms of double meaning leave us confounded by paradox. Our mind reckons uncomfortably with contradiction affirmed.	2004-12-02
US	52783335	R3DGI5H93G56TT	0679724532	275081924	The Gnostic Gospels	Books	5	26	27	N	Y	Visible Structured Dogma vs. Subjective Experience & Choice	This book is very enlightening and I think highly significant for anyone professing the Christian faith. In the second century of our common era, the Catholic Church, under their interpretation of Christianity, which differed from the Gnostics, as found in the Nag Hammadi. In this they constructed the bible cannon including the 66 books commonly used by all current day Protestants, and in addition, the apocryphal. In turn, they rejected scores of other books that were just as valid expressions of the Christian experience. In this, they omitted crucial variations into the understanding of an experience that went far beyond mere doctrines and dogma. And this is exactly what the Gnostics endorsed, a Christianity that emanated from individual subjective experiences, each having a private interior journey, as in the case of St. Paul, as opposed to prescribed doctrines and organization hierarchy. They supported an invisible brotherhood of inclusive equality as opposed the visible hierarchal organization endorsed by the Orthodox. Thus they violently opposed each other; however there were exceptions made for the Orthodox within different schools of Gnosticism. In this they did not support a physical resurrection, but rather subjective experiential visions as in Christ's (visionary) appearance to Martha and later to St. Paul on the road to Damascus and his vision of being \\"caught up in a third heaven,\\" which equated to the rejection of Christ's sole appearance to the Apostles, supposedly designating their unique authority and the inherited authority of their so-called successors, the Orthodox Catholic church. While the Gnostics walked in the uncertainty of self discovery and freedom of choice, the Orthodox rested in the fundamentalism of certainty, safety and captured structure.<br /><br />What I think makes this book so good is that fact that is comprehendible without the philosophical, theological abstractions and circular semantics you will find in other explanatory expressions in Gnostic scholarship.<br /><br />Unlike the Orthodox, the Gnostics did not seek answers, but instead they sought furthering the process of asking questions. This is a major difference. Like the East in various forms of Buddhism and Hinduism, their progression of understanding existed in subjective experience through meditation, contemplation and the search inward as opposed to the external search of traditional monotheism found in various forms of Judaism and the Orthodox. It was an internal search to \\"know thyself,\\" as Socrates had so stated, as well as the contemporary Plotinus, although he was an objective philosophical metaphysicist, who rejected both Eastern thought, Gnosticism, and all Christianity for that matter, for its simplicity and lack of definitive philosophical explanation, which be believed was the only way to enlightenment.<br /><br />In this, the Valentinus school of Gnostic thought rejected the literalization of the Hebrew Scriptures, rejecting the God of Israel's claim of Oneship, perceiving him as a lesser divine being who serves as the instrument of the higher powers, and thus stated in ignorance, \\"I am the only God, there is no other,\\" and \\"I am a jealous God.\\" In this, they defined the Creator as Plato's demiurge, the creator was not the same as the divine essence the permeated all Beinghood. Rather, the creator existed as a form apart from the perfect absolute idea that rested beyond the form, as in the case of Sophia, the mother of the demiurge, similar to Paul Tillich's expression of the \\"God beyond God.\\" Anotherwards, the dualism of Plato's God of Good, the eternal and unchanging in the world of perfect forms of Sophia-Wisdom and the God of Demiurge, the fleeting and impermanent God, Yahweh, in the world of changes. The Creator of the Hebrew Scriptures is not the eternal God, Valentinus explains, but the demiurge who reigns as king and lord, who acts as a military commander, who gives the law and judges those who violate it. Achieving gnosis recognizes the ignorance that dwells both in the demiurge's claims of being the \\"only God\\" and that of those who interpret this world of senses as reality. Gnosis involves coming to recognize the true source of divine power, the depth of all being, the Father and Mother. Before gaining gnosis, the candidate worshiped the demiurge, mistaking him for the true God, but now has been released from the demiurge's power, declaring his independence, transcending it. Valentinus' writes to his opponent, Clement:<br /><br />\\"You claim to represent God, but, in reality, you represent only the demiurge, whom you blindly serve and obey, I, however, have passed beyond the sphere of his authority and so, for that matter, beyond yours!\\"<br /><br />In this Valentinus rejected the idea of one creator God of this world of senses, one Bishop and one visible Church to obey, but favored subjective experience, as in visions, dreams, intuitive awareness and flashes of insight and artistic expression.<br /><br />Interestingly, they followed the Newtonian cause and effect of a belief system, as in Orthodoxy with gatherings and shared expressions, and yet, they rejected hierarchy, letting the Quantum law of acausal effect take place in that they had no hierarchy, no dogmas and no strict organizational structure. Therefore they drew lots at each meeting to decide on the spot who would be the priest, leader and directors of each meeting, inclusive to all, both male and female.<br /><br />Now there were various schools of thought within Gnosticism, Valentinus, Basilides, Marcion and others, not all endorsed the above and they fought amongst themselves, which makes this information much more detailed. This book contains not only information on the Gnostics but various quotes from the well known Orthodox leaders, as Clement, Tertullian (who later left the Orthodox), Irenaeus, Ignatius and others in their views against the Gnostics for a well rounded view of both the Gnostics and its opposing viewpoints, although there were many variations. Also, Pagels has other books on the Gnostics, The Johannine Gospel in Gnostic Exegesis, The Gnostic Paul, The Secret Gospel of Thomas and Beyond Belief, which go further into the Gnostic teachings.the ignorance that dwells both in the demiurge's claims of being the \\"only God\\" and that of those who interpret this world of senses as reality. Gnosis involves coming to recognize the true source of divine power, the depth of all being, the Father and Mother. Before gaining gnosis, the candidate worshiped the demiurge, mistaking him for the true God, but now has been released from the demiurge's power, declaring his independence, transcending it. Valentinus' writes to his opponent, Clement:    \\"You claim to represent God, but, in reality, you represent only the demiurge, whom you blindly serve and obey, I, however, have passed beyond the sphere of his authority and so, for that matter, beyond yours!\\"    In this Valentinus rejected the idea of one creator God of this world of senses, one Bishop and one visible Church to obey, but favored subjective experience, as in visions, dreams, intuitive awareness and flashes of insight and artistic expression.    Interestingly, they followed the Newtonian cause and effect of a belief system, as in Orthodoxy with gatherings and shared expressions, and yet, they rejected hierarchy, letting the Quantum law of acausal effect take place in that they had no hierarchy, no dogmas and no strict organizational structure. Therefore they drew lots at each meeting to decide on the spot who would be the priest, leader and directors of each meeting, inclusive to all, both male and female.    Now there were various schools of thought within Gnosticism, Valentinus, Basilides, Marcion and others, not all endorsed the above and they fought amongst themselves, which makes this information much more detailed. This book contains not only information on the Gnostics but various quotes from the well known Orthodox leaders, as Clement, Tertullian (who later left the Orthodox), Irenaeus, Ignatius and others in their views against the Gnostics for a well rounded view of both the Gnostics and its opposing viewpoints, although there were many variations.Also, Pagels has other books on the Gnostics, The Johannine Gospel in Gnostic Exegesis, The Gnostic Paul, The Secret Gospel of Thomas and Beyond Belief, which go further into the Gnostic teachings.	2004-12-01
US	52783335	R3MRL5TUO8JGCK	0933999593	259166323	Porphyry's Launching-Points to the Realm of Mind: An Introduction to the Neoplatonic Philosophy of Plotinus	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A Short Outline of Plotinus' Realm of Mind & Universal Mind	This book gets somewhat detailed in semantics and sometimes reminds me of Kantian language, only slightly, in its obscurity. In this, Porphyrys acknowledges his speculations and vague conceptions, which cannot be grasped by imagination. There are instances of sentences that repeat the same word 6 times over in different arrangements that gets confusing and the \\"One\\" and universal soul becomes the Kantian \\"thing in itself,\\" an absolute. Overall, however, the book is not Kantian and relatively understandable.<br /><br />Some of the points raised are: The \\"One\\" is absolute, being everything and nothing, and therefore cannot be conceived by the mind, ultimately, it is a negation. It neither exists nor non-exists, as it is All. There are different levels of reality, the \\"One\\" non-changing Mind and true Being and the sensory changing realm of mind. I've been interpreting it through out the book as the moving transitory intelligible/thinking mind and the unchanging perfect intelligence/the consciousness - the soul - which is part of a greater consciousness that makes up the whole. The idea is unity in multiplicity and in this there are differences between parts and faculties. This takes on Plato's transient world of fleeting forms with limits, the Monad and the unlimited world of perfect forms, the Dyad.  Four type of virtue to achieve connection with the soul over the mind,  To achieve the super-intellectual principle is better viewed by an absence of thought (p.39). For different reasons the soul either turns toward perfection to the producer, or both the producer and the product or to the lower imperfection, the product. The non-discursive intelligence, or consciousness, thinks all thoughts simultaneously, a continuous of movement, an actualization, while the discursive intelligence, the mind, divides as it thinks only from point to point. And this non-discursive intelligence or consciousness perceives the sense object, by intuition (pp. 52-53).<br /><br />Interestingly the individual souls retain their distinctness despite being a part of a much larger universal soul. \\"Individual souls, as well as the universal Soul, subsist independently of bodies, without the unity of the universal Soul absorbing the manifoldness of individual souls, and without the manifoldness of the latter splitting up the unity of the universal Soul.\\" (p. 61). \\"Its diversity implies both division and union . . . diversity is born of the development of the power of unity\\" (pp. 64-65). The soul is neither a body, nor in the body, but is only the cause of the body, because she is simultaneously everywhere and nowhere in the body. (p. 66) The body, Porphyry writes, is actually in the soul.<br /><br />This is about an inward search. When you will have achieved the nature of existence in itself and become assimilated to eternal existence you will seek nothing beyond yourself. If you do not seek anything (including your habitual mind) beyond yourself (your consciousness), \\"if you shrink within yourself and into your own nature (your consciousness - not mind) you will become assimilated to universal Existence, and you will not halt at anything inferior to it. (p. 67) It's a matter of not being caught up with this life of sensory perception, caught up in what to eat, what to wear, what games to play for sensory desires but instead an inward search of the self, the consciousness apart from the limited sensory mind, then you will discover your true self, the universal existence. Most people do not withdraw into their inner selves, they are ignorant of themselves in this way, they do not know themselves. I've read this by later sages, that to withdraw to the self does not require solipsism, but one can both live in this world and apart in the self simultaneously. It's all about a self-knowledge of a deeper more profound silent self that has nothing to do with the sensory world, nor with discursive doctrinal thinking.<br /><br />With all this said, only a mere segment,it reminds me of what Rupert Sheldrake, Ph.D., calls morphic fields, how biologists cannot find proof of information stored in the human brain, but instead he perceives the brain acting as tuners, tuning into what he calls morphic fields in what he calls morphic resonance of existing habitual patterns in a collective, larger information source. In this we are more in tune with the universe as opposed to the common mechanistic Newtonian view of laws that separates us and the Darwinian view that only equates us from molecules. Rather we are in tune with a larger organism. Creativity is our ability to create new patterns/habits that will enter the morphic fields. A great point on yin and yang; how both are actually part of a trinity, where the duality exists within a circle, an absolute, the ground of being, which represents the third element or the whole that contain both. Each ground then becomes part of a larger ground along with its opposite.eldrake, Ph.D., calls morphic fields, how biologists cannot find proof of information stored in the human brain, but instead he perceives the brain acting as tuners, tuning into what he calls morphic fields in what he calls morphic resonance of existing habitual patterns in a collective, larger information source. In this we are more in tune with the universe as opposed to the common mechanistic Newtonian view of laws that separates us and the Darwinian view that only equates us from molecules. Rather we are in tune with a larger organism. Creativity is our ability to create new patterns/habits that will enter the morphic fields. A great point on yin and yang; how both are actually part of a trinity, where the duality exists within a circle, an absolute, the ground of being, which represents the third element or the whole that contain both. Each ground then becomes part of a larger ground along with its opposite.	2004-12-01
US	52783335	RJVC4Y5TH8X9Z	0874772753	502870152	Architects Of Fear	Books	5	13	18	N	N	Relativism, Internal Growth & Its Attack From Absolutism	I give this book 10 stars. The reason is that it's application applies to current events and would be beneficial to the public and law makers if they had comprehension of the history of conspiracy theories, how it has affected political control and destiny of Western civilization and how it pertains to religion and it's progenitors absolutist and relative thinking.      This is a history book which concepts play a dominant role in our contemporary society and political climate in the United States and through out the entire world, as fundamentalist and religious thinking, both affect our world conditions. Absolutist thinking can pertain to any realm and basically rests in conservativism which seeks to conserve or retain traditions and current cultural values, as in orthodoxy, rejecting all other avenues that deviate as heresy. Such is the basis for conspiracy accusations.    Johnson, in a nonexhaustive study, relates the historical development of the ancient Greek Pythagoreans, the Euclidean's, and the later Rosicrucian's, the Freemasons and the Illuminati. While such groups had differed in many ways and had even battled each other, they all consisted of a common thread: the idea to grow in knowledge and understanding apart from the orthodoxy of conservatism and traditional thought. And so they have always posed as threats to traditional religious and political thinking and subsequently were responsible for uprisings and revolutions, most commonly noted in the French revolution. Such groups were the precursors to the Enlightenment and the departure from the religious control that dominated Europe. Later groups under the attack of conspiracy theories were the opposers of the Catholic Church, to the Catholic Church herself, to the Communists, Bankers and Jews, the list goes on.    Co-joining these movements throughout history, and its heretical thinking, was that of the attacks and accusations from the traditionalists, the conservatives accusing, constructing and elaborating on conspiracy theories. Many of these theories were elaborated on in such ways to criss-cross each other, changing in ways that accuse multiple groups, which others take in only some of these groups, changing accusational applications and formulations to fit the preconceived ideas of the accuser. Many of the schemes became so elaborate - without evidence, and yet whipped up the masses in persecution fervor. Such can be seen in the history of the Freemasons, the Illuminati and the United States Joseph McCarthy trials of so-called Communists, which some were. But the idea of being a Communist was now accused as being dangerous and detrimental to our current values.    Johnson goes into the history of American politics, the Jeffersonians and the Hamiltonians or Federalists and their supporters the Congregationalists and our current day Right Wing conservative values and subsequent attacks on all view that differ from their absolutist mentality, thus using conspiratory theories of attack. In this, he lists organizations, such as the John Birch society and many, many others.     He also writes of other political parties, as Lyndon La Roche, who is not necessarily right or left wing politics, but with the mentality of absolutist thinking that constructs the most convoluted and elaborate conspiracy theories against all those he desires as opponents, which both confuse and persuade those lacking the ability to see the psychology behind the manipulative philosophical, historical and political framework.    The books conclusion makes this book totally worthwhile as it sums up the basis for all the wars, attacks and conspiracy theories and the psychology behind such. In this Johnson goes back to the Christian Gnostics, which were first discovered in the last century, only to be interpreted to the layman recently. In this, the Gnostics were accused as heresy, as unorthodox, for seeking to obtain knowledge and enlightenment within themselves, to find God and Christ within themselves through meditation and personal subjective experiences, thus failing to submit to the current authority granted to the one and only true Catholic Church and political allies. Their rejection of the Apostles and their so-called successors as the only ones with the \\"truth\\" was considered heresy and thus elaborate conspiracy theories were constructed. The very idea that the bible consists of only the 66 books it contains falls under the second century church politics, corrupted as it was. It's a sad fact that 99% of the Evangelical Christians, who dominate the Republican conservative vote, have no clue to the history, make up, ideas and teachings both within and surrounding the Gnostic Gospels, the result: absolutist, fundamental thinking, intolerant of self-enlightenment outside of erroneous authority: national wars and bloodshed.    What makes this book so significant is its application in current day politics and religious values that so dominate our conservative parties. Even the liberals at times and those accused became the accusers with conspiracy theories of attack due to their absolutist thinking. And that's the point of this whole book. We can either look externally, outside our selves for strict formulations to lean on for security, this being done out of the fear of change - or - we can look internally within ourselves and realize that life is a mystery with ambiguity and while we retain certain values and teachings, we are always flexible to self learning, to grow, to evolve to walk in areas without certainty, without security and trust in both humanism and the universe and a God that lives within both, thus we are tolerant, inclusive and work integrally towards world unity and peace.	2004-11-29
US	52783335	R2JL2NEQU9P88V	0879755601	996105734	Freedom and Culture (Great Books in Philosophy)	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Freedom in Democracy Rejects Absolutism & Ulitmate Ends	John Dewey was an American who supported democracy. In this he leaned towards being a Democrat, rejecting the absolutism found in Republican conservatives. This book was written in 1939 when the scare of totalitarian governments were growing around the world. The idea that many of these people willingly gave up their democratic values and freedom in support of a dictatorial control was the shocker that needed to be addressed which included internally, here at home in the States, the need to address this issue. This book is not outdated, for democracy is a continual day by day experiment not an means to an end as in some ultimate answer as in Marxism and totalitarian states.    And now John Dewey will speak for himself:    The extreme danger of giving any body of persons power for whose exercise they are not accountable is a commonplace in a democracy. Arbitrary irresponsibility varies in direct ratio to the claim for absoluteness on the part of the principle in behalf of which power is exercised. To sustain the principle against heresy, or counterrevolutionary action, it finally becomes necessary to clothe the human officials that are supposed to represent the principle with the finality of the professed end. Divinity once hedged about kings. p.91    The serious threat to our democracy is not the existence of foreign totalitarian states. It is the existence within our own personal attitudes and within our own institutions of conditions which have given a victory to external authority, discipline, uniformity and dependence upon The Leader in foreign countries. The battlefield is also accordingly here - within ourselves and our institutions.\\" p.49    Harm comes from the fact when a theory is framed in absolute terms, as one which applies to all places and times, instead of under the contemporary conditions and having definite limits. p. 75    While the possessing class is relatively more secure, yet its members are also profoundly unsettled by recurring cyclic depression . . . . . When disorders appear on any considerable scale, the adherence of the middle class to the side of \\"law and order\\" is won. Ironically enough, the desire for security which proceeds from the two groups of very different economic status combines to increase readiness to surrender democratic forms of action. pp. 60-61    The moral is not unintelligent glorification of empirical, pluralistic, and pragmatic method. On the contrary, the lesson to be learned is the importance of ideas and of a plurality of ideas employed in experimental activity as working hypotheses. thoughtless empiricism provides opportunity for secret manipulation behind the visible scene. When we assume that we are following common sense policies, in the most honorable sense of commons sense, we may in fact, unless we direct observation of conditions by means of general ideas, be in process of being led around by the nose by agencies purporting to be democratic, but whose activities are subversive of freedom: a generalized warning which, when translated into concrete words, should make us wary toward those who talk glibly about the \\"American way of life,\\" after they have identified Americanism with a partisan policy in behalf of concealed economic aims.\\" pp. 95-96    History shows that more than once social unity has been promoted by the presence, real or alleged, of some hostile group. It has long been a part of the technique of politicians who wish to maintain themselves in power to foster the idea that the alternative is the danger of being conquered by an enemy. pp. 37-38    As Huey Long is reported to have said, Fascists would come in this country under the name of protecting democracy from it's enemies. p. 68    Scientific method in operating with working hypotheses instead of with fixed and final Truth is not forced to have an Inner Council to declare just what is the Truth not to develop a system of exegesis which rivals the ancient theological way of explaining away apparent inconsistencies. it welcomes a clash of \\"incompatible opinions\\" as along as they can produce observed facts in their support. pp. 97-98    Any monolithic theory of social action and social causation tends to have a ready-made answer for problems that present themselves. the wholesale character of the answer prevents critical examination and discrimination of the particular facets involved in the actual problems. In consequence, it dictates a kind of al-or-none practical activity, which in the end introduces new difficulties. p. 100    When democracy openly recognizes the existence of problems and the need for probing them as problems as its glory, it will relegate political groups that pride themselves upon refusing to admit incompatible opinions to the obscurity which already is the fate of similar groups in science p. 102    It is no easy matter to find adequate authority for action in the demand, characteristic of democracy, that conditions be such as will enable the potentialities of human nature to reach fruition. Because it is not easy the democratic road is the hard one to take. It is the road which places the greatest burden of responsibility upon the greatest number of human beings. Backsets and deviations occur and will continue to occur. But that which is its weakness at particular times is its strength in the long course of human history. just because the cause of democratic freedom is the cause of the fullest possible realization of human potentialities, the latter when they are suppressed and oppressed will in time rebel and demand an opportunity for manifestation    With the founders of American democracy, the claims of democracy were inherently one with the demands of a just equal morality. We cannot now well use their vocabulary (They has the freedom to use words like ass and other non-conservative \\"obscene\\" words). Changes in knowledge have outlawed the significations of the words they commonly used. But in spite of the unsuitability of much of their language for present use, what they asserted was that self-governing institutions are the means by which human nature can secure its fullest realization in the greatest number of persons. The question of what is involved in self-governing methods is now much more complex. But for this very reason, the task of those who retain belief in democracy is to revive and maintain in full vigor the original conviction of the intrinsic moral nature of democracy, now stated in ways congruous with present conditions of culture. We have advanced fare enough to say that democracy is a way of life. We have yet to realized that it is a way of personal life and one which provides a moral standard for personal conduct pp. 129-130    War under existing conditions compels nations, even those professedly the most democratic, to turn authoritarian and totalitarian . . . the necessity of transforming physical interdependence into moral-into-human-interdependence is part of the democratic problem: and yet war is said even now to be the path of salvation for democratic countries p. 166    Any doctrine that eliminates or even obscures the function of choice of values and enlistment of desires and emotions in behalf of those chosen weakens personal responsibility of judgment and for action. It thus helps create the attitudes that welcome and support the totalitarian state p. 172    The conflict as it concerns the democracy to which our history commits us is within our own institutions and attitudes. It can be won only by extending the application of democratic methods, methods of consultation, persuasion, negotiation, communication, co-operative intelligence, in the task of making our own politics, industry, education, our culture generally, a servant and an evolving manifestation of democratic ideas. Resort to military force is a first sure sign that we are giving up the struggle for the democratic way of life, and that the Old World has conquered morally as well as geographically - succeedingin imposing upon us its ideals and methods.    If there is one conclusion to which human experience unmistakably points it is that democratic ends demand democratic methods for their realization. Authoritarian methods now offer themselves to us in new guises. They come to us claiming to serve the ultimate ends of freedom and equity in a classless society. Or they recommend adoption of a totalitarian regime in order to fight totalitarianism. In whatever form they offer themselves, they owe their seductive power to their claim to serve ideal ends. Our first defense is to realize that democracy can be served only by the slow day by day adoption and contagious diffusion in every phase of our common life of methods that are identical with the ends to be reached and that recourse to monistic, wholesale, absolutist procedures is a betrayal of human freedom no matter in what guise it presents itself. An American democracy can serve the world only as it demonstrates in the conduct of its own life the efficacy of plural, partial, and experimental methods in securing and maintaining an ever-increasing release of the powers of human nature, in service of a freedom which is co-operative and a co-operation which is voluntary. pp. 175-176	2004-11-28
US	52783335	R3975C11UUECG	0465008704	972344490	Captive Public The	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Mass Organization Replaced By Technology In Rights Favor	Mass Organization Replaced By Technology Transforms US Electoral Dice To The Right    This book by Benjamin Ginsberg goes into the structure of American democracy and compares it with Alexis De Tocqueville. Rather than a 1984 George Orwell totalitarian rule, what is portrayed is the outcome of De Tocqueville, an authoritarian rule by government ruled by public opinion. Anotherwards  not public opinion subject to government, but public opinion subjected by itself in it's hold on government. The tail wags it's own chains. This book, written in 1986, is hardly outdated. It would have been nice if though it did enter up to our current right wing conservative rule of the Bush administration.    There are many good points in this book that center on the idea that a window of opportunity has now closed in the United States. There was a time when policy could be changed for the masses, but this has now ended. The main problems are that man-powered political structure has been replaced by technology and finances. Money was always important, but it has changed to the point where money is the crucial factor in influencing public opinion, the popular vote and electoral votes needed, primarily for the conservative right. The technology has ceased the need for numbers of organizers to that of mass mailing, the hire of firms that perform mass telephone, radio, newspaper and TV advertisement that run into the millions of dollars, capital the corporate backed right can afford in a serious advantage over the working masses of the left. It looks as though, after all these years, the conservative Federalists have finally obtained the way to overcome their liberal and pragmatic opponents, the Jeffersonians. We have entered the dark period of American history.    \\"The enormous infantry armies that dominated World War I battlefields have given way in importance to powerful modern weapons systems operated from electronic command posts by small groups of technicians . . the displacement oforganizational methods by new political technology is that of a  change is a shift from labor - to capital -intensive competitive electoral practices and has far-reaching implications for the balance of power among contending political groups . . .Indeed, the new technology permits financial resources to be more effectively harnessed and exploited than was never before possible. As a result, the significance of the right's customary financial advantage has been substantially increased. Money and the new political technology, not some spontaneous \\"shift to the right\\" by mass public opinion, were the keys to the 1978 and 1980 and the Republicans surprisingly strong showing during what amounted to an economic depression in 1982.\\"    \\"No political party is guaranteed victory, \\"nevertheless, the new technology loads the electoral dice in favor of the right. The expanding role of the new electoral techniques means that over the coming decades, groups closer to the political left will increasingly find them selves engaged in a type of political warfare that they are poorly equipped to win. The supersession of organization by the new technology may prove to be the functionally equivalent of a critical electoral realignment, substantially redistributing power and profoundly transforming political possibilities in the United States.\\" pp. 150-151    Ginsberg also goes into the marketplace of ideas of both the left and the right, the media and which groups influence which forms of media and which groups are influenced.    Polling by including the apathetic and by posing limited questions has presented the problem of watering down all voices of dissension. Polling acts to control in submission and subsequently change and mold public opinion according to the state's agenda. Polling includes those most outspoken with those apathetic, thus weakening the dissonant and strengthening the voiceless. This then works in two ways. One is in by limiting the questions posed to the state's agenda only limits the number of alternatives and subsequent answers, and secondly, this molds and shapes the current beliefs and desires of public opinion.     \\"Because they (the public opinion polls) seldom pose questions about the foundations of the existing order, while constantly asking respondents to choose from among the alternatives defined by that order - candidates and consumer products, for example - the polls may help to narrow the focus of public discussion and to reinforce the limits on what the public perceives to be realistic political and social possibilities.\\" P. 82     So the polls, by limiting their questions, which are angled toward their predetermined slant, severely limit the alternatives. I think this can be adequately labeled as propaganda. Reduce the alternatives and the selections must always fall in the pre-selected range of supposed choices. Subtly, freedom is removed, and the masses unaware, are convinced, many in a fundamental dogmatism, that they have choices.    And the media interprets what it reports swayed by the party that backs them financially, thus alters their opinions: \\"The chief problem with protest as a communication mechanism is that, in general, the media upon which the protesters depend have considerable discretion in reporting and interpreting the events they cover. Should, for example, a particular group of protesters be identified as \\"freedom fighters\\" or \\"terrorists\\"? If a demonstration leads to violence, was this the fault of the protesters or the authorities? The answers to these questions are typically determined by the media, not by the protesters. This means that the media interpretation of protest activities is more a reflection of the view of the groups and forces to which the media are responsive - usually segments of the upper-middle class - than it is a function of the wishes of the protesters themselves. . . \\" p. 134	2004-11-20
US	52783335	RAS10OXUK8G14	0933031645	528836086	Thinking Allowed: Conversations on the Leading Edge of Knowledge and Discovery	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	Exciting & Meaningful Discussions of Human Consciousness	This book is one of those rare ones I find I wish to memorize each concept, each interviewee has related. Completely user freindly and intense at the same time, an excellent book.    There are 39 interviews in this book and no adequate way to review all in one small review, so I am relating the whole theme's presentation in a few paragraphs. And this is written in exciting and meaningful discussions that are evolutionary and revolutionary in modern day understandings in psychology, physics, biology, human consciousness, science, human growth and achievement, societal transformation and parallel historical patterns, the mind-brain relationships and much more. Both Jeffrey Mishlove's aimed questions and subsequent answers of the interviewees are excellent in nature, and in most cases, relate to their prior and upcoming books. I rate this book up there with the maximum rating. I've never seen Mishlove's television show or videos of the same and emphatically wish there was another book of additional interviews to read. I love this book. It's the type of book that leave you with substance.     Information in this book ranges from quantum physics and the human shift in consciousness, the transformations of human evolutionary growth, ancient societies and lost metaphysical properties useful in our day, evolution of the human potential in addition to our physical bodies, our brains acting as tuners to morphic-information fields as opposed to information storage, the Platonic concept of ideas of a higher realm then our ordinary conceptual thinking, the metaphorical nature of mythology and its applications to universal modern day physics, how we exist in a middle world capable of transcending to higher realms in regard to scientific quantity to spiritual quality, to teleological and spiritual concepts of higher purposes in a harmony of science and religion, to the idea of hyperspace and multidimensional reality or realms with superstring and fiber bundle theories in physics,to the beneficial properties of existential psychology and the creativity that is born out of despair, to recognition of ourselves as good who make both good and bad decisions to cease imprisoning ourselves with demands that act self-defeating, to open communication, the recognition of unconscious communication and our ability to speak to others in ways less negative conveying our messages, to walking with people in existential subjectivity apart from Freudian scientific objectivity. The recognition of our multiple personalities we must stop disowning but rather acknowledge and use in controlled, meaningful ways. To see in transpersonal psychology a interdependence that transcends the separate dependence and angst or anxiety in existential psychology.	2004-11-16
US	52783335	R3O0U2GUKGQ9IC	0671797182	366654665	The Mind of God: The Scientific Basis for a Rational World	Books	5	13	21	N	N	Brilliant, Comprehensive; Rational, Yet Acknowledges Mystery	This is a brilliant book and very thought provoking. Written in a very understandable way for the layman such as myself and questions some of the heavy weights in substantial comprehensive order and understanding. Some of the points raised with much more detail are as follows:    The book is written with clarity with ideas in physics and logic. And yet, Davies acknowledges the eventually of all logic and math which hit boundaries or encircle themselves, as in the explanation of Godel's Theorem. Anotherwards, the study of physics is truly mind expanding, beneficial in our knowledge and understanding, and yet paradoxically, the same rational logic and mathematical equations are always doomed to failure: with infinite regress or mysterious self-explaining axioms or unexplained rings. So it is, at the end of the book Davies, an educated, and I'd like to say brilliant, physicist, acknowledges that mysticism and meditation are valid alternatives to the paradox of circular logic, acknowledging that the universe remains a mystery where mathematics and rationalism will never completely decode in a supertheory of everything calculated and finished. I'm very impressed with this balanced view and can't help but think of all the great understanding in physics, and simultaneously, the psychology Carl Jung's Eastern approach of the \\"collective unconscious\\" or the world of symbols, images, dreams and the unconscious, archetypes undefined by our scientific logic.    Godel's Theorem relates to our Rationalism and Logic, which turns out to always be Circular, Uncomputable. I personally think this is what made the brilliant man Nieztsche go insane, besides syphillis. The fact of the matter is all rational thinking rests and ends in a total paradox, which cannot equate a determination of truth. Our truths are merely the best set of lies. Such paradoxes reveal that there are certain logistics and mathematical statements that cannot be determined true or false. This puts uncertainty in our logistic rationality and mathematics. Such statements together as   \\"This statement is a lie\\"  \\"If the statement is true, then it is false; and if it is false, then it is true \\"  &  SOCRATES: \\"What Plato is about to say is false\\"  PLATO: \\"Socrates has just spoken truly.\\"    Other ideas in this book include the Idea of a Self Contained Universe. The existence may not require anything outside of it: specifically, no prime mover or supernatural act needed. In this he addressses the ideas of initial laws, initial conditions, nonlocality of singularity, a point of infinite compression. Davies writes about the differences of the big crunch, big bang, expansion, contraction, cycles, the steady-state theory of continuous creation.    Davies supports, with many references, not necessarily a designer as we intepret in monotheism, but the universe with intelligent design from a complex set of conditions with particular laws of physics based on such conditions.     Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle - that all measurable quantities are subject to unpredictable fluctuations in their values, the micro world indeterministic, as in quantum fluctuations.    Creation Without Creation - The shape of the universe being a cone with no abrupt beginning; time fades gradually away toward the base, no well-defined beginning, although time is still finite in the past. This takes in Einstein's idea of space possibly being finite. And also the expansion of the universe over time.    Two Types of Physics, Newtonian and Quantum - The universe of Newtonian physics of contingency of determined causes by a chain of cause and effect events and the Quantum physics that reveal an indeterminacy of electrons and chance events. While we live in a rational world, the deepest layers are absurd.    Stochasticity - The principle of compromise of the being with the becoming or the necessary and the contingent, the cause and effect Newtonian and the undetermined of Quantum, an open system with general laws.There is a difference between stochasticity and anarchy. There is order in disorder; even chaos can possess statistical regularities. God plays dice.    General Laws of Organization Exist in Open Systems - that is within Quantum physics consists of indeterminacy within a range of defined boundaries., which limits the amount of possibilities. Regarding the electron, the nature of the alternatives is fixed necessarily, whereas, the actual alternative adopted is contingent. The prediction of probabilities over certainties.    Necessary or Contingent - The religious paradox of whether God, the Creator or the universe or the beginning point is necessary or contingent. If he/she/it is necessary, then all good, evil, ethics and choice is predetermined as a prior or axiom. If this is true then free choice cannot be, as contingency cannot come from necessary. If he/she/it is contingent then all good, evil, ethics and choice is based on the preexisting meanings they are formed and built from and then free choice becomes chaotic. The dualism of the dipolar God of Plato as the God of Good - the eternal and unchanging in the world of perfect forms and the God of Demiurge the fleeting and impermanent in the world of changes is one attempt. The Christian idea of ex nihilo, of a God outside and transcendent of our world of changes is another. However such ideas do not reconcile a God with a permanent nature creating a world of change, so this dilemma remains.    We Do Not Know The Initial Conditions That Determined The Laws Of Physics - Such conditions were much different then they are today. Cosmologists have argued that thermodynamics and similar processes could have erased the details of the cosmic initial conditions.    Process Theology (Whitehead & Russell) - that all life consists of and is simultaneously determined by the both the lower biological levels that make it up, and in turn, determined by the teleology or final goal-directed causes of the higher levels of organizations which they are part of. There is both the Newtonian predetermined cause and effect and the undetermined Quantum.    Ontology - There is No Definitive Proof of The Meaning of \\"Existence.       Mathematicians Attempt to An Equation of a Theory of Everything -A superstring or master code of the entire universe. Einstein believed there is such a code; this is based solely on the rationalism.     Anthropic Principle - We construct our theories as part of the universe, not outside it, and this fact must inevitably limit the theories we construct. We relate our existence as observers of the universe to the laws and conditions of the universe.     The Laws of Physics - are universal, absolute, eternal and omnipotent as in all-powerful. Or is it that humans impose the regularities of nature on the world by their minds in order to make sense of it. We can never get behind the stuff of the cosmos to the law as such. Can the software exist without the hardware? Davies is convinced that with our mathematics we discover objective truths about he universe rather then invent them.    Davies writes of Von Neumann's Universal Constructor - self-replication through a control mechanism and Turings machine, Conway's game of life and the ideas of both together.    The idea and objections of mulitiple universes.    The idea of Virtual Worlds to The Real World And A Master Code is unknowable, due to the wisdom in the uncomputable numbers and number called omega which is defined by a halting problem with a formula to overcome but never revealed and can be compared with the magic numbers of the ancient Greeks. The universe must be algorithmically compressible, or economical in computation, within our horizon of computation, time-dependent, with a finite number of particles, and in order for us to know part from whole, must contain both linear and locality properties.	2004-11-01
US	52783335	R1Y1JOL8TYUMWX	0553380648	377895949	The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Great History of the American Psychedelic Acid Movement	This book is around 400 pages and a very detailed history, many stories, and it's hard to remember all the facts, you'll have to read the book yourself for that. The story is of the \\"Intrepid Travelers,\\" Ken Kesey and The Merry Pranksters, a communal group of acid ingesters who were the progenitors of the acid consciousness in the California, in the US, in the world's consciousness of awareness . . . \\"your either on the bus or off the bus.\\"<br /><br />It was the influential chemists, Al Hubbard, Dr. Spaulding and the psychologists, Timothy Leary and Richard Albert, the Harvard psychology professors, who discovered for themselves psylobilin and with Michael Hollingshead and Albert Hoffman, LSD and subsequently held experiments using the right set and setting with experienced psychedelic guides. Yet to this the Merry Pranksters would say, \\"f**k that!\\" because they were from a different movie of living; in the now, the unserene and lurid art, your brain being your only guide, not some experienced taker and specific setting for a safe non-freak-out trip (and there were a lot of \\"freak-outs\\" from many young, emotionally inexperienced). And the acid influenced cultural movement they began in the early 1960's. It was Leary and Albert who endorsed the \\"set and setting,\\" the intellectual approach or non-organizational religious approach, the religious experience of the mystics, in their dialogue with acid and mushrooms. With Kesey and the Pranksters it was spontaneous, wild party kind of living in Day-Glow colors, in the multimedia sound and movie.<br /><br />The Pranksters account starts in North Beach on Perry Lane, which becomes a major hang out for all sorts and eventually ends up in a cottage near La Honda, where the loud party of outlandish, Day-Glo painted woods - rigged with microphones and massive sound equipment, in the communal life takes on a new meaning. The Hell's Angels befriend the Pranksters and there are stories of personalities, telepathic and psychic connections and synchronicity in new fields of human life, the overmind, the collective unspoken mind of the psychedelic group. The religious realm of mystical awareness as in the game of I-Ching and dream wars. The Jungian \\"synchronicity\\" seemed to occur uncanningly many times, as their bus out of gas in the middle of nowhere only to have a tanker pull up and fuel them from nowhere. The sign on their door welcoming the Hell's Angels to end up having them and succeeding in their prankster madness. The sign on their door welcoming the Beatles, did not synchronize them to appear, but what did was having Oswley appear, the famous acid maker, who in the ways of synchronistic noncausal effect, was responsible for the finest acid which spread to England, the acid that brought the Beatles to experience the unspoken mind which ended them up traveling by bus across the English countryside with cameras and microphones.<br /><br />Imagine a Day-Glo painted bus, the magic bus, with Day-Glo painted people and clothes, tripping on acid traveling from California to the New York World's Faire with music blasting, a freak show on wheels, all in the year 1964! And Neil Cassidy (Jack Kerouac's buddy and drive from On The Road) driving the bus!! And their trip to the legendary Millbrook, thinking it would be some historic meeting with Leary and the Pranksters, but instead it was the mystical religious and intellectuals verses the wild party, American flag draped, painted, loud blaring music, party animals of psychedelic madness. I think it relates to the age and the introvert and/or extrovert type personalities that played the large part.<br /><br />It was actually Stewart Brand who thought up the great Trip Festival of January 1966. The series of acid test parties held by Kesey and the Pranksters helped spawn the movement of higher consciousness, all held at the last minute, the same day notification was put, and the Pranksters playing their instruments, then finding a local band, the warlocks - later known as the Grateful Dead - to play and Roy Seburn's light shows at the acid tests. It was the acid test held in a Unitarian church where the Kool-Aid was spiked, unknowingly to those attending. It was not teachings in the stiff, reverent language and texts of scholarly limnings found in various religions being taught but instead an aura, a religious experience, an awareness that flashed deeper than cerebration, the tradition of the great prophets. People like the beats Allen Ginsberg and his entourage and Neil Cassidy were there. As this spread, so the acid tests, later without Kesey and Haight Ashbury became the scene.<br /><br />Later on Kesey gets busted twice for weed and is on the run from the law, to Mexico and back until caught - he was in their movie that time, fortunately most charges dropped. A lot to read of the characters and generally a great book to get an idea of a unique and special time and place in history where a much larger degree of freedom existed for the white middle class with the ability to gain other realms of consciousness available for the taking. A great pictorial book on this is \\"On The Bus\\" by Paul Perry, Michael Schwartz, Neil Ortenberg & Ken Babbs.teful Dead - to play and Roy Seburn's light shows at the acid tests. It was the acid test held in a Unitarian church where the Kool-Aid was spiked, unknowingly to those attending. It was not teachings in the stiff, reverent language and texts of scholarly limnings found in various religions being taught but instead an aura, a religious experience, an awareness that flashed deeper than cerebration, the tradition of the great prophets. People like the beats Allen Ginsberg and his entourage and Neil Cassidy were there. As this spread, so the acid tests, later without Kesey and Haight Ashbury became the scene.    Later on Kesey gets busted twice for weed and is on the run from the law, to Mexico and back until caught - he was in their movie that time, fortunately most charges dropped. A lot to read of the characters and generally a great book to get an idea of a unique and special time and place in history where a much larger degree of freedom existed for the white middle class with the ability to gain other realms of consciousness available for the taking. A great pictorial book on this is \\"On The Bus\\" by Paul Perry, Michael Schwartz, Neil Ortenberg & Ken Babbs.	2004-10-26
US	52783335	R3HRSM7YWYI6WC	0156612062	580523676	Modern Man in Search of a Soul	Books	5	96	99	N	N	Insightful Analytical Psychology	A very insightful and meaningful book, 11 intriguing essays in 244 pages. Jung is a deeper thinker, and I think not reductive like Freud and Adler tended to be. He makes no claim to dogmatism or absolutes. Jung really hits on the psyche and transcends the borders of rational intelligence into areas of the unconscious expressions in symbolism and images.     I am going to argue against another reviewer here that gave this book 4 stars as being outdated. When I look at the present collective societal structure and current cultural pattern apart from the minority of advanced individuals, I can see the postmodern man has regressed far from the modern man of the 1930's in search of a soul. Of course there as been advances individually, but on a collective level; fundamentalism, religious literalism, nationalism, patriotism and one-sided thinking This has grown in major proportions as opposed to the other way around and it is far more serious than most even realize and patterns after historical events of very similiar nature.    The first essay on dream-analysis hits on the idea that dreams are very hard to interpret and suggests that understanding the circumstances and conditions of the conscious life is significant in relation to the dreams of the unconscious life.     On the problems of psychotherapy, Jung relates four stages of analytical psychology, the confessional, explanation, education and transformation     \\"The great decisions of human life have as a rule far more to do with the instincts and other mysterious unconscious factors than with conscious will and well-meaning reasonableness. The shoe that fits one person pinches another; there is no recipe for living that suits all cases. Each of us carries his own life-form - an indeterminable form which cannot be superseded by any other.\\" p. 61     The essay on the personality types is short, non-exhaustive and briefly relates Jung's ideas of the introvert, the extrovert and the 4 basic types consisting of those persons who are thinkers, feelers, sensory and intuitive.     In his essay on the stages of life, Jung ventures beyond childhood into early adulthood and the expansion of the self into sexual desires and masculine and feminine traits and how after somewhere in the 40's there begins a contraction of the self where men may acquire more feminine traits and women more masculine. In the second half of life less is needed to educate his conscious will but more aim towards the inner being, until old age where one leaves the rational self and retreats into the psyche as children yet in a different sense.     Jung acknowledges the validity of Freud and Adler and their valuable contributions, yet Jung sees Freud's sexual reduction to all neurosis as limiting, as well as Adler's will to power over inferiority as the sole cause. Both views have proven themselves as valid in many cases, yet Jung finds there is far much more levels in what he calls \\"value intensities,\\" which underlie many complexes.     Jung also briefly goes into the archaic man's interpretation of all chance events having external meanings and causes, or as causal occurrences and the contrast of the modern man's ability to see the majority of chance and unexplainable events as the human imagination, as the perception of the human. Also the same ability of assumptions in the archaic man, can be seen in the modern who uses science as the foundation over the supernatural.     Jung's essay on psychology and literature is my favorite essay. It hits on something I both think of and am affected by almost every day. I found this entirely meaningful and very much profound. In this he writes of two types of writers; those that explain all they write of and those that have visions where their writing is obscure and needs the psychologist to read into. It is those visionaries that are the most inspiring. Here there exists those as in The Shepherd of Hermas, in Dante, in the second part of Faust, in Nietzsche's Dionysian exuberance, in Wagner's Nihelungenriing, in Spitteler's Olympischer Fruhling, in the poetry of William Blake, in the lpnerotomachia of the monk Francesco Colonna, and in Jacob Boehme's philosophic and poetic stammerings.     Jung speaks of the human intuition that points to things that are unknown and hidden, and by our very nature are secret and that throughout human history this unfathomable primordial source of creative experience been expressed in images, as in the sun-wheel, in attempting to point to this. The artist and poet will resort to mythology and images which only appear to occur in dreams, cases of insanity, narcotic states and eclipses of consciousness.     \\"A great work of art is like a dream; for all its apparent obviousness it does not explain itself and is never unequivocal. A dream never says; \\"you ought,\\" or \\"this is the truth.\\" It presents an image in much the same way as nature allows a plant to grow, and we must draw our own conclusions.\\" p. 171     I really can't even begin to touch on all the vital, significant and soul inspiring information that is loaded in the pages of this book and I think as I try I am taking away from what's written far better than what I'll ever write. I recommend this book.	2004-10-19
US	52783335	R1NCROQ7F9EZQ1	0312278675	857469136	Steppenwolf: A Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Harry Haller, Steppenwolf and the Illusion of The Self	A 300 page book I read in two days. Interesting story with great self descriptions of a man torn away from society into himself and his two personas, Harry Haller and the Steppenwolf. Harry Haller is the bourgeois self, who is an intellectual, thinker and socially \\"normal\\" man and Steppenwolf is the rebel self who rebels from mediocre bourgeois living and is an angry skeptic. He then meets others, including intimacy with women, who also came to the same conclusions of life's emptiness through their personas, although they come from the superficial world of desires and pleasures, which is the majority of society.<br /><br />The book continues through the struggles of Harry's troubled self personas and encounters he occurs. Ultimately, it is the recognition of the self, the persona(s) that are not anymore as serious and rather humorous. This is because the acknowledgment comes from a new awareness that the self is a construction of many different personas which are all part of a game, and the idea of a game suggests the illusion we carry in the seriousness of the role we play, the persona we emulate. It's an amazing self insight that allows him to perceive his life apart from his self-made, man-made personas that are only creations of the self and societal structures, cultural conditioning and linguistic formations. This of course, includes all philosophies, all political and religious ideologies and recognizes their transient nature adapting to the current societal structure of the time. It is a revelation from the self, an escape from the ego, a release from the illusionary selves that the majority of the world are unaware and who take their personas as \\"real\\" and fail to see the multiplicity of the self and that our personas are in reality illusions we create. And this is all realized under the Magic Theater - Entrance Not For Everybody - For Madmen Only! - The Cost, Your Mind. The entry and experience into this theater happens at the end of the novel by drinking a potion and smoking some secret herb rolled up in yellow rolling paper, which can no doubt be psychedelic drugs or similar drugs that enabled Harry to obtain the ability to let go of his illusionary self and open the doors of perception to see the multiplicities of reality and their relative positions.<br /><br />This insight is also that of the 1960's Harvard University professor, guru, psychologist and author, Timothy Leary, who found the use of LSD and psychedelics enabled him and many others, including intellectuals, professors, theologians, divinity students, historians and eventually much of the public, to also enter higher portions of reality, recognizing their limited egos, beyond their illusionary personas to perceive that the Magic Theater is the theater that reveals the many games we and our society play, the many chess pieces we both consciously and unconsciously create in the chessboards of life and that the majority, the power and control people, reject this adamantly, entirely living for the seriousness of their illusionary personas in rationalism and language as the only true reality, resulting in the dominating others, including that of the governments who start bloody wars and pass laws that curb and even destroy creativity.<br /><br />Harry Haller - Steppenwolf - experienced a new found wisdom, pages 129 and 131: \\"I lived through much in Pablo's little (Magic) theater and not a thousandth part can be told in words. . . When I rose once more to the surface of the unending stream of allurement and vice and entanglement, I was calm and silent, I was equipped, far gone in knowledge, wide, expert - ripe for Hermaine (his last love) . . I belong to her not just as this one piece in my game of chess - I belonged to her wholly. I would now lay out the pieces in my game that all was centered in here and led to fulfillment.\\"<br /><br />What must be recognized is that while life takes on personas and still, unmoving snapshots of reality and interprets them as absolutes, it still can not hide what is behind such still frames of perception; the moving flow of multifaceted reality, the relative nature of perception. But this can only be so if people stop becoming so serious in their chess games, cease being critics, experts and trash their beliefs in absolutes - \\"Better learn to listen first! Learn what is to be taken seriously and laugh at the rest.\\" p. 143 The music we hear may be distorted and may not conform to our perceptions, but it can never hide the eternal music of life that exists within it. While many of us have the courage to die for our errors and crimes, we don't have the courage to fully live, anotherwards, we don't know how to to laugh and apprehend the humor of life, to see the relative nature and meanings of the distorted music,  and recognize that all of life's perceptions have serious limitations and must not be taken as absolute truths.<br /><br />Oh, and one more thought. A thought that keeps haunting me is the laughing Haller envisions Mozart as doing, a mad, insane laughter and I sense inside this myself. Life, while beautiful, is truly a  painful tragedy, a fightening, suffering existence that deteroriates into death. Without having absolutes to lean on, the human's ability of humor and comedy counter act and balance the psyche. That's the insane, mad, overwhelming laughter. That's the antedote of our awareness to the transient nature of all our relative truths. We see the contradictions, lighten up and laugh, although this laugh comes from the depths of our soul.de what is behind such still frames of perception; the moving flow of multifaceted reality, the relative nature of perception. But this can only be so if people stop becoming so serious in their chess games, cease being critics, experts and trash their beliefs in absolutes - \\"Better learn to listen first! Learn what is to be taken seriously and laugh at the rest.\\" p. 143 The music we hear may be distorted and may not conform to our perceptions, but it can never hide the eternal music of life that exists within it. While many of us have the courage to die for our errors and crimes, we don't have the courage to fully live, anotherwards, we don't know how to to laugh and apprehend the humor of life, to see the relative nature and meanings of the distorted music,  and recognize that all of life's perceptions have serious limitations and must not be taken as absolute truths.    Oh, and one more thought. A thought that keeps haunting me is the laughing Haller envisions Mozart as doing, a mad, insane laughter and I sense inside this myself. Life, while beautiful, is truly a  painful tragedy, a fightening, suffering existence that deteroriates into death. Without having absolutes to lean on, the human's ability of humor and comedy counter act and balance the psyche. That's the insane, mad, overwhelming laughter. That's the antedote of our awareness to the transient nature of all our relative truths. We see the contradictions, lighten up and laugh, although this laugh comes from the depths of our soul.	2004-10-17
US	52783335	R34L60CH1XKHAS	0872860043	224818562	The Yage Letters	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Autonomous Thinkers in a Bourgeois World	A great piece of history by the avant garde writers, in this case some letters, of autonomous thinkers (and doers) that depart from the mediocre bourgeois and robotic, patriotic, mind-melted citizen. Reading this book and I'm not sure if I should frown on Burrough's way of life or envy it. I don't favor much of his drug use and his tastes and sexual preferences, but at the same time, neither do I endorse our societal neurotic phobias and radical attacks under their Augustinian mentality. This is a culture under repression. Despite Burrough's rough edges (depravity or art?), there is that amazing element of spontaneity, of dangerous living, of freedom from the protective rational securities that so many of us weak Westerners so much rely on. Reading his accounts from town to town, from boy, pervert, hoar, food, social spots and Yage encounters, kind of puts you both there and in the mind of Burroughs to an extent. Everyone sees reality interpreted through their perceptional lenses and this is definitely colored glasses looking at the time, place and people. Since these are mostly personal letters to Ginsberg, they aren't the cut up collage style you'd find in Naked Lunch, however he does mention this in one of his letters and does a little of it in a poem and maybe his last statement aimed at all humanity. <br />  <br />Written 7 years later, there are a few letters from Ginsberg, questioning his experience with Yage and asking for Burrough's advise. He had a deeper and scarier experience than LSD and was afraid of entering deeper and deeper into the realm he was heading. And wrote some good poetic thoughts in his confusion. Apparently all went well with a later 1963 letter showing strength again and experiential confidence.	2004-10-15
US	52783335	R2X2LFWR88V23B	0156799804	345463520	The Secret of the Golden Flower: A Chinese Book of Life	Books	5	123	125	N	Y	Penetrating Text and Commentary by Jung	A very interesting and meaningful book to say the least. And like Jung, gratitude must be given Richard Wilhelm for his insight in the East and translation of the text.<br /><br />A manual written symbolically for the practice of meditation, where thoughts are reduced to the square inch between the eyes, the eye lids half closed, eyes centered near the tip of the nose, the heart rate next to nothing in quietude, controlled breath of a circular motion that becomes quiet. The \\"white light\\" so spoken in Buddhist terms and various states of consciousness are related. However, this is far more than a mere meditation manual, but symbols which convey non-intellectual ideas, that is, non-Western rationalism, and yet significant and advanced in both it's teaching and applications.<br /><br />Ultimately for myself, it is Jung's commentary that my Western mind needed to interpret the text itself and the subsequent interpretations. I am moved in profundity on Jung's analysis that man's consciousness advances non-rationally, but psychically. Where the advancement cannot be spoken or written of in intellectual terms but rather can be done so in symbols. In this, Jung expounds on the idea that symbols convey advanced images that relate to the psyche and can never be proved intellectually or rationally. This is where images, as in Mandalas, come in. Images and symbols speak what words cannot. They are of a higher conscious level awareness, a psychical advancement. None of this is rationally or mathematically equated, none, nor can it be languistically conveyed. Humans can only point, using symbols and images, they can not expound, explain and reason on such.<br /><br />Jung's acknowledges the law of opposites and how the Chinese contain a higher culture or mind than the West, one that can contain contradictions or opposites without one-sided fundamentalism. And this is no doubt far ahead of most Western thinking in terms of black and white thinking, or what Jung calls barbarism. This reminds me of Walt Whitman's self poem of containing all contradictions and Keats \\"negative capabilities\\" and Shakespeare's comments on having all thoughts together without becoming irritable over such, and that including the beat poet, Allen Ginsberg, who spoke of the same.<br /><br />In Jung's memorial words dedicated to Richard Wilhelm, he relates to his thoughts on Synchronistic principle, which confirm his validity on the practices of Chinese wisdom found in I-Ching and Astrology, both sciences based not on Newtonian, or causality principles but rather through a remarkable phenomena of the unconscious, psychic parallelisms based which cannot be related to each other causally. The Tao will never be created with words and concepts, a teaching that is absent from the history of philosophy since the time of the pre-socratic, Heraclitus, and only reappears as a faint echo in Lebinitz.Whitman's self poem of containing all contradictions and Keats \\"negative capabilities\\" and Shakespeare's comments on having all thoughts together without becoming irritable over such, and that including the beat poet, Allen Ginsberg, who spoke of the same.     In Jung's memorial words dedicated to Richard Wilhelm, he relates to his thoughts on Synchronistic principle, which confirm his validity on the practices of Chinese wisdom found in I-Ching and Astrology, both sciences based not on Newtonian, or causality principles but rather through a remarkable phenomena of the unconscious, psychic parallelisms based which cannot be related to each other causally. The Tao will never be created with words and concepts, a teaching that is absent from the history of philosophy since the time of the pre-socratic, Heraclitus, and only reappears as a faint echo in Lebinitz.	2004-10-14
US	52783335	RYONKWZD8WNLY	0060930829	509660760	Spontaneous Mind: Selected Interviews, 1958-1996	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Perceptions of The Moment into Poetry	This book is loaded with information and after almost 600 pages later; here I am with an overview. Most of the books I read tend to be around 200 to 300 pages, so this book is like two or three books put together, consisting of different interviews from the 1950's to the 1990's and a very mixed bag, packed with intriguing thoughts of poetry, prosody, prose, Ginsberg and the Beatific scene that emerged from the late 1940's that subsequently influenced the psychedelic generation of the 60's.    There is some real insightful information on poetry here, very educational and foundational to the beatnik poetic movement, and poetry in general. Ginsberg relates his influential poets that inspired him, molding his thought processes and way of life. From Ezra Pounds, Walt Whitman, the painter Czanne, William Carlos Williams, Gertrude Stein, Rimbaud and from 1948 a mystical experience with the words of William Blake, whose voice appeared to him after masturbating and subsequently experiencing some other mystical visions and awareness. Blake, although not a living person from our time era, became Ginsberg's guru upon the advise of an Indian teacher. In some cases of poetry and linguistic teaching of stanzas and crescendos, I was reminded of Peter Eckermann's, Conversations of Goethe and their discussions.     There are great explanations of the spontaneous style of poetry, the Buddhist flashes of thoughts that come from the spaces between thoughts, that spring up in the perception of the moment, the present flash to be written down in that precise way, the style of momentary thought speech converted into writing and there you have Kerouac and Ginsberg and Burroughs, except with Burroughs it is with flashes of mental pictures converted into words. This is not the conventional style of sitting down and organizing formal structures, nor a laid out novel or rhyming poetry, no, it is spontaneous and attempts to capture the sudden flash of idea - \\"first thought, best thought\\" as Ginsberg's later teacher the Tibetan Buddhist Lama, Chogyam Trungpa shared with him, or visa versa, and it was Trungpa's school that also endorsed the Kerouac School for Disembodied Poets. Even Shakespeare was the spontaneous poet, \\"every third thought will be my grave,\\" unlike the mechanical, arid, conformity of what was taught in the Universities when Ginsberg attended in the 40's. So I say to this, hey, I guess Kerouac wasn't a babbling, rambling madman, but instead he was actual, solid, writing real bits of consciousness, at least according to Ginsberg. His words were like the jazz, the bebop of bits of everyday sudden speech, spontaneous.    Also are some great stories of the crew: Ginsberg, Burroughs, Kerouac, Cassidy, Snyder, and Orlovsky. Some of this gets rather explicit. Ginsberg was gay and I don't think that should be censored from this amazon review. In this book he is explicit in describing the love acts of himself and Kerouac, Orlovsky, Cassidy and others, including his acknowledgment of Walt Whitman homosexuality. Interestingly, in one interview, Ginsberg relates the highest love as a nonsexual male relationship - this sounds like Socrates at the Symposium.    There are also interviews relating to the Chicago Seven and it's political opposition to the conformity of the masculine police state mentality. Great thoughts on censorship, sacredness, hippie flower power, LSD, Yage, peyote, prosody, Bob Dylan, the Teton Mountains, Buddhist conceptions, the Cabala's ultimate science of ZimZum, detachment, karma, Ezra Pound, Dionysian orgies, the Berkley Renaissance, explicit sex (censorship), belly breathing, anger control, Visions of Cody, Hinduism and Woodsworth.    Of course there's a lot said of Ginsberg's poems such as Howl, Kaddish, Wichita Vortex Sutra, Fall of America and their influences and styles. There are also scores of book references that would take years to read, but nevertheless, great leads to book buying and increasing comprehension and insight into poetry, Ginsberg, Kerouac, Snyder, McClure, Corso, Ferlinghetti, Snyder, Burroughs, and the beatnik frame of no-mind.    This book teaches a lot and I am impressed at the amount of insight Ginsberg had, intellectually, emotionally, and poetically and if I can use the word \\"spiritually.\\"	2004-10-06
US	52783335	R3QWGTB2181JHB	1579510523	540761876	Your Brain Is God	Books	5	46	54	N	N	Liberation is The Freedom from Mental Conceptual Redundancy	A new science, with new practitioners - the psychedelic guides, having the profound opportunity and evolutionary significance of literally transforming humanity, changing the consciousness of social, cultural, environmental, linguistic and neurological patterns that inhibit humanity towards higher levels of awareness and being are briefly stated in this book. This was, and still is, revolutionary towards the beneficial growth of human development. What a sad document of fearful conditioned man to have rejected the science in this book, reverting back to simplistic, fundamental and dangerously limited snapshots of reality, each believing their \\"truths\\" as absolutes.    Apparently, there is a short time period as an infant only for many species, or both infant and early childhood for humans, which then ends shortly, permanently imprinting the human's social and cultural frame of mind through linguistics for the remainder of their lives. Experiments with birds and the immediate introduction towards a human, or even a ping-pong ball, causes the bird to search for this parental ideal the remainder of their lives. As humans we are subject to the attempt to the ideals that were first exposed to us in early childhood, attempting to get as close to that model for the remainder of our lives. Anotherwards we all take a still snapshot on reality, forever freezing our interpretation on what otherwise is a moving transient reality.     With psychedelics, there is an opening again as in infancy and early childhood where a person can perceive the moving essence of reality outside our snapshot of imprinted mindset, our still schematic, and see the moving, multifaceted reality in its many different levels, through more than one of the chakras, where one then reimprints their minds with new perceptions of reality and refocuses on previous chessboard structures, thus re-entry into society with much broader and wider perceptive capabilities with significant healing properties that are extremely beneficial.    I am moved by Leary's Galilean venture into the neurological areas of subjective experience, experiential awareness to cellular memories, DNA communication of evolutionary and primordial psychological areas. To venture beyond the grasp of conditioned minds, outside the held structures into a transient moving reality, areas of non-communicative being. It is here Leary introduces a few of the psychedelic prayers of a previous book, moving symbols in language for the lysergitized conscious.     On page 48: \\"It is crucial philosophic importance to understand that neurology, genetics, and quantum physics are all - in their separate narrow vectors into the future - coming to understand that evolving human intelligence is apparently designed to shape the universe, to navigate the process of evolution, and to fabricate the structure of personal reality. All modern sciences accept that pay respect to the subjectivity of the experience.\\"    \\"To understand that your are designed to be God-the-Universe-Creator, you must first grasp the implication of the Heisenberg principle of determinacy - abjectly, cravenly, primitively called indeterminacy. Heisenberg's wonderful, liberating discovery states that the scientist determines the nature of experiment. Modern quantum physics is currently producing scenarios involving multiple realities, indeed, infinite universe, determined by the attitudes and mental structures and measurements of the observer. Prominent and distinguished physicists have actually suggested that the universe which we measure with our instruments is a production of our thought.\\"    On pages 66-67: \\"Liberation is the nervous system devoid of mental conceptual redundancy. The mind in its conditioned state, limited to words and ego games, is continuously in thought-formation activity. The nervous system in a state of quiescence, alert, awake but not active, is comparable to what Buddhists call the highest state of dhyana or deep meditation. The conscious recognition of the Clear Light induces an ecstatic condition of consciousness such as saints and mystics of the West have called illumination.\\"    On page 86: \\"The \\"turned on\\" person realizes that every action is a reflection of where s/he is at. The \\"turned on\\" person knows his world is created by his consciousness-existing only because s/he has arranged his sensory and neural cameras to shoot these particular scenes. His movements, dress, grooming, room, house, the neighborhood in which s/he lives, are exact external replicas of his state of consciousness. If the outside environment doesn't harmonize with his state of mind, s/he knows that s/he must move gracefully to get in tune.    This book touches on the ego-loss, preparing for a session, the use of the Tibetan book of the dead and the non-religious symbols of Taoism, LSD as a Sacrament and our dropping out of the chessboard games, turning on to our neurological divnity, and tuning into our divinity, making our environment, our place of dwelling, our clothes, our walk, our talk - our psyche divine, flowing and \\"beautiful.\\"	2004-09-28
US	52783335	RZ0Y69CNEF8DV	9686769013	36215520	Siddharta (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Beautiful Story to Describe The Subjective Non-Descriptive	A great book that had me completely subjective to the storyline, into the journey of Siddhartha and the many other characters: his childhood friend - Govinda, his father, his later lover - Kamala, his son, his acquaintance with the Buddha, his friend and teacher - Vasudeva the ferryman and others.<br /><br />It's a very interesting story of a spiritual seeker who at the very end of the novel manifests his enlightenment, as his childhood friend, Govinda, experiences. The journey of spiritual seeking, of learning and taking in knowledge, of asceticism, of sexuality and love, of power seeking and money making, of both poor homelessness and luxuriant living and its eventual culmination, the outcome of the spiritual enlightenment: the subjective experience beyond all knowledge and teachings, transcending all the relative and transitory existence into a unity of Being.<br /><br />Now it's the way Hesse writes and his descriptive and artistic style that weigh his story of the enlightened soul and I found it outstanding. Similar to his other book, Journey to the East, the story leads up to the final outcome, the ending of the novel, the last chapter, explains what can not be explained culminating from the entire story line.<br /><br />The story itself depends on the readers individual experiential spiritual seeking and both external and internal search. The external eventually leads to the internal where all lies in mystical experience and the internal and personal spiritual development.<br /><br />I can't help but continue visualizing the last scene of the book with the sudden flash of Siddhartha's translucent smiling face overseeing the realm of multifaceted relativity in its complete unity under the mystical kiss of Govinda on Siddhartha's farhead and his perceived subjectivity of consciousness and marvel at Hesse's attempted descriptive undertaking of the Nirvana and subjective experience. What an awesome attempt to convey such a non-thing and Hesse is a great and unique writer.	2004-09-28
US	52783335	R1Z3PJ8RJFRWFP	0553208845	36215520	Siddhartha	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Beautiful Story to Describe The Subjective Non-Descriptive	A great book that had me completely subjective to the storyline, into the journey of Siddhartha and the many other characters: his childhood friend - Govinda, his father, his later lover - Kamala, his son, his acquaintance with the Buddha, his friend and teacher - Vasudeva the ferryman and others.<br /><br />It's a very interesting story of a spiritual seeker who at the very end of the novel manifests his enlightenment, as his childhood friend, Govinda, experiences. The journey of spiritual seeking, of learning and taking in knowledge, of asceticism, of sexuality and love, of power seeking and money making, of both poor homelessness and luxuriant living and its eventual culmination, the outcome of the spiritual enlightenment: the subjective experience beyond all knowledge and teachings, transcending all the relative and transitory existence into a unity of Being.<br /><br />Now it's the way Hesse writes and his descriptive and artistic style that weigh his story of the enlightened soul and I found it outstanding. Similar to his other book, Journey to the East, the story leads up to the final outcome, the ending of the novel, the last chapter, explains what can not be explained culminating from the entire story line.<br /><br />The story itself depends on the readers individual experiential spiritual seeking and both external and internal search. The external eventually leads to the internal where all lies in mystical experience and the internal and personal spiritual development.<br /><br />I can't help but continue visualizing the last scene of the book with the sudden flash of Siddhartha's translucent smiling face overseeing the realm of multifaceted relativity in its complete unity under the mystical kiss of Govinda on Siddhartha's farhead and his perceived subjectivity of consciousness and marvel at Hesse's attempted descriptive undertaking of the Nirvana and subjective experience. What an awesome attempt to convey such a non-thing and Hesse is a great and unique writer.	2004-09-28
US	52783335	R20YFDTQ9WDAUI	1579510175	706231609	Change Your Brain	Books	5	39	40	N	N	Consciousness Beyond The Mind - The Esoteric Secret	This is valuable information, not from a guru or merely eccentric mind, no, but from a former Harvard University psychologist who subjectively and objectively and systematically tested, experimented and clinically proved that LSD and other psychedelics and their subsequent human reactions, mind interpretations and experiential conscious observations were both beneficial and related to outside the limited human mind or chessboards of values and ideas. Of course the government's are threatened by any and all such ideas that venture outside their limited schematical ideas and systems used for social structure, control and submissive subjection and therefore administer intensely unjust persecution.    But to write this information off as arbitrary and valueless is the common human response to change and growth as a human evolutionary species, a rejection that has been practiced since the beginning of time. Therefore those enlightened by such spiritual, rational/non-rational perceptive illuminations have remained relatively unspoken for many thousands of years and have paradoxically been the progenitors of all religious teachings and many political ideologies.     From chapter 8: \\"To use our heads, to push out beyond words, space-time categories, social identifications, models and concepts, it becomes necessary to go out of our generally rational minds. . .     Our present mental machinery cannot possibly handle the whirling, speed-of-light, trackless processes of our brain, our organ of consciousness itself. . .     We cannot study the brain, the instrument for fabricating the realities we inhabit, using the mental constructs of the past. . . \\"    And from Chapter 9:  \\"From the standpoint of established values, the psychedelic process is dangerous and insane - a deliberate pscyhotization, a suicidal undoing of the equilibrium man should be striving for. With its internal, invisible, indescribable phenomena, the psychedelic experience is incomprehensible to a rational, achievement-oriented, conformist philosophy. but to one ready to experience the exponential view of the universe, psychedelic experience is exquisitely effective preparation for the inundation of data and problems to come.\\"    What impressed me about Leary's information is that of mental imprinting - which only occurs during infancy and/or early childhood, the period of stasis -  which is basically our entire lives, and the idea of reimprinting, or breaking on through the imprinted frozen or previously impressed mind - which can occur through psychedelics.     Apparently, there is a short time period as an infant only for many species, or both infant and early childhood for humans, which then ends shortly, permanently imprinting the humans social and cultural frame of mind through linguistics for the remainder of their lives. Experiments with birds and the immediate introduction towards a human, or even a ping pong ball, causes the bird to search for this parental ideal the remainder of their lives. As humans we are subject to the attempt to the ideals that were first exposed to us in early childhood, attempting to get as close to that model for the remainder of our lives, anotherwards we all take a still snapshot on reality, forever freezing our interpretation on what otherwise is a moving transient reality.    With psychedelics, there is an opening again as in infancy and early childhood where a person can perceive the moving essence of reality outside our snapshot of imprinted mindset, our still schematic, and see the moving, multifacted reality in its many different levels, through more than one of the chakras, where one then reimprints their minds with new perceptions of reality and refocuses on previous chessboard structures, thus re-entry into society with much broader and wider perceptive capabilities with significant healing properties that are extremely beneficial.     This book is truly ahead of it's time, and of course, rejected as non-conforming to traditional paradigms and therefore considered a major threat to the comfort zones of our societal and cultural games that we take too seriously as a one and only level of reality.	2004-09-25
US	52783335	R36XAURPFNKAOH	0312421680	583194370	The Journey to the East	Books	5	19	23	N	N	Only in Non-Linguistic Experiential Subjectivity Goes East	This book is a great read in mysticism and personal journey that portrays the value in subjectivity alone that exists in value of the mystical experience. No other as a guide, or written accounts, or league documents will do. There must be faith in non-verbal, non-linguistic experiential consciousness that outweighs all other means in order to find what one is deep down searching for.     Here Hesse joins a league and journeys to the east in search of an ideal, the beautiful Fatima. In his journey he experiences poetics and symbols that appear greater than the poets and people themselves, something beyond linguistics and explanations, things that cannot be simply written down in books for others to interpret, but rather only with personal experiences can such come about. His feeble attempts to write down in words such explanations of his journey and experience prove entirely futile and so does the vast array of other accounts attempted in such, including all attempts to even describe the league itself. Hesse finds out that only in despair does one continue his journey of experience that eventually learns to disregard the intellectual mind and it's attempt at explanations. Ultimately, it is only the experiential and subjective nature that has any value at all and subsequently, the eventual dissolving of oneself into all others, a unity that brings forth personal experience, mystical awareness: nothing else will suffice. And such a dissolving of the self, Hesse witnessed symbolically in a melting of a self portrait candle figure into a self portrait candle figure of the league's president.    This book is short and an easy read for the avid book reader. If you're ready as an individual, you will understand this message, a beautiful and inspiring message; the profound \\"isness\\" in non-linguistic, non-logical subjectivity, the magic, wonder and marvel of simply \\"being.\\" Babies, that's right, infants, \\"know,\\" unlike some of the greatest intellectuals and well-read amazonbook reviewers. To understand is of course tied up with the individual's own spiritual journey toward the east. A wonderful book.	2004-09-24
US	52783335	R3MUW0WDHKXB5K	1560254475	406578803	The Poet in Exile: A Novel	Books	4	8	12	N	Y	From Dionysian to Krishna	I enjoyed this book and found it an interesting read, yet I have to contend with the previous reviewer's words of a \\"smiley face\\" on Jim Morrison, a Dionysian of life in the fast lane, \\"live fast, die young,\\" to not only a now settled down man, but one whose been enlightened with unique spiritual experiences, wisdom and a previous pilgrimage to India. No doubt this is all dreamland and wishful thinking, but then again, isn't that what a novel is all about? To dream the improbable, the unbelievable, or in this case, bordering on nave idealism? And so, as ridiculous as it is; two perfect blonde haired children (a boy and a girl), the loving wife and cook, an ideal marriage, the paradise setting, the island, the perfect little cottage and so forth, (of course he has to die at the end) there are the ideals of happiness, contentment and enlightenment, so far removed from the frantic, hectic, frenzy of Dionysian raw creativity. Ok, this is completely far fetched, but I enjoyed reading it anyway. Just don't take this book as a literal or actuality in the Morrison journey. To see the Buddha, the Govinda or the Baba or the enlightened soul of spiritual quest in Morrison is totally out of my perception in what a satyr or the \\"Jimbo\\" will ever do, but this is fiction and if you look back to the era, the 60's, the psychedelic experience was to leave the Dionysian frenzy, to transcend the Apollonian forms and climb outside the Socratic chessboards of reality into a re-imprinting of understanding that all humanity thinks under the social, cultural and linguistic conditioning of it's time, and that peace, love, understanding and tolerance will join the new comprehension of relativity in a new language of symbols to be created or invented. But this sounds more like the rest of the Doors, not Morrison, no way. \\"Jimbo,\\" had the two personas of Dr. Jeckel and Mr. Hyde and never did enter into this area of consciousness. And so here is a novel, a dream-wish of Ray Manzarek. You can either look at reality and puke at the new smiley face or you can see the love that this good friend of the former poet still has living inside of him and enjoy the ride into fantasy and adventure with a happy ending, although I find a happy ending just not realistic, nor anything in the dual personality of Morrison's psyche, you just have to read Denzmore's account for that, which I find valid. One memory that stands out is Morrison's meeting with Joplin; what a pr**k, this good ole' southern rebel rouser boy he was.    Thanks for the ride Ray, I like the way you think (and write). There's a lot of cool references to other writers and thoughts that carried these guys (The Doors) and other influencial persons that in turn have influenced myself.	2004-09-23
US	52783335	R3H2QR98AZH6J0	0521065208	169038688	The Two Cultures and a Second Look: An Expanded Version of the Two Cultures and the Scientific Revolution	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Always a Tradeoff - Integration Should Be The Goal	C.P. Snow argues about two cultures he was personally part of: the literary intellectuals and the science intellectuals. And in these two cultures there is a serious lack of communication and inter subjective knowledge. While this may be true, I find it's a very limited argument and fails to take in the many different subcultures that may or may not be the strength of industrialization but nevertheless influences the social and cultural whole of the both the countries and world we know of. Also disregarded is Western civilization's pragmatism that has permeated since the enlightenment, the ideas of separation of religion and state are also applied to all teachings apart from the universals of liberty, individual rights and the pursuit of happiness. So the scientists will lack in the social and literary fields, while the literary and cultural intellectuals will lack in the technological fields. Specialization has most certainly increased from the medieval period to the Renaissance to the Industrial revolution and scientific achievements, to the current information age, although this book was written well before in 1959 and 1963.    Integration is necessary to reach planetary unity and peace, however degrees of compartmentalization are required to technologize the world. So there has to be some balance here. Snow does make a well-known point in the comparisons of industrialized nations verses the undeveloped and there is a clear different in the level of living conditions. Capital, manpower and educative resources are required in all countries for integration to occur.     I agree that man is much better off in the industrialized nations as opposed to those that are not, however, much of the agricultural societies that existed prior to the Renaissance and Enlightenment were from a self-employed collective society that lacked the existential despair and Anst from lack of security that we have so prevalent today. Thus they existed in far more psychological security andthere's much to be said on that for the human psyche. To be a self-employed artisan over a low paid factory employee, this is the result and it was not always favorable. There is a trade-off and the demystification and desacredization are serious and profound negative consequences in our modern technological society. Feudal agricultural and superstition have left but the radical wonder and appreciative amazement of childlike marvel with fascination and curiosity have long gone as well.    However Snow makes a good argument on the stupidity of any groups that have power and influence over society. Such groups should not lack in either literary and technological knowledge - as the majority of the leaders of our government do today, and the public for that matter, thus endorsing many (not all) inadequate governmental decisions based on surface and shallow reasonings. And thus we have overpopulation, destruction of the environment, nuclear weapons, and religious absolutism, the loss of pragmatism, cultural warfare and so forth.     Also, I didn't particularly care for the writing style of this book and had trouble digesting it. If it was written less arbitrarily, with fewer words I think it would be even much smaller than it already is, but more tolerable as well.	2004-09-23
US	52783335	R3CUJMEAJN0OP8	1579510310	314669675	The Politics of Ecstasy (Leary, Timothy)	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Expanding Consciousness Beyond the Mind's Homocentric Limits	Wow! What a book! Leary is a real psychedelic guru, not in the orthodox sense, but really a man ahead of his time, a Galileo in the charter exploration of the mind and consciousness. He started off as a conservative Harvard professor, yet not so conservative, as he had his own ideas. But after his religious experience, and that's what psychedelics do - the expanding of your consciousness to a religious experience - he became aware of the societal and cultural chessboards - the games - and here became outspoken apart from the Harvard rationalistic mindset which rests on only one static frame of a multi-dimensional, dynamic existence.    I read this book smiling, over and over again. I walked down the street with a smile, mostly for Leary's optimism, then his frank and bold statements, which in most part I agree with. His style sometimes just makes you laugh and smile and say to yourself \\"I wish I had the guts enough say this.\\" And although his predictions did not come true, you can't help but subjectively comprehend the 60's atmosphere, enveloped with the baby boomers in their youth taking up the majority of the population and their experiential drug use in psychedelics, which in turn, brought forth all the femininity of creativeness, patience, tolerance, peacefulness and artistic development that was permeating the entire American culture and spreading around the world and thus brought on the male dominated aggression of control and police power. So Leary's optimism and predictions were really a good assessment of the time despite their failure to come true. And nothing makes me sadder than to see his predictions fail from the creative mind expanding youth to our current male power, controlling and agressive society.    You can write Leary off as a kook from the conservative's point of view, the rationalist who never \\"experienced,\\" and that's the KEY here - never experienced a trip under favorable circumstances and environment. Leary is the same as other heretics and kooks of history, a Galileo of mind exploration and conscious expansion, a Guttenberg of exoteric enlightenment, as in this book as well as one who clearly recognizes the need for new symbols that relate the esoteric experience of LSD, of cellular memories, of DNA language outside the mind, of experiential journeys that can only be told under a new language, as the microscope discovered new world had brought forth, as quantum physics brought forth and every other new fields of exploration that can only be described outside the current symbols we currently use.     Leary on page 141: The lesson I have learned from over 300 sessions, and which I have been passing on to others, can be stated in 6 syllables: Turn on, tune in, drop out. \\"Turn on\\" means to contact the ancient energies and wisdoms that are built into your nervous system. They provide unspeakable pleasure and revelation. \\"Tune in\\" means to harness and communicate these new perspectives in a harmonious dance with the external world. \\"Drop out' means to detach yourself from the tribal game. Current models of social adjustment - mechanized, computerized, socialized, intellectualized, televised, Sanforized - make no sense to the new LSD generation, who see clearly that American society is becoming an air-conditioned anthill. In every generation of human history, thoughtful men have turned on and dropped out of the tribal game and thus stimulated the larger society to lurch ahead. Every historical advance has resulted from the stern pressure of visionary men who have declared their independence from the game.    On page 196: My philosophy of life has been tremendously influenced by my study of oriental philosophy and religion. Of course, what the American, regardless of his religious belief, doesn't understand is that the aim of oriental religious is to get high, to have an ecstasy, to tune in, to turn on, to contact incredible diversity, beauty, living, pulsating meaning of the sense organs, and the much morecomplicated and pleasurable and revelatory messages of cellular energy. To a Hindu, the spiritual quest is internal.     Different sects of oriental religion use different methods and different body organs to find God. The Shivites use the senses; the followers of Vishnu are concerned with cellular wisdom, contacting the endless flow of reincarnation wisdom which biochemists would call protein wisdom of the DNA code; Buddhist manuals on consciousness expansion are concerned with the flash, the white light of the void, the ecstatic union that comes when you're completely turned on, beyond the senses, beyond the body.    On page 202-203: What we're doing for the mind is what the microbiologists did for the external science 300 years ago when they discovered the microscope. And they made this incredible discovery that life, health, growth, every form of organic life, is based on the cell, which is invisible.    You've never seen a cell; what do you think of that? Yet it's the key to everything that happens to a living creature. I'm simply saying that same thing from the mental, psychological standpoint, that there are wisdoms, lawful units inside the nervous system, invisible to the symbolic mind, which determine almost everything.     And I don't consider myself that mystical - unless you'd call someone who looks through a microscope a mystic, because he's telling you about something for which you don't have the symbols. Or the astronomer who detects a quasar and speculates about it.     On page 208: Every time you take LSD you completely suspend - you step outside of - the symbolic chessboard which you have built up over the long years of social conditioning. And you whirl through different levels of neurological and cellular energy, continually flowing and changing.    Your symbolic mind is flashing in and out. You never love your mind during and LSD session. It's always there, but it's one of a thousand cameras that are flashing away. Of course, the LSD freak-out,or paranoia, is where the symbolic mind freezes any aspect of the LSD session and defines a new reality, which can be positive or negative.     Read this book.	2004-09-21
US	52783335	R3O5IYNNPDB0QW	0802132952	783763378	Naked Lunch	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Perception Through Sadomasochistic Prose	This book is both hard to understand and speaking for myself, somewhat mentally disturbing. I also found this book boring, similar to Kerouac's \\"Visions of Cody\\" and Richard Farina's \\"Been down so long it looks like up to me.\\" Most reviewers who say these books are \\"brilliant,\\" are just following the \\"in\\" crowd and don't want to sound unsophisticated, but these books suck!    I'm not saying it's a bad book, but not for my psyche maybe, however there are many reviews that find this book a literary masterpiece in avant garde, in spontaneous flashes of insight over organized, plotted out themes.    There's no doubt this book was ahead of it's time in both it's \\"cut-up,\\" colloge style and it's modern expose of the lifestyle of a depraved junkie and sexually explicit, violently extreme, grotestly vile. And there seems to be this painful suffering with pleasure to writing sexual experiences and mental patients being chemically abused, bloody doctor fights in operating rooms for abortions, and eating s**t and generally depravity and a perception bound by a negative struggle.    It's written in a style that's not easy reading and yet very descriptive with tangent laced directions taking you in many different places, all so with a lot of non-conformist sexuality (to say the least), drug addiction, and the life that devalues and demoralizes others, abuses others both mentally and physically, that finds pleasure in seeing other's pains and torture, and somehow through the thick of it all, seems to enjoy the intense emotional and mental suffering. An ideal book for the lovers of sadism and masochism, as there is a lot of pleasure in the suffering of the pain of both the self and other people.    Although at this time of writing I haven't read other books of Burroughs, but in relation to the descriptive tangents of this book written in multiple directions, I found such hard to digest, that is in a coherent organized way, thus making this book a difficult reading of you would normally find; the sequential reading found in novels. And it appears that the reason for this hard digestion of words is the style of Burroughs writing that Allen Ginsberg speaks about from a 1968 interview in the book, Spontaneous Mind, page 136, says on the writing method of Burroughs;     \\"Now Burroughs doesn't see words - words don't go through his head, pictures go through his head. So his method of composition is sitting before a typewriter sort of looking up in the middle distance at the wall, seeing pictures flash through head like . . . mugwumps seated on a barstool slurping up honey with a long reptilian tongue. And then he simply transcribes it into pictures - words, picture words.\\" Burroughs also writes in letter to Ginsberg describing his cut-up style of writing, that is, to cut up the sentences and rearrange them in any order\\"    And from Yage Letters p.59, in a letter to Allen Ginsberg, William Burroughs writes,    \\"Take the enclosed copy of the letter. Cut along the lines. Rearrange putting section one by section three and section two by section four. Now read aloud and you will hear My Voice. Whose voice? Listen. Cut and rearrange in any combination. Read aloud. I can not choose but hear. Don't think about it. Don't theorize. Try it. Do the same with your poems. With any poems any prose. Try it. You want 'Help.' Her it is. Pick it up on it. And always remember 'Nothing is True, Everything is permitted.' Last Words of Hassan Sabbah. The Old man Of The Mountain.\\"	2004-09-17
US	52783335	R17RBCJQU9JTZ7	0062503731	74742025	The Way of the Shaman	Books	5	20	29	N	Y	Good Introduction to Shamanism	This book appears to be a good introduction to shamanism and both its universal teachings and applications that can be found in shamanism throughout the world, separated by oceans and continents and yet with universal concepts beyond the individual tribal codes and interpretations. I think this is a good book for the Westerner to be introduced to basic shamanism, but not for someone from an actual tribe that practices shamanism, as this book is very limited, ignoring or excluding the individual codes based on ethnic and tribal beliefs    As a cultural relativist and somewhat of a deconstructionist and instrumentalist, I pragmatically consider all conceptions, and especially those spiritual frameworks, religious interpretations and the identifying of entities, in this case power animal spirits and plant spirits with journeys to the lowerworld visualized in the shamanistic state of consciousness, as all perceived through the human interpretative mind, the mind that filters, interprets, categorizes and projects reality according to its linguistic, social, tribal and cultural preferences. Therefore I take Shamanism face value while simultaneously recognize the serious limitations it occurs.     Shamanism interprets the trance as an entry into a lowerworld, with various spirit guardians and techniques to achieve their presence, as well as the techniques to remove the evil or negative powers spirits that cause illness to others. So there are many specifics you must believe in, in order to accept the whole shamanistic teachings.     Ultimately, I find you must be under the influence of a sacred psychedelic plant (as many Shamans are) to understand or perceive reality outside the limited human mind, and once you do you can interpret reality entirely different or with a broader view in perspective. It is under this trance of wider perception, of a \\"mind at large' (Huxley) that you can at least perhaps enter areas of genius and radical wonder beyond the rational discursive mind, into the world of imagination and visionary realms of non-empirical but entirely \\"real,\\" despite its subjective nature. The use of psychedelic or etheogenic plants I think is crucial to perceiving reality beyond the Western logic into shamanistic dimensions. And even then reality is limited to our understanding and we must make choices as to the existence of lowerworlds and power animal guardian spirits.     And yet there is a level of medicine that modern technology does not cover, another dimension. And it appears that the shaman's consciousness is symbolic for something much different than modern medicine, a realm of emotional, spiritual, neurological that in someway is tapped into with shamanism. This guide, may be a powerful animal spirit, or perhaps our higher selves or our through our DNA messaging us. This guide, or helper could be our own neurological make up, or God, however what it really is beyond the symbols of tunnels, plants, animals and insects is phenomenally not known, however its with shamanism that this part of the human consciousness is touched on and used. So it appears to me that there is something very significant about shamanism despite its lack of explanation through our rational and modern scientific minds.    On page 175, Harner writes: \\"Possibly science will eventually find that the unconscious mind of the shaman's patient, under the influence of sonic driving, is being 'programmed by the ritual to activate the body's immune system against disease. . . The burgeoning field of holistic medicine shows a tremendous amount of experimentation involving the reinvention of many techniques long practiced in shamanism, such as visualization, altered state of consciousness, aspects of psychoanalysis, hypnotherapy, meditation, positive attitude, stress-reduction, and mental and emotional expression of personal will for health and healing. In a sense, shamanism is being reinvented in the West precisely because it is needed.\\"	2004-09-16
US	52783335	R2D6WIKD0FR8YU	0802131867	727771871	The Subterraneans	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Young America - Bohemian Mystery, Existential Void	A very Kerouac novel. The love affair of Leo Percepied and a beautiful Black/Indian girl named Mardou, who the hoodlum looking Leo, separated her from the subterranean pack. Whirling in spiral moving descriptive memories of people, places, insecurities, unconscious thoughts and affairs. There's the good, bad and the ugly, thoughts and words that you'd find in many love relationships, in this instance, in one of the beats with the crazy tea smoking, bar hopping, relational attachments, sexual encounters, distancing of themselves, interior questions of unspoken thoughts that live subconsciously, some of them from dating outside the race, from drinking excessively, from jealously and the idea of not finding or really knowing who the self really is in the beat existential movement of spontaneity, where the plan, one day, was to go to Mexico, but first to buy some clothes and Gerry Mulligan records. But in the end jealously, a lack of passion, which is very existential and yet the pattern of inability to sit still and rest becomes emotionally impossible.     The story is great Kerouac. It has this subtle sadness of existential angst, the emptiness of life as in Dostoevsky and Camus, the casual nature and lost souls of modern living and living in indulgence, drunkenness, socialness that lacks a depth of stability, a stronghold where intellectual and literary meanings can not fulfill, devoid of a centering which can not be found in the subterranean life of the late 40's - 50's avant garde.     And this appears to me as the Kerouac trademark: a jazz styled prose of spontaneous expression from the \\"real,\\" non-conditioned, non-image-to-portray self, an existential life of despair in fast paced living with the rush of jazz, drink, sex, travel, under the literary and scholarly ideals of avant garde sophistication, adventure, desires, seeking new discoveries, walking places one never has been before, risk taking and traveling, all so under this empty void of utter lonely existence, devoid of substantial meanings of foundational holds and securities, walking in the desert not knowing when water will appear and if it does, if this water will sustain life or poison it. So there's this emptiness, this sadness of it all in the modern man and woman, both subterranean and beatnik.	2004-09-15
US	52783335	RK1SL9AR6ETJ5	0914171801	783106481	High Priest (Leary, Timothy)	Books	5	40	46	N	N	Escaping the Mind's Prison Into Neurological Ecstasy	I'm sad to finish this book, as I have walked with Leary with his first mushroom encounter in Mexico, walked with his colleges and friends, from Dick Albert (Ram Dass), Robert Metzner, Huston Smith, Aldous Huxley, Walter Clark, Walter Puhnke, Michael Hollingshead, Alan Watts, Allen Ginsberg - I love Ginsberg - , Gordon Wasson,  Frank Barrons and even William Burroughs. From his Millbrook estate to his Harvard studies, prison studies, first LSD trip, to his religious experiential studies and the amazing internal transformations that for myself are greatly superior to static intellectualism. And yet using such intellectual insights coupled with subjective encounters - in allusive non-categorical observance - brings forth the dynamics of Leary's story.  <br /> <br />There is far too much information to relate here, the book is enlightening.  <br />All together 16 trips or stories along with various quotes from magazine articles, short thoughts, to excerpts from other books from Ginsberg, Hollingshead, Wasson, Walter Houston Clark, Huxley and others make this book not only informative, but really do capture what is intended to be conveyed - the mystical- religious - subjective - internal - experiential - magical/irrational experience of psychedelics and most importantly, their beneficial use in social, psychological, ontological, neurological, rehabilitative, and spiritual uses. There is no doubt in my mind as to the benefits of psychedelics for the human race. <br /> <br />\\"Everyone who isn't tripping himself because he's too scared or tired is going to resent our doing it. Sex, drugs, fun, travel, dancing, loafing. You name it. Anything that's pleasurable is going to bring down the wrath of the power-control people. Because the essence of ecstasy and the essence of religion and the essence of orgasm (and they're all pretty much the same) is that you give up power and swing with it. And the cats who can't do that end up with the power and they use it to punish the innocent and the  happy. And they'll try to make us look bad and feel bad.\\" P. 79 <br /> <br /> <br />This quote (and others) reminds me of Ray Manzarek's story in his book, Light My Fire, of visiting a Las Vegas style rat pack record executive who literally flipped out after hearing a tape of The Doors, hearing that they were psychedelic orientated music. The power people can never accept surrender and vulnerability that comes with the internal search as opposed to the external control. <br /> <br />\\"The threshold of adult game life is the ancient and natural time for the rebirth experience, the flip-out trip from which you come back as a man. A healthy society provides and protects the sacredness of the teen-age psychedelic voyage. A sick, society fears and forbids the revelation.\\" p. 133 <br /> <br /> <br />Trip 1 is Leary's non-chemical death and rebirth of a physical sickness. <br /> <br /> <br />Trip 2 is the story of Leary's discover of the mushroom in Mexico with some substantial quotes from Gordon Wasson on mushrooms. <br /> <br /> <br />Trip 3 has Dick Albert, Jack and Timothy Leary flying in Dick's plane. It also contains Leary's Playboy interview, other magazine quotes and quotes from Albert Cohen and Shiller's LSD. <br /> <br /> <br />Trip 6 has Ginsberg and Peter Orlovsky walking around naked, Ginsberg telephoning his pal Jack Kerouac and some great Ginsberg quotes! The movement to turn on the world - well intentioned, but naive, the power people would never submit nor allow such conscious expansion beyond the control principal to continue. <br /> <br /> <br />Trip 7 talks about the rational thinking of Arthur Koestler's verses the irrationality of a LSD - religious experience and how the two don't see eye to eye. <br /> <br /> <br />Trip 9 shows the benefits of incarcerated prisoner rehabilitation and recidivism rate decrease from LSD therapy. <br /> <br /> <br />Trip 11 touches on William Burroughs and how he thinks on another tribal level, as we all come from different tribal evolutionary thinking. In the end Burroughs drops out of the clan and disapproves of the way Leary, his fellow Harvard and other constituents handle the mushroom  therapy - Leary's got a monopoly on love. <br />Trip 12 is about Michael Hollingshead's famous mayonnaise jar of LSD and Leary's first experience along with the Jazz musician and his wife, Maynard and Flo Ferguson. And amazing account, really. And Leary, as Huxley has written in 1953, was forever a changed man. He had seen the games, the roles played, the human fallibility of truths, statistics, ideals and so forth from an objective standpoint, from the ultimate subjective standpoint.  <br /> <br /> <br />Trip 15's Good Friday experiment under the coaxing of the intellectual and scholar Walter Pahnke is also an incredible story and ultimately Leary admits that the mind expansive consciousness is not a rational Descartes mind set, but a religious experience and of course, not under any particular religious structure - in this case Christianity is very constraining, limiting and restraining. <br /> <br /> <br />I love the explanation in Trip 16 that Leary related from Pat Bolero to a fellow psychologist who not only became fearful when hearing of \\"drugs\\" but could not comprehend her words that attempted to point to the clarity outside of the discursive mindset. <br /> <br /> <br />This book has some great Allen Ginsberg quotes and stories, great Burroughs stories, Leary's family, Dick Albert, Michael Hollingshead and many other intellectuals, scholars, divinity school students, the Good Friday experiment, artists, poets, theologians. I love his daughter's, Susan Leary, account of her growing up and observing the LSD sessions, of Alan Watts and others. The trip in Tim's place with Dick Albert, both erroneously thinking the pet dog was dying and other stories make this a very entertaining book to read. But ultimately, its the beneficial attributes from the psychedelic sessions weightedagainst the opposition that really make this book totally worthwhile. <br /> <br /> <br />\\"Reality and the addiction to any one reality is a tissue-thin neurological fragility. At the height of a visionary experience it is crystal-clear that you can change completely. Be an entirely different person. Be any person you choose. It is a moment of rebirth . . . . It is habit, fear and laziness that keep people from changing after an LSD experience. It's so much easier to doubt your divinity, drift back to speaking English, wearing ties, playing the old game. p. 334 <br /> <br /> <br />\\"There comes a point in every lifetime when the blinders are removed and the individual glimpses for a second the nature of the process. This revelation comes through a biochemical change in the body. A Twist of the protein key and you see where you are at in the total process. p. 336 <br /> <br /> <br />One thing I've learned as a prison psychiatrist is that society doesn't want the prisoner rehabilitated, and as soon as you start changing prisoners so that they discover beauty and wisdom, God, you're going to stir up the biggest mess that Boston has seen since the Boston Tea Party. . . sooner or later, as soon as they see the thing you do is working, they're going to come down on you 0- the newspaper reporters, the bureaucrats, and the officials. Harvard given drugs to prisoners! p. 18 <br /> <br />I had seen enough and read enough of the anti-vision crowd, the power-holders with guns, and the bigger and better men we got on your team the stronger our position. p. 128 <br /> <br /> <br />We even ran sessions for parole officers and correction officials (they tripped). Some of them had unhappy trips. People committed to external power are frightened by the release of ecstasy because the key is surrender of external power. One chief parole officer flipped out paranoid at my house and accused us of a Communist conspiracy and stormed around while Madison Presnell curled up on the couch watching, amused at the white folks frantically learning how to get high. He grinned at me. So you call it the love drug? p. 208	2004-09-14
US	52783335	R1XJVHXMOOL3NA	0200040189	117347509	The man who turned on the world	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Best Internal & External Bio of the Psychedelic Experience	A must read for the history of modern America psychedelics!! Great autobiography and history of the psychedelic movement! The perfect book to read after Timothy Leary's High Priest, which is where I'm coming from.  And you can get a HTML copy of this on acidmagic.com. I printed 213 pages. This book is for anyone interested in Mysticism and internal spiritual seeking and the meanings within psychedelics. I'm saddened that this book is out of print and unavailable for a decent price.     Where Leary leaves off, Hollingshead picks up and goes further down the historical road of psychedelics and its progenitors, describing the psychedelic renaissance from the Leary-Albert streams into that of a whole movement, first of Harvard 1960-61, then of the International Federation for Internal Freedom in the 1963-64, the Agora Scientific Trust, Inc in Manhattan 1963 and Castalia Foundation (named after Herman Hesse's book) of 1964-67 and the League for Spiritual Discovery of 1966-68, etc., etc., expression of the metaphysical reality and the beauty of the flower of the spirit, the Age of the Flower Children born out of the individual experience of transcendence as in an earlier age, the Vedic Soma that brought the light of consciousness into the world.    Hollingshead has been there, said that, done that and has done a hell of lot more than most people I've had contact with. He's the man with the famous Maionaise Jar with 5,000 hits of pure Ergot acid, the man who first turned on Timothy Leary and Richard Albert (Ram Dass), Maynard and Flo Ferguson and many, many others.     Hollingshead knowledge of the external movement and influence of psychedelics is both impressive and of great interest, things you find out that you never knew but wish you had. But ultimately, it's his understanding and depth of the internal Buddhistic, ego-crushing descriptions, his Eastern and Western comparisons, that have me loving this book as a real treasure.       At the end of the book Hollingdale writes:     Our mind craves dreams, those magical realms, for ever present between somewhere and nowhere, which beguile us with a thraldom all their own and help keep our sense of wonder alive. And if the new 'matter-of-factness' encroaches on our brain to no other end than to make of our life a thing and not, as it longs to be, an instrument of self-transcendence, we feel distressed by our inability to dream as once we did; and all delight is gone, our life somehow diminished, which is the cause of most of the angst in the self-the knowledge that what is most human in our life is being determined not by our 'true' needs, which are divined from the centre of our being, opening like the petals of the lotus and are beyond thought, beyond intellect, 'beyond striving', but are on the contrary, determined entirely by external forces, through no choice of ours.         We are at once the victims and the beneficiaries of modern technological advances. Reality is now the new myth-making substance. We are manipulated by man-made dreams which develop artificial wants: frozen and tasteless foods, bland, homogenized lives; clich-ridden beliefs and standardized rituals; conspicuous consumption; the 'pooled self-esteem' our Western forms of nationalism make possible; mechanical gadgets; devotion to science and the 'reality-principle'; and the abandonment of any religious revelation, so that even our religious leaders and intellectuals do not use words like 'spiritual' and 'idealistic' at all freely, for they are themselves quite happy with their material comforts and the labor-saving world of gadgets and good health that goes with them, and would consider those who preached that the happiness people want should be sought for in any kind of nirvana, mystic ecstasy, theoria, transcendence, as certainly other-worldly.         What the spread of technological culture has done is to push the boundaries of the literal miracle, the 'other-world', the magical far outside the range of ordinary everyday human happiness. Miracles, our politicians tell us, do not originate in some supernatural religious state but must be realized in this world and have their basis in the familiar facts of technological progress, in communication, education, transportation, public health, etc., etc. But those who have found a source of happiness in a life of the spirit are of the opinion that there has been a retrogression in our aim for a true culture of humanity. While we are busily pouring ever-increasing intellectual efforts into improving our means, we have forgotten the ends they are intended to achieve. Do we really know what we want?    This question is more likely to be answered in the Alternative literature of protest, the theme of vagabondage, and the exploration of individual human consciousness via drugs, Zen Buddhism, Yoga, esotericism, Buddha, the Hermetic arts, alchemy, visionary experience, Tantra, hesychast methods, hypostatic union of Christ and man, and all the charismas of the spirit. Those who affirm that the real truth and source of all human joy and happiness lies wholly 'within' must try, with whatever means they can get, to break the hold of that view of life which has replaced the potentialities of the human mind with the perspective of its mechanical extensions, the extensions of transportation and social planning and mass conditioning which are now turning on the body and strangling it as the serpents did at Laocoon.         Modern society is growing infertile, devoid of a living culture, no longer productive of any personal form, an abstract, lifeless, cinematic world of machine-made interpretations about the self. It is not surprising therefore if we tell ourselves that all revelatory experience is foolishness, so much so that man sees himself increasingly as nothing but an 'energy slave' or a cipher on the face of a moral and spiritual void. And as the knowledge of his own disorientation cannot be handled within the framework of so-callednormality, he turns more and more to his brave world of machines. And through the power of his machines he acts out the uncomprehended tragedy of man's inner disruption. Yet it was the Ancient Chinese Sage, Huang Tzu, who proposed some 2500 years ago that dependence even on a simple kind of machine causes man to become uncertain of his own inner impulses; and further, the result may lead him to forget how to master his own world.         So we have learned instead how to master our machines, because machines do not serve us unless we service them, but in the process we have had to adjust our human organization to our equipment. We tend to get what the machine can best give us rather than what is most desirable.	2004-09-14
US	52783335	RRMUBDD4P9X5L	0140262881	859967900	Philosophy and Social Hope	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Pragmatism, Utilitarianism and Democracy	This is a meaningful book on Pragmatism and the American thinking of Dewey, James and visions of Emerson and Whitman. I find myself very much pragmatic and utilitarian with limitations and this book is very thought provoking.    The idea of pragmatism from Dewey, James and in Rorty, relate the idea of no absolute truths. No foundations. Truth is based on reasons; rationalism and rationalisms are only constructions of humanity. They do not convey the Platonic idea that truths represent reality, and that some truths are closer to the hierarchal arrangement of being closer to reality than others. What such truths really do is use reality as useful tools to work with, to construct ideas that conform to the desires of humanity, which relate to happiness and growth. Platonists manipulate their perceptions of reality to represent what it is not, as absolutes or ideas that attempt to get closer to such. Pragmatists and Utilitarians do not see any representations of reality in absolute forms, nor is there Plato's other eternal reality behind the world of appearances, nor is there another reality of archetypes, which the archaic man attempted to imitate or represent. None of this is truth, but justifications. And such justifications are built on customs of habit from linguistic and social constructions based on relational meanings to other ideas and objects. Truths are only difference justifications. we devise. We use reality, we do not know reality. We make reality to be what it is in the sense of definitions, social structure and language. There is no accurate knowledge, as all knowledge is based on common sense and all common sense is not from some divine or greater source, for common sense is the different sets of descriptions and re-descriptions that we use in our memory to form meaning and foundations. But the foundations are false, they are not absolute. There are no intrinsic natures or essences; there are only webs of relations that we use to describe such objects, as we will never know intrinsic nature. Truths do not represent reality but are habits of nature to describe what we see. Habits of nature to relate to others.    I can understand Allan Bloom's thoughts that relativism allows all ideas to be validated in that we must have immovable points to build on. But Rorty makes a clear distinction between irresponsible relativism and that of pluralism:    \\"Insofar as `postmodern' philosophical thinking is identified with a mindless and stupid cultural relativism - with the idea that any fool thing that calls itself culture is worthy of respect - then I have no use for such thinking. But I do not see that what I have called `philosophical pluralism' entails any such stupidity.  .  .   .  .  The difference between pluralism and cultural relativism is the difference between pragmatically justified tolerance and mindless irresponsibility.\\" P. 276    Rorty's views are also based on liberalism and leftist ideas that allow different views of thinking, recognizing that each group has their own web of relational meanings that determine their ideas and such pluralism is what is needed to overcome the intolerance of Platonic distinctions obligated to others. There are a series of essays on many thoughts from liberal democratic education, Marxism and religion, pluralism and utilitarianism in regards to religion, the social hope based on the ideals of Dewey and James pragmatism and Kuhn's ideas on paradigms, too much to write a small review on.     My only personal limitations on utilitarianism is the removal of the idea of the sacred, that is, the sacredness of nature and radical amazement and wonder that one sees in ordinary life as a divinity and holiness that renders our awe and reverence. It seems that when pluralism allows all of us to compartmentalize there is both the benefit of what can be a great democracy and equalitarian existence in all aspects including economics, which we most assuredly do not have in our world, but it's thelack of the awe, the mysterum tremendum, that is where I find a great deal lacking, which can most certainly be seen in the demystified and desacralized view of nature and the environment and lack of appreciative awe of existence.    What we see in America today is the lack of compartmentalization of ideas and the pragmatic belief that our truths are relative tools, that we must put aside our absolutes and use our common views towards peace, growth, liberty, rights and happiness together in the American dream of Richard Rorty, William James, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Walt Whitman and John Dewey. But on the contrary, we have fundamentalism, religious intolerance and absolutism of the conservatives, who are taking power, causing wars and removing liberty as we know it. Dictatorial government is soon to be, hopefully after a century or so, we will return to pragmatistic democracy and equalitarianism that will not entail our current economic slavery.	2004-09-01
US	52783335	R3K39A0BQ551OU	0837171962	140361206	Mircea Eliade and the Dialectic of the Sacred.	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Christianity & Contemporary Viewed In Hegelian Dialectics	This is a mind challenging book and worth the read. I wish it was more available. It looks like I have read only a portion of this book, as the article I have read bears the same title of `Mircea Eliade and the Dialectic of the Sacred' but is only one essay in a series of essays in another book written by Thomas J.J. Altizer along with other essays written by William Hamilton, in a book entitled, `Radical Theology and The Death of God.'     First of all, it would be advisable to have read Mircea Eliade's, The Sacred and The Profane to get an idea of what each is and its relation to history and time verses the illo tempre Eliade speaks about.     The essay (book) of Altizer is based on Hegelian dialectics. To put that briefly, Hegel devised a system of dialectics that can be summed up in three stages of reasoning:     1. The stage in which the subject spoken of is affirms, or posits itself as thesis;   2. The state of negation, limitation, antithesis, which is a necessary corollary of the previous state. Anotherwards, the affirmation negates the other.   3. The state of synthesis, a return to itself as a union of opposites (Coincidentia oppositorum), which follows the above two stages in a final coming together of those opposites whose initial opposition or contradiction occasioned its own creation.     This is equivalent to two opposites being two sides of the same coin, so it is they are the same in this respect. One must negate the other in order to synthesize with it.     In this respect Kierkegaard negates the objectivity of traditional Christianity for subjectivity, where they unify in a Christianity that is not bound to traditional symbols and historical one-time events, but a living reality in the present moment.     Altizer relates:     `In so far as faith in its Christian expression moves through the factuality of estrangement and death, it can never accept a mere negation of the profane. Nor for that matter can a faith accepting the reality of the Fall seek an unfallen sacred or a primordial moment of time. Only an actual reversal of a fallen and profane reality can lead to a final participation that transcends a primordial Beginning. Such a reversal would be consistently and radically dialectical. It would occur by means of what Hegel terms `pure negativity' or the `negation of negation', and it would move through the reality of the profane to a final or eschatological sacred that reconciles the profane with itself. Despite the fact that Buddhist logic is grounded in negation, Th.. Stcherbatsky, in his magisterial study of Buddhist logic, points out that Indian logic has never known the negation of negation. Only an acceptance of the reality of a negative or fallen reality can make possible a Coincidentia oppositorum that is a coming together of the dual reality of the sacred and the profane. It is precisely this coincidental of the opposing realms of the sacred and the profane that makes possible Christianity's celebration of the incarnation as an actual and real event, an event that has occurred and does occur in concrete time and space, and an event effecting a real transformation of the world. Faith, in this consistently dialectical sense, must oppose or negate a sacred that is an unmoving Eternity or a quiescent Totality. A sacred that annuls or transcends the reality of the profane can never become incarnate in a fallen form, and thus it could never affect or transform the given or immediate reality of a fallen world. Only a sacred that negates its own unfallen or primordial form can become incarnate in the reality of the profane. To the extent that faith or vision knows an eternal and unmoving sacred it can never know the reality of the Incarnation.` pp. 150-151    Kierkegaard conceived of recollection as a backward repetition, as in Pagan religions, while repetition itself is a forward movement. \\"Whereas the backward movement of recollection arises from the judgment that all that truly is has been, the movement of repetition embodies the present and actual becoming of an existence which has been. Nevertheless, repetition and recollection are the same movement, only in opposite directions; for what is recollected has been, is repeated backwards, whereas repetition properly so called is recollected forwards..\\" P. 151.    `When the incarnation is understood as a descent into the concrete, or as a movement from a primordial and unfallen sacred to an actually fallen profane, then it cannot be conceived as not affecting a supposedly eternal Godhead, or as being a static or unchanging extension of the God who is the transcendence of Being. Nor for that matter can an understanding of the Incarnation as a process of repetition allow the Incarnation to be confined to a once and for all event of the past. A theology which remains bound to the language and imagery of the New Testament must refuse the very thesis that the Incarnation is a forward movement or process.' Pp., 153-154    So, if Christianity tries to recollect back to the original paradise and creation and God, then it becomes static in denying itself as as foward movement of renewal and rebirth. But if it is to go forward in a dynamic continuing renewal and transformation, then it denys the original primordial as being the sacred to return to.     So it stands, that God is dead in that we have left the primordial and must return to such to restore. Or in opposition, that God is dead and we must move forward in a renewal in the death of God in the rebirth to acheive what his death has accomplished; the transformation of humanity.	2004-08-24
US	52783335	R3L6BCLD6I3O6H	3856305076	977323871	Friedrich Nietzsche: Beyond the Values of His Time	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Best Bio on Nietzsche	I've read Kaufman's and Heidegger's not Salome's early experiential account, yes to some of Jasper's bio and this one by Liliane Frey-Rohn stands out as favorite. It's not Kaufman's philosophical approach, nor Jaspers, nor is it Heidegger's 'own' work, but this time a psychological approach.    The book presents Nietzsche in historical and chronological order, from his first book to his last and the various letters, dithyrambs, poems in between and then relates his ideas to his psychological - mental - perceptions, condition and views. The author continually is piecing the ideas with his nature, history and circumstances and ultimately, his last 11 years of insanity and that which led up to it.    The book contains the philosophical perceptions on Nietzsche's ideas and state of mind relations, but not in an overwhelming analysis, nor does it go on philosophical tangents of explanatory notes that detract from the overall picture, the whole, as many others do    So here is a book not only on the philosophy of Nietzsche in a chronological order, but it's coming from the mind of a close collaborator of Carl Jung and written in Jungian analysis. I can't think of a better book to be introduced to Nietzsche. Of course to  go into depth to fully comprehend all of Nietzsche's  thoughts, you must read him for that, but for a summary of his thoughts and meanings this is a great book.	2004-08-22
US	52783335	R20HGGZB616KAX	1570628556	651994206	A Theory of Everything: An Integral Vision for Business, Politics, Science and Spirituality	Books	5	11	16	N	N	A Monumental & Impressive Model to View the World	Reading books makes a person grow, either horizontally or vertically. In this case both, like hiking and finding this amazing overlook of multiple mountain ranges and a soft cool breeze to match.    Wilber begins his book stating the benefits of evolutionary psychology over postmodern deconstruction psychology. Look, I love postmodern ideas and it's trashing of all fundamentals, but hey, that only leaves life in existential despair, and into what? So Wilber makes way for yet another model. And throughout his book he comes right out and tells the reader that this model and all the others he quotes and expounds on are not beyond deconstruction, nor are any considered absolute, \\"if you can come up with a better model, then you do so,\\" and that this model too will in future be put aside for a better one.    Now I have been using a model for year from James Fowler's book on The Stages of Faith and M. Scott Peck's thoughts on that as well. But here is a all 4 quadrant, all level version from the model Wilber and Beck, Cowan and many others have produced, as in the Spiral Dynamics.    Beige = Archaic, Instinctual.   Purple = Magical, Animistic  Red = Power Gods, Feudal.   Blue = Mythic Order, Fundamental, Conformity, Conservative  Orange = Scientific Achievement, Rational thinkers, Technology.  Green = The Sensitive Self, Plural Relativists.  Yellow = Integrative, All levels, fully whole are contained.  Turquoise = Holistic.     Then there is egocentricity and preconventional, ethnocentricity and conventional and worldcentricity and postconventional. For instance the higher green can fight blue ethnocentricity but contain red's egocentricity and subsequent narcissism.    And in this all are 4 quadrants,     Upper Left = Interior - I - Self and consciousness, self subjectivity  Lower Left = Interior - We - Culture and worldview, collective subjectivity  Upper Right = Exterior - It - Brain and organism, Empirical atomism  Lower Right = Exterior - Its - Social systems, Empirical sociology.    Any one of the above 4 quadrants alone in a viewpoint amounts to reductionism. Integration is what is needed in all areas of the real world.    If anything this book really did is enable me with more tolerance as each level must remain whole while inside the higher level. So no level should look at others inferior but recognize they must occur to go to a higher level or one can not go there. They also remain as a holarchy that is a full atom is in a molecule, a full molecule is in a cell, a full cell is in a organism and so forth.    What is explained is our current world situation, as the danger of the reds and blues with orange technology, the relativism of the greens in their unknowing suicidal attempt to blot out all lower levels. His analogy of political views based on this paradigm is for me an extremely meaningful model to perceive the world's political situation.  I don't look at blacks verses whites, Muslims verses Christians, Fundamentalists verses Liberals, but rather blue with orange technology, green with purple and red level within them and so forth.	2004-08-20
US	52783335	R260XATH3FJ2K8	0943358485	974073647	Man's Quest For God	Books	5	38	41	N	N	Mysticism and Monotheism	Heschel's interpretation of Judaism in his Between God and Man, is that of MYSTICISM AND MONOTHEISM, the ineffable and unexplainable, the allusiveness that can only point us to the inner certainty of God. <br /> <br />Heschel is a substantial writer and skilled in both analogy and description. And ultimately, in defining Jewish wisdom in words, is that which cannot be as defined in words as calculable and systematic, but rather as a direction to be pointed. And this is what you will find in most non-fundamental wisdom. It is here that expressions defining God as indefinable are so well conveyed. The SUBLIME, the MYSTERY, wonder, awe, reverence, the idea of the holy and that of revelation are the spontaneous creative events verses that of causal processes. <br /> <br />Here `modern man fell into the trap of believing that everything can be explained, that reality is a simple affair which has only to be organized in order to be mastered. All enigmas can be solved, and all wonder is nothing but the effect of novelty upon ignorance.' P. 40 Such dogmatic fallacies can be found in both science and religion.  `The deeper we search the nearer we arrive at knowing that we do not know. The mystery of divinity, `it is a dimension off all existence and may be experienced everywhere and at all times. This sense of the ineffable perceives is something objective, which cannot be conceived by the mind nor captured by imagination or feeling, something real, which by its very essence, is beyond the reach of thought and feeling. What we are primarily aware of is not our self, our inner mood, but a transubjective situation, in regard to which our ability fails. Subjective is the manner, not the matter of our perception. What we perceive is objective in the sense of being independent of and corresponding to our perception. Our radical amazement reasons to the mystery, but does not produce it. You and I have not invented the grandeur of the sky nor endowed man with the mystery of birth and death. We do not create the ineffable, we encounter it. P. 47 <br /> <br />Now what underlies this ineffable and non-explanatory presence or allusive presence of divinity beyond discursive analysis, is what Judaism consists of, monotheism, this being an absolute purpose and a CERTAINTY, the certainty of God that finds all other expression.  <br /> <br />`God is a mystery but the mystery is not God. He is a revealer of mystery. The certainty that there is meaning beyond the mystery is the reason fore ultimate rejoicing. P. 49 The certainty of the realness of God does not come about as a corollary of logical premises, as a leap from the realm of logic to the realm of ontology, from an assumption to a fact. It is on the contrary, a transition form an immediate apprehension to a thought form a preconceptual awareness to a definite assurance, from being overwhelmed by the presence of God to an awareness of His existence. What we attempt to do in the act of reflection is to raise that preconceptual awareness to the level of understanding. P. 67 `To meet Him is to come upon an inner certainty.' P. 80 <br /> <br />Regarding Jewish LAWS, Heschel writes that such laws are not meant as a yoke, nor repressive to desires, nor a straight jacket of rituals, but out of love, from an internal center, the heart, where the soul, the internal motivation of love, must be in harmony with the law <br /> <br />Laws are emphasized not as mechanical duties but rather as artistic acts, as in music one must be what he plays. The goal is to find access to the sacred deed. To do a mitzvah is one thing; to partake of its inspiration another. P. 166 <br /> <br />'The law is a cry for creativity, not mechanical processes, nor technicalities. The law is only valid with the motivation of the heart behind it. It is both the action and the inspiration behind the action. The laws and traditions are self-defeating without faith and heart motivation. Judaism is more than law, it is purity of the heart,it is faith and love of God. God is called to re-create the world in his likeness. The law must never be idolized. Rules are only generalizations. Judaism is not legalism. Just as proclaimed truths - kerygma, are worthless without the deeper allusive essence - dogma, so is Halakhah - the definite rational instructions worthless without the Agadah - the allusive, non-discursive and immeasurable. The law must have both or its way is perverted.  <br /> <br />`It supplies the weapons, it points the way; the fighting is left to the soul of man.' 'Obedience to the letter of the law regulates our daily living, but such obedience must not stultify the spontaneity of our inner life. P. 176 <br /> <br />`The true goal for man is to be what he does.' P. 164. `Sacred deeds are designed to make living compatible with our sense of the ineffable. The mitzvot are forms of expressing in deeds the appreciation of the ineffable. P. 182 The soul grows by noble deeds. The soul is illumined by sacred acts. P. 177 The life of the spirit too needs concrete actions for its actualization.' P. 177  <br /> <br />And the PSYCHOLOGY of Judaism: <br />`We must not indulge in self-scrutinization; we must not concentrate upon the problem of egocentricity. The way to purify the self is to avoid dwelling upon the self and to concentrate upon the task. Any religious or ethical teaching that places the main emphasis upon the virtues of inwardness such as faith and the purity of motivation must come to grief. If faith were the only standard, the effort of man would be doomed to failure. Indeed, the awareness of the weakness of the heart, the unreliability of human inwardness may perhaps have been one of the reasons that compelled Judaism to take recourse to actions instead of relying upon inward devotion.' P. 189 There is power in the deed which purifies desires. It is the act, life itself that educates the will. The good motive comes into being while doing the good. P. 190 <br /> <br />Heschel is worth all the time invested in his writings. <br />	2004-08-17
US	52783335	R3A2Q217WOM9WQ	0226458083	89443239	The Structure of Scientific Revolutions	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Human Paradigms and Scientific Truth	A significant book of thought, on science that takes in the psychology of man, the history of scientific thought and the philosophy of human perception and its subsequent paradigms or `disciplinary matrix.' There is no doubt in my mind that this book goes way beyond the herd mentality so prevalent today. Here Kuhn ventures outside the box of paradigms and models of structure relating their creation being from the prior destruction of formal paradigm models as opposed to the inaccurate textbook presentations of so-called progress of scientific truths historically growing in accumulative knowledge to higher and more advanced theories, unlike the crises that occurs in the emergence of new theories and new meanings of the same words. While science must work from paradigms they also must be recognized with the ability to go outside the box. Application restrictions forbids the scientist to relay upon a theory in his own research whenever that research enters an area or seeks a degree of precision for which past practice offers no precedent.<br /><br />Shifts in the scientific community's conception of legitimate problems even shift, as in the predecessors of Newton to Einstein's quantum mechanics reversal of the methodological prohibition that originated in the chemical revolution of Chemists.<br /><br />The point being the individual scientist takes a paradigm for granted, the creative scientist is limited and to a large extent rigid, attached to his or her model., on object for replication, questions and answers must fit in with the preexisting model with the illusion of alternative models as non-existent.<br /><br />Finding facts that agree or fit in with the preexisting paradigm. New science is working from predetermined models failing to create other models to build from. Building instruments based on rules, laws from existing paradigms that find facts to support such. When too many anomalies become apparent, there are always those that devise numerous articulations and ad hoc modifications in order to eliminate conflict, but when this does not suffice then a crisis occurs and this leads to a scientific revolution where a paradigm is destroyed and a new one created. All crisis begin with the blurring of a paradigm and the consequent loosening of the rules for normal research.<br /><br />There is also the problem of finding an objective language, which itself is an impossibility, although Kuhn suggests that perhaps one day their may be such. (Ludwig Wittgenstein). Words also will change meanings and applications when applied to other theories, such as the discovery of oxygen, which was not `discovered,' but a long process of conceptual assimilation and a change in paradigm.<br /><br />There is also the specializations and communities within the Scientific communities that perceive same problems under different views where meanings vary in vocabulary, questions and conclusions.<br /><br />Revolutions required perceptional transformations, the goggles must be fitted with inverting lenses. Kuhn relates the analogy the `Gestalt Switch, ' where multiple perspectives can be seen from the same set of blueprints. The same image can be seen in different ways. And this reinterpretation in a gestalt switch is applied to the switching of scientific paradigms, an occurrence that usually takes place overnight in a sudden flash of perception change, as with all fields of paradigm switch.<br /><br />In relation to all this, Kuhn brings out Newton's law of Principia, Maxwell's equations, Einstein's relativity of curved space, Franklin's Leyden Jar,  Ptolemaic and Copernicus Newton's Principia, Dalton's atomic theory, all in relation to paradigms in the scientific community and their subsequent discarding and creating new models to question and perceive by with much more than the space of this review will permit.<br /><br />An essential book to read, known as a landmark book and one of the hundred most influential books since the second world war by the Times Literary Supplement.	2004-08-16
US	52783335	R2FLU4CK44METJ	068483331X	859441980	Between God and Man: An Interpretation of Judaism	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	Mysticism and Monotheism	Heschel's interpretation of Judaism is that of MYSTICISM AND MONOTHEISM, the ineffable and unexplainable, the allusiveness that can only point us to the inner certainty of God. <br /> <br />Heschel is a substantial writer and skilled in both analogy and description. And ultimately, in defining Jewish wisdom in words, is that which cannot be as defined in words as calculable and systematic, but rather as a direction to be pointed. And this is what you will find in most non-fundamental wisdom. It is here that expressions defining God as indefinable are so well conveyed. The SUBLIME, the MYSTERY, wonder, awe, reverence, the idea of the holy and that of revelation are the spontaneous creative events verses that of causal processes. <br /> <br />Here `modern man fell into the trap of believing that everything can be explained, that reality is a simple affair which has only to be organized in order to be mastered. All enigmas can be solved, and all wonder is nothing but the effect of novelty upon ignorance.' P. 40 Such dogmatic fallacies can be found in both science and religion.  `The deeper we search the nearer we arrive at knowing that we do not know. The mystery of divinity, `it is a dimension off all existence and may be experienced everywhere and at all times. This sense of the ineffable perceives is something objective, which cannot be conceived by the mind nor captured by imagination or feeling, something real, which by its very essence, is beyond the reach of thought and feeling. What we are primarily aware of is not our self, our inner mood, but a transubjective situation, in regard to which our ability fails. Subjective is the manner, not the matter of our perception. What we perceive is objective in the sense of being independent of and corresponding to our perception. Our radical amazement reasons to the mystery, but does not produce it. You and I have not invented the grandeur of the sky nor endowed man with the mystery of birth and death. We do not create the ineffable, we encounter it. P. 47 <br /> <br />Now what underlies this ineffable and non-explanatory presence or allusive presence of divinity beyond discursive analysis, is what Judaism consists of, monotheism, this being an absolute purpose and a CERTAINTY, the certainty of God that finds all other expression.  <br /> <br />`God is a mystery but the mystery is not God. He is a revealer of mystery. The certainty that there is meaning beyond the mystery is the reason fore ultimate rejoicing. P. 49 The certainty of the realness of God does not come about as a corollary of logical premises, as a leap from the realm of logic to the realm of ontology, from an assumption to a fact. It is on the contrary, a transition form an immediate apprehension to a thought form a preconceptual awareness to a definite assurance, from being overwhelmed by the presence of God to an awareness of His existence. What we attempt to do in the act of reflection is to raise that preconceptual awareness to the level of understanding. P. 67 `To meet Him is to come upon an inner certainty.' P. 80 <br /> <br />Regarding Jewish LAWS, Heschel writes that such laws are not meant as a yoke, nor repressive to desires, nor a straight jacket of rituals, but out of love, from an internal center, the heart, where the soul, the internal motivation of love, must be in harmony with the law <br /> <br />Laws are emphasized not as mechanical duties but rather as artistic acts, as in music one must be what he plays. The goal is to find access to the sacred deed. To do a mitzvah is one thing; to partake of its inspiration another. P. 166 <br /> <br />The law is a cry for creativity, not mechanical processes, nor technicalities. The law is only valid with the motivation of the heart behind it. It is both the action and the inspiration behind the action. The laws and traditions are self-defeating without faith and heart motivation. Judaism is more than law, it is purity of the heart, it is faith and love of God.God is called to re-create the world in his likeness. The law must never be idolized. Rules are only generalizations. Judaism is not legalism. Just as proclaimed truths - kerygma, are worthless without the deeper allusive essence - dogma, so is Halakhah - the definite rational instructions worthless without the Agadah - the allusive, non-discursive and immeasurable. The law must have both or its way is perverted.   <br /> <br />`It supplies the weapons, it points the way; the fighting is left to the soul of man.' 'Obedience to the letter of the law regulates our daily living, but such obedience must not stultify the spontaneity of our inner life. P. 176 <br /> <br />`The true goal for man is to be what he does.' P. 164. `Sacred deeds are designed to make living compatible with our sense of the ineffable. The mitzvot are forms of expressing in deeds the appreciation of the ineffable. P. 182 The soul grows by noble deeds. The soul is illumined by sacred acts. P. 177 <br /> <br />'To reduce Judaism to halakhah - defined actions - is to dim its light, to pervert its essence and to kill its spirit. . . . to reduce it to agadah - inward purity only - is to blot out its light, to dissolve its essence and to destroy its reality. Indeed, the surest way to forfeit agadah is to abolish halakhah. They can only survive in symbiosis. The life of the spirit too needs concrete actions for its actualization.' P. 177  <br /> <br />Heschel outlines the tension between regularity and spontaneity, how both must be polarized. <br /> <br />`The way to kavvanah is through the deed; the way of faith is a way of living. Halakhah and agadah are correlated; halakhah is the string, agadah is the bow. When the string is tight and the bow will evoke the melody.' `Deeds not only follow intention; they also engender kavvanah.' P. 180 <br /> <br />And the PSYCHOLOGY of Judaism: <br /> <br />`We must not indulge in self-scrutinization; we must not concentrate upon the problem of egocentricity. The way to purify the self is to avoid dwelling upon the self and to concentrate upon the task. Any religious or ethical teaching that places the main emphasis upon the virtues of inwardness such as faith and the purity of motivation must come to grief. If faith were the only standard, the effort of man would be doomed to failure. Indeed, the awareness of the weakness of the heart, the unreliability of human inwardness may perhaps have been one of the reasons that compelled Judaism to take recourse to actions instead of relying upon inward devotion.' P. 189 There is power in the deed purifies desires. It is the act, life itself that educates the will. The good motive comes into being while doing the good. P. 190 <br /> <br />This review is far from detailed, as their is much more not mentioned, you'll have to read the book for that. However I think this review does reveals somewhat of the religious dimension and insight of the ineffable Heschel lays out, the ideas beyond conceptualization with monotheism at its center. I recommend this book for anyone, the religious - of all persuasions, the non-religious, and/or anyone who wishes to attempt to perceive the idea of the sacred within the de-mystified and rational world we live in. Heschel is worth all the time invested in his writings.	2004-08-15
US	52783335	R1RKEICY2L6GDF	0803257937	543157859	My People the Sioux (Bison Book)	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Indian Freedom Into White Man's Utilitarianism	.  I found this book being both an honest account and a more accurate description of the Indian-American experience, as it comes from a man who was both Indian and personally lived through the trials and hardships through the Sioux tribe.     What is so interesting about the story is the nave attribute of Luther Standing Bear and his honest, open and yet hold fast integrity. His trusting nature was so evident through out the story and yet he did not lack any intelligence and understanding. Of course those Indians with such nature were taken advantage of, and yet Luther Standing Bear remains always optimistic. There were many hardships, as in the loss of his free world and native life to a utilitarian white man's world of hustle and capitalism.     First there was much land taken and much sold with fraudulent treaties with government subsidiaries supplied, but it was the White's destruction of natural resources, the loss of the Buffalo and available food that caused the Indian's independence to wain and turn to the White man's society. This in turn set them up for what came next:    \\"Then like a thunderbolt from a clear sky came on order from the Interior Department that all rations and annuity goods which had been issued to all able-bodied Indians were to be cut off unless the Indians were willing to work for them.\\"     This both took many Indians away from their homes to labor and in Luther Standing Bear's case, three jobs he took to support himself. The John Stuart Mill version of democracy, it's utilitarian enforcement of productivity is now forced on the Indian culture, a people whose land and free paced life was removed from them.    Luther relates how many whites took advantage of the non-English speaking Indians signing fraudulent land selling agreements, including a few unscrupulous Indians as Spotted Tail, who did the selling. There was also mentioned his experience of observing those Indians who were promised to be brought to Washington to speak to the government, but were being unknowingly used as city stop side shows, with tickets sales to the white men's advantage.    There were also the innocent killing of many Indians, the force of White man's culture, including the clothes, the cutting of hair, the religious teachings, the restriction against using his native tongue, and yet in Luther Standing Bear considered it bravery and wisdom to adopt the white man's ways and learn as much as he can to prove to the world that the Indians were both capable and good at living and producing just as the white men. His attendance at the Carlyle School, his relations and actions towards those in charge were so admirable.     The was also the death of two of his children, the event of a terrible train crash, events that would leave a horrendous impact on any person, and this man, Luther Standing Bear, maintains a strength of internal character that is most impeccable of a high and honorable nature. Not many persons would have remained so, and there is no complaining from him here, no venting, only stating his objective observances of both positive and negative occurrences and his subjective opinions written in such fair assessments.    Luther also relates how his people missed a few chances to better their predicament with the government as in Buffalo Bill's attempt to speak to the president in behalf of them and another occurrence where an agent influenced many to protect his own monetary interests.     Between Luther and his father, they understood the white man's invasion of the Indian world was \\"thick\\" and it was in wisdom to adopt their ways in order to survive. The major drawback from all this was the adoption also meant assimilation, as the dress, the religion and the language of the Indian was discouraged by the white man to be beneath his culture as inferior.     And yet all of the above was not meant as partisan to negativity, but rather, Luther was always optimistic, anxious to please his instructors and employers, admirable in is his constant desire to please the people he worked with, Captain Pratt in the Carlyle School, his employer at the Department Store, Buffalo Bill and many others. And for this he was very well liked, including by myself.	2004-08-09
US	52783335	R3SJX2JL5X5GLK	0553210092	916048954	The Scarlet Letter (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Puritanism Runs Amok Yesterday & Today in Modern Society	.  I enjoyed this book very much. And it is not outdated for our day especially since fundamentalism is so overwhelming modern civilization subordinating flexibility and lowering tolerance to a zero level. It is here that a story that takes place in the early American Puritan culture is surprisingly not far from today's anti-sexually neurotic society. While the Puritans appear far harsher, it is only because the fundamentalists were in control. It is no different today, except they are not the majority, not yet anyway, but are growing in vast proportion as can be seen in the censorship of media, music, advertising and entertainment.     And so this story would have been revolutionary during the puritan era, it is a valuable lesson and honest when pertaining to the human animal, something which we all are, even if we cease to admit it in our Christian or religious pietism.    It is here that a Hester Prynne, apparently a \\"liberal,\\" had relations with a man and subsequent illegitimate child and refuses to tell the court who the father is. And for this she is labeled as an outcast and sinner. She is publicly humiliated and for the remainder of her life must wear a scarlet letter on her garment that identifies herself as an outcast. And you know people, the jealous woman who love to see others humiliated, the ignorant that may not even understand the nature of the so-called crime but are quick to follow the herd mentality.    In the meantime, her prior husband, Roger Chillingworth, is seeking revenge to the father of her child, who turns out to be the most well respected man of the Puritan town, the ever so idolized and admired preacher himself, Arthur Dimsdale. But Hester maintains complete dignity through out the entire novel. And it is only in the end that the poor mentally distraught hypocrite preacher finally admits his Christian sin, this due to the internal guilt and hypocrisy that Christian insecurity so often does, as it almost always debilitates a person's courage to be with self-beating analysis and repression from externally determined codes.    And today, there it is, watch the news programs and you will see more than one Hester Prynne who will receive just as bad treatment, if not worse. Currently there are two women who had sex with minors, one being jailed, her beau still loves her and is waiting for her, the other, a young 23 year old, about to be punished severely I'm sure.    I can just imagine the severe beating other societies, such as the intellectuals of the ancient Athenian Greek culture, would receive in our modern day Augustinian society. Puritanism lives in the right wing conservative morality that is permeating our present culture. Please Mr. Dimsdale right wing conservatives, Mr. & Mrs. Evangelical Christians, let go, admit your hypocrisy, cease judging others, and let's evolve to higher levels of human consciousness, not regress.	2004-08-06
US	52783335	R1ODVQXJM0DPVX	0140135219	592862907	The Greeks (Penguin History)	Books	5	9	11	N	Y	The Greek Polis & Democracy	.  What a wonderful book on the ancient Greeks! Very informative and highly interesting. After reading some of the plays of Aristophanes, Euripides, Sophocles, Aeschylus and some of the Socratic dialogues of Plato, some modern books, including The Trial of Socrates, by L.F. Stone, I am starting to get a feel for ancient Athens and Greece. Add this to some of Nietzsche's thoughts and arguments against Socrates and for Greek tragedy and there is a great and inspiring culture and way of life to be admired greatly.    H. D. F. Kitto's book, The Greeks is a great history book and an introduction to the Greek character, way of thinking, lifestyle, the art forms of comedy and tradedy, the Greek abitlity to accept fate of suffering, injustice and death, and yet see the divinity of this human life, fully living this life, to know thyself without excess. Also, how the political democracy, the polis is so intertwined and bound in and through out the Athenian culture, and through out Greece.    Now it's the polis, (city-state) the government of the people that truly fascinates me and I find it an amazing concept and this is what was known as democracy and is so far from what we have in our modern day. The polis was more than a political party, it was a community, both religiously (non-dogmatic religion, and this is very significant) and also a social and ethical entity with a high degree of flexibility and the ability to reverse previous decisions that were deemed to be faulty, such as the outcome of the city of Mitylene. All adult Athenian citizens were to partake in the polis and had an open voice in contribution. In turn they were listened to and had an active participation. The rich, the poor, the tradesman, the farmer, the aristocrat, all co-mingled and were completely aware to each other's functions, there was far less ignorance here as to what really was occurring - no secrecy between governmental departments as we have in modern day. There were no professionals, all were amateurs, no representatives, all represented themselves, no high-paid attorneys, all defended themselves, judged themselves and were balanced from being partisan by having such a commingled segment of society in active participation. It was truly an incredible governing system. This was a living community. And in this respect, it brings to mind a phenomenon defined  as `community' by M. Scott Peck in his book, A Different Drum. It was truly a remarkable system that has never been repeated.     In turn the Greeks thinking consisted of very weighty matters with responsibility and this can be seen reflected in both the Greek tragedies and comedies. Some have written such thinking off as fatalism, but this is not the case, as such fatal destinies as in the oracles are coupled with the individual's freedom to choose within and bring about beauty and justice inside the limits of human existence. And this can be seen in the weaknesses and limitations of the gods themselves. For the Greek religion was far removed from the dogmatisms found in the monotheism of Western civilization. Symbolism and religiosity was thriving unlike the dead arid rationalism that permeates both secular and religious thinking of our day.    Now there are certainly downsides to the polis, and the Greek way of life as in the existence of slavery, in women's limited rights and in an Athenian league that policed the other islands and cities, in which such a small review does not permit me the space to relate on in what you will find in Kitto's book who goes into an excellent analysis of this and is a superb book to read.     Ultimately, it was when the polis got too large, too corporate and starting policing the other states to conform to the Athenian League in order to receive protection against the Persians. When Sparta requested the end of an embargo against them trading with Megara, Athens refused, so Sparta attacked, starting with the city of Thebes. And after two oligarchy take-overs, the weakened restored democracy of the fourth century developed into a lethargic disinterest in the polis, the Athenians interested in other things. Here the trust in a professional speech writer, Philip, the king of Macedonia, against the advice of the Athenian Demosthenes brought on his successor, Alexander the Great and the end of Greek freedom. Clearly, there is a modern day parallel in the U.S.  However, it was with the invent of professionalism, sophism and individualism toward the cosmopolis rather than the polis along with the specialization of military tatics which favored the Athens polis taxing the others. This requried the professional over the amature and the end of the polis.    \\"To attend to that business of the polis was not only a duty which a man owed to the polis: it was an absorbing interest too. It was part of the complete life. This is the reason why the Athenian never employed the professional administrator or judge if he could possibly help it. The polis was a kind of super-family, and family life means taking a direct part in family affairs and family counsels. The attitude to the polis explains, too, why the Greek never, as we say, \\"invented\\" representative government. Why should he \\"invent\\" something which most Greeks struggled to abolish, namely being governed by someone else.\\" p. 129	2004-08-06
US	52783335	RT079M4DQGA8K	0192839535	237604895	Phaedo (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Socrates & The Immortality of The Soul	.<br />What happens at death? Is the soul immortal? Why does the philosopher seek death but avoid suicide? What is so attractive about death to Socrates?<br /><br />This is a masterpiece of a book. While Socrates does not prove the immortality of the soul, his arguments for such, as in the \\"law of opposites,\\" the \\"theory of recollection\\" and the combination of the two, make way for a very interesting and mind enhancing read and is a hell of lot more valid, intelligible and religiously inclusive than any of the biblical literalist's security hold in fallacious illusion, or was Socrates and Plato infallibly inspired? Was Homer infallibly inspired? Of course not. In turn, Socrates is counter-argued with the \\"theory of attunement\\" and subsequently argues back for the immortality of the soul.<br /><br />His thoughts which entail the body as the inhibitor of obtaining true wisdom, that philosophy aids a man to go beyond his body, so that at death he can be released from the body and use his wisdom to achieve a higher realm of true wisdom, as the body acts as a place of desires that prevents men from perceiving the world of ideas apart from the world of appearances. The death of the body is the release of the soul and the condition of the soul, either that controlled by desires or that of philosophy that has brought it to a higher realm, will determine where the soul travels to after death.<br /><br />Socrates further gives us a description of the round, spherical earth. This exposes the fallacy of biblical literalists who attempt to prove biblical divinity by quoting Job 40:22 and Isaiah for the spherical earth, or does that make Socrates inspired? His further description of the earth's hollows by water and the place called Tartarus brings us to the identical words of St. Paul, who certainly was influenced by many non-Christian teachings, which permeated his entire belief system. Also Socrates gets Eastern in the reincarnation of the soul back to the world of desires, including that of animals and insects, which makes this book a fascinating read to say the least. This book is a gem and great masterpiece to contemplate on. I love Plato  - and Socrates too.	2004-08-05
US	52783335	R2KGU9VX7XPEX1	0393315703	194483165	The Blind Watchmaker: Why the Evidence of Evolution Reveals a Universe without Design (Reissued in 2006 and 1996)	Books	5	23	28	N	N	Meaningful Biology Explained; Remainder Left For Physicists	This is a wonderful book. A universe that has been designed? A designer of the universe? These are loaded questions with no absolute answers which Dawkins does not answer. What Dawkins does explain, is biology, not physics, and suceeds in giving an excellent account on Darwinism; the construction of and the clarification of the many misconstrued definitions of various elements.    Dawkins writes on page 15: \\"I am a biologist. I take the facts of physics . . for granted. The biologist tries to explain the workings, and the coming into existence of complex things, in terms of simpler things. He can regard his task done when he has arrived at entities so simple that they can safely be handed over to the physicists.\\"    And it is here, with the physicists, where the uncertain, non-Newtonian, quantum physics come to play. The physicist then relates his or her findings in both the quantum and teleological levels, which in turn does not usually rule out both design and intelligence. - See Paul Davies, The Mind of God.    As a biologist, Dawkin's creator of complex organisms is a combination of random mutations and nonrandom natural selection for the purpose of DNA, this being the sole determiner of the outcome of the small mutational changes. Yet unlike a designer or grand creator, natural selection has no final outcome or purpose in mind, it simply decides out of an existing instructional software program, no author acknowledged.     \\"Natural selection is all about the differential success of rival DNA in getting itself transmitted vertically (in reproduction) in the species archives. Rival DNA means alternative contents of particular addresses in the chromosomes of the species . . . the criterion for their success is their sideways or horizontal transmission (the genes affects on the body)\\" p. 122     And although without teleology, this natural selection is a non-random process, it chooses. Mutations are what is random, natural selection is not. Natural selection is what determines which mutation to discard and which to retain. So the question always remains as to why, who or what programs or instructs this natural selection to select the way it does?    An important element of Darwinism is that single step selection is improbable of ever building complex life forms. Each selection can only consist in small jumps, building on previous natural selections. It is only with cumulative selection, which builds itself from pre-existing forms that this does so. It is a slow, gradual, methodical process consisting of small jumps.      \\"If the mutational jump we are considering is a very large one, the number of possible destinations of that jump is astronomically large. And because the number of ways of being dead is so much greater than the number of different ways of being alive, the chances are very high that a big random jump in genetic space will end in death. Even a small random jump in genetic space is pretty likely to end in death. But the smaller the jump the less likely death is, and the more likely it is that the jump will result in improvement.\\" P. 73    I found a significant point that of the commonly misconstrued idea of Darwinism and saltation. Saltation is not Darwinism. Saltation consists of macromutations. And macromutations. are almost always negative mutations away from evolutionary advancement. They are equivalent to moving a microscope lens a large distance, which always distorts the focus, while slow, gradual, small mutations, one at a time, each a little improvement, that is the only way evolution occurs. A complex eye, for instance, develops this slow methodical way. Evolution always occurs gradually and small as the extensions of already complex forms mutated, not the miraculous sudden arrival of complex forms from nothing. Dawkins compares this to the sudden creation of a Boeing 747 out of thin air (which is precisely what the creationists endorse) to that of a DC8 becoming a stretched DC8, which is simply addingon what has already exists within the genetic code. In turn, each jump is very small and gradual.    The idea of punctuationism in Darwinism is not about macromutations, but gradual changes which contains periods of stasis or non/slower-growth, in either constant or variable rates, but the main point is it is always gradual and from already existing forms. Darwin states this emphatically. There are no miraculous additions.     On page 249, Dawkins writes: \\"The whole point of the theory of evolution by natural selection was that it provided a non-miraculous account of the existence of  complex adaptations. For what it is worth, it is also the whole point of this book. For Darwin, any evolution that had to be helped over the jumps by God was not evolution at all. It made a nonsense of the central point of evolution.\\"     Creationists like to point out the gaps in fossil records. However, they are the result, not of a sudden divine creation, nor a sudden evolutionary event, but rather of a migrational event. This is where a portion of a species, for various reasons, relocates, now separated by geographical boundaries. Mutation and natural selection then occurs to the point of a new race-then new species where reproduction then becomes biologically contained within the new species, as in all groups of species. When the geographical boundary is opened up, due to various reasons, the new species, due to similar survival competitive needs, may very well extinct the original species. Now the fossil records only show records of two fully developed species, the later evolved from the former, with no gradual changes with a sudden incredibly large gap in the fossil records. And yet this gap is not an evolutionary one, but from a migrational event, all consistent with Darwin's gradual and cumulative natural selection.    If it is not a creator that designed life, but rather DNA molecules which came from primordial soup or minerals, then how did they become about? Dawkins relates the mineral theory, which is certainly plausable, but why does natural selection select as it does in the first place? - towards survival? Were do the self-replicators and subsequent DNA molecules come from? In the single-step crystallization of clay and subsequent infection of other water sources, where did this clay and mixture of supersaturated sodium and chloride ions and RNA or similiar molcules come from in the first place? The earth from the sun from a black hole from a mother universe from a big bang? Then where did any matter, any energy, come from? You can keep going forever; there are no axioms you will come to, never, and there is no end to such circular rationalism. There will never be absolute answers to this. Human life will always remain a mystery, yet we cannot simply rest comfortably in creationism. We cannot ignore either Darwinism, evolution, nor the biological evidence and theories that increase our knowledge.     Also:  1. In Taxonomy, there is both the excessive branching verses the complete rejection of all ancestry, both with problems.   2. The theories such as Lamarckism and naturalism that do not fit the evidence of Darwinism and are erroneously confused with such and then firmly rejected. Darwinism is certainly much harsher than the inherited characteristics of Larmarckism.    Dawrinism does not replace religious experience, only the creation science found in religion. Science itself is not without problems, yet to ignore Darwinism in favor of an Adam and Eve or a sudden creation is to ignore the facts found from empirical observation that has succeeded in many other areas of human development. One needs now to go to the physicists.	2004-07-26
US	52783335	R3F7J90RNTCHZS	0140179070	867938089	Visions of Cody	Books	2	10	25	N	N	Spontaneous Autonomy Or Muddled Proustian?	Allan Ginsberg wrote in August 1972: \\"Some of Kerouac's writings of '52, particularly his Visions of Cody, are some of the most brilliant texts written about the psychedelic experience, especially the description of him and Neal Cassidy on Peyote.\\" AND From October 26, 1974, Ginsberg writes of himself, which he learned from Kerouac: What I mean by \\"polish the mind,\\" in that you actually do get an increasing awareness either through meditative or poetry which is another yoga, of the actual stuff, cita. And then it becomes a matter of being a very faithful secretary. You can't get everything, so you get as much as you can so you have something solid to work with. In other words, you're not doing something arbitrary, romantic, babble, bullsh*t, you're actually dealing with your mind stuff just like a painter's working with an actual landscape. Solid in the sense that it's real, it's objective, it isn't even your subjectivity any more, you're just objectively watching something move. So there's no long any question of egotism or self-expression or personal expression. All those theoretical things are like nonpracticing questions. But if you're actually practicing there's a real thing to work with, which is your thought-forms.\\"    \\"Chogyam Trungpa's principle of \\"First thought, best thought.\\" That was kerouac's basic principle for his spontaneous writing, for the same Buddhist reasons of practical inquiry into the operation of the mind. Both Kerouac and Trungpa realized, and teach, a very simple thing, which is that the first way that you flash on a thing is the unselfconscious, naked, real first-mind way, which is totally private and odd, eccentric to you, but is so direct that anybody can understand it.\\"    At first, this book was way too muddled to be of much use for myself, not receiving much out of the book and feeling that I have invested way too much time for the read, but I think that's because I've been reading it as a novel like \\"On The Road,\\" and this is morepoetry or jazz style spontaneous prose. Actually, this book is from flashing mental thoughts that are suddenly inspired within the self. This book is not some preplanned novel and storyline and not at all the robotic, mechanical mindset of the propogandized America and therefore represents a breakthrough in American thinking, thinking for the autonomous self.     I think if this book were given the publisher to publish before \\"On The Road\\" they would have agreed here on such being garbled and overly Proustian in attempt of remembrance. However, to the person looking for poetry or verbal prose over a story, and in this we have a jazz type expression of bebop in words and that makes this book a major change from the herd mentality of the masses. Hey, this is the beat rhythmic language, not Melville or Dostoevsky, but Proust and Celine.    Now to be fair, there are some good descriptions and well written feelings through out the book, but not in volume. Now don't get me wrong, I'm a Beat Hipster I would like to think, a Nietzschian, a mystical, philosophical seeker into spiritual, psychedelic and karmic realms, but maybe not the existential, Benzedine type. This book is largely garbled ramblings?? Or is just too poetic for me? I can appreciate the long \\"bird\\" Parker-like jazz of the spontaneous sentence styles, the overly descriptive emphasis on observable flashes of insight, but this story has no story line, ok-it's poetry or electic prose. So it's verbal dynamics in avant garde, not a novel then, and I guess I'm failing to fully appreciate it.     When Kerouac gets Celine-ian he works very well, but when he enters his Proustian attempt at daily observations, he becomes cloudy in tangent ramblings of private memories, non-relating to his current observations that are over detailed and nonsensical in the first place. His dope-riddled conversations and past remembrances enter back doorways in winding pathways of the red neon lights.     Now Ginsberg's introduction to the book, that I found both enjoyable and very understandable. Allen Ginsberg in a November 26th 1968 interview, from the book, Spontaneous Mind, page 132, writes on Robert Creeley and Kerouac's style of writing:     \\"Creeley was talking about how his writing was determined by the typewriter, neurasthenias of his habit; mine is determined by the physical circumstances of writing, i.e., literally that. And I got that actually from Kerouac, who was that simple and straight about it. If he had a short notebook he wrote little ditties and if he had a long . . . a big typewriter page, he wrote big long sentences like Proust.\\"    I think this agrees with Visions of Cody, in consisting of either short \\"ditties\\" or \\"long sentences like Proust,\\" all depending on the writing pad Kerouac was using at the time of writing. To me this makes a whole lot of sense in the arbitrary, elusive and haphazard style of this book.    What appears to me as the Kerouac trademark: a jazz styled prose of spontaneous expression from the \\"real,\\" non-conditioned, non-image-to-portray self, an existential life of despair in fast paced living with the rush of jazz, drink, sex, travel, under the literary and scholarly ideals of avant garde sophistication, adventure, desires, seeking new discoveries, walking places one never has been before, risk taking and traveling, all so under this empty void of utter lonely existence, devoid of substantial meanings of foundational holds and securities, walking in the desert not knowing when water will appear and if it does, if this water will sustain life or poison it. So there's this emptiness, this sadness of it all in the modern man and woman, both subterranean and beatnik.    Remember-able observances in my mind: Kerouac's staring up at a man in an apartment building watching and writing and suddenly the light goes off! He saw him!; a description of a church that failed all gothic tests into the modern brown brick suburban model of tackiness with the stupidestshrubbery to boot; Cody's (Cassidy's) hobo father walking the train tracks looking for a fix; Cody's pool hustling and challenged football playing from a jump out of the car, left on the side of the road.	2004-07-25
US	52783335	R28O8GG73S6XOS	0811208478	148567452	Journey to the End of the Night (English and French Edition)	Books	5	7	10	N	Y	Adventure, Pessimism, Sex, The Beat Generation, French Style	.<br /> This is a unique book. I found Ferdinand Celine very subjective in that I could be him, taking road trips, living on the edge, scraping the bare necessities, surviving and living inside life, suffering through it and enjoying it not as a spectator but participant.<br /><br /> You can say from this book, that is what eventually brought forth the &quot;Beat Generation,&quot; which was to occur twenty some odd years later over in the States. And you can see that Celine's style runs all throughout Jack Kerouac's writings. Although Kerouac journeyed much farther into Proustian tangents of descriptive remembrances to the point of walking down long windy alleyways. It's this style of Celine, the somewhat self mystical observances, the internal perceptions of the ordinary, with pessimism, and life from the view of a single, poorer male whose taken quite a few road trips. A few crazy experiences, a few dangerous ones, a [prostitute]or two, problem personalities and an obnoxious friend perhaps. Hey, Cassidy was way cooler than Robinson. Celine tells the Beat Generation from a French experience.<br /><br /> Now I find it's when Celine talks to himself he writes the best quotes, rather then telling the straight story. A few observations of Celine:<br /><br /> &quot; A madman's thoughts are just the usual ideas of a human being, except that they're hermetically sealed inside his head. The world never gets into his head, and that's they way he wants it. A sealed head is like a lake without an outlet, standing, stagnant.&quot; p. 357<br /><br /> &quot; There are simple lunatics and there are others, tortured by obsession with civilization. p. 361<br /><br /> &quot; What with stretching ourselves thin, with sublimating ourselves and torturing out minds, we'll end up on the far side of intelligence, the infernal side, that there's no coming back from! . . . And the fact is, what with masturbating their intelligence day and night, those ultra super wise men seem even now to have shut themselves up in the dungeons of the damned&quot;<br /><br /> &quot; I say day and night, because you know, Ferdinand, they fornicate themselves all night in their dreams . . Need I say more! . . . They dig at their minds! They dilate them! They tyrannized them! All around them there's nothing left but a foul sublimating of organic debris, a marmalade of madness and symptoms that drip and oozed from every part of them. p. 365<br /><br /> &quot; Death after all is only a matter of a few hours, a few minutes, but a pension is like poverty, it lasts a whole lifetime. Rich people are drunk in a different way, they can't understand this frenzy about security. Being rich is another kind of drunkenness, the forgetful kind. That, in fact, is the whole point of getting rich: to forget.&quot; p. 288<br /><br /> &quot; Maybe it's treacherous old age coming on, threatening the worst. Not much music left inside us for life to dance to. Our youth has gone to the ends of the earth to die in the silence of the truth. and where, I ask you, can a man escape to, when he hasn't enough madness left inside him? The truth is an endless death agony. The truth is death. You have to choose: death or lies. I've never been able to kill myself. pp. 172-173<br /><br /> &quot; Study changes a man, puts pride into him. You need it to get to the bottom of life. Without it you just skim the surface. You think you're in the know, but trifles throw you off. You dream too much. You content yourself with words instead of going deeper. That's not what you wanted. Intentions, appearances, no more. A man of character can't content himself with that. Medicine, even if I wasn't very gifted, had brought me a good deal closer to people, to animals, everything. Now all I had to do was plunge straight into the heart of things. Death is chasing you, you've got to hurry, and while you're looking you've got to eat, and keep away from wars. That's a lot of things to do. It's no picnic.&quot;. p. 207<br /><br /> &quot; There's no tyrant like the brain!&quot; p. 207<br /><br /> &quot; A room changes in a few months, even if you don't move anything. Old and rundown as things may be, they still find the strength, the Lord knows where, to get older. Everything had changed around us. Not that anything had moved, no, of course not, the things themselves had actually changed, in depth. Things are different when you go back to them, they seem to have more power to enter into us more sadly, more deeply, more gently than before, to merge with the death which is slowly, pleasantly, sneakily growing inside us, and which we train ourselves to resist a little less each day. From moment to moment, we see life languishing, shriveling inside us, and with it the things and people who may have been commonplace or precious or imposing when we last left them. Fear of the end has marked all that with its wrinkles, while we were chasing around town in search of pleasure or bread.&quot; pp. 321-322<br /><br /> &quot; Life hides everything from people. Their own noise prevents them from hearing anything else. They couldn't care less. The bigger and taller the city, the less they care. Take it from me. I've tried. It's a waste of time.&quot; p. 180<br /><br /> &quot; Why kid ourselves, people have nothing to say to one another, they all talk about their own troubles and nothing else. Each man for himself, the earth for us all. They try to unload their unhappiness on someone else when making love, they do their damnedest, but it doesn't work, they deep it all, and then they start all over again, trying to find a place for it. &quot;You're pretty Mademoiselle,&quot; they say. And life takes hold of them again until the next time, and then they try the same little gimmick, &quot;You're very pretty, Mademoiselle . . . &quot;<br /><br /> &quot; And in between they boast that they've succeeded in getting rid of their unhappiness, but everyone knows it's not true and they've simply kept it all to themselves. Since at that little game you get uglier and more repulsive as you grow older, you can't hope to hide your unhappiness, your bankruptcy, any longer. In the end your features are marked with that hideous grimace that takes twenty, thirty years or more to climb from your belly to your face. That's all a man is good for, that and no more, a grimace that he takes a whole lifetime to compose. The grimace a man would need to express his true soul without losing any of it is so heavy and complicated that he doesn't always succeed in completing it.&quot; p. 252room changes in a few months, even if you don't move anything. Old and rundown as things may be, they still find the strength, the Lord knows where, to get older. Everything had changed around us. Not that anything had moved, no, of course not, the things themselves had actually changed, in depth. Things are different when you go back to them, they seem to have more power to enter into us more sadly, more deeply, more gently than before, to merge with the death which is slowly, pleasantly, sneakily growing inside us, and which we train ourselves to resist a little less each day. From moment to moment, we see life languishing, shriveling inside us, and with it the things and people who may have been commonplace or precious or imposing when we last left them. Fear of the end has marked all that with its wrinkles, while we were chasing around town in search of pleasure or bread.&quot; pp. 321-322      &quot; Life hides everything from people. Their own noise prevents them from hearing anything else. They couldn't care less. The bigger and taller the city, the less they care. Take it from me. I've tried. It's a waste of time.&quot; p. 180      &quot; Why kid ourselves, people have nothing to say to one another, they all talk about their own troubles and nothing else. Each man for himself, the earth for us all. They try to unload their unhappiness on someone else when making love, they do their damnedest, but it doesn't work, they deep it all, and then they start all over again, trying to find a place for it. &quot;You're pretty Mademoiselle,&quot; they say. And life takes hold of them again until the next time, and then they try the same little gimmick, &quot;You're very pretty, Mademoiselle . . . &quot;      &quot; And in between they boast that they've succeeded in getting rid of their unhappiness, but everyone knows it's not true and they've simply kept it all to themselves. Since at that little game you get uglier and more repulsive as you grow older, you can't hopeto hide your unhappiness, your bankruptcy, any longer. In the end your features are marked with that hideous grimace that takes twenty, thirty years or more to climb from your belly to your face. That's all a man is good for, that and no more, a grimace that he takes a whole lifetime to compose. The grimace a man would need to express his true soul without losing any of it is so heavy and complicated that he doesn't always succeed in completing it.&quot; p. 252	2004-07-22
US	52783335	R20W245DX56L17	0812504267	851220829	Billy Budd (Tor Classics)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	As Relevant Today As It Was in 1891 - Wonderful !	.  Many lessons in the story of Billy Budd. And one is the personality of the master-in-arms, John Claggart. How does one explain in our current life persons who lash out at us for false reasons due to alterative motives? We can dispute the charges but when asked what reason we believe the reputable and well-respected person is accusing us for, what is our answer? This is where reading books, anything from philosophy, psychology, novels, biographies, etc., are so crucial in life. Crucial in all our endeavors, from clich speech walking in our neighborhood to who we vote for politically. And so, here we are accused for motives beyond surface despite the respectability and dignity that the accuser so verily has. If we and our judges are familiar with the stories of the biblical Joseph and his brothers, and I find much more so, the story of John Claggart and Billy Budd, then our referral to such stories reaps far more insight than a lengthy explanation would do.    Another point that hit hard is at the end of the novel, where Melville quotes the fictitious Newspaper's account of the Billy Budd story potraying him as the culprit and I can't help but compare it to the stories of the media and journalism that conveys the right story but subtly changes. omits and slyly maneuvers the intents and motives and in many cases, outright falsifies the information as in \\"Billy Budd conspires mutiny and thus punished appropriately.\\" But what makes matters so much worse is the believing public, \\"Billy Budd really is evil,\\" naive, built on journalism where the reading of books is long forgotten.     Were Captain Vere and the three lieutenants correct in their decision to execute Billy Budd? Should the letter of the law been obeyed? Or did this incur extenuating circumstances to pardon either the official crime or the punishment? This was a time of recent mutinies and revolts on other ships, although nothing of the sort here happened, it pervaded the spirit of strict disciplinarian measures. In addition, the outcome of the obedience and servitude of the sailors and officers would have to be weighed ahead of the life of Billy Budd, despite is false accuser and impulsive blow to counter act his failure to use speech to defend himself. Does this support a zero tolerance law code? Or should flexibility and discernment above strict adherence to each and every case be determined by the spirit and purpose of the law broke rather than then the letter of the so-called infringement?     Subjectively, Billy Budd was a good man and innocent of the death by accident he incurred to Claggart and therefore should be either found guilty of a lesser charge or given lesser punishment. Billy Budd's last words, \\"God Bless Captain Vere.\\" Objectively, Billy Budd broke a major law, killing a superior officer, which in turn, has a major influence on the entire fleet of sailors and officers and is therefore guilty and subject to hanging.	2004-07-08
US	52783335	R1CB9G1ZW2UXJR	0452011671	968238352	The Oedipus Plays of Sophocles: Oedipus the King; Oedipus at Colonus; Antigone	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Freedom Within Destiny and The Sacred	.<BR>This is a moving book that stays with you. It conveys the idea of tragedy and life's hand of cards dealt to each one of us. Paul Roche's translation of Sophocles is excellent and his introduction is wonderful to read both before and after reading the plays.<br />Here are the stories of Oedipus, the King of Thebes, respectively Oedipus the King, Oedipus at Colonus and Antigone. It all began with the words of the gods spoken through an oracle and thus the words eventually become fulfilled, for you cannot outwit, nor cheat the oracle.<br />The ultimate lesson one finds, as outlined in Roche's intro, is that each one of us are handed a destiny in life and it is in vain to attempt to do otherwise, to cease what is handed to us prior our births. However, there is the human freedom of the will and with this we make decisions and act, all so within the predetermined destiny we are given. And so it is, Oedipus is foretold that he will murder his father and marry his mother and despite all efforts to prevent this, it ultimately becomes fulfilled.<br />Now what is so beautiful and yet tragic is beauty seen in suffering, the final outcome in some ways is honorary, yet painful; ugly yet divine; disturbing, yet positive in meaning. In King Oedipus' suffering he is finally vindicated, accepted by the King of Athens, and yet dies while being an outcast by many but with honor and pride of himself and his actions subsequent his many years of suffering blind, walking in the harsh desert with his daughter Antigone. His two son's deaths, the predecessor King of Thebes, Creon also reaps tragedy in a major and soul stirring way. The ultimate death of Antigone, Creon's son and wife, the vindication of Oedipus and self punishment of Creon's pride; there are many lessons, many meanings in these three stories. The tragedy conveyed is that of a nature of pessimism and yet a numinous quality of the irrational in the Dionysian, in the void of Being, in the sacred as opposed to the profane.<br />Now as far as Freud is concerned with his 20th century psychoanalysis he labels the \\"Oedipus Complex,\\" I can understand the similarity with the sexual attraction towards a parent, however I find there is really no connection here with the plays of Sophocles and that of Freud. There simply is no relation towards the desires of murder and sex, as these actions were entirely accidental and pre-determined by the gods, by the oracle. So in line with this, taking it much further, that is, to those Jim Morrison listener's of music, there is great difference in the original intent of Sophocles and that of the mantra uttering \\"Kill the Father, F---- the Mother.\\"<br />What also makes these plays so enlightening is the origin from a totally non-theistic society far apart from the monotheistic mindset of the Western civilization, as we know it and so deeply ingrained in both thought and rational analysis.	2004-07-01
US	52783335	R3PZS7O0KTNWUU	0691017778	331110003	The Myth of the Eternal Return: Or, Cosmos and History	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Ability to Recreate verses Historical Existentialism	.<BR>I'm in awe over this book! It's a larger lens, a higher mountain to see religious and historical thought. Really, I am amazed at this book. 50 years after it is written and I've read hundreds of books and here I am dumb founded. Read some of the other amazon.com reviews here (some are excellent) and now I am adding to them.<br />Eliade relates two main types of persons. The archaic man and the modern. The archaic models his life on archetypes, similiar to Plato's &quot;world of ideas,&quot; forsaking history in favor of such. He repeatedly and continually destroys all history and recreates himself in a new beginning. He does this by entering a timeless realm Eliade calls the illo tempore, a timeless and numinous death and rebirth, which he bases on cyclic events of some type. <br />The modern man negates all of this in favor of historicity. He measures all history and time, or the profane time, and bases his entire life on the meaning of such in present existence and all future decision making. However, without the archaic man's non-historical regenerative abilities to recreate himself in such timelessness, or in the sacred, in imitation of archetypes, the modern historical man faces extreme existential despair. But what saves the modern man from suicide and utter meaninglessness in relativism and nihilism; he joins to his historical self, either religious faith, cyclic theories, mysticism, science and philosophy. <br />Hegel suggests history (and all the evil in history) is never repeated and necessary for the evolution to higher ends. Only persons like Belinsky or Dostoeyski have resisted but weakly in that. Marx had made a science of history as the results of the class struggle, which ultimately fails and leaves us in our existential relativity. <br />So remedies are created to coincide with historical measurement, as in Nietzsche's Eternal Return,although cyclic in nature is not the Eternal Return of the Archaic man who regenerations a new beginning, but rather that of the Greek Heraclitus and Pythagorean thoughts, are the cyclic meanings needed to live a life of measured time and history apart from the archaic regenerative man of archetype models and rebirth into new beginnings. The same holds true for Oswald Spenglers biological conception of history and Heidegger's idea of historicity transcending all are what modern man must attach to his linear historical measurement. <br />While monotheism, the first to measure history and time encounters the timelessness of the illo tempore in the beginning of creation and in the &quot;end&quot; of the world or in Christianity in the second coming of the messiah. Unlike the archaic man who enters the new creation each and every time he recreates both himself and his world. <br />Eliade suggests that perhaps mankind will one day return to the archaic man of regeneration in repetition of rituals and meaning to cease measuring this time and enter in the timelessness, letting go of history and entering in the illo tempore.<br />(Archetype Non-Historical Regeneration Man)<BR>The wind blows - but - gets continually reborn; or,<BR>(Historical Man with Religious Faith)<BR>Cling to your dusty mirror and hold God's hand.<BR>(Historical Man without Religious Faith)<BR>Or the mirror without dust would destroy the world.<br />And to sum it up, Archaic man had no history, repeated archetype models, destroying his past (all history) and recreating the beginning of time each year in a mystical, timeless moment in the illo tempore, all history erased. While modern man relies on history and profane time and gains either science, philosophy or religious faith to prevent him from dying in existential despair.<br />Now I'm reading this great book entitled, When Science Meets Religion, by Ian G. Barbour and reading of those with religious faith who conform the uncertainties of quantum physics with a God who controls such acausual events. Seeing this through Eliade's lens, I see this as an historicalman's attempt to join religious faith to his history and science in order to prevent him from existential despair in the terror of history. For the archaic man none of this is needed, as he will erase all history, re-creating the beginning of time reborn in the timeless moment of illo tempore, not of some future time but of the present.<br />And while the modern man has history and faith, he also forms minority governments to control, organized and maintains his linear history. The majority are followers, freedom is seriously limited. The archaic man has complete freedom as each time cycle or year, to erase all history, to enter in the timeless moment of the archetype of illo tempore and re-create himself and his world.<br />I can't say enough for this book, this only a summary of a higher mountain to see humanity.	2004-07-01
US	52783335	R24IWLJ8P6U5VW	0425170454	520752026	Light My Fire: My Life with The Doors	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Intellectual, Psychedelic &amp; The Desert Song	.<BR>What impressed me very much about Ray Manzarek's book are both his observations of the 1960's time era and his knowledge of Greek and Nietzschian thoughts pertaining to Morrison and Dionysian darkness within the Doors music and creativity. His descriptions of Morrison's early acid trip where he envisioned a Satyr following him down the street; that would be the theme of his Dionysian career in the spirit of music, tragedy, dithyrambs and poetry. And Manzareks thoughts on the 1960's, drug use - it's psychedelic spiritual meaning as opposed to the designer drugs of escapism and the comparison of alcohol, the fundamentalism of the government contrasted the peace loving flower movement of mind expansion are worth reading the book by itself. It was like I was saying such things. His further description on the Satyr and Bacchius; this is coming from an intellectual from the 60's, with perception to see \\"behind\\" surface societal and cultural conditioning.<br />I truly became subjective inside the story, and that's what a good novel is supposed to do. And here it was actual history, a time era, a band, the people, and of course, Jim Morrison, his friend and someone you can see he deeply loved. I felt as though I was sitting in his car with him and Dorothy the day he first heard a Doors song on the radio - \\"Light My Fire\\" - and shouted out the window, \\"There playing our song!\\" \\"We're on the f----n' radio!\\" <br />Manzarek tells of Jim verses \\"Jimbo,\\" and I can't help but think of Nietzsche's other personality, the shadow side, that finally consumed him in the end into his 11 last years of insanity. This &quot;Jimbo&quot; is someone spoken of objectively and there is no malice here, but brotherly affection and you can really see that after reading Denzmore's account, which has some accounts not mentioned by Manzarek: one example - that of Jim coming into the Manzarek house/studio late at night, drunk, obnoxious, gesturing, smashing and standing on Manzarek's records withhis sandy feet at the beach house they rented where Manzarek lived and the band rehearsed.<br />I also very much enjoyed Denzmore's \\"Riders on the Storm\\" and can say a lot of positive traits of his account. However, I favor Manzareks book for his insights on his experiential meditations, trips, Dionysian comparisons and ultimately his warmness that permeates through the pages. Now Denzmore also had very insightful experiences and thoughts to convey, on the love generation, Edith Hamilton, Michael Harner, Jim Hillman, Joseph Campbell, Robert Bly, a host of others  and of course Nietzsche and I also highly recommend Denzmore's book. Both Denzmore's and Manzarek's books  complement each other significantly. <br />I once met Ray Manzarek at a Sci-fi/Movie/Music convention in New Jersey. He was sitting at his own table along with host of other artist's tables. I was with my young son and introduced myself, shook hands, made eye contact. I could feel his energy and that for me is enough. Nothing was said; as if words are ultimately meaningless, unless much is said, and even then, it's only the non-verbal, the power, the Dionysian and essence that has real meaning. All else is interpretation; and lacking at that.	2004-06-28
US	52783335	R3UCMZQZ4YKVRV	0394703693	922733443	The Birth of Tragedy and The Case of Wagner	Books	5	15	21	N	N	Dionysian without Apollo Will Destroy - Rebirth of Tragedy	.<BR>The Birth of Tragedy, Nietzsche's first book. Why have I read it? Three reasons. One, I am studying ancient Greek culture. Secondly, I love to learn anything from mysticism, spiritual and Eastern thought, psychology and philosophy and again Grecian thought of Plato, Socrates, Aristophanes, Sophocles and etc. Third, I've always admired Jim Morrison, a Rock singer and poet who was also influenced by Nietzsche, primarily his interpretation of ancient Greek tragedy, more specifically, &quot;The Birth of Tragedy. And so I've read it. Now Walter Kaufman's translation agrees with me and I think it one of the best in understanding and clarity. This book is a great read and answers so many questions and thoughts. <br />But ultimately I found something I never intended on thinking and it's staring me right in the face with bold assertiveness. I honestly never expected to find this. First Nietzsche does a superb job in slamming the Socratic culture of logic, science and optimism, which I agree, has destroyed the real chaotic nature of true art, the Dionysus nature and that of the real meaning of tragedy. He is right on the money here. &quot;Existence is only justified as an aesthetic phenomenon.&quot; Euripides has destroyed the Aeschylean and Sophoclean tragedy into Socratized thinking. The Dionysian element of chaos, of drunkenness and dissolution, of irrational art in it's raw existence is imaged by Apollo and necessary in conceptualization of the fleeting moment of depth that only resides in temporal flow of Dionysus and yet is destroyed by the scientific Socratized analysis. Euripides's plays have adopted such logic, lost the Dionysus, taken the optimism and linguistic clarity in destroying the satyr's chaotic hold of frenzy and creativity found in formless tragedy of music. The Apollonian form is imagery while the Dionysian forms the Apollonian. &quot;Dionysian speaks the language of Apollo, and Apollo, finally the language of Dionysus and so the highest goal of tragedy and all art is obtained.&quot; P. 130 <br />All of this, and much more, is brilliant and profound, but then, this now leads to something about German history, and is there in the flagrant words, of Nietzsche who calls for &quot;The rebirth of tragedy,&quot; the rebirth of Greek tragedy. Where is this? In the German spirit. <br />&quot;Out of the Dionysian root of the German spirit a power has arisen which, having nothing in common with the primitive conditions of Socratic culture, can neither be explained nor excused by it, but which is rather felt by this culture as something terribly inexplicable and overwhelming hostile, the German music we must understand it. from Bach to Beethoven, and to Wagner.&quot; p. 119 <br />What is this Dionysian root, this power from the German spirit.? Nietzsche symbolically calls it a &quot;demon, &quot; a power one that cannot be easily subdued, and it is rising from the unfathomable depths, which is against the Socratic logic and superficial optimism. And here Nietzsche goes further than music into a Dionysian spirit of German philosophy that he believes transcends the boundaries of Socratic thinking into adrenaline flowed tragic rediscovery, a rebirth of Greek tragedy. <br />&quot;Let us recollect further that Kant and Schopenhauer made it possible for the spirit of German philosophy, streaming from similar sources to destroy scientific Socratism's complacent delight in existence by establishing its boundaries; how through this delimitation was introduced an infinitely profounder and more serious view of ethical problems and of art, which we may designate as Dionysian wisdom comprised in concepts. . . .&quot; p. 120 <br />In the earlier sections Nietzsche brought home the point that lyrical composition and most certainly concepts of any nature could not contain any shape or form of Dionysian, as it is only found in the raw and creative form of music. And now I find a contradiction, as Nietzsche is telling us of Kant's and Schopenhauer's thoughts to be comprised in Dionysian wisdom. It has now planted the seed for German readers and thinkers.<br />What this philosphical Dionysian wisdom and the German spirited power of Dionysian music now needs is a new political leader.<br />&quot;And if the German should hesitantly look around for a leader who might bring him back again into his long lost home whose ways and paths he scarcely knows anymore, let him merely listen to the ecstatically luring call of the Dionysan bird that hovers above him and wants to point the way for him.&quot; p. 139<br />I don't know about you, but this sounds like the Dionysan &quot;furor&quot; to me. A new tragic, ecstatic leader, a non-Socratic leader with charisma and power. Now who later fits this bill?<br />Just imagine the adrenaline flow as the German people leave their Socratic constraints of logic and enter into their Dionysian nature of power and run down the street and smash the Jewish windows declaring in ecstasy, the Dionysian power of the new German spirit, the rebirth of Greek tragedy. Do you see what I'm leading to here? Real history! Don't get me wrong, please. Nietzsche does not talk hatred, or anti-Semitic, no not at all! But he sets the stage for chaos, for hate to come out of the depths of men and women that already contain Dionysian nature deep inside their non-Socratic nature, the &quot;primitive man&quot; as Nietzsche calls it, when the Apollonian is disregarded and the rational, optimistic Socratic man is destroyed and the Dionysian can come out and &quot;tragedy be reborn.&quot; <br />Don't get me wrong, I think Nietzsche is amazing in his acknowledgment and connection to the real depth of the Dionysian spirit. But do get me right on this; this is dangerous teaching, dangerous enough to let educated people loose their Socratic, scientific nature and enter places they should not be. Nietzsche  even writes in a letter 10/8/1868 to Rohide, (p. 120 ftn.) that the dimension of feelings of Wagner's music are greater than the &quot;weak eyes and feeble legs of the educated.&quot;<br />Live life to the fullest without Apollo to conceptualize and form you, which subdues and constrains, and you will most assuredly mis-translate William Blake's words (as Jim Morrison did) in telling us &quot;to live the road to excess.&quot; Live Socratic thinking alone, without Dionysus, and you will be destroyed, dead to the aesthetic, inner creative and primordial self. Live Dionysus without Apollo and without Socratic thinking and you will either destroy yourself or those around you.	2004-06-15
US	52783335	R2R0SQS5CBMAEG	0140441069	874869418	Three Tales (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	0	3	N	N	Three Friendly Short Stories - That Is All	.<BR>Three Tales,&quot; written 20 years after &quot;Madam Bovery,&quot; this from a well known French writer, Gustave Flaubert, like many others, becomes more valued years after his works in French literary importance.<br />His first story, &quot;Simple Heart,&quot; appears to relate a life of both ignorance and acceptance that endures in suffering. Although a life with obstacles, it ends with a somber type of happiness and sense of completeness that elevates loyalty, simplistic ignorance and childlike acceptance that paradoxically ends in futility, the futility of life itself. &quot;Ignorance is both tragic and bliss.&quot;<br />In the seconds story of St. Julian, it contains similarities with the ancient Greek tragedy of King Odepius, told by Sophocles. For in both Flaubert's story of St. Julian and Sophocles story of King Odepius, the tale begins with an oracle that predetermines the character's fate with his subsequent attempts to alter his destiny. Both stories relate how destiny and freedom exist in relative degrees and are thus illusionary in the absolute sense. It's a matter of accepting such destiny and working within the limitations to make the changes that prove human dignity can never be erased. It is the freedom within boundaries that can never be crossed. If I had to compare these two stories, St. Julian is far inferior, but an entertaining read. St. Julian, a killer of a man who becomes the most empathetic, forgiven by God and carried away like Elisha.<br />The third story, Herodius, is an extension or more detailed, fictious, story of the gospel account of John the Baptist and his subsequent execution.<br />All three stories are short and flow.	2004-06-15
US	52783335	R21X3D1VAL3N37	0446602280	638210143	No One Here Gets Out Alive	Books	5	2	5	N	N	The Eros of Dionysus Living	.<br />Hopkins and Sugerman's book, \\"No One Here Gets Out Alive\\" is a interesting, detailed and fascinating read. I've yet to compare it to Manzarek's and Denzmore's versions of Morrison's life, but I can say this book had me very absorbed with much thinking. I have seen the Val Kilmer movie prior and mentally attempted to piece the parts from the movie and to fill in the many other parts into the gaps. What I found of much more significance and pleasure in this book, was the ideas that Morrision thought, the books he read and the thinkers who influenced him. I found myself reading the quotes that were taken from him over and over again which very much help get the feel of where his mind was at. This book was highly interesting.<br /><br />As I read this book I couldn't help to compare Morrison with the type of men Socrates was described to have taught in \\"The Republic of Plato.\\" He just fit this very type of student so well that I found myself comparing him to what Socrates spoke and to that of an interpretive essay on this subject by Alan Bloom, a translator of Plato. And so I will just make a few comments on this book's description of Jim Morrison with the type of man Socrates sought after. This is not such a far fetched analysis, as Morrison himself was a reader of Nietzsche, and in agreement of such, an advent admirer of the chaotic, destructive, artistic and creative personality of the Greek god Dionysus.<br /><br />Jim Morrison was a man of desires, someone who lived to fulfill them, to walk in them, breath them who would cross many boundaries others would not dare to. This is an intense kind of person. And you can see that in Jim's influence from the Jack Kerouac character of Dean Moriarty (Neil Cassidy), a total Dionysan, chaotic character of eros, a Dr. Faust in wild indulgent living.<br /><br />The fight of the Apollonian nature, that of rationalism and duty, to that of the Dionysan nature of chaotic and erotic desires is from Greek tragedy and comes from eros, as the erotic man, and eros is a mad master. Eros will break the laws, cross all boundaries and make a man an enemy of other men. While politics always seem hostile to such, Morrison's early statement of describing himself and The Doors as \\"erotic politicians\\" makes sense in that it is the eros that leads a man to being either a tyrant or a philosopher, that is either a man of exploitation or a man of thinking. While these may seem entirely different, it is two sides of the same coin. One looks externally unsatisfied, while the other internally, who becomes satisfied.<br /><br />The tyrant is willing to both think and do things that cross all boundaries, while the thinker will only be willing to think such things without horror, yet each one of these men are willing to see beyond the laws and conventions in their quest for nature.<br /><br />\\"Eros is a demonic voice. The tyrant and the philosopher are united in their sense of their radical incompleteness and their longing for wholeness, in their passion and in their singlemindedness. They are the truly dedicated men.\\" Allan Bloom, Interpretative Essay on The Republic of Plato, p. 424<br /><br />This is the type of man that the Greek philosopher Socrates sought for, a man who lived by his desires. Both men fell into the Dionysan chaotic nature of passionate walk in indulgence and gratification, however the tyrant could never be fulfilled, while the philosopher can. The result was Socrates had successful students who sought philosophy and knowledge, as in Plato and Xenophon, to those who left to the path of the tyrants, such as Alcibiades and Critias.<br /><br />You can see this pattern in Morrison's life, his knowledge and desire to excel in philosophical thinking, in poetry and social revolutionary thought as in Nietzsche,Rimaud and Norman O. Brown. You can see this in Morrison's interest in tragedy and existential relationships and his subsequent lifestyle (Weber) of heavy indulgence in drinking and wreckless living, his boredom in what others would consider such a great achievement and his search towards poetry and theater, unsatisfied with his accomplishments. Ultimately, it is the path of the tyrant that is self-destructive, the life of the fast lane of the speeding bullet of Dean Moriarty, of Faust, of 6 years from the beginning of The Doors to the death of Jim Morrison.great achievement and his search towards poetry and theater, unsatisfied with his accomplishments. Ultimately, it is the path of the tyrant that is self-destructive, the life of the fast lane of the speeding bullet of Dean Moriarty, of Faust, of 6 years from the beginning of The Doors to the death of Jim Morrison.	2004-05-27
US	52783335	R3K9TG0W1K4YLF	0195003640	64542062	The Republic Of Plato	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Understandable Translation with Explanatory Intros	.<br />This translation of Cornford is the best one that I've found for clarity and understanding. The translation itself is not exact or literal, as I find strict adhesure to the literal as corrupting the clarity with exactitude and awkwardness. No doubt if you rather a more exact translation then you must look perhaps to Allan Bloom's, which is totally a good one, and much more so it's the 100+ page interpretive essay of Bloom that makes his book totally worthwhile.<br /><br />Cornford further divides \\"The Republic of Plato\\" into 6 Parts with multiple chapters in each part! And to top if off with an introduction in italics before each new topic that he has divided into separate chapters. This is extremely helpful to piece all the thoughts together and I find it a hell of lot more helpful then the traditional 10 books/divisions found in Bloom's translation, and most others.<br /><br />You can't help but admire Socrates how he reasons so well how truth is always a paradox and not one-sided, as in that of justice verses injustice, how Thrasymachus argues the stronger are the ones who control and benefit, While Socrates argues the weaker are that ones that benefit from requiring the need of the stronger's art of practicing justice in order to receive the injustice he dominates from the weaker. It's incredible paradox and argument. Of course when the stronger becomes less strong and the weaker less weak a balance of justice occurs but not with radical equalitarian methods of communism or totalitarianism, but rather with wise Philosopher Kings and the Guardians that protect the society.<br /><br />Socrates government has some totalitarian attributes, as in the sharing children and censorship, while other aspects, such as the training of the Guardians, the Philosopher kings, and most assuredly, his analysis of comparison of oligarchy, democracy, timocracy and despotism, including the nature of individuals in such systems makes this highly interesting material. And none of Socrates words in Plato's writing and Cornford's translation are obscure and overly abstract. There is no Immanuel Kant language, or Hegel, here.<br /><br />What a great thinker Socrates was. It may be more accurate to say what a great thinker Plato was in his description of Socrates. His continual quest for truth, virtue and in the case of Plato's Republic, justice. At first his idea of justice is very noble and always intriguing, thought provoking and honorable. However, what begins as an intellectual idea of what justice is, ends up being a logically formed government that intellectually, or scientifically, measures, analyzes and controls the creativity of man, a government that epitomizes what centuries later labeled as the Enlightenment, which demystified the artistic man into a pragmatic and positivist being. While democracy based on a rational system of \\"rights\\" developed from the likes of Hobbes, Locke and Mill, what ultimately resulted was a Marxist censorship government of control that emulated itself much in line with this Plato's Republic, the extreme rule built on scientific and rational means of communism and totalitarianism.<br /><br />It becomes utterly frightening to hear Socrates speak so eloquently and intelligibly on what reads as good common sense of a cities justice, training, rule and protection that history has revealed as governmental experiments that were tried, tested, enforced, controlled and in turn, destroyed the chaotic, non-rational elements of creative value producing ability in human society. The results of such totalitarian and authoritarian regimes, all built on the seemingly rational and coherent science of common rule and radical equalitarianism have proved themselves horrendously disastrous.<br /><br />Some examples are: the youth should be trained as soldiers for the city. All scripture, the stories of Homer and the gods, must be censored and altered to shine only a positive or molded light that conforms to the leaders decision. The leaders, while only those of older age would be qualified, would receive a life carefully censored, trained and observed from youth, and would supposedly then become completely wise as philosophers kings, and in this way cannot bring injustice to their rulership. In addition, all music, poetry, art is censored. People who need lifetime medical attention should not receive such and die, (their much better off this way!) as they are nonproductive to the growth and science of what constitutes an ideal and perfect city.<br /><br />Socrates/Plato's descriptions of the two world view and the allegory of the cave are in themselves absolute masterpieces and have literally shaped Western civilization as we know it and are truly behind the majority of ideas and teachings we currently believe and are raised in.<br /><br />Ultimately, I found Socrates argument on Philosophy verses Poetry amazing and understand why Nietzsche completely rebelled and attacked Socrates. I then venture to the East as in the Vigyan Bhairav Tantra and Osho's commentary on such, as in some of Krishnamurti, Buddha, Krishna, Mahriavara and the idea of something beyond the mind/Apollonian/head rationalism of Socrates and the heart/Dionysus/emotion irrationalism of Nietzsche. To Socrates the mind and reason are superior to the emotions and feelings. To Nietzsche it is in the realm of emotions, in the passions of irrationalism and the art of creativity where the superior strength of man exists. To the East it is neither, but the mind and heart act as instruments of something of a Higher realm, the Consciousness or the Self, which exists outside the mind. Here I will agree with all three modes of thought: that fundamentalism and one-sided truths are bogus and for lower and ignorant thinkers. However, it was Socrates who failed to understand the depth of significance in the irrational, while Nietzsche recognized the foolishness and stupidity of biblical literalism and morality codes based on fundamental reasoning.<br /><br />The irrational is what molds the rational, while the rational chisels it's form. It's the passiveness of Yin and the tension of Yang, which when let go and surrender are simply the Tao.<br /><br />The ending of the Republic is worth the read. It is here Socrates supports immortality of the soul and reincarnation and it's amazing how you can see this is the precursor of the bible. The last book or account is symbolic and mythological on the pattern of the universe, the same as the book of Revelation is in the bible with its judgments of the just and unjust and depiction of a heavenly Jerusalem. Socrates also speaks of the winner of a race receiving the crown and the idea of Tartarus, as repeated in the letters of St. Paul. The men who wrote the bible and decided it's cannon are no doubt imitating the Republic of Plato, not to mention Dante and others who were heavily influenced by this book. And what a book it is!ion. The leaders, while only those of older age would be qualified, would receive a life carefully censored, trained and observed from youth, and would supposedly then become completely wise as philosophers kings, and in this way cannot bring injustice to their rulership. In addition, all music, poetry, art is censored. People who need lifetime medical attention should not receive such and die, (their much better off this way!) as they are nonproductive to the growth and science of what constitutes an ideal and perfect city.<br /><br />Socrates/Plato's descriptions of the two world view and the allegory of the cave are in themselves absolute masterpieces and have literally shaped Western civilization as we know it and are truly behind the majority of ideas and teachings we currently believe and are raised in.<br /><br />Ultimately, I found Socrates argument on Philosophy verses Poetry amazing and understand why Nietzsche completely rebelled and attacked Socrates. I then venture to the East as in the Vigyan Bhairav Tantra and Osho's commentary on such, as in some of Krishnamurti, Buddha, Krishna, Mahriavara and the idea of something beyond the mind/Apollonian/head rationalism of Socrates and the heart/Dionysus/emotion irrationalism of Nietzsche. To Socrates the mind and reason are superior to the emotions and feelings. To Nietzsche it is in the realm of emotions, in the passions of irrationalism and the art of creativity where the superior strength of man exists. To the East it is neither, but the mind and heart act as instruments of something of a Higher realm, the Consciousness or the Self, which exists outside the mind. Here I will agree with all three modes of thought: that fundamentalism and one-sided truths are bogus and for lower and ignorant thinkers. However, it was Socrates who failed to understand the depth of significance in the irrational, while Nietzsche recognized the foolishness and stupidity of biblical literalism and morality codes based on fundamental reasoning.<br /><br />The irrational is what molds the rational, while the rational chisels it's form. It's the passiveness of Yin and the tension of Yang, which when let go and surrender are simply the Tao.<br /><br />The ending of the Republic is worth the read. It is here Socrates supports immortality of the soul and reincarnation and it's amazing how you can see this is the precursor of the bible. The last book or account is symbolic and mythological on the pattern of the universe, the same as the book of Revelation is in the bible with its judgments of the just and unjust and depiction of a heavenly Jerusalem. Socrates also speaks of the winner of a race receiving the crown and the idea of Tartarus, as repeated in the letters of St. Paul. The men who wrote the bible and decided it's cannon are no doubt imitating the Republic of Plato, not to mention Dante and others who were heavily influenced by this book. And what a book it is!	2004-05-06
US	52783335	R3D58MN9MRL54O	0394741048	772590568	Letters to a Young Poet	Books	5	26	26	N	N	The Ability to Feel Life - Apart From One-Sided Thinking	.<BR>This book is a treasure of a man of solitude and poetic ability to FEEL life, not simply an intellectual exercise like 99% people in our so called \\"enlightened\\" world so do. It's amazing how insightful Rilke was at such a young age. And yet the world today, the power, control and politics currently live in a fundamentally thinking world of one-sided blindness that is so far apart from Rilke that it is like a regression of humanity of large and major proportion, and in such a short amount of time.<br />On solitude and the ability to be childlike (not childish), that is, living in the present moment in appreciation of what simply is, apart from all concepts, occupations and fundamental thinking and answers of security and certainty, Rilke writes:<br />\\"There is one solitude and that is great . . . a great inner solitude. Going into oneself and for hours meeting no one - this one must be able to attain. To be solitary, the way one was solitary as a child, when the grownups went around involved with things that seemed important and big because they themselves looked so busy . . . and when one day one perceives that their occupations are paltry, their professions petrified and no longer linked with (real) living . . Only the individual who is solitary is like a thing placed under profound laws, and when he goes out into the morning that is just beginning, or looks out into the evening that is full of happening . . . all status drops from him as a dead man, though he stands in the midst of sheer life. pp. 45-47<br />Rilke knew that life was creative, an art not grasped by criticism and intellectualism:<br />\\"Words of art are of an infinite loneliness and with nothing so little to be reached as with criticism. Only love can grasp and hold and be just toward them.\\" p. 29<br />This is because life is not about the answers, for truth only stands in relativity, as the intellectual fails to realize, only living in despair or in bogus formulas for safety. For life is aboutliving dangerously in the difficult, not in the comfort zones, which ultimately are not real comfort, but illusion of such. Living in the fast lane but with discernment, there is a balance, like a tamed down Dr. Faust.<br />\\"Do not seek the answers, which cannot be given you because you would not be able to live them. And the point is, to live everything. Live the questions now.\\" p. 35<br />\\" We must assume our existence as broadly as we in any way can; everything, even the unheard-of, must be possible in it. That is at bottom the only courage that is demanded of us: to have courage for the most strange, the most singular and the most inexplicable that we may encounter.\\" <br />And finally to sum Rilke's incredible insight,<br />\\"Nobody can counsel you and help you, nobody. There is only one single way. Go into yourself.\\"	2004-04-21
US	52783335	R2SCJAXHSLMMVZ	0451528255	614661659	The Story of My Life	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Where Heart and Depth Transcend the Mind	.<BR>A book to read that is of the warmness of soul, an account that conveys love and realness. The body and the mind are only the peripheries, for it is the soul or consciousness that is of the real person. So when the mind is expanded in knowledge and intellect, one can find erroneously enter in it's subjectivity defining such as the real self or one can use such intellectualism as an instrument of the consciousness and view objectively. This then allows the heart and feelings to penetrate, in turn the mind is transcended, one goes beyond the mind to the real inner self. And when this occurs the result culminates in the most beautiful and extraordinary person. Such is the case of Helen Keller.<br />Her fingers found expression, felt emotion and penetrated the surface into the feelings and depth in the person she encountered, in the words that she read and in the vibrations that she felt. I have read in the East, that consciousness does not come to us solely through the eyes and ears, but when such peripheries are  down we can perceive in much more strength through other senses.<br />\\"I derive genuine pleasure from touching great works of art. As my finger tips trace line and curve, they discover the thought and emotion which the artist has portrayed. I can feel in the faces of gods and heroes hate, courage and love, just as I can detect them in living faces I am permitted to touch.\\" P. 68<br />In a letter she received from Mr. Gilder, Helen wrote,<br />\\"In a letter he wrote me he made his mark under his signature deep in the paper so that I could feel it.\\" . . . and \\" I feel the twinkle of his eye in the handshake.\\" P. 75<br />Case in point is that of poetry. What the average school teacher and intellectual defines in art and poetry are the stanzas, the numerical structures and literary criticism. Now this actually destroys such forms of art. But what intellectual, a person that uses their head without the heart can fathom any understanding beyond such? Helen wrote:<br />\\"Great poetry, whether in English or Greek, needs no other interpreter than a responsive heart. Would that the host of those who make the great works of the poets odious by their analysis, impositions and laborious comments might learn this simple truth! It is not necessary that one should be able to define every word and give it its principal parts and its grammatical position in the sentence in order to understand and appreciate a fine poem.\\" p. 59<br />Not only did she find the external world but went to the university and went further in learning and knowledge than most. But it is her understanding and diligence, her positivism and depth that this autobiography conveys.<br />After reading her account, I can say that if I could love another person, I have fallen in love with Helen.<br />\\"Is it not true, then, that my life with all its limitations touches at many points the lif of the World Beautiful? Everything has its wonders, even darkness and silence, and I learn, whatever state I may be in, therein to be content.	2004-04-15
US	52783335	R3NLS1KKSV07TJ	0691017948	356513109	Synchronicity: An Acausal Connecting Principle	Books	5	6	9	N	Y	Reality Behind Chance Events	.  What an awesome book! Our whole civilization is based on Newton's cause and effect and great technological and scientific achievements have been produced from such knowledge. However, it is Max Plank's and Einstein's discovery of quantum physics, that of the atom, where such Newtonian law of cause and effect does not apply. There is a relativity or undetermined, non-causuality of the movement of the electron. It does not operate according to such law and this is a strange thing indeed. It appears to operate in an acausal effect, one that is determined my chance, and by the person who is examining such movements appears to have an effect on such just by his observation! There is an amazing chaotic element of the operation here.     And this takes us to the idea of synchronicity, that of events occurring outside of Newtonian's law of cause and effect. In this book, Jung does a detailed analysis of planetary alignment and married couples. Anotherwards this acausal effect takes in astrology and chance. Now come to play the games of chance such as Tarot and I-Ching, both ancient oracles in predicting events of chance.     While Jung cannot prove anything measurable in line with science's cause and effect analysis, he does portray a much higher probability in such measurements he records, much more than average chance occurs, relating his argument in the existence of acausal happenings outside of our Newtonian frame of minds. It is an amazing task.      What is so interesting is that the motivation and faith of the person partaking in the experiment appears to have a direct effect on the outcome. I've read this before how faith - an inner determined belief - has a creative effect on our destination and karmic outcome. And what is of equal interest is Jung's few accounts, his story of a fish, his story of a beetle - as in the Scarab beetle dream of a patient that synchronized with an event of a beetle and so forth.     While astrology and I-Ching and other clairvoyant and telepathic events may be blown off by the Newtonian minds of science and trashed by the religious fundamentalists who superstitiously equate acausal events to demons, the idea of acausal events, synchronicity is a reality to be observed, as in the electron, and yet not proven scientifically.	2004-04-14
US	52783335	R363O1CXRFX3IE	0486287149	282010593	Death in Venice (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Apollonian verse Dionysus	.<BR>An awesome book that reveals the Dionysus which lives in all of us. One can read about the controlled organized and stable self verses the chaotic center, but it is a story as this that artistically conveys the idea in subjective terms. An older, well respected man in his 50's, one of reputable character, in that of an intellectual and artist, a man who lives and represents the Apollonian man of stability and chiseled living succumbs to his inner chaotic self. It's not that Aschenbach was a fraud or false, yet in a sense he was, as all of us are, whether we are willing to admit it to ourselves or not. Then there are many of us who have ceased to experience our Dionysus since many years, however it lives dormant in us as a part of our true selves.<br />An so this respectable, reliable, stable man falls in love with an image or eros, that of a 14 year old boy staying at the same hotel as his. He never speaks to the boy, nor has any direct contact other than a handful of eye contact glances that seem to acknowledge each other and his loving adoration for his object of beauty. And that is it: the beauty of this boy was the highest of expression of the intellectual, the eros. His beauty, grace and movement took over Aschenbach's logic of the Apollonian side, exposing his internal turmoil to the point that he followed the boy and his family just to watch and dream, to feel the feelings that come from internal chaos and adulation. <br />The story itself has much meaning, the writing style is prose and lives as a classic. Amazing how such was written at the time of such repression, but despite all perceived advancements in human tolerance and understanding, there exists little difference today in those of repressive Apollonian character and those of the extreme contrast in Dionysus living.	2004-04-13
US	52783335	R15RSCELTYUX5Z	0312180586	17783435	The Book of Secrets	Books	5	37	39	N	N	Utterly Profound	.<BR>112 Meditation techniques for us who do not know how to surrender, otherwise we need no techniques. And so, here is from a 5,000 year old text the most amazing techniques, so simple and yet so profound. Ultimately, it is Osho's commentary of over 1100 pages that make this book one I just could not put down. <br />You only need one or two techniques, whichever one works for you. You are an intellectual, you perceive life with the mind, you use one type of technique. You are a person of feelings, of the heart; you use another type of technique. <br />There's just too much profound information to write a review here. I can relate how the mind is not you, thoughts are not you, just as the body is not you, but rather instruments used by our consciousness. To get a glimpse of our consciousness, of our real selves apart from our minds; that is where true peace lies, where the center of the present moment resides. The mind is a process like walking, it is only the movement of thoughts, of waves of energy, stop thinking and we have no mind. The question is how to stop thinking, even for a moment. And so 112 mediation techniques to allow the mind to cease to gain a fleeting glimpse of the consciousness and you will never walk away as the same person ever again. You will be changed, both mentally and physically. The seed can flower, only when it is in touch with itself.<br />The mind accumulates which ultimately allows it to commit intellectual suicide in childlike awareness. Not childish ignorance, but like a child the mind is dropped, only this time it transcends the intellect that has been acquired.<br />This is the best book I have ever encountered on meditation and I can see why Gurdjeff and so many others practiced many of the different techniques. Ultimately the Tao is simply surrendering, you do not need techniques, but the paradox is effort is at first needed to obtain the ability to trash effort: that is the paradox.	2004-04-12
US	52783335	R2880CZJNOU9KW	1577310640	943758696	You Can Be Happy No Matter What: Five Principles for Keeping Life in Perspective	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Natural State of Mind verses Habitual Thought Patterns	.  What a wonderful book!! Ultimately, it is the ability to leave the habitual thought patterns, that of analytical thinking and contemplative efforts to the state of thoughtless non-activity, which Carlson calls the \\"Natural State of Mind.\\" This is truly the place where peace and happiness always exists, always in the present moment regardless of external circumstances.    Carlson calls this a new teaching and labels the area outside of the habitual thought patterns an area called the Natural State of Mind. While this may be true, it has been known for thousands of years, such as in the Gita, many of the Sutras and the Vigyan Bhairav Tantra, which Osho so profoundly expounds upon. The only difference is the two opposing forces are those of the mind and the consciousness/the no-mind, as the mind itself is the disease. Regardless of how you wish to interpret it teaching is basically the same. One place is of thoughts and computer analytical deductions and interpretations, the other is the area of peace and thoughtless, relaxed wisdom. If you can come to the awareness that your mind is not you, but habitual patterns of thought that can both benefit you greatly and detrimentally disturb you - depending on how you use it - then you can obtain the ability to leave the mind and rest in the consciousness or natural state and find happiness despite ALL external circumstances. It is an amazingly profound concept. To quote one Tibetan Buddhist, Sogyal Rinpoche, from The Tibetan Book of the Living and Dying, \\"Slip quietly out of the noose of your habitual anxious self, release all grasping, and relax into your true nature.\\"    Carlson's comments on moods, feelings and separate realities are equally profound in that our thinking derives from our self accumulated perceptions, our perceptions derive from our thinking patterns and our feelings from our thinking. Our moods, once recognized with our awareness of our mind separate from our natural state can then be tolerated and taken far less seriously, enabling us to both endure and patiently wait until such moods pass over. This is the power we obtain when we can be objective, an objectivity that comes with the ability to enter our natural state of mind (no-mind) and understand our thoughts that are clouding our decisions are from the lower areas of habitual thought patterns.     I can't write like Carlson, or like Osho, but am so grateful to both men and many other authors, psychologists, writers, masters and so forth. I've read this book a dozen times and it's never old, always valuable. Far more valuable than relying on a perceived religious book of absolutes, when in effect, it is the mind and the consciousness (the natural state of mind or the no-mind) that one must discover to find peace, not the other way around.	2004-04-12
US	52783335	R3MG7VA4G4SJCA	0192834274	738061198	Symposium (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Love, Grecian Style	.<BR>Plato's \\"Symposium\\" is the story of Agathon's dinner party where conversation takes place with a small group of men, who recline, eat and drink around a table offering their views on Love. This story is an amazing account of how intelligent and yet so different a culture the men from ancient Greece were compared to our society today. Each speaker has this most amazing ability to tell two stories at the very same time, an creative artistic movement of what love 'is' in each and every story. applying and , metaphorically. intertwining a cultural, mythological story of the gods, giving far deeper meaning. In addition to this, the love relationships and sexual nature of these men also permeate an entire cultural feel to the story, enveloping a radical differentiation from our de-mystified and de-enchanted world back into a once existing world of substantial meaning and profundity.<br />Phaedrus, speaks first and relates how love is the greatest good, the beautiful, is shameful of ugly things and how only lovers are willing to die for one another. <br />The second speaker, Pausanias, applies two types of love, one Aphrodite, a common base love working at random with men's feelings, for money, for loving physical bodies, boys, men and women. The other type of love, from a much younger goddess, being a higher type, the heavenly, who only loves other men and boy love, but this is not physical body love but from affection of the mind of virtue and wisdom..<br />Aristophanes has the hiccups, so it is Eryximachus, a doctor, who speaks third, applying the idea of love as a double love; \\"for bodily health and disease are by common consent different things and unlike, and what is unlike desires and loves things unlike.\\" p.82 The god of art was said to implant love as a healing art, all such love guided by this god. \\"It is quite illogical to say that a harmony is at variance with itself or is made up of notes still at variance.\\" \\"So love as a whole has great and mighty power,or in a word, omnipotence .\\"<br />Aristophanes, the comic writer, gives a moving account of Love as a absolute human need, a desire for completion to the point of each person once shaped differently being cut in half, taking our current shape, in need of the other to complete the whole of what we once were. \\"For first there were three sexes, not two as at present, male and female, but also a third having both together,\\" and they were violent, strong and forceful and would even attack the gods. So Zeus and the other gods held a meeting and decided to cut them in halves and make them weaker. From then on, they were sexually drawn to one another, both heterosexual and homosexual, reasons all due to the way of the cutting of the halves.Lesbianism and boy to man love is freely spoken of and justified according to this story of the gods. His moving speech on the beauty and virtue of love however, is according to Socrates, true only in the sense of romanticism and fictional idolatrous admiration of what love should be. For Socrates found such a romantic explanation of love as untrue to what love really is and what love contains, as it does not contain all the beauty and good.<br />The fourth speaker, Agathon gives a moving speech on the beauty and virtue of love however, it is according to Socrates, true only in the sense of romanticism and fictional idolatrous admiration of what love should be. \\"For all the gods are happy . . and love is the happiest of them all being the most beautiful and best . . the youngest of gods.\\" In his speech, love is every good, virtuosos and beautiful thing.<br />The last speaker, Socrates, found such a romantic explanation of love to be untrue, for what desires good, virtue and wisdom is only something that does not contain such, something lacking, and therefore lacking it desires such things. Love only desires what it lacks. Love is neither beautiful nor ugly. \\"To have right opinion without being able to give reason is neither to understandnor is it ignorance. Right opinion is no doubt something between knowledge and ignorance.\\"<br />It is so interesting how common and free sexuality and homosexuality were, how each man present commented on the beauty of the young men in their glory of youth. Alcibiades, jealous of Agathon, also a young beautiful male, makes a moving speech how Socrates refused his love and how other like young men, also were moved with his amazing wisdom and prose. <br />While women are generally discounted, and the bonding of affection in male love was considered a higher love by Pausanias, Socrates explanation of love, by far the most profound, was one he received from a woman named Diotima. Here, as another reviewer has stated, shows Plato's the egalitarianism and wisdom, like that of the beauty and ultimate goal of Love. <br />Later a group of men crash the party and the drinking really gets started. Some leave, while Socrates stays all night, never loosing integrity from his drinking and leaves with all his integrity.	2004-02-14
US	52783335	R1HZ52TK0Q8U2K	0915144247	763699786	Meno (Hackett Classics)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Can Virtue Be Taught?	.<BR>For such a short story, so much is said. Reading Plato answers many questions and exposes the framework of so many later writers of history, a classic that should be read and contemplated. Spending the time reading on Plato's Meno reaps much, far more valuable than vast amounts of mediocre writers. Can you imagine if the masses spent as much time reading Plato as they do their shod journalism!<br />Actually this idea of virtue has the basics of all philosophical thought, the direction of the whole or the overall purpose always direct the thoughts. Virtue acts as the driving force of the empirical observation and technical craft. Virtue is the purpose, the why, as opposed to the what. And so, it has been determined from the conversation of Socrates and Meno, that virtue is not knowledge, it is not the &quot;what&quot; but rather it is that which moves the direction behind knowledge and therefore cannot be taught. And if it is not knowledge then it can be observed by example, yet Socrates determined that virtue is from a divine source, the inspiration that is behind all knowledge.	2004-02-12
US	52783335	R17CJHVRBQCXIW	0929524276	698316753	Ion (Bryn Mawr Commentaries, Greek)	Books	5	2	13	N	N	Inspiration, Self-Creation, or Both?	.  In ION, Socrates says ION, a reciter of Homer, is not an artist but argues that his skill is that which is inspired by a larger source. That he is not an artist, but rather conveying the source as a magnet strings along a series of conductors, a chain of rings, so to speak, from the divine to the inspired ION to the audience that is moved by his recitals of Homer. And that ION's recital of Homer is just a carrier of such divine inspiration, transmitter of force, that he can not know more about driving than a true charioteer, or fishing than a true fisherman and medicine than a true doctor, the characters he depicts in his recitals.     My first argument was that Socrates appears to miss in his inquiry, is the idea that ION is an artist, or as Nietzsche and Max Weber have illustrated, a value-producer and self-creator. He may not have the art of the fisherman, the doctor and the charioteer, which he so vividly depicts, but he does have his own perception and imagination coupled with his own ability to both self-create and act. Inspired yes, yet the creation of his realty. All humans filter realty and project their own image, either from a collective consciousness or that of their own individual autonomous self, however such value producing autonomy remains to those with such amazing and profound ability, as Christ, Krishna, Buddha and so forth. ION therefore is not depicting a true doctor, fisherman, nor the literal and actual essence of Homer's Illiad and Odyssey, but he is creating from himself something new. He is a producer, a creator in using his imagination, his acting skills.     Yet for Socrates, he is only a magnetic conductor of divinely inspired source information. And he may be right. Rather than being a mere artist as I argue above, the idea that music excites the right hemispere of the brain which in turn spreads to areas of both hallucinatory audio and visual occurences is something that Julian Jaynes brings out in his thesis of the bicameral mind,which existed prior to the self-conscious mind as we know it, which can be subsequently tapped into in what is known as possesions, speaking in tongues and other hallucinatory occurences, the right hemisphere of the brain can be triggered with poetry accompanied by music. This can be seen in priestesses of the Oracles of Delphi as they went through various inductions, music and rituals into trances as if possessed, speaking and singing from what can be interpreted as coming from the right hemisphere of the brain, overtaking the normal languistic motor skills of the left. I recommend reading Julian Jaynes book entitled, The Origin of Consciousness in the Break Down of The Bicameral Mind.    \\" . . . all good poets, epic as well as lyric, composed their beautiful poems not by art, but because they are inspired and possessed . . . there is no invention in him until he has been inspired and is out of his senses and the mind is no longer in him.\\" - Plato, Ion,    Comparing the Muses inspiration (the internal hallucinatory-auditory songs of the divine female voices of the muses) in the Iliad and in Hesiod's Theogony, Jaynes states: \\"The evidence, therefore, suggests that up to the eighth and probably the seventh century, B.C., the poet was not out of his mind as he was later in Plato's day. Rather, his creativity was perhaps much closer to what we have come to call bicameral. The fact that such poets were \\"wretched things of shame, mere bellies,\\" as the Muses scornfully mocked their human adoring mediums, unskilled roughs who came from the more primitive and lonely levels of the social structure, such as shepherds, is in accord with such a suggestion. Mere bellies out in the fields had less opportunity to be changed by the new mentality. And loneliness can lead to hallucination.\\" p. 373    It was the dramatic change from the calm poets of the bicameral mind, who regularly, without effort heard the Muses inside his head to the later poet of Plato's day who had to go into afrenzy, esctasy, or even possession, to bring on the internal hallucinatory voices inside the mind.	2004-02-11
US	52783335	R1FVXV54ZRAZWQ	B00005X50L	864672439	Way to wisdom, an introduction to philosophy	Books	5	20	21	N	Y	The Way of The Unknown, Using The Known, Yet Never Absolute	.<BR>This is a great, practical and user friendly book in the basics of what philosophy is, the history of philosophy which includes the idea of the axial age, the difference between absolute and relative knowledge, the idea of nonknowledge and the connection of philosophy with science.<br />Jaspers, like Plato, tells us that philosophy is the direction we take, the idea of the whole picture. While science is the measurable analysis and empirical observation, philosophy is the direction behind such, the idea of why we are learning the what. This is very much like Plato's Meno, where Socrates and Meno decide that virtue is beyond knowledge and is instead the direction of opinion, or as Jaspers calls it &quot;nonknowledge.&quot;<br />On page 127, Jaspers writes:<br />&quot;By technically applying my knowledge I can act outwardly but nonknowledge makes possible an inner action by which I transform myself. This is another and deeper kind of thought; it is not detached from being and oriented toward an object but is a process of my innermost self, in which though and being become identical. Measured by outward, technical power, this thought of inner action is as nothing, it is no applied knowledge that can be possessed, it cannot be fashioned according to plan and purpose; it is an authentic illumination and growth into being.&quot;<br />Philosophy must reside in uncertainty, waywardness towards the unknown, never absolute like science. On page 129,<br />&quot;Philosophy must even leave the possibility of full communication in uncertainty, though it lives by faith in communication and stakes everything on communication. We can believe in it but not know it. To believe that we possess it is to have lost it.&quot;<br />We must have philosophy to direct our science (virtue) and remove us froe scientific superstition and we must have science to have substance to our philosophy and remove us from philosophical superstition.<br />Pages 159-160:<br />&quot;Any philosopher who is not trained in a scientific discipline and who fails to keep his scientific interests constantly alive will inevitably bungle and stumble and mistake uncritical rough drafts for definitive knowledge. Unless an idea is submitted to the coldly dispassionate test of scientific inquiry, it is rapidly consumed in the fire of emotions and passions, or else it withers into a dry and narrow fanaticism . . . rejecting superstitious belief in science as well as contempt of science, philosophy grants its unconditional recognition to modern science.&quot;<br />Jasper ends his book with a short outline on the major thinkers and writers in philosophy and our personal decision of who to study to build up our knowledge. But can virtue be taught? He endorses what an old counsel to study Plato and Kant since they cover all the essentials. An overall good read, a substantial subject in a modern society devoid of substance and profound meaning.<br />&quot;Today independence seems to be silently disappearing beneath the inundation of all life by the typical, the habitual, the unquestioned commonplace.&quot; - 1954, KARL JASPERS, Way to Wisdom, An Introduction to Philosophy, p. 110	2004-02-10
US	52783335	R23PNC9ZIBQJIY	0811201856	661053616	A Season in Hell and The Drunken Boat	Books	5	10	16	N	Y	Passionate, Painful, Agonizing and Surreal	.<BR>What an amazing passionate book of prose and poetry! It's alive with pain, chaos and joy, screaming in anguish in streaming movement that is pouring out of the pages in utter agonizing derision and pain, flowing in surreal release of tension and expression.<br />The beginning of the book has a short bio and although short and concise, it vaguely talks about how scandalous Rimbaud and his companion Verlaine were in descriptive sexual analogy, refusing to use the word \\"sexual\\" and \\"lover.\\" <br />Here was a young man who found a gay lover 20 years his senior and traveled in complete uncertainty and insecurity, a \\"Faustian Man,\\" such as Dean Moriarty in Jack Kerouac's 'On The Road.' Rimbaud was a man who lived in the present moment of risk, spontaneity and the faith to walk in uncertainly and courageously. And this of course brings true living over the comfort zone of existing, which accompanies such an artist with intense pain, guilt, creativity, joy, hurt, anguish and exploding passions. The pages reek with chaotic artistic surrealism. <br />This man was a rare creator. An outcast of society, a vagabond in decadence and carousing avenging scandal, however a living man of flowing movement, unlike our dead, civilized and rational society. And for this, the man and his poetry snubbed and forgotten, only to be noticed at a later time and recognized for its aesthetic, passionate value. This is typical with almost all true creators of autonomous ability and dangerous living.<br />From page 23:<br />\\"Boredom is no longer my love. Rages, debauchery, madness, - I have known all their soarings and their disasters, - My whole burden is laid down. Let us contemplate undazed the extent of my innocence. I would no longer be capable of begging the solace of a bastinado. I don't fancy myself embarked on a wedding with Jesus Christ as father-in-law. I am not a prisoner of my reason. I said: God, I want freedom in salvation: how am I to seek it? Frivolous tastes have left me. No more need of devotion or of divine love. No more regrets for the age of render hearts. Each of us has his reason, scorn and charity; I reserve my place at the top of that angelic ladder of common sense. As for established happiness, domestic or not . . . no, I cannot. I am too dissipated, too weak. Life flourishing through toil, old platitude! As for me, my life is not heavy enough, it flies and floats far above action, that precious focus of the world. What an old maid I am getting to be, lacking the courage to be in love with death! If only God would grant me celestial, aerial calm, prayer, - like the ancient Saints, - Saints, giants! anchorites, artists such as are not wanted any more! Farce without end? My innocence would make me weep. Life is the farce we all have to lead.\\"	2004-02-06
US	52783335	R2VDVE4WBG0GF	0679720200	882163178	The Stranger	Books	5	7	10	N	Y	Subjectivity Distorts The Facts	.<BR>In the story of the Stranger, one finds the lead character, Meursault lacking creativity and of passions within oneself, of the depth of conflict that burns in one's center that moves with chaos and value-positing; none of this can be found in Meursault. He is matter of fact in everything. True, his acceptance and passionless being allows him to under go his ordeal in subdued emotion and unenthusiastic plight, yet this groundlessness and existential being does not excite in living, but simply goes along in existing. <br />Even in Meursault's act of killing, there lacks any real passionate fervor. His pulling of the trigger was just that; an easy act of the finger and no real understanding, that is, no depth in comprehension of the act itself, but merely a nonchalant action that seems to have been the best alternative of action at the time of occurrence. And yet, the lack of alternative actions is the problem. <br />In each and every situation in Meursault's life, from the death of his mother to his sexual relationship to his befriending his neighbors, all is performed as a cog in a machine. As each piano key is hit, only to be in succession of what is already programmed on the sheet roll of music. The \\"last man\\" mentality of the Lockean view of self-preservation dominates Meursault's life as the bourgeois in existential nothingness and mediocre existence. <br />Should Meursault suffer as he did for his actions? Were they really so evil? Were his actions simply the result of being in the wrong place at the wrong time, or in this case, befriending the wrong person who caused these thugs to appear for Meursault to confront? If life can be reduced to existence over conflict then certainly Meursault could be pardoned.  But the one must ask if Meursault's action, the act of murder, not of self defense, can ever be excused, simply for the fact that the man who committed such did so from a lack of inner conflict and passion, from an act that simply called to be for themoment it presided in.<br />The answer to Camus' Meursault comes from our view of subjectivity or objectivity. The Stranger places us in the former as we are personally involved as we read the story from the inside view and thus we side with Meursault. Yet when we are able to detach ourselves and look objectively, we gain a higher perspective and thus a different viewpoint.<br />Robert Shattuck, from his book Forbidden Knowledge, remarks on The Stranger with the following point, that knowledge can be double bound; subjective or objective;:<br />\\"The closer one approaches to an event or to a person, the less securely one seems to know it. The trees obscure the forest. The more one knows, the less one knows. Perception itself requires a certain distance. Empathy hides more than it reveals.\\" p. 162 <br />Our closeness brings empathy, which distorts our power of observation and obscures the facts. That appears to be the case in Camus' The Stranger.	2004-01-22
US	52783335	R2BFL867UXM8CM	0679720200	882163178	The Stranger	Books	5	1	4	N	Y	Subjectivity Distorts Perception	.<BR>In the story of the Stranger, one finds the lead character, Meursault lacking creativity and of passions within oneself, of the depth of conflict that burns in one's center that moves with chaos and value-positing; none of this can be found in Meursault. He is matter of fact in everything. True, his acceptance and passionless being allows him to under go his ordeal in subdued emotion and unenthusiastic plight, yet this groundlessness and existential being does not excite in living, but simply goes along in existing. <BR> <BR>Even in Meursault's act of killing, there lacks any real passionate fervor. His pulling of the trigger was just that; an easy act of the finger and no real understanding, that is, no depth in comprehension of the act itself, but merely a nonchalant action that seems to have been the best alternative of action at the time of occurrence. And yet, the lack of alternative actions is the problem. <BR> <BR>In each and every situation in Meursault's life, from the death of his mother to his sexual relationship to his befriending his neighbors, all is performed as a cog in a machine. As each piano key is hit, only to be in succession of what is already programmed on the sheet roll of music. The \\"last man\\" mentality of the Lockean view of self-preservation dominates Meursault's life as the bourgeois in existential nothingness and mediocre existence. <BR> <BR>Should Meursault suffer as he did for his actions? Were they really so evil? Were his actions simply the result of being in the wrong place at the wrong time, or in this case, befriending the wrong person who caused these thugs to appear for Meursault to confront? If life can be reduced to existence over conflict then certainly Meursault could be pardoned.  But the one must ask if Meursault's action, the act of murder, not of self defense, can ever be excused, simply for the fact that the man who committed such did so from a lack of inner conflict and passion, from an act that simply called to be for the moment it presided in.<BR> <BR>The answer to Camus' Meursault comes from our view of subjectivity or objectivity. The Stranger places us in the former as we are personally involved as we read the story from the inside view and thus we side with Meursault. Yet when we are able to detach ourselves and look objectively, we gain a higher perspective and thus a different viewpoint.<BR> <BR>Robert Shattuck, from his book Forbidden Knowledge, remarks on The Stranger with the following point, that knowledge can be double bound; subjective or objective;:<BR> <BR>\\"The closer one approaches to an event or to a person, the less securely one seems to know it. The trees obscure the forest. The more one knows, the less one knows. Perception itself requires a certain distance. Empathy hides more than it reveals.\\" p. 162 <BR> <BR>Our closeness brings empathy, which distorts our power of observation and obscures the facts. That appears to be the case in Camus' The Stranger.	2004-01-21
US	52783335	RP5E3POZQXI3L	0671657151	12401298	The Closing of the American Mind	Books	5	17	20	N	N	The Purpose of True Education; Inner Directed Development	A major impact in my thinking and an awesome introduction to Nietzsche, nihilism and the American education system. Bloom outlines what education was compared to what it is today. How cultures consisted of much more than mere nationalism, but rather, educated thinkers who influenced Western civilization from non-equalitarian societies. Bloom relates thoughts from Alex de Toquville and the problem of equalitarianism, the deterioration of the American educational system and the problem of nihilism. In doing this, Bloom, outlines the teachings of Nietzsche, Max Weber, Marx and other major thinkers that have dealt with such issues.     Weber's charisma, to Marx's rationalism to Nietzsche's culture, self-positing and value creating ability, using Heidegger's term of \\"authenticity,\\" Bloom delivers a book that is worth every page and chapter. His outline of the 1960's turmoil that aided to both the extension of nihilism and the deterioration of the University is essential reading. The MBA has replaced true educational and cultural reflection that molds, shapes and infuses interior authenticity in individuals that in turn, form our leaders, thinkers and greats of our time period. But where are they today? Certainly a much smaller and obscure group that is both surrounded and smothered by external, outer-direction that fails to produce those great thinkers that have literally changed the course of Western civilization.     Bloom also ventures into morality, music and general social conditions that affect our American civilization and most certainly his students and the University, once a \\"sacred\\" place of character development, now a place where the classics have been shelved in the humanities, rejected by the scientific champions, only to find students - the back bone of future thinkers - to obtain more superfluous knowledge determined solely for financial success and material gain; external accomplishments devoid of internal character authenticity and inner-directed valuepositing.     Bloom's book should be read by every educator. The University that seriously values the original intent of such educational institutions since their inception have lost sight of direction.     Those that blow this book off as conservative verses liberal miss the entire theme of Bloom's complaint and value of the great minds that form our entire society and civilization.    Now the paradox here is: I totally agree with Bloom's analysis on former American society as a book reading intelligent culture even especially among the youth subsequently transforming into a superficial consumer orientated mentality. And yet I strongly disagree with his negative assessment of the 1960's rebelliousness, which in my opinion, was a remarkable socialistic awaking of the youth and culture into insight above and beyond the controlling rhetoric and conditioning of the wealthy and powerful.    There are two significant points that I have received from this book:    1. That the original American culture has transformed from the authentic self capable of alternative thoughts based on individual rights to the protection of individual groups or subcultures - \\"whites,\\" blacks\\" \\"feminists\\" & etc. Relativism has blurred the lines of distinction into the acceptance of all teachings, including those that contradict our most fundamental. Our individual \\"Lockean\\" rights, that is, the individual's ability to choose from alternative branches of thinking apart from the pressure of public opinion have descended into the pressure opinions of the \\"group\\" we associate ourselves with.    2. The most insidious and effective transformation of our most cherished values, that of \\"freedom,\\" \\"democracy,\\" \\"rights\\" and etc., do not have to be directly challenged to be assaulted. But rather, the linguistics do the work, that is, the words themselves remain as champions in the front line as ultimate American values, but subtly, without conscious awareness, the very meanings of the words have changed,and in some cases radically mutating to the polar opposites of their original intent.	2004-01-05
US	52783335	RTNW4YZ47ZZHN	0691019835	206555027	Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Monumental Achievement In The Study of Nietzsche	.<BR>This book is both beneficial to the study of Nietzsche and rather impressive. The 1974 edition has been updated and edited in it's fourth edition with prefaces from 1950, 1956, 1968 and 1974 and one can see with the extensive amount of footnotes through out the book that many changes, updates and corrections have been made over the years, as much thought and scholarship is contained in these pages. One can just imagine Kaufmann consulting various professors, and layman alike, receiving criticism, subsequently updating his extensive, yet non-exhaustive study and analysis of Nietzsche.<BR> <BR>It must be said that this is a much more honest and well-rounded study than Heidegger, however Heidegger's theologian style I particularly love, as I am also a reader of theology, such as Paul Tillich. And I would recommend reading both author's analysis, as well as Karl Jaspers.<BR> <BR>Kaufmann most certainly does an adequate explanation of Nietzsche's teachings and his falsely interpreted racism and anti-semitism so found in the exegesis of bias his sister and Nazi and nationalistic writers of the past. I think this is a fair assessment of Nietzsche, including his love and influence of Schopenhauer and Wagner, only to change course from both men in his objection to the racism, anti-semitism and pessimism of both and the subsequent idolatry of the Wagnerians and those romantics who fail in reason and those who reason who fail to attack their own convictions, as conviction act as mental prisons. (p. 355). Ultimately, Nietzsche perceived the greatness of men not in biological Darwinian terms, but of cultural terms, that in the philosopher, artists and saints. <BR> <BR>Nietzsche was convinced that all life sprung from the one source (monism) - the Will to Power, which in turn contained both passion and reason, both form and chaos, both good and evil and it was not dualistic and to be extirpated or repressed as in Christianity, but rather to be re-directed, sublimated into self-mastery, self-overcoming into a created, controlled self, an Overman. (p. 251). However first he must brand himself (p. 253) - a war of the accepted, not creation.\\" (p. 111) with values; self-positing, self-creating himself and then subliminating his directions, a creation, a \\"yes to Being.\\" (p. 282). Kaufman calls this \\"monadological pluralism. (p. 243). Christianity was Not the flowering bud on the dung, as anti-semitic interpreters saw him, but rather \\"the miscarriage of Judaism.\\"(pp. 299-300)<BR> <BR>It's ironic how Nietzsche said greatness would consist in holding one's own in an unfinished system with free, unlimited views\\" as Leonardo da Vinici did, as systems act as blinders and bar many views, and yet one must have some type of finished system to analyze Nietzsche. (p. 87). Yet systems are good insofar as they reveal the character of a great thinker - independent of the truth of the system. (p. 81). And in this system one can find that the creativity, the Dionysus of Goethe which acts to absorb the Apollinian, which Apollinian is in self-mastery, self-overcoming (pp. 16, 242) of the Dionysus for \\"this is a man!,\\" the passionate former of the chaos. (p. 410). Artists may be sick people (p.180) however; there is a sharp difference between the artist that is empty in hunger and that who in fullness overflows. (p. 375)<BR> <BR>While Nietzsche recognized the emptiness of romanticism, the remedy of Socratic reason was only a temporal fix, as the time would come when such temporality would end into destruction, as \\"one had only one choice; either to perish or - to be absurdly rational\\" (p.406), In the wisdom of Socrates courage to die that for himself no ultimate cure is possible - except death itself. (p. 407) \\"The classical I call the healthy and the romantic I call the sick.\\" (p. 380). The artist must first do as Oscar Wilde has stated; he must first melt down the bronze in order to create a new piece of art. The healthy man was the Apollinian over the Dionysian (pp. 131-132), and the Dionysian was not romanticism. (p. 138).<BR> <BR>The entire book is worth the read, however the appendix is for the study of manuscripts and previous authors and more for a study of post-Nietzsche interpretations as opposed to the study of Nietzsche's thoughts themselves.<br />So much more can be said of Kaufmann's analysis and one must truly see this book as a wonderful means to the mind of Nietzsche.	2004-01-03
US	52783335	R1GTS6NHHTSY5Y	0061300942	109781221	The Present Age	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Nihilism, Forfeited Individuality &amp; The Passionless Age	.<BR>Soren Kierkegaard was a contemporary and unique thinker. In &quot;The Present Age&quot; one finds many thoughts that are both subsequently echoed in parallel thoughts and/or have directly influenced other great thinkers. For instance Kierkegaard speaks of the danger of loosing individuality to the abstract form of public opinion. Many of his thoughts can be found in later writings of  Alex de Tocqueville, Nietzsche and Heidegger. In Kierkegaard's case, true individualism is based on the Christian religion (apart from Christendom). Written over almost two hundred years ago and yet so contemporary are Kierkegaard's words to our present age of nihilism and rule of public opinion.<br />On Nihilism and relativism, Kierkegaard writes:<br />&quot;A passionate tumultuous age will overthrow everything, pull everything down; but a revolutionary age, that is at the same time reflective and passionless, transforms that expression of strength into a feat of dialectics; it leaves everything standing but cunningly empties it of significance. Instead of culminating in a rebellion it reduces the inward reality of all relationships to a reflective tension which leaves everything standing but makes the whole of life ambiguous; so that everything continues to exist factually whilst by a dialectical deceit, privatissime, it supplies a secret interpretation - that it does not exist: p. 42<br />On individualism and public opinion, Kierkegaard writes:<br />&quot;The abstract principle of leveling . . has no personal relation to any individual but has only an abstract relationship which is the same for every one. There, no hero suffers for others, or helps them; the taskmaster of all alike is the leveling and himself becomes greatest does not become an outstanding man or a hero - that would only impede the leveling process, which is rigidly consistent to the end - he himself prevents that from happening because he has understood the meaning of leveling; he becomes a man and nothing else, in the complete equalitarian sense. That is the idea of religion. But, under those conditions, the equalitarian order is sever and the profit is seemingly very small; seemingly, for unless the individual learns in the reality of religion and before God to be content with himself, and learns, instead of dominating others, to dominate himself, content as priest to be his own audience, and as author his own reader, if he will not learn to be satisfied with that as the highest, because it is the expression of the equality of all men before God and of our likeness to others, then he will not escape from reflection. &quot; p.57<br />&quot;The public is a concept which could not have occurred in antiquity because the people en masse, in corpore, took part in any situation which arose, and were responsible for the actions of the individual, and, moreover, the individual was personally present and had to submit at once to applause or disapproval for his decision. Only when the sense of association in society is no longer strong enough to give life to concrete realties is the Press able to create that abstraction 'the public', consisting of unreal individuals who never are and never can be united in an actual situation or organization - and yet are held together as a whole.&quot; p. 60<br />&quot;The man who has no opinion of an event at the actual moment accepts the opinion of the majority, or, if he is quarrelsome, of the minority. But it must be remembered that the majority and minority are real people, and that is why the individual is assisted by adhering to them. A public, on the contrary, is an abstraction. To adopt the opinion of this or that man means that one knows that they will be subjected to the same dangers as oneself, that they will be led astray with one if the opinion leads astray. But to adopt the same opinion as the public is a deceptive consolation because the public is only there in abstracto. p.61	2004-01-02
US	52783335	R10K1CSFERRLQO	0140042598	303305496	On the Road (Penguin Orange Collection)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Faustian Living ; Living In The Moment	.<BR>Jack Kerouac and Neil Cassidy (Dean Moriarty) travel without anxiety, free of consequences and the ability to live as Kerouac calls it &quot;not as ordinary people, but as burning flames that burn, burn, burn, as roman candles in the sky.&quot; Cassidy it truly the &quot;Faustian&quot; man, and here is a world that no longer exists, that of a time period from 1947 to 1949 in the States. By the time the book was release and obtained notoriety, it was 10 years later and Kerouac was exhausted from heavy drinking and tired from his struggle, only to unenthusiastically record the &quot;Beat Generation&quot; with Steve Allen and deny his favorable association with Ginsberg in various interviews.<br />I am not at liberty to truly compare the world of &quot;On The Road&quot; with today's world, as Amazon will censor this review and delete it. However if you observe the Kerouac's description of each city he visits, his road trips and behavior, one must ask themselves if this is the same place today. The answer is strikingly obvious and forthright melancholy. Each city had active centers of drinking, reveling and music (Slim Gallard) enjoyed with limited restrictions. Smoking &quot;tea&quot; and open containers were most certainly not of major concern in the areas Kerouac and Cassidy caroused. To be Caucasian and traveling, without the slightest fright of a &quot;DWI&quot; was a world of excitement and freedom. Across the country at high speeds, rarely pulled over in a string of visitations to areas of new friendships and hardships, yet here was the &quot;Faustian&quot; man, living in the moment, broke, uncertain enveloped with the courage and faith of living rather than merely existing.<br />Here was a world where teenagers like Kerouac and Cassidy were impressed over the intellectualism of Marcel Proust, Dostoyevsky and Spengler, where smoking &quot;tea&quot; and discussing Nietzsche was in the same corridor. Where people such as these were impressed by writing, thinking and freedom of living out of conformity, another wards a world completely lost from the masses today. The accounts of courage coupled with both discernment and outright foolishness. <br />A world at the dawn of &quot;McCarthyism,&quot; devoid from the &quot;War on Drugs,&quot; and the &quot;Patriot Act,&quot; a world of free discovery of hitchhiking and Kerouac's description of living in temporary places to make a few dollars, as he was always broke, and his love affairs, travels and bouts with Cassidy is a book that brings one into a fantasy world (at one time a real world) of courage and dangerous living. There's much to be read &quot;unsaid&quot; in his accounts and one will think twice before ever starting a sole hitch across the country wearing only a pair of moccasins, only to go back home to change them.	2003-12-30
US	52783335	R16IUOP397SITN	067973452X	286460989	Notes from Underground (Vintage Classics)	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Trapped in Subjectivity and Sensitivity	Dostoyevsky is what he calls himself \\"a sick man, a mean man, there is nothing attractive about me . . I am horribly sensitive.\\" pp.1, 95 <br />In his story he is incredibly subjective, sensitive and becomes insulted over miniscule and slight actions of others, all interpreted in his mind in major proportion, the molehills become mountains, all in Dostoyevsky's mind. In his raised elevation of desire over reason, he appears to let his interior desires overlay his reasons, thus distorting them into hyper sensitivity. <br />\\"I put desire over reason.\\"<br />His desires apparently distort his reason, in that he looses all self-confidence and objectivity.<BR>\\"It seems to me that the meaning of man's life consists in proving to himself every minute that he's a man and not a piano key.\\" p.115 <br />And so it is, Dostoyevsky is constantly trying to prove to himself in that he is not a piano key, but importantly, and for this he is neither objective nor detached, he is continually becoming insulted by the slightest provocations of others, even though such remarks of others are completely unconscious and the result of their personal limitation. Unfortunately, for Dostoyevsky, he is not in the slightest sense \\"thick skinned,\\" and it hurts him greatly. He is his own worst enemy, snowballing his thoughts into hypothetical scenarios that leave him emotionally distraught - all completely unnecessary - but this is Dostoyevsky.<br />The only alternative for Dostoyevsky was to take refuge in his dreams. <br />\\"I took refuge in the sublime and the beautiful - in my dreams, of course.\\" p.136 <br />His dreams are the only place where he cannot be insulted by others from his severe sensitivity and paranoia. And for this he could find no friends, as he became insulted at the slightest remark, even those rendered unintentional. <br />\\"I did make a friend once, but I was already a tyrant at heart and wanted to be the absolute ruler of his mind. I wanted to instill in him contempt of all those around me; I demanded that he break with his world.\\" p. 147 <br />What a sad document of life. A man so sensitive, he became a \\"tyrant\\" to himself and to all those he attempted unsuccessfully to befriend. A deep thinker, dreamer and inside a man of great worth and wonder, but his own mind entrapped him in such negativity and despair. Unlike another dreamer, Marcel Proust, one of a positive nature, and by far the polar opposite to the legend of Faust, who was a man that lived in existential uncertainty with vigor, strength and the ability to transcend all subjectivity, Dostoyevsky was the Underground Man, who let his own mind destroy him. <br />Note: Page numbers are from the Signet Classic paperback version that includes \\"White Nights,\\" and other selections.	2003-12-18
US	52783335	RPLO332NIU8MB	0060922583	161060786	The Holographic Universe	Books	5	27	34	N	N	Theodicy of Scientific Ideas	.<BR>I usually can determine a good book from the way it remains in the memory after subsequent time passes. In this case, almost a year later and I'm still thinking about Talbot's book.<br />Some notes I have made regarding wonderful points raised by Talbot.<br />1. The Mind fills in the physical holes in the eye's retina: completing eyesight with what the MIND perceives (not the eye sees) it to be; as opposed to naked reality.<br />2. Schizophrenia; the possibility of different souls, different persons, living in one body, as each personality contains entirely different electrical brain impulses, opposing patterns, and physiological variations, conflicting allergies, negative and positive physical traits that cannot be found in one individual.<br />3. Energy patterns leave traceable fingerprints in the holographic universe, traumatic events leave stronger residual patterns. An individual's energy pattern, angle and strength, may align itself with the remaining pattern of a previous event, thus illuminating and/or creating the observation of a ghost, an apparition of past events, places and peoples.<br />4. Repressed energy can result in the manifestation of poltergeist activity, appearing to be from external sources.<br />5. Advanced meditation results in equality and replacement to entheogenic drug use in mystical experiential consciousness. The example of Ram Dass (Richard Albert) encounter with an Indian Mystic more capable of mystical experience than the strongest dosage of hallucinogenic.<br />6. Non locality: the aspect of all reality, projected into the illusion of time and space, of separations.<br />7. Thought Bursts; this is an amazing idea. While all information is conveyed point-to-point, in thought bursts one obtains groups of thoughts at once time, that is increased levels of awareness. The result; head rushes, or revelations, inspirations. It is suggested that death experiences of entire lifetimes passing in a matter of a split second are of this nature.<br />This book has much more to relate. Five stars on my part.	2003-12-18
US	52783335	R3EU1S65X5R09E	0070333114	535903455	001: Discovering the Mind: Goethe, Kant, and Hegel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Readable, Understandable Analysis of Great Minds	.<br />Is it fair to rate such persons by other authors who analyze them? I think so. In the case of Goethe, I highly recommend reading some of his works and the conversations with Peter Eckermann. What's crucial is understanding Goethe's main thesis and outlook in comparison to his contemporary Kant and how he influenced subsequent philosophers such as Hegel, who tried to bridge Kant and Goethe, unsuccessfully and Shiller, the poet, who unsuccessfully tried the same.<br />On Kant: you can spend a year or more reading his verbose and heavily obscure style which one must read each sentence twice before digesting, or one can read Kaufmann's book and another great book on Kant - Karl Jaspers, Philosophy Volume 1. You really do walk away from this book with a basic understanding of Kant and how he both differs from Goethe - allot, and how he influenced philosophy as we know it. He was a Platonist, Goethe was not. Kant equated life a series of maxims all based on reason, part of a universal, while Goethe saw humanity always in developmental stages, living in uncertainty.<br />This goes with Hegel too. Read some amazon.com reviews on his Phenomenology of the Spirit and you can see, there are those that love to read philosophy but recommend not investing a great deal of time and effort on Hegel. Although one must read Hegel to fully know Hegel. I think Kaufmann does justice. It's nice to have at least a basic grip on both who these men were, what they taught and a limited degree on their background and minds - psychology.<br />Definitely worth the read.	2003-12-17
US	52783335	R34EENOFAU7UN1	0060900075	554528426	The Doors of Perception and Heaven and Hell	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Cerebral Infarction and Increased Human Percepton	.  What does Zen, Hindu and various forms of meditation have in common with poor diet, fasting and starvation, with self inflicted body wounds that bring on infection, with chanting songs and poems that hyperventilate, with yogic breathing exercises? Cerebral Infarction, or as Huxley words as inhibiting the brain's cerebral reduction valve, draining the required glucose to maintain a filtered, that is a reduced amount, of reality to be perceived for the survival of the human species. Whether this science is empirically true or not, the connection is most certainly there. One can find such revelatory and hallucinogenic experiences in the Hindu Upishads and Vedas, the Old and New Testaments and all cultures which have mystical experiences. The Catholic mystics called this experience the \\"gratuitous grace.\\"    Anotherwards, these various forms of ancient religious exercises were designed to allow greater portions of reality to be perceived \\"Mind at Large,\\" by otherwise a limited and filtered human mind that only perceives limited amounts of reality. And both in ancient times with the use of etheogenic/hallucinogenic plants, and now in modern times with laboratory extraction and use of such plants this opening of perception (doors of perception) of the human mind, are opened to allow such beneficial observation.     According to Huxley, this is not an escape to utopia, nor an ultimate answer, however it is an experience that will ever change the human in a most beneficial way, where he will never quite be the same but will have a newer and deeper understanding of art, creativity and perception as never before. Not as a simple recreational tool, but an advancement for the intellectual.     I agree with his assessment.	2003-12-17
US	52783335	R24E6CBB4OLU3P	0887383947	490829294	Nietzsche, Heidegger, and Buber (Discovering the Mind Series)	Books	4	14	20	N	N	Good Beginner's Course - Except Read Heigegger Yourself	.<BR>Great analysis on Neitzsche, except you must read Kaufmann's book devoted to him. This is rather a small amount of information, a good introduction. <br />On Heidegger, you must read him yourself, primarily his Volumes I and II on Nietzsche. Kaufmann critizises Heidegger and much of his points are valid, however it is unfair to make a judgment and assessment call based on this, for after reading Heidegger's Neitzshe, my love for his analysis speaks for itself. What is here is Kaufmann looks at the man who wrote the information, his psychology. In this case Heidegger a pompous verbose fellow who at one time was a Nazi. But don't base your conclusion on this: read his Nietzsche and see if your not mesmurized and further developed in your understanding and love for Nietzsche.<br />On Buber, it is a good thing to read this outline, as Buber is somewhat verbose in his \\"I and Thou\\" and kaufmann is ready to both analyse it and critizise it for both its beneficial and faulty theory, as Kaufmann recognizes that not all human relationships must be subjecttive, but in some cases objective is actually more valuable. Try reading his book of the Hasidim.<br />Overall, this book is a good read, limited, but a good read.	2003-12-17
US	52783335	R24LTQMA31PU7V	0060638419	63830996	Nietzsche, Vol. 1: The Will to Power as Art, Vol. 2: The Eternal Recurrance of the Same	Books	5	48	61	N	Y	Mesmerizing and Meditative; The Mind of Heidegger	.<BR>If you like Nietzsche, don't ignore Heidegger's monumental achievement.<BR><BR>Walter Kaufmann's Nietzche, psychologist and philosopher and on Heidegger in Kaufmann's, Discovering The Mind, Vol II, criticizes Heidegger to a great degree. In much of Kaufmann's objections to Heidegger's analogy of Nietzsche include his attempt to explain man's \\"essential ontology\\" into what really amounts to anthropomorphism. Also the fact that Heidegger uses texts of Nietzsche from obscure manuscripts over his published works. This, along with Kaufmann's personal encounters with Heidegger, in which Heidegger claimed to have unpublished writings incapable of adequate translation and explanation in his possession, esoteric information, an obvious manifestation of a prideful and arrogant personality.<br />Now I will agree with the majority of Kaufmann's arguments against Heidegger, including the fact that the man was an active Nazi, a party member and an active advocate of a totalitarian atmosphere imposed at the University he taught at. And it must be noted; there is no anti-semtic writing here, there is only deep and profound analytic treatment of Nietzsche.<br />Despite all of Kaufmann's valid criticisms and objectifications, I find Heidegger's Nietzsche, both mesmerizing, thought provoking and soul stirring. One needs to recognize this book is Heidegger, not Nietzche and Heidegger is a deep analytical thinker, whereas, Nietzche was both philosophical and poetic and top it all off, psychological. It takes a man like Heidegger to give it the philosophical, analytical style. Perhaps it is bias and to a degree \\"scandalous,\\" as Kaufmann so brazenly claims, but to ignore these volumes would be foolish. For me, Heidegger's work is monumental and inspirational. If one reads Heidegger with discernment and awareness, then the four volumes of Nietzche are most beneficial and most certainly worth the read, not to pass in one's study of Nietzsche. <br />In particular the study of the \\"Willto Power as Art,\\" where the truth is an error since art is the becoming and truth is always the become that is becoming in self positing, in artistic creativity of thought, the affixation on an apparition. And Heidegger's analytical explanation of Nietzsche's \\"Eternal Return\\" are far worth this read. <br />Also in line with this, is the explanation of Kaufmann in Nietzsche's Will To Power; not being self-preservation of Spinoza, nor pleasure principle of Freud, but of power, the power of the self-positing and creative center, not the power that dictates over others, which has been administered by totalitarian and authoritarian governments. <br />In addition to Kaufmann and Heidegger, Also excellent books: <BR>Nietzsche: A Philosophical Biography by Rudiger Safranski <BR>Nietzsche : The Man and his Philosophy - R. J. Hollingdale <BR> Nietzsche: by Karl Jaspers	2003-12-07
US	52783335	R3UPGZBHDO83CP	0486228029	783416784	The Malleus Maleficarum of Heinrich Kramer and James Sprenger (Dover Occult)	Books	5	8	18	N	N	A Dark, yet Enlightening Piece of History	.<BR>Why are modern day Catholics defending their faith in low ratings of this book and rationalizations?<br />This book, intelligently written, is of course a frightening revelation of the human logic to rationalize what is most certainly imaginative and invented information, under the guise of factual finds, all based on biblical literalism. Quotes from St. Augustine (also a neurotic) and Aristotle, to name a few are found. Amazing how brilliant minds can get caught up in fantasy and fear. Wiccan can be the most beautiful religion in many circles, this is not the point. The point is the intellect and logic of man, using deductive analysis that is written in pure falacy, which in turn brought forth the rotten fruitage of the most horrendous torture and murders. Do we not read many such books of the same today? Everytime we literalize the bible or get lost in the \\"how\\" over the \\"why,\\" we loose perpective. One just has to look at \\"McCarthyism,\\" the \\"War on Drugs,\\" and now the \\"Patriots Act.\\" So many laws give detailed logic but rationalization is the escape from the courage to be. This book is excellent on human history. There is no need to defend the church, the governments, the logic of it all, rather there is the need to recognize the difference between the letter of laws and the spirit, the motives and the psychology. Detailed structured manuals and formulated laws do not equate truth, nor justice, but rather justice is found in incommunicable laws of being.	2003-10-29
US	52783335	R15ZTA9J6TI8O3	0805031499	901504133	Escape from Freedom	Books	5	55	60	N	N	A Definite Piece of the Puzzle - A Book To Be Read	.  An amazing book that pieces modern society starting from the medieval to the renaissance and reformation, that is, from a well defined structured and fixed group identity, fixed meaning to life, determined purpose to life and the here after, to that of the existential, capitalistic and monopolist society that has produced radical individualism with the type of freedom producing severe loneliness, separation and the need to alleviate such emptiness, which has been fulfilled by illusionary means.    Fromm relates a major piece of Western civilization's struggle in the ability to see the correlation between the medieval, secure, self-employed society to that of the Renaissance, an elite aristocracy employing the masses as dependent employees, commodities under a new capitalistic society. It was here only the limited rich could prosper in creativity, while the masses existed in a new existential despair. And so Luther, and later Calvin, devised new forms of Christianity, existential types, to aid these new psychological needs of the masses in accepting this change from security to exploitation.    Fromm goes both into the psyche of man, the nature of societal structure, the development of western civilization and need for security and certainty to that of either authoritarian rule, internal conscious rule or the invisible rule of democratic conformity to public opinion, or automation.    Basic Masochistic/Sadistic desires of man from the extreme, to what is considered \\"normal\\" has been seen in the forfeit of the individual self into totalitarian control, capitalistic profit and religious and social concepts that attempt to fill the void of separateness without keeping the self.    Fromm ends his book in what the positive traits of what Faust would be: that of spontaneous living, not compulsive living, but in positive affirmation and movement, in the process of life, not the results, the experience of the activity of the present moment. I couldn't agree more.	2003-10-06
US	52783335	R1Z3VWB4XA7JN5	0393008312	995364356	The Future of an Illusion (The Standard Edition)  (Complete Psychological Works of Sigmund Freud)	Books	5	49	63	N	N	Scientifc Analysis of Religion	.<BR>This is Freud's scientific analysis of religion. Religion, along with government and social, moral and ethical codes, or,  civilization act as removing man from his true instinctal and destructive nature into a civil society. Religion is a neccessary illusion derived from men's wishes.<br />Freud can be applauded and admired as a great thinker and psychoanalyst. This is an essential book to read. Yet Freud misses out on the mystical experience, the religious or psychal ability to perceive the irrational, the awe of the numenous, the perceived knowledge apart from rational thinking and intellectual analysis. Or in Rudolph Otto's title, &quot;the idea of the holy.&quot;<br />Freud ends his book, on page 71 with:<br />            &quot;No, our science is no illusion. But an illusion <BR>             it would be to suppose that what science <BR>             cannot give us we can get elsewhere.&quot;<br />So Freud was amazingly accurate on one religious foundation: human ability to create wishes and to civilize himself and in contrast Freud was missing a great deal in the mystical, the non-rational element, thus he discarded all religion as a universally accepted solution to the conflicts that arise in childhood relation to the father. While this may have some validity, it misses completely the symbolic mythological teachings that attempt to convey what is claimed universal to be real religious experience. This is where Freud leaves off and Carl Jung continues.	2003-10-04
US	52783335	R2119CWCBK3RXZ	0385260326	287129497	The Trial of Socrates	Books	5	8	11	N	Y	True Democracy & It's Wrongful Trial	.<BR>What is so amazing about ancient Athens, is it's honest democracy, a true government by the people. This was no counterfeit version of democracy found in modern America with such authoritarian policies of the \\"war on drugs,\\" and the \\"patriot act.\\" Unlike the American justice system, revenue motivated decisions did not hold weight and were non-existent in Athens, where education and oratory powers were taught to ALL citizens, who were in turn, truly listened to, as there were no need for high paid lawyers as in today's so called veneer version of democratic society, for in Athens, each citizen was capable of defending himself in court and the court would honor and listen. There was no inside circle of prosecutor-judge-cop-public defender bias. All citizens took part in juries and government decision-making. True free speech existed, something that most people in today's American democratic society have no idea what that really is. For instance, Socrates, attacked such open freedom and democracy for years. The result was never persecution of any sort, but rather, the playwrights writing of various comedies depicting the infantile and foolish nature of the rhetoric Socrates was churning out.<br />The history Stone brings out is well done. He relates the two temporary successful take overs from the Spartan influenced four hundred and later, the thirty, both replacing the democracy with oligarchy and dictatorships, only to fail in the restoration of democracy. Too make matters worse, the political enemies of such coos were former students of Socrates!<br />What makes Stone's book so congruent with ancient Greece is his historical analysis of the Greek democracy and its very foundational working structure that could not endorse the loss of free thinking. The idea of Witch trials, and persecution  for free thinking and free speech, however condemnatory of the government did not occur. The comedies, such as Astopheles, \\"The Clouds,\\" to name just one, was only one of many that used the anti-democratic, anti-Athens attacks of Socrates as dipiction in exposure of tragedy in comical form. Here Socrates was ridiculed and made to look like a fool. Never was there hard feeling, nor subsequent governmental persecution from such plays. Even Socrates is reported to have laughted openly at the plays dipiction of himself and his \\"thinkery.\\" <br />The problem Stone brings out, and this is the highlight of his book, is that many other historians have literalized such play wrights into literal historical accounts, teaching that true history consisted of the Athenian democracy acting without free speech in punishment and accusations. Here Stone acknowledges such comedies as purely fictional, that is, true characters, places and events fictionally changed, altering either past events, current or future to convey their points. This is reason for their stories that contradict the freedom of the Greek polis, the government of the people, the true democracy.<br />The trial of Socrates was that of paranoia that eventually cropped up in Athens Greece. Two recent governmental take overs occurred with the threat of a third. The previous rebels being Socrates former students. Even here, Socrates could have used a defense that would have surely cleared him, but desired not to. He could have easily reached out to the Athenian ideals of free thinking and speech, the cities gods and goddess of wisdom, persuasion and justice, however his very defense while clearing him, would have both destroyed his anti-democratic, anti-Athens foundational arguments in favor of Spartan-like oligarchy and vindicate the democracy of Athens, the very type of free government that Socrates spent his entire philosophical life attacking. In Athens executed death penalty of Socrates, she went against her very foundation, she sinned against herself.<br />What is so profound about this book and Stone's presentation is the structure of ancient Greece, Athens verses Spartan, and the verymake up of Athens democracy. One shudder's when comparing the real deal and element of open Athenian democracy with the modern day American democracy, gaining understanding of both democratic values, vulnerability and today's quasi- democratic counterfeits, that of totalitarian/authoritarian efforts to control.	2003-09-26
US	52783335	R27STKPXZLHTCE	0961477725	913789811	Fear No Evil: The Pathwork Method of Transforming the Lower Self (Pathwork Series)	Books	5	64	68	N	N	Psychology of the Human Mind	.<BR>Suprisingly well explained. There are other models of human consciousness, such as Freud, or as Sri Aurobindo's, Essays on the Gita, or that of the Buddhist thought in Chogyam Trungpa. <br />Here the mind exists as:<br />1. The Conscious Ego Level, Our Lower Self - where we consciously decide our thoughts and actions. <br />2. The Unconscious Egotistical Child Level, also part of our Lower Self - it is here we unconsciously create faulty habitual thought patterns with decisions based on our avoidance of pain formed from our childhood lack of reason and continued in such irrational and detrimental ways carried into our adulthood. These habitual thought patterns then unconsciously react automatically in negative schematics from original childhood thinking and need to be re-patterned with our adult thoughts, which we do by acknowledging, re-experiencing and transforming such fears into positive courage of evolutionary growth. <br />3. The Supraconscious Higher Universal Self - this is what many others would label our higher self, the universal mind, the ccollective conscious that exists within ourselfs, the no-self, etc. This is our true self, the calm, knowing, patient self with resiliency and creativity of reacting in such a way beyond all negativity.<br />The secret to such succesful thought, peace of mind and self honesty, along with congruent actions, is that of finding the higher self and becoming a true observer of both the Lower Self - Conscious Ego, and that of the Unconscious Ego Self, which both produce the subsequent Mask Self, the false idealized image our Lower Self falsely believes we must be. In turn, we loose this mask, observe it and all our thoughts, both conscious and unconscious reactions, and subsequent actions, all as a true outsider, observing as our inside true higher self.<br />Of course there is much more to thinking, evil, fear and courage and this is well defined and outlined.	2003-09-21
US	52783335	R30YNB5BP5ZHD5	0394421760	249792400	The Decline of the West, Vol. 2: Perspectives of World History	Books	3	17	23	N	N	Biological Assumption of Culture to Civilization and Back	.<BR>The theory of Spengler is as follows: Historical comparison of cultural formation, of governments, of civilizations, of art, architecture and music, of mathematics, science, philosophy, revolutions and control, of formations, destructions and deteriorations of societies and cultures; are thus interpreted to have a similarity with biological structure. Just as a sentient being is born, forms, grows, molds, progresses, digresses, deteriorates, ages, decays and dies, so it is with cultures and civilizations. In this case, a culture in its childlike creative ability solidifies into non-creative matter, stagnant, authoritarian and brittle and then dies. The ability of the \\"becoming\\" (Heraclitus) forms into the \\"become\\" (Permenes). <br />I personally had great difficulty reading both volumes of Decline of the West. I am not a top scholar in philosophy, but have read some of the classics; Plato, Nietzsche, Freud, Weber, Kiergaard, Rousseau, Locke etc. Spengler is an amazing walking and talking, or in this case writing, encyclopedia, however it appears that perhaps his advanced knowledge of  anything from architecture, mathematics, to some unknown internal war and the names and rank of family members relating to the King, including his mother's role in the government compared to another civilization a century before on the other side of the globe, are to say the least, very abstract (or is it exact?) and confusing and detract from his message. Perhaps after my reading another 10 years of history, science, art, philosophy and mathematics, I will have the ability to understand another ten percent of these volumes.<br />One philosopher, Walter Kaufmann, had criticized Spengler's theory. In short, he relates that history is nothing as Hegel or Marx equates, as it does not control the destiny of man and in Spengler's case, history does not model a biological structure of aging. Rather, Kaufmann relates, historical observation of cultures and civilizations present themselvesin layers, which form upon themselves and correspond in such ways that perhaps move horizontally as opposed to Spengler's vertically interpreted based direction. There is some valid truth to Spengler's assessment, being a valuable study to take seriously and contemplatively, however, it is also a limited argument, that is if you can use the word \\"limited\\" pertaining to Spengler's detailed, unlimited and exhaustive writing.<br />While Spengler's influence of creativity in that of Goethe and Nietzsche are his most desirable qualities, yet his biological interpretation tends to loose the ambiguous nature of mysterium tremendum, the chaotic nature of Dionysus that is formed only within the values created by man. True, nihilism - the chaos of passions and relativism - the leveling of values, evolve from a once \\"becoming\\" nature, a nature of determined values and beliefs, yet the \\"id\\" or unconscious realm of man and his development thereof, cannot be scientifically explained, not by Freud, nor by Spengler, as life, awareness and sleepiness is never explanatory in conceptual terms and systemized from empirical observations of societal structures and formations.	2003-04-11
US	52783335	R2BOQKREW8IEBG	0874626110	444073090	Reason and Existenz: Five Lectures (Marquette Studies in Philosophy)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Gem of a Book	<BR>Jasper's book is one of those books that you are so impressed by you work to memorize and apply in all thinking processes. His discription of existentialism in one's chaotic center of concealed knowledge with how we perceive reality is essential and the foundation behind all thinking in philosophy, science and religion. <br />Jasper speaks of all thinking within a horizon that can be transcended. All horizons being within a horizon he names &quot;the encompassing,&quot; which can be seen in two modes, as all Being in itself, or as all Being within which we are. It is here within which we are, we perceive reality in three ways: by empirical existence, consciousness and spirit. In turn we use reason to formulate, objectify and create absolutes, yet at the same time we need to use our irrational concealed knowledge, that is, the dark ground and center, of all modes, the existenz, to allow our reason to be open and apart from mere intellectual indifference. All demarcations are relative, yet existenz without reason is unrelated to Transcendence. Each without the other loses the genuine continuity of Being, and therefore, the reliability ceases to be authentic.<br />Reason clarifies our existenz, while our existenz gives content to our reason. Jaspers also goes into the idea of communicating truth, the prioity and limits of ratonal thought and compares the ideas of Nietzsche and Kiergaard. The book is brilliant.	2003-04-09
US	52783335	R2K4ZV9BCGBTVE	0060675578	645102118	Liberating the Gospels: Reading the Bible with Jewish Eyes	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	Why Did The Gospel Writers Claim Such Unrealistic Events?	<BR>Why did Mark, Matthew, Luke and John describe Jesus as they did? Were they simply under such euphoric idealism that they ignored reality, inventing stories that defy physical reality, acting as deception? This is not the case. And since this is not the reason, then why such miraculous stories of those such as a transfiguration and temptations by the Devil in the desert? There is an amazing answer that was formulated from a series of attempts by various theologians, B.W. Bacon, Austin Farrer, later scrapped, until Michael Goulder's thesis and later, John Shelby Spong's continuation of Goulder's analysis. Yet this thesis is not widely accepted as of yet among the mainstream theological community. That is, the seeing of the Gospels through Jewish eyes. It is here that one is revealed the midrashic method of description that correlates the story of Jesus to conform with the Jewish calendar and subsequent Jewish festivals that are so intrinsically bound to liturgical readings read in Synagogues each Sabbath, covering each (originally lunar) year. In Spong's Book, Liberating the Gospels, a full analogy on this thesis is presented, along with much more earlier and detailed writings of Michael Goulder.<br /> It is an extremely enlightening look, an eye-opener, at why the Gospels were written and how they fit into the Jewish teaching and framework of liturgical life. It supports the fact that the stories were not literal, nor attempts to be so, but stories that repeat earlier ones in the Hebrew scriptures, acting as midrashic stories for liturgical purposes. John Shelby Spong is one of those writers that takes the mundane and brings it to life, in exciting vigor that forces one to think. A born writer.	2002-11-28
US	52783335	R176N83592AL5M	0877734496	368178753	Living in New Consciousness	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Dynamic, Meditative  on the Consciousness and Physics	Why is this book out of print? This book is a Gem. Here are Hugo Enomiya-Lassalles thoughts on the consciousness as Jesuit Priest and Zen Master from his both his vast experience and influences of Pierre Teilhard de Chardin's &quot;Omega Point,&quot; to the Christian Mystic Johannes Tauler on meditation, to the contemporary German thinker Jean Gebser's analysis on man's development of consciousness to the Indian spiritual leader Sri Aurobindo. Comparing mysticism, Zen and contemplative thinking with the physics of Karl Jaspers, Jean Gebser, Fritjof Capra (the Tao of Physics - 1975), and Karl Albrecht truly makes this book a masterpiece - all written in short, concise, non-exhaustive summaries. The copy I have was originally published by Shambhala publications.	2002-10-16
US	52783335	RMYQKNLWOQGGD	0671203231	224357917	Why I Am Not a Christian and Other Essays on Religion and Related Subjects	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Wonderful! Courageous!	The reader of this book who still maintains his or her Christian faith and simply laughs at the common sense written here is doing so out of fear. And in this life, it takes determination and the ability to leave the safety of our mental interior walls to transcend this fear as opposed to covering over it with religion and theism.This is not something that comes easy.There are many who need the big daddy cop in the sky for strength and courage, limited, but nevertheless, the crutch needed for support of survival. It is not all who can reduce their anxieties into objects of fear that can be transcended in courage. So not all are psychologically able to bear such non-philosophical and sound reasoning. <br />To quote Russell from the book,<br />\\"Religion is based, I think primarily and mainly upon fear. It is partly the terror of the unknown and partly, as I have said, the wish to feel that you have a kind of elder brother who will stand by you in all your troubles and disputes. Fear is the basis of the whole thing - fear of the mysterious, fear of defeat, fear of death. Fear is the parent of cruelty, and therefore it is no wonder if cruelty and religion have gone hand in hand. It is because fear is at the basis of those two things. In this world we can now begin a little to understand things, and a little to master them by help of science, which has forced its way step by step against the Christian religion, against the churches, and against the opposition of all the old precepts. Science can help us to get over this craven fear in which mankind has lived for so many generations. Science can teach us, and I think our own hearts can teach, no longer to invent allies in the sky, but rather to look to our own efforts here below to make this world a fit place to live in, instead of the sort of place that the churches in all these centuries have made it	2002-09-24
US	52783335	R153DI1DLXL2RV	0060675365	693359168	Why Christianity Must Change or Die: A Bishop Speaks to Believers In Exile	Books	5	10	14	N	Y	Free From Dead Christianity - A Blessing	Nobody writes quite like John Spong. Deep issues, to the point, non-exhaustive and user friendly. This book is an absolute GEM and favorite of mine, along with his 1992, &quot;Rescuing The Bible From Fundamentalism.&quot; It is a book for those who do not walk within their limited neurotic safety nets of fundamental meanings and allows entrance into the insecurity of real life, to see the Spirit behind the Letter, that is, the ambiguous paradox of truth, far beyond the subjective, limited, narrow and exclusive view of both theism and traditional Christianity. Spong speaks like many mystics of old, such as Meister Eckhart, but even so, much more direct and to the point, as he has no church hierarchy waiting on the side to assassinate him or his character for speaking out against theological formulas and literal definitions that put barriers and conditions on both love and God. Objective truth and Spirit is an experience and not an explanation, as all explanation acts as a pointer to truth but is never able to adequately articulate that beyond human terms. Spongs' outline of who Christ was and is, is far more meaningful than any church and biblical literalist attempts to define, as they do not even come close to Spong's open and yet subjective perspective in acknowledgement of the literalist's inability to ever obtain objectivism in God, Christ and the meaning of life itself. What Spong recognizes is the power behind all: Love, that is: Love, Life and Being. THIS BOOK SHOULD BE IN EVERY LIBRARY.	2002-08-21
US	52783335	RFLESIUQDW078	034078055X	248826614	Jung: A Beginner's Guide	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Life Enchancer, MInd Expander Book	I've read so much evangelical theology, branched out to mystical theology, then philosophy, to later, psychology. This has changed my life, as reading the great thoughts of others is the greatest virtue I have experienced. Yet with all this said, I have never read Jung. I picked up two Jung books, one an intense large volume of Jung's writings and am starting to embark in this journal. First reading Ruth Berry's &quot;Beginner's Guide to Jung,&quot; has been so rewarding, mind expanding, deserving of 5 stars, for taking many of the deep concepts and explaining them in user friendly terms, that is, to begin one's journey into the mind of Jung. Thank you Ruth Berry	2002-04-25
US	52783335	R8ID150P6EC4C	0385092199	836485979	Contemplative Prayer (Image Classics)	Books	5	30	34	N	Y	Comptemplative Prayer Is Found in Emptiness	<br />Thomas Merton, a great teacher of spiritual principles above and beyond religion and institutionalized group consciousness.<BR><BR>Merton became a Buddhist at the end of his journey. Not the Buddhist of religious philosophy but the Zen experience far beyond explanation,structure and preconceived verbal formulas with absolutely no objectification, including that of God.<br />Notice this quote and ask yourself, \\"Is this a description of the Christian contemplative or a Zen Master? Then again, the Zen ontological experience of say D.T. Suzuki can no doubt be likened to the Christian mystic, Meister Eckart.<br />\\"Comtemplative prayer comes only when we are able to \\"let go\\" of everything within us, to enter into \\"emptiness,\\" that is to let go of all desire to see, to know, to taste and to experience the presence of God. It is only then when we truly become able to experience his presence. It is neither the desire nor the refusal of desire that counts, but only that \\"desire\\" which is a form of \\"emptiness.\\" Not the false emptiness of simply \\"blacking out\\" our thoughts in systematic methods and techniques, where emptiness becomes a thing, but rather the true emptiness that is a no-thing, a nothing, which is total inclusivenss, able to trancend all things, and yet is immanent in all. For what seems to be emptiness in this case is pure being. Or at least a philosopher might so describe it, but to the Christian contemplative is it other than that. It is not this, not that. Whatever you say of it,it is other than what you say. The character of emptiness, at least for a Christian contemplative, is pure love, pure freedom, free of everything, not determined by any thing, or held down by any special relationship, but a pure unconditional, nonparitial, nonjudgemental, inclusive love. 5 stars do not do this book any justice.\\"	2002-03-25
US	52783335	R2IT5Q5RT9D0V7	0060675187	946877738	Rescuing the Bible from Fundamentalism: A Bishop Rethinks the Meaning of Scripture	Books	5	4	6	N	N	God Is An Experience, Not An Explanation	Imagine reading a book that tears the so called infallibility of the bible to shreds, yet increases your love and faith in God, the same God and the same Christ, yet apart from any literal interpretation of the Bible, apart from theism and first-century mentality. Spong's book is an absolutely wonderful, insightful, masterpiece yet at the same time, very shocking to the fundamentalist. Far from an exhaustive mind bending reference manual, Spong beautifully, and may I add quite accurately, exposes the meaning of fallibility and the meaning of being human. The fact that God simply cannot, nor ever, be captured in human terms, nor explained apart from the confinement of human language, culture, prejudice, social and political agendas, with the limitations of each era we live in, is a revelation that allows us to see the experience beyond, behind and between the explanations of men, the glimpses of spirit that can be obtained beyond the letter. Spong has joined the ranks of so many marvelous mystics, univeralists or unlabeled individuals that have gained the higher awareness to see beyond the limited and narrow minded fundamental view points to the universal life force, the vibration of unconditional love, that lives in each one of us, that of life, love and simply being. Five stars for this book.	2002-03-17
US	52783335	R2H29WG1S780ET	0061094943	577835309	Manifest Your Destiny: The Nine Spiritual Principles for Getting Everything You Want	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A Life Changing Book	Here is a book with the spiritual principles of the East the West, minus religion, that is, the private and mystical basics of knowing both God and self and the non-partial life force of unconditional love, without the obstacle of religious organizational teachings, sacrifices and subcultures. Deep and penetrating truths in a non-exhaustive type handbook make this writing both an extremely beneficial and attainable goal to achieve in spiritual growth and manifestation. My personal journey is from years of sincere fundamentalism to later skeptic, floundering back and forth in search for self and God. Then comes forms of humanism, universalism and mysticism, not religious insight, but the ability to increase awareness that God is not an external being but is within each one of us. It is with our personal development of higher consciousness that we can grow to increase our awareness, gaining the love and trust of ourselves and in turn, our love and connection to each other, our environment and God. And in this case, the power of the life force of unconditional love, God, that resides in each one of us. This book, for me, remains a life changing book, a book that I will continue to read over and over for years to come. A book of deep spiritual principles, explained in simple, user friendly terminology, without religious subculture attached, is one worth reading in more words than I can ever say.  Five stars times ten for this one.	2002-03-12
US	52783335	R2RTMABKZCX7VP	0201410397	684401116	Learning To Dance Inside: Getting To The Heart Of Meditation	Books	5	8	8	N	N	17 Years of Silence - Beyond External to Inner Comtemplation	Manifesting my thoughts, I found this book in a used book store. Like the late Trappist Monk, Thomas Merton, George Fowler has found after a 17 year vow of silence, devoted to contemplative meditation, that God lives in all. That fundamentalism and religion are the products of human fallibility, where as mysticism and universalism embrace both the ground of our being, the acceptance of God within and that of all life. Echoing the words of other non-theists, Fowler acknowledges God as the center of our being, Fowler explains the meaning of meditation and that of contemplation, how some people are born contemplators, while the rest of us must engage in meditation to achieve higher awareness. Excellent book from a man who has both experienced meditation and lived it.	2002-03-12
US	52783335	R1E13FPJWMLJ2F	0060665033	963303602	Reversed Thunder: The Revelation of John and the Praying Imagination	Books	5	38	42	N	Y	The Revelation of Jesus Christ is about Jesus Christ.	Simply the best book I have read on Revelation. Peterson's book is about about God, the person. The focus on revelation is about the revelation of Jesus Christ. So many people get interested in everything except God, loosing themselves in symbol hunting, last day prophecies, intrigue with numbers, speculating with frenzied imaginations on times and seasons, despite Jesus' severe stricture against it. (Acts 1:7) Our salvation, our focus, is on Christ. Our timing is the looking at our present, the silence within us, God's very presence living within ourselves. The timing and sense of urgency of God is not the same as living with the sense of hurry, as it is urgent for us to look inside ourselves, use our imagination with God's Spirit and discern the revelation of Jesus Christ in others through Him and in Him in ourselves.	2001-12-18
US	52783335	RXBV1TNPBB4K9	015665962X	281512448	No Man Is an Island (A Harvest Book)	Books	5	46	48	N	Y	Profound	&quot;No Man Is An Island&quot; can only be described as profound. There are many superb writings of spiritualiy, God and Christ. Thomas Merton's book is one that should not be passed up, it is absolutely profound for the interior solitude, the silence within, our silence where we find God's silence, who knows us and where we know Him. A book by a man of God for men of God, Merton goes far beyond religious organizational teachings and human thinking, to that of the spiritual life with God. I can only say, I have new found respect for the Catholic church, for Merton does not write in defense of her, but for God, men and charity, that go far beyond this life, existing now within us, and bring us to the real life we seek.	2001-12-17
US	52783335	RWEO7MK97I5K5	0679743685	927498097	God: A Biography	Books	5	2	3	N	N	An Image Allows Us To See Ourselves and Grow	Jack Miles takes on a framework that had also been introduced by Carl Jung, \\"the father of analytical thinking.\\" Man was made in God's Image. Unlike mainstream theology, Miles book forces thinking outside the box. Man being made in the image of God, Gods conversing with his reflective image. A perfect God, yet able to adjust, to grow? To move in a forward direction, never standing still, as being still represents stagnation. An honest assessment and neutral reading of the Hebrew Testament can see the personality of God take many changes. Is it possible for a perfect God to learn anything? Or is his reflective image purely for the glory of Him? Either case, the unanswered questions of God's seemingly harsh judgments contrasted with His loving kindness, mercy and later the quiet wisdom of the \\"ancient of days,\\" leaves the \\"mystery\\" of God in tact and remaining as \\"ways that are higher\\" than mans, far beyond his limited perceptions, yet at the same time made in Gods image, with degrees of spirituality and capability to relate to Him. Miles book is extraordinary and allows free thinking that anyone who loves God's Word and seeks His Spirit can use his own discernment.	2001-11-30
US	52783335	R2029OEWTI18MV	0802466966	956707326	Extreme Righteousness: Seeing Ourselves in the Pharisees	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Our Best Frie3nds, The Pharisees	Unlike the misconception of most, the Pharasees were rightreous people in many ways. They were rooted in the scriptures, and zealously seeked to both teach and walk in the law. They are strikingly almost identical with the many churches we have today. Some were harsh and fundamental, while others were merciful and flexible. But as history shows their love for being good at both the scriptures and life style led them to self righteouness, legalism, traditionalism an using God's words to both blind and bind them, the identical characteristics that can be clearly seen in many churches throughout the world. Our extenal human righteousness can surely take us away from the invisible, inner reality of a pure and intimate relatiohship with Christ. This book is one of the best books I have read on legalism and the formation of the fundamentalist way of thinking that happens to the most sincere and good people: ourselves. As a former fundamenalist, this book is an eye opener to the dynamics of legalism and one-sided thinking.	2001-08-28
US	52783335	R1OMA75CMNCGE8	0825425298	740529628	Strengthening the Pastor's Soul: Developing Personal Authenticity for Pastorial Effectiveness	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Internal Medicine	You don't have to be a Phillip Yancy or a Charles Swindol, a Max Lucado or a C.L. Lewis to write solid spirtual information that goes directly to the foundation of both building and maintaining a healthy, spiritual relationship with Christ and in turn pastoring others with this. This is a fine book with much valuable, practical and spiritual information, that does not fall into mere systematic theology and organizational directives, but goes inside to the internal sharpening and strengthening as an individual, which is the core of what makes a pastor effective and strong. My thanks to Mr. Ezell.	2001-07-29
US	52783335	R2SP3JMYN1O7XA	0310229952	629142129	Jesus the Pastor	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Jesus the Spirit Empowered Pastor	This book comes from a man with formal theological training, who then went through personal growth in Christ. First learning About God, to personally learning From God. Wonderful insight to the real meaning of Christianity, a Spirit empowered, personal and intimate relationship with Christ. Frye, personally has found the invisible realm of God, with the daily practice of disciplines to make room for God's Spirit to touch his life and bring him the compassion of Christ towards other men, with the only way possible, through God's Spirit and the faith and intimacy with God, that it requires. This is a book that remains within in evangelical thought in the and the framework of literal Biblical thought, yet goes the step further in seeing the spiritual principles behind the letter. Being one step closer towards seeing God outside of written words.	2001-07-28
