US	52783192	RJVN4MRZUBL8Y	0812532384	958552912	Orbital Resonance (Meme Wars)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The First of the "Meme Wars".	John Barnes assembles a vision of the future in the best tradition of true science fiction visionaries. <br /> <br />  What happens if society decides to experiment on itself by altering the fundamental manner in which it raises its children, with the intent of producing vastly smarter and more responsible youngsters capable of entering the workforce at an earlier age with adult-like attitudes and skill sets that would make a modern college graduate green with envy?  What happens to the adults upon whom the responsibility falls to raise the children in such a manner? <br /> <br />  Whatever does happen, it had better work, because the Earth is failing rapidly as a result of ecological warfare on an unheard of scale, with the biosphere's state swinging first one way, then another. <br /> <br />  Mankind needs new crews to man the great interplanetary transports that are hoped will be able to ship enough people off Earth and enough food back to keep everything from the brink of collapse, and the only way to get enough competent crew, crew who are willing to spend their lives in space and want to stay there, indeed, have every reason to stay there, are to raise them there, so that is their home from the beginning. <br /> <br />  And how do you get a crew like that quicker than the 25 to 30 years a typical top-flight astronaut takes to develop?  You take a new system of learning that completely revolutionizes the education process.  The technical results are impressive, but the social results are interesting, to say the least. <br /> <br />  The characters of the novel are the children of the experiment, and a few adults.  For the most part, it is a coming of age story told anew, for it is a coming of age to adulthood far earlier than any children in history.  It is told with bright-eyed clarity and absolute precision.  The author tells of pre-adolescence from the point of view of those going through it. <br /> <br />  The technology, its assumptions, and the societybuilt by the expediency of need, and its assumptions, all drive the combination of assertions that create the knitted whole that is Orbital Resonance. <br /> <br />  Those who are well-read enough to know of Alexi Panshin's book Rite of Passage (Nebula Award winner for best novel, 1969), will appreciate this book even more. <br /> <br />  Orbital Resonance was a Nebula Award nominee for best novel, 1992.	2005-02-05
US	52783192	R3HW89CKVA94ZN	0385286392	320809690	Mazes and Monsters	Books	1	9	16	N	N	Useless, Unfounded, Unknowledgeable, Claptrap	Wow, yet another attempt to scapegoat yet another subject.  When will people stop attempting to blame their problems on outside sources, when the blame for their personal problems rests squarely upon their shoulders, and nowhere else.<br />  When people go out and commit murder and blame it on the deity of their world famous relgion, do we hear any calls to ban that religion?  No.  That would be *ridiculous*.  So is everything written in this book from cover to cover.	2004-07-05
US	52783192	R175HK2J9WN3M2	1576466396	313390392	The Long Run: A Tale of the Continuing Time	Books	5	20	20	N	N	I don't give out 5-Star Ratings to just any book . . .	What good things can't be said about this book?  It is probably the single strongest cyberpunk novel ever written, with only Walter Jon Williams' Hardwired coming close.  The action rocks, the humor is dark, sardonic, and counter-authoritarian, just the way I like it.  The hero is strong but not unbeatable (if only his enemies could think like he did).<br />  The hero of the story, Trent, is now in his early twenties, and is a professional high-tech thief and con-man extraordinaire, living his life this way as a statement of principal (and a matter of necessity) against the authorities who used a nuclear weapon to kill his small collective family years before, and in the process, kill hundreds of thousands of bystanders and render millions more homeless.<br />  Trent is thrown from his life as a buccaneer among the underbelly of polite society (or so he sees himself) and is once again pitted against his family's old adversary.  The two play cat and mouse for the rest of the book, with Trent one step ahead of his opponent, and thus the title of the book, \\"The Long Run\\".<br />  I enjoyed reading every page of this book, I bought it long ago, in it's original paperback version.  I loaned it to a friend, never saw it again, and did not hesitate to buy it once more after an extensive search.  Now I have this version on order, and will consider that money well-spent, too.  I've read the whole novel six times, and will read it many more times in the future.<br />  Simply outstanding.	2003-07-10
US	52783192	RPHHUS85UTG3N	0345300998	120224688	The Quest for Saint Camber (Histories of King Kelson, Vol. 3)	Books	1	5	7	N	N	A great disappointment . . .	It's hard for me to be objective about this novel.  I grew up with the Deryni books, I read them over and over again, and the first six (Deryni Rising, Deryni Checkmate, High Deryni, Camber of Culdi, Saint Camber, and Camber the Heretic) represented one of my favorite fantasy novel sagas of the time, huge in scope, vast in the apparent stretch of time, richly detailed by an author who knew the historical period, ahhh, it was hard for me to find anything that could measure up.<br />I waited, with great anticipation, the arrival of the third trilogy, heavily advertised.  Bishop's Heir proved excellent and The Kings Justice was also quite interesting (and although I didn't know it, the seeds of my disatisfaction were sown here).<br />The Quest for Saint Camber, though.  The title implied so much, and I knew that this author, so brilliant so far, would never do anything trite, easily expected, or trivial.<br />However, from the get go, the novel led me down a path of anguish.  All the characters started going in odd directions, as if a great fleet had lost its commander, they stumbled around, failed to see things right in front of them, and then were surprised when they were bitten.  I felt sick to my stomach, literally.<br />I went through a short term depression over my disappointment with this book (at that age, my novels were all I had).  I will most certainly never read this novel again.  I wish it had never been published, much less that I had spent money on it.<br />Perhaps my expectations were too high, but then, eight previous novels had led those expectations to a high pinnacle . . . the fall hurt.	2000-11-13
US	52783192	R128CH7BE2VEYO	0345374819	34169302	The Reaver Road	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A developed portrayal of an original Fantasy religion.	What I remember most about this novel on first thought is that from the first pages a well developed and consistent religion dominates the novel.  The gods, their names, their histories, their interactions with the world,  and the impact of their actually existing is found in the flagstones the  novel is built on, and the characters are able to walk around on these  metaphorical flagstones with great confidence.<br />After religion, I found  the comedy of the novel, often based in light cynicism, to help lead me  down through the pages toward the more important parts of the novel.  Then,  the heroic style drama comes to the fore, with the main character and the  main supporting character getting into a lot of fairly serious trouble.   The problems facing them mount and mount, I was afraid the story would  literally cop-out at the end, but surprisingly, it doesn't and provides for  a satisfactory conclusion (something sorely missed in many  stories).<br />Although there is another novel based on the viewpoint  character, The Hunter's Haunt, it has nothing to do with The Reaver Road,  which is a self-contained novel.	2000-07-04
US	52783192	R2PX98RVN0W5Y	0553571621	742324531	The Widowmaker Unleashed (Widowmaker Series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An Action-Adventure Far Future Personal Space Opera	I started reading this book because it was part of Mike Resnick's general set of future history books including the razor hot Santiago and the triumph of storytelling, Ivory (go put this one in your shopping cart right  now if you're into serious dramatic SF).  I was not to be  disappointed.<br />In a way, The Widowmaker: Unleashed is a study in what it  means to be a famous gunmen in an age of mass media in a vast territory  where &quot;the law&quot; is only sparsely present and enforced on an  irregular basis.  As countless Westerns have shown, aging gunmen face death  at the hands of those looking to make their reputations.  However, being  the best, the Widowmaker will not go down without a fight, and having  walked through a hundred death traps unscathed in his younger days, he  intends to get through this one last challenge: how to survive his own  reputation and failing capabilities.<br />I started the book and within two  days I came to the last page after two late nights up until two in the  morning, the story really drives forward without tripping over itself in an  attempt to get to the end.<br />Definitely worth my money and time.	2000-06-21
US	52783192	R1H0KBO3ITVDM6	0441006973	332040900	Forever Free	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An interesting continuation in the Forever series.	The story picks up a while after the end of Forever War.  The characters are now firmly entrenched in a dead end life and want out.<br />The first third of the story is them getting out. The second third of the story is  what the encounter on the way. The last third of the story is, well, you'll  have to judge for yourself, but I was quite surprised at by the ending.   The main characters are shown that not only is everything they've ever  known wrong, but that the person who has been running the show all along  doesn't really understand what's going on, either.  In one sense, this can  be thought of as a metaphor for what an author might experience when a  story takes on a life of its own and does things that are beyond simple  writing controls.<br />Honestly, it gave me the feeling the author has more in  mind, as the book's ending didn't really feel like an ending so much as an  epiphany.<br />The Forever War was, really, an astounding novel.  Forever Free  may, as time passes, be seen in the same light.	2000-05-26
US	52783192	R31OANTYVWXCPV	031289077X	462677064	Candle (Meme Wars)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	An unusual Post Cyberpunk novel of the near future.	It's hard to easily categorize this novel, as it is certainly nothing ordinary or well known.  It is set in the same fictional milieu as Orbital Resonance and Kaleidoscope Century, and for those who have read those  novels, there is much to find that is familiar, everything about the  setting, but nothing about the Plot.  Orbital Resonance was a Coming of Age  story, Kaleidoscope Century was an Anti-Hero Cautionary story.  What does  that make Candle?    Candle is a story about personal control, internal and  external, and what it really means to be human in relation to whether a  person actually controls their own destiny, or has their destiny controlled  by others.  These are deep subjects, and this novel is neither as fast  paced as Kaleidoscope Century nor as sympathetic as Orbital Resonance.   Instead it tries to point out that a person is not really a person unless  they are themselves free of external control.  This is more and more  important in the real world as various elements of society vie to control the  minds of everyone they can in any way they can.    The book gets deeply into  the minds of the central character and to some degree his opponent as well.   It also showcases some of the effects of growing old out of a profession  and a lifetime of activities based on youth and vigor.    For fans of the  first two books, a variety of questions are resolved, but even larger ones  are raised.  I can't reveal more without revealing things that are left to  the end of the novel, but it raises questions based on things the other books  have speculated will happen in the future.    Overall, I felt the book was  excellent, but as I said, also quite different.	2000-04-01
US	52783192	R2BO5X5JKM0QY7	0812533461	621659799	Kaleidoscope Century	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A brilliant Post-Cyberpunk novel of the near future.	John Barnes writes a brilliant near future history with one of the nastiest anti-heroes I've ever seen as the central character.  No punches are pulled in this book as the main character eventually winds up doing just about every brazen criminal act possible, from rape, assassination, and casual murder to engaging in planetary ecological warfare (delivering  the weapons, of course, not developing them).<br />The concept of computer program viruses so intelligent that they can study other computer systems unknown to them, figure out how they work, reformat their virus to work on the new system and copy the virus into that foreign system for a takeover is made all the more chilling by the obvious corollary that the human mind is just another operating system to computer programs so awesomely sophisticated.  I honestly found this refreshing in the extreme, quite the opposite pole from panty-waisted Star Trek episodes where computers 300+ years from now are  frequently less sophisticated than the one I'm writing this review on.<br />In short, this book rocked!  I've read it three times already, and while I've  never grown to like the central character (he's a psycho killer who would make Hannibal Lechter sit up and blink), the setting and technological extrapolation combined with a plot that just won't quit brings me back time and again.	2000-03-31
US	52783192	R1GFVH9KAGI20A	0345314255	643750532	The Sword of Shannara	Books	4	17	25	N	N	An excellent work of Early High Fantasy	This book was one of the early blockbusters of the field.  In the late 70s it and the Thomas Covenant books paved the way for the increasing popularity of Fantasy through the 80s (further carried along by the Eddings books, and others).  For this alone the book deserves a place in the Fantasy hall of fame.    The story itself is one that has been told before (the journey of the hero), and the plot is not original, and while the twist at the end seemed original to me upon first reading, I can no longer say if truly was original, only that to me it was quite a surprise.  I liked the book and its successors in my early teens, and read them several times.    Unfortunately, one of the main claims about this book is that it plagiarizes another, specifically, The Lord of the Rings.  Hmmm.  Some of the claims insist there is point for point plot consistency with tLotR.  Hmmm.  Plagiarism is when one person takes the words of another and exactly copies them for their own use without attribution and/or permission.  There are no passages in the tSoS that exactly copy anything in tLotR.  Copying of a plot is not plagiarism, it is copying a plot.  It is not a good thing, but it is not plagiarism.  However, there are many plot dissimilarities between tLotR and tSoS, and so I do not believe they are plot copies of each other.  For one, there is no Saruman character falling in with the enemy on stage in this book (oh, yes, there is Brona, but he's not actually in tSoS, but existed in the milieu's early history, and that is not the same).  I would say the nature and character of the \\"Evil Force\\" in the two novels are entirely different (although this is not a plot point).  The device behind the destruction of the \\"Evil Force\\" survives in tSoS, but not tLotR.  One of the major plot elements of tLotR is \\"lost king returns to rightfully claim the throne,\\" story line with Aragorn.  This does not exist in tSoS.  Then there is the whole Shire issue at the end of tLotR where the hobbits must free their lands.  This does not exist in tSoS.  The transformation of Gandalf and his status in Middle Earth due to the battle with the balrog in Moria does not have an analog with Allanon in tSoS (not to mention that Gandalf is the spirit of a god in the body of a mortal and that Allanon really is a mortal, with mortal problems and mortal concerns, despite his sorcerous longevity and skills).  As for the presence of elves, dwarves and their various symbologies and mannerisms, that is not copying Tolkien; it's more like copying the same mythological histories that Tolkien himself copied from (and indeed many other Fantasy authors copy from).  If they did not copy from these myths, modern Fantasy would look and feel considerably different than it does today.  I personally cheer on such copying, as long as it is done well.    There are also many points that seem, on the face of it, to be copying, but on deeper analysis, are not.  Take both Frodo and Shea's injuries and difficulties at differing points in their respective books.  This may seem to be an exact plot copy.  In the considerable amount I've read, though, main characters are injured and put out of action and/or placed themselves and their friends in serious jeopardy so many times I can't count them.  It's as standard a feature of stories today in all fields that any one novel can't be called to special account for it without hitting them all equally.    From all this, the originality of tSoS may be called into question.  But then again, so can the originality of tLotR.  I say both novels are original and sterling works of Fantasy that have helped the entire field become what it is today.  Without them, nothing would have been the same.    I liked this book, and felt my money was well spent.	1999-12-02
US	52783192	R3VMXK7BTAE9FS	1558604537	222913447	Joe Celko's SQL Puzzles and Answers (The Morgan Kaufmann Series in Data Management Systems)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	An excellent mind bending collection of SQL problems	This book contains a set of problems to be solved using SQL, and the problems are such that they make the reader think of SQL and use it in a set based manner as opposed to mixing in procedural techniques.<br />A stellar  book for instruction is SQL, as not only do the problems teach about how to  solve SQL problems correctly, but many of the problems are quite difficult,  providing for major mind expanding opportunities.<br />Definitely worth the  money if you have an SQL package to attempt to solve the problems with.	1999-12-02
US	52783192	R905RY103PZP7	0312890176	219764161	Shadow & Claw: The First Half of 'The Book of the New Sun'	Books	3	9	21	N	N	4 Stars for the 1st book; 2 Stars for the 2nd Book	This book is an omnibus edition of The Shadow of the Torturer and The Claw of the Conciliator.<br />The setting is in the far distant future of Earth, perhaps several million years from now, and the world of the main character  is built over the ruins of many past ages.  Severian is an apprentice  torturer in a titanic and decaying capital city of a nation ruled by an  Autarch.<br />If one does not look too closely, the mood/atmosphere of the  first book is lush, well described, and full of really cool looking and  sounding settings, descriptions, and events.  The city itself is almost  more interesting than Severian.  However, the author has chosen a slew of  words added to English from ancient Greek to slap into the ongoing  descriptions and dialogue.  This is clearly a mood generator, and I had to  sit next to an unabridged dictionary to look up these words, which I can't  imagine were ever in widespread use (I think they exist in English the same  way a lot of unused Latin words do).  The use of these non sequitur words  threw me right out of the story every time.<br />Overall, I rate The Shadow of  the Torturer as an excellent novel, just because of how cool the city is  and all the interesting things that happen in it.<br />However, the first book  ends somewhat on a cliffhanger.  The second book DOES NOT PICK UP after the  cliffhanger (yes, I shouted that).  The whole beginning of the second book  has the main character off somewhere substantially after the cliffhanger of  the first book, the roster of characters on center stage changes  completely, and no satisfactory explanation is given.<br />The mood of the  second book changes 100%.  Instead of the main character proceeding in a  clear and vital direction, the whole second book seems to wander aimlessly,  the purpose given to Severian in the first book is paid only scant  attention as he goes through a series of highly contrived  &quot;story-necessary&quot; encounters mixed up with some totally random  encounters thrown in for the sole purpose of distracting the reader from  what is (or should I say, what isn't) going on.<br />Let me explain more  fully.  Severian is in trouble in the first book, and he is ordered to  travel to a city in the far north to avoid a scandal.  Quite a bit of the  first book is him getting out of the capital city (it's a big city).  All  through this book, there is the clear understanding that Severian is  leaving in order to go to the city in the north.  However, the moment he is  outside the capital city, the reader begins to discover many curious facts.   First, the clarity of purpose ever present in the first book is tossed out  the window.  Second, although the Autarchy is currently at war with a  nameless opponent in the north (the city Severian is going to is close to  the front), and a fully military campaign is underway, there don't seem to  be any roads.  In fact, almost the whole journey through the second book is  conducted through raw wilderness he traverses with only great difficulty.   There is almost no civilization AT ALL between the capital city and the  city in the north.  It's pretty clear that air travel is not a normal mode  of transport, and is not used to travel to the northern city.  This type of  blatantly ridiculous world building error goes on and on.  The author  thinks: Hmm, I need a city in the south and a city in the north and I need  a big wilderness in-between so the characters can have this big difficult  journey.  Hmm.  Right.  Whatever.<br />I liked the Shadow of the Torturer  enough that I didn't mind having bought the whole book, but I'll tell you  that it took me no less than 3 years to plow through Claw of the  Conciliator in stages (I kept putting the book down, and there was very  little reason to pick it back up again).  It was that incredibly  unbelievable, frustrating, and just plain boring.	1999-11-25
US	52783192	RUUBPKKSSBCAG	0553264532	377935420	To the Stars	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A slightly above average Science Fiction novel	To The Stars is an excellent omnibus colleciton of Homeworld, Wheelworld, and Starworld.<br />Homeworld is a novel of a single man's personal discovery that the world he has always lived in is a disgusting lie, and his decision  that he cannot continue living in that lie, that he must actively fight to  change it, and the awful consequences of his decision.<br />Wheelworld is the  delivery of those consquences onto the back of the main  character.<br />Starworld is the culmination of the plots of the first two  novels.<br />Homeworld and Wheelworld were written in the early 80s, and this  shows quite clearly.  However, this novel is in very little way  &quot;dated&quot; in its technological descriptions.  What I especially  like is the extensive descriptions of the possibilities of surveillence  technology, many of which have become widely accetped as either actual  technologies or things that are likely to exist in the future.  Definitely  an idea taken to it's logical extreme.  The main character is caught  several times by his own inability to fully understand the scope and true  extent of serveillence tech.<br />Starworld was written later, and this shows.   The end of Wheelworld seems to have pointed future events in a clear  direction, but Starworld seems pick off where Wheelworld ends, and promptly  heads off in a new direction.  Not that this is wrong, but it is something  of  a surprise.<br />The author does not hesitate to use the main character's  viewpoint to convey a complete view of what is going on, and then yank that  out from under both the main character and the reader to show that in the  rest of the world, things beyond his control are going on, most of which  are not to his benefit.  How to phrase this better?  The main character is  a brilliant electronic engineer, but in his attempts to play revolutionary,  he simply cannot--by professional training or sheer intelligence--compete  with or beat the security professionals who are tracking him.This is  something I like a great deal, that other people in positions of importance  in the universe are clearly shown as competent experts in their field,  capable of doing their jobs and not be flim flammed by some johnny come  lately.<br />Overall, I liked this book, and the money I spent on it was well  worth it.	1999-11-24
US	52783192	RRDSZM0DVLET7	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	3	0	0	N	N	An excellent light contemporary fantasy.	Although deliberately mis-marketed as a children's book, this light contemporary fantasy breaks many frontiers by appealing to such a wide audience.<br />The scope of the story is limited to the life of one young  Harry Potter, whose early life was shaped by events beyond his control to  such a degree that almost everyone in the world around him has some  preconceived idea or notion about him as a person.  Harry's life is  burdened by both this and by many other factors.<br />The book's themes move  through many traditions, well drawn and illuminated, including: child  versus adult, child versus child, and child versus himself.<br />Harry is  pitted against adults who hate him for things his parents did; adults whom  he might trust, but is not sure of; against other children jealous of a  status they view he does not deserve (but which, of course, he did not  acquire through deliberate action); and finally against his own fears and  lack of self-confidence.<br />There are many elements of classic mystery woven  in as well, and indeed, a mystery is the central point around which the  novel revolves.<br />All of this is combined into a single whole carries the  story forward quite nicely.<br />I first became interested in the books when  60 Minutes did a segment on them and the author.  Never before had one  author had three books on the NYT Hardcover Bestseller list all at once,  much less numbers 1, 2, and 3 at the same time, much less all  &quot;children's&quot; books.<br />To say the least, I decided that there was  something much more than a simple children's book behind this success  story.<br />I was right.<br />I finished the book quickly and immediately  purchased and read the next two.  The next book is slightly better, and the  third is much better.  My money was well spent here.	1999-10-21
US	52783192	R3653FMNLS0AT	1565041925	696626794	2: Von Bek (Tr) *OP (The Eternal Champion)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The War Hound and the World's Pain, book 1 of this omnibus.	I would rank War Hound and the World's Pain among Moorcock's top 5 (along with The Quest for Tanelorn, Stormbringer, The King of Swords, etc.).<br />The book was, alone, worth the price of the omnibus.<br />The atmosphere of the  book, though, shows it's authorship in the 60's, and it's style of writing  is also of that era.  And while this is not in any way bad to me, I have  run into a few who dislike all non-modern styles.  For me, this was good,  because it evoked feelings of my first reads of Elric and Corum, taking me  back to faraway days.	1999-06-04
US	52783192	R3F0D43FJXQW18	0441005969	950318092	Riddle-Master	Books	4	11	11	N	N	This is one of the Classics of the field.	From its book-club selection omnibus volume title, these three books are commonly called \\"The Riddle of the Stars\\".<br />Written sometime in the late 70s or early 80s, these books easily ranked with the leaders of  the time, easily beating out the Shanara books and many others.<br />I've read  the series many times since I found them over a decade ago, including just  last year.  I've never regreted spending my money on them, and since  they're pretty much no longer available, buying this book is the new  reader's best choice.<br />The story is about the down to earth and simple  ruler of a backwater land of pigfarmers, Hed.  The Prince of Hed, Morgan,  has quite an unusual talent for Riddles, and three stars emblazoned on his  forehead from birth (those stars cause him all sorts of problems).<br />Riddles in  these books are not of the common puzzle variety.  They are complex tales  about events in the past that have no clear answer, like murders and other  mysteries.  Because riddle crafting is an ongoing tradition, many riddles do have answers, invented or discovered by the Riddle Masters of the past; however the answers to those riddle may not have been widely  desiminated, or may only be known to a single person.  In a competition  between two people over riddles, it is perfectly legal to ask your opponent  to answer a riddle you know only you have the answer to.  This isn't a  problem most of the time, unless the competition you're in happens to hold  your life in the balance.  This view of riddles is unique in my reading  experience, and quite enjoyable.<br />The magic system of these books is also  excellent.<br />Other people here have already commented on the intense  characterizations of the novels, so I'll avoid a repeat.<br />I will note the one drawback of the series.  The map is not particularly detailed  (thankfully, it has a map, many modern Fantasies do not).  The map is also clearly attached to a greater continent, and of course the seaways are open.  However, nothing is ever mentioned of lands beyond those on the map.   It seems almost like the map and the lands it depicts really exist in a  small pocket dimension.  However, this is a common flaw in many Fantasy  novels, and should not disuade anyone from reading them.<br />Get these books.   Read them.  If you haven't, you can't call yourself well-read in Fantasy.	1999-03-22
US	52783192	R7U1L1VFP1FIX	1565925246	386908856	Learning Word Programming: Creating Word Macros and Beyond	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The best book on Word VBA available.	There are only two specific commercial books available on programming in Word 97, and this one is the best.<br />For those who don't know the VBA development environment, there are a couple of chapters to get you up to  speed (or to provide reminders to those who've been away for awhile).<br />For  those who don't know the basic VB language, four chapters summarize the  core of the language (obviously, only the main statements are covered).   However, since many of the examples are stated in terms of VBA, instead of  plain VB, these chapters are still useful.<br />Then in chapter 9, the real  book gets underway.<br />Chapter 9: Object Models<br />Chapter 10: The Word  Object Model<br />Chapter 11: The Application Object<br />Chapter 12: The  Document Object<br />Chapter 13: The Section and HeaderFooter  Objects<br />Chapter 14: The Range and Selection Objects<br />Chapter 15: The  Find and Replace Objects<br />Chapter 16: The Table Object<br />Chapter 17: The  List Object<br />Chapter 18: Shortcut Key Bindings<br />Chapter 19: Built-in  Dialog Opetions<br />Chapter 20: Custom Dialog Boxes<br />Chapter 21: Menus and  Toolbars.<br />The coverage by object, especially to someone who doesn't know  the object model, is invaluable.  Even if you already know the model, since  most of what gets done in Word gets done via an object, finding out how to  do something with this book is easy.  I opened the book up to chapter 14  and started reading, and immediately learned what the Range and Selection  objects were and what they were for.<br />Most books treat the objects and the  object model as an aside, something that just happens to be there (and oh,  gee, I hope you understand how they all fit together and what they do).   Not so with this book.  The objects of the model and what to do with them  are at the core of the book.	1999-02-25
US	52783192	R2BX60JAPHJRT2	1555443818	736414466	SAS Language: Reference, Version 6	Books	1	12	14	N	N	Exhaustive, layed out in order, but very poorly done.	This book covers the whole of the SAS language up to about 6.06.  While the core of the language is presented, and that information is presented in a fairly logical order, you'll have to keep in mind that since SAS seems to  have been invented by people who were trying to do something different than  anyone else in the industry had ever done, that there is nothing to relate  any of the information to anything in any other programming  language.<br />Although it says reference on the cover, it is about half  reference.  The other half covers a lot about the Rules of the SAS Language  (which you will need to know to get anything done, or even have an idea of  how to do it), and other SAS-unique concepts (and there are so many).<br />The  index is almost useless.  You will need to know SAS and everything it can  do before it is useful (SAS almost always has its own command-name for any  programming operation, and the index contains only those names; hardly a  single mention of generic programming tasks or needs and where to find SAS  statements that fulfil those needs).<br />The price of almost $50 is steep,  but despite the poor nature of the book, you will still need this book if  you are serious about SAS because even though it won't help you figure out  what SAS command to use, when you do find out what that command is (any  command not in one of the extensive array of sebsequent version updates),  this book does provide a complete syntax, which can be the only peace of  useful information.<br />It has been my experience that all SAS Institute  documentation and all commercial documenation tends to explain things from  the viewpoint of a SAS programmer, that is, someone who programs using SAS  concepts and methods.  This makes all such documentation difficult to  impossible to understand to people who do not think in the &quot;net&quot;  of the SAS &quot;way&quot; of programming.  Having a heavy lean toward  statistical analysis doesn't help, either (large portionsof SAS  functionality are obscure and useless if you don't have advanced  statistical understanding).	1999-02-11
US	52783192	R1DA12QXA4GJVI	0812505182	465915454	The Magic of Recluce (Recluce series, Book 1)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	An killer novel with an (apparently) great magic system.	I've read this book three times, and liked it every time.  It's worth the money and the time it takes to read.<br />This is the first novel (but not the first in the timeline) of a whole line of Recluce books. Don't bother with  the rest of them because after this one the author completely hacks up the  magic system to the point where it's obvious that anyone who uses it is an  irresponsible moron who is literally endangering the safety of the world.  This is because magic is divided into light and dark, and any use of either  one causes the other to become stronger.  Therefore over-using the good  (dark/order) side of magic causes a huge buildup of the bad (light/chaos)  side of magic, in turn causing wicked backlashes that can disrupt the  tectonic strata of the world; followed by a massive long-term decline in  the presence of magic (so much that people who depend on it for life  extension up and die for its lack).  Gee, like using this stuff is smart.   Not!	1999-01-12
US	52783192	R6EV10ZKWU2CZ	1888051027	180378629	Customer Specific Marketing	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An excellent book, a complete look at loyalty marketing.	The one thing this book cannot do for you is make top management, from the CEO to the regional and divisional managers, get on board your program.  Unless someone lays down the line, and goes with the book's recommendation  to transform the company to work along loyalty marketing lines, the only  thing that will come out of such a hobbled frequent shopper program is an  expensive toy.<br />Been there, done that.<br />You need three things to make  your FSP system work, total management dedication,  the people who can put  together a hardware/software combination that is actually functional enough  to do the job, and the recommendations of this book.	1998-10-28
US	52783192	RM0OZRI6G4N7S	0911625372	262179345	Structured Ans Cobol, Part 1: A Course for Novices Using a Subset of 1974 and 1985 Ans Cobol (Pt. 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Update to a previous review	A few extras I forgot to note in my original review.<br />One page 123, where  the book starts to talk about 88 level data items (Condition Names), it's  time to go find a different reference.  Any other reference.  This book  botches the explanation.  I had trouble with it, the friend I mentioned had  trouble with it (and I did not warn him about it in advance). It's the only  major problem with the book.<br />This book has not been revised since initial  publication, and contains no information on the 1989 Addendum to the COBOL  Standard (which is mostly Intrinsic Functions), and no information looking  at the upcoming release of the new COBOL Standard.	1998-10-26
US	52783192	R2QNF62GJWSPY8	0672312549	955084157	Cobol Unleashed	Books	4	8	11	N	N	A great reference on areas of COBOL rarely covered.	Pay attention to where this books says it does not teach  programming.<br />_ALL_ code examples assume familiarity with COBOL and  familiarity with programming.  Most are simply free-form code examples  designed to inform, not actual programs.<br />As for a reference, if this book  missed it, I didn't notice.  It's already helped me on a number of issues,  including covering why SECTIONs exist (something not even my compiler  vendor manuals tackle, and I've certainly never seen anywhere else).<br />I've  seen a few typos, but they were obvious (again, you need to be a programmer  already to spot this stuff).<br />The CD-ROM has several demo compilers and  the code examples from the book.  I haven't used any of them, but have read  about others liking them.<br />Overall, a good book and a great buy.	1998-10-26
US	52783192	R2TIXBMQ8BRO4G	0345321804	535752410	Darwath Trilogy-3 Vol. (Boxed)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A great fantasy with a show stopper ending	Published in the early eighties, this series is easily one of the classics  of the field.    Barbara Hambly practices the martial arts, and this lends  considerable reality to her depictions of combat.    The magic system  rocks.    The primary plot, two ordinary people in our real life world are  contacted by someone in the fantasy world and are drawn into the action via  interdimensional travel, while still fresh when these books came out, has  been duplicated so often in so many ways since then, that some people might  feel it is just one more story in a sub-genre of fantasy that is already  overloaded.  Well, I say, go and read these books.	1998-10-26
US	52783192	R13NECU0R36532	0553576569	258312934	Talion: Revenant	Books	4	0	1	N	N	This is an excellent fantasy novel overall	There is plenty to keep you going here.  Detailed history that clearly  flows into the present.  Interwoven national relationships.  Relatively  original concepts in magic.<br />There is a single viewpoint character, this  lends enormous strength to the book.<br />The one drawback was the alternating  progression of the story by chapter.  That is to say, chapter 1 begins with  the character in the &quot;here and now&quot; of the story, chapter 2 jumps  back to the beginning of the character's history, chapter 3 picks up where  chapter 1 leaves off, chapter 4 picks up where chapter 2 left off, etc.   Even chapters tell the story from the point where the main character joins  up with what amounts to being a international police force (fantasy style),  and continues with this until the last even chapter of the book.  Chapter 1  actually begins where the last even chapter of the book leaves off  (almost).  The odd chapters tell the rest of the tale from there.  I'm not  sure what was gained by this, because as soon as I started chapter 3, I  skipped ahead and discovered what I just related here.  I then read all the even chapters, and all the odd chapters.  It was quite a page turner.  I found the sequential presentation of the story that I artificially created  by my odd read of the book to be entertaining.  I personally have a tough time being yanked back and forth in time and space in a story, so reading  it the first way wasn't really an alternative.<br />I felt my money was well  spent, and I'll continue to buy and read this author's novels; and will  continue to recommend them to others.	1998-10-09
US	52783192	R3MG0P6R9ZT28E	0911625852	992748069	MVS JCL (2nd Edition)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A great book for the beginner, and a great basic reference.	This book is great, mostly because the text does not assume you know anything about computers, mainframes, or JCL; and groups the lessons on these subjects in order, so if you already know about a level of information, you can skip it and go on without loss.<br />The book explains everything it touches on in great detail, but doesn't explain all the obscure and rarely used options (a great benefit when learning an new language).<br />A section is included on the basic MVS utilities, but this is the one skimpy section of the book.  Some of the utilities are underexplained (although the basics are fairly clear).<br />I never regreted the money I spent on this book, and I recommend it even today to people I meet who want to learn JCL (or even just more about the basic MVS environment).	1998-08-04
US	52783192	R15D8WX67I177G	0345341058	366053076	Return of Nathan Brazil (Book 4 of the Well of Souls)	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Book four of the Saga of the Well World	As a general warning, this is the fourth book of a tightly knit series.  While the book is written to stand on its own, greater enjoyment can be found be reading the previous three novels: Midnight at the Well of Soul, Exiles at the Well of Souls, and Quest for the Well of Souls; before reading this one.    This book begins back at the same interstellar community where the previous novels begin (it's know as the Comworlds, or the Com for short).  An alien race has arrived from another galaxy and is bent on conquest of ours, and since they're more advanced than the Com, they're winning.    Mavra Chang, survivor of the War of the Well World, has just returned to the Comworlds.    The true reality of the situation is far grimmer than they realize, and when they do catch up with Brazil, they regret it.    Overall, the series really starts to pick up steam here, and that after admitting that the previous novels are already good to begin with.    Vol. 1: Midnight at the Well of Souls  Vol. 2: Exiles at the Well of Souls (Part 1: War of the Well World)  Vol. 3: Quest for the Well of Souls (Part 2: War of the Well World)  Vol. 4: The Return of Nathan Brazil  Vol. 5: Twilight at the Well of Souls	1998-06-03
US	52783192	R3U1D2D5T0T0Q2	0345344081	154429401	Twilight at the Well of Souls (Saga of the Well World)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Book 5: Capstone of a classic series.	The myriad stories begun throughout the series are brought together here, as plot-threads you didn't know existed are revealed and then woven together (and none of them are dissatisfying cheap tricks, either).  Many questions are answered, but not all of them.    The scope of the finish here is the biggest I can remember, and the poignacy of the end is distinct from the triumph or anti-climax at the end of many other major science fiction tales.    I've read this entire series four or five times completely, and it was worth it every time.    Vol. 1: Midnight at the Well of Souls  Vol. 2: Exiles at the Well of Souls (Part 1: War of the Well World)  Vol. 3: Quest for the Well of Souls (Part 2: War of the Well World)  Vol. 4: The Return of Nathan Brazil  Vol. 5: Twilight at the Well of Souls	1998-06-03
US	52783192	R1CNLRRA861OQP	0345324501	171518187	Quest for the Well of Souls	Books	4	13	17	N	N	The third book in the Saga of the Well World	This is a direct continuation of events begun in the second book of this series, Exiles at the Well of Souls.  These two books, together, are called the War of the Well World.    It is difficult to describe the events of this book without substantially spoiling much of Exiles.    Essentially, the second phase of the war gets under way, and I can't say any more than that.    As the author puts it in his note in both books, \\"In an ideal world, Exiles should be read first.\\"    If you have read Exiles, and found it a good book, this one is a must (it's really the second half).    Vol. 1: Midnight at the Well of Souls  Vol. 2: Exiles at the Well of Souls (Part 1: War of the Well World)  Vol. 3: Quest for the Well of Souls (Part 2: War of the Well World)  Vol. 4: The Return of Nathan Brazil  Vol. 5: Twilight at the Well of Souls	1998-06-03
US	52783192	R1539HYR2ZDZHA	0345324455	770664125	Midnight at the Well of Souls	Books	4	19	20	N	N	This is the book that really launched Chalker	Jack Chalker, through this book, and the other books, tells one of the great classics in modern soft science fiction.  The beginning of a five book series, Midnight tells of a man named Nathan Brazil, and how he and his strange life fit into the center of the universe and its history.    Nathan is a typically tough-as-nails starship captain who is carried through events set off by his own interference with a criminal syndicate, but it's where he goes that defines the entire series: The Well World.    The Well World is the generator of all modern reality.  Billions of years in the past, a race of beings developed the ultimate in technology, computers that could read their minds, and then with matter/energy transforming systems would translate those thoughts, whatever they were, into reality.  After a long time, they did everything, and became bored.  They wondered if that could really be all there was to life, but could envision no more than they had, and decided that somehow they had reached an evolutionary dead end because to them it was obvious that there _had_ to be more to life.  Any other decision would have meant that their lives had been meaningless.  They took their computer-reality technology and built a computer the size of a planet, one so large that it could generate an entire universe.  Upon its surface were hexagonal zones of a few thousand square kilometers [I can't remember the exact size], each one an enviromental enclousure where the ancient race designed and tested for viability every possible intelligent race they could think of.  The designs of those that proved suitable were stored away, and the enclosure would be used again and again.  Eventually they used the planet to create an entirely new universe, overlaying the original one (which had far fewer worlds and stars).  The early evolution of the universe was forced through at incredible speed until most of the intelligent species emerged, and then, well, it's not exactly clear.  The race thatdid all of it vanished, and although a variety of ideas about what happened to them were put forward in the book, none of them were convincing.    Meanwhile, in current time on The Well World, the last set of races to be tested out in the enclosures were left to their own devices.  They formed odd societies and inter-society relations, given that each enclosure was often radically different from its neighbors.    Onto The Well World comes Nathan Brazil, and the passengers of his tramp freighter.  Strange things begin to happen on The Well (short for The Well World).  They are all told that they will be put through another gate, this one teleporting them to one of the enclosures, where they will be transformed into one of the native intelligent species.    And with that simple act, Chaos breaks out across The Well.    That sounded like the whole story, didn't it?  Trust me, that's just the backfill, and spoils very little that isn't told right at the beginning of the book.  And _then_ there are the next four books.    Enjoy.    Vol. 1: Midnight at the Well of Souls  Vol. 2: Exiles at the Well of Souls (Part 1: War of the Well World)  Vol. 3: Quest for the Well of Souls (Part 2: War of the Well World)  Vol. 4: The Return of Nathan Brazil  Vol. 5: Twilight at the Well of Souls	1998-06-02
US	52783192	RYAND70ATMHCA	0345277015	80533029	Exiles at the Well of Souls	Books	4	22	23	N	N	Sequel to Midnight at the Well of Souls	A continuation of the story started in Midnight at the Well of Souls, Exiles is the first of a two part subset within the five book series, and is paired with its own sequel, Quest for the Well of Souls; together they are called \\"The War of the Well World\\".    This story begins with a new character as the focal point of the story.  Mavra Chang.  Mavra is a sort of freelance thief, and she's been hired to steal something (or so she thinks).    It turns out that a physicist laboring away at his own vision of cosmology rediscovers the basics of the technology of the universe's parent race, the ancients who created The Well World (see my review under Midnight at the Well of Souls).  Unfortunately, one of his underlings decides to take the awesome power for his own, and with it, blackmail the interstellar community.  The underling invites an assortment of powerful people to a demonstration of the technology, and into this comes Mavra Chang.  She's been sent by a third party who does not wish to get too close to what appears to be a trap.    Something goes wrong, though, and the entire experiment (computer and reality generator built into an asteriod) winds up accidentally connecting itself to The Well World computer, and teleports itself and all aboard to The Well.  What's worse, it cannot disengage the computer link at all.  Faced with eventual starvation, the passengers disembark in a pair of shuttles, bound for the surface of The Well World.    And when they land, suddenly, since the creation of the modern universe, there is now a way for those living on The Well to leave (The Well has a variety of programming built in that prevents the natives from ever building on their own any machine or system that might escape the gravity of The Well itself).    This novel deals with what happens to the passengers after they land, and what happens to them in their intial encounters, and what new races they are transformed into.    Vol. 1: Midnight at the Well of Souls  Vol. 2: Exiles at the Well of Souls (Part 1: War of the Well World)  Vol. 3: Quest for the Well of Souls (Part 2: War of the Well World)  Vol. 4: The Return of Nathan Brazil  Vol. 5: Twilight at the Well of Souls	1998-06-02
US	52783192	R3F0VKFPW8P1ZM	0399106200	348075610	Past Through Tomorrow: "Future History" Stories	Books	5	2	2	N	N	This book is the center point of Heinlein's Future History	I'm surprised there are only two other reviews on this book.  It is a collection of stories that forms the backbone of Heinlein's primary Future History.  Although the majority of the stories are quite old (I can't remember for sure, but I think none came out after the sixties, and most are from the forties and fifties), they form, together, one of the first coherent glimpses of the power of Science Fiction to detail a potential future, one that can show us what might happen, for good or for ill, and entertain us along the way.<br />I've read this book about eight times from cover to cover, so often that I don't read it any more because it's burned into my mind.	1998-05-30
US	52783192	R3AOCKZTKY2ZK1	0812519248	382710099	Voice of the Whirlwind	Books	5	0	1	N	N	An advance mixture of far ranging SF and Cyberpunk	When I read this book, I could find nothing that related it to Hardwired in any way.  That said, this is still a fantastic novel.  In the first pages, a certain well-known story cliche is introduced.  Don't let it throw you, keep reading, you won't regret it.  Mr. Williams stages an intricately layered plot, just as soon as you think everything is wrapped up, a completely unexpected and totally believable new layer is revealed.  I read it in a single day.	1998-05-29
US	52783192	R3OAJDQQCXSOEK	0812514092	874235998	Aristoi	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Nanotechnology at the high end of its development	Come and read about an almost-paradise several thousand years in the future, one in which the concepts of VR and Nanotech are developed by Mr. Williams to a logical extreme given the huge passage of time.  On the character/story side, human nature is examined at its best and worst; two truly altruistic viewpoints go to war, one of them one the side of maintaining paradise, and the other on the side of destroying it.  There wasn't anything here I wasn't willing to believe in.  Although a complete book, Mr. Williams cleverly leaves the door open for future novels.  Somehow, though, I doubt there will ever be one.  I hope I'm wrong.  This book definitely represents one of the best books I've ever read on these subjects.	1998-05-29
US	52783192	RMRQS48DJEUEL	0553281445	142416721	The Long Run	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This is a fantastic turn on old cyberpunk ideas.	This book was good enough for me to read six times since I found it in 1993.  It completely tramples over most books in this field, only Walter Jon Williams book, Hardwired, is its equal.  The book has excellent pacing and avoids an attempt to drag anything out (the bane of many contemporary F&amp;SF novels).  There are no major plot flaws.  I liked the main character, everything he did seemed completely reasonable.  The other characters were a little less well developed, but the action and plotting were so well developed that I didn't really care.  As the other reviewers have mentioned, this is one book in a huge series, though most of the books do not exist yet.  This shows.  The previous book, Emerald Eyes is practicaly impossible to find.  It took me two years to find this book.  The next book, The Last Dancer, is not nearly as good as this book, but it much easier to get.	1998-03-12
