US	52798402	R3IWPCV42KKN33	1590593871	202384555	Oracle Insights: Tales of the Oak Table	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	I want more books like this one!	I really don't know where I should begin writing this review to give the book a proper credit that it deserves. Hmm...FUN - I think that this word best describes this collection of essays (eleven prominent authors instead of more usual one or two, certainly helped a lot).  <br />Can't remember when was the last time that I read technical book that kept me reading and reading, and reading - simply because all essays were *fun* to read. To be clear, yes I'm an Oracle geek, but I don't think you have to be an expert to understand 'the point' in the majority of the book, on contrary, if you're by any chance an Oracle newbie you have an opportunity to learn from the true experts (from their work done on  the \\"projects from hell\\") and pick up some good habits and techniques to start your Oracle career (this book is not really about internals as much as it's about proper design and importance of understanding technology before using it - and using it to the full extent - you'll probably never again write DB agnostic applications, if this was your sin in the past :-).   <br />So, being an expert or not, I'm sure you'll get the true 'message' from this book that will stick with you for the rest of your life (of course experts will enjoy reading it slightly more, they'll finally learn, what AFIEDT.BUF is really all about ;-). <br />Finally, thank you guys for writing this book, and Mr. Mogens Noorgard (you lucky *****), thank you for \\"networking\\" Oak Table members together.  <br />Thank you for reading this review.	2005-05-01
US	52798402	R2LM35AJCKSX01	1590593294	451951408	The Definitive Guide to Plone	Books	5	17	18	N	Y	A "Definitive" guide, for sure!	My Plone adventure started a couple of months ago when I decided that it's time to migrate our internal techie website powered by Movable Type, to some more powerful, CMS kind of platform. Looked into several open-source CMS products, among all of them the official Plone site alone impressed me enough to stop the quest. I liked clean user interface, features, an excellent Windows installer and nevertheless the fact that it's built on top of the Zope which means I can use Python, my preferred programming language, to extend out of the box Plone functionality in the future.  <br /> <br />I started with Julie C. Meloni book \\"Plone Content Management Essentials\\" which is a great introduction type of the text, however it doesn't cover technical details or explain well what is really going on under the hood. Andy McKay's book is exactly what I needed to fill the gap in my understanding of Plone. I admit that I had some difficulties putting together all the technical pieces, mostly because Plone (Zope) is so different from web related packages that I dealt with them so far. Thanks to this book I learned a lot more than I really expected (maybe even wanted?)  at the beginning. Plone is definitely much more powerful and sophisticated package than I thought. If you're interested into some serious development or customization of your Plone powered site, you'll definitely need this book at hand in addition to official Zope Book. It covers all important topics that I can think off,  from simple to advance customizations, templating, scripting, workflow, security, administration...honestly I felt \\"lost\\" sometimes while trying to grasp the more advanced concepts, but this is more of the consequence of ignorance from my part on the subject than the author fault.  <br /> <br />Therefore, if you're a hobbyist, ignorant or simply not interested about technical details of the Plone, then Julie's book is probably all you'll need, otherwise I'm sure you'll find this book indispensable resource.  Thanks for reading this review!	2005-01-08
US	52798402	R19IXYCJJU8Z8G	0672326876	46091015	Plone Content Management Essentials	Books	4	35	35	N	Y	"Getting started..." kind of a book	I bought this book together with McKay \\"The Definitive Guide to Plone\\" and all I can say is that they fit together nicely.   <br />In the old days when software was delivered to you in a nice box with accompanying manuals, one of them was hopefully titled as \\"Getting started...\\", \\"Introduction to...\\" or \\"Quick guide to...\\".  Julie's \\"Plone Content Management Essentials\\" is by all means *that* kind of the book in a 'missing box' for Plone.  <br /> <br />As a complete Plone (Zope) newbie on my way to migrate some stuff from Movable Type intranet site, I needed quick, concise guide to get the general feeling about Plone features and the level of complexity involved (I already knew that Zope behind the Plone is a \\"beast\\" in it's own if compared to simple packages like MT) . With just 200+ pages this book helped me grasp the basic concepts behind the Plone CMS in a way, that I could build my prototype site in a few days. The chapters that I liked the most are chapter \\"4. Additional Plone Elements\\" describing Plone add-ons of immediate interest to me (CMFBoard, CMFPhotoAlbum and CMFWeblog)  and chapter's 5 and 6 on customizing plone and implementing custom skin. The only objection that I have about the book is Appendix A., imho it's completely useless attempt on introduction to python language (it would make more sense to just publish the links to python online resources). <br /> <br />Book is geared towards complete Plone newbie's, even non-techies will not be easily lost, thanks to step-by-step approach and numerous screenshots. Nevertheless, I would strongly recommend that you also consider McKay \\"The Definitive Guide to Plone\\" which is in my opinion the most complete book about Plone on the market (but you'll certainly need more than a few days to digest it). Thank you for reading this review!	2004-11-29
US	52798402	R9AT2Q030I2NK	1590593715	622825790	Foundations of Python Network Programming	Books	5	32	32	N	Y	A review by an accidental reader - the lucky one :-)	This title accidentally popped up while I was searching for some book covering web programming in Python; bookmarked the link and went on with my quest. Later on, I found what I was looking for (Python Web programming by New Riders) and  decided to go back and glimpsed over the table of contents of the book that I'm reviewing now, \\"Foundations of Python Network Programming\\". Wow, what a surprise, I was really impressed by the wide coverage on network programming done by the author (even had some doubts at the beginning that this can't be done in a book with less than five hundred pages). Nevertheless, ordered the book and now I'm half way through it (the other book mentioned will have to wait :-). I can hardly think of a major topic about network programming, that is not covered in it, at least in some amount. Considering, otherwise vast area and complexity of network programming, this certainly is a great achievement by the author and a true testimonial on efficiency of Python language. <br /> <br />Author has chosen a tutorial approach; quick introduction, example, commentary of the code, some more examples and comments, conclusion. No fluff and bluff.  On top of that technical reviewer has done a superb job, so far I didn't find any typos or non working code samples. Rare for a technical book nowadays but great for a change. <br /> <br />I'm more or less python newbie with little or no background on programming with TCP/IP socket interface, so the first few chapters that are dealing with client/server sockets are more or less new to me (at least I know where to look up first if the need to program on this level arise), chapters covering programming different net clients are more familiar to me, and of the most interest, since this kind of stuff is more likely to cross my path. I think that intermediate level pythonists with some background on network programming and good skills to search the web for more in depth articles/documentation will benefit reading this book the most. Not to say that your Python library should be without this title if you're newbie like me,  on contrary,  you'll be glad to have this kind of a book at hand when you'll need it - and believe me you'll, sooner or later - just don't expect from a single source of information to become instant network hacker.  <br />Highly recommended!	2004-10-20
US	52798402	R1BCCR8WRT7UOJ	0974071609	20446551	Oracle Database 10g New Features: Oracle10g Reference for Advanced Tuning & Administration (Oracle In-Focus series)	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Good reference on 10g New Features...after all!!	I was on my way to write more or less a negative review of this book, however I changed my mind and now I really think that this book is a *good* reference after all. Why? <br />First title on Oracle 10g new features that I read was Robert Freeman's book. With modest 200+ pages it's an excellent introductory kind of text and nothing more, it's far from being  considered as a reference (or complete) guide to 10g new features. On the other hand Mr. Ault, Liu and Tumma's book has from the very beginning the ambition to be a true REFERENCE, as complete as possible (they even write some short introduction about new bioinformatics features included in 10g!!). It is amazing how many information they managed to compile and present in detail, especially considering the timing - short beta cycle of 10g and obvious &#34;gold rush&#34; of the publisher (shame on you ;-). Sometimes their explanations are a little beat too verbose and tedious (repetitive) for my taste - sort the writing style that we're familiar in Oracle manuals.  <br />The worst thing about this book is the lack of proper technical editing. At first, I was convinced that this book was not edited at all, or that authors reviewed each other's chapters. Then I noticed Mike's comment in which he mentioned that someone from Oracle reviewed the book. Ahh...that explains everything, they barely cope with their own official manuals and now they're helping others ;-&#62;. How bad is it? Not as bad to bash it altogether....anyway, I saved some funny comments for the end of my review, they're made by the &#34;editor&#34; of the book (I guess?) and were left unchanged, ended in the final print...page 445: &#34;Not sure what you mean by example....Could you give a complete example here?&#34; or on page 447: &#34;Give a working example - LEVEL clause is missing and you should add parenthesis&#34;.	2004-09-21
US	52798402	R3AQ1AE3D3S7RH	0072229470	19629438	Oracle Database 10g New Features (Osborne ORACLE Press Series)	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	Salt and pepper	Since I possess Mr. Freeman's previous book (Oracle9i New Features) I pretty much knew what to expect from his new title, Oracle 10g New Features; concise explanations of major new Oracle features on two hundred-plus pages, with more or less clear examples and short comments. On top of that, I found a good commentary by Jonathan Lewis throughout the book - they (authors) really fit together, like salt (Robert) and pepper (Jonathan). Sure, some new features are great and some (at least) looks good on paper - now, at this point, you'll usually find Jonathan comment on the topic with his reservation and/or recommendation about the feature or concept. Well-done Jonathan! <br /> Is this book a complete guide to all Oracle10g new features? Of course not! Nevertheless, I'm afraid, that you don't have much of the choice either, since official new feature guide from Oracle is even skimpiness (on the other hand it's good for on-line searching, plus, it provides some information for developers that you'll not find in this book!). Don't know for any alternative book of the comparable size and topic at the time of writing this review.  <br /> It's true that a few times author &quot;shamelessly&quot; points out that the topic is out of the scope of the book and refer the reader to the Oracle documentation set. I don't take this as an excuse - it's by the 'design', you can't cover everything on 200+ pages. This book is not a tutorial, nor complete reference for *all* of the little tweaks coded in 10g - you'll have do dip in many other sources as well and on your own!  <br /> Who should read this book? If you're already familiar with Oracle 9i release hen this book is certainly a worthwhile investment, if you're searching for OCP 10g preparation guide, then continue searching, finally, if you're by some chance a complete Oracle newbie (DBA or developer) you probably already know by now that this is not the book to start with. Cheers! <br />	2004-07-28
US	52798402	R1449SPDT80CII	0072224738	608472079	Oracle9i Performance Tuning Tips & Techniques	Books	4	9	13	N	Y	More or less coplete coverage of Oracle tuning	I like two things in this book, first is an old photo of the &quot;Larry the Geek&quot; at the beginning of the book ;-) and second, a well balanced coverage of all the different tuning pieces of the mosaic known as Oracle tuning. <br />This book is a classic Oracle tuning book in a sense that Rich doesn't hesitate to write about ALL the important tuning pieces. Yes, he even recommend &quot;proactive&quot; monitoring of instance efficiency with various hit ratios as opposed to today popular mantra of focusing solely on wait event interface (reactive tuning, according to Niemiec). In my opinion the correct approach is really somewhere in between (the fact is that monitoring hit ratios alone actually doesn't guarantee proactive approach in all cases - your instance can crawl, while at the same time hit ratios are all green), this is why I appreciate author approach, he recognizes that many DBAs nowadays doesn't care much about hit ratios and instead focus completely on wait event interface but at the same time he points out that hit ratios should not be carelessly overlooked.<BR> <BR>However, no matter how complete this book appears to be, you should not rely solely on information from it, nor believe everything you read (for example, the definition of paging on page 648: &quot;....paging occurs when users not currently active are moved from memory to disk....&quot;, yeah right :-)<BR>I would recommend that you combine information from this book with some other good resources, like the &quot;Oracle Performance Tuning 101&quot; (even if it's a little bit outdated) or a recent book from Thomas Kyte.<br />One final question to the Rich (if you're reading this review); &quot;No offence, but what have you thinking about, when you included spool of the results from some queries in appendixes B and C (over 120 pages!) ? What's next, spool of select * from dba_objects? Total waste of paper! Please, don't do that in the next edition, think about all those saved trees (hmm... perhaps a little forest!), and let us spool the results for ourselves, after all, we all have access to SQL*Plus ;-).	2004-07-11
US	52798402	R128RG0H4HQFBO	0596003064	127330918	High Performance MySQL	Books	5	62	63	N	Y	Well explained MySQL concepts	As an Oracle DBA, I was looking for a book that can help me better understand MySQL  core concepts and differences compared to my primary working platform. I was looking for a book with the flavor of Oracle Concepts Manual. I partially read official MySQL reference manual but didn't find (get?) all the answers (nor I really enjoyed reading it - sorry AB doc. team!). <BR>I think this book filled my knowledge gap on MySQL perfectly. Actually, this book could easily bear different title, such as &quot;MySQL concepts guide&quot; or something like that. You'll probably read the book in a couple of days, thanks to the author's clear writing style. <BR>Let me give you an example. Some technical topics are difficult to explain in a few sentences, like the one on letter I (Isolation) from ACID rules for 'safe' transactions. Just compare the explanation on &quot;phantom reads&quot; from this book with the one you'll find in Oracle Concepts Manual (freely available on-line from OTN). Now, which one did you understand on the first pass? ;-)<BR>Thanks to clear and short explanations, right from the beginning of the book, I learned some important technical facts about MySQL that I could easily put in perspective with my Oracle background. For example:<BR>-&quot;All InnoDB tables have primary keys&quot;<BR>-&quot;InnoDB tables are similar to Oracle index-organized tables.&quot;<BR>-&quot;MySQL will only ever use one index per table per query!&quot;<BR>-&quot;MySQL doesn't cache rows for MyISAM tables, only indexes...as opposed to InnoDB&quot;<BR>-&quot;...counts are very fast on MyISAM tables and slow on InnoDB tables...&quot;<BR>Obviously the chapters that I liked the most in this book are the ones that covers core things very well: <BR>&quot;2. Storage Engines&quot;, <BR>&quot;4. Indexes&quot;, <BR>&quot;5. Query Performance&quot; and <BR>&quot;10. Security&quot;. <BR>All other chapters are fine but not essential for my current use of MySQL (like the excellent chapter on replication where it's obvious that Jeremy poses vast practical experience with replication from his workplace at Yahoo!). <BR>The only complaint that I have is the one on &quot;Storage Engines&quot; chapter. In my opinion multi storage engine architecture is the most important advantage of MySQL over all other database vendors <BR>products. I wish author's went a little deeper with the details (and thanks but no thanks, I don't want to read source code ;-), especially InnoDB engine is not covered enough (hmm...or maybe it's just me, after all :-). <BR>Overall this book is highly recommended to all DBAs, the existing MySQL DBAs as well as to all others that work with other RDBMS and want a fast way to pick the most important technical nuances of MySQL.	2004-07-10
US	52798402	R3GKYR1MN8VJUZ	0596002815	817384627	Learning Python, Second Edition	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Probably the best Python textbook	After a brief encounter with the on-line documentation from Python community, I decided to learn this powerful language with the help of Python library from O'Reilly. I started with a \\"Python in a Nutshell\\" which is a good reference guide for experienced (Python) programmers, however it's too heavy for the Python newbie like me. Since, I'm not a professional, full-time programmer, I knew that I needed something more comprehensible, so I waited for the second edition of  the \\"Learning Python\\" to be published. At the end, the wait paid off. <BR>This book is excellent study guide for any kind of programmers, from absolute beginners to veterans in other languages. The book clearly shows that the both authors are experienced teachers. Topics are presented in a clear fashion with plenty of code samples and useful exercises at the end of each part. This book should be read as a textbook in front of the terminal, trying out all examples as they're explained. <BR>Now,  I'm comfortably looking forward to read some more specific and advanced Python books. Highly recommended!	2004-01-27
US	52798402	R3OJBRBHXVLR1E	0596001673	792577108	Python Cookbook	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	Cookbook every Pythoner should have	This book is based on ActiveState on-line library of python recipes which were selected and edited by two well known experts, industry veteran Alex Martelli and David Ascher, with the help from other Python experts. <BR>Recipes are organized in seventeen chapters. Chapters begin with short introduction on the topic covered, and is well worth the reading alone (even if you're primarily interested on a specific recipe take the time and read the introduction text). Each recipe is comprised of four sections: Problem definition -> Solution (code) -> Discussion -> Pointers to other relevant recipes or material. <BR>No matter how proficient you're at coding in Python you'll certainly found some useful tips, new approaches or coding techniques. Usually technical books have strong and weak parts which I point out in my reviews, this one is different. As someone before me stated, this book is all meat and no fat. What else do you want from your diet?	2004-01-17
US	52798402	R21BS2LN1UFCTF	0596001886	8923693	Python in a Nutshell	Books	3	48	58	N	Y	For professionals only	Let me begin this review with a fair warning: this book is NOT for fresh programmers, hobbyists, system admins and other non-professional programmers out there, looking for a book that will actually help them LEARN Python language (even if the book has 4+ stars, it's still the O'Reilly Nutshell book). <BR>(Btw. I know that, because I fit in all previously mentioned categories :-).<BR>This book is (as title suggest) a QUICK reference of the Python language written by very competent author, I have no second thought about that, for already competent Python programmers that need good reference manual at hand.<BR>I dare to say, that terse writing style, lack of examples and hard to follow explanations on some topics (without clear and simple code examples) will put off most of the new or intermediate programmers.<BR>In my humble opinion this book is short for 200+ pages dedicated exclusively to code samples - I think examples in any reference book are as important as syntax and language explanations. <BR>If you're already experienced programmer then you'll be more than satisfied with this book, just go ahead an click the button. If you're, on the other hand, starting to learn Python and need a good learning guide, I would recommend, that you begin with the book \\"Learning Python, 2 Edition\\" from O'Reilly.	2004-01-17
US	52798402	R9EF3A7I6W8CX	0596003811	549288882	Oracle PL/SQL Programming, Third Edition	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Is your PL/SQL code manageable?	I just finished reading this book from cover to cover. Huuhh, with 900+ pages it certainly deserves to be called a PL/SQL bible. <BR>It's almost eight years since I purchased first edition of the Steven's PL/SQL Programming. Back then, you didn't have much of the choice, you either swallow official Oracle PL/SQL documentation (that I always found dry and tedious to read) or more likely order PL/SQL Programming from O'Reilly.  The book, that was (and still is!) in the class of it's own (O'Reilly probably sold more copies of Steven's PL/SQL Programming than all other publishers of similar PL/SQL titles together). <BR>The organization of the book is even (slightly) better compared with the first and second edition. The writing style is as good as it was in previous two editions.<BR>What I liked the most is the fact that book covers all PL/SQL features, from Oracle 7.3 to 9.2 throughout the chapters in a way that doesn't feel like authors just \\"patched\\" previous edition of the book with some new chapters. This was the main reason that I decided that it's worthwhile to take some time and read third edition from cover to cover. The second good news is that they didn't overload the book with code examples, instead you can download all source code (printed or just mentioned in the book) from O'Reilly site. <BR>Strictly speaking this book is not the reference manual (fortunately; what's the point to mimic Oracle reference stuff anyway)! It's true that it covers all important aspects of PL/SQL and as such you'll want to have this book at hand when coding. Of course there will always be time when you'll need to check Oracle manuals for some true reference (syntax, built-in packages...).<BR>If your objective is not only to master PL/SQL language but also to learn how to write manageable code, then look no further. Thank you Steven!	2003-08-25
US	52798402	RUDMCYC62612U	0596002173	479235574	Building Secure Servers with Linux	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	This book saved my day...more than once!	Several months ago I decided to setup my personal weblog on one of my home based Linux box. I knew, that counting on cheap DSL router \\"firewall\\" capability, to keep real hackers out of the system is simply not enough (and counting on the fact, that hacker wannabes and script kiddies outnumber real hackers in real life, is not reassuring either).<BR> <BR>Sure, soon after, I opened necessary ports on DSL router for web, mail and ftp service I regularly noticed port scanning probes in router log. I questioned myself if I really built secure Linux box or not? What should I do next time, to strengthen security right from the beginning, and not later, when server is already in use?  Where to place Linux server and how to protect my internal network? Of course, I realized that my general knowledge about security (especially on Linux) is insufficient. I'm following Mr. Bauer excellent articles in Linux Journal for some time, appreciating not only the author knowledge in the field of security, but also his writing skills. It was a logical choice for me to begin learning about security on Linux with the help of his book. <br />It's not some kind of \\"super\\" book on the security subject that'll give you answers on all your questions and the same time cover all security aspects.<BR>On contrary, it covers the most important security issues concerning the services and tools that you'll probably use or support on average Linux box connected to the net. This book really helped me a lot in that respect, not only with home project but also on my daily job that is only occasionally related with network security.<br />If my case sounds familiar to you then you're definitely the prime candidate for this book.	2003-07-01
US	52798402	R1BM8FMJO0POK4	0596004613	464165109	Linux Server Hacks: 100 Industrial-Strength Tips and Tools	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	An ax worth having	I can't help myself not to begin this review with a big *thanks* to O'Reilly for choosing Linux to launch this new series. <BR>First thing that crossed my mind after opening this tiny book, was a notion of close resemblance with another O'Reilly book that I read recently, \\"Unix Power Tools\\". Book is organized in almost identical way, short articles (anything from a page or two, to several pages) that are presented with a clear writing style, examples and efficient layout. Articles are cross-referenced in such a way that you can easily start reading the book from whatever end you wish.<BR>The hacks that I like the most are those in chapters on Server Basics, Backups, SSH and Information Servers (BIND, Apache, MySQL, OpenSSL). If you're hardcore Linux sysadmin you'll probably appreciate hacks in other chapters too; Networking, Revision Control and Monitoring. For me, the most challenging hacks in this book are the ones that deal with tunneling (IPIP/GRE encapsulation, vtun over SSH), due to complete lack of experience on my side, otherwise I found the book well worth the price and time to read, even if you'll end up with only one or two implemented hacks in your production environment. (If I could only say this more often in my reviews :-). <BR>Keep in mind, this is not the book that'll likely collect the dust on your bookshelf after you'll read it. Mine is always close to the Linux box that I manage (in a good company with already mentioned \\"Unix Power Tools\\").<br />I'm really looking forward to other books from O'Reilly Hacks series, what about 100 hacks on Oracle, MySQL, regular expressions \\"one liners\\" (with sed, awk, grep, perl...), Windows NT...	2003-06-29
US	52798402	R1MY0SN3N0MMFW	0782141382	694466868	Linux System Administration, Second Edition (Craig Hunt Linux Library)	Books	3	11	11	N	Y	Is it worth the hype?	Well, I picked up second edition of the book &quot;Linux System Administration&quot; soon after I read excellent &quot;introductory&quot; type of the book, &quot;Linux for Windows Administrators&quot; by Mark Minasi. It was a logical next step for Unix/Linux newbie like me to pick up more advanced guide for Linux SA.  Now, I can only confirm that the book is worth the Linux Journal award in 2001 as being &quot;One of the most indispensable Linux Books&quot;. <BR>It's well written, thought technical dry and less fun to read than the book from Mr. Minasi!<BR>The impression that I got is that book is geared more toward novices and beginners in the field of system administration (in general) than for some seasoned Unix sysadmin on her/his way to Linux. (If you're Windows admin that successfully installed Linux box or two, with solid general knowledge of the hardware than this book is for you!)<BR>Book is organized in four parts (Basics, Managing Users and Processes,  Networking and System Optimization)  and as such covers most tasks and duties of Linux SA. <BR>Layout of the book is nothing special, it's simple and with some unnecessary screenshots (like that of xrost and BRU screenshot, webmin) and lengthy scripts (such as sample netfilter startup file) - this kind of material belongs to appendix of the book. <BR>Overall good book that you can use on a daily basis but not as a complete reference! I found book useful as a reminder of some basic principles and commands, which I later explore with the help of other books and online documentation. Have fun!	2003-05-01
US	52798402	RGKOMIH5ZUO1A	0596003307	649572928	Unix Power Tools, Third Edition	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	Power book for power users	This is one of the best technical book that I bought in the last 10 years, at least from the organizational and layout point of the view. It contains hundreds of short articles, page or two in length organized in  a remarkable way of  cross-referenced, alamanc-like book.<br />Articles are logically organized in chapters so you can read the book from cover to cover if you wish. However more likely you'll end up reading the book more randomly, following the cross-references. (I have some bad experience with the books organized in this way but this one is a clear exception.)<BR> <BR>The book is written for beginners and experts alike, since I'm a Unix newbie I can only confirm that; I hate to say but the life of Unix SA would be much easier if the man pages would be organized in a similar way -- including examples that're almost never there.<br />I'm waiting for O'Reilly to update their &quot;Unix CD Bookshelf&quot; with third edition of this book because it's a little too heavy for carrying it with me.	2002-12-26
US	52798402	R21MW23U3H7SOA	0782141196	800677947	Linux for Windows Administrators (Mark Minasi Windows Administrator Library)	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	A must have!	The first edition of this book was on my wishlist for some time, so when I found out that  Mark wrote second edition I preordered the book the same day. One reason for that is because of the author itself (I read his fourth edition of Mastering Windows 2000 Server and I was really impressed by both the technical level and comprehensiveness of the book - believe me, this man really knows how to explain complex topics in plain English with real life examples), the second reason is the fact that there is no good alternative on the market - I couldn't  find any other book of this kind. Linux books tends to be targeted either to already experienced users of Linux/Unix or to total newbies without any networking/OS background whatsoever. I have several years of  Windows NT experience on my back so I don't want to re-learn some basic topics that are common to all network operating systems. I was looking for a quick headstart approach to transfer some of my knowledge from NT environment to Linux. Now, that I read the second edition of the book I'm really sorry that I waited so long, if I bought the first edition it would probably saved me some hair ;-). <BR>Here is why this book should be on every bookshelf of Windows/Linux administrators;<BR>At first I was a little skeptic to buy a book about Linux from one of the leading authors on Windows technology, even if I knew that writing style will be superb and  that  book is co-authored by Linux expert Dan York. I was expecting &quot;GUI approach&quot; to explain basic Linux administration. I was pleasantly surprised to find out that book is all about using command line to administer Linux. This is REALLY GOOD news ! (And don't worry there is excellent chapter on setting up X environment, one of the best that I read so far.)<BR>One strength of the book is also that when appropriate author explains or compare command or feature in familiar lingo for us NT admins, like the sentence &quot;..To set what we'd call in the NT world theEveryone/Full Control permission for speech.txt, you would type chmod 777 speech.txt&quot;. <BR>In my reviews I usually honor some chapters more than the others, this time I can't pickup my favorite chapter, in all 10 chapters I learned something new. They're all up to the task to introduce you to the topic and give you a headstart, for example, now I know that server in the X world is not a 'server' and the client is really not a 'client' ;-) or  I also learned how the system of starting/stopping daemons work on Linux, how file permissions work on Linux and what are  the limitations compared to NT, how to setup my own DHCP, DNS, FTP, Web and mail server, how to setup NFS, NIS and SAMBA, or to compile my own kernel and many more. <BR>Considering the size of the book (less than 500 pages) I think it's  one of the finest material that you can find on the topic, especially if you're NT admin starting to explore the wonders of Linux. Highly recommended!	2002-12-25
US	52798402	RFW1GRXMMTN3J	1565922255	480381905	sed & awk	Books	4	34	35	N	N	You'll not regret this one!	My primarily profession is database administration on Windows NT/2000 platform so I'm pretty new to Unix tools. Several months ago I needed some inexpensive, yet powerful tools to manipulate some large text files for our data warehouse project -- basically I was looking for a way to avoid expensive commercial ETL tools. PERL was my first choice, but it seemed to me that learning curve is too steep for what I needed, so I ended with GNU sed and awk.<BR>I was happy with the GNU version of Guide for Awk &quot;Effective AWK Programming&quot; written by one of the author of this book, Mr. Arnold D. Robbins -- but I needed some good reference for sed as well and this book was logical choice for me. Not only that it helped me to learn SED, now I'm using the book mostly as reference and user guide for awk. It's well written and will certainly satisfy both the advanced and the novice users. <BR>The only objections that I have are examples at the end of the book. Not many readers will find them interesting and useful, especially chapter 12 Full-Featured Applications. <BR>Overall good choice if you want to learn either of the two tools!	2001-09-25
US	52798402	R4YTBTQDGTJXL	0762700114	169257523	Australia & New Zealand Rail, 3rd (Bradt Rail Guides)	Books	2	4	4	N	Y	Seldom-useful companion	Well, I'm always sorry when I need to write a negative review about the book - even more if the book is about the rail travel (perhaps books from Trailblazer spoiled me to much). Anyway, based on Amazon prediction that similar title &quot;Australia by rail&quot; from Trailblazer (by the same author, Colin Taylor) is soon to be published (January 2001) I postponed for awhile the decision to order this book. At the end I ordered this one because my deadline to departure was coming close and Trailblazer version was not published yet. Compared with Trailblazer rail guides this one was more or less useless during my preparation of itinerary for a trip from Perth to Cairns. There is way to much information on itineraries prepared by the author which are suitable only for those people willing to spend almost all vacation time on the train. Do you know anyone? I don't. Author included some very basic information and recommendation about the cities, sightseeing's, walks...but without some clear organization. You'll definitely need another, better organized guide to get some basic travel information about Australia or New Zealand. <BR>I really hope that author will rewrite and most importantly reorganize the content for Trailblazer version of the guide because it would be pity not to share his vast travel experience with others.	2001-09-11
US	52798402	R3L0MFZ7YGAIN3	0871569612	181877405	Adventuring in Australia: Second Edition (Sierra Club Adventure Travel Guides)	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Travel guide for adventurers and tourists	Recently I took a trip from Perth to Cairns by rail and this book was my primary source of information that helped me prepare my itinerary. I spent a few days in all major aussie cities on my way to Cairns. This guide helped me in two ways, first it helped me to quickly gather general information about particular place where I took a break and it's surroundings. Second, it helped me to narrow down day trips, sightseeings and walks (which are *plenty* to choose from local tourist kiosks in hotels, YHA...).<BR>One thing that I didn't find in this book was enough tips for budget accomodation - if I didn't by an accident find the official YHA Australia web site I would never know how good this organization is in this country (at least compared with YHA in most part of Europe). So, if you need budget accomodation then certainly checkout YHA web site before booking any 'budget' places mentioned in this book.<BR>Otherwise I can't say anything bad about the book, it does a good job covering all aussie states and I beleieve that the content will satisfy the adventurers as well as tourists.	2001-09-10
US	52798402	R3MSL304PFYA2G	0072125004	388239258	MCSE Windows 2000 Accelerated Study Guide (Exam 70-240) (Book/CD-ROM package)	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	Overall good study guide	I bought this book a couple of months ago and until recently the book was dust collector on my bookshelf. My decision to buy this book was based on relative good reviews that the book received compared to other study guides for exam 70-240. Now, I'm glad that I picked up this particular study guide. What I needed before I was ready for this book was some kind of overview of all the goodies in Windows 2000, because most of my job related experience was so far limited to W2K member servers in NT 4 domain - no Active Directory, GPO... I recently took five days course, &quot;1560 Updating Support skills from MS Windows NT 4.0 to MS Windows 2000&quot; which helped me to accelerate the whole process of preparation for this exam. Now I can more easily follow the topics in this study guide from Syngress. It covers exam objectives pretty well, I found the writing style somehow 'technical dry' but otherwise clear with no filler paragraphs. Some topics are covered too light however (GPO for example), so you'll probably need some additional source of information (I'm using Books online from Resource Kit, Windows 2000 Active directory from O'Reilly and Inside Windows 2000 Server from New Riders). CD-ROM is surprisingly useful, the only thing I don't like are those barely readable CertCam videos and bonus printable questions with answers immediately following the questions - it would be much better if answers were on a separate page. The organization of the topics is in my opinion the major shortcoming of the book, for example it would be logical to cover DNS before Active Directory and to better resemble real exam structure of four different sections. It's also a shame that after a year publisher didn't care to prepare errata for this book to correct some errors and to further clarify some statements that contradict on the first glance but are correct with proper interpretation, for example; page 41 : Site link bridges have no link cost, because their link cost is a dynamic costdependent on the links included in the site link bridge. page 145: Like site links, site link bridges have cost and replication schedule attributes. Overall this is a good study guide for exam 70-240 with emphasis on word &quot;guide&quot; - it's not possible to cover all the details in one &quot;tiny&quot; book. You'll need some additional resources and readings. Good luck!	2001-08-24
US	52798402	R2GMXGNNA8510Q	157610737X	308810859	Oracle 8 to 8i Upgrade Exam Cram (Exam: 1Z0-020)	Books	3	12	12	N	Y	Good enough...but nothing special	It seems to me that everyone is happy with the book, but is it really that good?  In my opinion it's far from perfect preparation guide for OCP exam. It's true that author covered  *almost* all topics from OCP preparation guide, organization of the book is indeed good, questions at the end of each chapter and sample test at the end of the book are real gems. Even typographical errors are almost gone in this edition compared with author previous edition Oracle7 to 8 Upgrade (which was probably not proof read at all). <br />So, where is the problem?  First I found layout of the book simply terrible, it really hurts readability of otherwise more or less well-written chapters. You'll probably need a set of markers at hand while reading to make clear distinction of key words, wrapped syntax and dense sections.  Extensive usage of boldface and lack of white space in this book makes this even worse and as such worthless for any kind of reference in the future (ok, this last one is perhaps too much to expect from cram book, after all ;-).<br />When I prepared for upgrade exam from Oracle 7.3 to 8.0 I used Exam Cram study guide as my primary source of information,  ILT Courseware as second and Oracle technical manuals for detailed explanations on particular topics as third source of information. This time around I think ILT courseware is better exam preparation resource than Exam Cram book Oracle8 to 8i Upgrade. ILT is certainly more readable (thanks to clear layout) and more comprehensive at the same time.<br />Topics that I found incomplete or with missing explanation in this book are: LogMiner (incomplete description of V$ views),  LOBS (temporary LOBS...),  DBMS_REPAIR,  FGAC (data dictionary views?), Constraint Changes in Oracle8i and last but not least, chapter on Resource Manager is a clear example of how NOT to present new feature in study guide.<br />You should also be careful while reading and answering the questions because some statements (answers) are wrong, forexample false statement introduced in Oracle7.3 to 8 Upgrade book that makes you believe that partitioning of bitmap indexes was not possible in Oracle8 is still here,  wrong definition of normalized / denormalized dimensions and unclear definition of prefixed index are also examples of possible misunderstanding of the topics.<br />So, the question is should you buy this book if you already have ILT? Don't forget that the main objective of Exam Cram books is to help you pass the exam (not necessarily help you to really *learn* something),  I'm sure this book will deliver that promise. Those of you without ILT don't have much choice, Mr. Freeman book is still the best OCP 8 to 8i study guide on the market. Good luck!	2001-04-18
US	52798402	RT99YOHD2P7YZ	0471376787	641010750	Essential Oracle8i Data Warehousing: Designing, Building, and Managing Oracle Data Warehouses	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	Read this book before you start building DW on Oracle!	I found excellent description of this book in Bill Inmon's Foreword - it's written in comprehensible and down-to-earth manner.   Both authors, on top of having real world experience on the subject, are also experienced trainers, so it's not a surprise that this book is readable and well organized at the same time.<br />First three chapters cover essentials in data warehousing, hardware architecture, and introduction to Oracle architecture and features. If you are not familiar with either concept, then you'll be glad that you choose this book just for the first three chapters alone!<br />Next four chapters are about designing data warehouse (metadata, star schema,...), building, populating and post-load processing in the data warehouse. If you already have some experience in Oracle8i, then you'll find most techniques described here very familiar (SQL*Plus, SQL*loader, ...) and occasionally even tedious to read. However some tips are really good and worth some patient while reading. Even if you use particular technique on a daily basis, I'm sure, you'll get some new ideas about different possibilities in data warehouse implementation. <br />Next four chapters are covering administration of data warehouse, performance tuning, parallel execution and parallel server. As DBA I liked these chapters the most. Especially chapter on tuning is well presented with just enough detail that you can start exploring the wonders of Oracle RDBMS.<br />Last two chapters are about distributing the Oracle data warehouse (replication, database links,...) and analytical processing (new analytical functions and brief discussion on Discoverer and OLAP with Oracle Express - the product that will soon die).<br />What about the shortcomings of the book? First, you should visit publisher web site and pick errata for the book (btw, it's excellent). In addition to common typos found in most technical books, some sentences doesn't make sense to me, or contradict with some other part of the book. Next, some pictures are over simplistic and as such unnecessary or hard to understand.  In general I like the way authors compared features of different version of Oracle through out the book, however sometimes it's obvious that their focus is not Oracle8i, but previous version of Oracle (for example, it's OK to discuss how to set up SORT_DIRECT_WRITES, but only with the reminder to the reader that this parameter is obsolete in Oracle8i).<br />One last reminder, this is *not* all-in one book, it's about essentials and it should be used as roadmap to different Oracle8i features. There is no substitute for official Oracle manuals (you should at least read Oracle Data Warehousing Guide). If you're experienced Oracle DBA/developer, with several years of hands-on experience in data warehousing you'll probably be disappointed with technical details in this book. This is actually a feature of this book, because you already have all technical manuals, you don't need another one. What you probably don't have is 'essential' book like this one that will guide you on the way to build successful data warehouse.	2001-02-18
US	52798402	R1QZ6S5BUCRLPF	1565926757	317210923	Oracle PL/SQL Programming: Guide to Oracle8i Featu	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	More than good supplement to PL/SQL series from O'Reilly!	In the preface of this book Steven announced that he is developing the third edition of his well-known book &quot;Oracle PL/SQL Programming&quot; that will cover Oracle8i. I hope he'll postpone this release until Oracle9i hits the market so he can cover this major release too. In the meantime I think this book is perfect supplement to PL/SQL series from O'Reilly. Even if you don't follow Steven series on PL/SQL (which I doubt if you're Oracle developer on planet Earth ;-) you'll find this book more than adequate resource for quick reference on all major Oracle8i PL/SQL features. I particularly liked chapters on invoker rights, native dynamic SQL, fine-grained access control and new trigger features. If you're not familiar with these terms then you'll be glad that you read this book! The only (minor!) deficiency that I found in this book was what Steven is calling &quot;breath of fresh air&quot; approach to examples that will help us engage with the technical material. Perhaps I could better relate to the examples about USA health care, gun lobby or fairness of wage structures if I ever lived in the states. Steven, if you're reading this please go back to old boring emp/dept examples or pick somehow less distract full examples.	2000-12-05
US	52798402	R2HS3A1Y7CZEYC	1562059297	647844322	Inside Windows 2000 Server	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	You should not skip this one! Great book!	In general I don't like technical bibles like this one.  If it's possible I avoid thick technical books with more than 1000 pages or so because I simply don't have time and discipline to stick with such book. Despite of my habit I bought this book thinking that a good reference guide will at least come handy in the following months.  But...after reading first few chapters I was surprised how readable this book is and now I'm reading it from cover to cover. The amount of technical details covered in this book is amazing. Author definitely knows what he's writing about from his own experience. You'll find description and precautions about (almost) every item from Windows 2000 arsenal; Installation, DNS, Active Directory, Data Storage, Security, Kerberos, Group policies, Remote Access, Recovery...you named  it. The structure of the book is straightforward and the number of typos is minimal considering the size of the book, thanks to excellent job done by technical reviewers! You can choose your own path of reading or follow the author like me. One last reminder to those of you who are searching for definitive Inside Windows 2000 book. If you are network administrator then this is the book to start with (it's also more than excellent starting point for all MCSE's out there preparing for upgrade exams), on the other hand I found David Solomon and Mark Russinovich book &quot;Inside Windows 2000 Third Edition&quot; invaluable for application developers or network administrators curious about OS internals.	2000-11-27
US	52798402	R2PPQ7KHGCKAF6	1565926382	184277426	Windows 2000 Active Directory	Books	5	16	18	N	Y	Mandatory reading for W2K administrators!	Long before the official announcement of Windows 2000 I put on top of my shopping list a 'wish' for a book with extensive coverage of Active Directory that is suitable for intermedidate and experienced network administrator. My second wish on the list was the book that would cover ADSI scripting with windows scripting host. After some research on the web I picked up this book from O'Reilly expecting to be good (as usually the books from this publisher are) . I was wrong, this book is not only <br />good but truly excellent guide to Active Directory and ADSI scripting. Do I need to say that both my wishes come true with this single book!? Technical books like this one are rare, not only that author is an experienced user of technology that he is writing about he also knows how to explain complex topics (and AD is complex, believe me :-) with well-written style and illustrate the subject with relevant real-world examples. You'll not find  'sweet talk' and confusing examples in this book!  I know that this book will be on my bookshelf  for years to come.	2000-09-30
US	52798402	RX3ZOY9W5KD0	1576105431	17699562	Oracle DBA 7.3 to 8 Upgrade Exam Cram (Exam: 1Z0-010)	Books	3	4	4	N	Y	Good but not excellent!	This book has some really strong parts such as: 1) organization of the  book with excellent coverage of exam topics (short and informative),  2)  review questions on the end of each chapter are very well prepared and even  harder than the real ones. Usually this is not the case with exam  preparation guides.  3) last chapter alone with 60 sample test questions is  worth purchasing the book. Not only that questions are picked up and  presented carefully, a big help are explanations of why the particular  answer is correct or wrong. Great stuff!<br />So why I didn't give the book  five stars as other reviewers? While reading the book I found many (minor)  typos in text, source code, questions, answers (most of them as consequence  of misuse of COPY/PASTE or writing example of code on the fly) which I  found annoying at least. There are some more serious mistakes like  statements &quot;Prefixed indexes are built on the same partition boundary  as the table...&quot; or &quot;...you can not partition a bitmap  index.&quot;  I have a filling that author simply didn't re-read this book  and technical reviewer was obviously not up to the task of proofreading  Oracle syntax and technical details.  (If you're interesting I can send you  my own version of errata - I'm still waiting the errata from the  author.)<br />On the bright sight this is certainly the best study guide for  upgrade exam on the market. Highly recommended!   Btw. I passed the exam  with 60 points (100%).	2000-09-11
US	52798402	RYO0CQXL8FZPM	0446675962	360862239	Business @ the Speed of Thought: Succeeding in the Digital Economy	Books	3	14	16	N	N	Worth reading!	As IT professional I found little surprises in this book about technology  and the author visions how it will further influence (change) our daily  lives.  <br />Why? Because the issue Mr. Gates is writing about with such  passion is really an old story nowadays. Let me explain. We have an \\"old\\"  IT infrastructure in some places that is not good enough to support  companies in a new economy, fortunately most of the corporate world also  possess \\"new\\" PC and PC based devices connected to the Internet that are  (according to Mr. Gates) fully capable and optimal way of supporting  business in the 21st century. Hmm...I know at least couple of people that  will strongly disagree with that (Larry and Scott where are you :-).   The  result is that corporate management is desperately looking for clues how to  make the best use of this &quot;new&quot; technology to succeed in a new  economy. <br />This book will help you get  most of the answers, but (as  usually) don't buy everything you read!  <br />Don't get me wrong, I'm not  negative about the book, in fact I learned a lot  from Mr. Gates as  businessperson. With his enthusiastic writing style, he kept me constantly  rethinking from chapter to chapter about existing solutions in my company  from business perspective and NOT from IT as usually! <br />Another good  reason to read this book are real world examples from different companies,  including  Microsoft Corporation itself, on how you can gain business  advantage with proper use of digital tools. <br />Last but not least, if you  think that you know Mr. Gates and his company well then think again or  better yet, read this book!	2000-08-06
US	52798402	R1B18LPL3S0FZD	0761510877	254256367	All Aboard! Revised 2nd Edition: The Complete North American Train Travel Guide	Books	5	23	24	N	Y	Excellent train travel guide for North America!	This book will take you behind the scene of railroading in North America with emphasize on  amtrak in USA. Thanks to Jim Loomis enthusiastic writing style I learned a lot about trains, on-board personnel, operations,  logistics, history and rail terms in general. If you are rail freshman like  me than you'll appreciate this book just for that alone. Recently I took a  trip from Halifax to Vancouver with VIA and now I'm looking  forward to  take similar route (coast to coast) with Amtrak.  The only thing that  you'll not find in this book is comprehensive list of places to stay and  see that are typical for classic travel guides like  the Lonely Planet  series. (If you're planing the rail trip in Canada then don't miss the  excellent travel guide &quot;Trans-Canada Rail Guide&quot;.) Overall this  book deserve five stars. Recommended!	2000-06-29
US	52798402	R20FWSMRC6LGS9	1873756054	892438713	Trans-Canada Rail Guide (Trailblazer Rail Guides)	Books	5	46	46	N	Y	This book is even better than I thought	Ok, I'm back. This is my second review of the book, however this time it's based on my real experience traveling with VIA  from coast to coast (Halifax - Vancouver) and using this book on the road (oooppss...rail).  While preparing my itinerary I used this book as a main source of  information when deciding how much time I'll spend in each city and where  I'll be staying. VIA web site is of course the place to pickup the latest  timetables, calculate the price of the tickets, and make a reservations...  (I found timetables at the end of the book still useful on the board of the  train when I needed to quickly find out the distance to the next station).<br />I put three books in my backpack, two travel guides from NELLES (guides  to Atlantic and Pacific provinces) and this one. The guides from NELLES are  good with lots of facts about the country and with nice photos, however I  found &quot;Trans-Canada Rail Guide&quot; far more suitable for people  traveling across Canada by train. Also the book is as valuable on board of  the train as well in the downtown of the city. I rent the book to several  fellow travelers in coach class and each one of them told me how great it  is.<br />The organization of the book is simple but efficient, for example in  PART 4 City Guides and plans you can find for all mayor cities short  descriptions of the following: History, Arriving in...(by air, by train),  Local Transport, Orientation and Services, Where to stay, Where to eat,  What to see, Moving on (by air, by train). If you are real rail enthusiast  you'll have fun reading PART 5 Route Guide and Maps with description of  small stations and places marked with mile markers so you can be  &quot;smarter&quot; then others guessing what it is or where you are. Some  prices mentioned in the book are the same even today  but in general are  higher. My average expense for the mid-range hotel or B&amp;B was 55 CAD  per night (including tax), entrance fees for museums and other events arein general higher, anything from 10 to 50% higher, food 10-20%, buses and  taxis 10-20% , train tickets 10-20% (the cost of my Canrail Pass was 408  CAD including tax). If you need any additional tips or information about  the trip you can send me a message to my account on Yahoo (see member  page).  Today I found out that second edition of this book is published so  check it out!	2000-06-03
US	52798402	R201JRRNZYV0GY	156592438X	50643651	Oracle Scripts: Powerful Tools for DBAs and Developers	Books	2	6	6	N	Y	Not on the level of other O'Reilly books	The title of this book should be &quot;Oracle Scripts for System &amp; DB Administrators on Unix&quot;. If you're running Oracle on anything else  skip this book! You'll be better of spending time on your own searching the  web or writing the scripts for yourself (and yes, reinventing the  wheel...unfortunately :-(  I found only a couple of useful native SQL  scripts that worked fine for me (on NT and MVS), but nothing that I could  not find on the  web or write by myself. <br />I admit that it's hard to write  an objective review of such book. You'll love it or you'll hate it - it all  depends on which platform you run Oracle, how experienced you're in  scripting, how many scripts you already have in your toolbox and how much  time you're willing to spend testing the scripts from this book. <br />As  other readers already mentioned, you should visit O'Reilly web site first  and download several updated scripts before you even start testing  scripts  in your environment. <br />More universal approach to glue together SQL  scripts for the purpose of this book would be with Tcl/Tk, so scripts could  be run from Enterprise Manager or standalone. Just a thought..	2000-04-11
US	52798402	RFQLLMX0CAETV	1565925165	354486253	Oracle Database Administration: The Essential Refe: A Quick Reference for the Oracle DBA	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	Sometimes useful companion	I really didn't like this book in the beginning. Why? Most of the time I'm using an on-line documentation for quick reference and original Oracle documentation set for studying material larger than a few pages. In the old days (do you remember Oracle Book ? ;-) this kind of reference guide would  be a rescue for any DBA. Now days?Perhaps... The organization of the book  is quite good, index is excellent and some chapters are  more than just  reference on the subject. When I'm not working on the site where I can  easily  reach on-line documentation or paper manuals then this book goes  with me. One drawback at the time of writing this review is that this  edition doesn't cover Oracle8i so you should at least wait for the second  edition.	2000-04-03
US	52798402	R2XB6A8VJPSCUX	156592598X	73347053	Oracle 8i Internal Services: for Waits, Latches, Locks, and Memory	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	Excellent book on internal services!	In five years of being Oracle DBA I never had to tune databases on such level that I would have to know internals on the level described in this book; knowing what's really going on behind all those fancy statistics,  using hidden parameters, events or X$ tables directly. I guess I was lucky  so far. I think that this book is a must read for *any* DBA!<br />Having  several books about tuning Oracle server on my  bookshelf not a single one  goes deeper in the explanation than this thiny one. We can only imagine and  appreciate the time and knowledge that Steve Adams invested in this book.  <br />One reminder to those of you who are searching for the definitive tuning  guide (&quot;do that, change that...&quot;); Oracle8i Internal Services is  not about that, here is what author wrote in the preface ...&quot;My  advanced Oracle performance-tuning book is still a dream. This little book  is something else: an introduction to Oracle internals. It builds the  foundation necessary for advanced performance tuning...&quot;<br />There is  only one thing that this book badly need - pictures! So Steve if you're  reading this please include some pictures in your second edition (I hope  there would be one!).	2000-03-27
US	52798402	R1T96FJXHL3M1R	1873756054	892438713	Trans-Canada Rail Guide (Trailblazer Rail Guides)	Books	4	11	11	N	Y	Read this book before you go!	This book helped me prepare itinerary for my one-month journey from Halifax to Vancouver that I'm planning to take in May 2000. I checked prices and some telephone numbers mentioned in the book with those I found on different web sites and despite the fact that the book is four years old  it's still useful and accurate. There is everything you need to prepare for  such journey: routes and costs, facts about country, practical advices  (transport, festivals, food, time, hotels,...), history about Trans-Canada  railway, mayor city guides and plans and least but not last route guide and  maps with short description about small towns along the routes.	2000-03-19
US	52798402	R24VN30LVRBY11	1565926870	220485953	Oracle Web Applications:  PL/SQL Developer's Intro: Developer's Introduction	Books	3	3	4	N	Y	Good introduction to Oracle web development !	Don't expect too much from the book that covers so many topics on just two hundred pages!  First five chapters are dedicated to current Oracle &amp;  If you have time you can probably download white papers  with better  technical information about the topics from Oracle, Technet or related  websites. On the other hand this five chapters are good time savers. Last  four chapters are much better, covering introduction to PL/SQL and Toolkit  (HTF, HTP, OWA_***), two sample web applications (Survey and Discussion  Forum) and XML. The best thing about this book is that you'll find out what  you don't know, so you can make a list of relevant books that covers the  topic in more detail.	2000-03-19
US	52798402	R1OZZMSM74Y653	1578701392	84030720	Windows Script Host	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Excellent instruction book - poor reference guide	At the time of writing this review Tim Hill's book about WSH scripting technology is probably the best one on the market. If you're serious about replacing or (re)writing from scratch all those awkward batch files with  more powerful WSH scripts then this is the book to start with. Usually  programmers guides tend to be dry - certainly not the case with this one.  Topics are presented with short samples and just enough explanation to  understand the concept. No waste of paper! I like Notes and Program Guide  sections throughout the book that provide additional explanation of some  terms that I was not familiar with (If you're experienced VB/VBSCript  developer then this book is probably not for you ;-). You should be aware  however that this book is not organized as an reference guide for VBScript  - if you're not satisfied with on-line documentation that came with WSH  then look around for reference book on VBScript(or whatever script engine  you prefer) with better index and page layout.	2000-01-10
