US	52790591	R2U9SVEYRQL7J0	0786707917	806871582	The Mammoth Book of Haunted House Stories	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Something For Everyone	The Mammoth Book of Haunted House Stories is a vast collection of stories touching on hauntings in about every situation one could imagine.  The book is divided into topical sections: Haunted Places, Avenging Spirits, Shadowy Corners (restless spirits), Phantom Lovers, Little Terrors (Ghosts of Children), Psychic Phenomena, and Houses of Horror (favorite stories of movie stars like Vincent Price).<br /><br />For me, the overwhelming majority of the stories were new with The Judge's House (by Bram Stoker) and Lost Heart's (M. R. James) being the most familiar.  There are stories that are frightening and others that struck me as quite tame by comparison.  The beauty of this volume is that all voices from the literary world are heard and I am sure that some stories that I found less rewarding would appeal to other readers.  For me the most frightening was the first story The Haunted and the Haunters by Bulwer-Lytton.  It is the kind of story that has one jumping at minor sounds in the house.  Equally scary was Authentic Narrative of a Haunted House, a story  by Le Fanu that I was not familiar with. The Grey House by Basil Cooper was nicely written and atmospheric but not particularly frightening; it would make an interesting film.  The House of Dust is a nicely written story injecting a bit of sex into haunted house tales.<br /><br />A story that I was very interested in reading was In Letters of Fire by Gaston Leroux (who also wrote The Phantom of the Opera.  I would not strictly categorize this story as involving a haunted house but one that has an evil room.  The book has a nice selection of stories with an informative introduction to each providing us with the location and peculiarities of the haunted house and some brief biographical data about the author.  There also is a helpful appendix that describes haunted house novels that I found intriguing.	2005-10-11
US	52790591	R3F5PPKG4RQQIX	0815410255	344245815	Clara Bow: Runnin' Wild	Books	5	37	37	N	N	The Truth About the IT Girl	I had seen several of Clara Bow's films and the TCM documentary before reading David Stenn's book, so I knew something about Clara and had forgotten some things as well.  Mr. Stenn's book is well-written and researched.  It does not turn Clara Bow's life into the tawdry tale, filled with just sex and scandal, which a lesser writer would use to sell the book.  Instead, Mr. Stenn has written a well considered biography of a very unhappy and insecure life.  The information he provides on her upbringing in the slums of Brooklyn, her winning the \\"Fame and Fortune Contest\\" and life in 1920's Hollywood is as complete as one would want.   <br /> <br />Her films are nicely profiled with detail given for the most important of them: It, Mantrap and Dancing Mothers. He also deals with her later mental problems with great sensitivity and clarity so one come away with knowing exactly made Clara the woman that she was.  Ultimately, Clara's was an unhappy life punctuated with moments of happiness.  I came away from the book feeling that I had a new perspective about Clara Bow and a renewed interest in seeing films of hers that I had missed.  The book has an excellent filmography and contains a good set of photographs of Clara and the people in her life.     <br />	2005-09-13
US	52790591	R3SV88IUWE7Z0T	0573606048	324912622	Bad Boy of Music	Books	5	14	15	N	N	An Entertaining Life	My interest in reading George Antheil's autobiography came from admiration for his music and what he could relate about Paris in the 1920's.  Mr. Antheil was a very good writer and wrote quite a lot during his life, particularly for Esquire magazine.  He gives his writing a conversational style that flows nicely.  I liked the fact that he began his book with stories of his brief career as a pianist and how hard it is to be a traveling musician.  Must amusing is that he had a gun concealed in a silk holster when he perform - except once in Budapest when he placed it on the piano.  His performances had been greeted with so many riots that he felt he needed the option to shot his way out of the concert hall.<br /><br />Mr. Antheil's book is more the story of his life than a review of his musical life and compositions.  He does discuss the writing of his operas, sometimes in rather tedious detail, but he rarely talks about his compositions with any detail.  One interesting comment in the book concerns his Fourth Symphony which had been compared to the music of Dmitri Shostakovich.  Mr. Antheil revealed that a good portion of the music came from his opera \\"Transatlantic\\" and so pre-dated all of the Shostakovich symphonies.  Therefore, any similarities in style are coincidental.<br /><br />We learn a lot from Mr. Antheil about his life and loves and money worries, and there are some interesting anecdotes about Stravinsky, Hemmingway and James Joyce but Mr. Antheil seldom focuses on his realtionships with other famous people. The chapter about Mr. Antheil and Hedy Lamarr inventing a radio controlled torpedo is very interesting but one is left wondering how they set about designing such a thing.<br /><br />The book also provides an interesting look at Europe, particularly Germany, after the First World War. \\"Bad Boy of Music\\" is entertaining if sometimes a bit rambling at times but if you have an interest in Mr. Antheil's music this book is a must read.	2005-07-14
US	52790591	R36R8DTUB3KMOQ	059526882X	822467225	A. D. 62: Pompeii	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	An Engaging Novel	Many of us dream about what it would be like to be transported into the ancient world but Rebecca East has done it in A.D. 62: Pompeii. I have read several excellent historical novels set in the ancient Roman world;  Robert Harris comes to mind with his novel about the destruction of Pompeii.  For me, Ms East's book falls into the excellent category.   She tells her story as if she has indeed been a visitor to ancient Pompeii so convincing are her descriptions of daily life.   I felt drawn into the day-to-day existence in one of the sumptuous villas that existed around Pompeii.  The individual portraits are excellent: Marcus Tullius is every inch the Roman equestrian and his wife Holconia as a spiteful woman in an arranged marriage who is entirely focused on her only son.   Julia Felix, famous for the building in Pompeii that bears her name was a delightful and a well-drawn personality and the slave Demetrius was also an interesting and well-conceived portrait.   <br /> <br /> I found it fascinating to be led through this world and was eager to read on.  The relationship between Miranda and Marcus Tullius is nicely built as he gradual comes to know his new slave, moving from not noticing his new slave to gradually being curious about her to slowly falling in love with her.  I have read some reviews here that note some repetition.  This mostly comes as Miranda finds herself conflicted as to her feelings for her master and for the strange ancient place she finds herself in; she is fascinated but repelled and the conflicting emotions were not too much for me because one can feel with the character.   <br /> <br />I found A.D. 62: Pompeii to be a riveting book with a story that is well-researched and written.  For me, the fact that Ms. East decided to write about people who we would not recognize was a plus.  Usually historical fiction centers on some famous individual like Caesar, Hannibal or Cleopatra.  Here we have no preconceived notions about the characters.  I highly recommend this book to people interested in the ancient world in general.       <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-06-16
US	52790591	R2K96TZRQA6QXJ	1400043417	268437494	Birds Without Wings	Books	5	14	16	N	Y	Life in a Turkish Town	I have not read anything by Louis De Bernieres prior to this book, and my reason for reading this novel was a very intriguing review.  Birds Without Wings is set in a small town in southwestern Turkey named Eskibahce, in what once was ancient Lycia.  The town is home to a great variety of people: Muslims and Christians, rich and poor all more or less living at peace with each other in the waning days of the Ottoman Empire. The characters are sharply drawn with an eye for detail so that one conjures up an image as to who this person looks like and how they act.  Each chapter is concerned with a particular character or happening and is written utilizing different writing persons: at times we are addressed by characters as if they are speaking to us, sometimes the character is writing a memoir and other times the author adopts the third person giving Mr. De Bernieres the opportunity to explore his characters deeply.  In the first chapter, we are introduced to a tragedy that runs in the background of the novel: a daughter named Philothei has been born to  Christian parents, an extraordinarily beautiful we are told she is fated to die young through some indiscretion.  Each chapter build upon those that came before it so we get to know, and care about, the people of this quiet village as distinct individuals.      As I read the book, I came to like some of the people more than others and looked forward to chapters written about them.  Of special interest is Rustem Bey, the richest man of Eskibahce but unfortunate with his wife who loves someone else.  His quest for a Circasian mistress was especially engaging and humorous.  The chapters about Rustem Bey run throughout the book to the very end and he (for me) comes to symbolize endurance and constancy. The nobility of character and wisdom clearly stands out for Abdulhamid Hodja who saves a woman from being stoned and has a special love for his horse named Nilufer.  Then, there are the odd characters like the Dog who livesin the ancient tombs near the town and eats insects.     There is a threat of history running through the novel as the biography of Kemal Attaturk is related from his beginnings, his education and the stirrings of reform among army officers, through the First World War.  These chapters fill in the events that are going on of which the town is for the most part ignorant about.  There has been some criticism of how the war is handled these being boring chapters of the book: I did not find it that way.   The chapter where Mr. De Bernieres relates the hostilities between Christians and Muslims from 1821 until the outbreak of the First World War informed me of atrocities that I had not known about and deserves to be better known.  The holocaust of the Second World War was neither the first nor certainly the last in atrocities committed against people because of their religious faith or ethnicity and the relating of this part of history served to connect the hostility between Christians and Muslims to the events unfolding today.     I also found the telling of the battle for Gallipoli through the eyes of Karatavuk to have been particularly effective; we learn about the fighting, about the war and the life of a soldier from someone engaged in the daily struggles of a soldier, and the horrors of war.  We know what Karatavuk knows about the soldiers he is fighting (whom he calls Franks) and make his discoveries along with him as the battle continues, the attacks waste lives and he learns more about the men he is facing.  Along with the memoirs of Karatavuk are short chapters relating the war from the perspective of Kemal that provide an historical background to the battle. The war has drastic changes for the town as anyone of military age is taken by the army, each household suffers loss and privation and their animals are even sacrificed to the war. Perhaps most horrifying was to rounding up of the Armenians, forced to leave their homes and march away to certain death.It would take a book to adequately explain and discuss all of the characters and events of Birds Without Wings; the book recreates a social order and way of life that in many ways has not changed. This is one of those very moving books that create a world in itself that draws the reader inside and, if open minded and patient, can change their perspective.	2005-05-23
US	52790591	RRB4NM6H81FRJ	0374527776	541097540	Greene on Capri: A Memoir	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	A Great Memoir	I read Shirley Hazzard's book prior to visiting Capri for the first time in 20 years, and took it with me to read on the flight to Italy.  In fact, the book made the journey with me to the island.  This is an excellent portrait of Graham Greene and the information Ms. Hazzard adds concerning Capri certainly whetted my appetite and increased my anticipation to get to the island to see the places she mentioned.   <br /> <br />The book is written in a beautiful style.  One hears Ms. Hazzard's voice in her writing and shares her experiences.  I must confess that I really did not like Graham Greene very much as a person but I understand a great deal about him and what drove him.  I was most touched by what Ms. Hazzard had to say about Harold Acton, so much so that I re-read that part of the book.  Mr. Action was such a wonderful scholar and writer with such a wonderful presence that I would very much have liked to have known him.  I will never forget the last visit of Ms. Hazzard to Harold Acton when he said he regretted not being able to see Naples one more time.  Since I was reading this in Naples I was able to understand what he meant all the more.   <br /> <br />Someone else I enjoyed learning about was Ms. Hazzard's husband Francis Steegmuller, and some of the books he wrote.  In particular the discussion about Mr. Steegmuller's book about Flaubert in Egypt sparked my interest to read it.  Another book mentioned by Ms. Hazzard that has my interest in The Viper of Milan, historical fiction on the war between the dukes of Verona and Milan, which sounds like quite an exciting read.  <br /> <br />So this is a wonderful book that gives us a unique perspective on a great writer - Graham Greene - but also gives us a glimpse into the island of Capri and the people who came to live on this paradise of a place over the years, some who came and left and others who never did.  I gained insight into places of the island, such as the Villa Jovis and the town of Capri, and met some interesting people, chief of whom is Ms Hazzard herself.   I highly recommend this book for the superb memoir that it is and also for the excellence of the writing. <br />	2005-05-02
US	52790591	R1DLMNFGOL70MD	0674689674	13748384	Pompeii: Public and Private Life (Revealing Antiquity)	Books	5	11	13	N	Y	Private Houses in Pompeii	This book is an excellent introduction to Pompeii studies.   Paul Zanker expertly describes the beginnings and variations on the private houses in Pompeii; how they were influenced by lavish country villas and how many of the houses were changed to provide an illusion of luxury.  The \\"illusion\\" comes into play because many of the houses had very limited space and made the best of what they had.  Several of the homes, such as the House of the Grand Duke, were not known to me.   <br /> <br />Mr. Zanker begins by relating the beginnings of Pompeii as an Oscan city and traces its development through the Social War, when Sulla settled veterans in the city, and into the Augustan period.  The latter was arguably the golden age of Pompeii when the emperor took an interest in the city (by having an imperial aqueduct diverted to the city) and was a period of great civic building.   The author provides a glimpse into some of the current theories about the city, such as did the wealthy leave Pompeii following the earthquake of 62?  This is a theory that could use a chapter on its own and gets a page of discussion here.  Another interesting discussion has to do with the reconstruction following the earthquake in 62 CE. Why were buildings like the basilica, and other civic buildings, left in ruins?  One possibility is that buildings were rebuilt because there were fraternal groups that needed the use of the buildings (like the worshipers of Isis).  Buildings like the amphitheater were repaired but the theaters were not.  <br /> <br />So this is a good introduction to the private homes of Pompeii: a book that can be read and followed up by more in depth reading.  It is a fascinating look at the public and private sides of the city, illustrated nicely, and well written.   Highly recommended.    <br />	2005-03-18
US	52790591	R2A0E3PI2EJN9Z	0789495694	83392245	Naples & the Almalfi Coast (Eyewitness Travel Guides)	Books	5	21	21	N	Y	An Essential Travel Book	This book on Naples and the Amalfi Coast has been the best and most valuable guide book to the region.  This Eyewitness guide, as is the case with the entire series, is very nicely laid out.  The map of Naples under the front cover is color coded and provides highlights in each.  The colors of the map relate to the sections in the book relating to the main areas of the city.  The book nicely covers the history of Naples, art and architecture and culture, the environment and items of local interest.        Each section of the book that covers an area of Naples beings with a map numbered for the locations of items of interest.  Each of the numbered locations is then described with a picture proving relevant information (sometimes in a colored box labeled \\"Visitor Checklist\\") such as opening times, how to get there and the main items to see.  Important buildings, such as the Duomo, are illustrated with a colored cutaway drawing, showing a bit of the exterior and the interior plan, with the location of art work and places of special interest.  Each page is full of information and often the photograph of the site brings something of interest to my attention that I may not pay any attention to in an un-illustrated book.  The Amalfi Coast follows the chapters on Naples and is described in the same fashion.  A map of the coast with number sights begins this section. Places, such as Pompeii and Herculaneum, are given a good overview with descriptions of the main sights and photographs.  For surrounding areas like Capri and Ischia (covered on only 2 pages) there is not a lot of information which makes an additional book necessary.  There is good information on how to get to destinations in the Naples area.              The descriptions are succinct and well-written, the aim being not to waste words or space.  The Traveler Needs section provides good information on hotels, restaurants and shopping.  Although I used additional guide books to discover information about hotels and restaurants I also referred to this book.  The final section, Survival Guide, is a wealth of information about getting around Naples and the Amalfi coast.  For example, this book is the only one I saw that had a map of the Metro stops in Naples, and you can tie this map to the detailed maps of the city to determine how the stops are connected.  The several pages of maps are the best that I have seen in a guidebook: you can find any location on Naples using these maps.  The maps are easy to access and follow from page to page and have detailed information like where pharmacies are located.      This guidebook is the kind that always finds a place in my luggage.  It is easy to become familiar with an unfamiliar place and is a storehouse of practical information.	2005-03-10
US	52790591	RM8DGNUPFSOFN	0300098227	829168970	J. M. Barrie and the Lost Boys: The Real Story Behind Peter Pan	Books	4	32	33	N	Y	An Excellent Biography	I bought a copy of Andrew Birkin's book after seeing \\"Finding Neverland,\\" which sparked my interest in the real J.M. Barrie.  My interest was to uncover some of the truth behind the story of the film knowing full well that films cannot relate all of what happened. I have never seen Peter Pan on the stage and only know the play from film versions, so I was also interested in where Barrie's ideas for his creation came from.  This book is really an illustrated biography with each page having one or more photographs.  The selection of photographs almost succeeeds in telling the story without the words.  The book begins by traceing the life and James Barrie in the initial chapters; his education, family, the ealy death of one of his brothers (which may have been one of the influences of Peter Pan) and how he embarked on his literary career.  The turning point of the book arrives where Barrie meets George Llewellyn Davies in Kensington Gardens, which leads to his relationship with the Sylvia Llewellyn Davis, her husband Arthur and their growing family.      Mr. Birkin does a magnificent job in setting the stage with his background of the families of Sylvia and Arthur how Barrie's relationship with their five sons developed.  We are given a lot of detail up the the death of Michael by drowning (certainly a suicide).  The remainder of Barrie's life (from 1921 to 1937) is related in a brief epiloge.  It seems that Mr. Birkin ackowledges that the key to Barrie's life was Michael and upon his death there is not much to relate.     Mr. Birkin does a great job tracing the development of Peter Pan.  I found my interest flagging, however, after the death of Sylvia, particularly in Mr. Birkin's quoting of letters, sometimes one letter being followed by another and another. I was wishing that he had extrapolated his sources into his own narrative of events and I often skipped reading the letters as they became tedious in advancing his story.  Ultimately, J. M. Barrie remains an enigma for me; I know much more about him and his relationship with his boys but his personality is still mysterious.  The story is also a sad one marked by many tragic events.  One cannot help feeling that the lives of the Llewellyn Davies children were blighted by the tragic events of the early deaths of their parents, the First World War and the deaths of George and Michael.     I would recommend this book highly to anyone wanting to know more about J. M. Barrie and Peter Pan but I also think that it is not a definitive book and more could and should be written about this author and his relationships.	2005-03-04
US	52790591	R3AZBMBROYVNL4	0786710179	800995006	The Story of San Michele	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Book to Cherish	How can one write a review of The Story of San Michele that comes close to doing justice to the book?  There are many humorous episodes, such as The Giant and Mamsell Agata, touches of the macabre in the description of the cholera epidemic in Naples, misadventures, like the journey to Sweden accompanying a young man (then his corpse).  There are also angry moments, as when his dog Tom is brutally kicked by the slimy Vicomte Maurice.  Who could not be moved by the story of the boy John, who was rescued by Munthe but never lived long enough to find a loving home.  It is a book that includes many memorable events in a life that was very full indeed.  Many of the chapters in this book could be made into marvelous films, given the right adaptation. <br /> <br />The Story of San Michele is very well written, to say the least, and the many people, events and personal feelings of the author combine to make this a special adventure.  Perhaps most special of all is Axel Munthe's relationship to animals that allowed him to get close, even to \\"wild\\" animals and have a special relationship with them.  He was a man who held nature and all life in special regard but was pragmatic in the face of illness and death.    <br /> <br />I have had a copy since 1988 and I have given Axel Munthe's book as a gift and been thanked for the introduction.  I could not recommend this book highly enough.      <br />	2005-01-27
US	52790591	R2ME09SYCCRI8N	0763174262	652798121	Black Cats 2005 Wall Calendar	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great Cat Calendar	There are a lot of pet oriented calendars there days but if you have a black cat, then this calendar is a must have.  I have had a Black Cat calendar for four years, prominently displayed on a wall in the den, and I have the 2005.  Each calendar has twelve outstanding photographs of sleek-furred black cats.  The poses are nicely set up and there is a good variety cats.  These are not cute holiday oriented pictures but professional photographs. The calendar has the usual holidays noted and the phases of the moon. A must have for anyone who loves black cats.	2005-01-03
US	52790591	R3AQGDKE2E5RB4	0520071662	342281020	Alexander of Macedon 356-323 B.C.: A Historical Biography	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A First Class Historical Biography	I have, in the wake of Oliver Stone's Alexander, been reading Peter Green's biography of Alexander.  I highly recommend this book for the wonderful writing of Mr. Green.  He has a way of writing that is never dry and has a great turn of phrase that makes reading everything he has written of great interest.  His outstanding writing ability is a reflection of Mr. Green's early literary writing in historical fiction.  One wants to read each sentence in this biography.  The book is simply divided into ten chapters and illustrated with several maps and diagrams.   <br /> <br />This book is essentially the 1974 edition with updates that bring in current scholarship.  Certainly, there is still a lot of speculation about Alexander, particularly concerning his death in Babylon.  In his preface, Mr. Green states that he was wrong about some of his conclusions and had provided footnotes to make his new points.  His revisions came after his monumental history of the Hellenistic period - Alexander to Actium - which gave him a greater perspective on Alexander himself. This biography has all that anyone would want when approaching ancient history.  Mr. Green discusses the ancient sources and modern historians, such as Tarn, who have made significant contributions to what we know about Alexander.  He has the critical eye necessary when examining critical events, such as the presumed plot against Alexander involving Parmenio's son Philotas.   <br /> <br />One could not ask for a better written or more insightful book into the life and times of Alexander III of Macedon.  This is a fascinating and probing book that remains fresh.  <br />	2005-01-03
US	52790591	R3KEE5U4N3CCAP	0679752684	529820051	The Sound of Waves	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A Charming and Well-Written Novel	Yukio Mishima wrote The Sound of Waves following a visit to Greece and his immersion in the literature of ancient Greece.  His fascination with the Mediterranean world and his affection for ancient literature (in particular, Daphnis and Chloe) is reflected in this sunny novel.  He produced a very approachable and charming story about a island fishing village, and it is no wonder that this book was the first selected for translation into English in 1956 (published in Japan in 1954).   <br /> <br />The novel centers around Shinji, a young fisherman, and Hatsue, who had been given away by her father Terukichi but was called back by him when his son died so he could marry his daughter and adopt the husband into his family.  The story follows what one would expect in a small village where everyone is known and gossip abounds.  It is assumed that Hatsue will marry Yasuo, who is from a family that is well off whereas Shinji is poor.  Love, however, takes a different hand and when Shinji and Hatsue see each other something begins that cannot be stopped.  Of course, there are obstacles in their way and Terukichi places his daughter under house arrest because of the gossip that has grown over their relationship.  But the reader understands early that Shinji is bound to triumph over adversity and win Hatsue because his character is noble and hard-working.  I don't think anyone would doubt the end of the novel; it is the character development and Mishima's powers of description that keep your attention. <br /> <br />What adds so much to this novel is Mishima's description of island life.  For example, he brilliantly describes the women divers who struggle to bring up abalone and notes how they cut their toes when they use their foot to push off the sea floor.  We also have descriptions of the men of the island relaxing in the bath-house, the meetings of the islands Young Men's Association and such mundane tasks as the women fetching water from the local spring.   <br /> <br />Mishima's fascination with the cultures of the Mediterranean did not last long and he repudiated The Sound of Waves.  This novel may not be characteristic of Mishima's writing but it is a good place to start to get to know his writing before advancing on into Confessions of a Mask.  The Sound of Waves is a lyrical and sunny book that deserves a high readership. <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-12-09
US	52790591	R2VOQ2TCYFAPFH	0815410743	95864818	The Life and Death of Yukio Mishima	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	A Standard Biography	The Life and Death of Yukio Mishima is, simply put, a definitive biography.   Henry Scott Stokes knew the author about as well as anyone could.  He accompanied Mishima and the members of the Shield Society to cover exercises the military group (formed by Mishima) carried out at Mt. Fuji in 1969 and knew him from 1966 until his suicide by hara-kiri in November 1970.  Mr. Stokes includes a lot of detail concerning this training exercise, during which he met Mishima's disciple Morita, who committed hara-kiri with him just over a year later.          Mr. Stokes, being a noted journalist, provides an excellent approach to Mishima's life.  At the outset, the sensational death of the artist is related in detail.  I liked this approach because Mishima's life and work has been overshadowed by his death, so taking us through the ordeal allows us to concentrate on his life and learn soothing about what made him seek the death he did.    Also valuable is Mr. Stokes' residence in Japan, which gives him invaluable knowledge on Japanese society, giving us a background for many of Mishima's attitudes.  The major literary works are explained in excellent detail with what Mr. Stokes considers minor works (such as \\"The Sailor Who Fell from Grace with the Sea\\") being only briefly mentioned.  This fits well with the aim of the book: to provide an in-depth look at the forces that influenced Mishima.  The Sea of Fertility cycle receives a great deal of attention.  The book also has a chapter that discusses Mishima's reputation since his death. In this section Mr. Stokes draws some interesting conclusions about the relationship between Mishima and Morita.    I have also read John Nathan's biography of Yukio Mishima, which presents an excellent portrait of the writer, particularly in describing his literary career.  However, I find it is Mr. Stokes' book that provides a more in-depth portrait of Mishima. I would still recommend Mr. Nathan's book as a highly readable biography.  Mr. Stokes'book is very well written with great attention to detail and should not be missed by anyone seriously interested in who Yukio Mishima was and what drove him.     There is a useful glossary and a chronology of Mishima's life, and is illustrated with photographs and drawings.	2004-11-19
US	52790591	R1NZOAMB0IZFWE	0761133739	565968816	The Original 365 Cats Page-A-Day Calendar 2005 (Color Page a Day Calendars)	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	The One and Only Cat Calendar	This is an essential calendar for cat lovers.  I have been using the cats page-a-day calendar since it was printed in black-and-white (and just got my 2005). It has and good mix of funny snapshots along with well-posed photographs of cats. Award winning photographs are presented at the beginning of the year and for each week. Each day offers some bit of good information, quotes, facts about cats or just the story behind the photograph. It is a calendar that I like to page through and I save the discarded days for use as scratch paper.  The plastic base can be recycled at the end of the year. All cat lovers should have one.	2004-10-04
US	52790591	RFZWG1E61MK7B	0802139868	81595846	The Sexual Life of Catherine M.	Books	3	10	15	N	N	Interesting But Repetitive	It has been said of the books by Henry Miller and Anais Nin that they considered every trivial event that happened to them to be worthy of reporting.  It seems to me that Catherine Millet holds the same idea when she wrote her sexual memoir.  What struck me about this book is Ms. Millet's total absorption into her sexual life, as if just this part of her existence is what drives her.  I had read about Ms. Millet's book before I purchased a copy.   What influenced me was that this book was an honest record of a woman's sexuality.  However, I would have to agree with other reviewers that after the first 50 pages I found the reading a bit boring.     What I got from this book is that Millet's sexual encounters are like a drug: she achieves momentary satisfaction but requires higher doses, and more outrageous acts.  One of the more bizarre episodes was the interview she gave to a journalist friend where relates how much she enjoys the self-abasement of her sexual activities.  At times, Ms. Millet thinks of herself as an unpaid prostitute and wonders why she does not take money from the men she services.  It appeared to me that Ms. Millet found sex a compulsion and an outlet for her exhibitionist nature, a pleasure but one that does not satisfy.     The book is translated from the French and not having the original text I cannot judge the accuracy but the words flow well.  Once you begin reading, the repetitive sexual encounters blur and cease to be shocking or revealing.  There is no time line so you are not sure about what period in her life she is talking about.  I would have preferred a book that was organized like a biography instead of the loose time association she adopts.   Because I found that my interest in the book was not sustained I have given it 3 stars.  I still can recommend it to the curious but with the caveat that it may not meet your expectations.	2004-08-13
US	52790591	R1RY8YYIV7P2BW	0500542678	798345535	Henri Cartier-Bresson: The Man, the Image & the World: A Retrospective	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	A Great Tribute	This is a wonderful book.  I can think of no better volume about the life work of a photographer that this one of Henri Cartier-Bresson.   The book has 602 illustrations consisting of M. Bresson's photographs, his paintings and drawings and family photographs.  The family photographs are among the most interesting since we have collected, in one volume, probably all of the photographs taken of the photographer (including an interesting seated portrait of M. Bresson as a prisoner of war). There are some excellent essays by the editors about the photographer and the formulation of the \\"decisive moment\\" and his work but the photographs are allowed to speak for themselves.      The photographs are placed in the order M. Bresson published them.  Each section of photographs is preceded by a quote that has a bearing on the pictures and a small picture of the cover of the original book is included with the photographs.   Each picture is simply captioned with the place or circumstance and the year it was taken. Many of the images are famous and there are also many discoveries that will enthrall the view.  The photographs are reproduces in different sizes and some are smaller than I would like but the overwhelming majority are nicely laid out and grouped.   There are excellent appendices that give publication information on M. Bresson's photographs and a timeline of his life.      In short, this is a marvelous book that anyone interested in photography must have.  The comment by another reviewer concerning the size of the volume was no problem for me: my bookshelves can accommodate any size of book.  But even if I had no space on my shelves, I would make room for this volume.	2004-08-12
US	52790591	R1BNAHKCC8TJZJ	0816637814	852426575	Louise Brooks: A Biography	Books	5	50	51	N	Y	The Best Star Biography Written	This is arguably the best biography of a film star.  Barry Paris has investigated the tempestuous life of Louise Brooks so thoroughly that any other volume on her life would pale by comparison. The book is well written and goes into great detail about Louise Brooks' life and why she seemed to make her suicidal career choices. Mr. Paris also provides his readers with a good background to the world of Louise Brooks.  We learn about modern dance when discussing Brooks' invitation to join Denishawn dancers, about George White and the Scandals and Ziegfeld and his Follies when Brooks danced for them and about the silent film world and the struggles of the industry to cope with the advent of sound.     <br /> <br />Mr. Paris delves deeply into Louise Brooks' relationship with her family and lovers, and devotes a wonderful chapter on G. W. Pabst and the making of Pandora's Box.  While reading the book, I was drawn to see her films and enjoyed them much more with the insight provided by Mr. Paris.  The working relationship between the actors involved in Pandora's Box was particularly illuminating and I had a greater appreciation of Louise Brooks' performance.   <br /> <br />The most tantalizing aspect of Louise Brooks is her career suicide.  One wonders how she could have so casually ended her career in films when she was an up-and-coming star.  She was equally difficult with her dancing partners when she briefly returned to professional dancing, and even her the vain attempts to work as a store clerk.   Louise Brooks had an astonishing intellect, so much so that many of the men in her life felt threatened by her but despite her intelligence she was never able to find a satisfying life for herself.  Eventually, she found a kind of niche in her writing.  Mr. Paris examines all of her contradictions thoughtfully but does not present a definitive conclusion.  I liked the way the biography stuck to presenting the life of Louise Brooks without any attempt to moralize or judge; the facts and background are left for the reader to contemplate.  I found the book very thought provoking. <br /> <br />The book is nicely illustrated, including a short gallery of Louise Brooks' best portraits.   This is a fascinating biography of a natural actress who had a loathing for the profession; a woman who could be a good friend and equally suddenly turn against them.  This is a book that should not be missed even if someone does not have an interest in silent films.  <br />	2004-07-28
US	52790591	R38BF6CN853AVA	0671664271	954102735	Lost Horizon	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Classic Story	My interest in reading Lost Horizon came from having seen the Frank Capra film several times.  I was aware that the produces of the film had tried to remain as close to the book as possible but I found the differences between the book and the film to be refreshing.<br />Lost Horizon is a riveting book that is difficult to put down.  One might classify the book as part adventure, part philosophy in the blending of the exotic location and Christian and Buddhist beliefs.  It is needless to say that the book is well written; the chapter I found of highest interest is Robert Conway's conversation with the High Lama.  The writing of that chapter was so very natural and the discussion of such interest it was like being an observer of the scene, and was a chapter I did not want to break.<br />The characters of the four kidnapped people, Mallinson, Miss Brinklow, Barnard and Conway are subtly drawn and their different reactions to Shangri-La are interesting.  Miss Brinklow wants to create a Christian mission, Barnard is eluding the law and happy to have found a safe haven and Mallinson cannot be reconciled with the peaceful paradise of the lamasery; but it is Conway, of course, who has center stage. The character of Conway, a world-weary man who discovers that Shangri-La as a place of destiny, must reflect much from the personality of James Hilton.  Conway is very complex; a person who has wisdom beyond his years but is not, as he confesses, a hero and is partly a coward.  Indeed, Conway's firm decision to remain at Shangri-La is successfully changed by Mallinson.  The conversation between the High Lama and Conway expresses many ideas that applied to Hilton's time and also to the present day.  The description by the High Lama of the \\"coming storm\\" struck me as appropriate for today.  In Hilton's time there was the threat of war on a vast scale as Japan had its eye on occupying large parts of China and the rise of Fascism.  Today, it is world terrorism and leaders that want to take us into war without having a clue to the consequences.<br />In short, this is a marvelous tale that is fantastic to read; a book that one can re-read with great pleasure.nt to take us into war without having a clue to the consequences.<br />In short, this is a marvelous tale that is fantastic to read; a book that one can re-read with great pleasure.	2004-07-02
US	52790591	R21CFTEEJPBA0N	0393020282	114452961	The Battle That Stopped Rome: Emperor Augustus, Arminius, and the Slaughter of the Legions in the Teutoburg Forest	Books	5	9	13	N	N	A Battle That Changed the World	The Battle That Stopped Rome is a highly informative book the famous battle of Teutoburg Forest and also has a wealth of information about how the two adversaries lived and fought.   Peters Wells provides fascinating data about the development of the Germanic tribes from more peaceful pursuits to their increasing militarization in the wake of the Roman conquest of Gaul.  Readers also learn much about the daily lives of the Roman soldiers, their battle tactics and how Arminius was able to stage his ambush to the best advantage of the weakness of the Romans.  <br />We learn how the Romans underestimated the Germans, believing that they were inferior warriors, the many invasions from that of Julius Caesar to Nero Claudius Drusus and Tiberius and the idea that claiming the Germans had been conquered was propaganda when the Romans had never been able to engage them in a pitched battle.  Mr. Wells provides an excellent background of the establishment of the Rhine frontier and its fortifications. <br />Mr. Wells has produced a well-written, sometimes riveting book about the massacre.  The opening chapter, titled Ambushed, is an interesting piece of writing where the author places himself at the battle, vividly describing the action.  The book goes on to describe the finding of the battle site, the topography and the importance of the German victory to the Germans of later times, like Martin Luther who gave Arminius the name Hermann when he began his own struggle against the Pope.  Arminius and Varus are are the subjects of an in-depth portraits and Mr. Wells provides an admirable description of the development of German villages, their communications and the change in the tribes to producing more weapons and their importance to the men fighting the Romans. <br />The highlight of the book is the detailed description of the battle of the Teutoburg Forest: how the Romans came to be ambushed and how the battle was conducted.  The details of the battle are broken down step by step from the Romans entering the trap, the springing of the attack, the inability of the Romans to fight to their advantage, the slaughter of the three legions and the aftermath of the battle when the Germans sanctified the site.  Mr. Wells provides as complete a view of this turning point battle as is possible relating the archaeological findings to the events of the battle and how the Roman world changed due to the dramatic loss of the three legions. <BR>  <BR>This is a book aimed more for the general reader of history.  There are chapters on life in Rome and a short biography of Augustus that provide thumbnail sketches.  As someone whose reading is extensive in ancient history, I found this material a bit boring and skimmed through it.  There are no footnotes but each chapter has a section of suggested further reading.  My only complaint is that Mr. Wells quotes Tacitus and other authors but does not provide the citation in the works of those authors.  I think if one is going to quote from Tacitus mention of where in the text the quote occurs is required.   <br />My complaint aside, this is a fascinating look at a battle that changed history and the lives of the participants.	2004-06-08
US	52790591	RDE99Q13GDP4W	0674990226	228422219	Quintus Smyrnaeus: The Fall of Troy (Loeb Classical Library No. 19)	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	Troy After the Iliad	I agree with the other reviewers that the language of this translation should be updated.  It was made in 1913 and has a Biblical usage in words like \\"thy\\", \\"thou\\", \\"twixt', \\"twain\\" etc.  The story Quintus tells has been told by other authors, such as the Aethiopis (which tells of Memnon's role in the war) but this book has put together these diverse stories in the 14 books of this volume.  The author, known as Quintus of Smyrna, wrote his epic poem in the 3rd century.  He speaks about himself in Book 13 lines 308-313 and that is all that is really known about Quintus.<br />Strangely, Quintus downplays some highly dramatic moments, such as the killing of Achilles by leaving Paris out of the shooting of the arrow.  Apollo shoots what is obviously a poisonous arrow into the vulnerable spot if Achilles' heel but there is little in the way of dramatic description.  However, Quintus makes up for this lack of drama in his telling of the madness of Aias and the fall of Troy in Book 13.  The slaughtering of the inhabitants, caught off-guard by the trick of the wooden horse leaves a strong impression.  Quintus has obviously been saturated in the spirit of Homer and it shows throughout the story, so despite some antiquated language, at times, this is an important epic poem filling in the story where the Iliad leaves off.  The introduction is excellent in relating the influences of Quintus and how he differs in his telling of the fall of Troy. If you have an interest in the Trojan War than this book is a necessity.	2004-05-28
US	52790591	R3MB0BKV32ATFQ	158567348X	460811626	Greek Fire, Poison Arrows & Scorpion Bombs: Biological and Chemical Warfare in the Ancient World	Books	5	9	14	N	N	An Outstanding and Much Needed Book	Greek Fire is an extraordinary book.  To put the subject of the book plainly, it deals with biological and chemical warfare in the ancient world from myth to history.   I had not given much thought to the use of chemical and biological agents in the ancient world, focussing instead on the more familiar weaponry and tactics.  The majority of historians and certainly the people we know probably believe that chemical weapons were created in World War I, with the advent of mustard and other gasses. This is very far from the truth and Adrienne Mayor provides us with the missing link in the ancient world: the use of dangerous agents to cause mass destruction.  <br />The book is well organized into subjects dealing first with the mythic origin of chemical weapons: Hercules and the Hydra.  Ms. Mayor proceeds to discuss poisoned arrows, defeating enemies by poisoning water and diverting streams, winning a victory by poisoning the food your enemies will eat, the use of insects and animals against enemies and creating chemical weapons, such as flame throwers.   We learn that the ancients understood that animals such as rats and mice were the cause of plagues, how shamans went out to gather dangerous plants and how they were handled in the preparation of weapons and how real Pandora's boxes existed filled with plague-generating material.  <br />Ms. Mayor often includes modern parallels to the ancient stories, including recent events, to show that the use of chemical and biological weapons were (and still are) used to create fear of the weapon.  I found it surprising to learn that Winston Churchill ordered poison gas used against the Kurds in the 1920s.  This book is a wealth of information about the development and use of chemical and biological weapons in the ancient world, the feeling engendered about the weapons and the clever stratagems employed many times in the use of these weapons.  As one reads this book, its importance becomes more evident with each chapter and you wonder why no one has come to realize the long history of terror weapons and how people felt centuries ago is still relevant to our time.  Greek Fire is a well-written and its subjects are thoroughly discussed.  It is a hard book to put down and will not disappoint.	2004-04-24
US	52790591	R2TTWUQ53J1TGF	037575895X	155280014	Cicero: The Life and Times of Rome's Greatest Politician	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An Outstanding Biography	Anthony Everitt has written a highly readable biography of Cicero that has appeal to a general reader and specialists in Roman history.   Mr. Everitt's writes passionately about his subject but also recognizes Cicero's faults and failings.  I was relieved that Mr. Everitt did not give us extended quotations from Cicero's letters and other works.  I have read biographies were the author has relied too heavily on extended quotations from his subject: Mr. Everitt relates Cicero's life in his own words.   The book is also well paced with each chapter covering a particular aspect of Cicero's life.  <br />For readers new to the study of ancient history, Mr. Everitt includes digressions on Roman marriage ceremonies, the administration of the Roman State administration, what a triumph was and other subjects.  I was acquainted with these facts but enjoyed reading them and did not find them intrusive.   Mr. Everitt knows Cicero and speaks eloquently on the life of his subject and the period in which he lived.  The author provides good background on other important figures in Cicero's life, such as Caesar, Marc Antony, and Sulla, including Cicero's family and his long relationship with Atticus and Pompey.  Mr. Everitt, instinctively, know how much detail to include in his book so that the reader is satisfied and not assailed by facts.  This is a book that does not disappoint and one that is hard to put down.	2004-03-31
US	52790591	RS7IQ14S3ZKE0	0816643865	42939265	James Whale: A New World Of Gods And Monsters	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	A Definitive Biography	After seeing the film \\"Gods and Monsters\\" I was anxious to read a biography of James Whale.   This book by James Curtis certainly fits the bill of a complete biography of its subject.  Mr. Curtis was a close friend of David Lewis, who lived with James Whale for several years and saw to it after the director's death that his memory lived on.  <br />Mr. Curtis gives us a lot of detail about James Whale's life and I sometimes found myself skimming a bit, particularly in the beginning of his career as an actor.  We get a lot of information about the films Mr. Whale directed, including the story behind the fascinating effects in The Invisible Man.  The book is illustrated with numerous photographs spread through the book and is well written, particularly when Mr. Curtis speaks of James Whale in his years of retirement.   The book is a must for fans of the Frankenstein movies and people interested in Universal Pictures but for the person who knows James Whale only thought his horror films, this book with bring a much needed perspective on his life.    I found myself wanting to see the James Whale films as I was reading, including Show Boat and his lesser known films.  In sum, this is an interesting portrait of who James Whale was and what Hollywood was like in the 1930s.	2004-02-18
US	52790591	R33IZ3320GG9YS	0679428895	451458080	Pompeii: A Novel	Books	5	72	76	N	N	Pompeii Comes Alive	Pompeii by Robert Harris has received some excellent reviews, and it was on the strength of these that I decided to read the book.  I was not disappointed. Mr. Harris does have the gift of giving his reading the feel of a place and time.  He breathes life into the late first century and presents the many facts and customs in a way that sparks interest and not boredom.  The novel begins on August 22, 79 CE, and the chapters are cleverly organized following the Roman hours of the day and also give the actual hour when the events are taking place.  Each chapter is prefaced with an excerpt from a technical work on volcanology that provides the reader with an idea of the activity going on inside Mount Vesuvius.  <br />The story revolves around the Aqua Augusta, an aqueduct that the protagonist of the story, Marcus Attilius Primus, first becomes the aquarius (the person responsible for maintaining the structure) of the aqueduct and then searches for a break that prevents the flow of water to the drought stricken countryside.   Atillius is a noble character, an imperial official who takes pride in his work and is incorruptible.  But he is now in the self-proclaimed city-on-the-make: Pompeii.<br />Along the way we meet Ampliatus, a wealthy freedman who is, ironically, marrying his daughter to Popilius, his old master.  Ampliatus represents a long line of uncouth and ambitious freedmen that came to dominate the principate in the early empire under Claudius and Nero.  Mr. Harris paints a probing and revealing portrait of Ampliatus and draws an inevitable comparison with Trimalchio of Petronius' Satyricon, with the freedman presiding over a similar overly sumptuous banquet Ampliatus.  As a classicist, I found the banquet scene a little too reminiscent of the novel by Petronius.  The characterization was a little too close and I did not want a parody of that famous literary banquet scene.  However, I think Mr. Harris more than makes up for identifying his character so closely with Petronius by giving him a darker and more ruthless side.  <br />Ampliatus' daughter Corelia is the conscience that her father does not have.  She is a teenager of marriageable age and chafes under the ruthless nature of her father and her own helplessness before her own loveless marriage.  The novel presents an interesting portrait of Pliny the Elder that I found captured his interest in the world around him and his battle of filling his days with as much activity as possible.  We also have the embittered Corax; the overseer of the men who maintain the aqueduct, an enemy of Attilius, who is ready to do anything to get rid of the \\"new man in town.\\" <br />A central part of the story is the mysterious disappearance of Atillius' predecessor Exomnius.  Is he alive or dead?  Little by little Attilius pieces together Exomnius' background and his association with Ampliatus, a revelation that places his life in jeopardy.  In the background is Vesuvius.  We know the catastrophe that is about to happen and look on as the trembling of the earth raises the curiosity of Pliny and the rumblings of the volcano remind people of thunder and giants.  <br />Pompeii is a well-conceived novel that presents a plausible story populated with flesh-and-blood characters.  It is a fast-paced book that is a joy to read; a book that is hard to put down, and a must read for people interested in ancient history or who find the city of Pompeii a fascinating place.	2004-01-17
US	52790591	R2BXW8YHDV26MA	0300091966	646100574	Livia: First Lady of Imperial Rome	Books	5	21	21	N	N	The Real Livia	Anthony Barrett has written another excellent biography. Livia is an historical figure who has been much maligned over time and effectively turned into a ruthless serial killer in order to see her son Tiberius as emperor. Reality is a different matter and Livia emerges as an intelligent, beautiful and caring woman whose life was generally restrained by having no official political position. As Augustus' wife, she could exert a great deal of influence but until he death, when she was adopted into the Julian gens and given the title name Augusta. Mr. Barrett has examined Livia's life in detail as the wife of the princeps, the mother of the second emperor, her role as a protector and benefactor and her public and her private life. <br />Among the bits of interesting information I found was that Livia gave an allowance to the Elder and Younger Julia's after they had been sent into exile that lasted for the rest of their lives. Also of interest was Livia's healthy habits, which included drinking red wine each day, and that she underwent grief management after the death of her son Drusus.. <br />Mr. Barrett separates some more specialized discussions in the appendix, dealing with such topics as Livia's name and birth to Livia's relations with Agrippina the Elder etc. The book is invaluable for the detailed listing of sources of information about Livia, including inscriptions, sculptures, books and articles and a list of abbreviations of ancient authors and their individual works. In short, this is as complete a biography of Livia that we will have in English.	2003-05-16
US	52790591	R2N4F03CF289TB	0226469409	627065254	The Iliad of Homer	Books	5	86	93	N	N	An Outstanding Translation	I am happy to see that this translation of The Iliad of Homer has remained in print.  My copy is over 25 years old and I still regard it as my favorite.  Mr. Lattimore has sought to preserve the meaning of the Greek words and the didactic hexameter rhythm, including the additional phrases (such as the warlike, breaker of horses etc.) that make the Iliad poetry to be recited, not read.  I like the flow of the words and their cadence, and sometimes read aloud.<br />Also of importance is the introduction to the Iliad by Mr. Lattimore where he provides an analysis of the poem, the Iliad in the context of the story of Troy, the unity of the poem and the figures that populate this heroic tale.  This book is not only an outstanding translation but is also a resource for understanding the Iliad. Many scholars have regarded Lattimore's as the finest translation of the Iliad and I think that time has proved this to be an accurate prediction.	2003-03-25
US	52790591	R12E7F8F6AQLGZ	1559705450	514126318	Memories of the Great and the Good	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A Good Read	Prior to buying this volume of Alistair Cooke's writings, I knew him only as the former host of Masterpiece Theater, with his career as a journalist being only something I had heard about.    The essays collected here are from various periods of Mr. Cooke writing career (1957 through 1999) and include a diverse group of people, including Frank Lloyd Wright, Irma Bombeck, Gary Cooper, Barry Goldwater and Eleanor Roosevelt .  Each essay is rather short, averaging about ten pages.  I read a comment by a reviewer that Mr. Cooke was excellent at creating a \\"portrait\\" of his subjects.  While this is probably true, \\"Memoirs of the Great and Good\\" aims more at anecdotes and episodes, that Mr. Cooke elaborates upon, rather than having the detail and depth of a short biography.  Many were written upon the death of the subject, so they are valedictory in tone.  The essay about FDR relates an occurrence that happened to Mr. Cooke when he encountered the President as he was arriving to give a speech at Harvard.  The last piece is a book review of \\"The Last Lion\\" by William Manchester, a biography of Winston Churchill, that gives us an insightful look into the early years of Churchill.  <br />In sum, I found these essays to be thoughtfully written and compulsive to read. It was surprising to realize how quickly I went through the book.	2003-01-06
US	52790591	R5R1X74392RL4	0550190031	306768510	Chambers Murray Latin-English Dictionary	Books	5	32	32	N	Y	A Very Useful Dictionary	I ordered this dictionary after reading the reviews.  I agree with the reviewer from Little Rock; the dictionary is very useful and contains a wealth of information on Latin words.  It has been a great help for me in translating poets like Martial and Statius. I have difficulty understanding why the reviewer from Israel did not know this was a Latin to English only dictionary; the title clearly explains the purpose of this book.  Also, the entries are a standard dictionary size font; they are not unusually small.  Unless you want to buy a copy of the Oxford Latin Dictionary... then this dictionary will suit the needs of translating from Latin into English.	2002-12-05
US	52790591	R31P6A76AVS9F1	0674994663	163142203	Plutarch: Moralia, Volume VIII, Table-talk, Books 1-6 (Loeb Classical Library No. 424)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Dinner Conversations	Referring to these as \\"Moral Works\\" puts a formidable label on Plutarch's writings; they are literary works on a wide variety of subjects.  This volume represents six books concerned with table talk.  Plutarch recorded the questions asked during dinner for his friend Sossius Senecio.  Each book consists of ten questions.  Some topics chosen at random are: \\"Why old men hold writing at a greater distance for reading\\", \\"Concerning Alexander's Excessive Drinking\\", \\"Why men are hungrier in autumn\\", \\"Whether flower garlands should be used at drinking-parties\\" and \\"Why truffles are thought to be produced by thunder, and why people believe that sleepers are never struck by thunder.\\"<br />This is more or less light reading.  Some aspects of life in ancient times come up, some things that are no longer believed (old men get drunk faster because they are dried up and so absorb the wine) and some are illuminating.  This is a fun book to browse through.  Inevitably, some topic will appeal and others will not.  It is an interesting view into the opinions that came up during ancient evenings over the dinner table.	2002-11-27
US	52790591	RQ36EGFXATD6A	0674994663	163142203	Plutarch: Moralia, Volume VIII, Table-talk, Books 1-6 (Loeb Classical Library No. 424)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Dinner Conversations	Referring to these as \\"Moral Works\\" puts a formidable label on Plutarch's writings; they are literary works on a wide variety of subjects.  This volume represents six books concerned with table talk.  Plutarch recorded the questions asked during dinner for his friend Sossius Senecio.  Each book consists of ten questions.  Some topics chosen at random are: \\"Why old men hold writing at a greater distance for reading\\", \\"Concerning Alexander's Excessive Drinking\\", \\"Why men are hungrier in autumn\\", \\"Whether flower garlands should be used at drinking-parties\\" and \\"Why truffles are thought to be produced by thunder, and why people believe that sleepers are never struck by thunder.\\"  <br />This is more or less light reading.  Some aspects of life in ancient times come up, some things that are no longer believed (old men get drunk faster because they are dried up and so absorb the wine) and some are illuminating.  This is a fun book to browse through.  Inevitably, some topic will appeal and others will not.  It is an interesting view into the opinions that came up during ancient evenings over the dinner table.	2002-11-27
US	52790591	R1MNS6DEPA80LP	0674994663	163142203	Plutarch: Moralia, Volume VIII, Table-talk, Books 1-6 (Loeb Classical Library No. 424)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Dinner Conversations	Referring to these as \\"Moral Works\\" puts a formidable label on Plutarch's writings; they are literary works on a wide variety of subjects.  This volume represents six books concerned with table talk.  Plutarch recorded the questions asked during dinner for his friend Sossius Senecio.  Each book consists of ten questions.  Some topics chosen at random are: \\"Why old men hold writing at a greater distance for reading\\", \\"Concerning Alexander's Excessive Drinking\\", \\"Why men are hungrier in autumn\\", \\"Whether flower garlands should be used at drinking-parties\\" and \\"Why truffles are thought to be produced by thunder, and why people believe that sleepers are never struck by thunder.\\"  <br />This is more or less light reading.  Some aspects of life in ancient times come up, some things that are no longer believed (old men get drunk faster because they are dried up and so absorb the wine) and some are illuminating.  This is a fun book to browse through.  Inevitably, some topic will appeal and others will not.  It is an interesting view into the opinions that came up during ancient evenings over the dinner table.	2002-11-27
US	52790591	R3Q974J7RG8HLQ	0967174805	154320488	Stranger in the Woods: A Photographic Fantasy (Nature)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Pure Magic	This is a magical book for people of all ages. The photography of Carl Sams II captures some beautiful moments as the animals of the forest discover the 'stranger' that children have built as a kind of Christmas present. The words that Jean Stoick wrote beautifully express the ideas found in each photograph, that such special places are shared and not owned. For me, it is the appreciation of nature, for all of the creature that live in wilderness areas, that makes this story so appealing. These days, with all of the threats from humans that deer and forest areas are under, it is good to see a story where such places ' they might be in our backyards ' are appreciated as a special place. It reminds me of special wooded places that no longer exist due to development. There was a suggestion that the deer photographed for this book were overpopulating their area of wilderness but, happily, it was proven to be untrue. <br />Stranger in the Woods has received many awards, and it is wonderful that a book that so simply teaches an appreciation of nature should receive so much attention. This book belongs on the shelf of all households.	2002-11-26
US	52790591	R2SLOEYZON3A1E	0761125345	792230024	Original 365 Cats 2003 Calendar	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	Essential Calendar for Cat Lovers	I have been using this calendar since it was printed in black-and-white.  It has and good mix of funny snapshots along with  well-posed photographs of cats.  Each day offers some bit of   good information, quotes, facts about cats or just the story behind the photograph. It is a calendar that I like to page through, and I used the discarded days for scratch paper. All cat lovers should have one.	2002-11-21
US	52790591	R22Z42TXOYGCC8	1853994545	207214891	Suetonius: Domitian (Latin Texts)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	A Great Commentary on Suetonius Domitian	This book includes the complete Latin text and has a commentary on the text (in English), line by line, referenced by the chapter and line numbers. The commentary includes a discussion of the various historical interpretations with references to the relevant books and articles and so in invaluable as a resource.  The book also has an excellent bibliography.	2002-10-23
US	52790591	RBS1EPSIIS9NH	0195068181	627065254	The Odyssey of Homer: Translated by T.E. Lawrence	Books	5	23	24	N	N	An Oustanding Translation	I hesitated in buying this translation of the Odyssey having grown up with verse translations, most notably that of Fitzgerald.  A prose translation somehow put me off; it seemed like the very meaning of Homer's words would be rendered into something different.  One day, I read about the translation that T. E. Lawrence had made and, intrigued, I decided to read it for myself.  I was very glad that I did.<br />Lawrence made his translation with an eye for the details and color of the text.  He claimed that his experiences in the war in Arabia helped him to understand the writer of the Odyssey, and I think this did aid him in his approach to his translation.  The introduction to this printing of Lawrence's translation provides an interesting comparison to another widely used prose rendering of the Odyssey, and one can instantly discover how much more vivid and faithful Lawrence is to the original.  So, Lawrence's Odyssey is a translation I will return to in my future reading of this classic tale.	2002-10-11
US	52790591	RLQKWKAWBQCIG	0571199658	710962070	Nobody Said Not to Go: The Life, Loves, and Adventures of Emily Hahn	Books	5	23	23	N	N	A Life of Adventure	I knew nothing about Emily Hahn and I picked this book up being intrigued by a synopsis.  It is a very well written book about an extraordinary life.   Emily (Mickey) Hahn broke every convention of her time: a woman who studied mining engineering in collage, a lone white woman in Africa in the early 1930's, a single woman in China, an American \\"married\\" to a Chinese as his concubine and a journalist caught in the Japanese invasion of that country.  Hopefully, I have said enough to tickle the interest of would-be readers since I don't want to give away any more. <br />This is a life story that reads like a novel.  Why the Chinese portion of this book has not been made into a movie is a surprise to me.  There is a cinematic quality of Ms. Hahn's life in China (which she wrote about herself) that cries out for filming.  Ken Cuthbertson tells the story of this life without judgement calls does not clutter his book with useless facts.  The book is illustrated with photographs spread throughout the chapters where they are needed.   I could not recommend this book more highly.	2002-10-09
US	52790591	RRDES4XY1U098	0140187464	364993993	The Moon Is Down	Books	5	5	6	N	N	An Important Classic	I began reading this book without much background, but from the first page I was drawn into the story and set aside the other book I was reading.  This is an extraordinary book that contains a moral argument that can apply to any place and any time.  The story is told with an economy that is marvelous to behold.  Where other authors would have penned a weighty tome, Mr. Steinbeck presents the problems and personalities of his characters in just over 100 pages.  This is an ageless story of the conquered vs. the conqueror.  Although the setting offered is in Norway during the German occupation of the Second World War, it is a story that took place in many places with the same problems and arguments. <br />Perhaps the most interesting part of this book is that Mr. Steinbeck does not take sides.  The Germans are in Norway to do a job, to take away as much coal as they can, and the people in the village resist the invaders.  One of the pivotal characters is Colonel Lanser, a veteran of the First World War who knows what to expect from a conquered people.  He knows the various stages of resistance yet is also aware that he will follow orders and can do nothing to change the course events will take.  There is fatalism to all of the characters that they must do what they have to and cannot deviate from their courses: the conquered will resist, the conquerors will punish resistance.  The drama of this story is central to the story of Molly Morden, whose husband Alex is executed after he kills a German captain.  She finds herself face to face with a lonely German lieutenant who wants to talk with her.  She begins to see him as just another human being caught up in an impossible situation, but, eventually, he identity as one of the conquered overtakes these feelings.  We see both sides in this conflict as the human beings they are, caught up in an impossible situation. We find the conquerors caught in a no-win situation and the conquered certain that victory will be theirs, but at a terrible price. <br />I think this book should be taught in schools as it gives unlimited possibilities of discussion but also provides a realization that war is terrible for all, and no one has clean hands.  I highly recommend this book.	2002-09-24
US	52790591	R3ESFZ6GPFGMS3	0140042407	206112752	Tortilla Flat	Books	5	109	112	N	N	An Arthurian Marvel	Tortilla Flat was an actual place in Carmel that John Steinbeck placed in Monterey. He took some stories about the paisanos (a mixture of Spanish, Indian, Mexican and Caucasian bloods) that lived in this marginal place consisting of shacks and, using the style of the Arthurian legends, spun these tales about Danny and his friends. They are meant to be humorous and serious at times, and the characters are larger than life. Certainly, no one could live as Danny, Pilon, Jesus Marie, Big Joe Portagee and the Pirate, consuming wine by the gallon, eating whatever they can steal and taking up and whoring with any woman they want, but this is hardly the point. The tales have an epic proportion to them like Malory's knights of yore but from the vantagepoint of the New World. This makes Tortilla Flat an entertaining and cleverly written book.<br />Danny is the central character of the book and the anchor that holds his group of friends together. They may be vagabonds but they have a moral code. An example: the Pirate lives with five dogs in a chicken coop. He takes some kindling wood into town each day and receives a quarter for it. He does not spend the money but hoards it. The paisanos estimate it to be $100 and think of stealing it, but are unable to follow the Pirate to where he has hidden the money. To get around this problem they invite the Pirate to live with him and try to discover the whereabouts of the money by suggesting it could be stolen quite easily. The Pirate eventually brings the money to the paisanos and discloses why he is saving it: the money is to fulfill a promise made to St. Francis to present a golden candlestick to a church in the saints honor. Why? Because the saint cured an illness one of his dogs had. Once the paisanos know the money is for a religious purpose they guard it diligently. The chapter in Tortilla Flat when the Pirate's vow is fulfilled is one of the most beautiful and memorable in the book.<br />This is a beautifully written book filled with humor and pathos. Mr. Steinbeck was criticized in writing this book by some readers who could not enter into the spirit of the book thinking he was glorifying the free and easy lives of Danny and company. This was not his intention; he was only telling stories inspired by the free spirits of the paisanos. Unfortunately for us, this criticism was bitter and Mr. Steinbeck never undertook such a book again. It is our loss that he could not give us another Tortilla Flat.	2002-09-19
US	52790591	RM4WJ9TOKHRH9	0099589311	5108378	Charles Laughton	Books	4	21	22	N	N	A Great Biography About a Great Actor	I first learned about this biography when I heard Simon Callow talking about Charles Laughton: I ordered a copy immediately. The book is riveting. One could sit and read it for hours. Mr. Callow read everything he could about Mr. Laughton and interviewed as many people as he could (excepting Elsa Lanchester). The result is that he knows his subject and conveys the story of Mr. Laughton's acting life in a straightforward manner, providing interesting insights into the man and his approach to the acting profession. Here and there, Mr. Callow interjects his opinion to comment on something that has happened and it usually is a welcome and illuminating addition to the text. <br />The only problem with this book is that we get to know Charles Laughton the actor very well but do not get as much on his personal life. I was curious about the relationship between Charles Laughton and Elsa Lanchester worked.  We get some insight early on but most of it comes at the very end of the book in the \\"Coda\\" chapter.  It is only when Simon Callow tells us about Laughton's last year, when he was ill, that we get to know something about the lovers he had and his personality outside of acting. <br />Unfortunately, I found the various movies and plays Mr. Laughton acted in or directed rather tedious reading after a while.  There is so much information, particularly the quoting of reviews, that I became bored.   <br />In sum, a well-written book and a good biography of Charles Laughton the actor but I would have liked a little less on his professional life and and more about the flawed personality.	2002-08-20
US	52790591	R1TH15WD6BQF14	0750924470	250541184	Nero	Books	2	5	8	N	N	An Uneven and Disappointing Biography	...In preparation for the writing of a long article about Nero, I have read several biographies of the emperor, in particular Griffin, Grant, Weigall, Shotter, Walter and Warmington.  I have also collected many articles from journals to get additional points of view - and I must note that Mr. Holland does not list a single article in his bibliography.  It is clear that the author is deeply interested in ancient history but he falls short of his goal to rewrite the history of the maligned Nero.   Despite some excellent insights the discussion remains stuck in relating the ancient sources without asking questions.   What I took for a bold look at Nero turned out to be pretty much what others have said before, only they have done it much clearer. <br />I was particularly interested in what Mr. Holland had to say about the death of Agrippina, thinking he might have read the article by H. Dawson that seeks a different interpretation.   No such luck: Mr. Holland gives us the story straight out of Tacitus without wondering if these events really happened.  The story of Agrippina's murder is very theatrical and some doubts have been expressed as to if it was outright murder or did Nero's mother actually conspire against him?  How could all of the events: the collapse of the boat, Agrippina's rescue by an oysterman, her traveling back to her miles some miles away in a litter (borrowed?), Agrippina's arrival home, sending a message to Nero, her murder and cremation all in the hours from sometime after midnight to dawn.  There is plenty here for Mr. Holland to set the record straight about. Why then attempt to introduce the unsupportable suggestion that Nero was a masochist? <br />Mr. Holland often tries to rationalize events that other authors dismiss without giving good reasons.  For example, he accepts Poppaea's nagging as one of the causes of Agrippina's murder where all other authors understand this as a transposition of Tacitus to better explain why Nero acted.  Mr. Holland does have some good insight into Roman history, particularly in the administration of the empire.  I do find that his comparison between Jesus and Nero in his introduction is misplaced. The details about Pontius Pilate and the birth of Christianity were a needlessly protracted discussion.  The point was to discuss the Great Fire and how the Christians were chosen to be Nero's scapegoats. There also are some small outright errors in the text: Caligula's fourth (and final) wife was not younger but older by about 7 years, his brother Drusus was not exiled but imprisoned under the palace, there were attempts to force feed Agrippina the Elder and Aelia Patina was Claudius' second, not third wife.  These may be picky little errors but they are numerous. <br />In providing an historical background Mr. Holland tends to go overboard.  His summary of Caligula's reign provides more detail than necessary but he also cannot give a full discussion of the facts, particularly about Caligula's assassination.  There are three versions of the assassination but Mr. Holland relates only one (the only agreement between the ancient sources is that Caligula was not mortally wounded by the first blow).  The information about Caligula needed to be treated with less detail befitting his minor part in Nero's life. <br />I think this book is an opportunity missed.  Having read the larger share of books about Nero, not one by itself answered all of my questions about Nero.  Miriam Griffin's biography is the best but it is choppy and sometimes she provides no details about events.  If one wants to read a serious biography about Nero, go to Griffin.	2002-08-07
US	52790591	R2Y06M2GMYT0P1	0297766457	384781148	Portrait of a Marriage	Books	5	43	45	N	N	A Remarkable Journey	I have had a copy of \\"Portrait of a Marriage\\" since it was published in 1973.  For me, it has been a revelation on marriage, but it is also a story of two remarkable people: Vita Sackville-West and Harold Nicolson.  Nigel Nicolson relates the story of his mother's Sapphic affair with Violet (whose mother was the mistress of Edward VII) with great detachment, allowing Vita to speak for herself in the form of a secret diary.  The non-conformity of this marriage was the reason for its success and that it survived love affairs and differing interests speaks to us of the toleration, forgiveness and understanding that is lacking between so many married people.  This book was not put together by Nigel Nicolson as a guide to married life but is a story of the adventure of living. <br />It was from reading this book that I gained a deep interest in Vita and Harold.  I have read many of their books and paid the ultimate pilgrimage of a visit to Sissinghurst.  So, I highly recommend \\"Portrait of a Marriage\\" for the writing, an enlightening account of two people and a unique experience for the reader.	2002-07-23
US	52790591	R22K86179AGHH4	0810916746	558106203	Harold Lloyd: Master Comedian	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	A Book To Bring Smiles	This book truly is a labor of love. Absolutely everything one would want to know about Harold Lloyd is included in this handsomely designed book. We are given a great deal of information, with many stills, about the early short films Harold Lloyd made with Hal Roach. The first screen character he developed, Lonesome Luke, is given very good coverage with many photographs. Individual attention is given to the feature length films made during the 1920s, such as Safety Last, Hot Water and The Kid Brother, to Lloyd's last in 1947 - The Sin of Harold Diddlebock. A real treat is the forward by Jack Lemon, who knew Harold Lloyd and was going to play him in a film biography until the project fell through. <br />The participation of Lloyd's granddaughter Suzanne has meant everything to the success of this book. We can not only see some marvelous stills from Lloyd's movies but family photos. A very interesting photo is of Mr. Lloyd with the honorary Oscar he received in 1953. A short section gives us a look at Greenacres, Mr. Lloyd's palatial home. The appendix lists all of Harold Lloyd's appearances on film, radio and television. <br />In short, the warmth behind a Harold Lloyd film is carried through to this book. This is a marvelous introduction to the life and work of Harold Lloyd and also a volume that will be cherished by people who know and love his films. One can easily understand why Harold Lloyd was the Third Genius.	2002-06-05
US	52790591	RU1G8IXOL7O2T	0300078560	291742686	Agrippina: Sex, Power, and Politics in the Early Empire	Books	5	10	10	N	N	An Essential Biography	I have had a copy of this book since it was first published and have found it an invaluable resource.  Anthony Barrett discusses the life of Agrippina and her times completely, and presents a well-formed opinion on the more obscure and difficult aspects of Roman history.  Claudius, for example, comes off as being intelligent and politically astute rather than an ugly, dithering fool.  The complexities and politics of Claudius' reign are very well discussed.  Aspects of Agrippina's life (that are usually taken for granted) are examined in full by Mr. Barrett.  Did she poison Claudius?  It certainly appears to have suited her aims in keeping Nero as the sole heir to the empire but there are so many inconsistencies among ancient sources that renders it impossible to definitely say Agrippina did the crime.    Mr. Barrett also discusses the closing years of Agrippina's life as the Empress Mother particularly well.  He covers the lack of any information about her in sources and relates her presumed murder at Nero's hands in detail with a critical view of what Tacitus, Suetionius and Dio say what happened.  He does not go into detail concerning points of view that suggest Agrippina was, in truth, involved in a conspiracy but he does make mention of this idea and footnotes the article.       In short, a very readable and balanced account of the younger Agrippina.  Mr. Barrett takes the time to present a full picture of Agrippina, her family and her role in Roman history.  In particular, I found the description of Nero's youth and path to becoming Claudius' successor as more detailed and of greater use than Miriam Griffin's book about Nero.  The bibliography is among the more useful I have encountered. Readers will find Mr. Barrett's account of the early empire to be stimulating.	2002-05-24
US	52790591	R25R00FTKA9JYM	0375754741	368327816	The Last Place on Earth: Scott and Amundsen's Race to the South Pole, Revised and Updated (Modern Library Exploration)	Books	5	5	9	N	N	A Groundbreaking Book	\\"The Last Place On Earth\\" is a book that I read some time ago, and is a volume I would not willing part with.  Roland Huntford brilliantly relates the history of Antarctic exploration through the telling of the lives of Robert Falcon Scott and Roald Amundsen.  The book is well written; the kind you are unwilling to put down.  For me, he treats his subjects objectively.  There are some reviewers who believe him biased against Scott but it is well to remember that Mr. Huntford was granted access to Scott's journal by his son so he was able to read the unvarnished truth about the British expedition, which until then was seen as a glorious failure.  The book was a revelation to many people who had considered Scott a hero (I recall the comments of a surprised Alistair Cooke) because much of his rougher spots were glossed over.  It is the contrast between the British and Norwegian expeditions that brings home the points of leadership and makes this book groundbreaking in upsetting notions of glory.<br />I recommend this book for its information about the exploration of the Arctic and Antarctic and the story of the rivalry to be the first to the South Pole.	2002-04-11
US	52790591	R2C63Q07M0EK87	0679751521	523621984	Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil: A Savannah Story	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Mysterious Place	I read \\"Midnight\\" in preparation for a visit that I will make to Savannah: I do not think the city will disappoint. What comes to mind when reading this book is that truth is stranger than fiction. The residents of Savannah are a novelist's dream. Indeed, as John Berendt points out the isolation that Savannah has cloaked itself in has proved fertile ground for nurturing eccentricities. Tourists coming to Savannah see the beauty of the city and are told only what their guides want to reveal, without guessing what lies behind the faade of fountain decorated squares. It is like a Garden of Eden that the residents jealously guard and keep to themselves.<br />Mr. Berendt is an excellent writer with a gift of narrative: he does not waste words. His word portraits of the citizens of Savannah are brilliant. I think it is wrong to describe this as a travel book (although it did have the effect of bringing people to Savannah in droves), but I must confess there are places described in this book that I am interested in seeing. Neither do I think of this as a crime story, although Jim Williams takes center stage. Perhaps \\"Midnight\\" is best described as a memoir of a place and time with all the excitement one could desire from an urban adventure.<br />As far as comparing the book to the film made in 1999, they are two different and not similar forms of expression. Suffice it to say that the details in the book differ with the movie, but it was surprising that so much of the book was translated to the screen, along with dialogue taken directly from the text.<br />In short, an interesting and unforgettable journey that just might convince you to travel south.	2002-03-19
US	52790591	R3S3BOL8X6WUH2	014200068X	713608567	Cannery Row: (Centennial Edition)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Look Back in Time	I am surprised that some reviewers think Cannery Row is lightweight Steinbeck.  Nothing could be further from the truth.  Steinbeck opened this novel with some of his best writing in describing the mood and the place that was Monterey and Cannery Row.  He tells us up front, in marvelous prose, what this book is about and captures the mood of a place that today is nothing more than restaurants and souvenir shops.<br />Cannery Row is people with individuals that Steinbeck knew, most important being Doc, based on the marine biologist Ed Ricketts.  Critics have complained that the book has many sentimental characters, such as Frankie who is hopelessly devoted to Doc.  However, it can be argued that Frankie is a well-worked out portrait and adds to the overall portrait of Cannery Row.  As in life, there are equally somber and happy episodes in this book.   <br />It should be remembered that Cannery Row was written just after World War II when Steinbeck received requests to write something to make people forget about the war.  What he came up with was something personal and nostalgic.  It is well to recall that Edmund Wilson thought Cannery Row was Steinbeck's \\"most satisfying book because it attempts to objectify and exploit the author's own relation to his characters.\\"  The novel flows from chapter to chapter with sprightly language and carries its readers along for the ride.  It is one of those books that you wish would never end.  <br />The Grapes of Wrath may be a monument of a book to Steinbeck's working man but Cannery Row is one written for himself.	2002-03-06
US	52790591	R8KV8GW2MI1AP	0531098230	516181475	The Caesars	Books	5	7	7	N	N	AnInteresting Take on Suetonius	This book is a collection of short biographies along the lines of Suetonius' The 12 Caesars. Allan Massie is better known for his historical fiction but here he puts his research into Roman history in a serious context, and discusses the lives of the first emperors with a purpose to get closer to the truth. <br />He presents the facts and reaches a logical point-of-view. The book is well-written and the information is pragmatic and often conveyed with a dose of humor. Of great importance is that fact that this is not intended to be a retelling of the scandelous lives of the Roman emperors. One may not always agree with Mr. Massie's conclusions but he makes his case. He does not cite any of the ancient histories in his biographies. There is an index but no bibliography.	2002-02-15
US	52790591	RXDZXKCU0CKI9	0786707593	97041690	A Scandalous History of the Roman Emperors	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Lacking in Substance and Biographies	As witty as \\"A Scandalous History of the Roman Emperors\\" may be, Anthony Blond's apology (that there is nothing original in this book) makes one thing clear: it is a rehash of Suetonius.  In fact, only the first 6 Caesars, Julius through Nero, are presented, so Mr. Blond falls rather short of his goal to write about all the emperors let alone the \\"Twelve Caesars.\\"  What follows are some chapters on social history concerning what Rome looked like, Roman food, sexual practices etc.  This is the most interesting part of the book but has little connection to the biographies Mr. Blond has not included.  <br />Unlike Alan Massie's \\"The Caesars,\\" this book offers no insight into the lives that it recounts.  This may be an amusing book but when one delves deeper into the lives of emperors such as Tiberius, Gaius Caligula, Claudius an understanding of how much untruth and exaggeration there is in ancient history become clear.  The approach that needs to be adopted when considering the accuracy of Tacitus, Suetoinius etc. is fairly complex.  Questions need to be brought to bear: what is the bias of the author? What is the archaeological evidence? Is the point of view of the author supported by another ancient historian? How do accounts differ?<br />I think this book will appeal to someone who is not interested in studying Roman in detail and wants to complement viewing of the BBC television series \\"I,Claudius.\\"  Indeed, if the movie Gladiator sparks interest in ancient Roman, I hope Mr. Blond's book is a stepping stone toward books that approach the subject of the Roman emperors with a more serious attitude.	2002-02-04
US	52790591	R3D0KSDB1IEYPK	0300032854	324318937	Nero: The End of a Dynasty	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A Top Biography	A biography of a Roman emperor should concentrate on the life being observed but must also convey the events that occurred in the empire.  Otherwise, the biography will be incomplete.  However, the author runs the risk of writing a history without providing insight into the biographical subject.  Miriam Griffin understands this and although she writes at length on the history of the principate she does not bury her immediate subject.  Nero's life emerges from the sources that have come down to us (mainly by Tacitus, Suetonius, Seneca and Dio).  As far as the book evoking a flesh and blood Nero, Ms. Griffin refrains from speculation and does not add her opinion although she seems to want to.  Perhaps this will not be to the liking of some readers, and I think the lack of information invites intelligent theorizing about what Nero was really like. <br />This is an excellent study of Nero and has become the standard study to many.  There are excellent appendices on historical sources and Nero's coinage.  I agree that the book is a thoroughly researched and well-written but it could use some updating.  I found it a little odd that Ms. Griffin brings the story of Nero's life to an end and then has chapters dealing with events in the empire, such as the Jewish revolt and Nero's tour of Greece.  I think it would have been better to avoid this division.  I was interested in some more detail about the Jewish revolt.  Ms. Griffin also contrasts Nero with Caligula and Domitian, I think incorrectly.  The issue of Caligula declaring himself a god is raised in contract with Nero (who did not).  However, I think it is clear now that Caligula only authorized the worship of his numen.  In a similar vein, Ms. Griffin recalls that Juvenal called Domitian a bald headed Nero, and relates how both killed off their relatives.  This is a rather superficial comparison.  Nero appears to have launched a campaign to eliminate all possible rivals and, while it is true that Domitian had his cousins executed, several years separated these actions and were the result of a conspiracy and treasonable activity.  <br />In short, this is an admirable book that adds to our perspective on Nero and I highly recommend it.	2002-01-29
US	52790591	R1JEHOEYWHXSAK	0811213129	830023794	Patriotism	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Among the Greatest Stories	To recall Madama Butterfly's comment on life: If one cannot live with honor, one can die honorably.  This would be something with which the lieutenant and his wife, depicted in this story, would certainly agree.  The reviewers who have commented here are caught up in the gore and blood of this story.  Mishima indeed took care to precisely delineate of the act of disembowelment but the gore in this story is more clinically described than done for gratuitous results.<br />What is at the center of this story is being true to one's beliefs.  Toward the end of his life Mishima was outspoken about the traditions of Japan that were rapidly disappearing, among them being allegiance to the Emperor.  The event that the story was based upon was a rebellion by a group of junior officers in the Japanese army.  They felt that the power and position of the emperor was being infringed upon and proceeded to kill some members of the government who they felt were leaning too much to the West (apologizing to family members).  In other words, the soldiers reacted to a threat to traditional Japanese values.  The soldiers who participated in the rebellion did not count upon Hirohito feeling otherwise, for he did not support their actions. <br />The lieutenant is left alone after his comrades participated in the rebellion while he was on leave.  He keep faith with them in his act of seppuku, hence the fact that the majority of the story is actually concerned with the act itself.  We may wonder why the lieutenant feels he must go through with his act, particularly since the rebellion was a dismal failure.  The answer, I think, is honor.<br />The theme of this story, of keeping faith to traditional values, is echoed in Runaway Horses and, of course, in Mishima's own life - the unity of pen and action.   Ironically, the story became the subject of a film where Mishima played the lieutenant.<br />If we can put aside our fear of blood, the language Mishima employs is astonishingly beautiful andconcise.   There are few stories that can match the impact conveyed by the words of Patriotism.  The only one that I find similarly affecting is Jack London's The Red One.  This is a work that is experienced and felt as few works of fiction can even hope to approach.	2002-01-17
US	52790591	R1SOTNK0EY258I	0415129311	117205167	Nero (Lancaster Pamphlets in Ancient History)	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	An Excellent Introduction	This pamphlet provides a good introduction to the emperor Nero and the history of his reign. In less than 100 pages a good foundation for understanding the chief events of Nero's reign.  We also gain some insights into his personality but this book is written as a history, not a biography.  Hence the concentration is more focused on where Nero fits into the Julio-Claudian dynasty.  So while not dealing with Nero in detail this slender volume admirably fills the role of primer to a fascinating period and a guide to further reading.	2001-12-28
US	52790591	RFCSLZ5S411OA	0679642374	960304868	The Selected Poetry of Edna St. Vincent Millay (Modern Library)	Books	4	26	28	N	Y	A Good Introduction	This book is a good introduction to the poetry of Edna St. Vincent Millay presenting many of her most memorable poems.  It is not a comprehensive presentation of her writing (for example, some of her more erotic poems are not present) but it is not meant to be. The introduction is good and provides the highlights of her life and career.  I would like to have had a chronology of her life and a list of her complete works in this book.  Overall, this volume satisfied my curiosity but I would want a good biography to accompany this book in order to know more about St. Vincent Millay.<br />I must also comment on the book itself.  My copy has many pages that were cut at an angle with the result that when they were bound the text becomes the margin!  The end papers were also effected so the design is set on a slight angle, the edge of which comes close to being cut off.  It was unsettling for me to find this book in this condition.  I did not return it because I did not care to go to the expense (considering the price of the book) of packaging the book to send back.	2001-12-26
US	52790591	R2SRS4WA6B8NCV	0684872811	859633611	Silent Night: The Story of the World War I Christmas Truce	Books	4	14	17	N	N	A Fascinating Event Amid War	This is an overlooked subject from the First World War and it is good that Stanley Weintraub has written about the Christmas truce.  Overall, I found the book to be very readable.  Mr. Weintraub writes well but I found that I was distracted by the introduction of stories, plays and television programs that deal with the truce.  I think that these points of view could have been gathered in a chapter by themselves and contrasted with the real event.  <br />We are given the insights of the men on both sides and many are spoken of in several chapters. I found myself wanting more  background on some of these men. Where did they come from? What did they do before the war? What became of them?  Sometimes my questions were answered but infrequently. Also, I would have liked a bit more of an introduction to the events preceding the truce.  <br />Mr. Weintraub concludes with a chapter called \\"What If...\\" .  Every historian enjoys considering what may have happened if events had gone differently.  Mr. Weintraub indulges himself perhaps excessively in this chapter to give us a much different 20th Century if the truce had become an event that led to the end of fighting.  It seems that the end of the First World War at Christmas 1914 would have removed evil in place of good, but I am bot sure.  I would have appreciated a more detailed picture of the subsequent Christmas' and how the soldiers felt about a renewal of the truce.  <br />I first learned of the Christmas truce of 1914 in a television program where a letter written by one of the British officers was read describing the truce and the feelings this soldier had about the cessation of fighting.  I think this book would have been better if there was more focus on individual soldiers ala Cornelius Ryan so we could follow the events of the truce a bit more consistently.  This said, I still would recommend this book to anyone who finds the paradox of war and brotherhood an interesting subject.	2001-12-11
US	52790591	R2KGQC1TJKIXP4	0517545160	590619192	101 Uses for a Dead Cat	Books	1	10	63	N	N	Not Very Funny	My wife bought this book thinking that it would be funny: we were both disappointed. The cartoons in this book have little thought and seem sensless in their aim.  Not having any prejudice against dogs or cats, this book comes off as sick rather than funny. Perhaps this is Mr. Bond's answer to 101 Reasons Why Cats Are Better Than Men.  <br />This may be a great book for people who are prejudiced against cats but for people who find cats interesting and lovable animals, go somewhere else.	2001-12-06
US	52790591	R2Q5Q3756CLZXC	0595089372	506928953	Domitia and Domitian	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A Fabulous Historical Novel	I affirm the praise of the reviews written before mine.  David Corson knows the period and the people about whom he is writing.  Having written articles about this imperial couple it is refreshing to encounter an author writing on this period who does his research.  The characters of this book are well drawn and are presented to us in a place and time that is a real environment.   Each chapter is broken into short episodes as long as two pages.  The story advances from what is happening in Domitian's world to the world of Domitia.  As the book progresses, the reader finds events reflected from the perspectives of Domitian and Domitia.  We know so little about Domitia that it is gratifying to find her life (albeit fiction) filled out so she becomes a real person.  <br />In short, this book will be a revelation for anyone interested in Roman history.  It is well written and a joy to read.	2001-11-05
US	52790591	R2XK609DZJF0W2	0060195525	12702269	Nude Body Nude	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Beauty To The Beholder	This large format book is filled with images that are erotic, funny, abstract and even thought provoking.  Having read the negative reviews, I think that the reviewrs had misplaced expectations, but beauty is in the eye of the beholder and opinions will differ.  <br />Nude Body Nude is a book that plays with the human form in many creative ways.  To tackle such a project must be daunting; it must be challenging to give the human form a creative approach that is fresh.  Many of the photographer's efforts appealed to me more than others.  But, for me, this book succeeded far more than it failed. <br />Take a look at the example included with this listing and see for yourself.	2001-10-29
US	52790591	R2WKXAI49QXU4	0425176649	425762792	Into the Mummy's Tomb	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Fascinating Anthology	This volume is one of those rare anthologies that collects different genres of literature together dealing with the subject of mummies and ancient curses. We have horror (Lovecraft), detective stories (Christie and Peters), travel literture (Twain), history (Williams) and archaeology (Carter and Weigall). Many other contribution make this an interesting book.     Also included are abridged versions of Kipling's \\"Dead Kings\\", Rice's \\"Ramses the Damned\\" and Stoker's \\"Jewel of the Seven Stars.\\" \\"Jewel of the Seven Stars\\" certainly deserves to be read in its entirety, so I hope readers unfamiliar with that novel pick it up.    I particularly enjoyed the contribution of Arthur Weigall. Aside from being present at some of the most important finds made in Egypt, he was a wonderful writer. His descriptions of experiences he had with curses and mummies were a highlight of this book. I have been seeking out his other books on Egypt and ancient history. All in all, this is a volume of discovery of our fascination with mummies.	2001-10-24
US	52790591	R3Q8XGPH2S2N70	0415166187	246208658	Vespasian (Roman Imperial Biographies)	Books	3	34	35	N	N	History Not A Biography	This book is better termed a history of the Flavians rather than a biography of Vespasian.  Despite a glowing review (in the Bryn Mawr Classical Review), I have reservations about the achievement of Barbara Levick in writing this book.  <br />I was looking forward \\"Vespasian\\" since, until now, there has been no biography in English about this emperor.  Aside from a history of his reign, I was hoping this new book would provide some insight into Vespasian's personality and his relations with Titus and Domitian.  To an extent, Professor Levick fulfilled this expectation but not on the level I was hoping.  For example, I was interested in a broader assessment of the fortunes of the Flavians, particularly their rise under Caligula and Claudius and Vespasian's fall from grace.  I would have liked more about Titus' education with Britannicus and his presumed presence at the poisoning of Claudius' son.  I think the latter instance is pure Flavian propaganda.  <br />The Judean War is related as a recitation of the facts with little elaboration.  We do not get a full picture of Titus's role in the war.  He was an inexperienced commander and showed this in more than a few mistakes he made.  If Vespasian allowed him the glory of capturing Jerusalem he made sure that his son has a seasoned professional to advise him: Tiberius Julius Alexander.  Titus' pivotal role was in handling the delicate negotiations between the parties involved in the Flavian rebellion met with scant attention.  Without his traveling from person to person, Vespasian's rebellion would never have happened.   The role Queen Berenice in these negotiations is not brought up.  Since her brother, Agrippa II, was in Rome until after the Flavian rebellion began, and she was romantically involved with Titus it would have been interesting to have more insight into her role.<br />A discussion about Nerva from Professor Levick is sorely wanting.  He is briefly mentioned, which I think is odd for such a pivotal Flaviansupporter.  I would like to know her ideas about his mysterious contribution to the Flavian cause that earned him an ordinary consulship with Vespasian, the only consulship he did not share with Titus. <br />The best parts of the book for me were the last two chapters (Vespasian and His Sons and Conclusion) where Professor Levick brilliantly sums up the Flavians and their impact on history.   However, Vespasian does not emerge from this book as a flesh-and-blood personality.  Some of the chapters, particularly Restoration of the Roman World, which deals with events in every part of the empire, would have benefited by adding headings in the text.  This would provide easy access to the information.  I was perturbed over Professor Levick's shorthand in referring to ancient sources.  The Annals of Tacitus, for example, are abbreviated TA and the notes are crowded.  The source is not immediately identifiable and I wish more intuitive abbreviations were used.  <br />I cannot agree with other reviewers that Professor Levick selects \\"boring\\" emperors.  Tiberius and Claudius were anything but boring, and their reigns were pivotal in the history of the principate.  I think that there is room for another biography of Vespasian, written in the form of a true life of the subject, and including chapters dealing with the state of the empire, army, art and literature.  Ms. Levick's book is not the last word on her subject.	2001-10-18
US	52790591	R35AC07NJJDAL4	1856978842	284132932	Ghost Stories (Story Library)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Gently Spooky Stroies For Halloween	The stories in this collection tend not to be overly frightening, which makes them ideal for children but adults can find them equally enjoyable.  There are stories by Dickens, Saki, Kafka, Maupassant and Ray Bradbury along with some by relatively unknown authors.  The &quot;Monkey's Paw&quot; is collected along with an unfamiliar M. R. James &quot;Lost Hearts.&quot;  <br />The stories range from the sad and poignant&quot;The Little Yellow Dog&quot; about the ghost of a dog to the spooky &quot;A Legion Marching By&quot; about a ghostly Roman legion in Britain.  The illustrations add a lot to the presentation.	2001-10-16
US	52790591	R7HYA3KLASOON	0140442960	769965012	Wang Wei - Poems (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Poems from a Master	Of the Chinese poets, Wang Wei has a special quality of painting with words.  This collection is representative of his writing and will delight those who have read Wang Wei's poems and will provide a good introduction to those searching for a remarkable poet.	2001-05-24
US	52790591	R3U08RZ01M9B4K	0385479689	185160275	Dead Men Do Tell Tales: The Strange and Fascinating Cases of a Forensic Anthropologist	Books	5	44	46	N	N	An Outstanding Book	I bought a copy of this book when it first came out and it remains one of my favorites.  Dr. Maples presents the story of his life in this book: how he became a forensic anthropologist, clues on how people are identified and his most famous cases.  The cases that come to mind are his identification of the Tsar's family, his investigation into the death of President Zachary Taylor and his thoughts on the Elephant Man.  His dedication to solving impossible problems makes fascinating reading.  Along with the riveting detective story quality of the book, you come to know Dr. Maples, and an interesting man he was.  I count my interest in forensic science from the day I read this book; it is the kind of book that you stay up to 3 in the morning to finish.	2001-03-20
US	52790591	RG9O29XTH47ZJ	0393047342	80979257	Too Good to Be True: The Colossal Book of Urban Legends	Books	3	0	5	N	N	Too Weird to be True	Many of the stories in this book are amusing, some unbelievable and many are plain gross. For the most part, they are unverified stories of the sort someone would whisper in your ear, \\"Did you hear the one about...\\" One story that I thought would be in the book, but was not, was the roach-in-the taco that was reported by the New York Times a couple of years ago. Despite that, there were nasty enough stories about fast food. <br />Thyis is a a collection of sometimes dubious stories that entertain to a degree but I think there are other books that I would prefrer to read.most of the reviewers here are teenagers, who are probably the group this book was written for.	2001-03-15
US	52790591	R1UMVWQT68GXN9	0140013997	888618380	My Family and Other Animals (Penguin Essentials)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A Magical Book	My only regret is that I did not read this book years ago, when Gerald Durrell was living, so I could tell the author how much I love his book.   The praises of  \\"My Family and Other Animals\\" has been sung by many readers.  What I would like to add is that Mr. Durrell has a wonderful gift for writing and observation.  His book takes us on a journey to the sun-drenched  island of Corfu, that for Mr. Durrell is a place near to paradise.  The natural world he is surrounded by fascinates him, and the reader, as we are introduced to the varieties of creatures that inhabit the island.  We come to appreciate the life that can be found in a ditch filled with water.  Then, there are the animals Mr. Durrell collected as pets: Quasimodo the pigeon, Ulysses the owl and the Magenpies.   This is to say nothing of his dogs: Roger, Widdle and Puke.  I only wish there could have been photographs in this edition.<br />Coupled with this are wonderful portraits of his mother, two brothers and sister and their sometimes eccentric guests, along with the people of Corfu they meet.  From the moment the Durrells arrive on Corfu, followed by a pack of dogs, their adventures are non-stop.  One wishes for the chance to have been on Corfu and be able to pay a visit to whatever villa they happened to be living in.    \\"My Family and Other Animals\\" is a book that you will not want to end.	2001-03-07
US	52790591	R34DIHEJ7XKFPM	0670894435	161317772	Virginia Woolf (Penguin Lives)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Outstanding Life of Virginia Woolf	I would call this a portrait and not a biography.  This is not meant to denigrate a wonderful book but differentiate it from full-blown biographies that extend to volumes.  Rather, this is an intimate portrait by someone who knew Virginia Wolf, has read her books and edited her letters for publication.  <br />Nigel Nicolson gives us an intimate portrait of Virginia Woolf in a highly readable book of 191 pages.  Because of his mother Vita Sackville-West's close relationship with Virginia we gain a perspective that a biographer who takes his subject as an assignment cannot always supply.  However, Mr. Nicolson maintains his objectivity giving us a Virginia Woolf with all her complexity and contradictions.   We are treated to frequent quotes from her diaries and letters that bring her all the closer.  I enjoyed the personal touch offered by Mr. Nicolson; he is not intrusive and when he speaks from his personal knowledge of his subjects he adds a dimension of intimacy.  You come away with a feeling that you know something of Virginia Woolf rather than facts about her.<br />There are several photographs illustrating the book.  If you want to know about Virginia Woolf, or want to become reacquainted with her life and books, this is a book to read.	2001-01-05
US	52790591	RJFE6VFAMWU3L	0806507047	581819329	The Dracula Book of Great Vampire Stories	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A GREAT COLLECTION	This collection of vampire stories brings together 13 stories that were published in the 19th and early 20th centuries. Lesser known but by no means inferior authors join familiar authors like Bram Stoker and Sheridan Le Fanu. The stories begin with an imaginatively illustrated first letter. For example, Carmilla has a Gothic letter &quot;C&quot; that towers above the print and is decorated with flows and small figures thus setting the tone for the story.  It is interesting the &quot;the Horla&quot; by Maupassant was included here.  It is usually considered more of a ghost story.  The remaining works are atmospheric and creepy.<br />In short, a well-considered selection of stories that will please vampire lovers everywhere.	2000-10-31
US	52790591	R3H0AJYT7ZF3IH	090787116X	541193196	A Cure for Serpents (Elond Classics)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	An Outstanding Book	&quot;A Cure For Serpents&quot; was written by an Italian doctor who spent the better part of the 1920s, 1930s and 1940s in North Africa.  He writes of his experiences in Libya, Ethiopia, Somaliland and Eritrea, and provides a glimpse into a part of the world and a way of life that seem as ancient as the earth.<br />The author, Alberto Denti, the Duke of Pirajno, was a keen observer and a gifted writer.  His experiences are memorable and exciting; we are given a rare opportunity to see a part of the world both exotic, filled with ignorance and nobility.  It is an adventure we would all like to have lived but find it far safer to read about.  Perhaps the most memorable part of the book is   Neghesti, the lioness who feel in love with the author.<br />This is a book that will occupy your shelves forever, and one you will recommend to others.	2000-09-22
US	52790591	R2JU8L6R7HKU08	0140258205	937614457	Nefertiti: Egypt's Sun Queen	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Great Biography of Nefertiti	Nefertiti: Egypt's Sun Queen is a well-written book about a mysterious  time.  Joyce Tyldesley sets the stage with an excellent discussion of  Amenhotep III and the times prior to the advent of Akhenaten.  There is a  wealth of information. <br />Of particular interest to me was the tracing of  the god Aten and that Amenhotep had awakened interest in this god.  If one  is to write a life of Nefertiti it has to be undertaken to provide all the  various ideas that have sprung up about her.  Ms. Tyldesley prepares us for  this path, one she is forced into because of the lack of information about  Nefertiti and the Amarna period in general.  She shifts through all of this  material admirably and points out the more probable scenarios.  <br />If one  is disappointed because this is not a traditional biography it is because  of our lack of information.  Once could probably fit what we \\"know\\" about  Nefertiti on a few pages.  What possibly happened takes more.  If one is  interested in Egypt and the Amarna period in particular, this is a valuable  book.	2000-08-30
US	52790591	R3R27VJ09WGEUZ	0500251126	951794711	Caligula: Emperor of Rome	Books	2	2	4	N	N	A Disappointing Caligula	This book should have been much better.  Mr. Ferrill does not follow his own advice to treat ancient historians with caution.  He believes every word and is highly critical of scholars who have rationalized the life of  Caligula to what has been written about him.  There is no doubt that  Caligula's reputation has suffered from hostile writers and Mr. Ferrill  cannot be objective enough to see beyond the smokescreen.  He tries to  provide evidence that Caligula was crazy before his illness and comes up  with his spending large amounts of the money Tiberius left.  This is a  dubious argument and only proves that Caligula had no idea of the value of  money. <br />Rather than discuss the evidence pro and con on the many points  Ferrill resorts to the device that Caligula was crazy so we cannot expect  an irrational person to be reasonable.  This is simply a cop-out. The  madness of Caligula is one of a gradual disintegration of the emperor's  mind but Ferrill does not give any idea why this is true or what illness is  at work.  In the brief discussion of Caligula declaring himself a god,  there is no discussion of the concept of the emperor's numen.    <br />   Having read a great deal about Caligula I can say that \\"Caligula:Emperor of  Rome\\" expresses a minority opinion.  Mr. Ferrill does not to mention  obvious contradictions in Suetonius' life of Caligula that cast him in a  favorable light.  Ferrill even says that even if some stories by ancient  historians are \\"untrue or greatly exaggerated, there can be little doubt  that Caligula was one of the cruelest rules Rome ever had.\\"  What is  certain to me is that Mr. Ferrill cannot persuade us by logic so he must  resort to stepping around the difficult question of who Caligula was and  what he did.  <br />One cannot contradict the fact that Caligula was a  ruthless autocrat who was provocative in what he said and did.  Without a  doubt, the turbulent childhood he experienced left a mark on his character.   However, Caligula is more complex that the stereotypical mad monarch  presented in this book.  Mr. Ferrill is correct in suggesting that it is  possible for someone who is mad to become an emperor but it is also true  that one does not have to be insane to be cruel.	2000-07-28
US	52790591	R1QNJDY77K5NUW	0415228123	458844137	Hadrian: The Restless Emperor (Roman Imperial Biographies)	Books	5	27	28	N	N	AN OUTSTANDING BOOK	This is the best biography written about Hadrian in English.  Mr. Birley does an excellent job tracing Hadrian as he visited the empire and also provides a fascinating look at the Flavians, the dynasty of Hadrian's  youth.  There is a lot of detail, particularly when Mr. Birely deals with  Hadrian's travels that seems to have provoked comments that his book is  dry.  One can find this daunting, however, such details are necessary to  fully explain what Hadrian was doing, what was happening and with whom he  was interacting.<br />Mr. Birley has stuck to relating Hadrian's life and  does not explore his buildings, the Pantheon, Temple of Venus and Roma and  his Villa at Tibur in any detail.  Such considerations are best left to  other books.  Mr. Birley uses his sources (Historia Augusta etc) very well  and explains their departures and omissions to what we know from  archaeology.  In the end, Hadrian remains an enigmatic personality but we  have a far better understanding of him in his desire to Hellenize the  empire and seeing himself as a second Augustus.  His reign marks a turning  point in the expansionist attitude of the Romans; Hadrian withdrew from the  new province of Arabia (created by Trajan) and sought to fix the boundries  of the empire.  This was a view not shared by his immediate successors but  came to be a necessity as time passed.  Mr. Birley covers these critical  ideas thoroughly and provides insight into a an interesting personality.	2000-07-25
US	52790591	R2IHZ2NYOWRKN4	067960328X	901302134	Slightly Out of Focus (Modern Library)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Classic Story	This is a remarkable book by a great photographer.  Robert Capa, as has been said, invented himself.  This is evident in this book: as a Hungarian living the the United States during war time (technically an enemy alien)  and broke, he managed to effortlessly have a job offered to him, get a  passport (as if by magic) and become an American war photographer.   <br />Mr.  Capa wrote well for someone who learned English but his marvelous  photographs included in this book say much more than the words on the  printed page.  Some of the photographs were familiar and others were new  for me.  They are touched with compassion and so involved with the scene as  if the camera eye were able to explore the world invisible. <br />In sum, a  wonderful book to read and treasure for Capa's outlook on life, his  experiences and his unique photographs.	2000-06-05
US	52790591	R2U1G2J0IQOKTI	0300074298	926509247	Caligula: The Corruption of Power	Books	5	22	25	N	N	A Rational Biography of Caligula	Taking a pragmatic look at infamous Roman emperors like Caligula and Nero may not be a popular thing to do (after all, it is more fun to think of them simply as crazy with no redeeming characteristics) but Anthony Barrett  succeeds remarkably with this well-written book.  <br />Caligula has been  portrayed as a megalomaniac in films like The Robe and as seriously  disturbed in \\"I, Claudius\\" and is the view people generally accept.    Ancient historians were not like their modern counterparts who seek to  reveal the truth behind people and events, and are not in agreement among  themselves.  Rather, their concern was to relate the truth as they saw it,  and a bad emperor had to be bad man.      <br />Mr. Barrett writes well and  gives us a biography that can appeal to the historian and general reader.   He examines the sources and archaeological evidence to provide a  well-ground appraisal of Caligula's personality.  The discussion is well  reasoned and Mr. Barrett presents a good deal of material to support his  conclusions.  There is an excellent selection on the coins, inscriptions  and portraits of Caligula, and a list of his victims with source citations.   The personality that emerges may not be the one who slept with his sisters  and thought he was Jove but a ruthless tyrant remains.	2000-06-01
US	52790591	R13BI460O4UNUU	0679441247	539544634	Encore Provence	Books	3	2	2	N	N	More Provence But Nothing New	It is inevitable that Peter Mayle's new book Encore Provence will be compared to the first book in the series, A Year In Provence, as the better book.  This expresses my feeling.  Mr. Mayle is a good writer but he covers  subject that were done in earlier books, namely truffles and olive oil.   There are character portraits like Marius but not much that I can say held  my interest.<br />The chapter dealing with foie gras as a component of French  longevity I found trite.  I cannot think of foie gras without the inhumane  methods that produce it.  I was wondering how Mr. Mayle could eat it  without thinking of geese having a rod rammed down their throats, sometimes  causing damage to their neck and leading to infections.<br />In short, a mixed  bag of some of the old humor but also a book that had few new observations.	2000-05-07
US	52790591	RGXJKTYK341O4	0674990145	100549923	Julian, Volume I. Orations 1-5 (Loeb Classical Library No. 13)	Books	5	23	24	N	N	The Best and Most Complete Edition of Julian	The three volumes of Julian's extant writings in the Loeb series are must have books for anyone interested in the politics and religion of the Fourth Century.  Volume One contains his Panagyricus to Constantius, the Heroic  Deeds of Constantius and a Panygyricus to the empress Eusebia. These are  interesting political documents that give us the 'official' version of  events during the reign of Constantius, Julian's cousin.  Eusebia was  responsible for preserving Julian's life when he was imprisoned on trumped  up charges of treason. The other volumes give us Julian's religious and  philosophical writings along with letters and his satire &quot;The  Caesars&quot; and the remarkable &quot;Bear-Hater&quot;.<br />Sometimes Julian  is long-winded in what he is talking about and not everything will  necessarily appeal to the casual reader, but these writings remain highly  important.	2000-05-04
US	52790591	RA9I27BT9O3FR	155970490X	210274249	Jacqueline Du Pre: Her Life, Her Music, Her Legend	Books	5	35	43	N	N	The Biography Jacueline du Pre Deserves	Elizabeth Wilson knew Jacueline du Pre and while such a relationship may not produce a good biography, this is an excellent one.  This book is much needed, particularly following the film &quot;Hilary and Jackie.&quot;   This book answers all the questions about Ms. du Pre and gives us clear  insight into who she was and how she came to be the woman who was  unquestionably one of the great instrumentalists of the 20th century.  I  found myself reading this book and listening to recordings of Ms. du Pre  play; an unbeatable combination.	2000-01-15
US	52790591	R18M2B0B7FXVHQ	0898866995	94945383	Ghosts of Everest: The Search for Mallory & Irvine	Books	5	5	5	N	N	History and Adventure on Mount Everest	This is a wonderful book that combines the history of the early British attempts in 1922 and 1924 to summit Mount Everest and the business and adventure of undertaking an expedition today.  Interesting reading that  reawakened the interest I had when the National Geographic mounted the  first successful American expedition. In short, a book that will have me  reading more about Everest and the remarkable George Mallory. <br />I await  the next phase of the expedition: the search for Irvine.	1999-12-17
US	52790591	R2O4WKG3ZUSI09	0140187413	690446916	Travels with Charley in Search of America (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Steinbeck's Bittersweet Journey	I began John Steinbeck's \\"Travels With Charley\\" with great interest and expectation. It struck me as interesting that the author made this journey, at least partly, over concern that he had written himself out.  Indeed, he compares his journey to Don Quiote tilting at windmills. If anything, this book proves that idea wrong. However, this is a bittersweet journey for Mr. Steinbeck, perhaps epitomized by \\"You can't go home again.\\" <br />He seems to be a little disconcerted from the start. He had traveled a great deal in Europe and now found how much American had changed; Steinbeck found himself ill at ease with what he found, as we all would when change erases what we grew up with.<br />This book gives us a close one-on-one relationship with the author in this book, since he is directly addressing the reader with his thoughts. I must confess at being a little at odds with some of his atitudes. This came most strongly with his encounter with two coyotes. He wants to shoot them both, but stops himself and lets them go. To him they are varmints, something to be exterminated, and this knee-jerk reaction is reactionary rather than a more thoughtful encounter with two fellow creatures that inhabit this earth. Over the years, coyotes have been, and still are, mercilessly hunted. I disagree with Steinbeck in that coyotes have the same right to exist as we do, and humans are, in truth, more trouble than we are worth. <br />The bittersweet quality is most apparent when Mr. Steinbeck returns to Monterey, the setting of so many of his books, and when meeting his friends he finds things have changed too much.  Charley, also, gives him reason to worry with urinary problems that eventually do get cured. The book is most interesting when Mr. Steinbeck is among people he does not know and asks them questions about themselves and their lives. <br />So, I find this an interesting book that raises many issues about what America was and is today, and is important to understanding John Steinbeck as he grew old. I was never so thrilled when I saw Rocinante, the truck he drove on this journey, at the National Steinbeck Center.  One almost expected to see the author seated in the cabin slotted in the bed of the truck. This is a journey I highly recommend.	1999-10-11
US	52790591	R2WDU2ADUL15IL	0826319688	17509758	Bone Voyage: A Journey in Forensic Anthropology	Books	3	12	17	N	N	An Uneven Account of Forensic Anthropology	Books on forensic anthropology are favorite reading of mine, so I was looking forward to reading this book by Stanley Rhine.  I was somewhat disappointed by the book and found it a cross between a telling of Mr.  Rhine's experiences as a forensic anthropologist and a textbook.  The  chapters are put together in a sequence that I would have changed.  For example, a  chapter on the history of forensic anthropology occurs in the middle of the  book.  There, also,  is more technical information, such as the names of the all the  bones  of a skeleton.  The case histories tend to blur into  each other and I found some not explained as fully as I would like.  The  kinds interesting cases that Dr. William Maples and Clyde Snow were  involved with are not similarly present in this book. However, Mr. Stine  has some interesting experiences to relate.  What I most remember are the  problems he encountered when the police think they know more than he does.  The book is rather wordy and I thought that a good commercial book editor  needed to put this book in a more interesting form.	1999-07-25
US	52790591	R14LFT4IL0E13	0385486472	772238442	When in Rome: A Journal of Life in Vatican City	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Adventures in the Vatican	This is not meant to be a guide book but the story of the author as he finds out all he can about Vatican City.  Mr. Hutchinson gives us an interesting look behind the scens of the Vatican, places where I never have  been and probably never will be.  <br />I must disagree with him, however,  when he says the Italians are grumpy, sour tempered people who don't like  speaking anything but Italian.  I have found things to the contrary.  In  fact, I wonder how the Romans put up with so many awful tourists and remain  unaffected.  As to the pizza sold by vendors on the streets, I found their  wares to be not too bad, not cardboard anyway.  However, I tend not to be  less fussy about what is on my pizza, and after a big dinner the night  before it was welcome to have something lite and quick.  <br />I am more than  willing to let pass the error about Mary Stuart etc.  How it got by a  reader I don't know.  So, I can give the book high marks because it is  entertaining, informative and written with a sense of humor.	1999-07-10
US	52790591	R2SOAL1P9YGBR7	0253332168	514203349	Trajan: Optimus Princeps	Books	4	20	21	N	N	An Outstanding Biography of Trajan	The achievement of Julian Bennett cannot be overestimated.  His book, the first in English, is the major source for information about Trajan.  The author is long-winded at times and I found his brief examination of the  evolution of the principate unnecessary but, overall, this is a book not to  be missed.  <br />Mr. Bennett's presenation of Domitian was not entirely  convincing for me.  He seems to accept many of the bad stories about the  emperor but also mentions that his reputation was blackened during Trajan's  reign.  However, a good comparison is made between the two emperors in the  final chapter. Trajan was a lot like Domitian in his approach to power.<br />I  would have liked more about Nerva in the book and Trajan's relationship to  his adoptive father. For me, there seems to be some friction between them.   Was there a reason Trajan did not issue commemorative coins for Nerva's  deification?  <br />Mr. Bennett gives an excellent examination of Trajan's  coinage and provides a perspective from an archaelogical point of view.  He  covers every aspect of Trajan's career.  This is not lite reading but, for  the most part, is absorbing and thought-provoking.	1999-06-26
US	52790591	R3IHJ70Y5Z0ERQ	0396072992	957364890	Titus of Rome	Books	2	3	3	N	N	A Fictional Account of Titus	Although I have seen \\"Titus of Rome\\" listed as a biography of Titus it is an historical novel. The author uses dialogue between the characters and invents some improbably scenes: Nero poisons Titus' dog out of spite, Titus meets Saints Peter and Paul in Rome )of course, he's sympathetic) and has a romantic trist with Queen Berenice on Capri, where he has gone for a rest.<br />Domitian is portrayed as a spoiled brat, then a senseless monster. The book has little historical value and is sometimes written like a romance story. Almost all of the information included about the \\"good Titus\\" and \\"bad Domitian\\" was been proven false a long time ago. Titus comes off as a golden boy who is unlucky in love but goes down in history as the best of emperors. This is a book to be read as a sentimental view of history.	1999-03-25
US	52790591	R1L7RV78T7FXKM	0691040974	612106109	Private Lives, Imperial Virtues	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An Excellent Study of Domitian and His Forum	The subject of this book, the remains of the Forum Transitorium, may seem quite dry but the author makes her subject an interesting one.<br />Aside from the review of the architectual remains, Eve D'Ambra includes a lot of  information about Domitian and his view of morality and piety.  One is left  with a greater understanding of the last of the Flavians, his place in the  history of Rome and the message he wished his subject to learn through the  building of his forum.	1999-03-22
US	52790591	R1AVU4PC2CDMMK	0674488822	719453509	Julian the Apostate	Books	5	3	9	N	N	Fabulous Book About Emperor Julian	Bowersock's book is a thoughtful account of the life of Julian II.  It is filled with insight and is very even-handed in presentation.  It is easy to overlook Julian's less desirable characteristics (much like Gore Vidal did,  but that was fiction) and turn him into a tragic hero.  There is not a  wasted sentence in this book, and it is very readable.  In short: an  excellent portrait. I wish that Mr. Bowerstock had added a chapter  describing the background of the 4th century but this is a minor objection.	1999-03-17
US	52790591	R17XK7OTX9UV6E	0399514759	602362808	The Cat Empire	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Cat Book That is a MUST for Cat Lovers	This book is a one-of-a-kind; the subtitle is: The Secret Life of Merlin, a cat adopted by the author and who is the model for all of the pictures.  The book is a history of cats told in short essays and covering a period from prehistoric times to the present day.  Merlin is a very patient cat and was posed and photographed by Mr. Weigal wearing a costume that illustrates the aspect of cat history or lore that is the subject of each essay.      The costumes were hand-made for Merlin and many of them are very elaborate.  The book is a good source of information about cats and their place in our shared history.  But what makes this book such a delight are the wonderful pictures of Merlin, who appears to have enjoyed the photography sessions, representing all cats from all periods of time.	1999-02-07
US	52790591	R1098OGSUC709T	0415166314	337010509	Augustus (Roman Imperial Biographies)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	An Excellent New Biography of Augustus	Augustus is a legendary figure in Roman history.  For us, and the later Roman world, he is a mythical figure, an image of himself that Augustus helped to foster.  He is the god-like archetypal father of his country.  In  this new biography, Pat Southern has succeeded (as much as can be done) in  penetrating behind the mask to give us the man behind the legend.<br />Her  opening chapters brilliantly relate the background of Roman history prior  to the career of Octavian.  She does a remarkable job of untangling the  politiacal web of late Republican politics and placing the figures of  Julius Caesar, Pompey, Crassus, Mark Antony and Cleopatra into perspective.   She guides us along the very difficult and tortuous route that brought  Octavian , the non-entity equestrian, to become the adoptive son of Caesar,  the Triumver and finally the beloved ruler of the Roman world.<br />It is easy  to take for granted that Augustus would become the eventual victor in the  power struggle following the assassination of Caesar. It is a period  populated by meny men who had their eyes on becoming the sole ruler of the  Roman empire. Ms. Southern takes us step by step, including the mistakes  made by Octavian.  In this she reveals much about the personalities of the  participants but Roman society.<br />This is a scholarly book.  You will find  Mark Antony referred to by his correct name Marcus Antonius; and Pompey is  Pompeius.  It is a scholarly book that is well written and also even  exciting to read at times.  She knows her material  and has written a  thoughtful biography that is the best portrait of Augustus, the man and  princeps, that we have.	1999-01-16
US	52790591	R3UOTBZAFYL72V	0821224905	971451198	Margaret Bourke-White: Photographer	Books	5	18	19	N	Y	Finally, a book of photographs by Margaret Bourke-White	For several years, I would stop in the photography section of whatever bookstore I was in to see if there were any monographs about Margaret Bourke-White's photography.  Alas, there were none.  Margaret Bourke-White  was a remarkable photo-journalist who has given us many remarkable and  lasting images of industry, war and society.  She joined Life magazine at  its founding and died at the time of the magazine's demise in 1972.   <br />This book provides a comprehensive look at her work decade by decade  with the best of her best work included with an introduction to each  section by Sean Callahan.  The appearance of this book is long overdue.  A  perfect companion to this volume is the biography by Vicki Goldberg.	1998-10-29
