US	52790555	R15XAJOCOHSS8E	0316346624	226933679	The Tipping Point: How Little Things Can Make a Big Difference	Books	4	4	7	N	Y	Tipping Points are Everywhere	Books like this one are useful, even if for no other reason, because they give you simple terminology with which to grasp ideas that are intuitively obvious, but heretofore without any real conceptual framework with which to express them. For example, I'm interested in the stock market and have always been fascinated by the way stocks will tread  water for a long time, then for no apparent reason suddenly double or triple in value, or  drop like a rock. I'm also interested in military history and am intrigued by the way large battles often hang in balance for hours until a few soldiers achieve a breakthrough at one point in the battle line, collapsing it within minutes and triggering a sudden rout of the opposing army. Now I have a convenient word to use when trying to describe these things:  stock market moves and military battles are both determined by \\"tipping points\\". It's a measure of how far reaching this idea is that Mr. Gladwell at no point in his book even mentions the stock market or warfare, or many of the other areas to which his central idea could be applied. He focuses more on what he calls \\"social epidemics\\", like teen-age smoking, and on marketing campaigns. This book is aimed at, probably more than anyone else,  marketing professionals, whose jobs can be defined as the development of programs designed to lead to tipping points for their products. The essential phenomenon Mr. Gladwell is getting at here is the arithmetic of exponential growth as applied to the social transmission of ideas and information. If I tell two people about something, and they each tell two more, who in turn tell two more, and so forth, it doesn't take too long before my little idea has enough critical mass suddenly to hit the front page or, depending on its nature, make me rich. That's the tipping point.  The trick, of course, is boosting the idea with the momentum necessary for it to sustain itself through this transmission process, and it is to this that Mr. Gladwell devotes his attention. He reduces it all to three variables that he calls The Law of the Few, The Stickiness Factor, and the Power of Context. Having laid out these concepts, he then goes on to describe how they work through an array of  \\"tipping point\\" applications. This is all very interesting as far as it goes. The problem with the book is that, unfortunately,  it never really goes much beyond the realm of Pop Sociology, i.e., one compelling idea forced into a slick and ultimately shallow formula. His three rules, which he elevates into repetitive dogma, are real,  but they ultimately fail to explain very much that's not pretty obvious once you've thought about it, and they leave much unexplained. The other problem is  Mr.Gladwell's proclivity for digression. He's a science writer by trade and is in love with the mechanics of scientific research. In developing his \\"stickiness factor\\" idea, for example, he devotes over 30 pages- more than 10% of his entire text - to describing the exhaustive focus-group research employed by the creators of Sesame Street as they sought to sequence material in their show in such a way as to rivet the attention of children. Similarly, in his discussion of smoking, he tells us much more than we need to hear about the biology of nicotine addition, and he tends to run on like this about every topic he introduces. I actually found most of this interesting enough in its own right, but totally off the subject,  and if we reduce The Tipping Point to it's relevant substance, what we would have is nothing much more than a short, provocative essay. Having said all that, I still enjoyed the book and recommend it. Mr. Gladwell is an excellent writer, and the book is lively and easy to get through, digressions and all. It's also been hugely successful, introducing the title phase into contemporary business jargon and illustrating the author's thesis by creating a kind of literary tipping point of its own. However, it would be interesting to see the main ideas stripped of the pop veneer and explored in greater depth at some point in the future.in ideas stripped of the pop veneer and explored in greater depth at some point in the future.	2003-12-07
US	52790555	R1XWWE52FR86Q9	0316346624	226933679	The Tipping Point: How Little Things Can Make a Big Difference	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Tipping Points are Everywhere	Books like this one are useful, even if for no other reason, because they give you simple terminology with which to grasp ideas that are intuitively obvious, but heretofore without any real conceptual framework with which to express them. For example, I'm interested in the stock market and have always been fascinated by the way stocks will tread  water for a long time, then for no apparent reason suddenly double or triple in value, or  drop like a rock. I'm also interested in military history and am intrigued by the way large battles often hang in balance for hours until a few soldiers achieve a breakthrough at one point in the battle line, collapsing it within minutes and triggering a sudden rout of the opposing army. Now I have a convenient word to use when trying to describe these things:  stock market moves and military battles are both determined by \\"tipping points\\". It's a measure of how far reaching this idea is that Mr. Gladwell at no point in his book even mentions the stock market or warfare, or many of the other areas to which his central idea could be applied. He focuses more on what he calls \\"social epidemics\\", like teen-age smoking, and on marketing campaigns. This book is aimed at, probably more than anyone else,  marketing professionals, whose jobs can be defined as the development of programs designed to lead to tipping points for their products. The essential phenomenon Mr. Gladwell is getting at here is the arithmetic of exponential growth as applied to the social transmission of ideas and information. If I tell two people about something, and they each tell two more, who in turn tell two more, and so forth, it doesn't take too long before my little idea has enough critical mass suddenly to hit the front page or, depending on its nature, make me rich. That's the tipping point.  The trick, of course, is boosting the idea with the momentum necessary for it to sustain itself through this transmission process, and it is to this that Mr. Gladwell devotes his attention. He reduces it all to three variables that he calls The Law of the Few, The Stickiness Factor, and the Power of Context. Having laid out these concepts, he then goes on to describe how they work through an array of  \\"tipping point\\" applications. This is all very interesting as far as it goes. The problem with the book is that, unfortunately,  it never really goes much beyond the realm of Pop Sociology, i.e., one compelling idea forced into a slick and ultimately shallow formula. His three rules, which he elevates into repetitive dogma, are real,  but they ultimately fail to explain very much that's not pretty obvious once you've thought about it, and they leave much unexplained. The other problem is  Mr.Gladwell's proclivity for digression. He's a science writer by trade and is in love with the mechanics of scientific research. In developing his \\"stickiness factor\\" idea, for example, he devotes over 30 pages- more than 10% of his entire text - to describing the exhaustive focus-group research employed by the creators of Sesame Street as they sought to sequence material in their show in such a way as to rivet the attention of children. Similarly, in his discussion of smoking, he tells us much more than we need to hear about the biology of nicotine addition, and he tends to run on like this about every topic he introduces. I actually found most of this interesting enough in its own right, but totally off the subject,  and if we reduce The Tipping Point to it's relevant substance, what we would have is nothing much more than a short, provocative essay. Having said all that, I still enjoyed the book and recommend it. Mr. Gladwell is an excellent writer, and his book is lively and easy to get through, digressions and all. It's also been hugely successful, introducing the title phase into contemporary business jargon and illustrating the author's thesis by creating a kind of literary tipping point of its own. However, it would be interesting to see the main ideas stripped of the pop veneer and explored in greater depth at some point in the future.	2003-11-08
US	52790555	RLN6VIXAKR0SZ	0743222857	735708664	Rescuing Patty Hearst: Growing Up Sane in a Decade Gone Mad	Books	3	6	12	N	N	Growing up with Schizophrenic Mother	I picked up this book because of it's title. I remember the Patty Hearst saga very well, and also remember the feel of what the subtitle refers to as \\"a decade gone mad\\".  For people recently graduated from America's colleges, the early 1970's were  unsettling years.  60's idealism had already revealed it's disappointing underside, and the country was full of restless anxiety,  with Vietnam winding towards its grim anti-climax and the Watergate affair generating so much empty passion among our political factions. The Patty Hearst story fascinated us because it seemed to capture the zeitgeist: scary, surrealistic,  pointless - essentially a sad and violent mental health problem glamorized for our entertainment. I bought Ms. Holman's book with the expectation it might somehow reconnect me with these strange times and provide perspective.  Read from this angle, unfortunately, the book is a disappointment, because it's essentially a personal memoir,  with very little thematic content.  This disappointment stemmed from my own misunderstanding of the author's purpose, rather than any flaw in the book itself, since - aside from the title - there's really no pretense here of anything more than a personal memoir. And on that level the book, while not a great one,  is not a bad one either.  Ms. Holman is the daughter of what appeared to be a normal enough middle-class family until one day, when she was eight, her mother announced to her - privately - that that they had been inducted into a secret army and ordered to set up a field hospital for refugee children who would be fleeing from the coming war. The mother really did receive these orders too, but they were coming from voices in her head, not from the CIA, and they manifested nothing more or less than an early stage of schizophrenia. She bundled up young Virginia and her baby sister, abandoned the father, and drove off to live in the family's summer cottage, essentially a shack from the sound of it , located outside a small beach town on the Virginia coast. This opening seemed to portend a nightmarish Patty-Hearst-like story of abusive craziness, but oddly that never quite materialized. It  seems they had relatives nearby, with other children, and Virginia was enrolled in a local school. Things seemed half-way normal much of the time, despite the dysfunctional environment at home. We actually don't hear much more about the mother's \\"secret war\\", or even all that much about the mother herself until the end. Most of the book consists of short, impressionistic vignettes of  Virginia hanging out with her cousins and trying, with some success,  to make friends at school. The father re-appears at one point, announcing he's moving into the shack with them. He loves his daughters and is unwilling to abandon the mother, even though there's nothing he can do to arrest the progress of her disease. A strong, decent man,  and the sad hero of this story, he gets a real-estate job in a local bank and manages to earn a living for everybody. He protects the girls while doing what he can to help the mother, even though she refuses medical treatment. Her disease gets worse, and when she does start becoming abusive, the father moves the girls out of the shack, but still returns daily to care for the mother. Once day she cuts all the wiring in the house in order to remove the CIA wiretaps, and this dangerous act finally gets the attention of the local authorities, who give the father the authority he had been seeking to hospitalize her. Ms. Holman eventually goes on the college, marries and has a child of her own. And that's about it. She's haunted by her past and by fears that the disease could be genetic, but she seems to be living happily enough.  This is a story that could have happened anytime to the family a schizophrenic parent, and there's really not  much in the book about  the \\"decade gone mad\\",  a  misleading subtitle probably inserted by her editors. Ms. Holman is a talented writer, and shehas an interesting story, both sad and uplifting. People who take up the book for what it is may find it enlightening. However, for me it drifted a little aimlessly, and I can't give it much more than a qualified recommendation.has an interesting story, both sad and uplifting. People who take up the book for what it is may find it enlightening. However, for me it drifted a little aimlessly, and I can't give it much more than a qualified recommendation.	2003-10-26
US	52790555	R1IEXZPFW0S25R	0393310868	555677229	Stonewall: A Biography of General Thomas J. Jackson	Books	4	29	32	N	N	Portrait of a Strange and Brilliant Man	This is an interesting and well-written biography, although not one that I found to be satisfactory on every level. Like John Kennedy and other public figures who died violently at the height of their careers, Stonewall Jackson entered into history in a kind of apotheosis which probably tended  to exaggerate his achievements. Aware of the adulatory material that has been written, Byron Farwall is not exactly on a debunking crusade with this book, but he strives so hard for objectivity that readers have to wonder if he errs on the other side and exaggerates the shortcomings of his subject. It's no distortion, of course, to portray Jackson as a quirky personality - the historical record leaves little doubt about that.  Like Ulysses Grant, George Pickett, and  other military leaders who achieved prominence during the Civil War, Jackson went through West Point with a relatively undistinguished record.  A rough country boy with minimal early education, Jackson had to work doubly hard for everything he did accomplish, and he had a reputation for being something of an odd duck and a bumpkin. Two enduring aspects of his nature already apparent at this stage, however, were ambition and a ruthless self-discipline, and he had managed to climb from near the bottom of his class to the top third by the time he graduated. Again like other future Civil War leaders, his first exposure to combat was in the Mexican War, where he was assigned as an artillery officer. He  demonstrated a talent for command there, but what marked him more than anything was a utter fearlessness under fire and a hunger to distinguish himself, an objective he accomplished despite what was for Jackson the disappointingly short duration of the war.  Assigned later to garrison duty in Florida, his frustrated ambition, no doubt aggravated by boredom, propelled him into petty but vicious conflict with his commanding officer, an ugly little affair in which Jackson revealed his propensity for sustained vendettas against people seemingly out of portion with any real offense. Disillusioned with the peacetime military, Jackson took a job as an instructor at the young Virginia Military Institute. He seemed happy enough in this job, which he held for ten years, even though by most accounts  he lacked much talent for it, his stiff manner and inarticulate speech making him unpopular with students. He heard his real calling, of course, with the coming of the Civil War, and he lost no time in seizing the opportunity. It is in the depiction of Jackson's wartime military career that this biography fails for me. It's can't be wholly without reason that Jackson became the legend he did, and  Robert E. Lee - nothing if not a judge of military talent - observed  that the Southern Cause suffered more from the loss of Jackson at Chancellorsville than it gained from the victory. Yet even though Farwell  acknowledges Jackson's  \\"brilliance\\", even occasionally  his \\"genius\\", these qualities really don't come alive in the narrative.  In describing Jackson's victories, Farwell invariably focuses on the incompetence of his opponents, or on the valor of his soldiers, or on his \\"luck\\" in somehow being in the right place at the right time. Except in a couple of episodes, we don't really get a feel for the man in action. In contrast, Jackson's failures, such as during the \\"Seven Days\\" campaign in the summer of `62, are placed squarely on his shoulders, recounted for us in the context of his  poor planning,  rashness,  compulsive secrecy, inability to accept advice, and his often dysfunctional relations with peers and subordinates. Farwell does a more balanced job, in my judgment, in depicting Jackson's personality and his private life. We certainly see the vindictiveness, self-righteousness,  and eccentricity that often characterized his behavior. But Farwell reveals another side to the man as well. Numerous accounts survive that indicate a great deal of personal warmth and humor when he was relaxing with friends or family. Prior to the war, he spent time in New York and Europe, clearly enjoying cosmopolitan pleasures seemingly at odds with the stereotypical  image of him as a dour Presbyterian fanatic. His relationship with his wife, while  patronizing by modern standards,  was intensely loving and faithful, and fully reciprocal.  Apparently based in fact was the odd and touching story portrayed in the recent movie \\"Gods and Generals\\". During one lull in the fighting, Jackson spent time at a private home near Fredericksburg, where a little girl attached herself too him, coaxing out of him a playful and kindly side rarely apparent during the war years. To the astonishment of his staff, Jackson wept openly when news came to him later that the child had died of scarlet fever. After being wounded in a nighttime \\"friendly fire\\" incident in the very midst of his triumph at Chancellorsville, Jackson had an arm amputated and died from pneumonia contracted during his convalescence. The  religious faith which led him to see the hand of God in every victory or defeat, allowed him to approach this painful demise with the same disregard he showed towards the prospect of sudden death in battle. This complex and contradictory portrait of Jackson seems consistent with his nature, and I found this dimension of Mr. Farwell's book to be highly enlightening. While I haven't read other biographies of Stonewall , I  imagine that further reading is necessary to get a fully rounded picture of  the man's role in the American Civil War.ith friends or family. Prior to the war, he spent time in New York and Europe, clearly enjoying cosmopolitan pleasures seemingly at odds with the stereotypical  image of him as a dour Presbyterian fanatic. His relationship with his wife, while  patronizing by modern standards,  was intensely loving and faithful, and fully reciprocal.  Apparently based in fact was the odd and touching story portrayed in the recent movie \\"Gods and Generals\\". During one lull in the fighting, Jackson spent time at a private home near Fredericksburg, where a little girl attached herself too him, coaxing out of him a playful and kindly side rarely apparent during the war years. To the astonishment of his staff, Jackson wept openly when news came to him later that the child had died of scarlet fever. After being wounded in a nighttime \\"friendly fire\\" incident in the very midst of his triumph at Chancellorsville, Jackson had an arm amputated and died from pneumonia contracted during his convalescence. The  religious faith which led him to see the hand of God in every victory or defeat, allowed him to approach this painful demise with the same disregard he showed towards the prospect of sudden death in battle. This complex and contradictory portrait of Jackson seems consistent with his nature, and I found this dimension of Mr. Farwell's book to be highly enlightening. While I haven't read other biographies of Stonewall , I  imagine that further reading is necessary to get a fully rounded picture of  the man's role in the American Civil War.	2003-10-25
US	52790555	R3PBDA2INM9DUK	0684849267	203897764	Grant	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Straightforward  Biography of a Straightforward Man	Most historical figures come down to us in effigies of themselves, and Ulysses Grant resides in the popular imagination today as a legendary general but a feckless president who presided over a passive administration while robber barons looted the country. I always sensed there had to be something wrong with this discordant picture of Grant, and this excellent biography set it right for me, sketching out the remarkable character traits which not only account for his success as a general, but also made him, in the author's view,  a strong  president who saved the country from what could have been even worse turmoil and injustice than what in fact prevailed at the end of ruinous civil war. Never particularly interested in the military, Grant as a young man entered  West Point solely for the purpose of obtaining an engineering education that would facilitate a respectable civilian career.  As destiny would have it, however, he graduated just in time to enter service in the Mexican War. He was exposed briefly to combat there, and he performed well enough. His actual job, though,  was quartermaster,  and what he displayed more than anything was an extraordinary diligence in coping effectively with prosaic,  unfamiliar work and, through trial and error, accomplishing what was expected of him. Unlike many of his glory-seeking young peers, he was happy when the war ended, because he was able to return to his wife, whom he adored, and undertake the comfortable business career he envisioned for himself.  Unfortunately, business turned out to be his area of incompetence, as he revealed a serial proclivity for trusting the wrong people and committing himself to luckless investments. A life of obscurity and failure seemingly would have been his lot were it not for the advent of the Civil War. As one of the few men in his home area with any military experience, he was called back to service to muster and organize local troops. Like other West Pointers, he soon found himself commanding ever-increasing numbers of men, and as he encountered combat, he did well enough to begin attracting the attention of the Federal administration. His victories at Donaldson and Shiloh demonstrated both his relentless trail-and-error approach to warfare and his imperturbability in the face of seeming defeat. At Vicksburg he captured  a strategic stronghold that both sides had hitherto deemed impregnable, and in so doing,  he accomplished one of the major turning points of the war.  Lincoln by this time was utterly frustrated by repeated failures of his commanders in the Eastern theater, all of whom typified the flashy arrogance of 19th century military officers, but each of  whom  in turn had been quickly humbled  by the wily and aggressive tactics of Robert E. Lee. Grant appeared to be answer to Lincoln's prayers, and being quickly promoted over the heads of more senior officers, Grant assumed overall command of the Union armies. Knowing, as Lincoln did,  that the protracted stalemate developing in Virginia threatened to force a negotiated end the war on Confederate terms, Grant wasted no time in launching the bloody campaigns that finally took full advantage of the North's superior resources and manpower. He made costly mistakes, but unlike his predecessors, he took them in stride and pressed relentlessly on,  destroying Lee's proud army and achieving victory for the Union in less than two years. Suddenly this quiet, dusty man was an international celebrity and, almost against his will,  a  rising star in American politics.  After Lincoln's assassination and the welcome departure of Andrew Johnson,  the presidency virtually fell into Grant's lap, as seemingly the only man capable of  restoring the nation. Surprisingly well-regarded in much of the South because of his conciliatory approach at Appomattox, he nonetheless sincerely believed in the justice  of Union cause. He ruthlessly suppressed the Ku Klux Klan and others in the South who sought to reverse theWar's outcome, while at the same time he restrained self-serving Northern politicians trying to exploit Reconstruction for private gain. Privately, he displayed an honest concern for the plights of blacks and American Indians, as he had for the Mexicans two decades earlier, and his restraining hand probably eased the violence that afflicted these peoples. Despite his personal inexperience, he dealt with economic and diplomatic crisises with the same imperturbably that marked his style as a general. Scrupulously honest during an era that could have made him rich, he emerged from the Presidency penniless, even though he had powerful  friends who tried to help him.  Perhaps imagining he could now erase the memory of past failures,  he turned his hand to business again, this time Wall Street, but his odd naivet&eacute; reasserted itself, and he fell victim to swindlers. Having now to cast around for means of bare sustenance,  he turned  to writing magazine articles, for which he was paid pittances.  Mark Twain befriended him around this time and, owning his own publishing company by now, the famous author offered Grant a generous contract for his memoirs.  It was probably Grant's insatiable passion for cigars that finally caught up with him, for he was diagnosed with throat cancer during this bitter-sweet period of his life. Rising to an unfamiliar challenge for one last time, he labored diligently over his book through the rigors of cancer,  finishing shortly before his death. The book met critical and popular success, earning a small fortune for his widow. Jean Edward  Smith is obviously partial to Grant, as biographers often are to their subjects, but even allowing for this, the story told here rings true and  is deeply satisfying to American tastes. Grant typified the combination of unassuming virtues  and great power that Americans tend to identify with.  Like Grant  himself, this biography can't really be called brilliant, but it conveys an honest, clear picture of a fascinating man,  and I highly recommend it.War's outcome, while at the same time he restrained self-serving Northern politicians trying to exploit Reconstruction for private gain. Privately, he displayed an honest concern for the plights of blacks and American Indians, as he had for the Mexicans two decades earlier, and his restraining hand probably eased the violence that afflicted these peoples. Despite his personal inexperience, he dealt with economic and diplomatic crisises with the same imperturbably that marked his style as a general. Scrupulously honest during an era that could have made him rich, he emerged from the Presidency penniless, even though he had powerful  friends who tried to help him.  Perhaps imagining he could now erase the memory of past failures,  he turned his hand to business again, this time Wall Street, but his odd naivet reasserted itself, and he fell victim to swindlers. Having now to cast around for means of bare sustenance,  he turned  to writing magazine articles, for which he was paid pittances.  Mark Twain befriended him around this time and, owning his own publishing company by now, the famous author offered Grant a generous contract for his memoirs.  It was probably Grant's insatiable passion for cigars that finally caught up with him, for he was diagnosed with throat cancer during this bitter-sweet period of his life. Rising to an unfamiliar challenge for one last time, he labored diligently over his book through the rigors of cancer,  finishing shortly before his death. The book met critical and popular success, earning a small fortune for his widow. Jean Edward  Smith is obviously partial to Grant, as biographers often are to their subjects, but even allowing for this, the story told here rings true and  is deeply satisfying to American tastes. Grant typified the combination of unassuming virtues  and great power that Americans tend to identify with.  Like Grant  himself, this biography can't really be called brilliant, but it conveys an honest, clear picture of a fascinating man,  and I highly recommend it.	2003-10-12
US	52790555	RHSLJSX1WKBPX	034538623X	484061988	The Guns of August (Modern Library 100 Best Nonfiction Books)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Limited but Superb History	This book deserves its lofty reputation. Contrary to my expectation when I picked it up, although true to its title, The Guns of August is not a  history of World War I, but of only its opening month,  preceded by a background summary. This is an unusual approach to the Great War, although the author herself alluded to it as stemming from her fascination with the \\"aura\\" of that one month in which so many illusions were dispelled and in which everyone could feel the old order of Europe coming to an abrupt end. The book opens with an account of the famous 1910 funeral of England's King Edward VII, at which virtually all of Europe's royalty was present and looking very much like the big inbred family it was:  not exactly a happy family,  but one no reasonable observer could have  imagined to be on the verge of a self-inflicted bloodbath. Mrs. Tuckman treats us to a  novelistic account of the pageantry, but then immediately takes us behind the scene to the jealousies, fears, and ambitions that lurked on that day. We read about the German Kaiser,  bristling with Teutonic chauvinism and at the same time poignantly aware of being snubbed by his royal peers, whose gossipy letters and diary entries made clear the low regard in which they held him and his nation.  In a few short pages the author thus sketches out beautifully the psychological roots of the coming war. Still in background mode, she moves onto the pundits of the day who believed that rising prosperity and economic interdependence spelled an end to European war. She contrasts this with steely insight of the military planners in all countries, who seemed not only to consider war inevitable but to know exactly how it would unfold once the fighting got underway. The fatal error the all had in common, however, was the universal belief that the war would be short, won by whomever seized the initiative in the beginning. This \\"cult of the offensive\\" gave rise the treacherous hair-trigger environment whereby even a minor and accidental aggression would inevitably escalate as the players leap to deny their enemies the all-important early initiative. The \\"damned fool thing\\", as it was described in anticipation by Kaiser Wilhelm,  turned out to be the assassination of  the Austrian Archduke by Serbian nationalists in June of 1914. Mrs. Tuckman doesn't dwell on this at all, and she gives no more than a clipped summary of the resulting skirmish between Austria and Serbia that set the whole clockwork mechanism into motion as alliance commitments were triggered: Russia leaping to Serbia's defense, drawing in Germany, and then France, and then England, all in turn.  She brushes past all this in her hurry to get to what really interests her, which is the titanic early struggle between France and Germany. Once this is underway, she writes like a trained military historian - which she in fact was not - and describes the flow of warfare in commanding detail. Interwoven in all this are telling portraits of key military and political figures among the major combatants. She neither lionizes or demonizes anyone on either side, portraying all of them as limited human beings struggling with circumstances which dwarfed their abilities. The closest thing to a hero in this account is King Albert of little Belgium, whose principled and unexpected defiance of the German juggernaut in the opening days  slowed it down just enough to make what was in the end probably the critical difference. The author also has a soft spot for General Gallieni, military governor of Paris, who seemingly alone within the panicked French military,  recognized that the overextended and over-confident Germans were vulnerable. Rallying subordinates, peers and superiors alike to counterattack at the critical moment, he is portrayed as launching the maneuvers that drove the Germans back from what they assumed was to be the fast and tidy victory foreseen by their planners. This would have been a much neater and more satisfying story, of course, had it happily ended at this point, gallant Frenchmen glowing in triumph over the surprised and beaten Huns. Unfortunately, as we know, all these heroics accomplished was to set the stage for the years of monstrous carnage that were to follow. Mrs. Tuckman does in fact bring her account to an end here, saying later that describing the intricacies of the entire war were beyond her abilities as a historian. More likely, she was simply bored by the prospect of  recounting the interminable and grim stalemate that unfolded in the trenches of France. Considering herself a writer first and a historian second, she was able to shrug off the disciplines that bind academic historians,  and she wrote about what captured her imagination.  This selective focus is the book's main limitation, but it's also the quality that makes it more coherent and readable that more comprehensive histories of the War. I highly recommend it.y, of course, had it happily ended at this point, gallant Frenchmen glowing in triumph over the surprised and beaten Huns. Unfortunately, as we know, all these heroics accomplished was to set the stage for the years of monstrous carnage that were to follow. Mrs. Tuckman does in fact bring her account to an end here, saying later that describing the intricacies of the entire war were beyond her abilities as a historian. More likely, she was simply bored by the prospect of  recounting the interminable and grim stalemate that unfolded in the trenches of France. Considering herself a writer first and a historian second, she was able to shrug off the disciplines that bind academic historians,  and she wrote about what captured her imagination.  This selective focus is the book's main limitation, but it's also the quality that makes it more coherent and readable that more comprehensive histories of the War. I highly recommend it.	2003-09-19
US	52790555	RCOOQAQO903QS	0195148312	508453670	The Isles: A History	Books	3	13	14	N	Y	A RAMBLING AND DISJOINTED HISTORY	Norman Davies is a knowledgeable historian, but I found this book to be unsatisfactory.  As an overview of UK history,  the narrative wanders aimlessly, pre-occupied with certain issues while brushing over critical themes with little more than oblique references. Professor Davies'  ideological agenda explains some of this,  since he seems determined to debunk traditional Anglo-centric versions the history which have failed to emphasize the French and Germanic roots of the British ruling class, and which have ignored or distorted history of the Celtic regions. While probably fair enough at some  level, the author's attitude  results in a book that reads at times more like a rambling and opinionated history of British history than a disciplined account of how England, Scotland, Ireland and Wales came to be what they are today. Adding to the difficulty are stylistic problems which mar the book.  I found much of the first 600 pages almost unreadable,  given to endless displays of factual virtuosity without much effort to place anything into perspective. Since I find it hard to explain exactly what I mean here, to give an idea let me quote more or less randomly (this from page 285): \\"After that the marriage of Alexander (r.1107-24) to an illegitimate daughter of  Henri I, and Henri I's marriage to Edith-Matilda, daughter of Malcolm III and Margaret, and sister to four Scottish kings, tied the dynastic, political and cultural strands of the knot for several generations. David I (r. 1124-53), youngest son of Malcolm and  Margaret, was brought up at the English court as David fitzMalcom, Earl of Huntington and Northhamton.\\" There are places where Davies goes on like this for pages on end,  and I defy anyone not already well-versed in the history to make much sense out of it. Anyone who is well-versed, of course, doesn't need this sort of book in the first place, raising the question of what audience Professor Davies is trying to reach.  He changes gear abruptly in the latter half of the book, and from there on the narrative becomes more readable, although the problem of idiosyncratic focus if anything gets worse,  the text devolving more or less into a series of essays on loosely-related historical topics. He starts to number his sections at this point,  devoting one each to the British civil service, the aristocracy, the economy, sports, currency, demographics, the monarchy, language, parliament, the navy, and so forth. Through all this, major historical figures - Victoria, Churchill, Disraeli, others, along with a bewildering array of minor ones - appear seemingly out of nowhere in the context of one topic or another, then they disappear again without any sense of who they were or what impact they had on the evolution of their nation. The major wars in which Britain fought are mentioned, but again out of context. The author devotes more space to describing the rules of cricket at one point than he does to recounting the political or military history of the Napoleonic wars or the American Revolution. Even the great world wars of the twentieth century get less space than do expansive quotations from novels, poems and old histories which the author reproduces with abandon throughout the book. In the last few pages, Davies begins to pontificate openly, \\"taking off the mask\\", as he describes it. He announces his belief that the disintegration of the United Kingdom is imminent. This is clearly the conclusion to which he's been driving for over 1000 pages, and he may well prove right about this if the political leaders of the UK suffer from his same inability to focus on critical issues. I also read this author's single-volume history of Europe, to which I had many of the same objections. In his introductions, he proclaims himself a champion of popular, big-picture history, and declares his distaste for the trend among his peers for writing \\"more and more about less and less\\". I keep reading his work because I happen to share this point ofview, hoping vainly to find a \\"big picture\\" in all this jumbled detail. I probably don't feel quite as negative about this book as all this sounds - I did learn from it. However, I would suggest to prospective readers that there must be easier ways than this to get an overview of British historyf view, hoping vainly to find a \\"big picture\\" in all this jumbled detail. I probably don't feel quite as negative about this book as all this sounds - I did learn from it. However, I would suggest to prospective readers that there must be easier ways than this to get an overview of British history	2003-05-17
US	52790555	R3V04WIXPFKAZC	039330048X	194237010	Alexander Hamilton: A Biography	Books	4	21	25	N	N	A Brilliant But Unbalanced Account	This is a well-written and thought-provoking book, but at the same time one that I found unsatisfactory on certain levels. For one thing, as a biography, it's limited in scope, providing little information about Hamilton's life beyond his administrative and political affairs. His childhood and youth are dispensed with in about 15 pages, and the American Revolution - in which Hamilton participated as an senior aid to Washington and as combat officer - is already over by page 25,  bypassing what one assumes should have been a wealth of fascinating material. His wife is mentioned no more that the few times, his children hardly at all, and we learn very little about his personal relationships with the other leading figures of his era.  A life-and-times style biography was obviously not part of the author's design in the first place,  and this criticism may thus be irrelevant, but a more substantive problem is the bias that pervades his book. While it's common enough for biographers to fall in love with their protagonists, Professor McDonald to carries his enthusiasm to an extreme. I'm not a historian by any means, but I've read enough to know that the men surrounding Alexander Hamilton were a prodigiously gifted array of politicians. Yet a reader who knew nothing of the period beyond the contents of this book would have the impression that they were a collection of relative mediocrities who paled in the light of Hamilton's genius. Even Washington, who comes off better than most, seems to have achieved success only through his willingness to acquiesce, most of the time, to Hamilton's unerring behind-the-scenes guidance. Hamilton's enemies are portrayed as conniving villains,  and the arch-villain, Thomas Jefferson, appears to have had no purpose to his life other than to foil Hamilton's otherwise infallible blueprint for a happy and prosperous nation.  The fact that Hamilton himself probably more-or-less saw his world in this light is more understandable than how a historian two centuries later could succumb the this same lack of objectivity. Despite these failings, Professor McDonald has nonetheless produced a remarkable study here, and I learned a great deal from it. What emerges is the portrait of a man who, even allowing for the author's partiality,  was indeed  probably the most forward-looking of his peers in his understanding of what the United States was to become. Modern Americans take for granted their colossal economic might and geopolitical dominance. Yet post-revolutionary America was a weak, divided country run by agrarians generally hostile to the formation of the finance capital and industrial enterprise. The essence of the Federalist vision for America was that establishment of a strong central government was necessary to facilitate economic development. And Hamilton's unique contribution to this vision  was his understanding of  the critical importance that a dynamic system of national credit and currency would play in bringing about  prosperity. Hamilton was a supremely ambitious man, yet his aspirations propelled him not to be a king or a president or a conquering general.  When the new American government formed following the revolution, the only post he desired - easily granted to him by Washington - was Treasury Secretary. It was from this position that he believed he could establish the monetary foundations critical to the fledging economic powerhouse he sought to nurture. His political opponents, led by Jefferson,  understood this vision only too well as one that would result in a tumultuous transfer of wealth and power to industrialists and bankers, at the expense of the agrarian order they hoped to perpetuate. One insight implicit in this story, even though the author doesn't draw it for us, is the obvious nature of the link between this post-revolutionary conflict and the great civil war what was to ignite half a century later. It couldn't be clearer that it was the Federalist dream for America, well-rooted by the mid-nineteenth century, that  drove the Southern Confederacy to revolt. That same dream finally emerged in full flower in the following century as Yankee industrialism triumphed and Hamilton's Dollar achieved preeminence. Hamilton's death in 1805 following a duel with Aaron Burr has to have been one of the weirdest and most dramatic incidents in American history. Yet it is characteristic of this biography that the event is described only briefly and dryly in the epilogue. Hamilton was a brilliant man, but one whose personal arrogance probably contributed unnecessarily to the partisan hatred of the post-war years and no doubt as well to his own premature demise.  For me it was interesting to learn that Hamilton's son also died in a dual, three years before his father, at a time when this  violent custom  had become rare. This remarkable co-incidence suggests a fiery dynamic in the Hamilton family which this book leaves us totally in the dark about, as it does about many other dimensions of his life and character. To the extent Professor McDonald sought to trace Hamilton's development as a political thinker and the practical impact of his work on the nation's founding, this well-written biography succeeds admirably. However, readers seeking a balanced and full account of the man's  life will have to look to other sources.ted by the mid-nineteenth century, that  drove the Southern Confederacy to revolt. That same dream finally emerged in full flower in the following century as Yankee industrialism triumphed and Hamilton's Dollar achieved preeminence. Hamilton's death in 1805 following a duel with Aaron Burr has to have been one of the weirdest and most dramatic incidents in American history. Yet it is characteristic of this biography that the event is described only briefly and dryly in the epilogue. Hamilton was a brilliant man, but one whose personal arrogance probably contributed unnecessarily to the partisan hatred of the post-war years and no doubt as well to his own premature demise.  For me it was interesting to learn that Hamilton's son also died in a dual, three years before his father, at a time when this  violent custom  had become rare. This remarkable co-incidence suggests a fiery dynamic in the Hamilton family which this book leaves us totally in the dark about, as it does about many other dimensions of his life and character. To the extent Professor McDonald sought to trace Hamilton's development as a political thinker and the practical impact of his work on the nation's founding, this well-written biography succeeds admirably. However, readers seeking a balanced and full account of the man's  life will have to look to other sources.	2003-03-12
US	52790555	R2FVG7A1409JWJ	0393323528	601624284	Next: The Future Just Happened	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Brilliant, Funny, Thought-Provoking Book	I think Michael Lewis is a brilliant writer, and this book is another little gem from him. He writes a lot like Tom Wolfe, and like Wolfe takes a rollicking interest in transformational social trends, which as a former investment banker, Lewis thinks about in the context of business and technology.  His central idea here is that contemporary technology, most importantly the Internet, is undermining the established order in all sectors of our society by democratizing information and access to markets. Lewis researched this book by hanging out with a lot of very ordinary people, some of them scruffy adolescents, whose lives have nonetheless become lightning rods for extraordinary developments. He starts with Jonathan Lebod,  the 15 year old New Jersey kid who a couple of years ago brought down on himself  the full wrath of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission by earning nearly a million dollars in trading profits through stock manipulation, all of it accomplished between school and bedtime over a PC in his room.  A true investigative journalist at heart, Lewis spent days with young Jonathan,  eating meals with his lower middle-class family and accompanying him to school. The portrait that emerges is of a fairly typical  adolescent - bright enough, but certainly no genius -  who learned how to hack around the Internet and, in the process, developed an uncannily accurate sense of how financial markets work. Lewis's own career started on Wall Street - so he knows what he's talking about here -  and the point he's making is that power elites, such as Wall Street professionals, depend more on privileged access to information  and markets than they do on any really proprietary expertise. Jonathan seemed to stumble pretty easily on what he learned, and once he had it, he played game as effectively as if he'd been a million-dollar-a-year Solomon Brothers trader. Lewis portrays the comically ferocious response of the SEC to this small incident as representing an intuitive understanding on their part that Jonathan Lebod represented the early stages of something deeply threatening. The author seems to be suggesting that they have good reason to worry. Lewis tells several other  stories in this vein,  all of them based in-person research and all of them demonstrating ordinary people discovering, more-or-less inadvertently, some quirky application of new technology which allows them to outwit or outperform established institutions or experts. He tells us about Marillion, an over-the-hill rock group  who, when dumped  unceremoniously by their record company,  discovered they could thumb their noses at the industry by direct marketing to their loyal fans over the internet. Their careers rose to new heights. He also tells us about Marcus Arnold, another adolescent,  who became the top-ranked legal expert on AskMe.com until jealous middle-aged competitors, with expensive law degrees and years of highly-compensated experience, spilled to beans to Marcus's online clients that he was a 15 years-old brat. It seems the clients didn't really care, though, and Marcus soon regained his ranking!  Lewis  takes an elfish glee in all these nerds, children and little people getting the better of  grown-up establishment types. In a cleaned-up, erudite kind of way, there are echoes of Abbie Hoffman in his writing. While Lewis isn't giving us a treatise here, and he doesn't spend much time theorizing, he does try to spell out briefly what he's getting at, which is that the  direction of modern technology is leading us into ever more extreme forms of democracy. He believes that established social and economic patterns will continue to be threatened by nobodies armed with new knowledge and access formally controlled and guarded by powerful elites.  While Lewis clearly enjoys the comic spectacle in all this, if you read him carefully, you begin to realize he's not himself necessarily a partisan of this revolution. He's just the story-teller.  Lest there beany doubt about his ambivalence, the last chapter of this book is entitled \\"The Unabomber Had a Point\\". In it, Lewis talks about a number of former high-tech gurus who have begun to have second thoughts about their lives, raising critical questions about the direction of  technology, even gravitating towards a kind of modern-day Ludditism . While Lewis is careful not to adopt this stance either, he is clearly thinking about it, and wants us to think about it too. There have been many lengthy tomes in recent years written on the evolution of technology, and I found this little book to be more thought provoking than just about anything I've seen. It's also hilarious and easy to read, and I highly recommend it.any doubt about his ambivalence, the last chapter of this book is entitled \\"The Unabomber Had a Point\\". In it, Lewis talks about a number of former high-tech gurus who have begun to have second thoughts about their lives, raising critical questions about the direction of  technology, even gravitating towards a kind of modern-day Ludditism . While Lewis is careful not to adopt this stance either, he is clearly thinking about it, and wants us to think about it too. There have been many lengthy tomes in recent years written on the evolution of technology, and I found this little book to be more thought provoking than just about anything I've seen. It's also hilarious and easy to read, and I highly recommend it.	2003-01-11
US	52790555	R3D80EAC5RF5AQ	0385500521	288543952	Carnage and Culture: Landmark Battles in the Rise of Western Power	Books	4	15	19	N	N	Excellent Writing, Interesting Book, but Strained Theory	Carnage and Culture is a fascinating and very well written book. Professor Hanson's subject is Western military prowess, which in his view stems from inherent cultural advantages that have, for the past two and a half millennia,  endowed the West with a uniquely lethal way of waging war against its adversaries. He chooses nine landmark battles in which western armies either triumphed, usually against numerical odds, or else recovered from defeat with a vigor that demonstrated indomitable military superiority. He starts with the dramatic naval victory of the ancient Greeks over the invading Persians at Salamis, and moves chronologically forward up through the so-called Tet Offensive, in which twentieth century Americans battled Vietnamese communists. Along the way, he discusses Cortez's destruction of the Aztecs,  the British conquest of the Zulu nation, the American victory over the Japanese navy at the Midway, and four other bloody encounters between Western forces and Muslim, African or Asian adversaries. Professor Hanson opens each chapter with a vivid description of the battle itself, then devotes the remainder of his text to placing the battle into the political and social context of it's time and to weaving in the threads that tie it to the bigger historical picture he wants us to see. While I found Carnage and Culture to be highly thought-provoking, I have some problems with it too. Critics on the left will discern a conservative ideological agenda at work here, most obviously in the Vietnam chapter, where he digresses into a well-argued but off-the-subject attack on the 60's anti-war Left and the media. Beyond that, the book tends to strain as the author squeezes 2500 years of complex history into a pretty narrow dimension. He's selective in his focus and dismissive of  much that doesn't seem to fit.  Problematically, he never really addresses the question of what he, or the rest of us,  mean exactly when we  talk about \\"The West\\". He states, and I think sincerely, that he's not making any kind of  racialist argument here. But then what? Aztecs or American Indians or Zulus are not part of \\"The West\\". Alexander the Great was, but presumably contemporary Macedonians would not be. Oddly, he rarely mentions the Russians, and it's not clear which box he would put them into - probably NonWest, since they usually seem to lose their wars.  If what he's really doing is simply generalizing about technologically underdeveloped people and telling us they lose wars,  then the argument devolves into tautology.  But I think he's doing quite a bit more than that. Hanson is a professor of classical studies, and  his understanding of the ancient Greeks permeates this book. If pressed on the issue, he would probably define \\"The West\\" in the conventional manner as those societies whose cultural and intellectual roots can be traced back to these remarkable people. Reduced to basics, Hanson's thesis is that it is the spirit of empirical pragmatism - i.e., scientific method - that facilitates development of tools for cultural, economic and military dominance. At this level, of course, the argument is beyond debate and too obvious to be of much interest. However, he goes on to argue that it is the spirit of democracy which unleashes the full power of scientific method, providing  both the creative freedom and the incentive necessary for an unrestrained pursuit of practical objectives, including the annihilation of enemies on the battlefield. Since the ancient Greeks were pioneers of both scientific method and democracy, it is with them that we see the first flourishing of this lethal combination. It is with them and with modern-day Americans that Hanson's thesis rings most convincingly, but with much that lies between,  it tends to falter. Hanson, to my mind, goes too far in attributing the benefits of democracy and scientific method somehow to the various monarchies and autocracies that have dominated much of Western history until recently.Furthermore, he seems to rely too much on assumption and stereotypical thinking in describing the relative disadvantages of the ancient Persians, medieval Muslims, and the other non-Western adversaries, about whom historians really know very little. Hanson teaches at an American university, and I'm told by my university friends that at most schools today, debates about \\"The West\\" are fashionable, with embattled conservative minorities generally defending \\"The West\\" against ascendant leftist multi-culturalists. It seems likely that the ideological edge to Hanson's book emanates reflexively from his own pre-occupation with academic politics. It's odd, though, that he isn't arguing any moral superiority on the part of the West, only superior capacity for mass slaughter on the battlefield, a point with which his leftist critics would surely concur. So the debating point would seem to be wasted anyway. Hanson is a lucid thinker, a knowledgeable historian,  and an excellent writer, and despite its limitations,  I enjoyed Carnage and Culture immensely. He could do much more with this subject if he would let himself turn away from the tedious West-NonWest focus and give us an objective study exploring the historical relationship between democracy, science and military power.Furthermore, he seems to rely too much on assumption and stereotypical thinking in describing the relative disadvantages of the ancient Persians, medieval Muslims, and the other non-Western adversaries, about whom historians really know very little. Hanson teaches at an American university, and I'm told by my university friends that at most schools today, debates about \\"The West\\" are fashionable, with embattled conservative minorities generally defending \\"The West\\" against ascendant leftist multi-culturalists. It seems likely that the ideological edge to Hanson's book emanates reflexively from his own pre-occupation with academic politics. It's odd, though, that he isn't arguing any moral superiority on the part of the West, only superior capacity for mass slaughter on the battlefield, a point with which his leftist critics would surely concur. So the debating point would seem to be wasted anyway. Hanson is a lucid thinker, a knowledgeable historian,  and an excellent writer, and despite its limitations,  I enjoyed Carnage and Culture immensely. He could do much more with this subject if he would let himself turn away from the tedious West-NonWest focus and give us an objective study exploring the historical relationship between democracy, science and military power.	2002-12-12
US	52790555	RH4Y916QSPCQ5	0743422465	797821300	Violence of Action (Rogue Warrior)	Books	5	10	14	N	Y	Marchinkos Best Book since Rogue Warrior	Anybody thinking Dick Marchinco had become an anachronism got a wake-up call on 9/11 of last year. Arguably, that included Marchinco himself, since his recent books, while still lots of fun to read, had become formula-driven - not really the work of  a man feeling himself in tune with his times. However, with Violence in Action, Demo Dick is back with us in lethal force,  invigorated once again with the purpose of his life. It's the best book he's produced since the original Rogue Warrior appeared more than a decade ago. While the distinctive Rogue voice will be recognizable to readers of this series,  many of the formulaic elements are diminished or gone - the rambling asides, the sarcastic portraits of inept bureaucrats, the convoluted accounts of  global detective work, punctuated by  stylized bursts of action, as Dick and his boys unravel some new terrorist conspiracy. Violence of Action, in contrast, proceeds without digression, like a cannon shot from page one to the end. Surprisingly, Marchino chooses  not to exploit the mood of the times here to cast Islamic militants as his villains. His Bad Guys are American white supremacists who spout mystical gibberish about Yahweh and have seized a nuclear device with which they plan to incinerate Portland, Oregon. Moreover, they're not only home-grown Americans, but former Navy Seals -  blood brothers to Dick - who have drifted way off the reservation and betrayed everything he holds holy. The fury with which he hunts them down is unprecedented in anything he's written. There's a graphic torture scene early in the book that I could have done without and that most readers will find abhorrent. However, Dick doesn't revel in the ugly business - he simply describes it -  and he seems to be making a philosophical point of sorts, since the information extracted from one thug's pain, in the end, saves the lives of half a million or so innocents. Ironically, in this most furious of his books, Marchinco seems finally to have wrapped his testosterone-addled brain around the idea of females in the military: both the fiercest warrior on his new combat team, and his new boss, whom he honestly respects, are women. Who says that Old Rogues are set in their attitudes? Anyone who reads Marchinco either loves him or hates him - he destroys all middle ground. His fans will be enthralled by this book,  and to them I recommend it.rapped his testosterone-addled brain around the idea of females in the military: both the fiercest warrior on his new combat team, and his new boss, whom he honestly respects, are women. Who says that Old Rogues are set in their attitudes? Anyone who reads Marchinco either loves him or hates him - he destroys all middle ground. His fans will be enthralled by this book,  and to them I recommend it.	2002-11-16
US	52790555	R2SGZ66L2QWB1N	0312420234	482567189	Hooking Up	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Disjointed Flashes of Brilliance	I've been a Tom Wolfe fan for more than 30 years and have always been frustrated by the leisurely pace of his literary production. His major works have been few, and he allowed more than a decade to pass between Bonfire of the Vanities and A Man in Full, the tantalizing and highly successful forays into fiction that have marked the maturation of his career.  Apparently Wolfe's publishers, watching financial opportunity dribble away under the weight of writer's block, have been  frustrated too, because \\"Hooking Up\\" gives the impression that the author may have compiled it under duress. The book is largely a collection of previously published pieces, some of them very old,  patched together with  spicy bits of new turn-of-the-millennium type commentary.  I tried my best to discern some pattern to the choice of articles that were included, or to the order in which they were presented, but I  can see little. There's one piece of  short fiction, written very much in the style of his novels, and which is vintage Wolfe, but which loses force thrown in this way as an out-of-context fragment. The rest of the pieces are non-fiction and cover a crazy-quilt of subjects,  many of them  arcane. However, part of the greatness of  Tom Wolfe is that he's never boring, imbuing as he does the most mundane material with intensity, insight  and humor.  In one essay, for example, he tells the story Edward O. Wilson, an introvert who devoted his early life to the scientific study of ants and went on from there to become a famous (among academics)  and highly controversial  proponent  of biological determinism. In a similar nerdy-heroic vein, other republished essays focus on scientists and  sixties technology wizards,  foreshadowing Michael Lewis 30 years later in both style and content. Great writers can be petty human beings at times and, disappointingly, this side of Wolfe's nature is apparent occassionally in Hooking Up, most egregiously in \\"My Three Stooges\\". The `stooges' in this sharp little diatribe turn out to be no lesser personages than Norman Mailer, John Updike,  and John Irving, all three of whom publicly attacked Wolfe when A Man in Full appeared in print. Wolfe's inference that they were motivated by jealousy at the runaway success of his book is probably fair enough, although he stoops to the same level himself here, rounding out the spectacle of America's senior literary titans, the `stooges' plus Wolfe  now,  behaving like a flock of catty old gossips.  The book closes in this same sarcastic mode with  Wolfe's gleeful reproduction of hostile parodies he wrote in the 1960's of the quirky people and stuffy culture surrounding The New Yorker magazine. Despite all these limitations, and despite the venomous writer's shop-talk, Hooking Up is a book that I have to recommend, at least to Tom Wolfe fans. Many of these pieces, taken by themselves, still shimmer with his genius and love of life. They're enough to make us hungry for a real book from him again, a project  which at one point he promises he's currently at work on. We can only hope it doesn't take him another ten years to produce it!arp little diatribe turn out to be no lesser personages than Norman Mailer, John Updike,  and John Irving, all three of whom publicly attacked Wolfe when A Man in Full appeared in print. Wolfe's inference that they were motivated by jealousy at the runaway success of his book is probably fair enough, although he stoops to the same level himself here, rounding out the spectacle of America's senior literary titans, the `stooges' plus Wolfe  now,  behaving like a flock of catty old gossips.  The book closes in this same sarcastic mode with  Wolfe's gleeful reproduction of hostile parodies he wrote in the 1960's of the quirky people and stuffy culture surrounding The New Yorker magazine. Despite all these limitations, and despite the venomous writer's shop-talk, Hooking Up is a book that I have to recommend, at least to Tom Wolfe fans. Many of these pieces, taken by themselves, still shimmer with his genius and love of life. They're enough to make us hungry for a real book from him again, a project  which at one point he promises he's currently at work on. We can only hope it doesn't take him another ten years to produce it!	2002-07-18
US	52790555	R1O42SAV22UFUX	0151006431	510121269	Elvis in the Morning	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	And Interesting, but Odd and Disjointed Book	It seems odd that Bill Buckley, who established his formidable reputation over nearly half a century writing as a political philosopher and polemicist, has made a kind of second career for himself as a novelist  during the past couple of decades.  And what's even odder is the thematic content of his novels, which often seems out of character with what one might anticipate knowing  his political pre-occupations. The generosity of spirit with which he presents his characters, even those we expect him to be out of sympathy with, no doubt confounds Buckley's detractors, who like to characterize him as an unfeeling, intellectualizing zealot.  Buckley's friends are in some cases probably troubled by the same trait, fretful that the old warrior may be harboring a soft spot.  In this light, Elvis in the Morning is Buckley's most surprising book to date, at least among the ones that I 've read. In it, he fashions a relationship between a fictional character,  one Orson Killere, and of all people, Elvis Presley. While I found it difficult to see exactly what Buckley was getting at in this novel, it seems to be about  innocence,  and the tendency of this most endearing of human qualities to turn to self-indulgence and, ultimately, self-destruction. Maybe there's supposed to be a metaphor for America there, but who knows?  Orson, the 15-year-old son of a single mother working for the U.S. military in Germany in the mid 1950's, makes the  local newspapers by stealing a batch of Elvis records form the PX to give away to the poor. Orson, you see, in addition to being an Elvis devotee, has under the influence of kindly Marxist teacher, become a young socialist. Elvis, who was also in Germany at the time for his stint in the Army, hears about the incident and as a sort of publicity stunt, visits the young fan.  Improbably,  the two of them become fast friends, with Orson introducing Elvis to Pricilla Beaulieu, the very same Pricilla Beaulieu who in real life will go on be become Elvis's famous child bride. Time passes and, back in the U.S., Elvis and Orson remain friends. Orson experiences a series of  implausible life adventures, going to college, blossoming into an idealistic student protest leader, getting expelled, hitting the road as a penniless drifter, getting beat up by a hobo, marrying a kind and lovely girl who soon becomes mentally disabled in a car accident, going to work for a start-up technology venture, excelling at the job but getting fired for drug abuse. There's all this and more.  Through it all, however, he stays in contact with Elvis, who is entering into his downward spiral and comes to value Orson as the one friend in his life whose sincerity and judgment he seems to trust. If all this sounds rather campish and weird in the re-telling,  it reads that way too in the original. Several members of Elvis's real-life entourage, including his father Vernon and &quot;Colonel&quot; Tom Parker, appear as characters. The novel continues all the way up through Elvis's drug-induced  death, with Col. Parker towards the end appealing to Orson to use his influence with Elvis to save him.  I confess to enjoying this quirky book.  Buckley's crisp and subtle prose is, as always, a delight to read, and the portrait of Elvis is interesting, showing him as a sincerely generous, talented and charismatic man, albeit childlike,  doomed and half-crazy. However, Elvis in the Morning  is  not a good book, and I can't for the life of me fathom what inspired Buckley to write it, particularly at his stage of life. He seems to have no particular inside track on Elvis and apparently worked from nothing much more than the well-worn biographical material that's publicly available. The book will appeal to a limited segment of Buckley fans, among whom I include myself. Most others will probably want to avoid it.is's famous child bride. Time passes and, back in the U.S., Elvis and Orson remain friends. Orson experiences a series of  implausible life adventures, going to college, blossoming into an idealistic student protest leader, getting expelled, hitting the road as a penniless drifter, getting beat up by a hobo, marrying a kind and lovely girl who soon becomes mentally disabled in a car accident, going to work for a start-up technology venture, excelling at the job but getting fired for drug abuse. There's all this and more.   Through it all, however, he stays in contact with Elvis, who is entering into his downward spiral and comes to value Orson as the one friend in his life whose sincerity and judgment he seems to trust. If all this sounds rather campish and weird in the re-telling,  it reads that way too in the original. Several members of Elvis's real-life entourage, including his father Vernon and &quot;Colonel&quot; Tom Parker, appear as characters. The novel continues all the way up through Elvis's drug-induced  death, with Col. Parker towards the end appealing to Orson to use his influence with Elvis to save him.   I confess to enjoying this quirky book.  Buckley's crisp and subtle prose is, as always, a delight to read, and the portrait of Elvis is interesting, showing him as a sincerely generous, talented and charismatic man, albeit childlike,  doomed and half-crazy. However, Elvis in the Morning  is  not a good book, and I can't for the life of me fathom what inspired Buckley to write it, particularly at his stage of life. He seems to have no particular inside track on Elvis and apparently worked from nothing much more than the well-worn biographical material that's publicly available. The book will appeal to a limited segment of Buckley fans, among whom I include myself. Most others will probably want to avoid it.	2002-01-19
US	52790555	RFVVZZWAZ0YOR	0761535810	405735166	Bin Laden: The Man Who Declared War on America	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Prophetic Account of a Chilling Subject	As might be imagined, &quot;Bid Laden, The Man Who Declared War on America&quot; is an alarming book. And the fact that it was written two years before 9/11/01 makes it more so, since the narrative puts the events of that day into the context of an unfolding political reality that has been too long in the making to be resolved any time soon. The title is somewhat misleading, and I picked the book up thinking it was going to be a biography of sorts. However, other than some perfunctory material on Bid Laden's youth, the study isn't really about Bid Laden himself so much as it is about the violent political movement, of which he is a leader, that has evolved from Islamic eschatology. Bodansky takes his readers on a trip through the snake pit of Middle Eastern and radical Islamic politics, which he portrays as a world where wealth, self-interest, violence, religious doctrine, and state policy are intertwined inextricably. It's also a world where loyalties or even strategic alliances don't seem to exist much beyond ephemeral alignments around tactical objectives that shift with the political wind. In this light, Bodansky - who is a consultant to the U.S. government - reveals much about our supposed friends in the region. He describes Pakistan as one of the primary architects behind the terrorist infrastructure managed by Bid Laden and other leading Islamists.  He portrays the Saudi government as a craven and tottering regime which continues to provide lavish funding to this infrastructure as a kind of protection money to keep it's activities away from Saudi soil. Bodansky, of course, turns his cynical eye on the U.S. too, reminding us that we ourselves collaborated in birthing this movement, nurturing its spectacularly successful war against our one-time enemy,  the Soviet Union. As for the Islamists, they see themselves now as simply continuing to fight the same war, having destroyed one &quot;superpower&quot; and now taking aim at the other in their campaign to overturn the prevailing world order. Bodansky depicts them as dedicated to a eschatological vision in which all secular states are overthrown by whatever means necessary and replaced by a kind of global Islamic government, which will usher in heavenly peace and glory. The parallels between this vision and that of messianic communism are as striking as they are ironic, since both justify political violence as a tool necessary for achieving a glorious albeit it ill-defined future. Of the two visions, the Islamic seems more dangerous in the nuclear age, since doctrinaire communists, being atheists, were made cautious by their belief that they had to achieve their heaven on earth. Bodansky quotes extensively from Bid Laden and others, and their words make clear that they believe that in a global conflagration they would be sending themselves to heaven and their enemies to hell, not inhibiting themselves with much of a disincentive. Bodansky seems to know almost too much about some things, leading one to question the extent to which he might be interjecting his own supposition into this narrative as ostensibly factual material. For example, he states unequivocally the Bid Laden already possesses nuclear weapons, although not necessary the means to deliver them. While this may be true, Bodanksy doesn't provide much basis for his startling conclusion, nor for many of the other observations he makes about the private relationships said to exist between various terrorist factions and governments. In his introduction, he addresses the problem of the credibility of his material by saying that elucidating his sources would compromise their security. While on one level this seems entirely fair, it has the unfortunate effect of relieving the author of a burden which all academic writers should have to bear of drawing a crisp line between conjecture and well-grounded reporting. Despite these limitations, the big picture Bodansky draws clearly has the force of much knowledge behind it, and it is acquires a prophetic aura now in light of the events occurring after the book was written. Most Americans - myself included - are dangerously ignorant about Islam in all its manifestations, both good and bad. While this book, focussing as it does on a violent fringe, probably should be read alongside more balanced treatments of Islamic culture, I recommend it to anyone trying to make sense of the new geo-political environment in which we have suddenly found ourselves.nd it is acquires a prophetic aura now in light of the events occurring after the book was written. Most Americans - myself included - are dangerously ignorant about Islam in all its manifestations, both good and bad. While this book, focussing as it does on a violent fringe, probably should be read alongside more balanced treatments of Islamic culture, I recommend it to anyone trying to make sense of the new geo-political environment in which we have suddenly found ourselves.	2001-12-30
US	52790555	R12G9TW4AHB9XX	0425180964	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	A Good Novel in Need of an Editor	As a writer, Tom Clancy reminds me of an aging athlete whose musculature is still powerful but hidden under expanding layers of fat. The Bear and the Dragon, which is 1136 pages long, could have been a first-rate novel had somebody edited it down to somewhere under 600. As it is, the last 350 pages - which is around where the action starts - is vintage Clancy and pure dynamite. However, Clancy's literary talents are pretty meager when the only action going on is between people,  and that's the problem with most of the first 800 pages. Clancy made his name with a style of writing that can be described without exaggeration as a kind of modern warrior's poetry, depicting the interaction between men, computers and weapons that is the essence of techo-warfare.  He also knows spycraft, and the best of his fiction is focussed on soldiers and spies going about their business, which Clancy portrays as both deadly and heroic. The Bear and the Dragon benefits from all this - Clancy hasn't lost any of his talent. Where he's gone wrong though is in diverting that talent into to the realm of politics, where it tends to founder. We see much the same cast of characters here who have run through all of his fiction, and his main character - Jack Ryan - is again at the center.  Ryan, of course, appeared in Clancy's first novel years ago as a relatively junior intelligence analyst and,  through a series of improbable developments in later books,  rose steadily higher in government until finally reaching the Presidency, a position from which he presides over the action in The Bear and the Dragon.  Unfortunately,  Clancy now has the platform he needs to indulge all his worst ambitions as a novelist, since, in addition to an excessive focus on Ryan's virtuous private life, we get seemingly endless interior monologues,  and dialogues with other characters,  in which Clancy vents his own opinions about various political issues and about the evils of politics in general. The fact that I  probably share many of these views myself doesn't make it in the least bit more tolerable to see fiction misused in this way. I'm such a die-hard Clancy fan that I may be over-reacting to his flaws, and I still can't be too harsh in judging this novel, since the good parts are so fantastic. However,  I really wish that Clancy's editors would have the courage do to him and his fans a favor: stand up to him,  and save a lot of paper in the process.bably share many of these views myself doesn't make it in the least bit more tolerable to see fiction misused in this way. I'm such a die-hard Clancy fan that I may be over-reacting to his flaws, and I still can't be too harsh in judging this novel, since the good parts are so fantastic. However,  I really wish that Clancy's editors would have the courage do to him and his fans a favor: stand up to him,  and save a lot of paper in the process.	2001-11-19
US	52790555	R191NWP9PR9H8H	0802116868	186377687	Down the Highway: The Life of Bob Dylan	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Portrait of an Impossible Subject	I'm 53 years old with three kids, a job on Wall Street, and a life-long obsession with Bob Dylan that isn't going away. To this day, his best songs make the hairs on the back of my neck stand up. But who is this guy? And where does such extraordinary music come from? Perhaps recognizing that there are never really answers to questions like these, Howard Sounes largely sidesteps them in this excellent new biography, which doesn't pretend to reveal very much about Dylan's mind or the creative wellspring for his work. What the book does succeed at giving us is a is a thoroughly professional, well-researched and clearly written account of the man's life. Characteristically, Dylan refused to be interviewed, as did, apparently, his immediate family members. However, Mr. Sounes obtained a wealth of material from an array of other people, including childhood and adult friends, lovers, band members, business associates, observers, hangers-on,  and the many famous and non-so-famous musicians and singers who have known and worked with Dylan over the course of four decades. Sounes even took in perspectives from individuals referenced in Dylan's songs, like William Zantzinger - the real-life and still-living villain from The Lonesome Death of Hattie Carroll -  and Carla Rotolo, the  stigmatized &quot;parasite sister&quot; from Ballad in Plain D.  Because he's made a career of fleeing the constraints of identity, Dylan is a resistant subject for biography. Born into a nurturing middle-class Jewish family in small-town Minnesota, Dylan (then Bob Zimmerman), came of age and, following a short time at college,  took to the road, and to disguise his embarrassingly conventional roots,  invented outlandish myths about himself as a singing orphan hobo. Personally shy, but far less innocent than he appeared, he in fact had an overpowering ambition and confidence in his talent. Heading straight for New York City - the right place at the right time - he quickly &quot;made it&quot; as the angst-ridden folk and social-protest singer we know from his early recordings. He had no sooner achieved fame in this persona than he shed it like a snakeskin, reinventing himself as the seemingly nihilistic rock-and-roll poet who was to help establish the foundation for the emerging 60's counter-culture. However, this too was largely an act, and by the time the world was catching up with him, he had moved on again. At the very peak of the late 1960's cultural revolution in America, when rebellious post-adolescents were reaching out to him as a kind of Messiah, Dylan turned his back again and went conventional, retreating to a reclusive, short-haired, family-oriented lifestyle with his wife Sara and the beginnings of a family that would eventually include five remarkably well-cared-for children. Sounes suggests that this was the least contrived period of Dylan's life and the happiest. However, it wasn't to endure either, and his loving, private relationship with Sara finally broke down in bitterness and divorce. Just as the 60's lost steam and the hippies were cutting their hair and getting jobs,  Dylan - forever out of cycle - resumed his scruffy, intense, hip-hillbilly style and hit the road again. His conversion to a kind of fundamentalist Christianity in the late 1970's was the most startling of his metamorphoses, and one which befuddled fans will look to this book in vain for Sounes to shed much light on. The author doesn't disparage it, but doesn't appear to get it either,  any more than the fans did. Moreover, he seems to lose touch with his subject to some degree from this point on in the book. But then one gets the sense that Dylan was losing touch with himself too, putting out a series of lackluster albums and abandoning himself to endless and apparently aimless roadtouring and womanizing, not really renouncing his religion so much as back-burning it because it was hurting his career. The biography tries to end on a high note by discussing Time Out of Mind,Dylan's latest release at the time of publication.  Receiving critical aclaim, the album indeed displays revived sparks of his old genius, but anyone who has experienced the stark, death-haunted tone that pervades it can't be very cheered by this paradoxical show of vitality. One feels that Sounes is whistling beside the graveyard at the end of his book. I for one believe that the hype that has surrounded Dylan for most his career is justified, and that he will probably be remembered as one of the great artists of the late-twentieth century, whether his work cheers us up or not at this stage of life. While Sounes' book fails to reveal his elusive subject, it is probably the best biographical material about Bob Dylan that has appeared to date, and I highly recommend it.Dylan's latest release at the time of publication.  Receiving critical aclaim, the album indeed displays revived sparks of his old genius, but anyone who has experienced the stark, death-haunted tone that pervades it can't be very cheered by this paradoxical show of vitality. One feels that Sounes is whistling beside the graveyard at the end of his book. I for one believe that the hype that has surrounded Dylan for most his career is justified, and that he will probably be remembered as one of the great artists of the late-twentieth century, whether his work cheers us up or not at this stage of life. While Sounes' book fails to reveal his elusive subject, it is probably the best biographical material about Bob Dylan that has appeared to date, and I highly recommend it.	2001-10-30
US	52790555	R1POLMAGUUU51O	0802116868	186377687	Down the Highway: The Life of Bob Dylan	Books	4	62	63	N	N	Portrait of an Impossible Subject	I'm 53 years old with three kids, a job, and a life-long obsession with Bob Dylan that isn't going away. To this day, his best songs make the hairs on the back of my neck stand up. But who is this guy? And where does such extraordinary music come from? Perhaps recognizing that there are never really answers to questions like these, Howard Sounes largely sidesteps them in this excellent new biography, which doesn't pretend to reveal very much about Dylan's mind or the creative wellspring for his work. What the book does succeed at giving us is a thoroughly professional, well-researched and clearly written account of the man's life. Characteristically, Dylan refused to be interviewed, as did, apparently, his immediate family members. However, Mr. Sounes obtained a wealth of material from an array of other people, including childhood and adult friends, lovers, band members, business associates, observers, hangers-on,  and the many famous and non-so-famous musicians and singers who have known and worked with Dylan over the course of four decades. Sounes even took in perspectives from individuals referenced in Dylan's songs, like William Zantzinger - the real-life and still-living villain from The Lonesome Death of Hattie Carroll - and Carla Rotolo, the stigmatized &quot;parasite sister&quot; from Ballad in Plain D. Because he's made a career of fleeing the constraints of identity, Dylan is a resistant subject for biography. Born into a nurturing middle-class Jewish family in small-town Minnesota, Dylan (then Bob Zimmerman), came of age and, following a short time at college, took to the road, and to disguise his embarrassingly conventional roots, invented outlandish myths about himself as a singing orphan hobo. Personally shy, but far less innocent than he appeared, he in fact had an overpowering ambition and confidence in his talent. Heading straight for New York City - the right place at the right time - he quickly &quot;made it&quot; as the angst-ridden folk and social-protest singer we know from his early recordings. He had no sooner achieved fame in this persona than he shed it like a snakeskin, reinventing himself as the seemingly nihilistic rock-and-roll poet who was to help establish the foundation for the emerging 60's counter-culture. However, this too was largely an act, and by the time the world was catching up with him, he had moved on again. At the very peak of the late 1960's cultural revolution in America, when rebellious post-adolescents were reaching out to him as a kind of Messiah, Dylan turned his back again and went conventional, retreating to a reclusive, short-haired, family-oriented lifestyle with his wife Sara and the beginnings of a family that would eventually include five remarkably well-cared-for children. Sounes suggests that this was the least contrived period of Dylan's life and the happiest. However, it wasn't to endure either, and his loving, private relationship with Sara finally broke down in bitterness and divorce. Just as the 60's lost steam and the hippies were cutting their hair and getting jobs, Dylan - forever out of cycle - resumed his scruffy, intense, hip-hillbilly style and hit the road again. His conversion to a kind of fundamentalist Christianity in the late 1970's was the most startling of his metamorphoses, and one which befuddled fans will look to this book in vain for Sounes to shed much light on. The author doesn't disparage it, but doesn't appear to get it either, any more than the fans did. Moreover, he seems to lose touch with his subject to some degree from this point on in the book. But then one gets the sense that Dylan was losing touch with himself too, putting out a series of lackluster albums and abandoning himself to endless and apparently aimless roadtouring and womanizing, not really renouncing his religion so much as back-burning it because it was hurting his career. The biography tries to end on a high note by discussing Time Out of Mind, Dylan's latest release atthe time of publication.  Receiving critical aclaim, the album indeed displays revived sparks of his old genius, but anyone who has experienced the stark, death-haunted tone that pervades it can't be very cheered by this paradoxical show of vitality. One feels that Sounes is whistling beside the graveyard at the end of his book. I for one believe that the hype that has surrounded Dylan for most his career is justified, and that he will probably be remembered as one of the great artists of the late-twentieth century, whether his work cheers us up or not at this stage of life. While Sounes' book fails to reveal his elusive subject,  it is by far the best biographical material about Bob Dylan that has appeared to date, and I recommend it.	2001-10-24
US	52790555	R1VXRO685ZC2CS	0671000713	641705705	Detachment Bravo (Rogue Warrior Series)	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	Another Feast for Marcinko Fans	My wife takes it as evidence of something profoundly wrong with me that I've read every one of Dick Marcinko's books. But then ... she can hardly be expected to understand anything about the joys of Rogue Fiction.  Yes, sure, this is formula writing at it's most extreme: Marcinko has gotten rich writing the same book nine times. And, worse than that, if you think it's bad,  I suspect he delegates all the work to co-author John Weisman, confining his own contribution to probably not much more than  his name, Rogue persona, and the ugly mugshot they print on the flyleaves of these books. But Marcinko fans don't care about any of that, and in fact we admire him all the more for his self-interested Rogue cunning. Moreover, we like to think that he has more important things to do with his time - especially now - than sitting around like some kind of wonk in front of a keyboard typing out entertainment for us chair-bound tadpoles. Detachment Bravo has all the classic Marcinko plot motifs. It opens with a fast action scene in which Dick and his squad of oddly-named heroes take down a band of Tangos (terrorists for those unschooled in Rogue lingo), foiling their bloodthirsty plans. But, as always, there's no gratitude for Dickie.  By flaunting the rules and showing up the incompetence of pencil-pushing military bureaucrats, he's brings down their vengeance instead. He and his loyal boys are forced out on the lam to unravel the vast Tango conspiracy, of which the opening attack was only a small manifestation. Relying on the limited protection of one True Warrior who has somehow survived in the military high command,  and supported by his dwindling and embattled network of old-salt chiefs and other kindred sprits still scattered around in various places, Dick and his team go to work. They head off to various parts of the world and for several chapters engage in global high-tech sleuth work. They soon uncover evidence of a degenerate billionaire somewhere who is funding and masterminding the terrorists. Dick quickly tracks the guy down and, while not having enough evidence yet to take him out, nevertheless initiates an up-front-and-personal confrontation with him (i.e., slaps him around) just to let him know who's on the case. ...  There is, of course, at least one detailed and slow-motion account of hand-to-hand combat between Dick himself and one of the unfortunate tangos,  who meets his just end inevitably with something gruesome like a crushed skull. To anyone who has read even one of the books in this series, all this should all sound very familiar. Not that Detachment Bravo, like the others,  doesnt have it's own unique wrinkles. The degenerate billionaire, for example, here is actually two degenerate billionaires, a couple of twenty-something Irish brothers who have made it as (what else!) dot.com entrepreneurs. Who says Dickie can't stay current with the times? The novel also sports all the trademark  stylistic devices: half a dozen or so 'f' and 's' words per page, parenthetical lectures on the perils of underestimating Mr. Murphy, goofy asides to the pedantic APE (All-Powerful Editor),  sappy prayers of gratitude to the God of War for the privilege of leading brave warriors into battle, panegyrics to the healing powers of Bombay gin, and so forth. I sometimes worry about what would happen if Marcinko ever goes creative or sensitive on us, the way Clancy has tried to do in his more recent novels. However, I can happily report that Detachment Bravo gives strong evidence that we have nothing to fear on that score. I'm afraid I can't recommend this book to most wives or other sensitive souls, but Marcinko enthusiasts will love it. If he writes the book another nine times, I intend to buy every one.sterminding the terrorists. Dick quickly tracks the guy down and, while not having enough evidence yet to take him out, nevertheless initiates an up-front-and-personal confrontation with him (i.e., slaps him around) just to let him know who's on the case. ...  There is, of course, at least one detailed and slow-motion account of hand-to-hand combat between Dick himself and one of the unfortunate tangos,  who meets his just end inevitably with something gruesome like a crushed skull. To anyone who has read even one of the books in this series, all this should all sound very familiar. Not that Detachment Bravo, like the others,  doesnt have it's own unique wrinkles. The degenerate billionaire, for example, here is actually two degenerate billionaires, a couple of twenty-something Irish brothers who have made it as (what else!) dot.com entrepreneurs. Who says Dickie can't stay current with the times? The novel also sports all the trademark  stylistic devices: half a dozen or so 'f' and 's' words per page, parenthetical lectures on the perils of underestimating Mr. Murphy, goofy asides to the pedantic APE (All-Powerful Editor),  sappy prayers of gratitude to the God of War for the privilege of leading brave warriors into battle, panegyrics to the healing powers of Bombay gin, and so forth. I sometimes worry about what would happen if Marcinko ever goes creative or sensitive on us, the way Clancy has tried to do in his more recent novels. However, I can happily report that Detachment Bravo gives strong evidence that we have nothing to fear on that score. I'm afraid I can't recommend this book to most wives or other sensitive souls, but Marcinko enthusiasts will love it. If he writes the book another nine times, I intend to buy every one.	2001-09-22
US	52790555	RHF7ICEODC83T	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Story of a Yankee Patriot	Of all the men who were key to the founding of the American Republic, John Adams is probably the most neglected today in the popular imagination. Even in his own time he could see himself becoming overshadowed by his more glamorous peers - Washington, Jefferson, Franklin, Hamilton, even others - who flirted with their own legends and burnished the images that were to enter posterity. So one can easily imagine John Adams now two centuries later smiling down in satisfaction at finding his own dusty image at last redeemed by this superb biography. Biographers often fall in love with their subjects, and while Mr. McCullough  doesn't aggrandize Adams, every chapter of this book glows with a fond admiration for him. The birth of American democracy succeeded against all odds in large part because the clear-sighted pragmatism of its leaders, and Adams stands out among them.  His core talent was for getting to the nub of complex issues, then unleashing his obsessive determination to resolve them,  regardless of the political cost to himself or of the sensibilities of others. He therefore always seemed to have more enemies than friends, and even his friends rarely stood by him as unconditional allies. Yet he had a way of getting the job done, and his most virulent detractors never questioned his integrity or his dedication to his country. Adams was the political tactician who,  probably more than any other,  pushed the bitter floor debate in Philadelphia  towards issuance of the explosive Declaration of Independence. His greatest achievement was undoubtedly as president, in steering the young nation through the period of venomous partisanship between the Federalists and Republicans. Angering his allies still without winning over any of his enemies, he acted largely alone in initiating the diplomatic overtures that avoided the threatening war with France which, had it occurred, could very well have destroyed the young republic and brought America back under the domination of one or the other of the great European powers.  Mr. McCullough's biography nicely portrays the balance Adams achieved between his political and private lives. Indeed, the most endearing theme of this whole story is the passionate, life-long love affair Adams had with is wife Abigail, whose unconditional loyalty and political acumen made her the only confidant in whom Adams ever placed  his whole-hearted trust. In sharp contrast to many of his revolutionary colleagues - particularly and ironically Jefferson -  he was a man of relatively modest means and he cared little for the trappings of wealth. He was a Yankee farmer at heart, and his letters during 25-year retirement at the end of his life sparkle with an kind of mystical love for his land. His home was a beehive of family warmth and happy social activity. Yet his late years were punctuated as well with continual tragedy, as old friends and family members died around him, including his daughter Nappy and, eventually, his beloved Abigail. He endured the sad and self-destructive failures of his two younger sons, and lived to see John Quincy, his oldest son and his pride and joy, elected as the sixth president of the United States. After his own presidency, he largely avoided politics except through correspondence. Along with Abigail, the other enduring thread in his life was to Thomas Jefferson, a friend whom he loved dearly yet became a bitterly divided from during the height of their careers. After both had retired, they buried the hatchet and corresponded regularly, renewing their friendship without ever again laying eyes on one another. In one of the most extraordinary serendipities in history, they died on the same day, the 4th of July, exactly half a century after issuance of the revolutionary document which the two of them had coaxed into being.  Mr. McCullough's account of the waning years of Adam's life exudes a biblical intensity, describing the love and beauty the man experienced,  intertwined with wrenching tragedy and the physical pain and deterioration of old age. With his bluntness, his curmudgeonly Yankee cleverness, his simplicity, his warmth, his integrity and his love for life, Adams was a quintessentially American character. David McCullough has performed a great service by bringing it back to life for us in this fine biography, which I highly recommend.ing tragedy and the physical pain and deterioration of old age. With his bluntness, his curmudgeonly Yankee cleverness, his simplicity, his warmth, his integrity and his love for life, Adams was a quintessentially American character. David McCullough has performed a great service by bringing it back to life for us in this fine biography, which I highly recommend.	2001-09-10
US	52790555	R2HDQMM0PJU0GG	0736655433	273414871	The Age of Faith	Books	5	21	22	N	N	A Grand Story	Will Durant wrote like a force of  nature, and this book is a fine expression of his power. The body of his life's work seems to have been an effort, albeit incomplete,  to cover the entire history of mankind, and each individual  volume covers it's time frame by sweeping through every aspect of civilization:  politics, military affairs, economics, science, art, philosophy, religion, literature, architecture, and social customs. The Age of Faith opens with the death of the Roman Emperor Constantine in 337 and carries up through around the 14th century, the dawn of what has come to be known as the Renaissance. As implied by the title of this volume, it was the flowering of the three great Western religions - Christianity, Islam and Judaism - which dominates the story, and Durant devotes significant attention to all three, even though the birth of &quot;Christendom&quot; ultimately emerges as the defining event of the era. The charm of Durant's writing is the passionate love affair he seems to have had with humankind through all times and in all of it's manifestations. While he doesn't minimize the unspeakable brutalities that recur, he writes with an exuberant reverence for the spiritual and intellectual industry that he finds in every facet of human development. Like any competent historian, he also dispels historical stereotypes, and there is no real sense of a &quot;Dark Age&quot; at any point during this period despite Durant's occasional use of the term. However, what does become clear is that until late in the period,  it was Islam,  rather than Christianity, that achieved the most advanced civilization of  medieval times. For readers, such as myself, who are largely ignorant of Islam,  the lengthy chapters devoted to Muslim culture may be the most informative and interesting in the book. The Jews, who were scattered and lacked political or military power,  are portrayed as bringing a degree of cohesion to European and Eur-Asian development, maintaining a cultural identity of their own, while making remarkable contributions, intellectually and economically, to the dominant cultures within which they found themselves. Inevitably the structure of a book like this is a bit chaotic. There's little chronology to it, and the author jumps from one geographic region and one topic to another in no particular pattern. The book closes with an entire chapter devoted to Dante, in whose writing and life Durant sees both the quintessence of the mediaeval spirit a bridge to the Renaissance. The book's limitations are probably inherent in the author's very purpose, since by covering everything, he's forced by the constraints of space to gloss over much. Even so, The Age of Faith extends over a thousand pages. For readers, again such as myself, who are primarily interested in the political history of the period, the lavish attention paid to cultural topics - e.g., page-long excerpts from obscure Islamic poems, or breathless and detailed descriptions of a particular Byzantine mosaic or a gargoyle on the wall of a French cathedral - are distracting and at times annoying in light of the cursory focus given to weightier matters. Allowing for all this, however, this is a fine book from an extraordinarily gifted writer, and I highly recommend it.ral identity of their own, while making remarkable contributions, intellectually and economically, to the dominant cultures within which they found themselves. Inevitably the structure of a book like this is a bit chaotic. There's little chronology to it, and the author jumps from one geographic region and one topic to another in no particular pattern. The book closes with an entire chapter devoted to Dante, in whose writing and life Durant sees both the quintessence of the mediaeval spirit a bridge to the Renaissance. The book's limitations are probably inherent in the author's very purpose, since by covering everything, he's forced by the constraints of space to gloss over much. Even so, The Age of Faith extends over a thousand pages. For readers, again such as myself, who are primarily interested in the political history of the period, the lavish attention paid to cultural topics - e.g., page-long excerpts from obscure Islamic poems, or breathless and detailed descriptions of a particular Byzantine mosaic or a gargoyle on the wall of a French cathedral - are distracting and at times annoying in light of the cursory focus given to weightier matters. Allowing for all this, however, this is a fine book from an extraordinarily gifted writer, and I highly recommend it.	2001-08-19
US	52790555	RRUD60COJ0D5H	0060929588	485442755	Napoleon Bonaparte: A Life	Books	5	7	14	N	N	Fine Account of an Appalling Story	In his preface to this superb biography, Alan Schom tells us that, as an American, he felt better grounded for an objective biography of Napoleon Bonaparte than most European writers because, even after two centuries, most of them remain too emotionally involved with the subject. Be that as it may, objectivity does not mean neutrality, and Professor Schom's account gives the reader nothing much to admire about this powerful figure other than his inexhaustible energy and his destructive genius. We learn little about Napoleon's childhood, in part because there doesn't seem to have been much to it. We first encounter him at age nine already embarking from his native Corsica for a military school in France where he was being essentially abandoned by his father. Aloof, insecure, and friendless at the school, he displays little of his latent brilliance beyond a certain  precocious intellectual curiosity,  mainly the areas of mathematics and political history. One of the  keys to Napoleon's later success was his ability to seize opportunity for himself in the most unpromising of circumstances, and this flair reveals itself as soon as he graduates from the school and takes his first assignment as a junior artillery officer in the French army. Combining military successes with a gift for self-promotion, Napoleon quickly attracts notice. Crawling as it was with self-serving opportunists,  revolutionary France was to prove fertile ground for the young solder's talents as he advanced rapidly under the patronage of men who believed they could make use of him for their own ends. He soon achieved fame as a military hero, and with that came potential political power, which he was quick to exploit. Napoleon always lacked the patience for strategic planning and was forever getting himself into hopeless binds that only his extraordinary tactical instincts and his brashness were able to rescue him from. Oafish blunders and stunning masterstrokes alike permeated his career, and he never seemed to learn from his mistakes so much as bluster his way through them as though they had never happened.  Grasping the decrepitude of the revolutionary government, he swept it aside, along with his erstwhile patrons, in a poorly planned but successful coup d'etat that was the starting point for 15 years of  horrendous conquest and intrigue at the peak of which he ruled most of Europe. As with most of the legendary conquerors in history, Napoleon's fatal weakness was the insatiable nature of his ambition, and the eventual over-extension of his power was inevitable.  It finally happened in the brutal expanses of Russia, after which the hapless European powers were able to rouse themselves to encircle and crush him. Even then, he escapes his exile to rally another army and take Paris one last time, but Waterloo found him shortly thereafter.  This biography provides only glimpses of Napoleon's private life. His life-long devotion to he sluttish yet somehow innocent Josephine seems to have been sincere, although not enough so to save her from divorce when she failed to produce an heir for him. His relationship with his motley group of siblings and in-laws could have been  the stuff of high comic opera. Sharing all his vanity and lust for power, but none of his talent, they generally bungle their roles as he installs them on the thrones of Europe in his doomed effort to create a new dynastic power structure for the continent. His final exile on St. Helena is pathetic. He rules over a small community of chosen companions with a churlish pomposity. In the end, he is slowly poisoned to death by a scheming sycophant whom he welcomes into his circle and names as the chief beneficiary his will. Napoleon's judgment, always spotty, had failed him for the last time, and the reader feels more relief than pity at the end.  Professor Schom tells this amazing life story with all the energy it deserves, and I highly recommend his book.seemed to learn from his mistakes so much as bluster his way through them as though they had never happened.  Grasping the decrepitude of the revolutionary government, he swept it aside, along with his erstwhile patrons, in a poorly planned but successful coup d'etat that was the starting point for 15 years of  horrendous conquest and intrigue at the peak of which he ruled most of Europe. As with most of the legendary conquerors in history, Napoleon's fatal weakness was the insatiable nature of his ambition, and the eventual over-extension of his power was inevitable.  It finally happened in the brutal expanses of Russia, after which the hapless European powers were able to rouse themselves to encircle and crush him. Even then, he escapes his exile to rally another army and take Paris one last time, but Waterloo found him shortly thereafter.  This biography provides only glimpses of Napoleon's private life. His life-long devotion to he sluttish yet somehow innocent Josephine seems to have been sincere, although not enough so to save her from divorce when she failed to produce an heir for him. His relationship with his motley group of siblings and in-laws could have been  the stuff of high comic opera. Sharing all his vanity and lust for power, but none of his talent, they generally bungle their roles as he installs them on the thrones of Europe in his doomed effort to create a new dynastic power structure for the continent. His final exile on St. Helena is pathetic. He rules over a small community of chosen companions with a churlish pomposity. In the end, he is slowly poisoned to death by a scheming sycophant whom he welcomes into his circle and names as the chief beneficiary his will. Napoleon's judgment, always spotty, had failed him for the last time, and the reader feels more relief than pity at the end.  Professor Schom tells this amazing life story with all the energy it deserves, and I highly recommend his book.	2001-06-17
US	52790555	R2FL0SHMACUZ3R	0375500812	566914518	Martha Peake: A Novel of the Revolution	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A Quirky but Engrossing Novel	Patrick McGrath is a master stylist, and it is his skill with language that allows him to pull off successfully in Martha Peake what could have been a very bad novel. The first potential problem is indeed the style itself, which verges on self-parody. To illustrate, the opening scene has the narrator - whom we never learn much about - crossing a dank English moor alone at night to visit a ghostly mansion, where he meets his old and wizened uncle who, over a sputtering candle,  starts telling a mysterious tale about the book's heroine, Martha Peake, and her tormented father, Harry. You can see the unsatisfactory level to which this might descend, and in fact the portion of the book that unfolds in England - more than half of it - is written in this kind of exaggerated super-Gothic style. But the technique works, at least  if you have a tolerance for that sort of thing, because Mr. McGrath is so very good at it. The other potential problem - and I myself found this more troublesome - is the quirky and labored symbolism that pervades the novel. It is essentially about the American Revolution, and the symbolic contrast between creepy, death-ridden England and the vitality of revolutionary America underlies the entire story. Harry Peake is a deformed hunchback, and the author devotes so much attention to Harry's hump that it's clearly meant to represent something more than itself. Yet I have to confess to never quite getting it. Moreover, the plot culminates in a weird surprise ending that twists the book's meaning and, for me anyway, aggravated the sense of confusion about its thematic content. I can't recommend Martha Peake wholeheartedly - some readers will hate it - but I found it an engrossing work despite it's oddness and its flaws.	2001-05-04
US	52790555	R1J7QADUILXEU9	0375405445	406271874	Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation	Books	5	117	124	N	N	A Fine and Highly Focussed Account	This book is a gem, and probably the most focussed piece of historical writing I've ever read. Professor Ellis tells us in his two-page introduction that his objective was to write a &quot;modest-sized account of a massive historical subject&quot;, implicitly ragging on his professional colleagues who seem inclined more often towards just the opposite. In just 248 pages he takes on the thirty or so years following ratification of the U.S. Constitution, portraying this period as the most politically treacherous in our nation's history.  He focuses primarily on the roles of six protagonists: Jefferson, John Adams, Madison, Washington, Hamilton, and Franklin. Aaron Burr appears too, but as a tragic foil to Hamilton more than as a significant player in his own right. Professor Ellis's technique, odd but effective, is to build six short chapters around various interactions among these key figures, arranging them artfully like a series of inter-connected short stories. Each chapter elucidates a key dimension in the political dynamics of the period, and the emotional impact of the book by the end is like that of a powerful piece of fiction, even though the author's adherence to the factual record is scrupulous. What emerges is a picture of the revolutionary nation facing the kind of crisis that undermines most revolutions as personal ambitions and conflicting agendas give rise to new tyranny or ongoing civil war. At one level, these were a group of jealous and bickering men with diverging views on the direction of the republican government they were laboring to craft. Yet in the end it is these very contradictions which allowed the improbable project to suceed, bringing in the diverse political threads necessary to bind the new nation. For divided as these politicians were, everyone of them was haunted by the fear that the cause to which he'd devoted his life was in imminent danger of failing. The great European powers lurked like vultures waiting to re-assert themselves over the divided States, and the &quot;founding brothers&quot;  seemed to recognize that their collective talents provided the only effective bulwark against this treat. Hindsight, of course, tells us much more than they knew, and their triumph was to be sealed only following an unimaginable bloodbath forty years after the last of them died. That the union they built was strong enough to survive such a trauma was the ultimate testimony to their skill and perseverance. Professor Ellis has written an excellent and very accessible  account of this complex story, and I highly recommend it.ver the divided States, and the &quot;founding brothers&quot;  seemed to recognize that their collective talents provided the only effective bulwark against this treat. Hindsight, of course, tells us much more than they knew, and their triumph was to be sealed only following an unimaginable bloodbath forty years after the last of them died. That the union they built was strong enough to survive such a trauma was the ultimate testimony to their skill and perseverance. Professor Ellis has written an excellent and very accessible  account of this complex story, and I highly recommend it.	2001-03-29
US	52790555	R6I1EVLXUTEST	0062502824	119045114	A Mythic Life: Learning to Live our Greater Story	Books	4	84	89	N	Y	A Mythic Life Is A Wild Ride	Readers of this book will have sharply diverging reactions to it, and I myself am of two minds. At her worst, Jean Houston can come across like a precocious and hyperactive college kid:  flip, full of herself,  flaunting exuberance, self-promoting, greedy for catharsis, disorderly ideas sprouting everywhere like psychedelic mushrooms. On the other hand, at her best, she's brilliant, scholarly, profoundly creative,  wise, kind, and funny.  On the balance, happily, I found the latter set of characteristics predominant here, although the less attractive side of her nature will be readily apparent to anyone unsympathetic to her style and her philosophy. This is an autobiography of sorts, although one in a style that only Jean Houston could conceive: utterly non-linear. What she actually gives us is series of  anecdotes from all stages of her life, interspersed  chaotically with a fireworks display of philosophical musing, human potential pep talks, New Age proselytizing, scientific speculation, and lectures on her original brand of mystical anthropology. Interestingly, she's the daughter of neither a scholar nor a mystic, but of an itinerant Hollywood gag writer, whom she loved dearly and who ran the family like an overbearing-but-lovable gypsy king. Numerous accounts of his lautish stunts pepper his daughter's book and bring comic relief. He was a direct descendent of Sam Houston, the flamboyant Texan general and politician, laying down a genetic strain  that seems not at all improbable once you begin getting a sense of what Jean Houston is about.  Of  her retiring Sicilian-American mother, we learn very little. Dr. Houston's central animating idea,  like that of her teacher and colleague Joseph Campbell, is that certain myths are universal among all peoples and all times, including our own, and they are the main drivers of psychological and spiritual essence of human existence.  Exploring ourselves in light of these myths is key to fulfilling life - hence the book's title. Jean  Houston takes this idea much further than Campbell did, and makes it the centerpiece of the teaching, lecturing, and mystical psychotherapy which has become both her life's calling and her business. This is compelling material and she presents it with eloquence and passion, despite the interference which her manic style at times brings to the narrative.  I recommend &quot;A Mythic Life&quot;, although it's not for everyone, and readers should be prepared for what they're getting.itle. Jean  Houston takes this idea much further than Campbell did, and makes it the centerpiece of the teaching, lecturing, and mystical psychotherapy which has become both her life's calling and her business. This is compelling material and she presents it with eloquence and passion, despite the interference which her manic style at times brings to the narrative.  I recommend &quot;A Mythic Life&quot;, although it's not for everyone, and readers should be prepared for what they're getting.	2001-03-13
US	52790555	RSX31P6MOE0T9	0375700455	841119426	The First World War	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Powerful Account of an Appalling Story	Like most military histories, this account of the First World War contains too few maps and far too many names for anyone not already well-versed in the story to follow it with a great deal of precision. Adding to the book's difficulty is Professor Keegan's proclivity for involved sentence structure and ambiguous syntax. Nonetheless, he writes from an encyclopedic knowledge and a passion for his subject that burns through much of this and creates a powerful narrative. In the modern historical memory, the so-called &quot;Great War&quot; has acquired comic-opera overtones. But what might have started as comic-opera soon mutated, like a bad dream, into something more akin to the disgustingly violent surrealism and absurdism that the aftermath of the war in fact give rise to later in the literary and artistic culture of Europe. Prior to 1914, the monarchs and diplomats saw their continent as a grand chessboard, but soon after the opening sallies, they found themselves trapped in a most ungentlemanly game where nobody knew the rules. The technology for killing had reached state-of-the art effectiveness, while at the same time it was to prove impotent against the overwhelming defensive tactics of trench warfare. The result was a nightmarish stalemate in which every nation  poured one class of young men after another into the meat grinder, which churned lustily away without moving the battle lines appreciably. By 1917, all the armies and several of the governments had reached exhaustion and were beginning to disintegrate. Enter the Americans, who while not having decisive military prowess at the time, did bring enough vitality and resources to bear finally to tip the balance. Having read this gloomy account, it's easy to see why WWI resolved nothing and why it was all to start over again in even an more virulent form twenty years later. What a century! With a fine eye for tactical detail,  Professor Keegan writes more like a military practitioner than an academic historian. While I found his book difficult and grim, it's enlightening,  and I recommend it.. While I found his book difficult and grim, it's enlightening,  and I recommend it.	2001-03-02
US	52790555	R2WFYY66A7OVI0	0380710811	272869729	The First Man in Rome	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Historical Fiction At Its Best	Ancient history buffs have a gift from the gods in the fiction of Colleen McCullough. Drawing on the encyclopedic knowledge of a scholar and the art of a master storyteller, Ms. McCullough constructs sweeping narratives that bring ancient Rome alive. The First Man in Rome is the first in her series of historical novels chronicling the waning years of the Republic. The central character here is Marius, the powerful general and political leader whose skill and ruthless charisma foreshadowed the rise of Julius Caesar, his own nephew-by-marriage. While Caesar was endowed with the patrician blood Marius lacked, both men were driven by a cold contempt for the fecklessness of the Roman ruling class and the antiquated customs of the Republican government which threatened to derail Rome's rise to power. Collaborating with his brilliant but unscrupulous young protegee, Sulla, Marius executes a series of flawless military campaigns that establish the power base that enables him to achieve political mastery over Rome. With a eye on Rome's future, Marius moves to distribute land and a degree of power to the lower classes, who he sees as providing the social infrastructure necessary for imperial expansion. He sweeps aside the opposition form jealous aristocrats whom he considers too narrow-minded and foolish to recognize what's in their own self-interest. His autocratic style, emulated later by Sulla and Caesar, furthers the erosion of doomed Republican system which was finally to give way 70 years later with the rise of Augustus and the birth of the Imperial government. The vividness of Ms. McCullough's writing is such that it's easy to lose sight of the fact that this is historical fiction we're reading, not history. While most of her characters are historical figures and while she's faithful to historical facts as they've come down to us, the reality is that this provides nothing much  more than the bare bones of a plot, and most of  this novel is sheer invention. Nonetheless, Ms. McCullough's detailed knowledge of the customs, social mores, politics, military practice and administrative apparatus of ancient Rome allows her to weave a wondrous mosaic that is brings us probably about as close as it's possible to come 21 centuries later to what it must have felt like to live there. The book requires some concentration because of the profusion of Roman names - many of which sound alike - and terminology, a problem which the author tries to alleviate by providing a detailed glossary at the end. This novel is well worth the effort, however, and I highly recommend it.Ms. McCullough's detailed knowledge of the customs, social mores, politics, military practice and administrative apparatus of ancient Rome allows her to weave a wondrous mosaic that is brings us probably about as close as it's possible to come 21 centuries later to what it must have felt like to live there. The book requires some concentration because of the profusion of Roman names - many of which sound alike - and terminology, a problem which the author tries to alleviate by providing a detailed glossary at the end. This novel is well worth the effort, however, and I highly recommend it.	2001-02-10
US	52790555	R21WUOYB98B5QJ	0517347725	265326710	Gray Fox: Robert E. Lee and the Civil War	Books	4	36	37	N	Y	An Extraordinary Story	While limited in scope, this is a very good book about an extraordinary figure in American history. Beginning only a few days before Fort Sumter and concluding with Appomattox, Mr. Davis' narrative is not designed as a biography of Robert E. Lee, and only limited dimensions of his character and his life are revealed in it.  What the book does achieve is to paint a vivid picture of Lee's role in the Civil War and, through this vehicle, to reveal something essential about this bloodiest of  American tragedies, which is a story of many sad paradoxes. A genuinely kindly and self-effacing man, Lee the military commander was nonetheless a wily aggressor who, along with his Union counterparts, invented a new kind of warfare which at the time had no precedent anywhere in the world for the degree of mass slaughter it unleashed. Lee adamantly opposed slavery on moral grounds and was appalled at the decision of the southern states to succeed from the American nation, the service of which he had devoted his professional life to.  Despite these misgivings, he took up the Southern cause for the purpose of defending his native Virginia. Having reluctantly committed himself, he took up command of the Confederate army with such determination and skill  that, prior to Gettysburg, he was arguably within range of accomplishing the Southern victory that he himself always believed to be unlikely. One of the strengths of this book is that the author seeks neither to romanticize nor debunk Lee. He lets primary sources speak for themselves through much of the narrative, and the portrait of Lee that emerges is one largely consistent with the popular image of the man as one of history's great tragic heroes. This books biggest weakness, at least for me, was it's failure to flesh out the strategic context for Lee's actions during the war. The narrative follows him through the major engagements in which he participated, but gives minimal perspective on military or political events occurring outside of Lee's camp. A comprehensive history of the war is beyond the scope of this short study, but the marvelous story it tells falls somewhat short due to the lack of background information.  Still, the book is very well worth reading, and I recommend it.ide of Lee's camp. A comprehensive history of the war is beyond the scope of this short study, but the marvelous story it tells falls somewhat short due to the lack of background information.  Still, the book is very well worth reading, and I recommend it.	2000-12-31
US	52790555	R3KL1KCI3CW75W	0385493282	556829614	The First American: The Life and Times of Benjamin Franklin	Books	5	26	27	N	Y	Superb Biography	It's been said that no event in political history brought together a company of more remarkable men than the founding of the American republic. And by lauding him as &quot;The First American&quot; in this fine biography, Professor Brands builds a case that there is no more outstanding representative of this charmed circle than the redoubtable Ben Franklin. Derided by some modern sophisticates for his cornball moralism,  Franklin was in fact one of  the most forward-thinking intellectuals of his era, and his contributions in the areas of science, politics, philosophy, and ethics have resonance still in the 21st century. Living a life that was the embodiment of 18th century rationalism, Franklin's love of reason imbued him with an indomitable optimism that charmed everyone who came into his orbit. Escaping the intellectual suffocation of Cotton Matther's Boston, where Franklin was born, he fled to Philadelphia as a young man and quickly achieved success in the printing business. He loved the practical things in life and, laboring happily to improve them, he established the first library in Philadelphia, the first fire brigade, the first college, etc. and - portentously - the first citizen's militia armed, at this time, in alliance with Britain against the French and their Indian allies who he saw as threatening the homes of himself and his neighbors. While only dabbling in scientific theory as one of his many sidelights, he produced breakthroughs that soon established this self-educated provincial as luminary within the leading scientific circles in Europe. He inevitably gravitated into local and provincial politics, and moved to England represent the Pennsylvania assembly in it's entreaties to the British government. Considering himself an impeccably loyal British subject, his analytic powers nonetheless soon led him the conclusion, ahead of many others, that complete independence for the American colonies was necessary and inevitable. This most exuberant of Anglophiles went on to become the most implacable of Britain's foe's. His personal charm and knowledge of European politics propelled him naturally into diplomacy, and he almost single-handedly engineered the critical alliance with France that that eventually won the war for the young nation. In the bitter factionalism that descended on the colonies after victory, the universal respect he enjoyed among the contending forces allowed him to facilitate the compromises that eventually brought about the improbable union. Anyone who reads American history finds there's some in it that doesn't square with our ideals as a nation. On the other hand, there are many stories that epitomize those ideals, and Franklin's life is one of these. This book is probably a little longer than it had to be, but even the unnecessary detail makes for enjoyable reading. Professor Brands has produced an excellent book, and I highly recommend it.les went on to become the most implacable of Britain's foe's. His personal charm and knowledge of European politics propelled him naturally into diplomacy, and he almost single-handedly engineered the critical alliance with France that that eventually won the war for the young nation. In the bitter factionalism that descended on the colonies after victory, the universal respect he enjoyed among the contending forces allowed him to facilitate the compromises that eventually brought about the improbable union. Anyone who reads American history finds there's some in it that doesn't square with our ideals as a nation. On the other hand, there are many stories that epitomize those ideals, and Franklin's life is one of these. This book is probably a little longer than it had to be, but even the unnecessary detail makes for enjoyable reading. Professor Brands has produced an excellent book, and I highly recommend it.	2000-12-16
US	52790555	R2RDF2OP1KZDLO	0151005133	763449972	Spytime: The Undoing of James Jesus Angleton	Books	5	16	17	N	N	An intriguing book	William Buckley has in his later years developed a surprising talent for fiction, and  he couldn't have picked a more intriguing subject to focus it on with this book than James Angleton. How does one portray a man like Angleton?  The spy novel genre, as epitomized by writers like John Le Carre, tends towards heavily convoluted plots, language, and characterizations in the effort to force the literary vehicle itself into a representation of the dark and twisted ethos of espionage. And one might have expected Angleton, as the quintessential cold-war spymaster, to have inspired just such a  brooding study. However, Buckley will have none of that with his book, and taking the opposite tack,  he crafts his novel with the same crisp lucidity that animates his political commentary.  Employing spare sentence structure, sprightly characterization and  fast-paced narrative, he draws a portrait of Angleton that has nothing sinister or even particularly mysterious about it. The legendary CIA counterintelligence chief emerges from this as entirely human - flawed and quirky, but brilliant, loyal to friends and motivated by a sincere patriotism. Underlying the story, however, is a kind of sad commentary by Buckley on the tragic nature of espionage as a profession.  Much like a good cop corrupted by the violence of a high-crime neighborhood,  Angleton by the end of his career seems helpless against the pressures driving him into a paranoid pathology.  Frustrated by his failures to detect genuine traitors in his own ranks, Angleton becomes suspicious of everyone and begins voicing reckless accusations. This being historical fiction, of course, we all know how the story ends. When the CIA comes under hostile scrutiny during the post-Watergate period, Angleton has few friends left able or willing to defend him from his detractors, and he is sacked from the Agency he had devoted his life to. In what must have been the bitterest of ironies for him, attacks on his own loyalty are among the charges that doom him. Buckley touches on all this only very lightly at the end of this short work,  but the simple brushstrokes paint a poignant picture. Spytime is a very good book  and I recommend it.the charges that doom him. Buckley touches on all this only very lightly at the end of this short work,  but the simple brushstrokes paint a poignant picture. Spytime is a very good book  and I recommend it.	2000-11-07
US	52790555	R3SPGBKXFGZ9U3	0824517296	965196898	Unexpected Miracles: The Gift of Synchronicity and How to Open it	Books	3	38	45	N	Y	Nothing very unexpected or miraculous here	Maybe I've read too many books covering this same territory, but this one doesn't seem to me to have very much new to offer. There's a great deal of wisdom here, but all of it's cribbed directly from well-known sources  and, while well enough written,  the work is compiled without much original contribution by Dr. Richo.  The underlying ideas are a blend of classic Eastern philosophy, Jungian psychology, Christian and Buddhist ethics,  and Joseph Campbell's mystical  anthropology, all packaged into a kind of pop New Age format complete with &quot;practice&quot; exercises and an advertisement on the last page for Dr. Richo's tapes and workshops. None of this is to say that the book isn't thought-provoking,  but only to suggest that readers who are familiar with the source material may find Unexpected Miracles derivative and a little dull. The most useful purpose the book could serve perhaps is to stimulate people who haven't read the originals to experience the rich rewards of doing so.	2000-11-07
US	52790555	R1YSV6FWFCNAEG	0394608127	111847135	Claudius the God and His Wife Messalina	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A cynical and sad tale, beautifully written	This novel, like its antecedent I, Claudius, will mesmerize those who love classical history, although casual readers may find it tedious. The two works together form a fictional autobiography of the Roman emperor Claudius, who - at least in this literary incarnation -  is both an astute observer of first century Roman political society and an extraordinary character in his own right.  Born into the Roman imperial family but repelled by the violence and treachery surrounding it,  Claudius retreats from power for much of his adult life. He buries himself in obscure academic pursuits and hides, for what he believes to be his own safety, behind array of weird physical disabilities. When his nephew, the mad emperor Caligula,  meets his just reward, the middle-aged Claudius is literally dragged against his will onto the Imperial throne.  I, Claudius ends with this bizarre scene and Claudius the God takes up from there with the improbable emperor's own account of his reign up to point of his death.  Much to everyone's surprise, Claudius emerges into the public eye as an energetic, able and just ruler. And while the great pride he takes in his enterprise is evident, both the style of his rule and the tone of his narrative is characterized by a wry and self-deprecating humor. Much of the book consists of a detailed recounting of the administrative, judicial and military minutia in which Claudius immersed himself.  However, there is a deeper theme at work too, which is the inevitability that innocence in a corrupt world will be betrayed. Claudius's closest friend for much of his life is Herod Agrippa, the grandson of the biblical Herod the Great. Herod Agrippa is a charming rogue and schemer who, while genuinely fond of Claudius, teases him mercilessly for being a fool and warns him, as it turns out in all seriousness, to &quot;trust no one&quot;. The irony in the admonition is apparent when Herod himself betrays Claudius, plotting militarily against him and almost succeeding.  This is only a side story, however. The thematic climax of the book occurs when it comes to light that Claudius's beautiful wife Messalina, whom he adores with the intense innocence of a teenager in love, has been using him all along for the fool, taking lovers and mocking Claudius behind his back. He finally discovers the truth when she is found  to be conspiring with one of these paramours to seize the throne. She is executed for her treachery, but Claudius's spirit dies with her. He re-marries, but to a woman he cares nothing about  and who, with his knowledge and acquiescence - for his death has been foretold by augury -  begins amassing power on her own and conspiring to make way for her own son by a previous marriage. This son is later to enter history as the decadent fiddler Nero.  The book closes with actual historical accounts by Tacitus and Dio Cassius of the real-life emperor's death at the hands of  his ambitious wife, who poisons him. The last pages give us the final degradation, a bitterly satirical account Seneca, depicting Claudius - in death, once again the fool - trying to enter Olympus as the deified emperor but being banished mockingly to Hades by the other gods.  The book is cynical and deeply sad. It's beautifully written and I recommend it, although it won't be to everyone's taste.g.  This is only a side story, however. The thematic climax of the book occurs when it comes to light that Claudius's beautiful wife Messalina, whom he adores with the intense innocence of a teenager in love, has been using him all along for the fool, taking lovers and mocking Claudius behind his back. He finally discovers the truth when she is found  to be conspiring with one of these paramours to seize the throne. She is executed for her treachery, but Claudius's spirit dies with her. He re-marries, but to a woman he cares nothing about  and who, with his knowledge and acquiescence - for his death has been foretold by augury -  begins amassing power on her own and conspiring to make way for her own son by a previous marriage. This son is later to enter history as the decadent fiddler Nero.  The book closes with actual historical accounts by Tacitus and Dio Cassius of the real-life emperor's death at the hands of  his ambitious wife, who poisons him. The last pages give us the final degradation, a bitterly satirical account Seneca, depicting Claudius - in death, once again the fool - trying to enter Olympus as the deified emperor but being banished mockingly to Hades by the other gods.  The book is cynical and deeply sad. It's beautifully written and I recommend it, although it won't be to everyone's taste.	2000-10-28
US	52790555	RM4G5MF6XZC1S	0679438084	263184134	Titan: The Life of John D. Rockefeller, Sr.	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Finest business biography I've ever read	While John Rockefeller is one of the most famous and influential men in American history, he has nonetheless come down to Americans in caricature: steely-faced, secretive, greedy, crafty,  and ruthless. He was certainly all these,  but Ron Chernow has in this book laid bare for us the rest of the story, which is complex, exhilarating, quirky, and rich in paradox.  A business genius,  Rockefeller was a pivotal figure in developing the modern corporation as the organizational vehicle for controlling massive capital-intensive operations. Recognizing early on that an empire of the scale he envisioned could not be run effectively in the autocratic style still common in his day, he rarely made important decisions without seeking debate and achieving a common mind among his key associates, foreshadowing the &quot;consensus-management&quot; style typical of large-scale enterprise today. His most flagrant sin, and the one that fueled the political backlash against Standard Oil, was the ruthlessness with which he crushed competitors. However, even here he played by the cold-blooded rules as he saw them and was rarely vindictive. When advantageous to himself, as it often was,  he extended the olive branch to vanquished rivals, buying out their companies and drawing them into his organization, making at least some of them richer than they could have been on their own. This was not generosity but the inexorable mechanism whereby he expanded Standard Oil into a monopoly. Nevertheless,  generosity - paradoxical as it seems - was in fact central to Rockefeller's life. Chernow traces Rockefeller's philanthropy back to his deepest roots as the dutiful son of an intensely religious Baptist mother. We seem him tithing to his church and devoting his time and attention to charity and &quot;good works&quot; already at the start of his career when he was a salaried bookkeeper struggling to put food on his family's table. He made his fortune relatively early in what proved to be a very long life, and he gradually backed away from active management of his company, focusing his colossal energies for most of his mature years on his philanthropic enterprises. There is a wealth of personal material in this book that makes Rockefeller very human, albeit eccentric.  His passion as an old man for golf,  for example,  was almost comical. He despised high-society and ostentation, and socialized mostly with business cronies, family members and people from the smallish Baptist church he was devoted to his entire life. One of the more fascinating threads concerns his ne'er-do-well father, an itinerant huckster and small-time swindler who largely abandoned his family to near-poverty, but had a habit of re-appearing at odd times througout his son's life. Chernow leads us to speculate that the fanatical discipline and devotion to duty which drove Rockefeller might have been a reaction formation against his irresponsible paterfamilias. Who knows? Like all biographies, even the best ones, this book in the end fails to &quot;explain&quot; it's subject,  and if anything Rockefeller emerges from it more enigmatic than ever. But the book brings him alive and left me with the desire to know more about him, always the mark of a top-notch biography. That's what this one is and I highly recommend it.life, and he gradually backed away from active management of his company, focusing his colossal energies for most of his mature years on his philanthropic enterprises. There is a wealth of personal material in this book that makes Rockefeller very human, albeit eccentric.  His passion as an old man for golf,  for example,  was almost comical. He despised high-society and ostentation, and socialized mostly with business cronies, family members and people from the smallish Baptist church he was devoted to his entire life. One of the more fascinating threads concerns his ne'er-do-well father, an itinerant huckster and small-time swindler who largely abandoned his family to near-poverty, but had a habit of re-appearing at odd times througout his son's life. Chernow leads us to speculate that the fanatical discipline and devotion to duty which drove Rockefeller might have been a reaction formation against his irresponsible paterfamilias. Who knows? Like all biographies, even the best ones, this book in the end fails to &quot;explain&quot; it's subject,  and if anything Rockefeller emerges from it more enigmatic than ever. But the book brings him alive and left me with the desire to know more about him, always the mark of a top-notch biography. That's what this one is and I highly recommend it.	2000-10-11
US	52790555	R29HCUTKKR7XHD	0812932978	913243416	In Sam We Trust: The Untold Story of Sam Walton and Wal-Mart, the World's Most Powerful Retailer	Books	4	24	24	N	N	Good Business History, Good Muckraking - bad mix of the two	Anyone with an interest in business history has to be fascinated by the story of Wal-Mart. Starting from a single store in an obscure Southern town, the company expanded relentlessly over the course of thirty-five years to become the most powerful retailer in the world. At the center of this story stands the enigmatic figure of Sam Walton, a folksy and sincerely genial man who ran the single store back in the mid -1950's and still controlled the burgeoning corporate empire at the time of his death in 1992, having by then amassed the largest personal fortune in America.  Bob Ortega has done a workman-like job in telling the story of both the company and its founder. However, Ortega is an investigative journalist by trade, not a biographer or business historian. His interest in Wal-Mart began with a series of muckraking reports he did on the company during the 1990's, and he devotes the last half of &quot;In Sam We Trust&quot; to rambling through much of this material, focusing on Wal-Mart's longstanding compliance with abusive and illegal labor practices on the part of its suppliers, and on it ruthless real-estate practices that have for the last three decades steam-rollered over what remains of the cultural ethos of small-town America. Ortega is a good writer and a conscientious journalist,  laboring hard to stick to facts and avoid sensationalism. And given his obvious distaste for what Wal-Mart has become, it speaks well of his literary integrity that the historical and biographical portions of this book are objectively told. Sam Walton himself is portrayed with his all positive personal qualities intact - he's rather likeable - and his flaws, while apparent, aren't blown out of proportion either. The fascination with him, which is well-presented, lies in the paradox of such an amiable fellow possessing  a ruthless competitive drive rivaling that of the any of the legendary 19th century Robber Barons. The problem with Ortega's book is that the biographical and historical half doesn't fit together very cohesively with the muckraking half, even though both portions are well-enough done in their own terms. Anyone wanting business history here is going to get a little bored with the repetitive accounts of third-world sweatshops and anti-Wal-Mart community action drives. I recommend the book, but many readers should be prepared skim over portions of it.torical half doesn't fit together very cohesively with the muckraking half, even though both portions are well-enough done in their own terms. Anyone wanting business history here is going to get a little bored with the repetitive accounts of third-world sweatshops and anti-Wal-Mart community action drives. I recommend the book, but many readers should be prepared skim over portions of it.	2000-10-04
US	52790555	R3KW5QYVH7M0EZ	0393048136	217254911	The New New Thing : A Silicon Valley Story	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Great Depiction of New-Economy Magic	Michael Lewis is a fine writer and this is a superb book. In a style that  I find reminiscent of Tom Wolfe, Lewis brings the contemporary Silicone  Valley ethos alive much the way he did 80's Wall Street in Liar's Poker.  Wolfe did the same for the 1960's counterculture in Electric Kool-Aid Acid  Test and the take-it-to-the-edge world of military test-pilots and the  pioneer astronauts in The Right Stuff. Both writers utilize exuberant  portraits of their protagonists as literary mechanisms for telling bigger  stories. In the New New Thing, the phenomenon  that Lewis leads us into is  the explosive convergence between radical technology and Wall Street that  has in recent years brought about the fastest creation of paper wealth that  history has ever seen. The individual that he zeroes in on to reveal the  magic of this story is Jim Clark, who is probably best-known as the creator  of Netscape. As a poor-boy engineer who rocketed overnight onto the Forbes  400 list of the world's wealthiest people, Clark is, to start with,  a good  representative of the class of new age techno-entrepreneurs. But as Lewis's  vehicle to the bigger story, Clark is magnified into the very embodiment of  the spirit animating today's &quot;new economy&quot;. This entertaining,  often hilarious,  268 pages makes it much clearer what's happening there  than volumes of  ponderous analysis by conventional commentators.  If you  can somehow imagine Abbie Hoffman as a brilliant and over-achieving  engineer, you'll have some sense of the picture of Clark that emerges from  this book. A born revolutionary with a prankster's attitude towards the  established order,  Clark is nonetheless deadly serious about technology  and it's practical applications. Add to this a ruthless self-confidence and  a pied-piper-like hold over investors and a coterie of talented, workaholic  programmers,  and it's possible to see how - just as one small example of  new-economy magic - Clark was able to enrich his loyal followers and add  half billion or so to his own net worth in a few days via a public offering  of one of his companies that had neither earnings, a product,  nor even  much of business plan to speak off. Cashing in on vision, charisma, and  hope, Clark has given the world a lesson in modern techno-economics, the  wild and weird essence of which Mr. Lewis lays bare for us in this  excellent study.followers and add  half billion or so to his own net worth in a few days via a public offering  of one of his companies that had neither earnings, a product,  nor even  much of business plan to speak off. Cashing in on vision, charisma, and  hope, Clark has given the world a lesson in modern techno-economics, the  wild and weird essence of which Mr. Lewis lays bare for us in this  excellent study.	2000-09-12
US	52790555	RA27PTE7UFAZS	0195209125	359859252	Europe: A History	Books	3	75	92	N	N	So Much History,  So Little Space	Having searched for an exhaustive survey of European history to buttress  my spotty grasp of the subject, I thought I'd found it with this book.  Starting out with the primordial ooze, Professor Davies takes 1136 pages to  lead us chronologically from there around all of the continent's many  subregions right into the current events of the post-Soviet era. He tries  very hard not to leave anything out. Thinking about the scope of the  material now, it's clear to me why I shouldn't have been looking for such a  book in the first place and why, for his part, Mr. Davies should not have  misdirected his considerable talents into writing it: there is simply too  much territory for any single volume to cover! One has to wonder what  audience the author was aiming at. In his introduction he himself points  out that he's introducing no new facts or fresh insights, limiting the  value to serious students of the subject.  However, casual students - such  as myself - are going to be frustrated by the light touch with which  everything is passed over. Pick pretty much at random any page and you'll  find references to half a dozen or more names or events, very few of which  are fleshed out at all before it's time on the next page to move onto  another century or a different region of this diverse continent. The author  seems to assume a pre-knowledge which, if the reader has, obviates the need  for a book of this type, and herein lies the contradiction  on which I'm  afraid it founders. One approach he might have taken is to trace unifying  themes throughout the history, but there's little of this - maybe such  themes don't exist - and by the end of the book, the reader is left holding  something of a hollow shell. Mr. Davies compounds the problem by devoting  maybe 20% of his already constrained space to little 1/4 to 2-page  out-of-context vignettes on subjects like medieval torture, the biblical  Book of Revelation, or European ballet. Some of these are entertaining  enough in their own right, others boring, but being boxed off from and  unrelated the surrounding text, they all serve mainly to aggravate the  already rather cumbersome flow of the history. On the positive side, Mr.  Davies is obviously a highly knowledgeable historian and a good writer.  However, he should have either applied himself to a multi-volume study, or  else picked a fragment of this massive history and shed some real light on  it.n their own right, others boring, but being boxed off from and  unrelated the surrounding text, they all serve mainly to aggravate the  already rather cumbersome flow of the history. On the positive side, Mr.  Davies is obviously a highly knowledgeable historian and a good writer.  However, he should have either applied himself to a multi-volume study, or  else picked a fragment of this massive history and shed some real light on  it.	2000-09-03
US	52790555	R13B240FJWXJFV	0140088784	876636990	Alexander the Great	Books	5	119	122	N	Y	Superb Writing	This is an extraordinary history. Anyone expecting a conventional biography will be disappointed, since the biased and fragmentary nature of the primary sources makes modern biographical treatment for Alexander impossible, even more so than for other ancient heroes.  However, one thing  about the peripatetic conqueror that seems to be known with some certainty  is the itinerary that defined his brief life. Starting from this, Mr. Lane  Fox applies his own intimate knowledge of the middle and near-eastern  landscape to create a book which, at its most basic, reads like a highly  literate travelogue. This is all backdrop, though, for a kind of detective  story as the author picks apart the tantalizing fragments of information  and disinformation that, once boiled down, reveal for us Alexander's  character. The bold military prodigy is clearly apparent here, but that's  the standard textbook part of the story. Rounding out the picture, we see  him as the cosmopolitan diplomat, beloved egalitarian leader-of-men,  bisexual libertine, respectful supplicant to his gods, forgiving victor,  gallant defender of women, ostentatious potentate, superstitious fool,  charismatic orator, fearless in-the-trenches combat commander, wily  tactician, boyish adventurer, child-like animal lover, sophisticated Greek  intellectual, reckless gambler, visionary strategist, loyal and generous  friend, bloody mass killer, and drunken lout.  And the truly remarkable  thing about the history is that all these persona somehow hang together,  creating a believable portrait that makes it clear why Alexander has  fascinated politicians, soldiers and scholars for twenty-three centuries.  Stylistically, this book is dense and will deter casual readers. However,  some patience through the early pages gives enough time to get into the  exotic poetry of place names and the flow of the story. The turgid logic of  the  character study takes over from there, and the case unfolds  majestically. This is a brilliant historian at work and I highly recommend  the book.lliant historian at work and I highly recommend  the book.	2000-03-11
US	52790555	R3E2EFKHNJSUKV	0848805119	111847135	I, Claudius (Hard Cover)	Books	5	4	8	N	Y	An Excellent but Troubling Book	The term &quot;historical fiction&quot;, when you think about it, is an oxymoron. And it's a genre that is by its very nature disturbing to those of us who like to believe that there's truth to be found in history,  because it seems to toying with this truth. The incidents recounted in this  particular book are based on historical sources that are, at best,  fragmentary, and at worst biased in their own right, and these are in turn  being overlaid by the imagination and literary license of a modern  novelist. Yet the stories lodge themselves in your consciousness as real  events because the writing is vivid and the characters, or at least the  rough models for the characters, were historical personages. The other  troubling thing here is the story itself, which is grotesque. If the Roman  ruling class was really the vipers nest of casual murder, deceit and  debauchery portrayed here, one wonders how they ever managed to sustain a  complex empire for as long as they did. But the story, whether a fair  historical representation or not, certainly gives testimony to Mr. Graves'  literary skills. The book is highly engaging. Putting aside my reservations  about the genre, I've already picked up a copy of the sequel,  &quot;Claudius the God&quot; in which it would appear the story of the  eccentric narrator accelerates into high gear. Hopefully, Mr. Graves hasn't  fully succumbed to the temptations offered by so fertile a premise.	1999-12-29
US	52790555	R8JF4VFR6NE6Q	0691017840	638703862	The Hero with a Thousand Faces (Bollingen Series, No. 17)	Books	5	3	12	N	N	Extraordinary Book	This book was unlike anything I've ever read - profound and wonderful	1999-11-18
US	52790555	R3BLFNJVDHHAX8	0446523089	728732887	The Secret of Shambhala: In Search of the Eleventh Insight	Books	2	13	18	N	N	Disappointed	The original CELESTINE PROPHECSY was successful in part because of its freshness. While Mr. Redfield's core ideas: synchronicity,  energy fields, and the spiritual evolution of the planet,  were in themselves hardly  original, he presented them in an appealing new way that had resonance for  contemporary readers. His sequels, however, especially this one, have been  disappointments because his thinking has hardened into a kind of repetitive  ideology. There's still some compelling material here underlying all this,  but Mr. Redfield needs to take a break to get back in touch with it	1999-11-18
US	52790555	R2VF2WN0RQUKGT	0425170055	626650351	Rainbow Six	Books	3	16	23	N	N	Clancy's gone off the deep end	I'm a great fan of Clancy and have read every one of his novels, however I've always harbored doubts about his mental stability. With this book, there are no more doubts and it becomes pretty clear that he's slipped over  into the deep end. I don't have any brief for radical environmentalists  either, but to concoct a plot where they're conspiring to use an engineered  virus to exterminate the entire human race in order to save the planet?  This is too much. The best parts of this book are the accounts of the  military actions executed by the Rainbow Six team against three terrorist  missions in the early chapters.  These scenes are top-notch vintage Clancy,  but since they are only indirectly related to the main storyline, they too  only add to its disjointed nature. As always with Clancy, character  development and dialogue are pretty shallow. The climactic action at the  end of the book where Rainbow Six takes down the eco-crazies  in an  effortless turkey shoot comes across as little more than a childish revenge  fantasy on Clancy's part, wholly unworthy of the warrior ethos he generally  represents in his work. Clancy was a his best in his early books where plot  and character were incidental to the military action. He's trying to do it  the other way around now, and he's out of his depth. He's still fun to  read, but he could use a strong editor rein him back into his zone of  competence.	1999-11-10
US	52790555	R23JDYMCRRW8XI	0471189677	486376579	Wyatt Earp: The Life Behind the Legend	Books	4	57	63	N	N	Wyatt Earp,  Ambiguous Hero	Those of us who grew up during the 1950's and 60's knew Wyatt Earp through TV Westerns and old movies, all made in an era that didn't tolerate much ambiguity between right and wrong. For us, Wyatt was a great frontier  lawman and unquestionably a  Good Guy if there ever was such a thing.  Today, of course, moral ambiguity is fashionable and revisionist historians  have conditioned us to look for the Dark Side in our heroes.  And in  fairness to the revisionists, heroes never do measure up to the pictures in  our imaginations, with the simple facts of Wyatt Earp's life standing as a  case in point. Far from being a professional lawman, he drifted into law  enforcement at various times in his life simply as a job that had to be  done. What really drove him were the fickle ambitions of the itinerant  gambler, saloon keeper, adventurer, and small-time land speculator he was,  hardly the stuff of heroic mythology. Nonetheless,  the most remarkable  dimension of Casey Tefertiller's biography is that Wyatt still emerges from  it as a hero. The very fact that, in a time when life expectancies tended  to be short, Wyatt  repeatedly scrapes through extraordinary dangers and  survives them all to die of natural causes in 1929 probably in itself fits  one definition of heroism. Symbolic of the whole picture was the famous  OK-Coral incident in which he leads the action, coolly wins his fight and,  looking very much like the bullet-proof iron man his legend later turned  him into, walks away without so much as a scratch anywhere on his body, the  only armed participant in the bloody duel to do so. But the heroism went  beyond his survival powers. Clearly, the man had a real magic about him,  magnified by the fact that he clearly never relished violence and relied  more on sheer force of will in performance of his law enforcement duties.  He rarely fired his gun, and avoided even carrying it unless he had to.  Maybe, once again, there is simply not enough  documentation to support a reliable account, and Tefertiller is unwilling  to indulge in imaginative reconstruction. But, boy, what a story we must be  missing out on here!  Despite its failings, this biography is enjoyable and  informative, and is certainly a must-read for Old-West aficionados.ort a reliable account, and Tefertiller is unwilling  to indulge in imaginative reconstruction. But, boy, what a story we must be  missing out on here!  Despite its failings, this biography is enjoyable and  informative, and is certainly a must-read for Old-West aficionados.	1999-09-03
US	52790555	R1UIX3Z5SHCW1J	0399143998	520752026	Light My Fire: My Life With the Doors	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Music Transcends the Fog	Retrospective first-person accounts of the late 1960's counterculture tend towards either nostalgia or else an older-and-wiser condescension. Ray Manzarek, however, strikes a  different note with this book. As co-founder  of the seminal rock band of the era, and as an individual who as much as  anybody was an insider to the cultural phenomenon now generally referred to  as \\"The Sixties\\", Manzarek comes across as a  unrepentant time-traveler.  Whole pages of this chronicle could be could be lifted out of context and,  if set down as stand-alone mini-essays, would defy the ability of any  cultural analyst date-stamp them much past 1972. I finished the book in  amazement that a man of Manzarek's intelligence could remain in an  intellectual time warp for thirty years. A plausible alternative  view  might be admiration for an value system powerful enough to remain intact  and vibrant for so long, but I myself don't feel that generous. If  Aquarian-Age philosophy was a  pagan cult, what we have here is the saga of  a man who may be its sole surviving true-believer. Central to the book is  an attempt to portray the charismatic Jim Morrison. Manzarek wants us to  see his friend as a genius poet and a free spirit, but he does a poor job  of squaring that with the end Morrison brought himself to. The destructive  alter-ego \\"Jimbo\\" that Manzarek invents to explain the paradox of  Morrison's nature comes across as facetious and doesn't explain anything.  The combination of naivete and us-against-the-pigs paranoia was the fatal  limitation to the otherwise life-affirming world view characteristic of the  sixties counterculture, and it is a limitation that pervades this book.  Manzarek's passion, however, is music, not philosophy or psychoanalysis.  The musical brotherhood that defined the Doors is the real theme of Light  My Fire, and this dimension of the book is pure magic. The last time I  listened to their stuff was twenty-five years ago in LP-mode, and after  finishing this read, I picked some of it up again in CD. The music still  works, and reading Manzarek is of value if it does nothing other than help  us rediscover it.s read, I picked some of it up again in CD. The music still  works, and reading Manzarek is of value if it does nothing other than help  us rediscover it.	1999-08-05
