US	52792973	RDXN7IOK2J6H3	1412037735	410377985	Mass with Mary: The Prison Years	Books	4	18	21	N	Y	Fast but Interesting Read	The writing is simple, but the words are powerful in describing life behind prison walls. I can see why pages had to be smuggled out, because this is what the WCCW staff would not want you to read. It details the gleefully sadistic mistreatment of  Letourneau  by prison staff because of who she was--though both authors point out that Letourneau's snotty, I'm-A-Celebrity Attitude did not help matters.  It reveals how arbitrarily and unfairly rules were applied and broken when dealing with prisoners in general. The two main authors also discover Letourneau's bipolar/split personality--the mature, take-charge teacher versus the overaged adolescent giggling and smoking with an extremely young inmate. Although both authors were gradually drawn to Mary's charisma and considered her a friend,  they did not condone her affair with Vili Fualauu. Like most people, the two authors viewed the relationship as extremely damaging to Vili and to the Letourneau children.  Mary's starry-eyed, giddy account of the love affair makes her out to be sadly demented and delusional.<br /><br />It is a shame Christina Dress did not continue on this book when she was sent back to prison for a second time. It would have been interesting to read about Letourneau's entire stay in prison.	2004-11-12
US	52792973	R94T7YM1RIS2L	0671023888	935218192	All She Wanted	Books	3	4	11	N	N	Not all are held accountable-AUTHOR IS BIASED	This book is excellent in portraying Teena Brandon's life before she decided to transform herself into Brandon--something you don't get in \\"The Teena Brandon Story\\" documentary. You can follow the problems Teena went through struggling with her sexual identity crisis, starting with her own family problems and the ensuing life of petty crime. As Brandon, he had the misfortune of linking up with the wrong people in the wrong town.  Given the volatile nature of small-town life with deadend jobs and domestic violence, combining a F2M individual and these ignorant rednecks was an explosive, ill-fated mixture.<br />However, what disturbs me in this book is the writer's obvious affection for Lana Tisdel and her mother, two people whom I feel were linked to Brandon's murder. They may not have pulled the trigger, but those two lowlifes were as much to blame for Brandon's murder as the two men. Apparently Aphrodite Jones felt the only way she could get information for her book about Brandon was to cater to those two women, which I find appalling. She goes so far as to gush on how beautiful Lana is, when photos revealed Lana to be an plain, average-looking Midwestern white female.  Not surprisingly, a good percentage of photos in the book are contributed by Lana and her family. This is where I do not feel it is an entirely truthful book because of this favortism towards Lana and her mother. \\"Boys Don't Cry\\" correctly depicted Lana and her mother for what they really were--two white trash losers.<br />Read this book to learn more about Teena's life as a whole, but to get a true insight of the main players, I highly recommend \\"Boys Don't Cry.\\"	2004-03-01
US	52792973	RBDOP8H66NC0C	1885840055	291119392	Freak: Inside the Twisted World of Michael Jackson	Books	4	14	33	N	Y	SENSATIONALISTIC! TABLOID FODDER!  A GREAT READ!!!	Now if this book didn't have emblazoned on its cover: \\"From the files of the National Enquirer,\\" perhaps my fellow reviewers wouldn't have judged it so harshly. After all, the Enquirer does have quite a trashy reputation (but we all still read the headlines while waiting in the checkout line at the supermarket). Nevertheless, this book is an intriguing read. It  moves along at a good pace and is fairly well-written, minus a couple of typos.<br />If Michael Jackson is considered a freak, it is his own doing, for he masterminded many of the publicity stunts in order to gain and enhance an \\"edgy\\" image.  He turned his life and his face into National Enquirer News. Sadly, all of this caught up to him, and Mr. Bishop explains  how Jackson is now looked upon as a pathetic freak, a walking sideshow, a space alien misogynist with an unnatural thirst for pre-pubescent boys. From reading this book, one cannot help but draw parallels to another well-known eccentric, Mr. Howard Hughes.  A good portion of the book is devoted to the 1993 Jordie Chandler affair and the eventual payoff. Bishop goes into graphic detail relaying Jackson's agony  after he learned of molestation charges against him... It's all there for you to read in glorious technicolor yawns.<br />Believe it or not, Bishop tries to present positive aspects of Jackson's life as well, so this book is not all negative press. It is a compelling read for anybody interested in the King of Pop.	2003-04-20
US	52792973	R3J89UI4MW2J3O	0767903927	986288860	Instant Emotional Healing: Acupressure for the Emotions	Books	5	61	62	N	Y	This REALLY WORKS!	I'm not one to dash out and buy the latest gadget I see on an infomercial. Nor am I into pop psychology, I'm-ok-You're-ok mode of thinking. But I was at a point where I thought something like this book could help me.  This book was featured on one of the daytime talk shows (can't remember which). The authors were interviewed, and various patients gave their testimonies. Although I was not fully convinced, I figured the book was worth a try.<br />The beginning part is like a pep talk--I skipped that and read about the methods employed to help yourself in certain stressful situations. This book is excellent and the methods used to heal specific emotional problems WORK!  I was skeptical until I tried the exercises and felt the results. They are effective even on a short-term basis; even more so on a daily basis. I would give this book 10 stars if I could.	2003-02-15
US	52792973	R3PDID8PFY661O	0316332208	813066311	Last Train to Memphis: The Rise of Elvis Presley	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Reverent and Respectful	Guralnick takes a scholarly approach to an American Pop Icon, giving a detailed, fact-based account of The King without the sensationalistic, tabloid-style trashiness found in other quickly-written-for-profit, exploitative Elvis books. He divides his work into two books: the first, Last Train to Memphis, traces his meteoric rise, while the second explores more aspects of his superstardom and then his decline. Guralnick's books on Elvis Presley are a welcome addition for those interested in a serious, respectful treatise on a talented, generous, and complex artist.	2003-02-15
US	52792973	R67DU4FBXOSNK	0316332224	917118182	Careless Love: The Unmaking of Elvis Presley	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Brilliantly written, scholarly treatise	Few people have ever impacted American culture as did Elvis Presley; his contribution to rock music is immeasurable. Guralnick takes a scholarly approach and writes a carefully researched, detailed biography of The King. The first book deals with his meteoric rise from humble beginnings; the second deals with superstar Elvis and his sad decline.  No doubt readers will wonder how they could have saved Elvis if only they'd known him; unfortunately, the only person who could have saved Elvis was himself. Forces and fate no doubt played a role which drove Elvis to use drugs as an escape from the stresses and abnormality of his life.<br />Both books by Guralnick stand alone as well-written biographies of the King. However, I recommend reading them both to get the full impact. It is refreshing to have available a serious, respectful book on Elvis Presley that's void of the usual sensationalistic, simplistic trash found in other, hastily-churned-out Presley biographies.	2003-02-15
US	52792973	R1L0GHUH4IMH1U	0553378260	261442262	Rita Will: Memoir of a Literary Rabble-Rouser	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Funny and Wild	This book is hilarious--several times I found myself laughing out loud at something she said. I minused out one star because of her blatant southern-centricism--she thinks most of us Yankees are rude, and that only southerners possess real manners. My little tabby cat Sammy says PFFFFFTTT to that.<br />Her account of the Martina/Judy galimony brouhaha is especially hilarious, with poor Rita Mae stuck in the middle, trying to encourage the two to settle things amicably. She gives a highly unflattering (but probably true) portrait of Judy Nelson. Her first impression of Judy was: &quot;How often do you meet a woman whose hair can be ruined by a ceiling fan?&quot; That one cracks me up every time.  She talks about some of her relationships with women, most notable those with Martina Navratilova, Fannie Flagg, and Judy Nelson.<br />She relates the struggles she went through getting a college education and establishing her writing career, but she manages to keep things light by peppering amusing anecdotes of family life (and reactions) in between the more serious  passages. She talks about her days as an lesbian feminist activist with Betty Friedan and Gloria Steinem, which I found to be of great interest, as she worked closely with these famous women. She is not kind to Billie Jean King, declaring, &quot;Some people get the face they deserve as they grow old; Billie Jean also got the thighs she deserved.&quot; MEOOWWW. Sneaky Pie must have contributed that one.<br />This is a thoroughly enjoyable read, full of Southern wit and charm. If you're a fan of Rita Mae's work, you'll love reading her real-life story.	2003-02-14
US	52792973	R2KZBBCBGN6RD6	0060928336	859404350	Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Book: 5 stars;  Movie 0 Stars	What else can be said that my other reviewers hasn't already covered? This is a great, Cajun-flavored book that examines relationships and friendships between mothers and daughters, husbands and wives, and the five female friends who formed the Ya-Yas as children.<br />With the help of a thick scrapbook and the Ya-Yas themselves, a rift between Sidalee and her mother Vivi is resolved, tightening the bonds  between mother and daughter. Along the way, the reader discovers the divine secrets of the Ya-Yas, although the main focus is Vivi Abbott Walker. At times the book is quite hilarious,  at times very sad, which makes for a great story, because that's what life is all about.  After reading this wonderful book, I was anxious to see the movie. Don't bother--the film is a huge disappointment compared to the book.	2003-02-13
US	52792973	R6WFSE0XVUQWW	0394536401	84376780	Martina	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A dated, but interesting view of Martina's life	This book is an interesting (but dated) autobiography by Martina. She explains about her childhood in then Communist Czechoslovakia, talking about people who influenced her and shaped her tennis career, starting with her grandmother and first coach. We learn about friends like Chris Evert, Sandra Haynie, Nancy Liebermann, Billie Jean King, Renee Richards, and how they shaped her tennis career. We also read about her relationship with Rita Mae Brown, plus the showdown with her parents once they figured out she was gay. It's interesting to observe Martina's mindset at this time--in her book, she was still making a half-hearted attempt to convince the reader that she was bisexual and interested in men...she mentioned Wayne Gretzky and speculates what an amazing kid they'd produce. At the time this book was published, Martina was in the throes of passion with Judy Nelson, former Maid of Cotton with The Perfect Hair and future Martina nemesis. I'd really like to see Martina update this biography--it would interesting to hear  her side of the Martina/Judy Galimony Fracas, as well as how she felt when she finally retired from tennis, plus what she sees herself doing  in the years ahead. I'd like to learn more about what she thinks of today's tennis players and comment on past tennis players with successful, but brief careers.	2003-02-13
US	52792973	R1Z2YJCQYOXV3W	0425091031	898953770	Elvis and Me: The True Story of the Love Between Priscilla Presley and the King of Rock N' Roll	Books	2	20	26	N	N	Presenting The Priscilla Myth	Simplistic in its writing style, Priscilla tells about her life and her relationship with The King.  The truth is heavily embellished and &quot;Priscilla-tized&quot;, making for a great romance novel but not for an accurate account of how she met Elvis and their relationship. If you do read this book, you ABSOLUTELY MUST read &quot;Child Bride&quot; by Suzanne Finstad along with it, and judge for yourself if Miss Priscilla is being completely honest with herself and with her readers. I could not help but feel a strong underlying resentment and jealousy towards Elvis that seeps through her narration.  Priscilla's book has many interesting revelations and anecdotes, but after you read &quot;Child Bride&quot;, it's more intriguing to see what Priscilla didn't include in her autobiography than what she did.	2003-02-13
US	52792973	R2FMFH09MK2GU5	155972157X	823240212	Love Match: Nelson Vs. Navratilova	Books	2	11	11	N	N	Self Serving Tabloid Tell-all--A Scorned Wife Pity Party	This is an interesting book, self-serving at times. It presents the relationship from Judy's point of view. The best part of the book is the Introduction by Rita Mae Brown--that is absolutely hilarious, but insightful. I kept reading her introduction over and over.<br />Presenting the printed version of-- THS: Judy Nelson. Judy tells of her childhood, being Maid of Cotton, her first marriage to her rich doctor hubby who was cheating on her with one of his nurses, and how she met Martina. She discusses their years together, but the bulk of the book is on Judy's \\"galimony\\" suit against Martina and the ensuing brouhaha and media circus. Judy, as Martina's wife, felt she deserved half of Martina's earnings and property gained during their time together. The book gets rather tiresome at times; Nelson tries very hard to convince the reader to side with her. She really wants your sympathy, so she pours it on thick, carefully omitting or playing down all the expensive gifts and jewelry and perks Martina showered upon her during their relationship.<br />You can see her point about why she went after Martina after their breakup, yet the book is so one-sided, you ache to hear Martina's side of the story as well. I don't think we will get that chance, as Martina does not care to stoop to Judy's level. For an insightful view of Judy and Martina, and of their galimony battle, read Rita Mae Brown's \\"Rita Will.\\" It gives a thoughtful, yet hilarious account of Rita's involvement as mediator in the Martina/Judy battle. And Rita's accurate portrait of Judy is a scream--she describes Judy as a person \\"whose hair gets ruined by a ceiling fan\\" and other witty, caustic observations that are most unflattering. Rita Mae's insights helps you to understand Judy's book even better. All in all, Judy's book is an interesting read when you don't feel like taxing your brain.	2003-02-06
US	52792973	R321EE91PPQWGX	0375760261	862834630	The Truth Is . . .: My Life in Love and Music	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Searingly honest...the life behind her songs	A refreshingly frank and honest autobiography by Melissa Etheridge.  The reader can learn about the life behind her songs; her body of work is auto-biographical on its own, but this book offers a more detailed look. Melissa tells of her past loves and how those women and other people  influenced her music. Simply told, this book is an great read for anybody interested in Etheridge's music and the creative force behind it.	2003-01-21
US	52792973	R1PD9UXYET2431	0060193921	918268191	State of a Union: Inside the Complex Marriage of Bill and Hillary Clinton	Books	5	7	11	N	N	An Accurate, Carefully Researched Portrait of the Clintons	Unlike Peggy Noonan's trashy tome about Hillary Clinton which I lambasted in another review, this book was excellent, being factual, carefully researched and well written. The author delves into family histories of both Clintons, which helps the reader to better understand how their upbringing shaped their personalities. Oppenheimer interviews numerous friends and relatives who were close to the Clintons, and disputes some inaccuracies found in other Clinton biographies.<br />Of all the books I've read on Bill and Hillary, this one portrayed them the most objectively and fairly.  It is not a one-sided, gossipy tell-all but a careful study of the Clinton's marriage and an analysis of their very diverse, but complimentary personalities: Hillary as a strident, intense,  ambitious perfectionist from the Midwest and Bill, an affable, laid-back, shrewd, womanizing Southern boy. Their strengths helped them to achieve their goal of the Presidency; but their weaknesses proved to be their undoing.<br />Theirs is not a marriage of love but one of raw political ambition and power, a business partnership in which a deal was struck before their nuptials.  Of the two, Hillary comes off the worse. Her foul mouth and vicious \\"go-for-the-jugular\\" attacks against opponents and friends  are legendary. Bill, clearly eclipsed and overpowered  by his strong-willed wife, resorts to behaving like an oversexed school boy,  unzipping his fly at the drop of a hat. Possibly his excessive womanizing is because Hillary castrates him on a daily basis, so poor Bill has to make sure his equipment grows back and is in working order....hmm, that sounds like a familiar Greek myth, only instead of entails being ripped out by a vulture and growing back overnight, we have...,well you get the picture.<br />This book is out of print, but if you can snare a used copy here at Amazon.com, you're in for an intelligent, enjoyable read.	2002-12-11
US	52792973	R1X54ES43OW6JU	0815412185	766204042	Temptations	Books	5	6	11	N	Y	TEMPTATIONS FOREVER!	I taped the movie on TV, and that was so good, I had to buy this book, as there is so much more information and insights that a movie cannot cover.<br />Otis Williams is the glue that has kept The Temptations together all these years, so it is only fitting that he be the one to write this memoir.This is an insightful portrayal of one of Motown's top groups. Otis  tells the story with great honesty and simplicity, without any mudslinging  or gossipy viciousness  that is often found in celebrity \\"tell-all\\" books. He is frank but fair in his portrayal of various group members, describing their strengths as well as their weaknesses. For example, he talks about David Ruffin's drug problems and huge ego, but also admires David's showmanship and great  talent.  The tone of the book is very positive, written by somebody who has lived life to the fullest and is grateful to still be alive and singing.  At times he is very humble, in awe that God  blessed him with the good fortune to be in a group like the Temptations. Even when Otis describes sad or difficult episodes in his life, (such as the death of  his only son and fellow Temptations), this book still remain upbeat and even spiritual  at times. It is inspiring to see how these men from humble backgrounds were able to become one of the top singing groups of all time. You'll find yourself reading this book again and again.	2002-12-04
US	52792973	RQ4HIAT8A9VD5	0771023367	647542856	When Hell Freezes Over, Should I Bring My Skates?	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Outrageous Opinions and Fun from Toller Once Again	Once again, you'll be entertained with Toller's outrageous anecdotes about life as a famous figure skater. He details more of his struggles as an amateur skater in this book than in Zero Tollerance. He may act like a Drama Queen at times, but he is grounded enough not to take himself too seriously, and even pokes fun at himself. That honesty is what I like about his writing. He writes about a deranged fan who has stalked him for years and offers a vivid and quite hilarious account of dining with Liberace. You'll never look at Lee quite the same after reading Toller's experience with the famous entertainer. What I also found fascinating was Toller's opinions on today's skaters. He deplores the crass commercialism and outrageous behavior of some skaters, feeling that their behavior and attitude has done nothing to enhance the art of figure skating. He singles out the commercially popular Philippe Candeloro as a &quot;Chippendale Dancer on Skates.&quot; You may not agree with what he has to say, but he is brutally honest and not afraid to speak his mind. He actually says what other people might think. Most importantly, if he describes a skater's faults, he also tells of their strengths. For example, Toller deplores Elvis' lack of artistry but admires his amazing technical skills. It's a shame that the CBC does not use Toller as a commentator, because he would be like a breath of fresh air instead of the usual boring dribble and fawning from today's skating commentators.	2001-08-25
US	52792973	R4KSXS69GPGYR	0967378508	692636503	Growing Up Brady: I Was a Teenage Greg, Special Collector's Edition	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Entertaining Read for Brady Boomers!	Honest and candid, Barry Williams gives us a funny, entertaining viewpoint of growing up as Greg Brady of &quot;The Brady Bunch.&quot; What I like about this book is that he tells of his start in show business, then details life as part of &quot;The Brady Bunch&quot;. He expresses amazement that people still love and want to see the Brady Family which resulted in several made-for-TV Brady movies with the old cast and the hilarious Brady Bunch movies with Shelly Long as Carol Brady. Of course Williams describes his crush on Maureen McCormack as well as other Brady Kid pairings once the cameras stopped rolling. It must have been frustrating for him and for the other actors portraying the Brady kids because most of them were not like their characters at all, yet the public expected them to behave that way. Can you picture that Thweet Little Thindy (Susan Olsen) is now a hard-drinking woman? Williams tells of them swapping Brady stories over drinks on an airplane. The only thing I didn't like was at the end of the book, a synopsis of each Brady Bunch episode was included to plump up the book. While that info might be useful for die-hard Bradyphiles, I would have preferred that Williams give us more anecdotes about his life as Greg Brady or better yet, life after Greg Brady, since the bulk of the book is focused on the Brady Years.	2001-08-25
US	52792973	R2LDJ5EOAV3J60	0070237700	904356778	Off Balance: The Real World of Ballet	Books	5	10	10	N	N	BALLET STUDENTS AND THEIR PARENTS MUST READ THIS BOOK!	Everything is NOT beautiful at the ballet.... This is a no-holds barred look at the dark side of ballet. If you thought &quot;Little Girls in Pretty Boxes&quot; was horrifying, this book is twice as shocking. Parents need to read this book in order to see what kind of life is in store for their child pursuing a career in dance. Ballet's stringent requirements for female dancers demand a breastless, hipless, ultra-thin body, which causes most dancers to become bulimic or anorexic. Gordon devotes an entire chapter to eating disorders rampant at ballet schools and in companies; it is shocking to note that many schools have weekly &quot;weigh-in's&quot;, which only adds to the dancers' anguish if their weight goes up. Coupled with the physical demands of ballet, undernourished dancers are highly prone to injury and illness. Former dancers that Gordon interviewed are so crippled from injuries they can barely walk. The sacrifices to become a professional ballet dancer are enormous for both dancer and parents. Apart from principals, professional dancers make very little money, with no benefits or security after they've retired. The lifespan of a dancer is brief; many are already washed up and finished by their late twenties. Gordon admires the tenacity and dedication of the ballet dancers, but deplores their working conditions and the appalling demands ballet requires on their bodies. Gordon talks about the invisible partner, that of the ballet mother and how these women give up a normal life to give total support to the dancing child. She writes about the bitter rivalries between ballet mothers, which only increases their isolation and loneliness; it's not surprising these women become totally absorbed and obssessed with their children's success in dancing. With only a limited number of slots available in ballet companies, there is fierce competitiveness amongst students at the ballet academies, which is encouraged by the teachers. Movies like &quot;Center Stage&quot; and &quot;The Turning Point&quot; only scratch the surface of what life is really like as a ballet student or professional dancer; this books paints a more realistic portrait. Gordon interviewed hundreds of dancers for this book; however, the ballet world is such a closed world, most did not allow her to use their actual names, for fear that their comments would jeopardize their careers in dance. It is astonishing to discover how much power these ballet schools, teachers and choreographers have over their students; life in the studio causes dancers to have tunnel vision and renders them totally unprepared to cope in the real world once their all-too-short careers have ended. Although this book is out of print, do what you can to get a copy through amazon.com's services. You'll think twice before encouraging your child to become a dancer.&quot;The Turning Point&quot; only scratch the surface of what life is really like as a ballet student or professional dancer; this books paints a more realistic portrait. Gordon interviewed hundreds of dancers for this book; however, the ballet world is such a closed world, most did not allow her to use their actual names, for fear that their comments would jeopardize their careers in dance. It is astonishing to discover how much power these ballet schools, teachers and choreographers have over their students; life in the studio causes dancers to have tunnel vision and renders them totally unprepared to cope in the real world once their all-too-short careers have ended. Although this book is out of print, do what you can to get a copy through amazon.com's services. You'll think twice before encouraging your child to become a dancer.	2001-07-21
US	52792973	R1GCSF454D72BI	0385247125	574064783	Moon Walk	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Light, Simplistic Autobiography By the Gloved One	With its double spacing, positive tone and simple language, this book is aimed towards a 9-14 year old audience. It is an interesting biography, actually written by the Gloved One with the assistance of the late Jackie O as his editor. It is not a balanced biography, but then again, who would expect the enigmatic, eccentric Jackson to write a totally honest biography about himself? Unfortunately, he has a lot to hide nowadays. What I do like about his biography is that Jackie O was careful to ensure Michael's writing sounds like Michael, and not like some &quot;As Told To&quot; celebrity ghostwriter. (Often celebrities use ghost writers for their biographies since most cannot write that well.) There's a lot of great photos of Michael and his friends and family. This book also has pleasing graphics, so visuals were taken into consideration, which I, as a graphic designer, can appreciate. A light read for a rainy day. A positive, upbeat book for kids.	2001-07-19
US	52792973	R334WJE7B4WWDG	0060393408	962636193	The Case Against Hillary Clinton	Books	3	23	43	N	N	Facts Are True but Author Tries Mind Reading Hillary, Venturing Into Fiction	I bought this book at a thrift store. I wrote a review of this book back in 2001, when I had still bought into the Clinton myth. Initially I had given this book 1 star, but I'm increasing it to three stars. I would have rated it higher, but I didn't like the author trying to speculate what HRC was thinking. The author had enough information about Hillary without having to resort to fiction writing. What Ms Noonan says about HRC is absolutely true when she sticks to the facts. What a difference 15 years makes with my opinion of the Clintons--I loathe them both.<br /><br />Both Clintons are cold, ruthless, greedy, power-hungy people but I feel Hillary is the money-hungry one, giving private speeches to Goldman Sachs, her &#34;Pay for Play&#34; scheme during her Secretary of State years  and the questionable donors of the Clinton Foundation. Her evidence that she doesn't give a damn about Americans is evidenced by the Benghazi tragedy that she simply shrugged off, demanding to &#34;move on&#34;; her blatant disregard of security evidenced by the email server debacle; disappearing funds meant for Haitian relief when Bill Clinton was the designated UN representative for aid to Haiti and had established his Haiti Reconstruction Fund. Hillary was Secretary of State and was in charge of U.S. aid allocated to Haiti, yet Haitians claim they did not receive the aid that was set aside for them...but at the same time, the Clinton Foundation coffers increased substantially.<br /><br />HRC aligns herself with feminists, but when it came to the women accusing her husband of rape or sexual assault, Hillary did everything in her power to silence these women with threats, ridicule, using the media to destroy their reputations while St. Bill kept unzipping his fly. Both Clintons feel they are above the law, and never has this been more evident that the email server debacle.<br /><br />This tabloid-style book was obviously written in 2000 to convince New Yorkers not to elect HRC to the U.S. Senate. Did Noonan's efforts pay off? Unfortunately, no. That's too bad. Noonan says she doesn't hate the former First Lady, but she does slices and dices HRC into tiny little pieces, which I now feel is very much deserved, considering how corrupt HRC is. Noonan exposes HRC as an ambitious, ruthless politician who is hellbent on making the history books instead of doing real good for the people. This is true, especially in light of Clinton's stint as Secretary of State and her attempt at the Presidency. When you think about it, what has HRC done in her political career that makes her a standout? Nothing. HRC is obsessed with making history instead of making policy that would help people. I agree with Noonan on many points about HRC, but I would have respected Noonan's book more if she would have stuck to the facts and not decided to venture into fiction writing in her attempts to tap inside the First Lady's head and record what the First Lady might be thinking during actual events. Whatever convincing arguments and valid points Ms Noonan makes about HRC are diminished because of her ventures into mindreading. I suggest Ms. Noonan offer an updated version of her book, eliminate the speculation/mindreading sections, since there's much more she can discuss about HRC that are facts.rts pay off? Unfortunately, no. That's too bad. Noonan says she doesn't hate the former First Lady, but she does slices and dices HRC into tiny little pieces, which I now feel is very much deserved, considering how corrupt HRC is. Noonan exposes HRC as an ambitious, ruthless politician who is hellbent on making the history books instead of doing real good for the people. This is true, especially in light of Clinton's stint as Secretary of State and her attempt at the Presidency. When you think about it, what has HRC done in her political career that makes her a standout? Nothing. HRC is obsessed with making history instead of making policy that would help people. I agree with Noonan on many points about HRC, but I would have respected Noonan's book more if she would have stuck to the facts and not decided to venture into fiction writing in her attempts to tap inside the First Lady's head and record what the First Lady might be thinking during actual events. Whatever convincing arguments and valid points Ms Noonan makes about HRC are diminished because of her ventures into mindreading. I suggest Ms. Noonan offer an updated version of her book, eliminate the speculation/mindreading sections, since there's much more she can discuss about HRC that are facts.	2001-07-11
US	52792973	R95I9U2MMSBOZ	0316115967	619836183	Family Outing: A Guide to the Coming-Out Process for Gays, Lesbians, & Their Families	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Much-needed Resource and Guide	It is a shame that this book, along with Betty DeGeneres' &quot;Love, Ellen&quot; book, weren't available 20-30 years ago. These books could have saved thousands of gays and lesbians and their parents much pain and anguish. Coming out is never easy, but this book and Betty's can help to serve as a great starting point. Chastity talks about her own coming-out process; most importantly, she includes coming-out testimonies from ordinary, every-day folks. Sensitively written, this book is a valuable tool. To those who cannot bring themselves to disclose, buy this book for help and guidance. To those who cannot bring themselves to accept, buy this book (and Betty's too), and become enlightened.	2001-07-11
US	52792973	R1IMCAQSYAXVQ3	155972496X	792565599	Ellen: The Real Story of Ellen Degeneres	Books	1	24	25	N	N	CHEAP REHASH OF MAGAZINES, NEWS ARTICLES AND VIDEOS	I bought this book expecting a carefully researched, full biography on Ellen. Instead it was basically a rehash of magazine articles, videos, and news stories about Ellen and her Coming-Out. The author did not even interview Ellen, so we don't get a true, direct-source picture of Ellen's life. Instead, we have old information taken from other sources and condensed into this book. It doesn't sound like the author interviewed Ellen's closest friends and associates, either; I got the impression that a lot of the information was third- or fourth-hand, not directly from the sources. This book is crassly commercial and written at the time that public interest in Ellen was at its peak. It reads like a fan magazine and its sole purpose was to make money, not to provide an insightful biography of Ellen DeGeneres. I would only recommend it to those who no longer have access to the magazines and videos about Ellen's show and her coming-out.	2001-07-11
US	52792973	R1PRYAPZ8FKQK7	0446602469	131484584	Dream Lovers: The Magnificent Shattered Lives of Bobby Darin and Sandra Dee - By Their Son Dodd Darin	Books	5	133	138	N	Y	Look At Me I'm Sandra Dee--the truth behind the image	A detailed, well-written account of the lives of Sandra Dee and Bobby Darin as authored by their son. What is also interesting is that Sandra Dee's own comments are included, written in her voice, as if she is speaking to the reader. Her commentary is honest, sad, and painfully revealing; at times she sounds very detached, which makes it even more touching. Her onscreen image of a sweet, blonde teen-age virgin (as spoofed in the song &quot;Look At Me I'm Sandra Dee&quot; from the movie soundtrack &quot;Grease&quot;) was the antithesis of what her life was really like. Starting at age 5, she was molested by her stepfather; as she matured, she was forced to submit to sex with him. Dee's mother knew about this, but turned a blind eye and lived vicariously through her daughter's movie career. Thanks to her dyfunctional mother and stepfather, Sandra developed a severe eating disorder which plagues her to this day. Of the two, I found Sandra's story to be the most interesting and the most tragic, although Darin's life wasn't a piece of cake, either. He struggled with a heart condition, living his life as a race against time, knowing that eventually his heart would give out. Once you start reading this book, you won't want to put it down. This book shows how two gifted young entertainers lived quite tortured and difficult lives once the cameras stopped rolling.	2001-07-11
US	52792973	RKWL77ZFXLWBA	0312051697	911205302	That Girl and Phil: An Insider Tells What Life Is Really Like in the Marlo Thomas/Phil Donahue Household	Books	4	45	54	N	N	Deliciously Fun, Trashy Gossip...Ann Marie she ain't!	Imagine hearing sweet Ann Marie of &quot;That Girl&quot; swear, uttering the word &quot;F--K&quot; in every other sentence? Imagine &quot;That Girl&quot; mistreat the help and never clean up after herself, ever?? Her house manager Desmond Atholl debunks the carefully honed image created by Marlo Thomas in this dishy, tell-all book. Poor Danny Thomas must be rolling over in his grave over this one. As a child, Marlo Thomas grew up spoiled and indulged, a privileged little princess whose every whim was catered to by servants. Such odious pampering resulted in an adult woman who is an immature, selfish, self-absorbed, flaky, scatterbrained control freak, used to ALWAYS having her own way. It's sad to see that, because the public Marlo Thomas tries to do good, lending her name to good causes, rubbing shoulders with liberals and feminists, but apparently it's all for show. She claims to be an advocate for the disdvantaged and the poor, yet she treats her own servants and staff like dirt. In spite of being in charge of this difficult woman and her Household from Hell, Desmond Atholl manages to retain his cheeky humor and outrageousness. I supposed he had to, in order to survive Hurricane Marlo. You'll never be able to watch old re-runs of &quot;That Girl&quot; the same way after reading this hilarious book. It should be entitled, &quot;Free to Be...ME ME ME!&quot;	2001-07-11
US	52792973	R1SDMH55GRE5MT	0812924576	156595994	Fire on Ice:: The Exclusive Inside Story of Tonya Harding	Books	2	11	12	N	N	Interesting but Quick Read about the Tonya/Nancy Debacle	This book was hastily churned out at the height of the Tonya/Nancy knee-whacking incident as a quick money maker for the author and publisher. The problem with this book is that it is not a well-rounded biography of Tonya; the emphasis is too much on the knee-whacking incident and shortly thereafter, stopping just before the '94 Winter Games. It is an interesting collectible for Tonya-philes, but does not give a full portrait of the talented, complex, troubled young woman. Hopefully a more comprehensive biography of Ms. Harding will be available in the future.	2001-07-11
US	52792973	R2XUJ3Y4OR5EQB	0070671672	226949392	Peggy Fleming: Cameo of a champion	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Delightful Book for Young People	This is a fine children's book detailing the life of Peggy Fleming, from the time she first donned skates to when she turned professional. This book is out of print, but if you can find one available through Amazon.com's Rared and Used book outlet or through Amazon's auctions, it is well worth purchasing. It is profusely illustrated with lots of great black and white photos of Peggy. It is a must-have collectible for Peggy Fleming fans young and old alike. The book is well-written, but aimed for young readers. If you want to read a more detailed account of Fleming's life, purchase her upbeat autobiography, &quot;The Long Program.&quot;	2001-05-22
US	52792973	R7DQ87BRBJWH4	0226686671	21044876	Liberace: An American Boy	Books	5	11	13	N	Y	The DEFINITIVE Liberace Biography	Carefully researched and well written, this extensive volume details the life of Liberace, peeling away the layers and layers of half-truths, deceptions, and publicity machine myths. A well-loved and talented entertainer, Liberace lived a double life protecting his public image with a fierceness that caused much private agony. Liberace could not even tell the truth in his own biography, lest he be labeled as a liar and countersued by publications he had sued when they reported he was gay. This book details his relationships with friends, family and lovers. Pyron also gives wonderful detail on how Liberace got his start, tracing his career from his start in sleezy Wisconsin dives to his lavish Las Vegas productions. Liberace was smart enough to know his limitations and to exploit his strengths. This books gives a balanced view of the man and the entertainer; in addition, the author gives a detailed historical/sociological background about the lives of gay men in general, which provides an informative backdrop and better understanding of how and why Liberace functioned the way he did. The book may seem rather monotous and dry at times, but that is the author's style; this is a serious, intelligent book, not some gossipy tell-all. Unlike many biographers who write about celebrities, Pyron has great regard and respect for his subject. A must for all Liberace fans and for those interested in the lives of famous gay entertainers.	2001-05-22
US	52792973	R2IYI0WKP4DDU1	1877961116	470513115	Behind the Candelabra: My Life With Liberace	Books	4	117	125	N	N	Candid View of Liberace from a Former Lover's Standpoint	This book is a great read--full of dish and gossip. Yet it provides readers with a view of Liberace's personal life as seen through the eyes of former lover Scott Thorson, only 18 years old when he met the famous entertainer. Liberace went to outrageous lengths to protect his public image as that of a confirmed heterosexual bachelor entertainer, yet ironically Thorson and the gay community watching one of Lee's Vegas shows knew the truth right off the bat. I believe Thorson's book is the first one that spoke of Lee's lifestyle, dispelling all the carefully constructed myths by Lee's PR people and by the entertainer himself. Thorson writes about how Liberace's circle of friends and employees always jostled for position with the entertainer; how these cronies resented Scott's position with the famous star. You can see that Thorson developed a great affection and love for Liberace; however, Liberace, ever the Svengali, goes to extremes to remake Scott in his own image with fancy clothes, jewelry, and plastic surgery, which proves to be Thorson's undoing. A life of excitement, mega-shopping sprees, expensive gifts and largesse, turns into one of isolation, betrayal and drug addiction. Thorson was responsible for exposing Lee's true lifestyle to the public and was entangled in a 4-year lawsuit which he settled, upon learning that Lee had HIV. It would be easy to look upon this book as a celebrity trashing by a bitter lover, but fortunately Thorson never stoops that low. He still maintains great affection for Lee, even when he details the bitterness and battles of their relationship.	2001-05-22
US	52792973	R9B8I43B35MQF	0671009443	461880729	Private Parts	Books	5	3	4	N	N	ABSOLUTE SCREAM...YOU'LL LAUGH YOUR BUNS OFF!	Stern is brilliantly irreverent. He is not afraid to tell the truth--he will say things that most of us wouldn't dream of saying aloud. He is the Voice of the Silent Majority, the Man of the Common People. Not only can he say the most outrageous things, but he has the quick wit and brilliance to defend himself from the slings and arrows of those who dare to challenge him. My favorite is his trashing of egotistical, conceited celebrities. He is not awed or intimidated by the rich and famous. He is quick to expose their hypocrisy and their lies, and I just love that about him.  Yet what's great is that Stern doesn't hesitate to make fun of himself as well.  If you can get pass his vulgar, graphic language and the scatological humor, you'll realize Stern is a brilliant satiricist and incredibly funny. As a credit to Stern's humor, my husband lost his father and was depressed for many months, rarely smiling. The only thing that made him laugh was Howard's book. I would to him aloud chapters of &quot;Private Parts&quot;, and he'd laugh his head off. His favorite chapter was &quot;Yes I am Fartman&quot;, a painfully explicit, but very funny dissertation on Stern's excessive flatulence. Buy this book and Stern's &quot;Miss America&quot;--both are great reads.	2001-04-05
US	52792973	R2MUEI3IP17Y0K	0061011886	309947144	Enter Whining	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Absolutely Hilarious, Honest and Candid	Fran Drescher is as funny in print as she was on &quot;The Nanny&quot;. Filled with witticisms and wisecracks, you'll find this book hard to put down once you start reading it! It's also filled with tons of photos--Fran is quite a shutterbug and always has her camera ready to record even the most mundane (yet still interesting) aspects of her life. She talks about her rape with honest candor, yet still remains positive and upbeat. You'll see what a survivor she is in the face of this terrible experience. She is also a tough cookie and shrewd businesswoman when dealing with the Hollywood sharks and users. I miss her show, but have enjoyed re-reading this delightful biography. If you can't find a copy of this out-of-print book, buy the audio book. Hearing Fran narrate the story in her own voice will bring triple the laughs!	2001-04-05
US	52792973	R1STIHO07OD5RA	0061095508	656091385	Miss America	Books	5	24	28	N	N	More introspective than &quot;Private Parts&quot; but STILL FUNNY!	I thought &quot;Private Parts&quot; was funnier, but this book is different--it is more introspective but still has many hilarious moments. The hysterical chapter on Stern's meeting with Michael Jackson is definitely worth the price of this book alone. He trashes Jackson thoroughly, asking the question no one dares to ask: &quot;If you love children so much, where are the girls?&quot; I kept reading this chapter over and over again. What I like about Howard Stern is that he is not afraid to tell the truth. He is not awed by celebrities and doesn't hesitate to shred them apart when they deserve it. He is great at exposing celebrity hypocrisy and hype. Another incredibly funny account is Stern's experience with cybersex and meeting his cybermates in person. The language is foul, vulgar and crude in this book, but if you can get beyond that, you'll realize what an incredibly brilliant and funny man Stern is. Even the way he uses typefaces in this book effectively conveys his feelings to the reader and makes what he says twice as funny. If you're offended by graphic language, I wouldn't recommend this book. But if you have a biting, satirical, twisted sense of humor, you'll enjoy this book immensely.	2001-04-05
US	52792973	R2IZKB3GSLZQD5	0671038877	741812294	The Long Program: Skating Toward Life's Victories	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Positive, Classy, and an Inspiring Read for Everybody	Positive and upbeat, this delightful biography could only come from somebody like Peggy Fleming, a skating icon and national treasure. Her writing is honest, candid, and refreshingly unpretentious. What I like about this book is that it is written in Peggy's voice--you feel as if she is actually talking to you. Even if you're not a skating fan, you'll enjoy this book enormously.	2001-03-28
US	52792973	R3SC7V138XWIKF	0553571362	76111623	Tara Lipinski: Triumph on Ice	Books	2	7	7	N	N	Great Book for the 9-12 year olds and Younger	Although this book is aimed at the 9-12 age group, it is actually written for Tara's younger fans with its large print, double spacing and limited vocabulary. Like most children's books, it is bright, cheery, and very  positive. It makes for a great &quot;read aloud&quot; book especially for  parents with all those exclamation points.<br />It seems many reviewers feel  the book is too fluffy or childish, but after all, it is marketed as a  children's book, not something for readers over 12 years of age. It reads  more like a fan magazine, and if you're looking for a book with more detail  and depth on Ms. Lipinski, read Christine Brennan's somewhat biased account  of Tara in &quot;Edge of Glory&quot;, also available at Amazon.com. (Note:  Brennan is not a Tara fan.)<br />My only gripe with &quot;Triumph on Ice&quot;  was the writing style. In an effort to capture Tara's youthful enthusiasm  and her confident attitude, co-writer Emily Costello overdoes it and Tara  comes off sounding rather conceited and full of herself. Given Tara's busy  schedule during the time this book was published, I doubt that she even  penned a single word. It sounds more like Emily Costello wrote this book  based on taped phone interviews with Tara.<br />As one reviewer said,  hopefully Ms. Lipinski will rewrite this book. Personally, I would like to  see Ms. Lipinski actually write a more detailed and in-depth autobiography  after she has matured and has experienced more of what life has to offer.	2000-04-21
US	52792973	R1PNT5CE5OIYBY	0553571362	76111623	Tara Lipinski: Triumph on Ice	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Great book for kids ages 9-12!	This is a children's book and the writing/vocabulary is definitely aimed at the 9-12 year old market, with its large print, double spacing, and exclamation points. So if you're over the age of 12 and looking for a more in-depth autobiography, you'll be disappointed. The book is cheery,  lightweight, and designed to entertain Tara's young fans. It is also a good  &quot;read aloud&quot; book because parents will have fun with all those  exclamation points.<br />I don't think this book was ever marketed as a book  for the 12 and older crowd, so I'm a bit puzzled at previous reviews  complaining that the book is &quot;childish&quot; because after all, it is  a children's book.<br />My real criticism lies with the co-author Emily  Costello and other parties involved in the creation of this book. Given Ms.  Lipinski's busy schedule at the time this book was published, I doubt that  she even penned one word. Ms. Lipinski has always been very confident in  herself and perhaps she is justified, given all that she has accomplished.  But in an effort to reflect Tara's confident attitude and her youth  enthusiasm, co-author Emily Costello overdid it and made Tara sound  conceited, self-serving and full of herself. Maybe I shouldn't be so hard  on Ms. Costello's writing...perhaps this book is more of a product of  Tara's Publicity Grabbing/Media Hungry Parents and Agent rather than Ms.  Costello's.<br />Hopefully Tara will hire a new team of writers/editors and  actually write a more in-depth and mature autobiography once she becomes an  adult and has experienced more in life than just figure skating.	2000-04-20
US	52792973	R1GBFKSF7FBG69	0684841282	800942881	Edge of Glory: The Inside Story of the Quest for Figure Skating's Olympic Gold Medals	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Part New, Part Rehash	I read Brennan's first book, &quot;Inside Edge&quot; and enjoyed it immensely, so I eagerly bought this one, hoping it to be the same. While the book is entertaining and informative regarding the buildup to the 1998  Olympics, half of the book is simply a rehash or the same information that  was from her first book. She even borrows the same phrases from her first  book for this one. That's either laziness on her part or an attempt to  plump up the size of the book. She could have easily focused on the lead up  to the 1998 Olympics and still have a substantial book.  I also found her  to be more one-sided and biased in this book.  While I am not an ardent  Lipinski fan, I felt that Brennan was trying to diminish Tara's Olympic  accomplishment by portraying Tara and her parents in a most unflattering  light. While Team Tara is pretty obnoxious, it was unnecessary for Brennan  to constantly take potshots at them. I also detested the way Brennan glibly  referred to pairs skater Elena Berenzhnaya as &quot;Skate In The  Head&quot;. Mean-spirited references like this, along with one-sided Tara  trashing diminish Brennan's writing and brings this book down to the level  of a snippy supermarket tabloid.	2000-02-16
US	52792973	R28NBF3IOG19WN	0789301423	555989576	Totally Tara: An Olympic Journal	Books	2	3	6	N	Y	More writing is needed	This is a Tara Lipinski picture book, and that's about it.  Picture books are for small children.  Seems to me the writer was too lazy to actually write about her or perhaps he thought Tara's fan don't know how to read or  don't care to read?  Tara's fans deserve better. This book would have been  excellent if there had been more written, informative details about her  quest for Olympic gold along with the beautiful photos rather than the  simplistic dribble that was written.	2000-02-15
US	52792973	R29RAPAYYV1MP5	0312970129	332833677	If Loving You is Wrong	Books	5	18	21	N	N	More accurate &amp; thorough than the TV Movie	This well-written book thoroughly examines the Mary Kay LeTourneau scandal from all sides. To me, the TV movie was too Pro-LeTourneau and presented an extremely flattering depiction of a complex woman who was sweet, caring,  endearingly scatterbrained yet conceited, snobbish, selfish and delusional.  The book examines all aspects of Mary's personality, good and bad. At times  the reader will want to club LeTourneau on the head for her incredible  stupidity and blatant disregard for the law and how her actions would  affect her children and her teaching career. BUT--at the same time, the  reader will also feel immense sympathy and pity for Mary, given her  terribly dysfunctional family life and loveless marriage. One of the  saddest things the author pointed out is how Letourneau's ex-attorneys and  Vili's family are trying to make money off of this entire affair by selling  Vili's &quot;Story&quot; to the  tabloids and TV talk shows. One of the  most chilling quotes was from  a fellow inmate of Mary's as saying,  &quot;She [Mary] kept saying that Vili was working on getting her out of  here...I wouldn't count on Vili for anything. He's just a kid...As long as  she's in here [prison], she's worth something to them. Sad isn't it? Isn't  she something more than a way to make money?&quot; One can only shudder of  the media circus the lawyers and family will try to generate should Mary be  allowed to marry Vili once she is released from prison.	2000-02-15
US	52792973	R3BGWGICD8BRQG	0446395315	187965919	C'mon, Get Happy: Fear and Loathing on the Partridge Family Bus	Books	4	9	11	N	Y	Blunt, Frank and Honest	Cassidy does not hold back in telling his story. Blunt, frank, and sometimes searingly honest, David tells all. Especially interesting was how he and his agent were tricked out of millions of dollars due to a  misleading contract. I like the fact that Cassidy and his co-author wrote  the book in his own voice. When you read it, it's like David is telling you  his story, rather than having a sanitized version written in perfect prose  by a ghost writer. It's a definite must-read for all Cassidy fans. My only  criticism is that David wrote about his Partridge Family years in great  detail, but glossed over his post-Partridge years. Hopefully he'll consider  doing a fuller autobiography.	2000-02-15
