US	52797417	R1KXNLJJ8V6RC6	0934977135	409678675	The Catholic Peace Tradition	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	A heritage many of us (alas!) try real hard to forget	Ron Musto's _The Catholic Peace Tradition_, which I first read almost ten years ago, comes across even better the second time around.  Beginning with biblical understandings of peace, this history traces the development of Christian ideals of peacemaking, the peaceable kingdom, and the ethic of love and justice from the earliest days of the Church to the end of the twentieth century.  Musto's book is an absolutely essential resource for anyone in the religious peace movement.  Encyclopediac, eminently readable, and inspiring:  it's a wonderful book.<br /><br />One of the most exciting aspects of Musto's treatment is his argument that the Church was revolutionary from day one, subverting the standard pax Romana of its day--a coercive, negative peace that has clear parallels to pax Americana today--and that the early Christians were systematic in their opposition to violent and unjust political and social systems.  But the opposition was always one of active nonviolence that sought conversion rather than conquest.  Musto has something to say to those skeptics today who think that active nonviolence is ineffective.  The peacemaking tactics of early Christians, who refused to respond to force with force, actually confused and ultimately overcame the Roman Empire.  The first velvet revolution occurred well before the twentieth century.<br /><br />Would that those of us who call ourselves Christians today would rediscover the radical, revolutionary character of Jesus' message!  How different the world could be if we took His message of peace and love as seriously as we ought.	2004-09-18
US	52797417	R2R948F9TB45PN	1400063523	567524678	INTELLIGENCE MATTERS: The CIA, the FBI, Saudi Arabia, and the Failure of America's War on Terror	Books	5	146	156	N	N	America is hard to find	I spent an entire night reading this one.  It simply boggles the imagination.  I can't think of another sitting senator who's ever written such a book.  Graham, who has served on the Senate Intelligence Committee for 10 years and chaired it for 18 months, contends that there's a Saudi Arabian connection to 9/11 that the Bush whitehouse is deliberately concealing.<br /><br />Just one of many examples:  it seems that a retired Saudi professor in California was enlisted by the FBI as a paid informant to keep tabs on Saudis in his area.  Two of the 9/11 hijackers boarded with him.  But when the Senate Intelligence Committee subpoenaed the FBI for information relayed by the professor, the White House ordered the FBI to refuse to give the info on the grounds of 'national security.'<br /><br />From beginning to end, the White House has blocked public information about the Saudi connection to terrorism.  Graham documents this bizarre resistance, and speculates that the reasons for it are complex.  At least two factors play heavily:  the national alliance with Saudi Arabia since WWII, and the oil dependency upon which that relation is built; and the Bush dynasty's personal relationship with the Saudi ruling family.<br /><br />A chilling account of official misinformation.  If even half of what Senator Graham says is correct, the country we now live in is different from the country we lived in four years ago.	2004-09-09
US	52797417	R1QGRRGFJ95PZO	0393047598	35486526	Ramblin' Man: The Life and Times of Woody Guthrie	Books	5	20	20	N	Y	The guy behind the folk hero	Ed Cray's new biography goes a long way toward clearing up some of the hagiographic fog that's collected around Guthrie since his long illness and death.  The romantic picture of Guthrie is that he was an artistically restless drifter who threw in his lot with the farmers and laborers of the Depression era.  There's some truth to that picture.  Guthrie undoubtedly was a good poet and wrote some good songs and prose (although his skills as a performer were uneven), was extremely restless, and seems to have had a genuine concern for the poor.  But these bare facts only scratch the surface of his complexity.  He was also a self-indulgent tomcat who took little responsibility for his many children; a prima dona performer who frequently insisted doing things his way or no way; a person whose idiosyncracies and freeloading perpetually tried the patience of his friends and acquaintances (see, for example, Cray's account of Woody's refusal to carry his weight when he lived in the Almanac Singers cooperative); and a chronic mythmaker, in both his memoir and his tales, when it came to his relations with the working class.  In the eyes of many (although certainly not all), there apparently was a charm to him that overrode his blemishes.  But the blemishes are still there.<br /><br />In a curious way, the people who come across as the real heroes of this biography are the less celebrated types such as Pete Seeger and Will Geer, both victims of the McCarthy witchhunt, and Marjorie Greenblatt Mazia, Arlo's mom and Guthrie's second wife, who nursed Woody during the final years, long after they were divorced.  Compared to them, Woody both lived a pretty comfortable life and was less committed to the farmers and laborers he sang about.  Touchingly, it was these same people whose loyalty to Guthrie helped make him into one of America's folk heroes after his death.	2004-08-18
US	52797417	R2YNRPTI3O6X8V	074325547X	828250107	Plan of Attack	Books	5	330	370	N	N	A private war	Woodward's new book, based on interviews with 75 White House insiders--including the President--is a chilling example of what happens when the Chief Executive of the most powerful country in the world decides he's going to war--or, as Condoleezze Rice puts it, engages in &quot;coercive diplomacy.&quot;<br />According to Woodward, Bush decided as early as November 2001 to wage war against Iraq, and diverted several hundred millions of dollars from the Congressional Afghanistan campaign appropriation to develop war plans.  None of the inner circle except Rice was informed of the President's plans.  He told Woodward that he didn't feel the need to discuss the plans because he knew his people were on board.  Desperate for a way to sell the war to the American public, Bush pressed George Tenet for assurances that Saddam Hussein possessed weapons of mass destruction.  Tenet gave the thumbs-up (himself, no doubt, feeling pressure to provide the answer Bush wanted), and the war was just a matter of time.  Whenever counterevidence to Tenet's insistence that Saddam had weapons of mass destruction showed up--as with Hans Blix's UN reports--senior advisors to the President accused the authors of the reports of deliberate deception.<br />One of the surprising themes in Woodward's book is just how intent George Bush was on waging war with Iraq.  The story on the street, of course, is that Bush was manipulated into war by his senior advisors.  But if Woodward is correct, Bush played this one himself.  He was undoubtedly influenced by people like Cheny and Rumsfeld, but he made the decision himself.  He wanted a war, and he got it.<br />This book deserves to be read alongside other recent ones:  John Dean's _Worse than Watergate, for example, or Ron Suskind's _Price of Loyalty_.  Thought the imperial presidency died with Richard Nixon's resignation?  Think again.	2004-04-19
US	52797417	R34F5R6D1X5F2M	0472089641	631997741	Women and War	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A picture IS worth a thousand words	This is an absolutely stunning collection of photographs that explore the effects of war upon the women of the world.  Snapped in Africa, Asia, the Americas, Europe, and the Middle East, Matthew's cameos evoke fear, rage, determination, eros, absurdity, horror, humor, despair, hope.<br />The cover offers a photo of a young Ethiopian freedom fighter hoisting a rifle over her shoulders.  Her hips are askew, an ammunition belt draped around them.  There's something uncannily innocent about the image; one could easily imagine that the young woman is dressed in the latest punk fashion and on her way to a club.  But open the book to the first full-page photograph inside the covers, and Matthews quickly disabuses us of any urge to romanticize war.  The photo is an in-your-face portrait of Phuong, an eight-year-old Vietnamese girl who was born without eyes because her mother was poisoned years earlier by Agent Orange.<br />The rest of the photos follow this initial template of drawing stark contrasts between images of beauty and images of horror.  One of the most memorable contrasts is midway through the book.  One page shows stacks and stacks of weapons.  The opposing page shows stacks and stacks of human bones, remains of genocide victims.<br />The text is minimal.  In a book such as this, the photographs should speak for themselves.  Trust me:  they do.	2004-04-06
US	52797417	R31NQ1SA5K2ZYO	0715157647	860470103	For Such a Time as This: A Renewed Diaconate in the Church of England	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	An honest look at a perplexing issue	Although a bit repetitious in some places and somewhat obstruse in others (for example, this affirmation of the Pauline doctrine of the Mystical Body [p. 23]:  &quot;A trinitarian theology fo the Church will speak of the oneness of the Church not as a homogeneous unity, but as a differentiated oneness of distinctive persons-in-relation who disover their particularity in active relationships of giving and receiving&quot;), this book is an honest attempt to wrestle with a vexing problem.  That problem, simply stated, is what to do with the permanent diaconate.  Is it a distinctive Holy Order, or is it simply an expression of what all baptized Christians are called to?  The authors of this study argue that it is a bona fide Holy Order, and then wrestle with the next obvious question: what is its essential characteristic?<br />The merits of the analysis offered in _For Such Time as This_ are many.  The authors point out that one of the strengths of the diaconate is its malleability--its ability to adapt in the face of the changing needs of society and the Church in order to serve as a connection between the Gospel and humanity.  This means that the specific ministry associated with the diaconate isn't set in stone.  Following the recent philological analysis of &quot;diakonos&quot; performed by J.N. Collins, the authors suggest that this ministry should be understood as &quot;responsible agency on behalf of a person in authority [which involves] the fulfilling of a vital task.&quot; (p. 32)  Deacons are bearers of a message, ambassadors for Christ, and servants.<br />But all Christians are called to &quot;diakonos.&quot;  So what's distinctive about the diaconate?  According to the authors, a deacon is a &quot;living icon of Christ,&quot; &quot;a sign of what the Church is called to be&quot; who thereby can &quot;model, encourage and coordinate the diaconal ministry of the [entire] people of God.&quot;  A deacon is &quot;an ecclesial sign, embodying a truth about the whole Church and about all its ministries.&quot; (p 36)  All Christians, lay as well as ordained, are called to &quot;diakonia.&quot;  This commission is sacramentally expressed in the Order of deacon.<br />Much work still remains to be done in order to flesh out this sacramental understanding of the permanent diaconate, to understand what the present-day Church and society most needs from deacons, and to coordinate lay ministry and the diaconate.  But _For Such Time as This_, a study commissioned by the Church of England, is a good beginning.  Highly recommended for anyone feeling a call to the diaconate.whole Church and about all its ministries.&quot; (p 36)  All Christians, lay as well as ordained, are called to &quot;diakonia.&quot;  This commission is sacramentally expressed in the Order of deacon.<br />Much work still remains to be done in order to flesh out this sacramental understanding of the permanent diaconate, to understand what the present-day Church and society most needs from deacons, and to coordinate lay ministry and the diaconate.  But _For Such Time as This_, a study commissioned by the Church of England, is a good beginning.  Highly recommended for anyone feeling a call to the diaconate.	2004-04-04
US	52797417	R1JRE0RYY6JVN0	0385477848	123992730	God Has a Dream: A Vision of Hope for Our Time	Books	5	21	23	N	Y	Essence of Tutu	No one familiar with the writings of Archbishop Tutu will find anything new in this little book.  Its value lies in the fact that it's a marvelous distillation of what Tutu has preached and practiced over his lifetime of reflection, prayer, and ministry.  Accordingly, the book is a perfect primer for anyone new to Tutu.  But it's also a convenient and eloquent summary for those who know and love his thought.  For both audiences, the essays are perfect occasions for lectio divina.<br />Although the book's themes are ones that Tutu has worked and reworked for years now--the communitarianism of &quot;ubuntu,&quot; the rainbow people of God, the value of redemptive suffering, the collaboration of God and the people of God, the importance of recognizing and accepting the astounding fact that God loves everyone equally and unconditionally, forgiveness and reconciliation--there is a clarity to their expression here that is really quite breath-taking.  Tutu, like Henri Nouwen before him, has always had the ability to convey profound truths in simple, economic terms.  But he's raised the art to its finest form in _God Has a Dream_.  As a consequence, the careless reader might breeze through the volume without realizing its depth.<br />Let me recommend this book along with Michael Battle's wonderful recent book-length analysis of Tutu's theology of &quot;ubuntu.&quot;  Tutu has much to offer the twenty-first century, which already seems light years away from practicing the love that this South African archbishop preaches.	2004-04-04
US	52797417	RD08D40FMIZS5	0472089641	631997741	Women and War	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A picture IS worth thousands of words	This is an absolutely stunning collection of photographs that explore the effects of war upon the women of the world.  Snapped in Africa, Asia, the Americas, Europe, and the Middle East, Matthew's cameos evoke fear, rage, determination, sensuality, absurdity, horror, humor, despair, hope.<br />The cover offers a photo of a young Ethiopian freedom fighter hoisting a rifle over her shoulder, hips askew and drapped with an ammunition belt.  There's somethng uncannily sensual about the image--graceful, seductive--that speaks, perhaps, to our fascination in the West with violence and sex.  But open the book to the first full page photograph  inside the covers, and Matthew quickly disabuses one of any urge to romanticize or sensualize war.  The photo is an in-your-face portrait of Phuong, an eight-year-old Vietnamese girl who was born without eyes because her mother had been poisoned years earlier by Agent Orange.<br />The rest of the photos follow this template of stark contrasts between beauty and horror.  One of the most memorable contrasts is midway through the book.  One pages shows stacks and stacks of weapons.  The facing page shows stacks and stacks of human bones, remains of genocide victims.<br />The text is minimal, as it should be in a book like this.  The photographs should speak for themselves.  Trust me:  they do.	2004-04-01
US	52797417	R173C59XGKPG8E	0472089641	631997741	Women and War	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A picture IS worth thousands of words	This is an absolutely stunning collection of photographs that explore the effects of war upon the women of the world.  Snapped in Africa, Asia, the Americas, Europe, and the Middle East, Matthew's cameos evoke fear, rage, determination, sensuality, absurdity, horror, humor, despair, hope.  <br />The cover offers a photo of a young Ethiopian freedom fighter hosting a rifle over her shoulder, hips askew, with an ammunition belt drapped around them.  There's something uncannily sensual about the image--graceful, seductive--that speaks, perhaps, to our fascination in the West with violence and sex.  But open the book to the first full page photograph inside the covers, and Matthew quickly disabuses one of any urge to romanticize of sensualize war.  The photo is an in-your-face portrait of Phuong, an eight-year-old Vietnamese girl who was born without eyes because her mother was poisoned by Agent Orange years earlier.<br />The rest of the photos follow this initial template of starkly contrasts between beauty and horror.  One of the most memorable contrasts is midway through the book.  One page shows stacks and stacks of weapons.  The other shows stacks and stacks of human bones, remains of genocide victims.  <br />The text is minimal, as it should be in a book such as this.  The photographs should speak for themselves.  Trust me:  they do.	2004-03-31
US	52797417	R34BW7VBDD25I7	0674013905	925148876	The Holy Grail: Imagination and Belief	Books	5	42	43	N	Y	The Holy Grail as a key to self-identity	Richard Barber begins this magisterial study of the Holy Grail archetype with these words:  &quot;The Grail is a mysterious and haunting image, which crosses the borders of fiction and literature and which, for eight centuries, has been a recurrent ideal in Western literature&quot;--and, as he makes clear in the book, in Western art, religion, spirituality, and psychology as well.  Almost all of us have heard about the Grail (especially recently in all the hype over Dan Brown's thriller &quot;The Da Vinci Code&quot;), but almost none of us really know much about it.  This is too bad, because the Grail legend is replete with meaning that gestures at the very core of who we are as humans.<br />The merits of Barber's book are many, but two in particular stand out.  In the first place, he provides an exhaustive and entertaining discussion of the origins of the Grail legend, the various authors (such as Chretien de Troyes, Robert de Boron, and Wolfram von Eschenbach) who popularized the legend in the Middle Ages, and the symbolism behind the legends--how it ties in, for example, with the Eucharist.  Secondly, he reflects in insightful and sometimes profound ways on just what the Grail legend means to us today, tracing the modern Grail expressions that abound in art, cinema (yes, &quot;Monty Python and the Holy Grail&quot; is discussed!), and literature.  Barber is especially good at discussing the human longing for perfection and wholeness that the Grail quest symbolizes, and in speculating on why the Grail archetype holds such strong attraction. Part of the key to understanding its appeal lies in the fact that it is a product of the interplay between two essential human characteristics:  belief and imagination (hence the book's subtitle).  The proper hiding place of the Grail, in other words, is in the liminal space between imagination and belief.  In focusing on archetypes such as the Grail, humans explore depths of themselves that otherwise might go unnoticed<br />The book is wonderfully illustrated--as well it should be, since the Grail has been such a common motif in art--with intertextual black and white reproductions and a center section of color photographs which are really quite breathtaking in their beauty.  If you're a long-devoted Grail enthusiast, or if you're just beginning the pilgrimage and want a resource that can help you understand, for example, just who the heck the Fisher King is, this is the book for you.book is wonderfully illustrated--as well it should be, since the Grail has been such a common motif in art--with intertextual black and white reproductions and a center section of color photographs which are really quite breathtaking in their beauty.  If you're a long-devoted Grail enthusiast, or if you're just beginning the pilgrimage and want a resource that can help you understand, for example, just who the heck the Fisher King is, this is the book for you.	2004-03-27
US	52797417	R10SW4CMO6ISIR	0300097085	269902344	The Spirit of Early Christian Thought: Seeking the Face of God	Books	5	62	67	N	Y	Remembering who we are	Robert Wilken has given us a beautiful book.  In the preface, he mentions that he originally intended the book to be a sequel to his earlier excellent _The Christians as the Romans Saw Them_.  The first book presented the prosecution's case against early Christianity, as it were, and the new one would present the defense.  But he eventually dropped the idea, because as he delved deeper into the writings of the early Church Fathers, he realized that their thinking was much too independent of Greco-Roman thought to be interpreted merely as a response to it.  So the new book emerged.<br />One of the most fascinating and instructive points of Professor Wilken's new book is his claim that Harnack and Co. were wrong to suppose that early Christian thought was thoroughly Hellenized by cultural osmosis.  This of course has been the standard way of thinking since the mid-nineteenth century.  But in fact, as Wilken's goes to pains to demonstrate, just the converse is true:  Christianity dramatically influenced Hellenistic culture.  It was Christianity that radically transformed the secular world, not the other way around.<br />Wilken demonstrates that this radical transformation of Greco-Roman culture--which was at the same time, of course, the coming-into-its-own of Christian thought--was never primarily intellectualistic.  Christianity is a religion, not a philosophy.  It stresses love, compassion, service in the world, and worship, and these elements define the parameters and shape the content of early Christian thought.  Wilken works through this claim by examining, chapter by chapter, how the early Christians viewed (for example) worship, the Resurrection, the Trinity, the Passion, and so on.  Chapter 7, on &quot;Faith,&quot; where Wilken explores the connection between knowing and loving, may be the single most beautiful and enlightening discussion in the book.  Also of particular interest are the final two chapters, which deal respectively with the early Church's understanding of the moral and spiritual life.<br />Wilken's book is informative for students of historical theology, but it's also inspiring for those readers who might wish to use it as an opportunity for lectio divina.  Gracefully written, sensitively nuanced, the book is a real pearl.standing of the moral and spiritual life.<br />Wilken's book is informative for students of historical theology, but it's also inspiring for those readers who might wish to use it as an opportunity for lectio divina.  Gracefully written, sensitively nuanced, the book is a real pearl.	2004-03-27
US	52797417	RCZ0F1OCDYH45	0809142422	690780872	Deacons and the Church	Books	5	33	33	N	Y	Diakonia leads to koinonia	The ministry of the permanent diaconate, at least in the Latin West, has been nearly forgotten for almost a thousand years.  It's only during the last couple of generations that the Roman Catholic and Anglican churches have remembered and attempted to revitalize it.  The problem is that our millennium-long amnesia has left us with a lot of questions about the nature of diaconal ministry.  Just what is a deacon?  How does the ministry of a deacon differ from baptismal ministry?  What's the role of the deacon in today's church?  What's the proper relation between deacons and other ordained clergy?<br />These and many other questions beg to be examined in a systematic and reflective manner, and a necessary condition for doing so is to begin to look at the theology and spirituality of deaconal service.  Alas, this hasn't been done too often up to now.  Analyses of the diaconate have tended to focus (to use Cummings' distinction) on either the &quot;power&quot; of the diaconate (its function) or the &quot;history&quot; of the diaconate.  As a consequence, the Holy Order of deacons still leaves many people in the church confused:  many bishops don't know what to do with deacons, priests sometimes see them as nuisances, and parishoners tend to think of them as assistant priests.<br />Owen Cummings' book is the first to begin to think about the permanent diaconate from a theological perspective.  Although written from the vantage point of the Roman Catholic tradition, it is invaluable for other Christian traditions (such as my own, Anglicanism) that ordains deacons.  Cummings examines the history of the diaconate and its renewal in the twentieth century.  This is pretty standard stuff.  Much more importantly, however, is his attempt to sketch out a kenotic spirituality of the diaconate by the wonderful device of interpreting Jesus as a deacon.  Also extremely good is his discussion of the &quot;dysfunctional&quot; deacon:  the pitfalls (for example, clericalism, ritualism, anti-intellectualism) that deacons can fall into.<br />All in all, an excellent effort.  There's still much prayer and work to be done in reawakening to the full meaning and promise of the permanent diaconate, but Cummings has gotten us off to a good start.  Heartily recommended., anti-intellectualism) that deacons can fall into.<br />All in all, an excellent effort.  There's still much prayer and work to be done in reawakening to the full meaning and promise of the permanent diaconate, but Cummings has gotten us off to a good start.  Heartily recommended.	2004-03-27
US	52797417	R1GYZ9NTSA00VN	0664222412	202583261	Pastoral Theology in the Classical Tradition	Books	5	27	28	N	Y	Clue for Clergy:  Read one &quot;old&quot; book for every &quot;new&quot; book	Andrew Purves has given us a marvelous little book on pastoral theology.  His approach is based on three assumptions.  The first is that every pastor needs also to be a theologian--that is, needs to be in a reflective and prayerful dialogue with the doctrine that grounds Christian ministry.  But pastoral training in recent years--and this is the second assumption--has focused so heavily on psychological theory that traditional theological underpinnings have been underemphasized.  (This isn't to say that psychological training isn't good--of course it is!--but merely that the temptation is for it to overshadow anything of theological substance.)  Happily, however (here's the third assumption) noncontemporary theological sources have a great deal to teach us about pastoring.  Purves follows C.S. Lewis' assumption that books from the past are helpful because they challenge the frameworked assumptions that we just naturally take for granted--hence Lewis' rule-of-thumb that every reading of a new book should be complemented by the reading of an old one.<br />In keeping with his three assumptions, Purvis seeks to reinvigorate pastoral theology by reexamining the thought of five &quot;traditional&quot; theologians--Gregory Nazianzus, John Chrysostom, Gregory the Great, Martin Bucer, and Richard Baxter--who offer refreshing insights into pastoral roles, responsibilities, and identities.  Purves admits that other theologians could've been selected (Luther on religious doubt, for example, or Augustine on marriage), but he thinks the five he focuses on are both representative of the tradition and instructive.<br />Purves' book is a wonderful combination of theory and application, and it reawakens in the reader (or at least in this reader) an appreciation of just how pertinent ancient, medieval, and early reformation theologians are to the nitty-gritty of daily pastoral care.  A valuable resource, and highly recommended for every clergyperson who could use a refresher on what it means to be an ordained servant of God.it means to be an ordained servant of God.	2004-03-26
US	52797417	R208UBNWEJVBA9	0764811339	146126470	Called to Serve: A Spirituality for Deacons	Books	1	4	8	N	Y	Indescribably awful	There aren't many books on the vocational diaconate, and nearly none on the spirituality of diaconal ministry.  I was excited, therefore, to learn about Zagano's book (pamphlet, really).  But a reading of it was bitterly disappointing on several counts.<br />In the first place, the pamphlet really says almost nothing about the diaconate, and certainly nothing about diaconal spirituality.  Instead, it says some general things about formation, prayer and daily examen, and confessors and spiritual directors--all totally generic stuff, and not a bit insightful or especially relevant.  Typically, for example, Zagano cites St. John Vianney's pablum about prayer imparting &quot;a kind of serenity and sweetness&quot; that leads to ecstasy (p. 16), but offers no explanation or qualification.<br />In the second place, the pamphlet seems thrown together.  It ends so abruptly that you catch yourself wondering if there are missing pages.  There are no arguments, almost no historical background on the diaconate, no effort to explore the roots and special nature of diaconal ministry.  Everything that's said is vague and platitudinous.<br />Finally (speaking of platitudes), the pamphlet reads as if it were a 1950s pre-Vatican II document.  It's sickly sweet with pietisms (on daily examen, for example:  &quot;Yes, things pop up every evening that we wish we never did or said, but the Ignatian examen essentially begins with a great big 'thank you' for the day.&quot; p. 24) that insult the intelligence and raise question of how any adult in 2004 could tolerate being spoken to in such a condescending way.<br />An embarrassingly bad, unspeakably bad, shamefully bad, effort.  It deserves minus-stars.  Avoid it!	2004-03-26
US	52797417	R8B8Y3667OAG7	0375506160	802201377	Mountains Beyond Mountains: Healing the World: The Quest of Dr. Paul Farmer	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	We're all called to be healers	Haiti is one of the poorest countries in the world.  The per capita income there is around $1 (US) a day.  It has the worst health statistics of any nation in the Western hemisphere.  Political and social unrest are ripping the country apart.  AIDS, tuberculosis, and hunger-related diseases are epidemic.  And for some reason--could it be because there's nothing to be gained or feared from Haiti--the world's powers don't seem to care.<br />Kidder's book tells the story of one man who does care:  Dr. Paul Farmer, the founder and energizing spirit of Zanmi Lasante Hospital. Farmer tends to the people of Haiti, and unashamedly begs from those of us who live in wealthy, developed countries to do so.  It's astounding what he does with minimal medical supplies.  He brings life back to those who have almost lost it.  He creates hope.<br />The standing joke at Zanmi Lasante Hospital is that each patient is required to pay 80 cents for treatment--but children, women, the destitute, anyone who's seriously ill, and anyone who can't afford it, are all exempted.<br />Think about that.  Physical and emotional healing is given out with nothing expected in return.  Care is given not because there's something in it for the giver, but because that's simply what ought to be done.  It's the decent thing to do.  If more of us had come to the same place that Paul Farmer is at, the world's healing would be a reality rather than a distant dream.<br />Please read this book, roll up your sleeves, and join the effort.  Become a healer.	2004-03-25
US	52797417	R3GGQPYCY3EUAS	0195123867	949871185	Approaches to Peace: A Reader in Peace Studies	Books	4	22	24	N	Y	One of the best, but still falls a bit short	I've used David Barash's _Approaches to Peace_ several times in my college classes on peace and justice.  This is unusual in itself, because I rarely use anthologies, preferring instead to go straight to the original sources themselves.  I like Barash's approach, though, because it tries to be inclusive as possible.<br />The anthology begins by looking at the definitions and possible causes of war, moves on to analyses of how to prevent war (negative peace), then to considerations of how to create structures of justice that eliminate the necessary conditions for war (positive peace).  The rest of the book is devoted to readings that discuss nonviolence, religious pacifism, and historical peace movements.  All of these general categories are exactly what one would want in a &quot;peace studies&quot; text.<br />The problem is that the readings included in each category aren't always the best (or at least aren't the ones I would've selected).  The single best two sets of readings are in the chapters on positive peace and nonviolence.  The single worst (and I do mean *worst*!) set of readings are when Barash deals with religious pacifism (it's as if he feels uncomfortable in this arena).  In the section on peace movements, Vaclav Havel's essay is the single best piece, but one wonders why it  (and perhaps the entire chapter) doesn't serve as the prologue to the anthology.<br />Still, no anthology perfectly pleases everyone.  Barash's is the best one out there I've discovered.  Perhaps some changes will be made in a second edition.  Regardless, I highly recommend this book.	2004-03-25
US	52797417	R3P8YRSJINVNAR	1851681965	182608855	Mysticism: The Nature and Development of Spiritual Consciousness	Books	5	52	53	N	N	Blessed Evelyn!	Evelyn Underhill is that most wonderful of combinations:  a remarkably thorough student of mysticism, an intensely religious woman who had mystical tendencies herself, and a beautiful writer who can evoke the wonder of the mystical vision by the similes and metaphors she uses.  An earlier reviewer thinkes her prose is &quot;impenetrable.&quot;  A strange evaluation, in my judgment, of a writer who is both poetic and pellucid.  Here's a typical (and splendid!) example of her wordcraft:  &quot;By false desires and false thoughts man has built up for himself a false universe:  as a mollusc, by the deliberate and persistent absorption of lime and rejection of all else, can build up for itself a hard shell which shuts it from the external world, and only represents in a distorted and unrecognisable form the ocean from which it was obtained.  This hard and wholly unnutritious shell, this one-sided secretion of the surface-consciousness,  makes as it were a little cave of illusion for each separate soul.&quot;  (pp. 198-99)<br />It must be admitted that some parts of Underhill's classic haven't aged as well as others.  Her chapters on mysticism and vitalism and mysticism and psychology, for example, are dated (especially the former).  But her analysis in the second part of the book of the soul's journey to God, beginning with purgation and continuing through to mystical unification, still remains one of the best single treatments going.  Underhill has a masterful grasp of western (Christian and, to a lesser extent, Jewish and Moslem) mysticism, and reading her just for the quotes from the great spiritual masters would be a delight in itself.<br />Don't sell her short.  Doing so deprives you of the great pleasure of her company.	2004-03-25
US	52797417	R39NFUGVMQP7LE	038549114X	282057521	The Faith: A History of Christianity	Books	3	19	25	N	N	Popping the clutch	To read this book is rather like riding in a stick-shift car whose driver is used to an automatic:  the smooth sailing is punctuated with sudden jumps and jolts that sometimes leave one breathless.  What I mean is that Moynahan's history has some startling gaps in it, as if he's popped the clutch and either jumped ahead of where he should be or landed someplace he really shouldn't be.<br />There's almost no treatment in this book, for example, of the Orthodox tradition, much less (except for a rather dismal late chapter on &quot;Missions&quot;) of Christianity with a non-Western face.  (I say that the missions chapter is dismal because it's primarily written from the perspective of Western missionaries.)  No more than a page and a half is given to Vatican II.  No consideration is given to recent ecumenical or interfaith developments in Christianity.  And very little discussion of Christian doctrine or theology is included.  Yet how can one write a history of Christianity without a consideration of the evolution of its beliefs?<br />At the same time, an inordinate amount of space is devoted to elements in the history of Christianity that seem tangential.  Is it really necessary, for example, to devote an entire chapter to witch hunts and still another one to Mormonism?  One can't but suspect that the detailed discussions of such topics were motivated at least in part by their popular appeal.<br />None of this is meant to condemn Moynahan's book.  He's taken on a big, probably impossible task.  Read as a quick and spotty survey, his history is okay.  But for those readers who would like a more inclusive portrait, perhaps a work like Jaroslav Pelikan's multi-volumed (and entirely entertaining and accessible) history of Christian doctrine should be considered.	2004-03-25
US	52797417	R277A13XB1I8M	0738200255	834904460	The Heat Is On: The Climate Crisis, The Cover-up, The Prescription	Books	5	34	45	N	Y	Invasion of the weather-snatchers	Coral reefs in the Pacific and Indian Oceans are dying because of rising water temperatures.  Butterflies are migrating northward.  Antarctica is melting.  Northern hemisphere forests are being decimated by climate-related fires and insect infestations.  The Great Plains states are becoming deserts, as are areas of Southern Europe.  Tropical diseases such as malaria and West Nile fever are spreading northwards as temperatures rise.<br />These are all facts that are incontestably documented by science today, and each of them is directly linked to the climate change brought about by global warming.  The earth and its species are in for a tough time in the century ahead.  Extreme weather patterns caused by the heating up of the planet is already creating climatic chaos:  horrible downpours and snow in some areas, rising temperatures and drought in others, hurricanes, tornadoes, forest fires, and so on.  And for the most part it's been caused by the incredibly high rate of fossil fuel carbon dioxide emissions--6 billion tons (and counting) a year.<br />Ross Gelspan argues that the science is clear; most of the world's leading scientists agree that fossil fuels are causing the problem.  The rub is that the oil and coal industries--at $10 trillion, the largest in human history--have an obvious vested interest in convincing the public and lawmakers that global warming is all Chicken Little stuff.  So they fund a handful of dissenting scientists who, like tobacco industry scientists a few years ago, are in the business of convincing the public that global warming is a myth.  Conservative lawmakers have been particularly receptive to their line, and this in turn has affected public policy for the worse.<br />Gelbspan's book is horrifying in its diagnosis of global warming and the extent to which the fossil fuel industry has protected its own interests at the expense of the planet's.  But the book also makes clear that the technology to replace the world's use of fossil fuels already exists, and concludes with a plan of action for weaning ourselves from our oil addictions.<br />Make no mistake about it, however:  things will get worse, and perhaps much worse, before they get better.  We're only beginning to feel the effects of carbon dioxide emissions from 50 years ago.  We've yet to feel the whammy from our current frenzied use.  When we do, God help us.s already exists, and concludes with a plan of action for weaning ourselves from our oil addictions.  <br />Make no mistake about it, however:  things will get worse, and perhaps much worse, before they get better.  We're only beginning to feel the effects of carbon dioxide emissions from 50 years ago.  We've yet to feel the whammy from our current frenzied use.  When we do, God help us.	2004-03-20
US	52797417	R19OSEVV7IB3RR	0631225285	459984789	Christian Theology: An Introduction 3rd Edition	Books	4	69	73	N	Y	A good but sometimes sloppy overview	Alister McGrath has become a publishing industry.  He churns out books and articles, popular as well as scholarly, at a dizzying pace.  His outpouring of words speaks to his evangelical zeal.  He's a man on a mission, intent on revitalizing Anglicanism in particular and Christianity in general.  Whether one totally agrees with his own theological perspective, this is an admirable aim.  Moreover, he carries around an incredibly wealth of theological knowledge.  But the swiftness with which he publishes also makes for a certain amount of sloppiness.  His books tend to be poorly proofed and highly repetitious.<br />The third edition of McGrath's _Christian Theology_ reflects all of these characteristics.  McGrath's target audience is clearly seminarians, the very people he hopes will evangelically enliven the Church.  It is breathtaking in its sweep.  One can't but admire the incredible learning displayed by McGrath.  And it is poorly proofed and at times tediously repetitious.<br />In all fairness to McGrath, the book really does fill a much-needed need for a single-volumed overview of Christian theology that isn't overtly sectarian.  McGrath's book is roughly divided into two sections:  historical and systematic theology.  In the first section, he gives an overview of the historical roots and development of Christian doctrine.  In the second section, he systematically discusses all the topics one would expect, ranging from the Trinity to eschatology.<br />As an Anglican evangelical, McGrath has obviously been terribly influenced by the Reformed tradition, and the authors he most frequently cites in the book are in that camp, from Luther and Calvin to Barth and Moltmann.  But in this edition, he's gone out of his way to also discuss Roman Catholic and Orthodox perspectives.  Granted, the Orthodox perspective is still minimal.  But it is represented.<br />There are some interesting holes in the overview:  for example, process theology is scarcely mentioned, existential theology is limited almost exclusively to Bultmann (Macquarrie and Tillich both receive short shrift), and postmodern theologizing is absent.  These omissions may reflect McGrath's own theological perspective, but they also could reflect the fact that no single person is an authority on everything, and that only so much can be crammed into a single book.<br />The repetitions are less forgiveable.  McGrath prefaces the text by admitting the redundancies, claiming that he's repeated himself at times for those persons who choose to selectively read in the book rather than going straight through it from beginning to end.  But these deliberate pedagogical repetitions to one side, the book is filled with clearly unintended ones.  McGrath will repeat himself not only on the same page, but even in the same paragraph.  But one of dozens of examples:  on the bottom of page 172, McGrath lists the Quadriga, the fourfold mode of interpreting Scripture that was popular in the Middle Ages.  Then, at the top of p 173, he lists them again.<br />It should also be noticed that the first section of the book that deals with historical theology is basically an abridged repetition of a smallish book on historical theology published in 1998 by McGrath.  The book is still in print, and so McGrath is, in a sense, going for a twofer here.<br />Proofing is also sloppy.  Page references are frequently incorrect and there are numerous typos.  All of this suggests that McGrath writes at such whitehot speed that he doesn't edit as well as he might.  And if sloppiness from speed is present in the composition, one worries about parallel sloppiness in the ideas.<br />Still, these are minor caveats.  McGrath has offered a good overview of Christian theology for those who which to learn something about the subject.theology is limited almost exclusively to Bultmann (Macquarrie and Tillich both receive short shrift), and postmodern theologizing is absent.  These omissions may reflect McGrath's own theological perspective, but they also could reflect the fact that no single person is an authority on everything, and that only so much can be crammed into a single book.   <br />The repetitions are less forgiveable.  McGrath prefaces the text by admitting the redundancies, claiming that he's repeated himself at times for those persons who choose to selectively read in the book rather than going straight through it from beginning to end.  But these deliberate pedagogical repetitions to one side, the book is filled with clearly unintended ones.  McGrath will repeat himself not only on the same page, but even in the same paragraph.  But one of dozens of examples:  on the bottom of page 172, McGrath lists the Quadriga, the fourfold mode of interpreting Scripture that was popular in the Middle Ages.  Then, at the top of p 173, he lists them again.<br />It should also be noticed that the first section of the book that deals with historical theology is basically an abridged repetition of a smallish book on historical theology published in 1998 by McGrath.  The book is still in print, and so McGrath is, in a sense, going for a twofer here.<br />Proofing is also sloppy.  Page references are frequently incorrect and there are numerous typos.  All of this suggests that McGrath writes at such whitehot speed that he doesn't edit as well as he might.  And if sloppiness from speed is present in the composition, one worries about parallel sloppiness in the ideas.<br />Still, these are minor caveats.  McGrath has offered a good overview of Christian theology for those who which to learn something about the subject.	2004-03-20
US	52797417	R1KF6XMEV18QI6	052147695X	88272094	The Cambridge Companion to Christian Doctrine (Cambridge Companions to Religion)	Books	4	25	27	N	Y	New wine, new wineskins	An earlier, self-described &quot;very conservative evangelical&quot; reviewer criticized the essays in this collection for their &quot;questionable&quot; liberal conclusions.  It's curious how different people can read the same text and arrive at different conclusions.  My own reading of this anthology is that the essays strive (perhaps overly much, in fact) to stay in the middle of the road.  Few people would describe Robert Jenson or Stanley Hauerwas, two of the contributors, as &quot;liberal&quot; theologians.  They're certainly adventurous and prophetic, but also utterly orthodox (this isn't meant, by the way, as criticism).<br />Perhaps what displeased the earlier reviewer is this:  _The Cambridge Companion to Christian Doctrine_ takes as its working assumption the need of doctrinal theology to walk a fine line between remaining loyal to tradition on the one hand and re-thinking that tradition in light of each new generation's experience on the other.  In the West, we've moved out of the modern into the postmodern era.  Modernist modes of interpreting Christian doctrine cry to be replaced with newer ones that reflect the new postmodern ethos.  Otherwise, the Good News runs the risk of coming across as increasingly irrelevant to too many people.  The contributors to this volume aim to read traditional doctrine against this new background.<br />The essays are divided into two sections.  The first deals with the nature and scope of doctrinal theology and its relationship to nonChristian traditions (Judaism) and the symbols of secular society (the arts).  The second examines several key topics traditionally included in doctrinal or systematic theology:  the trinity, creation, anthropology, sacraments, Christology, pneumatology, eschatology.<br />Geoffrey Wainwright's essay on &quot;The Holy Spirit&quot; is especially noteworthy.  Perhaps the single best essay in the entire collection, it seeks to reawaken the West to theological reflection on the Holy Spirit without falling victim to a &quot;pneumatological hypertrophy&quot; characteristic of, for example, Pentecostalism (p. 289).  Equally worthy of note is Gerard Loughlin's &quot;The Basis and Authority of Doctrine,&quot; which attempts a postmodern reading of that most un-postmodern of doctrines:  authority.  But although of varying quality, none of the articles in the collection are heavy-handed or simplistic.  There are certain gaps in the collection--the editor himself seems uncomfortable that no essay explicitly dealing with the topics of justification and sanctification is included, and on a related note, I worry about the lack of a sustained treatment of grace.  But all in all, a good, through-provoking anthology.hout falling victim to a &quot;pneumatological hypertrophy&quot; characteristic of, for example, Pentecostalism (p. 289).  Equally worthy of note is Gerard Loughlin's &quot;The Basis and Authority of Doctrine,&quot; which attempts a postmodern reading of that most un-postmodern of doctrines:  authority.  But although of varying quality, none of the articles in the collection are heavy-handed or simplistic.  There are certain gaps in the collection--the editor himself seems uncomfortable that no essay explicitly dealing with the topics of justification and sanctification is included, and on a related note, I worry about the lack of a sustained treatment of grace.  But all in all, a good, through-provoking anthology.	2004-03-19
US	52797417	RZG40H8F76X2M	0883442140	426243063	Ecclesiogenesis: The Base Communities Reinvent the Church (English and Portuguese Edition)	Books	5	20	20	N	Y	Church is an event, not a place	Although somewhat barbarously titled, Leonardo Boff's _Ecclesiogenesis_ is one of the most important books written on the Church in the twentieth century.  It deserves to be read by Christians in every denomination.<br />Boff, who was still a Franciscan when he wrote the book, basically challenges the Church to recall and reanimate its apostolic origins.  In the &quot;primitive&quot; Church, there were no hierarchical distinctions between ordained and nonordained.  In fact, ordination as it came to be known didn't exist.  The &quot;laos&quot; were the people of God, and even though individual members took on different functions in keeping with their unique talents (Paul's simile of the body and its parts is appropriate here), everyone was &quot;laity.&quot;  Worshipping communities were small--what we today would call &quot;household churches&quot;--and everyone was encouraged to take responsibility for the community and its works.<br />Over the past two millennia, this household model of Church was deemphasized.  Top-down institutions replaced the bottom-up community.  Ecclesial hierarchies, clear divisions between ordained and nonordained, and excessive authoritarianism became the order of the day, bringing to full fruition the imperial church instigated by the Edict of Milan in the 4th century.  Needless to say, this &quot;sacred&quot; institution frequently allied itself with political and economic powers and principalities, at the expense of precisely those marginalized folks Christ favored<br />The Base Christian Communities of Latin America and Asia, small Christian communities in which the laity take primary responsibility for the worship and deeds of the community, were started to re-empower the laity, to avoid the burden of institutionalization, and to recapture the spirit of Christ's teachings and apostolic Christianity.  Leonardo Boff believes that their example can serve as the catalyst for a worldwide awakening on the part of the Church as to its genuine calling.  In this book, he explores the parameters of this &quot;reinvention&quot; in an exciting and challenging way.<br />In the original Greek, &quot;ecclesia,&quot; the word frequently translated as &quot;church,&quot; NEVER meant a building in which people worshipped.  (The Greek word that designates worship building is &quot;kuriakon.&quot;)  Instead, &quot;ecclesia&quot; ALWAYS meant &quot;an assembly of people&quot;--the event of the people of God, working together, in full and nonhierarchical cooperation, to collaborate with God in the building of the Kingdom.  Boff's wonderful and prophetic book reminds us of this important but sadly forgotten truth.ne calling.  In this book, he explores the parameters of this &quot;reinvention&quot; in an exciting and challenging way.<br />In the original Greek, &quot;ecclesia,&quot; the word frequently translated as &quot;church,&quot; NEVER meant a building in which people worshipped.  (The Greek word that designates worship building is &quot;kuriakon.&quot;)  Instead, &quot;ecclesia&quot; ALWAYS meant &quot;an assembly of people&quot;--the event of the people of God, working together, in full and nonhierarchical cooperation, to collaborate with God in the building of the Kingdom.  Boff's wonderful and prophetic book reminds us of this important but sadly forgotten truth.	2004-03-19
US	52797417	R125RDB6EL6GGF	1566565529	462605189	The New Pearl Harbor: Disturbing Questions About the Bush Administration and 9/11	Books	5	53	57	N	Y	We ignore this book at our peril	I've just spent an entire night and part of a day rereading and rereading Professor Griffin's thoroughly researched, judiciously argued, and incredibly disturbing book.  Griffin takes on the task of investigating the official account of the 9/11 attacks, asking questions that beg to be asked, ferreting out inconsistencies in White House, Pentagon, and State Department reports, analyzing possible scenarios, and asking what kinds of evidence would properly address unanswered questions.<br />Griffin invites the reader to examine two possible explanations to account for the inconsistencies:  the &quot;incompetence&quot; theory and the &quot;complicity&quot; theory.  The former rests on the assumption that stupid mistakes were made both before and after the attack.  The latter rests on the assumption that false official accounts were made about advance notice of the attacks and/or that after-the-fact obstruction of investigations took place.  Griffin's conclusion is that it's reasonable to suppose that complicity rather than incompetence is the more likely explanation, and he painstakingly makes his case by examining five major challenges to the official version of what happened.<br />On the second anniversary of 9/11, Donald Rumsfeld made the shocking public claim that the attacks were really blessings &quot;in disguise&quot; (from the book's forward by Richard Falk).  Rumsfeld's point was that the US was motivated by the attacks to ramp up its military strength; this was the &quot;blessing&quot; he referred to.  But if even part of Griffin's analysis is on the money, the &quot;blessing,&quot; which has led to great subsequent loss of life and expenditures of monies in Afghanistan and Iraq, is built on a deception.<br />A frightening, but not implausible, possibility.	2004-03-17
US	52797417	R328A3HCH2AOSJ	0375423028	138551091	Disarming Iraq	Books	5	60	63	N	N	A sobering assessment	This is a remarkably even-handed discussion of the search for Iraqi weapons of mass destruction and the ensuing Iraq War of 2003.  With the patience of a professor outlining an argument on the board, Blix presents all sides of the issues dispassionately and, so far as I can tell, unpartisanly.<br />Blix originally believed that Saddam possessed weapons of mass destruction, and so he eagerly accepted his assignment to head the UN inspection team.  He and his searchers targeted the areas that international intelligence agencies assured President Bush and Prime Minister Blair were repositories of weapons.  Finding nothing in any of them, Blix began to suspect that both he and the intelligence agencies were mistaken.  Failure to find weapons of mass destruction after the fall of Saddam Hussein further convinced Blix that any such weapons that survived the 1991 Iraq War had been destroyed by 1994.  Saddam had even offered (finally) documentary evident to that effect in February 2003, but it was too late to prevent the war the following month.<br />Why, then, did Saddam refuse for the most part to cooperate with UN inspectors?  Blix surmises that any number of reasons might've contributed to his stubbornness:  pride, a sense of invulnerability, a fear that weapons inspectors were also spies, an unwillingness to accept foreign supervision.  Regardless of the possible reasons, however, Blix is convinced that one of them was NOT that Saddam had anything to hide when it came to weapons of mass destruction.<br />Blix is also convinced that President Bush wouldn't have gone to war had he not been persuaded that Saddam possessed weapons of mass destruction.  The war was no vendetta, says Blix, and so wasn't inevitable.  Had he been allowed a few more months to inspect, he's certain he could've marshalled sufficient evidence to have prevented the war.<br />Blix argues that the fall of Saddam is a good thing, but he also concludes that the balance sheet of the war is still in the negative.  Getting rid of Saddam is a bonus, but it's outweighed so far by the increase in terrorism, the deaths of both civilians and military personnel in Iraq, and the social turmoil that continues in Iraq.  Blix believes that neither the UK nor the US showed sufficient critical judgment in going to war.  His final estimation is that there just weren't reasonable grounds for doing so.<br />A well-documented, excellently-argued book.  Highly recommended.e negative.  Getting rid of Saddam is a bonus, but it's outweighed so far by the increase in terrorism, the deaths of both civilians and military personnel in Iraq, and the social turmoil that continues in Iraq.  Blix believes that neither the UK nor the US showed sufficient critical judgment in going to war.  His final estimation is that there just weren't reasonable grounds for doing so.<br />A well-documented, excellently-argued book.  Highly recommended.	2004-03-16
US	52797417	R1LNR2CRTNFOGB	0060633999	555529494	What Makes Us Catholic: Eight Gifts for Life	Books	4	12	17	N	N	Koinonia	Groome's new book on the Catholic community could also, it seems to me, be a portrait of the ideal 'catholic' community:  that is, the Church, wherever it finds itself, behaving as the koinonia it was intended to be.  The Church is a beloved community, an event more than a place, in which the Holy Spirit unites humans with one another and with God in bonds of love that then radiate outwards to embrace and heal the rest of the world.  In reminding Roman Catholics of their essential witness, Groome has reminded Christians of all denominations of their essential calling.<br />How different the world would be if catholics (Roman and otherwise) took seriously the proclamation that God is present in the world, thereby making the everyday holy and properly eliciting forth from us reverence and awe, a passion for social justice, and such a deep-seated joy in the &quot;little&quot; (sacramental) things of life that our consumerist mania would drop by the way!  Groome's book aims to help us recapture this vision.  His anecdotes, prayers, exercises are helpful rather than maudlin or pietistic.<br />A very good book for Lenten meditation, but an even better one, I suspect, for Pentecost:  what better time to reflect on the true nature of Church and koinonia?  Highly recommended.	2004-03-13
US	52797417	R13WAIAN6ZH87A	0060652381	453295478	A Grief Observed	Books	5	11	12	N	N	CSL comes into his own	For years I've taught this book in an Introduction to Philosophy course, and my admiration for it increases each time.  It's a brutally honest testament in which CSL takes a hard look at his own basic assumptions about life, love, God, Christianity, the world, human relationships.<br />Prior to the horrific trauma chronicled in this book (the loss of his wife), CSL had been what I'd call a puglistic Christian.  His apologetic writings tended (although not exclusively so) to be a bit heavy-handed and simplistic.  Take, for example, his early _The Problem of Pain_.  In that book, CSL offers the standard philosophical arguments that attempt to show that the existence of a loving God is compatible with innocent suffering.  But he seems to have no feel for the tragedy of suffering.  It's a bookish exercise for him, and his ultimate goal is to win an argument.  Many of his books are like that.<br />But not _A Grief Observed_.  Here, for the first time in his published work, CSL comes face to face with a realworld (as opposed to bookish) situation that causes him to reexamine his earlier, perhaps too easy, too glib, Christian faith.  His reflections about the terrible silence of God, the awfulness of loneliness, the feeling of betrayal, the ultimate reawakening of the sense that perhaps he isn't adrift in an indifferent universe:  all of these are utterly authentic, and as such go far beyond his earlier work.<br />CSL's faith after his wife's death is one tempered with the hard realization that a great deal of the tragedy and suffering in life can't be glibly explained away.  His relation with God is more dependent, more childlike, than it was earlier.  CSL doesn't emerge victorious from the dark night of the soul he chronicles in this memoir.  He emerges broken, but his very brokenness makes his relationship with God more genuine.  And that's a lesson for us all to reflect on.  It makes CSL an utterly lovable man, and it reminds all of us of the perils of taking God for granted.granted.	2004-03-10
US	52797417	R1BLRW3M2B6N3Q	0385489463	154628064	Beyond the Darkness: A Biography of Bede Griffiths	Books	5	21	21	N	Y	Om and Amen	Shirley du Boulay has given us a beautifully crafted biography of one of the most interesting Christians of our time.  In many ways, Bede anticipated and served as a center of gravity for the new winds that blew through Christianity in the last third of the twentieth century.  He advocated a decentralized, collegiate authority in the Roman Catholic church, and worried about doctrinal intolerance and insularity.  Most importantly, he recognized that the world's faith traditions can indeed enter into a conversation with one another in which each enriches the other.  By the end of his life, after having spent 30 odd years in Christian ashrams in India, he'd become a proponent of nondualism or advaita, accepting a radical panentheism that tried to honor the both/and of intuition as opposed to the either/or of rationality.<br />Du Boulay's biography discusses Bede's personal life, but wonderfully summarizes the successive stages of his journey toward God.  Ordinarily biographies are best read only after some familiarity with their subjects' writings.  But this one is an excellent introduction to the thought of Bede.<br />Bede Griffiths was a luminary in the interfaith dialogue, and during his lifetime he helped many Christians to come to a new appreciation of the contemplative roots of their own faith by inviting them to explore the spiritualities of Hinduism, Buddhism, and Islam.  Unfortunately, the interest in interfaith dialogue and exchange that he encouraged seems to have waned in recent years, and particularly after 9/11.	2004-03-02
US	52797417	R1WJD964FT399I	1570752001	179512995	Bede Griffiths: Essential Writings (Modern Spiritual Masters Series)	Books	5	88	88	N	N	A Christian Sannyasi	When I think of the great Christian spiritual masters of the last 100 years, the names that come to mind belong to those folks who dared to leave behind the comfortable and familiar and venture out into the unknown spiritual wilderness.  In so doing, they stumbled across new insights and rediscovered forgotten truths that vitalize all of us.<br />Bede Griffiths, the British born and bred Benedictine monk who traveled to India at the age of fifty and lived there for almost 35 years, is one of these intrepid sojourners.  Griffiths reanimated a sometimes wilting Christianity by helping Christians to discover its deep contemplative core, and he did this by recognizing the shared patterns between Christian and Hindu contemplation.  Living as a Christian sannyasi (a seeker of God in the Hindu tradition) for almost half of his life, Griffiths' experiences and writings help the rest of us to see and appreciate our Christian tradition with fresh eyes while at the same time celebrating the spiritual truths in other faith traditions.<br /><br />Thomas Matus' well-chosen anthology offers a wonderful introduction to those unfamiliar with Bede Griffiths and a convenient resource for those who know and love him.  The selections represent Griffiths' autobiographical writings, his reflections on reason and intuition (&quot;masculine&quot; and &quot;feminine&quot;), his conviction that Hinduism and Christianity can complement and enrich one another, and his ultimate certainty that advaita, or nondualism, is the heart of all great religious traditions.  The selections are prefaced by an introductory essay that highlights some of the central themes in Griffiths' work.<br />Reading Griffiths and reflecting on his insight that there is a central unity, a nondualism, that ties all creation together, gives new meaning to familiar Christian categories such as the Mystical Body or the Vine and the Branch.	2004-03-01
US	52797417	R1OA6Y377C8QJ3	0334027713	198307605	On Being a Theologian	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Memoirs of a master	John Macquarrie is one of the finest Anglican theologians to come down the pike.  Influenced by Heidegger, Rahner, and the Patristic tradition, he has spent a lifetime carefully and sensitively crafting a perspective that he prefers to call \\"dialectical theism,\\" a panentheism that he believes can be traced back as far as Plotinus.  In the face of the postmodern rejection of foundationalism, Macquarrie seeks to salvage the project of \\"natural theology,\\" although his approach isn't that of classical natural theology.  He's an intriguing thinker and a wonderfully clear writer (an uncommon trait amongst 20th century theologians!).<br />_On Being a Theologian_ collects several autobiographical essays by Macquarrie that discuss his Scottish heritage, his youth and early education, the years he spent teaching at Union in New York and Oxford in England, and his travels in retirement.  Between the autobiographical chapters, the editors of the volume have interspersed wonderful essays on theology written by Macquarrie.  Two of the most interesting include a lecture on Rahner and one on Christian theology at the end of the second millennium.<br />Finally, the editors of the volume cap the whole thing off with two absolutely great resources:  a complete bibliography of Macquarrie's writings (running through 1998) and a book-by-book outline of his major works.  Students and admirers of Macquarrie's theology couldn't ask for a better reference guide.	2004-02-17
US	52797417	R2H8XREPLES6J1	0631195920	491980723	The Modern Theologians: An Introduction to Christian theology in the twentieth century, Second Edition (The Great Theologians)	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	An essential roadmap for 20th century theology	Theology aims to reveal something about God.  Perhaps it succeeds, occasionally, in this enterprise.  My guess, however, is that theology is more revelatory of humans (and so, indirectly, of God).  The theological enterprise sheds light on the best and the worst in us.  The best is a yearning, a striving, for that which is good and complete and life-giving.  In doing theology, we make our intellects and hearts instruments in the service of that for which we yearn.  Good theology is poetry.  The worst, on the other hand, is a will-to-power, an arrogant urge to build a Babelesque Tower, invade heaven, and capture (with sophisticated words and theories) God.  Movement from the best to the worst is always a theological temptation.  Few theologians completely resist it.<br />This collection of essays about the major 20th century theologians nicely illustrates both the best and the worst.  The essays for the most part are wonderfully written--they provide good surveys with a minimum of arcane theological vocabulary, and they nicely place the discussed figures in relation with their times and with one another.  The scope of the essays is also welcome, ranging from the Barthian rejection of neo-Protestant liberalism at the beginning of the century to David Ford's forward-looking essay on theological directions in the new millennium.  Liberation theologies, feminist theologies, evangelical theologies, as well as the alternately fruitful or antagonistic relationship between theology and world religions, the natural sciences, the social sciences, and the arts, are also examined.  Throughout, I found myself amazed by the incredible insights of some theologians and horrified at the intellectualistic hubris of others.  Maybe this is a healthy response to theology:  excitement at its promise, occasional weariness with its pretensions.<br />For both the beginning student of theology as well as more seasoned ones looking for a convenient and reliable summae, this volume is the best I've discovered.  Highly recommended (even though, as with all Blackwell books, it's horribly over-priced).I've discovered.  Highly recommended (even though, as with all Blackwell books, it's horribly over-priced).	2004-02-16
US	52797417	R3M69JZFQQU8QW	0819215856	499504921	Deacons in the Liturgy	Books	5	23	23	N	Y	An invaluable guide	The title (although evoking unfortunate associations:  &quot;bees in the bonnet,&quot; &quot;bats in the belfry,&quot; &quot;birds in the bush&quot;) is an exact description of what you get in this little book.  Written primarily for deacons, although invaluable to any person who's a member of the Episcopal Church USA or the Anglican Church of Canada, this little book is a how-to guide that spells out in great detail the liturgical functions of deacons.  Different chapters focus on deacons in rites of Christian initiation, the Eucharist, ordinations, seasonal celebrations, daily office, and various pastoral liturgies (marriages, reconciliations, burials).  If you're looking for a book that explores the theology and spirituality of the diaconate, this isn't the one.  But it is an excellent guide for appropriate diaconal participation in liturgy--actually, the best--and it doesn't pretend to be anything else.	2004-02-16
US	52797417	R3CU830FKMJA6H	1585420670	600287355	Original Blessing: A Primer in Creation Spirituality Presented in Four Paths, Twenty-Six Themes, and Two Questions	Books	5	107	110	N	Y	A revolutionary rediscovery of Christianity	It's been a long time since I first read this book--almost twenty years--and I'd forgotten just how brilliant it is until I recently returned to it.  If anything, my admiration for it this second time around has increased.  I honestly think the book is one of the most original theological reflections to come out of the twentieth century.<br />Like all works of genius, the thesis is simple and elegant.  Fox's central claim is that Christianity in the west (not so much in the orthodox east) has focused upon the nonscriptural notion of original sin at the expense of scripture's exuberant message of joyful original blessing.  Original sin, which appears to be the fifth-century contribution of Augustine, generates a worldview centering around a primordial fall salvaged by a bloody sacrifice (Christ's).  From this way of approaching reality, humans are depraved, the world is fallen, and experiences such as beauty or the erotic are immediately suspect as temptations.  The original blessing model, which Fox claims can be traced back to the Genesis account of God's creation of a &quot;good&quot; universe, argues instead for a panentheism that sees God--and God's goodness, light, beauty, and love--in (but not exhausted by) the created order, thereby opening up the possibility that humans are good because made in God's image, and that the world and all of God's gifts should be celebrated rather than condemned.<br />Put slightly differently:  the original sin model sees fallenness as the norm and goodness (which, given our depraved nature, is possibly only by grace, which in turn becomes a kind of magic bullet) the exception.  The original blessing model sees goodness and continuous grace as the norms, and fallenness as the exception.<br />Fox isn't naive.  He recognizes that sin exists, and that it does great damage in the world.  But he sees the cause of sin in dualism--the artificial splintering or fragmentation of God's reality into opposing and hence warring dyads--heaven and earth, eros and agape, man and woman, us and them, human and nature.  This fragmentation not only violates the wholeness (and holiness) of creation, but sets in motion psychological and social currents that lead to violence.<br />How different both Christianity and the world would be today had our foremothers and fathers counted their original blessings instead of morbidly fixating on original sin!  Hopefully, the Church is becoming more aware of its forgotten identity.  Please, read this book and discover a new and liberating way to live and think your faith.and earth, eros and agape, man and woman, us and them, human and nature.  This fragmentation not only violates the wholeness (and holiness) of creation, but sets in motion psychological and social currents that lead to violence.<br />How different both Christianity and the world would be today had our foremothers and fathers counted their original blessings instead of morbidly fixating on original sin!  Hopefully, the Church is becoming more aware of its forgotten identity.  Please, read this book and discover a new and liberating way to live and think your faith.	2004-02-15
US	52797417	R6GF8GGHZCTXE	0800631439	274430317	Liberating the Future	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Required reading for a global age	The essays in this anthology collect the reflections of some of the world's leading Christian theologians--for example, Gustavo Gutierrez, Jurgen Moltmann, John Cobb, and Douglas Meeks--on how Christians should comport themselves in the face of a new world order.  That order, of course, is globalization, a neo-capitalist reality that progressively draws resources from the developing world to the developed world while at the same time whittling away at indigenous cultures and values.  Globalization has created conditions of oppression and poverty that call for creative responses on the part of liberation theologians.  The essays in this book aim to begin that response.<br />All of the essays are insightful.  Susan Brooks Thistlethwaite, for example, writes an uncomfortable indictment of those North American and European liberals who fancy that merely writing about poverty in the world fulfills their obligations as Christians to follow the teachings of the Sermon on the Mount.  John Cobb continues the theological analysis of the global economy he began so fruitfully a few years ago.  Gayraud Wilmore worries about hite-directed and henced forced ethnic reconciliation in the United States.  Gutierrez has some haunting things to say about liberation and mysticism, reminiscent of his earlier &quot;We Drink from Our Own Wells.&quot;<br />But Douglas Meeks' article on liberation theology in North America is especially worth focusing on when you read this book.  Meeks argues that there's much work to be done in our own culture to convert worshippers of Mammon to a better understanding of their own inauthenticity as well as their partial responsibility for world poverty.  Liberation theology isn't something for &quot;those people&quot; south or east of the border.  It's for us as well--in fact, maybe PRIMARILY for us--since it's our consumerist lifestyles that fuel the corporate greed that turns the wheels of globalization.<br />Highly recommended.	2004-02-14
US	52797417	R3E529QDVK8M80	081560422X	580484949	Ecstatic Confessions: The Heart of Mysticism (Martin Buber Library)	Books	5	17	17	N	Y	Commotion and unity	This is one of those rare anthologies that is worth its price more for the editor's introductory remarks than for the anthologized essays.  Don't misunderstand me.  Buber does a wonderful job of selecting mystical &quot;ecstatic confessions&quot; from the world's religious traditions.  He includes passages from writers such as Rumi, Rabia, Symeon the New Theologian, Hildegard of Bingen, the Beguines, Julian of Norwich, and Catherine of Siena, as well as representative selections from works such as the Mahabharata.  For the most part the selections are judicious--although, because the book was published in 1909, twentieth century mystics such as Simone Weil and Thomas Kelley naturally aren't included.  Curiously, too, only a tiny snippet from Meister Eckhart makes it into Buber's book.<br />But what really makes the book invaluable is Buber's Introduction, in which he spells out his distinction between the &quot;commotion&quot; that distracts us from a unitive experience of God and the nature of the &quot;unity&quot; sought by the mystics.  The distinction is one that, under the guise of other terms (such as &quot;many&quot; and &quot;one&quot;) is well-known in mystical literature.  But Buber's beautiful prose, and especially his sensitivity to the importance of silence, are unmatchable.  Here's an example (p. 7):  &quot;Silence is our symbolon which protects us from the gods and angels of the commotion, our guard against its aberrations, our purification against its purity.  We ensilence our experience, and it is a star that travels along its path.  We speak it, and it is thrown down under the thread of the market.&quot;<br />A book that deserves to be better known.	2004-02-14
US	52797417	R31EJGAXTV4194	0192830988	335121165	The Concise Oxford Dictionary of English Etymology (Oxford Quick Reference)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Perfect for the nonscholar	I agree with the earlier reviewers that this isn't the most thorough etymological dictionary available.  But let's face it:  most of us don't need weightier and more expensive resources than this one.  In the ten years that I've owned the ODEE, I've used it hundreds of times, and only occasionally have I found it wanting.  As someone who does a good bit of scriptural exegesis, I generally turn to the ODEE before dragging out the Greek lexicon or Latin dictionary.  It can usually point me in the direction I need to go.  A wonderful resource that should be on the shelf of anyone who loves books and words, especially since our fastfood culture has bred so much forgetfulness of the deep meaning of words.	2004-02-14
US	52797417	R23H3NY86RQGTW	0631222502	207116763	Radical Christian Writings: A Reader	Books	5	17	17	N	Y	&quot;Radical&quot; in the true sense of the word!	The editors of this magnificent anthology begin their preface with this claim:  &quot;The Gospel of Jesus Christ, announcing the arrival of the kingdom or reign of God, offered a radical and subversive challenge to the world, its powers and authorities.&quot; Over the last two thousand years, Christians have willfully ignored or indifferently forgotten the subversive character of Christianity.  The writings collected here are from the pens of those few who have retained the ideal of liberation offered by Christ.  They are truly &quot;radical,&quot; in that they return to the roots of the Jesus movement to remind the rest of us of its nature.<br />Authors excerpted in the anthology range from Justin Martyr in the second century to contemporary authors from the developing countries.  The pages have small print and wide margins, so there's an entire library of source materials crammed into this single volume.  Representative authors include Pelagius, Marguerite Porete, Joachim of Fiore, John Ball, Lollards, Levellers, and Anabaptists, Bunyan, John Woolman, the French worker-priests, Steve Biko, William Stringfellow, Sara Maitland, Kenneth Leech, and Daniel Berrigan.  There are many authors here, particularly from the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, who are quite likely to be new names for most readers (at least they were for me!), and their writings are utterly fascinating.<br />All in all, an incredible reminder to all of us that a good part of the Christian lifestyle is bucking the powers and principalities so that justice can roll down like water.  Alas!  Like all Blackwell books, this one is overpriced.  But if you can afford it, Bradstock and Rowland's book is a keeper!	2004-01-25
US	52797417	RWPPZQ5VBBN10	0664223494	580440636	The Synoptic Gospels, Revised and Expanded: An Introduction	Books	3	18	22	N	Y	A no-surprises introduction	I read the first edition of this book some 20 years ago, just when I discovered Bultmann and fell in love with form criticism.  At the time, Nickle's analysis impressed me to no end.  But in the two decades between then and now, I've become increasingly suspicious of modern scriptural criticism (no, I'm neither a fundamentalist nor an evangelical!).  So my reading of this updated edition has been a less powerful experience.<br />Nickle's survey of the three synoptics is better than many I've read.  His text is fluid, user-friendly, and extremely organized.  He gives what I still consider to be the best quick survey of the basics of form criticism available, probably because he keeps torturous teutonic jargon to a minimum.<br />But the book is relentlessly literary in its approach.  Nickle deconstructs the three synoptics in a pretty predictable manner, making sure that he examines context, traces origins, classifies genres, and so on.  But what he doesn't do, any more than most other scriptural scholars (hence my dissatisfaction with the approach) is to pretty much ignore the fact that the scriptures are meant to be read from a spiritual (as opposed to a metaphorical or similiac) perspective.<br />Three quick examples of the blindspots this approach breeds.  In examining Matthew's Gospel, Nickle spends almost no time on the central image of the Kingdom, and utterly misses the possibility that the Kingdom is a codeword for present right relationships rather than an abstract eschatological possibility.  (In this regard, he uncritically follows the 19th century conclusion that all the authors of scripture were positive the world was about to end.)  In his examination of Mark, he gives the standard interpretation of the Messianic secret--Jesus' need to protect himself from the authorities--but doesn't in any way consider the possibility, suggested by Richard Rohr among others, that the messianic secret might also be a way of expressing the difficulty of recognizing the Lordship of Jesus--that most of us, including the original apostles, have a hard time getting what's going on.  Finally, in his examination of Luke's gospel, Nickle concludes that Luke's concern for the poor and the abused is a &quot;minor theme,&quot; thereby practically dismissing the not-at-all minor spiritual/social dimension to the gospel.  How sad.<br />There's a time and a place for form criticism (as well as all the other critical methods that came out of Germany in the 19th century).  But reading scripture in an exclusively textual manner is surely too limiting, and the problem with texts like Nickle's is that they give the impression that such a reading is the only game in town.  Thus the heart of the Gospels--story, the spirit--runs the risk of being sidelined.  Think of it this way.  How weird would it be to read Tolstoy's *War and Peace* primarily to discover the different forms of literary expression it contains?  After this rather tedious project is finished and neat classifications of the novel are formulated, the very important question still remains:  yes, but what's the STORY?Lordship of Jesus--that most of us, including the original apostles, have a hard time getting what's going on.  Finally, in his examination of Luke's gospel, Nickle concludes that Luke's concern for the poor and the abused is a &quot;minor theme,&quot; thereby practically dismissing the not-at-all minor spiritual/social dimension to the gospel.  How sad.<br />There's a time and a place for form criticism (as well as all the other critical methods that came out of Germany in the 19th century).  But reading scripture in an exclusively textual manner is surely too limiting, and the problem with texts like Nickle's is that they give the impression that such a reading is the only game in town.  Thus the heart of the Gospels--story, the spirit--runs the risk of being sidelined.  Think of it this way.  How weird would it be to read Tolstoy's *War and Peace* primarily to discover the different forms of literary expression it contains?  After this rather tedious project is finished and neat classifications of the novel are formulated, the very important question still remains:  yes, but what's the STORY?	2004-01-24
US	52797417	R2Z8UEE44855H8	0819215538	78510517	Praying Shapes Believing: A Theological Commentary on the Book of Common Prayer	Books	4	46	48	N	Y	Dry but worth the effort	My guess is that most people who have stood for Holy Orders in the Episcopal Church since this book was published have been required to read it as part of their training.  In just a bit over a decade, it's become THE book on the Book of Common Prayer.<br />Mitchell's basic assumption is the old &quot;lex orandi lex credendi&quot; proviso:  how we pray influences what we believe.  Since the Book of Common Prayer is the center of how Episcopalians corporately pray, it follows that an examination of it can reveal the theology to which it gives rise.  Looking at every aspect of the Book of Common Prayer, Mitchell examines the connection between liturgy, scripture, prayer, and theology.  The examination is thorough, running through the liturgical calendar, the Great Vigil, baptism, Holy Eucharist, pastoral offices, and ordinations.<br />In all fairness, two points need to be made.  The first is that Mitchell is one of the most uninspiring authors you'll every run across.  The topic about which he's writing is interesting, but be prepared to slog through prose whose academic dryness will challenge your determination.  Second, Mitchell's examination is broad but not terribly deep.  Historical roots of many aspects of the Book of Common Prayer's liturgy are barely tapped.  Dom Gregory Dix's wonderful book on liturgy is a good supplement here.	2004-01-24
US	52797417	R238D1JS13X1SO	0811214583	371521506	This Great Unknowing	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	Mahatma Denise	I miss Denise Levertov.  I never knew her personally, but she spoke to me through her poetry in ways that few others have.  I still remember how stunned I was to hear of her death--several months after the fact, in casual conversation with Deborah Larsen, a great-souled poet in her own right.<br />I've been rereading during these bleak but beautiful winter months Levertov's posthumous poems.  To my mind, they offer some of the best work she ever did.  They continue her themes of yearning for something that can't quite be uttered, her love for the particular, her striving to reach a level of awareness before which the heart of being will be revealed, and her concerns for justice and for the environment.  But now there's a poignancy, a nostalgia, an anticipation--and perhaps an acceptance--to her verse that suggest a woman awaiting the end.  I read her words--her sighs, really--and my soul expands just a little bit more than it would've.<br />One poem especially touches me--&quot;Memory demands so much.&quot;  Part of it is a fitting swansong for Levertov:<br />Take me flying before<br />you vanish, leaf, before<br />I have time to remember you,<br />intent instead on being<br />in the midst of that flight,<br />of those unforeseeable words.<br />Farewell, Denise.  And thanks.	2004-01-24
US	52797417	R1D68J8PDHPPH5	0807014079	503692409	The Power of Nonviolence: Writings by Advocates of Peace	Books	2	25	28	N	Y	Thrown Together?	I stand second to none in my admiration of the writings and life-work of Howard Zinn.  But I'm afraid this anthology is a sad disappointment, reading as if it were thrown together with too little forethought and too much regard for quick marketability.  Some of the selections are more judicious than others:  the Penn essay is a gem, and Emerson on war  is both good and little-printed.<br />But many of the other selections have been printed so often that one wonders why they need to be trotted out in yet another anthology.  Thoreau's &quot;Civil Disobedience&quot; and Camus' &quot;Neither Victims Nor Executioners&quot; immediately come to mind.  Not that these essays aren't worthy of being read; it's just that they're utterly predictable--and badly edited, at that.  Other selections are so abbreviated that they appear mangled.  Selections from the Buddha, Gandhi, Ikeda/Pauling are examples here.  Finally, other selections seem absolutely ... well, irrelevant.  Scott Nearing's selection, and Zinn's own piece on Vietnam fit into this category.  Writings on Vietnam, in fact, are way over-represented in the anthology, once again causing one to suspect that old standbys were conveniently trotted out for this anthology.<br />There are many other better anthologies--e.g., David Barash's *Approaches to Peace.*	2004-01-22
US	52797417	R1NLEQOYNZY6O	0415255767	959487224	Humane Warfare	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	The changing face of warfare	If you think that this book is an argument against war, you're mistaken.  Coker, a sociologist who clearly has a strong foundation in nineteenth and twentieth century continental philosophy, defends instead the claim that war, at least as waged by the West, is becoming more &quot;humane&quot; and thus, ironically, more risky.  His point is that the West's consumer-driven ethos increasingly makes it risk-aversive.  Western consumers, in other words, have things too well and too plentiful to risk losing everything in war.  So smart bombs and technological weapons begin to replace actual bodies on the battlefield, and wars of aggression, even if they're still fought by the West, are usually painted as wars of &quot;liberation&quot; or wars to protect &quot;human rights.&quot;  The problem, Coker concludes, is that these &quot;humane&quot; wars still kill a lot of the enemy--in fact, they make it easier to kill the enemy since our war-at-a-distance style makes it less likely we have to look the enemy in the face.  Moreover, he argues that many developing nations are still fighting nonhumane wars, and the asymmetrical nature of future conflicts is likely to result in much death.  A provocative thesis, but at times the chapters wander a bit as Coker draws in too many sources.	2004-01-20
US	52797417	R3NUL4J926W9T9	0684848171	403320766	Making the Corps	Books	3	40	64	N	Y	Some strange blindspots	Thomas Ricks' &quot;Making the Corps&quot; is a fascinating but also frustrating book.<br />On the fascinating side, it's a human interest exploration of what it means to make it through book camp.  Ricks follows the recruits of Platoon 3086 through their basic training ordeal, recounting the daily routine in the life of the average grunt recruit.  That part of the story is pretty familiar to most everyone--to those of us who went through basic training ourselves, and also to those who've never been in the military but who have seen the million-and-one Hollywood movies with boot camp scenes in them.  Familiar as the story is, however, Ricks telling of it is gripping.  He's a good writer, and knows how to capture a reader's interest.<br />The frustrating aspect of the book is the fact that Ricks never asks, much less answers, any of the very obvious and crucial questions his account naturally suggests.  Had he done so, his book would've been more than merely a journalist's story about boot camp.  It would've been a real contribution to our understanding of American culture.  For make no mistake about it:  the very existence of the Corps is a prism through which to observe and learn things about America that go far beyond just the military.<br />Let me cite just two examples of where Ricks fails to reflect on what he's witnessing.<br />On pp. 116-119, Ricks describes a typical Sunday morning chapel call.  All of us remember them; they were routine.  Some of us took them seriously, most of us probably didn't.  We were just relieved for the break.  Now, in the Parris Island chapel, there's a stained glass window, described by Ricks, which depicts &quot;a Marine flamethrower, his weapon's flames billowing out in a red, organce, and yellow mass.&quot;  This, to say the least, is disconcerting:  in chapel, a place of worship, peace, and meditation, you've got a scene of horrible carnage (a flame-thrower, for God's sake!) enshrined.  This passage in Ricks' book is a symbol for the strange dilemma that any religious military person has to face: how can the demands of the job be reconciled with faith?  It's a dilemma that ripples across the entire country, especially these day now that we're in a new shooting war, and it needs to be explored.  But Ricks neither reflects on it himself nor invites any of the boots he's following to do so.  It's as if he doesn't even catch the incongruity.<br />Second example.  Starting on page 200, Ricks argues that the Corps, anxious to create traditions that will build loyalty (semper fi, guys) and morale, along the way creates a strong sense of anti-Americanism in its recruits.  Marines, Ricks says, are being trained as &quot;American samurai in the way they think of themselves and in the way they relate to their nation.  Like the Japanese, the ... Marines, when looking at America see a society weakened by selfishness, indiscipline, and fragmentation.&quot; (201)  The upshot (as Ricks himself acknowledges) is that the Corps, dedicated to the protection of American culture, is instilling in its recruits a deep contempt for American culture.  How weird is that?  But instead of exploring this weirdness by asking the predictable questions--What is there about American culture that the Corps finds so offensive?  How protected are we if the protectors we train disdain us?  How is it that military values (or at least the Corps') are so out of step with civilian ones?--Ricks moves blithely on.  It's as if his loyalty to the Corps prevents him from criticizing it in any way.  But why would criticism be disloyal?  Has there ever been a jarhead who hasn't criticized the Corps?<br />So read Ricks' book, but ask the questions he doesn't.  They're important, and past and current Marines are the ones best qualified to ask them.  &quot;Semper fi&quot; doesn't mean dumbing down.for the strange dilemma that any religious military person has to face: how can the demands of the job be reconciled with faith?  It's a dilemma that ripples across the entire country, especially these day now that we're in a new shooting war, and it needs to be explored.  But Ricks neither reflects on it himself nor invites any of the boots he's following to do so.  It's as if he doesn't even catch the incongruity.<br />Second example.  Starting on page 200, Ricks argues that the Corps, anxious to create traditions that will build loyalty (semper fi, guys) and morale, along the way creates a strong sense of anti-Americanism in its recruits.  Marines, Ricks says, are being trained as &quot;American samurai in the way they think of themselves and in the way they relate to their nation.  Like the Japanese, the ... Marines, when looking at America see a society weakened by selfishness, indiscipline, and fragmentation.&quot; (201)  The upshot (as Ricks himself acknowledges) is that the Corps, dedicated to the protection of American culture, is instilling in its recruits a deep contempt for American culture.  How weird is that?  But instead of exploring this weirdness by asking the predictable questions--What is there about American culture that the Corps finds so offensive?  How protected are we if the protectors we train disdain us?  How is it that military values (or at least the Corps') are so out of step with civilian ones?--Ricks moves blithely on.  It's as if his loyalty to the Corps prevents him from criticizing it in any way.  But why would criticism be disloyal?  Has there ever been a jarhead who hasn't criticized the Corps?<br />So read Ricks' book, but ask the questions he doesn't.  They're important, and past and current Marines are the ones best qualified to ask them.  &quot;Semper fi&quot; doesn't mean dumbing down.	2004-01-16
US	52797417	R19QFSRT4F7VKW	1856230031	560796839	Permaculture in a Nutshell, 3rd Edition	Books	5	50	51	N	Y	Reinventing community	I'm perplexed as to why the Dutch reviewer is so dissatisfied with this little primer on permaculture.  From where I sit, Patrick Whitefield has done a marvelous job of introducing the worldview and techniques of permaculture to beginners.<br />Permaculture is above all a new way of envisioning the world and our (human) relationship to it such that we become sensitive to the vast interconnectedness of species.  To live and grow food permaculturally is to work with rather than against nature.  The two cardinal principles of permaculture is that work is any need not met by the eco-system in which one dwells, and pollution is any output not absorbable by the eco-system.  The permaculturalist seeks to design living and food-producing systems such that both work and pollution are minimalized.<br />Permaculture, which flows from the deep ecology sensibility that the world's natural resources are limited and in many cases nonrenewable, encourages us to rethink what we mean by community.  Community isn't exclusively human, and it isn't a gridwork suburb carved out of the natural terrain.  It's instead an environment in which &quot;useful connections between different elements in a system&quot; are recognized and nurtured &quot;so that as many inputs as possible are provided from within the system, and as many of the outputs as possible are used within it.&quot; (p. 53)  When you think about it, this understanding of community applies to human families, urban neighborhoods, bioregional groupings, and so on.  Reenvisioning community in this way leaves a lighter footprint upon the earth and improves the quality of life for all species in the process.<br />Whitefield's book is a good starting place for anyone who wishes to simplify their life, nurture the good earth, and improve the lot of all species.  Give it a read and rediscover what our ancestors knew but we've forgotten:  that humans must live in harmony with nature or cease to live.	2004-01-16
US	52797417	RXFCUROWQU7R6	1570751560	534465652	Loaves and Fishes: The Inspiring Story of the Catholic Worker Movement	Books	5	70	72	N	N	&quot;All we give is given to us to give&quot;	So says Dorothy Day in &quot;Loaves and Fishes&quot; (p. 177), and it is both the heart of the book's message and the central theme of her adult life.  Thank goodness Orbis has reprinted this classic personal history of the Catholic Worker movement and the colorful saints in its ranks.  In the book, Dorothy tells how her depression-era meeting with Peter Maurin birthed first a newspaper, then a hospitality house, then a national movement.  In addition, Dorothy tries to explain the underlying theological and spiritual principles of the Catholic Workers:  the resistance to power structures that cynically refuse to care for society's most vulnerable; the Christ-inspired conviction that voluntary poverty (or what Dorothy called &quot;precarity&quot;) is a mechanism for social reform as well as a transformative sharing in redemptive suffering; that the duty of Christians is to collaborate with God in the creation of God's Kingdom; and that in society as it's currently structured, one is either on the side of the poor or one is an exploiter--there's no fence-sitting.  As Peter Maurin says (quoted by Dorothy, p. 86):  &quot;We cannot see our brother [or sister] in need without stripping ourselves.  It is the only [genuine] way we have of showing our love.&quot;<br />Reading Dorothy Day, as I try to do every year, is a reminder both of how far from the Gospel message most of us who call ourselves Christians live, and how wonderfully easy, joyful, and liberating living that message would actually be.  By both her example and writings, Dorothy invites us to ask ourselves why we hold back from doing what we know is right, and inspires us to roll up our sleeves and accept the Gospel challenge.  Let her have the final word here (p. 176):<br />&quot;One of the greatest evils of the day...is [a] sense of futility.  People say, What good can one person do?  What is the sense of our small effort?  They cannot see that we must lay one brick at a time, take one step at a time; we can be responsible only for the one action of the present moment.  But we can beg for an increase of love in our hearts that will vitalize and transorm all our individual actions, and know that God will take them and multiply them, as Jesus multiplied the loaves and fishes.&quot;n be responsible only for the one action of the present moment.  But we can beg for an increase of love in our hearts that will vitalize and transorm all our individual actions, and know that God will take them and multiply them, as Jesus multiplied the loaves and fishes.&quot;	2004-01-16
US	52797417	R27UCD1ISXK6GC	1558614095	24008299	Women on War: An International Anthology of Writings from Antiquity to the Present	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	Naming war for what it really is	In his recent book &quot;War Is a Force That Gives Us Meaning,&quot; Chris Hedges argues that many of us find war alluring because it gives our otherwise humdrum and centerless existences a sense of meaning.  We feel part of something greater than ourselves, and as a consequence feel larger than life.  Of course, this sense of deep meaning is illusory, but it does account in part for why so many men find themselves attracted to something as terrible as war.<br />One of the great merits of Daniela Gioseffi's multi-merited &quot;Women on War&quot; is its documentation of the other side.  In our obsession with battlefield glory and stories of combat heroics, we too often forget that women and children are the forgotten victims of war.  Already extremely vulnerable, they become even more so when societies are ripped asunder by the mayhem of armed conflict.  In listening to their voices, we are reminded that the allure of war too frequently blinds us to what it does to those who can least afford its violence.<br />Gioseffi's book collects women's perspectives on war from all corners of the globe and from ancient to contemporary times.  The book is divided into four thematic sections:  &quot;Prophecies and Warnings,&quot; &quot;Violence and Mourning,&quot; &quot;Courage and Resistance,&quot; and &quot;Hope and Survival.&quot;  The entire collection is prefaced with a superb introductory essay, &quot;Cassandra's Daughters.&quot;  As suggested by the thematic section titles, the selections go beyond expressing the suffering and torment experienced by women in wartime.  Just as importantly, the selections also include women's voices of resistance and women's voices that offer alternatives to the madness of war.  Some of the selections are heart-breaking, others are inspiring, none are superfluous or redundant.  if war in part arises, as Hedges maintains, because of our alienated need for meaning, one solution to the problem of war is to figure out how to live nonalienated existences.  The selections in this collection, especially in the final two sections, offer either direct or indirect suggestions for celebrating rather than destroying life.  One of my favorites is the &quot;I Have All the Passion of Life&quot; by Puerto Rican poet Lolita Lebron:<br />&quot;...Whoever denies life its joy,<br />the wealth of its complexity,<br />its rainbow-like countenance,<br />its downpour and its universe<br />of beauty, its generous giving,<br />the caress, the grain<br />with fruit and delicacies,<br />the bud, the flower, pain and<br />  laughter;<br />those who deny life its measure<br />of joy<br />are the unseeing ones.&quot; (p. 300)<br />In short, a superb resource for anyone concerned about creating an alternative to the war system.  Highly recommended for both individual and group reading.  Would be an ideal text in any peace studies course.istences.  The selections in this collection, especially in the final two sections, offer either direct or indirect suggestions for celebrating rather than destroying life.  One of my favorites is the &quot;I Have All the Passion of Life&quot; by Puerto Rican poet Lolita Lebron:<br />&quot;...Whoever denies life its joy,<br />the wealth of its complexity,<br />its rainbow-like countenance,<br />its downpour and its universe<br />of beauty, its generous giving,<br />the caress, the grain<br />with fruit and delicacies,<br />the bud, the flower, pain and<br />  laughter;<br />those who deny life its measure<br />of joy<br />are the unseeing ones.&quot; (p. 300)<br />In short, a superb resource for anyone concerned about creating an alternative to the war system.  Highly recommended for both individual and group reading.  Would be an ideal text in any peace studies course.	2004-01-16
US	52797417	R1IF9HM8YJ1FY1	0809140713	962264044	John Macquarrie, a Master of Theology	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A good roadmap	I discovered Macquarrie back in the mid-1970s when he came to speak at my undergraduate university.  At the time I was a hardnosed Sartrean existentialist, fond of lamenting meaning and extolling absurdity.  A talk over dinner with Macquarrie (I was one of the lucky philosophy majors invited to eat with him) shook my foundations.  I began reading his Heidegger-inspired theology books, and a completely new way of thinking about the world--not to mention God--opened up before me.  Although I am no longer the Macquarrie groupie I once was (a fact which I'm sure he would applaud), I can honestly say he's one of the primary influences on my own theological convictions.  And it was Macquarrie who first introduced me to Rahner, a theologian whom Macquarrie rightfully admires. <br />Owen Cummings provides a pretty good overview of the nature and structure of Macquarrie's theology in this little primer.  Cummings begins the book by explaining Macquarrie's dialectical theism and his \\"from-below\\" Christology, then moves on to an examination of Macquarrie on the Church, Sacraments, the Eucharist, Mary, and Prayer.  The discussion is punctuated throughout with Cumming's personal anecdotes of Macquarrie, which some readers may find invigorating and others may find distracting (alas, I'm one of these).<br />It might be argued that too much space is allowed for the discussion of Macquarrie on the Church, and too little (almost none, really) allowed for Macquarrie's groundbreaking work in theological anthropology as well as his always insightful ethical reflections.  One of the best books on peace written in the 20th century came from Macquarrie's pen, and it is sadly neglected in Cumming's book.  All in all, I think that Eugene Long's now out-of-print \\"Existence, Being, and God\\" is a much better introduction to Macquarrie's thought.  But Cumming's book does have some strong points.  It's up-to-date, and this is important since Macquarrie is still a very active theologian.  It's biographical information is valuable.  And it is written with an infectious affection and warmth for its subject.  Well worth a read, particularly since I'm confident that Macquarrie is one of the 15 or 20 best theologians of this century.	2004-01-15
US	52797417	RQS4QS5KPQYJ9	0963775103	829235549	Ecodefense: A Field Guide to Monkeywrenching	Books	5	55	65	N	Y	It's the planet, stupid!	You know what's really refreshing about this book?  It actually dares to take seriously the &quot;I-don't-give-a-damn-I've-got-mine&quot; attitude that's destroying the planet.  Too many of us are content to talk, talk, talk about the ecocide we see going on around us daily.  We lament global warming, the loss of species, the deforestation of the earth, the pollution of land and water and air, and frequently become so overwhelmed by it all that we throw up our hands and adopt an &quot;apres moi, le deluge&quot; cynicism.  And in the meantime, by the way, we continue to drive our SUVs, blithely drink our plastic-bottled water, and keep realtors in business (did you know that 46 acres of prime farm land is developed every hour in this country?!) as if there's no tomorrow--which of course there won't be if all we do is talk and waste!<br />The folks who put &quot;Ecodefense&quot; together are tired of talk and collaboration.  They advocate a NONVIOLENT defense of imperiled nature, and they're willing to belly up to the bar and pay the price of their convictions.  State and federal prisons house a goodly number of people who've had the courage to monkey-wrench in defense of Mother Earth.  Instead of condeming them, as an earlier reviewer of &quot;Ecodefense&quot; does, we should see them as prophets and political prisoners.<br />The conviction, passion, and courage in this book should, if nothing else, make the rest of us ashamed of our inaction.  If the tactics of monkey-wrenching aren't for you, fine. But at least let this book nudge you to get off your duff long enough to work &quot;within the system&quot; to bring about changes in public complacency and corporation-driven public policy.  Please, though: don't carp about monkey-wrenchers if you're sitting on your hands and doing nothing.  And double please:  wake up to the unpleasant but indisputable fact that if you're not part of the solution, you're most definitely part of the problem.	2004-01-15
US	52797417	R1UCNKW8O5PGZK	0800632664	533548809	The Silent Cry: Mysticism and Resistance	Books	5	69	69	N	N	A wonderful farewell gift	Dorothee Soelle's &quot;The Silent Cry&quot; appeared shortly before her death, and it's a fitting swansong for a theologian who spent her entire life exploring and living the intersections between action and contemplation.  Her exploration of mysticism accomplishes three goals.  In the first section of the book, Soelle works out a general definition of mysticism, arguing that it is a sensibility all of us possess even though it's rarely appreciated (much less cultivated) by either society or institutionalized religion.  Her reflections (chapter 4) on mysticism's essentially uncommunicable insights into God and reality, and hence its search for a &quot;new language,&quot; are particularly good.  In the second section of the book, she explores five foci of mystical experience:  nature, erotic love, suffering, community, and joy.  Each of these contexts can birth awareness of the Beyond that is also Present.  The chapter on eroticism is especially insightful.  But it's in the third section that Soelle comes into her own and offers truly original and masterful work.  Here she argues at great length for the thesis that mysticism isn't at all a private, individualistic mode of experience, but in fact is a mode of social resistance and liberation.  Her position might be called &quot;liberation mysticism.&quot;  Of particular interest are her discussions of voluntary simplicity and nonviolence.<br />All in all, a fantastic book.  It's a very nice complement indeed to Evelyn Underhill's classic study.  Thanks, Dorothee!	2004-01-15
US	52797417	R2CAFWVNZXSQTL	0809140713	962264044	John Macquarrie, a Master of Theology	Books	3	7	7	N	N	An okay introduction	I discovered Macquarrie back in the mid-1970s when he came to speak at my undergraduate university.  At the time I fancied myself a Sartrean existentialist, fond of sprinkling my speech with romantic talk about the absence of meaning.  A talk over dinner with Macquarrie (I was one of the students lucky enough to wrangle an invitation) shook my foundations.  I began reading his Heidegger-inspired theology books, and a completely new way of thinking about the world--one which made room for meaning and God--opened up before me.  Although I'm no longer the Macquarrie groupie I once was (a fact I'm sure Macquarrie would applaud), I can honestly say he's been a major influence on my own theological thinking.  And it was Macquarrie's writings which first introduced me to Karl Rahner, a theologian whom Macquarrie rightfully admires.<br />Owen Cummings provides a decent overview of the nature and structure of Macquarrie's theology in this little primer.  Cummings begins the book by explaining Macquarrie's dialectical theism and his \\"from-below\\" Christology, then moves on to an examination of Macquarrie on the Church, sacraments, Mary, and prayer.  The discussion is punctuated throughout with Cumming's personal anecdotes of Macquarrie, which some readers may find invigorating even as others (alas, I'm one of these) find them a bit distracting.<br />It might be argued that Cumming's treatment gives too much space to Macquarrie on the Church and too little (almost none, really) to Macquarrie's groundbreaking work in theological anthropology as well as his always insightful ethical reflections.  One of the best books on peace written in the 20th century came from Macquarrie's pen, and it is sadly neglected in Cumming's book.<br />All in all, I think that Gene Long's now out-of-print \\"Existence, Being, and God\\" is a much better introduction to Macquarrie's thought.  But Cumming's book does have a couple of strong points.  It's up to date, and this is important since Macquarrie is still a very active theologian.  And it's written with an infectious affection and warmth for its subject.  Well worth a read as an introduction to one of the best theologians of this century.still a very active theologian.  And it's written with an infectious affection and warmth for its subject.  Well worth a read as an introduction to one of the best theologians of this century.	2004-01-15
US	52797417	R24DRFT6SNNP9X	0867162031	691983194	Jesus' Plan for a New World: The Sermon on the Mount	Books	5	69	72	N	Y	The upside-down kingdom	I've read a lot of Rohr's books, but somehow I've only now gotten around to this one.  Immersing myself in it was like jumping into an icy mountain pond:  stunning, bracing, invigorating, renewing.  It's a courageous book that dares to challenge &quot;religious culture,&quot; that institutionalization of Christ's gospel that renders it meek and mild and safe, and to persuasively defend instead the original subversive character of Christ's life and teaching.  Jesus, according to Rohr, was much more of a threat to the social and moral status quo than he's usually reckoned to be.  In challenging the cultures of money, power, and religionism, he offered a radically counter-cultural model of right relationship that he called &quot;God's Kingdom.&quot;  This Kingdom grows not by the sword or by power (that would be to fall into the trap the prevailing cultures), but by love and powerlessness.  It subverts the established order by simply ignoring it and building the shell of the new within the old.  That's one of the reasons Jesus so favored the poor, the marginalized, and disenfranchised:  because they fell outside the &quot;system,&quot; they hadn't been corrupted by it and were capable of working with God to build the Kingdom.<br />Richard Rohr's reminder of God's great vision of justice, peace, and fulfillment, a vision preached and died for by Jesus, is a challenge to all of us who call ourselves Christians but have fallen into the habit of &quot;loving Jesus&quot; without acting accordingly.  Highly recommended as a tonic to laypersons and clergy alike.  Would that Christians would take its message to heart.  Then the world might once again marvel at &quot;how these Christians love!&quot;	2004-01-13
US	52797417	R3CQT9A40KLT4H	0802822223	740042668	Glorious Companions: Five Centuries of Anglican Spirituality	Books	2	30	36	N	Y	An Anglican &quot;Bartlett's Quotations&quot;	A good idea, but a rather disappointing achievement.  There's very little to sink one's teeth into here.  Mere snippets from 29 Anglican authors' writings are offered.  None of them are longer than a third of a page, many of them are no more than 2 or 3 sentences.  As a consequence, the reader doesn't get &quot;Five Centuries of Anglican Spirituality&quot; so much as &quot;300 pages of Anglican quotes.&quot;  Quotations are tricky things.  If they're epigrams or one-liner witticisms--the kind of stuff Oscar Wilde, for example, churned out--they can stand alone.  But quotations that are taken from larger works, particularly theological and spiritual ones, rarely do well apart from their contexts.  They may provide raw material for lectio divina or meditative prayer.  But they hardly give an idea of the depth or breadth of Anglican spirituality.  It's all well and good, for example, to know that Dorothy Sayers wrote that &quot;It is curious that people who are filled with horrified indignation whenever a cat kills a sparrow can hear that story of the killing of God told Sunday after Sunday and not experience any shock at all&quot; (p. 273).  But what does this quotable quote, which first appeared in the Introduction to Sayers' &quot;The Man Born To Be King,&quot; actually mean?  Read by itself, it's a commonplace, almost trite observation.  It's only Sayers' reflections on this strange indifference to the killing of God, as well as her thoughts on scriptural &quot;realism&quot;--all of which Schmidt omits--that makes the passage worth attending to.	2004-01-08
US	52797417	R20MNXW8QMDO85	1570754586	205847475	The Moral Vision of Cesar Chavez	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	A companero to us all	Frederick John Dalton is to be congratulated for this beautifully written and spiritually inspiring study of the moral vision that underlay Cesar Chavez's activism.  Following in the tradition of Jesus, Dorothy Day and the Catholic Worker movement, and the Berrigan brothers, Chavez's orientation was biblical to the core.  He preached and practiced nonviolent resistance, personal and group sacrifice, the transformative power of love and forgiveness, and individual prayer and meditation as essential tools in working for peace and justice.  Unlike so many activists then and now, Chavez wasn't concerned with protesting and demonstrating just to say &quot;No.&quot;  More fundamentally, he was interested in working for social and economic conditions that would affirm people with a resounding &quot;Yes!&quot;  Chavez's deep faith in God and the Gospel of justice and peace grounded that &quot;Yes&quot; and made it truly prophetic.  As he himself said, &quot;What keeps me going?  Well, it's like a fire--a consuming, nagging everyday and every-moment demand of my soul to just do it.  It's difficult to explain.  I like to think it's the good Spirit asking me to do it.  I hope so...If you really want something, you have to sacrifice.  Because of my faith the concept of sacrifice is understood&quot; (p. 162).<br />This is a must-read for anyone who yearns to integrate a passion for social justice with a deep, mystical faith in God.  Cesar showed us, as all genuine mystics do, that the two are not only incompatible but necessarily conjoined.  Dalton's sensitive and well-written study has done Chavez proud.	2004-01-02
US	52797417	R1C1GL3DPO093D	1585441708	985258135	The Words of Csar Chvez	Books	5	17	18	N	Y	Beating the odds: A REAL American success story	The story of Cesar Chavez is one of a little guy beating the odds and winning.  But it's not a typical American dream, rags-to-riches story.  The foe that Chavez beat was systematic racist and economic oppression, and the uphill victory he finally achieved was justice.  Chavez's great contribution was to show in his life and words that there are more powerful things than money and the power that money buys.  Love, mutual respect, cooperation and community, a commitment to nonviolence, and a deep religious faith that affirms the dignity of all humans made in the likeness of God:  these are the weapons that Chavez used, and they're what kept the movement he founded from becoming just another corrupt trade union.<br />In this anthology of his collected speeches and writings, Chavez's commitment to the biblical ideals of peace and justice flow with an elogance that matches the beauty of his life.<br />Three examples:<br />&quot;We advocate militant nonviolence as our means for social revolution and to achieve justice for our people, but we are not blind or deaf to the desperate and moody winds of human frustration, impatience, and rage that blow among us.  Gandhi himself admitted that if his only choices were cowardice or violence, he would choose violence.  Men are not angels and the time and tides wait for no man.  Precisely because of these powerful human emotions, we have tried to involve masses of people in their own struggle; and free men instinctively prefer democratic change and even protect the rights guaranteed to seek it.  Only the enslaved in despair have need of violent overthrow.&quot;  (p. 36)<br />&quot;Organizing is difficult because in our capitalist society we believe the only way things get done is with money...[But] there isn't enough money to organize poor people.  There never is enough money to organize anyone.  If you put it on the basis of money, you're not going to succeed.  So when we started organizing our union, we knew we had to depend on something other than money...since there wasn't any money and the job had to be done, there would have to be a lot of sacrificing.&quot;  (p. 66)<br />&quot;It is possible to become discouraged about the injustice we see everywhere.  But God did not promise us that the world would be humane and just.  He gives us the gift of life and allows us to choose the way we will use our limited time on this earth.  It is an awesome opportunity...We can choose to use our lives for others to bring about a better and more just world for our children.  People who make that choice will know hardship and sacrifice.  But if you give yourself totally to the nonviolent struggle for peace and justice, you also find that people will give you their hearts and that you will never go hungry and never be alone.  And in giving of yourself you will discover a whole new life full of meaning and love.&quot;  (p. 167)n something other than money...since there wasn't any money and the job had to be done, there would have to be a lot of sacrificing.&quot;  (p. 66)<br />&quot;It is possible to become discouraged about the injustice we see everywhere.  But God did not promise us that the world would be humane and just.  He gives us the gift of life and allows us to choose the way we will use our limited time on this earth.  It is an awesome opportunity...We can choose to use our lives for others to bring about a better and more just world for our children.  People who make that choice will know hardship and sacrifice.  But if you give yourself totally to the nonviolent struggle for peace and justice, you also find that people will give you their hearts and that you will never go hungry and never be alone.  And in giving of yourself you will discover a whole new life full of meaning and love.&quot;  (p. 167)	2004-01-02
US	52797417	R2VGE7B98JG2RH	1561011789	696243143	A Dictionary for Episcopalians	Books	5	58	59	N	Y	Quick!  What's a &quot;dossal&quot;?	On the surface of things, there might seem something a bit precious about a dictionary that explains &quot;churchy&quot; terms.  It smacks of private language and esoteric, self-enclosed culture--two characteristics frequently ascribed to the Episcopal Church.  But in fact John Wall's (revised &amp; expanded) dictionary is a gem for at least three reasons.  First, it helps the average Episcopalian to get in better touch with his/her tradition.  Two thousand years of practice are embedded in the Eucharist and other religious liturgies, and it helps to heighten appreciation and celebration when the richness of that practice is better understood.  (The priest's washing of hands is called &quot;lavabo,&quot; from the Latin for &quot;I will wash,&quot; and dates back at least to Jewish ceremonial ablutions.)  Second, any Episcopalian who will ever serve on the altar guild or vestry or as a lay eucharistic minister is going to run across terms that are unfamiliar--paten, pall, centrum, burse, etc.  In fact, people in the pew who play no other role in church are likely to be confused at some terms:  for example, concelebration, collect, rood, proper.  So the dictionary is incredibly helpful from a purely practical perspective.  Finally, it's simply very cool to learn that objects in the church and acts in liturgy actually have names:  cincture, solemn vs. simple bow, orans position.  Believe it or not, this is one dictionary you'll read straight through.<br />By the way:  a dossal is the &quot;large piece of fabric, often decorated with symbols, hung on the wall behind the altar.  The term is derived from the Latin word for 'back'&quot; (p 45).	2004-01-02
US	52797417	RVYY525CPHVEP	0829420002	242119722	Radical Compassion: Finding Christ in the Heart of the Poor	Books	5	21	21	N	Y	Read the book &amp; then find a way to serve!	Halfway through his book, Jesuit priest Gary Smith describes a 2 a.m. street scene he once witnessed.  A couple of guys, both probably drunk, were having a shouting and shoving match.  Tempers escalated until one of the two pulled a knife.  The other guy shouted:  &quot;You can't kill me, motherf***er!  I'm already dead!&quot;<br />This haunting scene serves as a metaphor for the book's message.  The people with whom Smith lives and ministers--the street people, the abandoned, the unstable, the addicted, the hopeless--too frequently see themselves as the walking dead.  Why wouldn't they?  &quot;Respectable&quot; society dismisses them as the dark, dirty secret it would like to sweep under the rug.  It doesn't take too much exposure to our success-oriented culture to internalize its standards of social condemnation.  If you're told often enough that you're garbage, you begin to believe it.<br />The stories that Smith tells about these people are heartrending.  But they also sometimes shine with a certain dignity and hope that helps readers break through the stereotypical way we've been trained to think about the homeless.  In listening to Smith's stories, those of us who are fortunate to live on the right side of the tracks just might be able to recognize that we're also among the living dead.  Our pocketbooks may be healthy, but our hearts are dead because we tolerate the suffering of our fellow humans and do nothing about it.  Radical compassion--to which all of us are called--quickens us back to life.  The poor's very existence is a challenge to our lifestyles and a gift to us of the possibility of conversion.<br />Smith refuses to be a zombie.  As he says (p. 98):  &quot;I take it all [the suffering of others] personally.  If a woman or a man is abused, then I am abused, and if I don't feel that way, then I want to feel that way.  If your flesh is lacerated, so is mine.&quot;<br />To which I say:  &quot;Amen!&quot;	2004-01-02
US	52797417	R2O8ZRBIS7HV9O	1573225851	773105623	Rilke's Book of Hours: Love Poems to God	Books	5	46	51	N	N	A primer in love, divine and human	I hadn't read Rilke in years.  And then, wonderfully, I pulled this hitherto unopened translation off my shelves, and rediscovered what so moved me in his poetry when I was a young man.  Rilke has the true poet's gift of seeing more deeply into the fabric of existence than most of us, and the ability to invite us to look a bit more closely.  He hints, insinuates, teases, and almost always illuminates.<br />I particularly love this book because Rilke, in keeping with the tradition of love mysticism, wants to suggest that there's no fundamental difference between the intense yearning for another person and the intense yearning for God.  As the poet/narrator tells a young monk struggling with passions of the flesh, &quot;now, like a whispering in dark streets/rumors of God run through your dark blood.&quot;  Love of God and love of humans are both erotic inasmuch as they involve the entire person, mind, soul, and body.  To long for the beloved is necessarily a sensual experience.  Moreover, reminiscent of the great medieval mystic Meister Eckhart, Rilke holds that God erotically yearns for us as much as we yearn for God.  One of my favorite poems in the book, &quot;Was wirst du tun, Gott, wenn ich sterbe?&quot;, hauntingly worries about the devastatinig effect the poet/narrator's death will have upon God the Lover:<br />What will you do, God, when I die?<br />I am your pitcher (when I shatter?)<br />I am your drink (when I go bitter?)<br />I, your garment; I, your craft.<br />Without me what reason have you?<br />...What will you do, God?  I am afraid.	2003-12-31
US	52797417	R1D49ZP2T97Q0D	0883470918	385622028	Confessions of a Catholic Worker	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A beautifully honest chronicle	Michael Garvey's short memoir of his time working in an Iowa Catholic Worker House is a gem.  The book is a reflective series of vignettes if a number of remarkable clients such as Pete Domino, Three-Finger Floyd, and Loretta the exorcist.  Garvey's authorial handling of them is superb.  He doesn't romanticize them, but he also resists the temptation to caricature them. Accordingly, they come across as real people, complete with blemishes but great holiness as well.  And that's really the subtext of the memoir:  learning to see others as the reflections of Christ they are.<br />Garvey admits on several occasions to weariness, spiritual and physical.  Sometimes he confesses that he simply wants to run away from the grime and odors of the Catholic Worker House and find himself a quiet place in a nice neighborhood.  At other times Garvey is uncomfortably aware that he has a safety net that makes his voluntary poverty very complicated indeed.  &quot;There's one tension at this place that is ... irreconciliable.  We (the staff workers)have chosen to be here...For all our attempts to identify with the poor and the weak, we will never share with them the involuntary nature of their poverty.&quot; (92)  But he's clearly a guy so aflame with Jesus' revolutionary Gospel that occasional despair and doubt feed rather than deplete him.  The honesty with which he sometimes questions the course he's chosen is refreshing, and makes his story even more gripping.<br />Some choice passages that illustrate the flavor of the book:<br />&quot;The problem with the attempt to furnish Christ with a leisure suit is that, once the subject is brought up, he might demand to go naked.&quot;<br />&quot;The joy to which we are called is a fierce thing, something which in our present state we couldn't sustain.&quot;<br />&quot;The amount of attention I pay to my annoyance about the excesses of the new and the timidity of the old Church helps measure my unwillingness to take up the cross.&quot;	2003-12-30
US	52797417	R2VSNNG8GBN5ZP	1561011762	158514452	Ethics after Easter (New Church's Teaching Series)	Books	1	16	21	N	N	Oh dear . . .	I've truly tried to appreciate this book.  I really have.  I've actually plowed my way through it on two different occasions.  But with all due respect to its author, the book is just soooo boring, soooo tedious, and soooo simplistic that it's difficult to work up any enthusiasm for it.  This is a shame, because Christian ethics is both an intrinsically exciting field and an excruciatingly important one for those of us who struggle to respond to the world as loyal members of a community of faith.<br />Perhaps one of the reasons this book is so dissatisfying is that it struggles so hard to play it safe.  Author Holmgren provides a very traditional account of moral knowledge derived from reason and from revelation, nods to the very obvious fact that agreement on moral principles doesn't entail agreement about practice, and points out the equally obvious fact that principles are general and moral dilemmas are concrete and situational and that casuistry is the discipline of trying to apply the one to the other.  All this is as predictable (and as stimulating) as the Baltimore Catechism.  Holmgren only begins to enter into interesting waters when he reflects on the tension between the human desire for the good and human fallenness, but he quickly pulls back by offering the reader a deadly account of the seven deadly vices.  Reading his book, one would never suspect that Christian ethics is an incredibly rich, incredibly complex, incredibly diverse, and incredibly rewarding area of investigation that draws on anthropology, psychology, sociology, and philosophy as well as scripture and tradition.  There's a certain quaintness to the book that makes it seem as if it written in the mid-nineteenth century before moral theologians such as Rowan Williams, John Macquarrie, Gene Outka or Stanley Hauerwas were born!<br />I appreciate that the volumes in the New Church's Teaching Series, of which Holmgren's book is one, are intended as popular introductions to lay Anglicans.  But the new series, with the notable exception of Margaret Guenther's beautiful book on prayer, tends, like Holmgren's book, to be simplistic, boring, and patronising.  My guess is that they are bought and read by Anglicans more out of a sense of duty than joyful eagerness.  That's a genuine pity, because the Anglican spiritual, theological, and moral tradition is a beautiful and insightful one.  How in the world can the Episcopal Church hope to excite its members about their faith when it feeds them such pablum?!he new series, with the notable exception of Margaret Guenther's beautiful book on prayer, tends, like Holmgren's book, to be simplistic, boring, and patronising.  My guess is that they are bought and read by Anglicans more out of a sense of duty than joyful eagerness.  That's a genuine pity, because the Anglican spiritual, theological, and moral tradition is a beautiful and insightful one.  How in the world can the Episcopal Church hope to excite its members about their faith when it feeds them such pablum?!	2003-12-30
US	52797417	R2NFFJV9NF4VJ2	0942961285	595040564	Rethinking Globalization: Teaching for Justice in an Unjust World	Books	5	22	25	N	Y	An incredible resource!	Bill Bigelow and Bob Peterson have put together a compendium of articles that attest to their central claim that, when thinking about the globalization phenomenon, \\"everything is connected.  You can't really understand what's going on in one part of the world without looking at how it's related to everything else.\\"  Poetry, essays, illustrations, graphs, memoirs, and classroom exercises (one of my favorites:  \\"How do you live on 31 cents a day?\\", p. 145) are collected that deal with colonialism, sweatshops, child labor, food production and distribution, consumerism and culture, and neoliberal capitalism.  The selections are written by some of the best people in the field, and are almost always interesting.  My only reservation is that Bigelow and Peterson could've spent more time on the military connection.  But then one book can't be expected to do everything.<br />Bigelow and Peterson teach high school and fifth grade, and the anthology was clearly born from their desire to dialogue with their own students about globalization.  But the anthology isn't limited to teenagers.  It's actually a quite sophisticated and close-to-comprehensive collection that I intend to use in one of my own college classes on peace and justice.  It fits a number of audiences nicely--high school, undergraduate college, lay reading.<br />Highly recommended!  It would make a great post-Christmas, anti-consumerism gift.	2003-12-30
US	52797417	R3H7K6WP3SGGBH	0865714711	568103326	Creating a Life Together: Practical Tools to Grow Ecovillages and Intentional Communities	Books	5	61	61	N	Y	Deserves TEN stars	As a member of a group of folks currently planning an intentional community, I can testify to the fact that a million and one totally unexpected questions (not to mention the expected ones!) leap up to bewilder anyone thinking about creating an alternative living experiment.  There are philosophical questions--what do we stand for (not just what are we against)?  what's our vision?--and there are the nitty-gritty questions that have to do with land ownership, trusts, zoning permits, nonprofit status, and so on.  Until you're actually in the process, you have no idea of how complicated the creation of an intentional community can be.  No wonder fewer than 10% of planned communities actually get off the ground!<br />That's why Diana Leafe Christian's book is so invaluable.  Written by someone who's been part of the intentional community movement for years, and a member of an ecovillage, &quot;Creating a Life Together&quot; could easily be subtitled &quot;everything you always wanted to know about forming an intentional community but were afraid to ask.&quot;  Especially valuable is its discussion of composing vision statements, thinking through what kind of land is right for your group, dealing with bankers who are likely to be wary of intentional living in the first place, and different strategies for conducting initial meetings and making group decisions--you'd be surprised how foreign consensus-style decision-making is to most of us.<br />A growing number of folks are searching for meaningful, peaceful, self-sufficient, and eco-friendly lifestyles-in- community that offer alternatives to the consumer-driven world.  But building these communities is hard and sometimes perplexing work.  Take all the help and advice you can get-and Christian's book is at the top of the list.	2003-12-29
US	52797417	RPT3I7ISWPTKP	1570753563	462667725	The Prayer of Saint Francis: A Message Of Peace For The World Today	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Insightful, but on the run	Boff's little meditation on peace, inspired by the so-called Francis prayer, is exquisite in places.  But it's also rather breathless, running from one line to the next in the prayer without taking time to chew well on any of them.  The opening chapters, to Boff's credit, try to explore the meaning and causes of peace a bit more thoroughly, but the rest of the book travels way too quickly.  To give Boff his due, the book is intended as a devotional rather than a theological treatise, so one expects a certain amount of sketchiness.  But still, the book raises too many questions that cry out for discussion.  One quick example:  on pp. 25-29, Boff writes about Girard on mimetic violence, intending this as one explanation for why peace is so tenuous.  But the transition in his account from literal scapegoating to legal scapegoating is so abrupt that no one who hasn't read Girard could possibly follow it.<br />Having said this, it's also the case that Boff's book shows real insight in places.  His claim that peace begins with a re-connection with God is both Franciscan and on target, and his reformulation of peace as an &quot;order-action&quot; is also a creative and fascinating contribution.  He briefly mentions the &quot;diabolic&quot;/&quot;symbolic&quot; distinction he's made in other works, and it's helpful here as well (although, again, a reader unfamiliar with it may not quite follow what Boff's up to).	2003-12-29
US	52797417	R2YE8P6NFOLRGU	093272745X	30957910	The Wisdom of the Poor One of Assisi	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	For those who grieve	Toward the end of his life, Francis of Assisi endured what can only be described as a time of great desolation and despair.  His physical health was failing; the Order he had founded was moving away from his original ideals of simplicity and poverty; his mission to the Muslims had fizzled out; and several of his oldest and dearest companions had deserted him.  It's not unreasonable to suppose that Francis also felt himself deserted by God.  This sense of utter abandonment may not fit the hagiographies, but it sure makes psychological sense.<br />Franciscan Eloi Leclerc takes this time of abandonment as his starting place for this elegant and insightful meditation.  The book is an imaginative reconstruction, but one that's based on contemporary texts, of the struggles that Francis went through during his years of doubt and despair.  Leclerc doesn't offer ready-made solutions or sweetly pious recipes.  One of the great merits of this book is that he takes Francis' despair seriously.  Ultimately, however, he also takes Francis' breakthrough moment seriously:  the moment when Francis has the revelatory realization that, bad as life can get, &quot;Deus est.&quot;<br /><br />I've thought about this simple claim--&quot;God is&quot;--many times since reading this little book.  On the surface, it may seem anti-climactic.  But as Leclerc presents it, there's a great deal of wisdom in being able to make and live the assertion.  It may be that there's more theology embedded in the simple affirmation &quot;Deus est&quot; than in all the world's books.	2003-12-29
US	52797417	R217UN6TVI1W7K	0521779189	447558729	The Cambridge Companion to Christian Ethics (Cambridge Companions to Religion)	Books	4	20	20	N	Y	A good introduction to Christian ethics	By and large, the essays in this volume are well-researched, well-written, and tightly argued.  The book is divided into three sections:  a preliminary one that interprets the relationship between faith, scripture, and ethics; a middle one that explores various traditions in Christian ethics; and a final one that offers treatments of specific moral issues.<br />The first part is the most satisfying of the three.  Rowan Williams' lead essay, &quot;Making Moral Decisions,&quot; masterfully argues that Christians make moral decisions pretty much the same as everyone else, except (and this is a big &quot;except&quot;) for the fact that the decisions are made within the context of a community of faith and reflect that community's worldview.  This means that the Christian should also seek to exemplify divine holiness in her moral decisions, and that she should take seriously disagreements in the community that also strive for such an exemplification.  The other essays in the first section take their cue from Williams' approach, carefully examining whether scripture is a set of definitive moral guidelines or whether it instead is an interpretive tool that invites contemporary readers to examine the issues confronting them in light of the Gospel message.  The latter approach is endorsed.<br />The middle section discusses several traditions including natural law ethics and virtue ethics, but for my money Lisa Sowle Cahill's essay on gender and Tim Gorringe's on liberation are the most interesting.  They're also the most unsatisfying, because space constraints prevent Cahill and Gorringe from providing more than sketchy overviews.<br />The third section is the most uneven part of the book.  R. John Elford offers a rather uncritical endorsement of just war theory, thankfully offset by Robin Gill's reasoned but passionate argument that the arms trade is unacceptable from a Christian moral perspective.  Max Stackhouse's essay is a strangely heavy-handed endorsement of neoliberal capitalism, but is balanced to some extent by Duncan Forrester's more reflective essay on social justice and welfare.  Michael Northcott's essay on ecology is quite good, but Don Browning's on world family trends is overblown--one of his basic contentions is the (surely eurocentric) claim that father-less families are devastating in their consequences--and James Childress' on biomedical issues is a rather ho-hum rehash of standard issues revolving around abortion, euthanasia, and reproduction.<br />One interesting note:  the influence of Stanley Hauerwas is evident throughout the essays in this volume.  There are more references to him than to any other Christian ethicist-- including Thomas Aquinas, Augustine, Karl Barth, Martin Luther, and St. Paul!eral capitalism, but is balanced to some extent by Duncan Forrester's more reflective essay on social justice and welfare.  Michael Northcott's essay on ecology is quite good, but Don Browning's on world family trends is overblown--one of his basic contentions is the (surely eurocentric) claim that father-less families are devastating in their consequences--and James Childress' on biomedical issues is a rather ho-hum rehash of standard issues revolving around abortion, euthanasia, and reproduction.<br />One interesting note:  the influence of Stanley Hauerwas is evident throughout the essays in this volume.  There are more references to him than to any other Christian ethicist-- including Thomas Aquinas, Augustine, Karl Barth, Martin Luther, and St. Paul!	2003-12-29
US	52797417	RN883UPAB4NYK	0316076651	55268796	Jung: A Biography	Books	4	59	63	N	N	A bit unsatisfying	Bair's biography of Jung is a well-written but ultimately rather disappointing book, not up to the high standard Bair set for herself in her earlier biographies of Beckett and de Beauvoir.  Her treatment here is so replete with detail about Jung's life that it sometimes seems slightly obsessive; the opening chapter on Jung's grandparents and parents, for example, offers way more information than the typical reader is likely to want or need.  But there's little effort in all the minutiae to offer analysis or even description of Jung's thought.  At best, Bair throws in a short paragraph every other chapter or so that summarily announces a central Jungian concept.  But even then, the paragraph is frequently a quotation, laden with jargon that hasn't been explained.  This seems strange, given that Jung himself insisted that inner life was constitutive of his outer one.  The upshot is that the reader who knows little about Jung's psychology will walk away from the book with his/her ignorance pretty much intact.  This is frustrating.<br />One thing that the book does accomplish is to give the reader a good idea of the terrible jockeying for intellectual authority that consumed the Viennese Freudian school as well as the Zurich Jungian school.  The life of the mind, at least in the context of early twentieth-century psychoanalysis, comes across as cutthroat and down-and-dirty, with both Freud and Jung seeming pretty shameful.  Here's where good discussions of the intellectual issues at stake would've been helpful.  In their absence, the major players in this story come across as pretty cynical.	2003-12-28
US	52797417	R3KFNOMD2EVER1	0819219908	77971934	Rowan Williams: An Introduction	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	A great place to begin	This little book about the new Archbishop of Canterbury is of great value to Anglicans as well as non-Anglicans.  Williams is a world-class Christian theologian (the first to occupy Canterbury since William Temple during WWII), but he's also a fine social commentator and evocative poet.  Shortt's treatment provides a good overview of Williams' career as academic, parish priest (putting the lie to those who claim that Williams has no pastoral experience), and bishop.  This information will fill in many gaps for readers who have only vague ideas of where Williams came from.  More important, however, is Shortt's treatment of Williams' philosophy, theology, spirituality, and politics.  Williams comes across as a very traditional defender of the Anglican via media when it comes to ecclesiological issues, but as something of a mystic in matters theological.  He's very taken, for example, with the mystery--contradiction, a secular logician might say--that lies at the heart of Christianity:  God become human, the darkness of faith as brilliance, and so on.  One suspects that his mystical leanings stem from both his Welsh background and his absorption of Eastern Christianity, both Greek and Russian Orthodoxy.  A pleasant surprise along the way is Shortt's brief discussion of the influence of Gillian Rose on Williams.  I wasn't familiar with Rose's work before this book.  She's well worth reading in her own right.	2003-12-28
US	52797417	R2KA2GU28V1JL4	1570754357	847025838	The Blindfold's Eyes: My Journey from Torture to Truth (Guatemala)	Books	5	27	28	N	N	A tribute to the human spirit	I first read Sister Dianna's memoir when it came out in October 2002, but found her account of her kidnapping, torture, and rape in Guatemala (not to mention the psychological and social after-effects she's endured) simply too troubling to review at the time.  I just reread it, and only now am able to get beyond the pain to touch base with what I think is the book's real message.<br />Sister Dianna never softpedals either the brutality to which humans can sink nor the horrifying scars such brutality leaves on victims.  She and thousands like her have been wounded for life by the ill-treatment they suffered.  To look at Sister's photograph on the book's cover is to see a pain in her eyes that will probably never leave her.  But she also leaves room for hope and redemption:  a hope and redemption, granted, that are ambiguous and sometimes desperate, but nonetheless solidly real for being so unromanticized.  She recognizes that what was taken from her during her brutalization can never be returned.  Accounts will never be balanced.  But as she writes at book's end, \\"What I had to learn is that math is not enough.  You have to take into account the unexpected.  As Graham Greene said, 'Life is absurd.  Therefore, there is always hope.'\\"  Not hope for a flashy divine intervention that makes everything right, but for a more solid, more redemptive healing:  \\"I have forgiven God for not working some dramatic miracle.  I've learned that God was working a quiet miracle all along, healing me through other people.  I still have the horrible past with me<br />--I carry it in my memory and in my skin and I always will--but laid over it, like new skin over a wound, is a newer past, a past of caring and love.\\"<br />I thank God for people like Dianna Ortiz, whose life reminds us that there is great strength in fragility.	2003-01-04
US	52797417	R1PEAYI4CDQT03	0896086976	868154879	Iraq Under Siege, Updated Edition: The Deadly Impact of Sanctions and War	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	The war never ended	The war against Iraq didn't end in 1991.  Since then, US and UK forces have dropped almost 2000 bombs and hit almost 500 targets enforcing \\"no fly zones\\" in the north and the south.  One US official boasts that \\"We're down to the last outhouse\\" when it comes to targets.  The Los Angeles Times refers to the war on Iraq as \\"the longest sustained US air operation since the Vietnam War.\\" In addition to the continued air strikes, economic sanctions have severely crippled Iraq's economy. The \\"collateral damage\\" caused by the sanctions are first and foremost children.  UNICEF estimages that 5000 Iraqi kids under the age of 5 die each month because of \\"the prolonged measures imposed by the Security Council.\\"  When asked on \\"60 Minutes\\" in 1996 if the death of half a million children was worth the sanctions, then-Secretary of State Madeleine Albright responded:  \\"We think the price is worth it.\\"  Clearly the present administration concurs.<br />*Iraq Under Siege* is a masterful collection of essays that speaks to the ongoing \\"hidden\\" war against Iraq and spells out in graphic detail, and with a wealth of statistical back-up, the costs of that war.  This is stuff you won't get in the mainstream media.  CBS, NBC, ABC, Fox, and CNN won't tell you, for example, that the US used nuclear weapons in the Persian Gulf War--weapons made from radioactive depleted uranium, which vaporized on impact and contaminated both civilians and US military personnel; that mortality from otherwise treatable illnesses have skyrocketed in Iraq because the sanctions reduce the availability of simple medications; or that 6000 Iraqi infants die of starvation each month (this from the UN coordinator for humanitarian aid to Iraq, Denis Halliday).<br />Reading this book goes a long way toward explaining why the US is distrusted by the Middle East.  It also goes a long way toward persuading any open-minded reader that this nation's foreign policy simply must change.  How can any American with conscience sleep comfortably?ep comfortably?	2003-01-02
US	52797417	R28BA6A62UL2AM	0829811583	491178421	Reconciliation: The Ubuntu Theology of Desmond Tutu	Books	4	71	73	N	Y	A much needed corrective to rampant individualism	Christianity in North America and Europe tends to buy into the Enlightenment ethos of &quot;enlightened self-interest&quot; and &quot;rational individualism.&quot;  The individual as free agent is the starting point for thinking about society, and this of course reduces community to little more than a collection of individuals who come together out of self-interest.  A Christianity saturated with this way of thinking about the relation between persons and society tends to focus too much on individual salvation and individual sin and too little on the Kingdom of God as communitarian ideal, collective salvation, and corporate sin.<br />The underlying principle of Archbishop Tutu's Christian ethics is the African notion of &quot;ubuntu.&quot;  Ubuntu is a difficult word to translate, but it connotes community, with the understanding that it's impossible to isolate persons from community, that there's an organic relationship between all people such that when we see another, we should recognize (an important word for Tutu) ourselves and the God in whose image all people are made.  Interdependence and reciprocity, not independence and self-sufficiency, are the keys here.  As Tutu magnificently says, &quot;A self-sufficient human being is subhuman.  I have gifts that you do not have, so consequently, I am unique--you have gifts that I do not have, so you are unique.  God has made us so that we will need each other.  We are made for a delicate network of interdependence.&quot;  (p. 35)<br />Michael Battle, an African-American theologian who lived and worked for a while in South Africa, has written a comprehensive and lucid account of Tutu's understanding of ubuntu.  He carefully explores its ethical, theological, and spiritual implications for Tutu and, by association, for contemporary Christianity.  Battle is generous in his quotes from Tutu, but he also provides insightful commentary on Tutu's words.  Strongly advised for anyone wishing to explore Christian social ethics.  I recommend it be read along with Bishop Tutu's *No Future Without Forgiveness.*I recommend it be read along with Bishop Tutu's *No Future Without Forgiveness.*	2003-01-02
US	52797417	R1Z9N1B0M9SPNE	1859845010	169226275	War Plan Iraq: Ten Reasons Against War with Iraq	Books	5	34	41	N	Y	A must-read while there's still time	*War Plan Iraq* is a reasoned, non-jingoistic appeal for cool heads and out-of-the-box thinking when it comes to US relations with Iraq.  Milan Rai provides a concise history of UNSCOM inspections and how those inspections eventually broke down.  Rai's point is to argue that the breakdown isn't irreparable.  Rai then goes on to argue explicitly against a military showdown with Iraq by claiming (1) that there's no established connection between Iraq and Osama bin Laden, (2) that there's no evidence of Iraqi weapons of mass destruction, (3) that the consequences of war could be devastating to both the region and to international relations, (4) that the economic consequences of a war are dire, (5) that both popular and military opinion about a war are mixed, and (6) that Washington isn't so concerned with a regime change--that is, a change to democracy--as a leader change--that is, getting rid of Saddam Hussein.  Consequently, overthrowing the current strongman will do nothing to improve the lot of the average Iraqi, despite Washington's rhetoric to the contrary.<br />All in all, a persuasively argued book.  I recommend it alongside Anthony Arnove's *Iraq Under Siege* and, for the other side's perspective, Kenneth Pollack's *The Threatening Storm.*	2003-01-02
US	52797417	R3NCSCB0LTSZOV	1859843352	346698683	The No-Nonsense Guide to Climate Change (No-Nonsense Guides)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Not &quot;Bad Science&quot; Anymore!	Even conservatives now admit that global warming is a reality and that it's primarily the result of fossil fuel use (see the EPA document on global warming published earlier this year).  But the extent of the problem is only beginning to sink in.  The twentieth century was the hottest century, the 1990s the hottest decade of the millennium, and 1998 the hottest year of the 1990s (we know this from analyzing atmospheric gases trapped in Arctic ice).  And we're only feeling the effects of CO2 emissions from 35 years ago!  The nasty effects of all the emissions since then haven't even kicked in yet.  Moreover, global warming will also lead to &quot;feedback&quot;--the official term for extreme weather.  Tornadoes out of season, violent thunderstorms and hail, droughts, floodings, blizzards:  all of these are already occuring as wind currents and meterological conditions feel the effects of overall global warming.<br />Dinyar Godrej's *Climate Change,* a volume in the excellent &quot;No-Nonsense&quot; series, outlines the basic (and frightening!) facts about global warming, backing his claims up with a wealth of data and references.  This makes his book a convenient (and affordable) resource for anyone who wants to get a handle on what's happening to the planet.  But Godrej also offers some social, political, and personal suggestions for slowing down and hopefully reducing the human activity that creates global warming.  Highly recommended.  Read it, get scared, get angry, get working!  And while you're at it, get rid of your SUV.	2002-12-26
US	52797417	R1E5S2VN2Q61BT	0375708839	807721745	Salvation: Scenes from the Life of St. Francis	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	A portrait gallery	I was prepared to dislike this book, although for the life of me I can't quite remember why.  Perhaps it's because I distrust fictional accounts of Christian saints, particularly when they're written by nonbelievers.  But I was quite mistaken in this case.  Martin's &quot;biography&quot; of St. Francis is a wonderfully beautiful series of sketches.  She takes scenes from his life--those related by the two earliest biographies by Thomas of Celano, but also later accounts such as Bonaventure's--and imaginatively weaves them into a cinematic-like skein that offers glimpses of the man Francis.  So the reviewer who carps about her chronological lapses really misses the point.  Martin doesn't intend to offer a straightforward account of the saint's life so much as a string of meditations that take their starting point from specific events in his life.  Along the way she offers prose that is breathtaking in its beauty.  Here's an example, taken from Martin's description of Francis early encounter with a leper--the episode that he himself, in his Testament, describes as his &quot;conversion.&quot;  Francis has just kissed the leper's hand:  &quot;His ears are filled with the sound of wind, and he can feel the wind chilling his face, a cold, harsh wind blowing toward him from the future, blowing away everything that has come before this moment, which he has longed for and dreaded, as if he thought he might not live through it.  He reaches up, clinging to the leper's tunic, for the wind is so strong, so cold, he fears he cannot stand against it.  . . . The two men clutch each other, their faces pressed close together, their arms entwined.  The sun beats down, the air is hot and still, yet they appear to be caught in a whirlwind.  Their clothes whip about; their hair stands on end; they hold on to each other for dear life.&quot;	2002-12-24
US	52797417	R3929E56S7JMOR	0819215864	352251571	American Martyr: The Jon Daniels Story	Books	4	6	8	N	N	An American hero	Many Christians today have what some sociologists of religion have called a &quot;suburban spirituality&quot;:  we like our religion neatly trimmed, safe, gated, and above all respectable.  As a consequence, fewer and fewer of us are willing to take chances--much less, God forbid, risks--for the sake of the Gospel.  Little wonder that some of the folks most ardently working for peace and justice have a healthy distrust of Christianity.<br />Jon Daniels, a seminary (Episcopal) student, was someone who had no use for suburban spirituality.  He went down to Alabama at the height of the Civil Rights disturbances, lived the Gospel's message of service, and eventually was gunned down by a white deputy sheriff (who was acquitted by an all-white jury!)when he pushed a black teenager out of the way and caught the gunshot blast intended for her.<br />Daniels was only in his mid-twenties when he was martyred, but his essays, letters, and journal, which make up a good half of this biography, reveal a man who had thought and prayed deeply about the need to live the Gospel message of service to others.  The book, first published some 35 years ago, has been reprinted by Moorehouse Press, and deserves wider attention than it's gotten thus far.  Jon Daniels is a real American hero.	2002-12-24
US	52797417	R4CMEYB2YJ0SZ	0375708839	807721745	Salvation: Scenes from the Life of St. Francis	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	A portrait gallery	I was prepared to dislike this book, because I tend to distrust imaginative &quot;biographies&quot; of Christian saints.  Too often, they tend to be sweetly sentimental.  But my concerns were pointless in this case.  Martin's &quot;biography&quot; of St. Francis is a wonderfully beautiful and reflective series of sketches.  She takes scenes from his life--those related by the two earliest biographies by Thomas of Celano, but also later accounts such as Bonaventure's--and imaginatively weaves them into a cinematic-like procession that offers glimpses of the man Francis that shed light on our own spiritual journeys.  The reviewer who carps about Martin's chronological lapses really misses the point of what she's trying to do.  She doesn't intend to offer a straightforward account of the saint's life so much as a string of meditations that take their starting point from specific events in his life.  And along the way she offers prose that is breathtaking in its beauty.  Here's an example, taken from Martin's description of Francis early encounter with a leper--the episode that he himself, in his Testament, describes as his &quot;conversion.&quot;  Francis has just kissed the leper's hand (p. 241):  &quot;His ears are filled with the sound of wind, and he can feel the wind chilling his face, a cold, harsh wind blowing toward him from the future, blowing away everything that has come before this moment, which he has longed for and dreaded, as if he thought he might not live through it.  He reaches up, clinging to the leper's tunic, for the wind is so strong, so cold, he fears he cannot stand against it.  . . . The two men clutch each other, their faces pressed close together, their arms entwined.  The sun beats down, the air is hot and still, yet they appear to be caught in a whirlwind.  Their clothes whip about; their hair stands on end; they hold on to each other for dear life.&quot;  Wow!  With writing like that, how could one not love this book?	2002-12-24
US	52797417	R1G4ZQ2NPTH7GB	1888375035	544146126	My Master's Robe: Memories of a Novice Monk	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Tinh Nguoi	&quot;Tin Nguoi&quot; is the Vietnamese title of this little book.  It means &quot;humanity,&quot; and humanity is precisely what Nhat Hanh reflects on in it.  What it means to be human, what it means to seach for one's true self, what it means to live in community with other humans:  each of these questions are explored through a series of short story-like reflections on Nhat Hanh's years as a young Buddhist monk.<br />At first reading, the book seems slight.  But like most of Nhat Hanh's books, it's better thought of as simple rather than simplistic.  We make the world too complicated with our rushing about and our efforts to master everything.  Nhat Hanh's prose offers a simpler, slower, more meditative approach to reality, and thus mirrors the points he wishes to make.<br />So his stories about memorizing large books as part of his novice training, or of being assigned to look after the cattle (kept by the monks solely for their manure), or his delightful sketches of fellow-novice Brother Man or monastic cook Aunt Tu, generally aim to teach a lesson about what it means to follow the Buddha's path.  They are parables, and as such will provoke any number of reflections on the part of the perceptive reader.  The chapter dealing with koans is one of the most insightful treatments of the subject I've ever read.  It alone is worth the price of the book.	2002-12-24
US	52797417	R3FXYNE7SIVZLM	0060505281	565936517	The Skeptic: A Life of H. L. Mencken	Books	3	5	17	N	N	This biography by-passes the interesting question . . .	. . . which is why the American reading public seems so continuously fascinated by Mencken.  Teachout's biography is okay so far as it goes, although I agree with an earlier reviewer that it doesn't really break any new ground.  But because Teachout focuses on Mencken as skeptic, I would've hoped his treatment would've reflected on what it says about a culture that idolizes wise-cracking, cynical, and mean-spirited curmudgeons such as Mencken.  Forget his racism and hateful remarks about practically everyone but himself.  Forget his pitiless social Darwinism, and his smug conviction that most humans don't really deserve to exist.  Just focus on his relentlessly catty mode of expression, his Don Rickles-like glee in speaking ill about and to others, his comfort with sacrificing fairness or objectivity for the sake of the cutting bon mot:  why do we not simply tolerate but positively idolize such a person?  What does it say about our culture when we value Mencken's kind of barbed cleverness at the expense of rigorous analysis and compassionate empathy?  The very fact that Mencken is a cultural icon is worrisome.<br />Teachout's biography gets three stars.  But Mencken himself?  So far as I'm concerned, he comes up with nada.  As King Lear says, nothing gets you nothing.	2002-12-21
US	52797417	R3TST4DMJY8L03	0670031283	411137759	Reluctant Saint	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Elegant and insightful	You'd think there would be little left to say about Francis.  Thousands of articles, monographs, and books have been written about the little poor man over the last eight centuries.  But Spoto has risen to the occasion in his new book.  He makes sense of the frequently confusing chronology of Francis' life in a manner that marks him as a master biographer.  But along the way he also offers rich insights about Franciscan spirituality and theology in particular and Christianity in general. (Spoto, by the way, has a doctorate in theology from Fordham University.)  Here's an example:  &quot;Francis could not but surrender to the immediate impact of Jesus' words:  indeed, he approached them simply but fully, putting into practice the biblical counsels without waiting to consider their every implication.  In other words, in following the lessons of the New Testament he pursued the reverse of the usual means of pedagogy.  He did not try to understand what the Gospel meant and then attempt to find ways of carrying out its message.  Rather, he dared the experiment of first living that message, and from living it, discovered a new and practical way of understanding it.&quot; (p. 68)  Reflections such as this alone would make the book worth reading.  But Spoto is such a wonderful stylist and penetrating biographer that the entire book is a joy.  I'd recommend it alongside Adrian House's recent &quot;Francis of Assisi:  A Revolutionary Life.&quot;	2002-11-29
US	52797417	R2XXLG9MCIL1EH	0871781999	259734235	Dwell in Peace: Applying Nonviolence to Everyday Relationships	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Deserves a wider readership	Although it shows its age a bit (Rollo May, for example, is one of the authors frequently cited) Ronald Arnett's *Dwell in Peace* remains a wonderful little book for anyone committed to nonviolence.  Its primary value lies in its taking the discussion of nonviolence to the everyday.  Most of us, after all, will never serve as soldiers.  But all of us have to deal with violence or the threat of violence, psychological or physical, in our daily interpersonal encounters.  Leaning heavily upon Martin Buber, Arnett carefully and sensitively explores the \\"between\\" space of relationships that opens up the possibility of genuine dialogue and genuine reconciliation.<br />To my mind, the most important part of Arnett's treatment is his discussion, in Part III, of \\"self-fulfillment.\\"  He argues that too frequently our quest for self-fulfillments is actually narcissistic.  In our hunger for self-discovery, the great temptation is to focus on self at the expense of wider considerations.  Even when we think we're dedicated to causes outside of ourselves, we may be using them as opportunities for self-interest--which means that we'll drop them once we no longer find personal satisfaction in them. because we become fixated on \\"finding ourselves.\\"  But genuine peacemaking, Arnett points out, might in fact demand a sacrifice of self-fulfillment for the sake of others.  Sobering words for a self-indulgent age, but ones that the advocate of nonviolence ought to take to heart.<br />All in all, a very good and still timely discussion of the nonviolent alternative.  Read it alongside Walter Wink's *The Powers that Be* or anything by Dorothy Day.	2002-06-20
US	52797417	R3QFDOBUQTJ9V9	0195146166	53052700	The Next Christendom: The Coming of Global Christianity	Books	4	80	86	N	Y	A (perhaps unintended) endictment of &quot;northern&quot; Christianity	Jenkins's *The New Christendom* is an incredibly thought-provoking estimate of the new faces Christianity will wear in the next half century.  Given that population and religious enthusiasm is waning in the northern hemisphere, and just the opposite is going on in the southern one, Jenkins predicts that Christianity's center of gravity will migrate to Africa and Central and South America in the immediate decades ahead.  This will result in the emergence of new symbols, new styles of worship, new metaphors, and new ethical sensibilities, all of which mean that Christianity will no longer be dominated by an Eurocentric history and ethos.<br />Because southern Christianity will become increasingly pentecostal, evengelical, and politically and morally conservative, northern sensibilities, which already tend to take the Christian message with an urbane grain of salt, are likely to dismiss Christianity even more.  It will be dismissed as &quot;jungle religion,&quot; (p. 169) contrary to both enlightened and postmodern ways of viewing the world.  Thus the north will find pseudo-legitimation for its steady move toward secularism in religious revival of the south.<br />In defending this thesis, Jenkins indirectly raises serious concerns about the spiritual health of North American and European Christianity.  If his predictions are in any way true--and they certainly have the ring of plausibility--then it follows that mainstream institutional Christianity, Catholic and Protestant alike, needs to reflect seriously on both its style and convictions.  If it's become so indifferent to its own message that it finds enthusiastic support of that message distasteful, things have reached a sorry state.  In predicting the rise of a &quot;southern&quot; Christendom, then, Jenkins has done more than suggested a demographic migration.  He's also implicitly invited &quot;northern&quot; Christians to take a hard look at themselves and their beliefs, and ultimately to cut bait or fish.<br />Jenkins is a good writer with a fluid and lively style.  The first four chapters, in which he makes the statistical and demographic case for his predictions, are nonetheless rather slow-going.  Readers with no head (or patience) for statistical tables might wish to read the first two chapters and then skip immediately to Chapter 5.Jenkins is a good writer with a fluid and lively style.  The first four chapters, in which he makes the statistical and demographic case for his predictions, are nonetheless rather slow-going.  Readers with no head (or patience) for statistical tables might wish to read the first two chapters and then skip immediately to Chapter 5.	2002-06-20
US	52797417	R3AONVXNPESVK2	1565845943	669231620	Economic Apartheid in America: A Primer on Economic Inequality & Insecurity	Books	4	20	20	N	Y	An informative and helpful overview	...<br />Collins and Yeskel do a superb job in showing why multinational corporations are progressively extending the gap between rich and poor, both in this country and abroad.  The power of the multinationals is incredible; of the 100 largest economies in the world, 51 are corporate.  Governments increasingly cater to multinationals, rewriting environmental and tax laws in order to encourage them to do business.  Even the supposedly liberal Clinton--who, after all, enthusiastically brought us NAFTA--bought into (or should it be \\"sold out to\\") the corporate line that \\"the business of government is business.\\"  This attitude creates huge wealth for a very few, but the old claim that this wealth trickles down to benefit others is simply false, and Collins and Yeskel give facts and figures to demonstrate its falsity.<br />In short, the book is an invaluable read for anyone concerned with questions of social justice. sustainability, and old-fashioned economic survival.  It tends to be a bit redundant in places, but this may be more of a merit than otherwise in a primer that really does summarize a dizzying amount of information.  Readers who wish to explore the case against multinationals in more depth may wish to consult works like Derber's *Corporation Nation* or Korten's *When Corporations Rule the World.*  E.F. Schumacher's classic *Small Is Beautiful* is also still well worth taking a look at.	2002-06-20
US	52797417	R1I62XNCCZFUA1	0385487525	295630308	The Powers That Be: Theology for a New Millennium	Books	5	117	123	N	Y	A profoundly important book	If I had to pick the best theology books of the past twenty-five years, Walter Wink's *Powers that Be* would be close to the top of the list.  It does nothing less than revolutionize the way Christians have come to think of their role in the world.  But when I say \\"revolutionize,\\" what I really mean--and this is Wink's contention as well--is that it \\"reminds\\" Christians of the original message brought by Jesus and accepted by the early Church.  And that message is that nonviolence, not violence, is not only what God expects, but also what ultimately works in the world.<br />Wink argues that humans live under \\"domination systems\\"--the \\"powers and principalities that be.\\"  These are the structural and ideological institutions that manipulate our minds, lives, and activities, reduce our freedom, and retard our flourishing.  As Christians, we're called to resist them without buying into the \\"myth of redemptive violence\\"--the centuries' old chestnut that violence is the only kind of force that works, and that because it works it justifies itself.  Jesus showed an alternative way--the path of nonviolent resistance.<br />In examining nonviolent resistance, Wink is masterful.  He persuasively destroys the stereotype of nonviolence as a turn-the-other-cheek passivity by exploring what Jesus really meant when he advocated cheek-turning or walking the second mile.  Along the way, he offers one of the most insightful analysis of the post-Jesus \\"just war doctrine\\" I've ever read.  Wink is realistic enough to not completely reject the doctrine.  But he does suggest that we quit using it as a justification for war and begin thinking of it instead in terms of \\"violence-reduction criteria.\\"<br />An amazing book that every Christian ought to read and meditate on, particularly now that the dogs of war are baying loudly.  I give it ten stars.	2002-06-20
US	52797417	RDXLM49UBHGKQ	0618219226	306036293	All We Know of Heaven: A Novel	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The human side of saints	Too many of us, I suspect, tend to think that men and women who live cloistered lives are so otherworldly that they walk a few inches off the ground.  This view of monastic life is also what makes it so attractive to a layperson worn out by the secular rat race.  The monastery seems to offer a haven from everyday hassles, providing a tranquill setting that brings out the best in a person, allows him or her to touch base with what's really important, and get in touch with the inner self and with God.<br />Bosh!  This way of thinking of monastic life is too precious to be true, and one of the merits of Rougeau's wonderful *All We Know of Heaven* is to throw water on that sacred cow.  His novel--really, a collection of short story-like vignettes that revolve around the monastic experiences of a young Trappist novice--shows that monks are just like the rest of us:  overworked, underappreciated, itchy from sexual urges, idiosyncratic, lovable at times, irritating at others, and always deeply, deeply interesting.  The vignettes and their assortment of delightfully oddball characters remind us that the human search for God is always located in a specific place and time and personality.  Saints aren't etherial types who walk an inch off the ground.  They're folks who, in spite of their oddities and flaws, embrace their hunger for God and remain loyal to it.  In reading the stories of these monks, we read stories about ourselves.<br />A very good book, reminiscent in places of Evelyn Waugh's tone and dry humor.  It's not uncommon for monks to write books about the spiritual life, but it's rare for them to write novels.  Remy Rougeau has broken that barrier in fine style here.	2002-06-20
US	52797417	R1OEGF0BDI2ZPX	1568582242	959966192	My Father's War: A Memoir	Books	1	7	20	N	N	A &quot;respectable&quot; kiss-and-tell	I hated this book, and as I read it I found myself increasingly angry with Julia Collins, the author.  I picked it up presuming that it would be the story of how war destroyed a man, an ordinary, representative guy in the street, thereby shedding light on the horrible way in which violence continues to brutalize even after the shooting stops.  I anticipated something along the lines of J. Glenn Gray's *The Warriors:  Reflections on Men in Battle.*  At the very least, given that the subject of the book was the author's father, I expected a sensitive treatment.<br />But I'm afraid that my overall impression is one of opportunism.  Collins is furious with her father because his haunting memories of WWII blemished her childhood.  In an attempt to purge herself of her anger, she publishes letters he wrote from the Pacific Theater, letters so intensely personal that the reader feels a certain embarrassment in reading them.  This turning her father into a public spectacle, parading his demons for all the world to see, seems to offer Collins some kind of therapy, allowing her to come to terms with her father for &quot;wrecking&quot; her childhood.  It also, incidentally, allows her to write a book and make some money by cashing in on her father's tormented life.  What a daughter.<br />There is no broader message in this book about war or the way violence shatters lives.  This is simply a National Inquirer confessional--&quot;Papa Dearest,&quot; if you will, made respectable by the daughter's rather tiresome earnestness.  Give it a miss.	2002-06-16
US	52797417	R2EHXFBYHYMRFW	0316973742	465404562	The Gospel of Judas: A Novel	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Too much or too little:  take your pick	Simon Mawr is ambitious.  In his *Gospel of Judas*, he wants nothing less than to paint a portrait of post-Christian doubt.  The main character, Father Leo Newman, is an everyperson who represents those of us in the earlier 21 century who can no longer believe in the old religion and are forced to create new identities for themselves (the name &quot;Newman&quot; isn't accidental).  As such, the novel is a kind of spiritual fin de siecle.<br />Although this theme isn't exactly a new one, the spin that Mawr puts on it is quite wonderful:  what happens to a man--to a culture--already on the religious edge when a new &quot;gospel&quot; is discovered that claims to have been written by Judas Iscariot and gives eyewitness testimony AGAINST the Resurrection?<br />The good news, then, is the exciting concept that inspires the novel.  The bad news, I fear, is that Mawr couldn't quite pull it off.  The novel reads as if there are two books crammed into one:  Newman's unhappy love affair with Madeleine Brewer, and Newman's involvement in the discovery and translation of the Judas Gospel.  Either tale is a stand-alone novel.  Shoved together, neither quite comes off.  Too much time is dedicated to the love affair, too little to the gospel, such that the last 50 pages are breathless, as if Mawr is furiously trying to tie all the loose ends together.  Nor does it help that Mawr tries to weave together two different sets of flashbacks into the story line.<br />One of the casualties of this shaky structure is Father Leo himself, who comes across as a curiously wooden figure.  We never quite understand who or what he is.  Nor is his enigmatic nature, I believe, intentional on Mawr's part.  It comes from the fact that Newman isn't fully developed as a literary character, and that in turn comes from the fact that the novel is either too long or too short, depending on your perspective.  Either separate its two tales, or extend the narrative far enough to do justice to them both.<br />Still, Mawr is a wonderful wordsmith who can do beautiful and sometimes breathless things with the language.  Moreover, the female characters in this novel are masterfully portrayed, particularly Magda.  *The Gospel of Judas* is flawed, but it's well worth a read./>Still, Mawr is a wonderful wordsmith who can do beautiful and sometimes breathless things with the language.  Moreover, the female characters in this novel are masterfully portrayed, particularly Magda.  *The Gospel of Judas* is flawed, but it's well worth a read.	2002-06-16
US	52797417	R1GKDXH0LVNY0H	0679779124	450676102	Violence: Reflections on a National Epidemic	Books	2	65	85	N	N	Disappointing	James Gilligan's *Violence* is a provocative read.  The author is absolutely correct when he sees violence as a problem of epidemic proportions.  His interpretation of violence as a disease and consequent search for the best preventive medicine strategies to counteract it, is also potentially fruitful.  Finally, Gilligan's claim that the root cause of violence is shame is intriguing and well worth taking seriously--although not, perhaps, as seriously as Gilligan wishes.<br />Having said this, however, there are serious flaws in this book.  In the first place, it's horribly written and horribly edited.  The book is over-long, maddeningly redundant, and choppy in presentation.  Gilligan's central shame thesis is repeated again and again; Chapter 5 is basically a rewrite of Chapters 2 and 3; chapter 4 could've been condensed into a couple of paragraphs; the Prologue and Epilogue are over-long and rather gratuitous; and to top everything off, Gilligan writes Chapter 5 as if it's the real beginning of the book (which it actually is), even including an Introduction-like summary of the chapters that follow.  It's as if he combined two manuscripts to make one book.  The poor style of presentation is enough to cause even patient and sympathetic readers to hair-pull.<br />Moreover, it's difficult to see that Gilligan really establishes his central thesis: that shame is the root of violence.  I would argue that he begs the question, ignoring as he does the obvious point that not all experiences of shame result in recognizable violence.  Sometimes--perhaps usually, as a matter of fact--shame leads to renewed determination to succeed in order to redeem past offences.  (The schoolchild &quot;shamed&quot; by a poor grade can resolve to study real hard in order to show her classmates, teacher, and parents that in fact she's got what it takes.)  What Gilligan doesn't do is to explain how it's possible that some shame experiences lead to violence and others don't.  But without an attempt to make sense of this, the whole thesis collapses.  What appears to really be at stake, then, isn't whether violence is caused by shame, but why most people who experience shame don't turn to violence.<br />Still, Gilligan is to be commended for his insight that there's at least some connection between shame and violence, even if he overplays it.  My guess is that the soul-killing varieties of shame he discusses in Chapter 2 best fit his model, and he's actually at his best when discussing them.  Moreover, his thesis raises intriguing possibilities for national and international public policy, as well as personal relationships and educational reform.  If Gilligan is even partly correct, we might be able to go a good way toward reducing violence between individuals, classes, and nations by making sure that social and economic structures that &quot;dis&quot; others are reformed.<br />Despite my criticisms, I recommend this book.  Gilligan comes across as a compassionate and concerned man, and his book, if read judiciously, contributes to the continuing dialogue about violence and nonviolence.empt to make sense of this, the whole thesis collapses.  What appears to really be at stake, then, isn't whether violence is caused by shame, but why most people who experience shame don't turn to violence.<br />Still, Gilligan is to be commended for his insight that there's at least some connection between shame and violence, even if he overplays it.  My guess is that the soul-killing varieties of shame he discusses in Chapter 2 best fit his model, and he's actually at his best when discussing them.  Moreover, his thesis raises intriguing possibilities for national and international public policy, as well as personal relationships and educational reform.  If Gilligan is even partly correct, we might be able to go a good way toward reducing violence between individuals, classes, and nations by making sure that social and economic structures that &quot;dis&quot; others are reformed. <br />Despite my criticisms, I recommend this book.  Gilligan comes across as a compassionate and concerned man, and his book, if read judiciously, contributes to the continuing dialogue about violence and nonviolence.	2002-06-02
US	52797417	R166AD5HUZME3U	0863162339	637414763	Chomsky for Beginners (WRITERS AND READERS BEGINNERS DOCUMENTARY COMIC BOOK, 80)	Books	3	26	27	N	N	I'm ambivalent about this one	I'm torn between two sets of reactions to Cogswell's book.  On the one hand, I find it simplistic in places--especially the section on Chomsky's linguistics.  On the other hand, Chomsky's \\"deep grammar\\" model is notoriously difficult, and this book doesn't claim to be anything more than a \\"beginner's\\" guide.  So perhaps this is an excusable flaw.<br />Besides, it's probably the case that curiosity about generative/transformative linguistics isn't what draws most readers to this book.  My guess is that they're primarily interested in Chomsky the political/cultural commentator and activist.  To that end, the book does a much better (although still bare-bones) job of presenting the basics of Chomsky's criticism of the media and his concern that politics is just an extension of corporate interests.  Along the way, it discusses Chomsky's 1966 article \\"The Responsibility of Intellectuals\\" and his 1980s book \\"Manufacturing Consent.\\"  The former, in my opinion one of the best pieces Chomsky's ever written, ought to be required annual reading for every academic in the country.  It might go a long way toward infusing some life into the moribund Ivory Tower (and I speak as one of the Tower's inhabitants).  The second, an expose of media bias, has never been topped as the authoritative analysis of how the media is structurally untrustworthy.  Information is just another commodity in our commodity-driven culture, and is fashioned and sold in order to fit the tastes of the consumer and bring in profits to the manufacturer.  To read *Manufacturing Consent* is to begin the process of seeing the world through one's own eyes, rather than through the eyes of the media.<br />Cogswell's comic book occasionally uses gratingly dated leftist dysphemisms such as \\"goons\\" to describe the powers-that-be, and overdoes the Noam-as-superman cartoon that illustrates the cover.  But if going through this book encourages readers to check out Chomsky's writings themselves, it's well worth reading.<br />One final word:  anyone wanting a timely introduction to Chomsky in his own words might want to consider reading *9/11*, a collection of interviews with Chomsky conducted shortly after last year's terrorist attacks.  The book is vintage Chomsky. His reflections are penetrating, rational, extremely fair-minded.  One of the most refreshing qualities to them--and to most of his other writings--is Chomsky's refusal to fall into leftist stereotypes, slogans, or jargon.  He's a guy who thinks for himself.  He's also an extremely good-hearted human.br />One final word:  anyone wanting a timely introduction to Chomsky in his own words might want to consider reading *9/11*, a collection of interviews with Chomsky conducted shortly after last year's terrorist attacks.  The book is vintage Chomsky. His reflections are penetrating, rational, extremely fair-minded.  One of the most refreshing qualities to them--and to most of his other writings--is Chomsky's refusal to fall into leftist stereotypes, slogans, or jargon.  He's a guy who thinks for himself.  He's also an extremely good-hearted human.	2002-05-26
US	52797417	RKYH54FVWH48V	0802860761	131099875	Writing in the Dust: After September 11	Books	5	55	56	N	Y	A beautifully written, provocatively nuanced book	In this haunting and deeply meditative reflection, Rowan Williams has introduced a badly needed \\"breathing space\\" into the furious debate surrounding the events of 9/11.  \\"Breathing space,\\" in fact, is the central theme that runs through his little book--breathing space as a moment in which time seems to cease, we are caught in a void, and ordinary worries that involve self-concern and competition are momentarily suspended.  Our general strategy is to rush to fill the void; humans (even if not nature) abhor a vacuum.  But Williams encourages us to explore the void, to let it speak to us, to take time to explore its contours, and to allow ourselves the time to think deeply and honestly and compassionately about 9/11.<br />If we embrace the void--the break in our usual ways of thinking about the world--created by 9/11, we just might rethink our conventional attitudes to retaliatory violence, to heroism, to globalism, and to how we relate to strangers.  These are the four themes Williams so provocatively explores.  Retaliatory violence may give us the illusion of control, but it doesn't resolve the brokenness that gives rise to violent eruptions in the first place.  Heroism, as displayed for example by fire fighters and cops in NYC on 9/11, is frequently anonymous and \\"ordinary,\\" rather than the dramatic, fireworks-like military display our culture teaches us to crave.  The global village has shrunk the world to such an extent that we can no longer deny that whatever we do in this country impacts the world and will bring consequences (deserved or not) back upon us.  Consequently, we need to examine our conventionally bordered definitions of responsibility.  Finally, people ought to be seen as they are in themselves, rather than as we symbolically recreate them to fit into our preconceived paradigms.  Terrorists see Americans as spawn of the Great Satan; we see terrorists as agents of inexplicable, unprovoked evil.  With these symbols hiding our true faces from one another, how can genuinely empathic dialogue begin\ between cultures and peoples?<br />If you're looking for quick solutions to the horror and grief that began (for Americans) on 9/11, this book isn't for you.  But if you're in search of a companion who will help you reflect deeply on the implications of 9/11, read Williams.  It might be especially instructive to compare his message to William Bennett's in the recently released *Why We Fight.*  The two go in completely opposite directions.her, how can genuinely empathic dialogue begin\ between cultures and peoples? <br />If you're looking for quick solutions to the horror and grief that began (for Americans) on 9/11, this book isn't for you.  But if you're in search of a companion who will help you reflect deeply on the implications of 9/11, read Williams.  It might be especially instructive to compare his message to William Bennett's in the recently released *Why We Fight.*  The two go in completely opposite directions.	2002-05-09
US	52797417	R3IY9ECAIP9L1Z	1577661834	377842151	Nonviolence in Theory and Practice	Books	4	14	14	N	N	An incredibly good introduction	Robert Holmes has put together a wonderful collection of essays on the topic of nonviolence.  Topics range from religious and philosophical foundations, to the nonviolent philosophies of Gandhi, Tolstoy, and King, Jr., to women and violence, pacifism, and case studies.  The whole is prefaced by a very good Introduction in which Holmes analyzes the different meanings of &quot;nonviolence,&quot; and is ended with a decent bibliography of relevant works on nonviolence.<br />For the beginner, Holmes' anthology admirably makes three essential points about nonviolence:  first, pacifism is one form of nonviolence, but is not identical to nonviolence; second, nonviolence isn't merely abstinence from physical violence; third, violence is not the same as force.  Nonviolent resistance, for example, is clearly an exercise of force.  Keeping points such as these in mind constitutes a good counterweight to the conventional assumption that proponents of nonviolence are quietistic, passive types who suffer any and all injustice.<br />If I have any reservations about this excellent collection, it's that Holmes doesn't do justice to the religious foundations of nonviolence, particularly when it comes to Christianity and Buddhism.  Moreover, his inclusion of parts of Thoreau's &quot;Civil Disobedience&quot; is rather perplexing.  Thoreau (as Holmes admits) was not an advocate of nonviolence.<br />Still, no book can do everything, and this one does much.  Highly recommended.	2002-05-08
US	52797417	RNCLNTYABDQTO	0140195815	767088036	The Gift	Books	3	202	216	N	N	Lovely--but is it Hafiz?	Hafiz has long been one of my favorite poets.  I first discovered him when I was in college via Goethe and Ralph Waldo Emerson, and I've been readng his poems ever since.  Since I am (alas!) without Parsi, I'm unable to read Hafiz in the original, and must rely upon the kindness of translators.<br />Daniel Ladinsky has done an interesting job of rendering Hafiz's verse into English.  Ladinsky has an ear for rhythm and he strikes me as an individual with deep spiritual sensibilities.  When he renders one of Hafiz's couplets as &quot;The body a tree./God a wind&quot;, one senses that there's more going into this translation than just philological expertise.  Landinsky, like Hafiz, is a mystic.<br />That spiritual bond with Hafiz, as well as a shared joy in the sheer vitality of creation, makes Landinsky's renderings light-hearted, in the sense that they shimmer with what Hafiz would call God's Light.  Some of my favorite examples:  &quot;Whenever/God lays His glance/Life starts/Clapping&quot;; &quot;What is the beginning of/Happiness?/It is to stop being/So religious&quot;; &quot;All the talents of God are within you./How could this be otherwise/When your soul/Derived from His/Genes!&quot;<br />But while I can appreciate the lyrical way in which Ladinsky trys to express Hafiz's insights, I do wonder about the reliability of the translations.  They're loaded with modernisms that are somewhat grating after a while:  we're derived from God's &quot;genes,&quot; the sun is &quot;in drag,&quot; characters in the poems &quot;dig potatoes,&quot; the soul visits a &quot;summer camp.&quot;  Moreover, many of the renderings make Hafiz sound suspiciously like a Zen master throwing out koans (an obvious example of this is the poem Ladinsky titles &quot;&quot;Two Giant Fat People&quot;.)  To his credit, Landinsky freely admits in his translator's preface that he's &quot;taken the liberty to play a few of [Hafiz's] lines through a late-night jazz sax instead of from a morning temple drum or lyre.&quot;  But he's unapologetic, claiming that the translator's job is to help Hafiz's spirit &quot;come across&quot; to the Parsi-less reader, and that this demands a free rendering.<br />I'm not so sure.  This attitude strikes me as rather patronizing to the reader and disloyal to Hafiz himself.  So my bottom line is this:  Ladinsky's book is a good read on both poetical and spiritual grounds.  But I'm forever left in doubt as to whether I'm reading Ladinsky or Hafiz.drum or lyre.&quot;  But he's unapologetic, claiming that the translator's job is to help Hafiz's spirit &quot;come across&quot; to the Parsi-less reader, and that this demands a free rendering.<br />I'm not so sure.  This attitude strikes me as rather patronizing to the reader and disloyal to Hafiz himself.  So my bottom line is this:  Ladinsky's book is a good read on both poetical and spiritual grounds.  But I'm forever left in doubt as to whether I'm reading Ladinsky or Hafiz.	2002-05-03
US	52797417	RBPXNG9EBXRY6	1570754306	623966871	I'd Rather Teach Peace	Books	5	41	41	N	N	A gem of a book	Most of us know Colman McCarthy as a perceptive and sensitive journalist and religious commentator.  But what we may not know is that he's also a devoted teacher of peace issues and peacemaking--so devoted, in fact, that he gave up his position at the &quot;Washington Post&quot; to devote himself full time to teaching.  Moreover, he's taught in an amazing variety of contexts:  university law schools, colleges, correctional institutions, inner city schools, suburb schools, alternative schools, public schools.<br />*I'd Rather Teach Peace* is a running account of some of McCarthy's experiences at the various places he's taught peace.  Three features make the book especially worthwhile.  The first is McCarthy's wonderfully flowing style.  Reading his prose is like having a conversation with a person who loves words and people.  The second is McCarthy's reflections on peace and peacemaking, and why so few folks in this country take either very seriously.  But the third feature--and, for my money, the heart of the book--is the story of McCarthy's adventures in the classroom, chatting with kids about peace, overcoming their resistance, learning from their experiences, challenging them to think outside the box.  McCarthy clearly teaches peacemaking as a way of life, not merely a cessation of war, and one of the first conditions is that his students begin to ask themselves some tough questions about how and why they value what they do.  In reading his accounts, we find ourselves in the classroom with him and his students.<br />Professional teachers (and I'm one of them) will profit from the pedagogical strategies that McCarthy writes about.  My favorite one, an exercise for encouraging students to reflect on the meaning of authority, is the &quot;red car, green car game.&quot;  Excellent!	2002-04-30
US	52797417	R2M3QNWAFX96V1	0028632613	330704435	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Middle East Conflict	Books	3	62	96	N	N	Caveat emptor	I bought this book because I thought it might be a good candidate as a text for a college course I'm teaching next fall.  What I was looking for was a straightforward account of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict that laid the bare essentials on the table so that novices could get a good overview.<br />To a certain extent, Bard does this.  In keeping with the \\"Idiot's Guide\\" format, he tries his best to reduce huge gobs of information into digestible bites, and he frequently manages to pull it off.  But people thinking about buying this book need to be aware that there's a clear pro-Israeli bias reflected in it.  Again and again the Palestinians are portrayed as the culprits who break peace agreements and kill Israelis, while the Israelis are viewed for the most part as patient but beleaguered heroes.<br />Don't misunderstand me.  I'm not pro-Palestinian in this conflict.  The whole mess in the Middle East is just too complicated to take sides in a knee-jerk fashion.  There is right on both sides, but both sides also have committed acts that are vile and shameful.  My problem with Bard's book isn't, then, that he defends a slant with which I disagree.  My problem is that his book isn't the balanced account the publisher leads you to think it is.  But since both Bard and a close technical reviewer of the book are associates with pro-Israeli groups, I suppose the slant is predictable.<br />I won't be using this as one of my texts in the fall.  But it's still worth taking a quick look at by anyone interested in the Middle East conflict--just so long as you keep in mind that Bard is spinning as well as describing.	2002-04-18
US	52797417	RK5Q8H9K4M8YS	1891620959	214492850	The Body and the Blood: The Holy Land at the Turn of a New Millennium: A Reporter's Journey	Books	4	15	21	N	N	A noble effort	Charles Sennott, who describes himself as a &quot;lapsed Catholic,&quot; has written a beautiful and at times heartbreaking book about his pilgrimage through the Holy Land in search of Christians.  On the surface, this seems a strange way of putting the matter:  surely the Holy Land is precisely where one can find Christians!  But as Sennott points out, &quot;Holy Land&quot; is an ambiguous expression which immediately raises the question &quot;Whose Holy Land?&quot;  And in the current demographic landscape, Jews and Muslims increasingly populate and predominate.<br />In searching out and telling the stories of some of the remaining Christians, Sennott does a remarkable job of weaving together commentary on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, relations between the three Abrahamic religions, the possibility of peace in the Middle East, and the role of that spiritual beliefs play in a world too preoccupied with  power politics.  His cameos of individual Christians, Palestinian and otherwise, are wonderful, and his autobiographical musings on how his pilgrimage is influencing his own inner life worth reflecting on.<br />Sennott is also a good writer, as you would expect a journalist to be.  My only complaint about the book is that it's too long, as so many books by journalists seem to be these days.  But the judicious reader can read some parts intensely while scanning others, and find the book more than worthwhile.	2002-04-18
US	52797417	R1HQ7CDG48OM8T	0970711808	975170011	Veggie Soup for the Chicken's Soul : Shameless Visions and Prayers for World Peace, Inner Peace, and Animal Liberation	Books	5	8	9	N	N	It's all one piece	This is a wonderful resource for anyone with the intuition that spirituality is a seamless garment that necessarily respects all life.  World peace isn't just the cessation of humans warring against other humans; it's also the end of human deprecations against animals.  In this cleverly titled work, Judy McCoy Carman helps us come to a better appreciation of that truth by reminding us in beautiful reflections and heartfelt prayers that all life is sacred.  Highly recommended as a book to meditate on.	2002-03-31
US	52797417	RATXNF5J0GYUO	069108923X	461481039	One True God: Historical Consequences of Monotheism.	Books	2	14	28	N	N	Why (some) sociologists ought not to do theology	Stark's account of monotheism reads as if it could've been written in the 18th century, when the newly born Enlightenment mind was energetic and crowingly confident in its ability to demystify religion.  It has an air of no-nonsense social science analysis about it.  Unfortunately, it also has an air of extreme naivete.<br />Stark takes as his subject matter the social consequences of monotheistic religion, claiming that the issue of whether God actually exists is unimportant and undiscoverable.  His basic conclusions are two:  (1)  people gravitate toward religion because it promises them something they want--one might call this a &quot;consumer mentality,&quot; although Stark himself doesn't use such a label; and (2) monotheistic religions, insofar as each of them claims to be the exclusive sellers of what people want, necessarily breed intolerance.<br />The problem is that neither of these claims really stand up as straight as Stark wants them to.  Surely, for example, there are many reasons why people accept religious beliefs.  Some of them may be as crassly consumerist as Stark maintains, but others aren't.  Many people gravitate toward religious belief out of a sheer sense of wonderment, or love, or joy.  these motives don't fit nicely into Stark's gameplan, and  had he even a passing acquaintance with spiritual autobiographies or the tradition of mystical literature in the three Abrahamic religions, he'd have known this.  Moreover, if one questions his claim that the draw of monotheistic religions is primarily giving people what they want, then his claim that the traditions are necessarily intolerant because competing against one another likewise becomes problematic.<br />Stark, a self-styled agnostic, argues that his agnosticism allows him to look upon the phenomenon of religion  objectively.  One wonders, however.  It's clear that the underlying text throughout *One True God* is the old Enlightenment assumption that religious monotheists are either incredibly irrational or selfish or frightened.  And in an enlightened world in which everything is perfectly explicable in terms of social analysis, how can one take such religious worldviews seriously?<br />A sociologist who offers much more reflective accounts of religion is Peter Berger.  Read Stark if you wish, but then turn to Berger.ibly irrational or selfish or frightened.  And in an enlightened world in which everything is perfectly explicable in terms of social analysis, how can one take such religious worldviews seriously?<br />A sociologist who offers much more reflective accounts of religion is Peter Berger.  Read Stark if you wish, but then turn to Berger.	2002-03-26
US	52797417	R2WPKFUWZ4OID8	0761536418	268587681	The Real Lincoln: A New Look at  Abraham Lincoln, His Agenda, and an Unnecessary War	Books	4	627	751	N	N	A hackle-raiser for sure!	If there are any sacred cows in America, the one at the head of the herd has got to be Abraham Lincoln.  Our culture gleefully villifies almost everyone.  Psycho-biographies, in which the darkest interior rooms of the subject are exposed to light, are the rage these days.  But somehow Lincoln for the most part has managed to escape all this.  He's still the great American hero, venerated by layperson and scholar alike, sometimes to the point of embarrassing hagiography.  (I once knew a history professor, for example, who insisted that students refer to Lincoln, both in class discussions and in term papers, as \\"MR. Lincoln.\\"  His class could just as well have been offered by the theology department.)<br />Thomas DiLorenzo refuses to genuflect before Lincoln's altar.  In *The Real Lincoln*, a book that's guaranteed to infuriate a wide audience, ranging from Civil War buffs to Lincoln scholars to African-Americans to political liberals to history traditionalists, DiLorenzo claims that Lincoln's real historical legacy is the strong centralized state that characterizes the American political system today.  From first to last, claims DiLorenzo, Lincoln's political vision was the creation of a Whiggish empire of protectionist tariffs, government subsidized railroads, and nationalization of the money supply.  In the first year and a half of his administration, he pushed through much of this agenda.  The average tariff rate tripled, railroads began raking in government money (a \\"war necessity\\"), and the National Currency Acts monopolized the money supply.<br />So far none of this is terribly alarming.  Even admirers of Lincoln will admit much of what DiLorenzo says about Lincoln's economic dream and Whig leanings.  But where DiLorenzo begins to stir up a storm is when he claims (1) that Lincoln basically allowed an unnecessary and horribly bloody war to occur in order to further his political vision of a strong state; (2) Lincoln was a \\"constitutional dictator\\"; and (3) Lincoln was never terribly concerned with slavery as a moral injustice.<br />In reference to the first point, DiLorenzo points out that the right to secession was simply taken for granted by most Americans prior to Lincoln's administration because they saw the country as a voluntary association of states.  Lincoln didn't \\"save\\" the Union so much as he destroyed it as a voluntary association.  In reference to the second point, DiLorenzo provides example after example of Lincoln's disregard--supposedly in the interests of the state--for the Constitution:  launching a military invasion without Congressional consent; suspension of habeas corpus;  censorship of newspapers; meddling with elections; confiscating private property; and so on.  Finally, in reference to the last point--which is probably the book's most inflammatory one--DiLorenzo argues that Lincoln rarely mentioned the issue of slavery in political speeches until it became politically expedient to begin doing so.  His opposition to slavery was always based on what he feared was its economic dangers, not on moral principle.  As his contemporaries accurately noted, Lincoln the \\"Great Emancipator\\"  was never an abolitionist.  Even after the Emancipation Proclamation, he was willing to tolerate slaveholding in nonsecessionist states.  His ultimate solution--one that infuriated abolitionists such as Horace Greeley--was to colonize American blacks \\"back\\" to Africa or the Caribbean.<br />Much of DiLorenzo's claims about Lincoln's activities will be familiar.  What's new about the book is the overall unfavorable portrait of Lincoln that emerges as DiLorenzo discusses them.  It may be the case that DiLorenzo has  swung too far in the opposite direction from conventional Lincoln hagiography.  But it may also be the case that his book will encourage more moderate and accurate portrayals of Lincoln in the future.  One can admire Lincoln without worshipping him.oln was never terribly concerned with slavery as a moral injustice.  <br />In reference to the first point, DiLorenzo points out that the right to secession was simply taken for granted by most Americans prior to Lincoln's administration because they saw the country as a voluntary association of states.  Lincoln didn't \\"save\\" the Union so much as he destroyed it as a voluntary association.  In reference to the second point, DiLorenzo provides example after example of Lincoln's disregard--supposedly in the interests of the state--for the Constitution:  launching a military invasion without Congressional consent; suspension of habeas corpus;  censorship of newspapers; meddling with elections; confiscating private property; and so on.  Finally, in reference to the last point--which is probably the book's most inflammatory one--DiLorenzo argues that Lincoln rarely mentioned the issue of slavery in political speeches until it became politically expedient to begin doing so.  His opposition to slavery was always based on what he feared was its economic dangers, not on moral principle.  As his contemporaries accurately noted, Lincoln the \\"Great Emancipator\\"  was never an abolitionist.  Even after the Emancipation Proclamation, he was willing to tolerate slaveholding in nonsecessionist states.  His ultimate solution--one that infuriated abolitionists such as Horace Greeley--was to colonize American blacks \\"back\\" to Africa or the Caribbean.<br />Much of DiLorenzo's claims about Lincoln's activities will be familiar.  What's new about the book is the overall unfavorable portrait of Lincoln that emerges as DiLorenzo discusses them.  It may be the case that DiLorenzo has  swung too far in the opposite direction from conventional Lincoln hagiography.  But it may also be the case that his book will encourage more moderate and accurate portrayals of Lincoln in the future.  One can admire Lincoln without worshipping him.	2002-03-26
US	52797417	R1TM3XNYFG77BA	1556127715	745227229	Peace Behind Bars: A Peacemaking Priest's Journey from Jail	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	Four walls do--and don't--a prison make	John Dear is a youngish Jesuit priest who's the clear successor to the Berrigan brothers when it comes to peace activism.  Past director of the Fellowship of Reconciliation, author, speaker, agitator, Dear is also a graceful and sensitive author.  His *Peace Behind Bars*, the journal he kept in prison, is my favorite.  It's an utterly honest, utterly human, document.<br />Dear spent 8 months in a North Carolina jail after his conviction for a Plowshare action.  His journal is a record of the time there, which he shared with Phil Berrigan.  The journal doesn't whitewash how trapped and hopeless Dear at times feels.  He's honest enough with us and himself not to try to play the hero.  Reading the book at times gives one an uncomfortable sense of sympathetic claustrophobia.  But the journal also attests to Dear's discovery that the suffering God he serves is also found in prison--and, indeed, perhaps best found in prison.  Here, for example, is what Dear writes on Christmas Day, 1993:  \\"Being in jail on Christmas is not just counter-cultural, but anti-cultural.  The culture has no sense of Christ's spirit.  People spend billions of dollars in an orgy of consumerism, exchanging presents while ignoring the plight of the poor and the demands of discipleship.\\"  Imprisonment gives one the distance from that culture to remember that Christmas is about this:  \\"God has become human, and it follows that all human life is sanctified.\\"  (p. 44)<br />I can think of few spiritual memoirs that are up to the high standard of stuff written by Dorothy Day, Thomas Merton, or Henri Nouwen.  This is one of them, even though it hasn't received the attention it deserves.  Highly, enthusiastically, recommended.	2002-03-25
US	52797417	R1WQNNM06816O9	156025405X	513224163	Perpetual War for Perpetual Peace: How We Got to Be So Hated	Books	5	138	148	N	N	Agree with it or not, a message we need to hear	Gore Vidal has been a pain in the establishment's keester for fifty-odd years, and his gadflying has gotten sharper, pithier, and more valuable with the passing of each year.  In this latest collection of essays, he dares to say something that many Americans are uneasily beginning to suspect but haven't yet dared to utter out loud:  the reason \\"they\\"--the terrorists--hate us \\"so much\\" is at least partly because we're sometimes...well...hateable.<br />Vidal's *Perpetual War for Perpetual Peace* collects a handful of his recent essays ranging on topics from the presidential election of 2000, to homegrown terrorism a la Timothy McVeigh, to the moralizing conservatism of mainstream America, to an open letter to the FBI on whether McVeigh was acting alone.  All of these pieces have been published previously, and indeed, some of them appeared in Vidal's last collection of essays, *The Last Empire* (2001).  What's truly new and exciting about this book is its lead essay, hauntingly entitled \\"September 11, 2001 (A Tuesday)\\".  Vidal tells us in his Introduction that the piece was originally commissioned by \\"Vanity Fair,\\" but was refused publication because the editors thought it too inflammatory.<br />Inflammatory it unquestionably is, because in it Vidal argues for a thesis that is unpopular at the moment but just may make more sense as time goes on: that horrible as the terrorist attacks on the Trade Towers was, the Bush administration's high-handed wrestling to the ground of civil liberties in the attack's wake is worse.  Vidal argues that the waging of war by the \\"Pentagon junta\\" is but another example of the U.S.'s misguided tendency to \\"wage war to perpetuate peace\\"--a misbegotten policy that has earned the violent dislike of terrorists like Osama bin Laden and Timothy McVeigh as well as the diplomatic disdain of much of the world.  (At the end of the essay, Vidal provides an instructive 20-page account of U.S. military operations since 1949.)  Vidal agrees that bin Laden needs to be brought to justice, but he argues that a police action, not all-out war, is the answer.  The cowboy-style military campaign is only bound to make a bad situation worse.  It may snuff out bin Laden (although even this isn't guaranteed), but as is the way with military actions, will inevitably generate more anger and resentment.<br />This book is bound to infuriate many American readers, even though I understand it's been a best-seller in Europe.  I'm not sure I agree with everything Vidal has to say.  Occasionally he's long on accusation and short on evidence.  But the book deserves reading if for no other reason than it has the courage to ask us not to take for granted the virtue of our foreign policy in general and our reaction to terrorism in particular.den needs to be brought to justice, but he argues that a police action, not all-out war, is the answer.  The cowboy-style military campaign is only bound to make a bad situation worse.  It may snuff out bin Laden (although even this isn't guaranteed), but as is the way with military actions, will inevitably generate more anger and resentment.<br />This book is bound to infuriate many American readers, even though I understand it's been a best-seller in Europe.  I'm not sure I agree with everything Vidal has to say.  Occasionally he's long on accusation and short on evidence.  But the book deserves reading if for no other reason than it has the courage to ask us not to take for granted the virtue of our foreign policy in general and our reaction to terrorism in particular.	2002-03-25
US	52797417	R1HVDHM1VHEXFK	060980281X	938376918	The Consumer's Guide to Effective Environmental Choices: Practical Advice from The Union of Concerned Scientists	Books	4	40	42	N	Y	You really CAN make a difference!	If you're like me, you feel overwhelmed at times with environmental problems:  global warming, water depletion and pollution, ozone alerts, animal waste runoff, garbage, plastic, etc. etc.  So much seems to be broken that it's difficult to figure out what to begin fixing--especially when you're just an average consumer.  Where to begin?  And even if you do begin, can you really make a difference?<br />The virtue of this *Consumer's Guide* is that the authors help us separate the urgent from the not-so-urgent, the easily doable from the this'll-take-more-time-and-effort.  They pinpoint three major areas in our consumption in which we can make immediate changes that really do impact for the better on the environment:  vehicle usage, how we heat/cool our homes,and what we eat.  Almost all of us use our cars more than we need to, and a growing number of us have vehicles much larger than we really need; all of us can do better about insulating our homes, cutting down on electricity, and using environmental-friendly appliances; and we don't really need to eat as much meat as we do--growing food animals is a colossal waste of grain protein as well as a major water and air polluter.<br />Just as handy, the *Consumer Guide* gives tips for social and political as well as individual action.  Changing one's own behavior is essential; but building coalitions with others and putting pressure on corporations and the government to be more eco-responsible is essential too.<br />Finally, Susan Strasser's concluding essay, &quot;From Walden to Wal-Mart,&quot; a reflective analysis of our consumerist culture, is by itself worth the price of the book.  Very nice indeed!<br />So get this book, read it, and take hope:  you CAN make a difference!	2002-03-25
US	52797417	R1P6FUUTJN0SJC	1931082103	380823207	Mark Twain: The Gilded Age and Later Novels: The Gilded Age / The American Claimant / Tom Sawyer Abroad / Tom Sawyer, Detective / No. 44, The Mysterious Stranger (Library of America)	Books	5	18	22	N	N	Be afraid--be very, very afraid	I have to confess that I seem to be about the only person on the face of the planet who's not a big Mark Twain fan.  But after the Enron debacle, and in light of the affluenza sweeping our consumerist society, I recently went back to reread *The Gilded Age*.  The more things change, the more they stay the same!  Twain's dissection of unscrupulous tycoons wanting to get richer, corrupt senators jumping in bed with the tycoons by cutting them sweet political deals, and get-rich crazy middle class types who kiss up for their cut of the pie could've all been taken from last night's news.  A brilliant and occasionally hilarious portrait of what happens to individuals in a souless age mesmerized by the almighty buck.  A good warning to us today.  I wish it could be required reading for everybody coming of age in these fast-paced times.  (It's probably too late to do much good for Enron-type execs.)<br />One of the bonuses of this Library of America edition is that it includes *The American Claimnant,* a sequel to *Gilded Age*.  I'd never heard of it before, and in all honesty didn't enjoy it as much as *Gilded*.  But it's a good read for anybody with an afternoon of leisure time.	2002-03-24
US	52797417	RDUQY4PB97AER	031228358X	815010699	The Unhealed Wound: The Church and Human Sexuality	Books	4	20	30	N	N	Incredibly timely	With the American Catholic Church rocking from its biggest (and, unfortunately, still growing) sex scandal ever, Eugene Kennedy's book is a timely and welcome reflection.<br />The basic thesis defended by Kennedy is that sexual transgressions committed by priests are, for the most part, not because the individual transgressors are wicked men, but because their sexuality has been warped by repressive power structures within the Church.  Claiming that the insistence on clerical celibacy is both unnatural and unscriptural, Kennedy argues that the Church insists upon it primarily as a way of exerting power.  This is an institutional mechanism, part of the way in which the curial structure maintains itself, and not the premeditated plan of a secretive group of men in red.<br />Kennedy's analysis is well worth taking seriously, although I suspect he overstates his case at times.  The contemporary Church, for example, seems much more open and sensitive to sexuality than did the pre-Vatican II Church.  Today's 50-something priests whose sexual development was traumatized and arrested as adolescent seminarians aren't representative of younger clergy.  Moreover, it's not clear that the elimination of clerical celibacy is the needed restorative to the problem of sexual abuse.  It could be the case that the malaise is spiritual rather than psycho-sexual.<br />Still, Kennedy's book is a good and much needed read.  Highly recommended.	2002-03-24
US	52797417	R1PJAUZS1FVIRY	0140390545	4363483	Mont-Saint-Michel and Chartres (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	90	91	N	N	A disguised autobiography	A reading of Richard Brookhiser's recent (and highly recommended) *America's First Dynasty* sent me back to *Mont Saint Michel and Chartres*, a book I hadn't read in thirty years.  I'm glad I returned to it, because a few years have, I trust, put me in a better position to appreciate what's going on in the book.<br />On one level, the most obvious one, Adam's book is a sometimes idiosyncratic history of Medieval art, literature, and religion that takes as its center of gravity the great Gothic cathedrals of the period--structures that Adams thinks sum up what the middle ages are all about.  To read the book on this level alone is fine.  It provides intriguing insights into, for example, courtly love and the cult of Mary.<br />But I now believe that, at a deeper level, the book is disguised autobiography on the one hand and a backhanded history of Adams's own time on the other.  An at times overwhelming sense of nostalgia permeates the book.  In reading Adams on the 11th century mystics, the debates of the schoolmen, the chansons of the troubadours, and the unified worldview of the middle ages, one can almost hear him sigh with longing to return to a world which, he thinks, was whole, unfractured, and pure--a world, as the medievals themselves would've said, which reflects &quot;integritas.&quot;  This reveals a great deal about the restless, unquiet nature of Henry Adams the man.  But it also reveals the restless, unquiet nature of the modern era which spawned and molded him:  the gilded age, the fast-paced first wave of capitalism, secularism, and consumerism, which has no center of gravity, no art, no tradition.  And even though we claim to be living in a &quot;postmodern&quot; age, it seems to me that a great deal of the qualities Adams deplored in his own times are still with us and account for our own sense of homelessness.<br />*Mont Saint Michel and Chartres,* then, is more than a quaint turn-of-the-last-century history.  Read correctly, it's also a mirror of our present discontent.  Highly recommended.our present discontent.  Highly recommended.	2002-03-23
US	52797417	R3PQ891CR9UACX	0192853449	238756753	The Koran: A Very Short Introduction	Books	4	75	89	N	N	Islam and religious toleration	Let's face it:  most of us who've lately been reading books on Islam and the Qur'an are doing so to understand a religion we for the most part ignored prior to 9/11.  We're putting ourselves through a crash course on Islam and Islamic culture in the hopes that we can figure out what Islam's basic tenets are, and how it is that the Taliban and al-Qaida can claim the religion as their justification for repression and terror.<br />Obviously one of the first places to start is with the Qur'an itself.  But to Westerners who've never opened it, the book can be intimidating and arcane.  Michael Cook's little volume on the Qur'an is a decent introduction to its structure, basic principles, interpretation, and history.<br />Some points in Cook's book are of more immediate service to the beginner than others.  Cook's discussion of the difficulties encountered in translating the Qur'an's Arabic into other languages may not be of great interest to the beginner.  But his overview of the various Muslim schools of exegesis or interpretation certainly will be, for this discussion begins to reveal to the reader that there's no more of a uniform way of reading the Qur'an than there is of reading the Hebrew and Christian Bibles.  As a consequence, Qur'anic verses can mean different things to Muslims coming from different exegetical traditions.  Cook illustrates this point in Chapter 4 by discussing the \\"sword verse\\" (Sura 9:5) and the \\"tribute verse\\" (Sura 9:29).  These two verses are frequently appealed to by commentators on Islam's attitude to \\"infidels.\\"  Cook does a fine job of showing that the verses can be read either as harshly intolerant or as live-and-let-live, depending on how one parses the text.<br />One of the many merits of this short book is that Cook encourages us to think about the meaning of \\"sacred scripture\\" in general.  Whatever else scripture is, regardless of the religious tradition we're talking about, it's fluid and living and multi-layered.  To condemn a sacred text on the basis of a cursory reading and a literal interpretation of a few ambiguous verses is a rush to judgment.cred text on the basis of a cursory reading and a literal interpretation of a few ambiguous verses is a rush to judgment.	2002-03-23
US	52797417	RI9K8Q3FKJ8HE	067003116X	215020323	Report from Ground Zero: The Story of the Rescue Efforts at the World Trade Center	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A totally human document	I must admit that I was leery about this book when I first heard about it.  I feared another sentimentalized, red-white-and-blue tearjerker that takes advantage of the horror of 9/11 to make a few quick bucks.  But it took only a few pages before I realized that Dennis Smith's memoir was an entirely different kind of book.  Emotional it certainly is; sentimental it isn't.  To my mind, it has the horrific honesty and pathos one encounters in the memoirs of Nazi death camp survivors.  One is overwhelmed by its scenes of destruction and anguish and fury.  But, again like memoirs of death camp survivors, the book is a testament to the human spirit, to strength and courage and love and hope.  All in all, exceptionally well done.  Mr. Smith has done for the Trade Towers what John Hersey did for Hiroshima.	2002-03-23
US	52797417	R31FYSJ191KDDS	0964380323	538464823	Augustus Caesar's World	Books	5	82	84	N	Y	Not just for kids!	One of the great bonuses of parenting is that you get to introduce books to your own kids that wowed you when you were a kid yourself.  Sometimes your children love the books as much as you did; sometimes they don't.  But in either case, you get to revisit with old friends and see how much you and they have changed and retained over the years.<br />Some of my best book friends when I was a kid were the wonderful illustrated histories of Genevieve Foster, and the one I loved most was *Augustus Caesar's World.*  I recently introduced it (and a few others:  *Washington's World*, *Lincoln's World*, *John Smith's World*, *Columbus's World*) to my 8 year old, and he's discovering the magic in them I did so many years ago.<br />There are three qualities to *Augustus Caesar's World* that make it so entertaining and educating.  The first is that it's incredibly well written.  Foster has the gift of breathing life into historical accounts.  In reading about Cicero's execution or the life of Siddhartha, for example, one experiences all the dreadful waste of the one and the liberating wonder of the other.  Second, the book is wonderfully illustrated by Foster herself.  The illustrations are themselves instructive:  along with individual scenarios, she provides time-lines, illustrated most fetchingly, that conveniently encapsulate events and persons.  Finally, Foster's histories are really world histories.  In *Augustus Caesar's World,* she focuses on the events leading up to the end of the Roman Republic and the establishment of the Empire (roughly, 44BCE to 14 CE).  But she doesn't limit herself to Roman history; she also examines events taking place across the world during the time frame in which she's working:  the druids in Gaul, Hindus in India, Confucius in China, Mayans in the Americas, and so on.  She even includes intellectual history:  the origins of Christianity and Buddhism, the Upanishadic culture of the Hindus, etc.  Her aim is to give the reader a wide angle of vision, and she succeeds wonderfully.<br />I'm grateful that Foster's histories are being republished.  They don't patronize kids by resorting to silly gimmicks that supposedly make learning more palatable (or at least more marketable).  Instead, they make history fascinating the old fashioned way:  by showing that it's a great story in its own right.  They're a great discovery for my son, and a great rediscovery for me.ision, and she succeeds wonderfully.<br />I'm grateful that Foster's histories are being republished.  They don't patronize kids by resorting to silly gimmicks that supposedly make learning more palatable (or at least more marketable).  Instead, they make history fascinating the old fashioned way:  by showing that it's a great story in its own right.  They're a great discovery for my son, and a great rediscovery for me.	2002-03-23
US	52797417	R33ISQ0ZTQMST	0687361591	516902516	Resident Aliens: A Provocative Christian Assessment of Culture and Ministry for People Who Know that Something is Wrong	Books	5	86	88	N	Y	No more plastic Jesus	&quot;What we call 'church' is too often a gathering of strangers who see the church as yet another 'helping institution' to gratify further their individual desires.&quot; (p. 138)  So say Hauerwas and Willimon in this profoundly disturbing, profoundly liberating book.  Their general thesis is that the church has lost its bearings because it's forgotten its Jesus-centered tradition.  Rather than dwelling within that tradition, realizing that the church's mission is to build community that exemplifies the Kingdom and the Kingdom's values, Christians too frequently accommodate to the world in order to make their beliefs acceptable.  In doing whatever they can to ameliorate the &quot;scandal&quot; of the gospel so as not to offend anyone, they betray the Kingdom and their tradition--and God.<br />This is a disconcerting challenge to those of us who try to be Christians.  Even if one doesn't completely agree with Hauerwas and Willimon--in fact, even if one outright disagrees with them--their message deserves serious consideration.  In grappling with the thorny question of how to live in the world without being of the world--that is, how to be &quot;resident aliens&quot;--they force us to reconsider our commitment to the good news.<br />One of the more interesting aspects of the book is a theme that Hauerwas has discussed in several of his other books:  ethics is primarily a way of seeing the world rather than an objective, rational enterprise.  All ethical systems presuppose a view of reality (even the ones that claim to be rational), and this means that in order to get to the heart of a particular ethics, one must examine the tradition from which it comes.  Hauerwas and Willimon use this model to argue that Christian ethics, which is based on the eschatological tradition outlined in the Sermon on the Mount, simply can't accommodate ethical principles generated in nongospel traditions.  Attempts to do so are misguided.<br />Read this book.  It will upset you, as it has upset me.  But it's a good upset.upset me.  But it's a good upset.	2002-03-22
US	52797417	R88RO0QAI3CYL	0809139987	343183663	Living the Hospitality of God (Robert J. Wicks Spirituality Selections)	Books	4	11	11	N	Y	A new take on homelessness	The philosopher Martin Heidegger once said that homelessness is the contemporary problem par excellence.  His point isn't that there are too many people living on the streets (although, to our undying shame, there are).  Rather, he wants to draw our attention to a deeper malaise:  the alienated sense that there's no safe place in which to dwell, that we no longer understand what it means to have a home.<br />In this short (79 pages) book, Father Lucien Richard explores this theme by focusing on a virtue--hospitality--that both the ancient pagan world and the Christian tradition hold.  Hospitality, kindness to strangers, is only possible when one has a sense of home.  Today, we often think of home as an utterly private enclosure against the world--every person's home is his/her castle, and the world better keep out!  But in fact home ought to be seen as a place where we can grow and develop, and where we can invite others to do likewise.  Until we return to a worthier understanding of home, we can't expect to live up to the virtue of hospitality.<br />Richard's analysis of home and hospitality in terms of mutuality and intimacy not only speaks to us as individuals; it also has obvious implications for social and political situations.  A provocative read far weightier than one might suspect from its size.	2002-03-22
US	52797417	R3LBNRYB3002WY	019513978X	460123736	The Heart and the Fountain: An Anthology of Jewish Mystical Experiences	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Illuminating	Too frequently in this day and age, when the word \\"mysticism\\" is used, what comes to mind is either New Age razzamatazz or Christian unitive experiences such as those described by John of the Cross or Theresa of Avila.  The first trivializes mysticism, the second reduces it to but one kind of experience.  In either case, a long, hallowed, and cross-cultural relationship with God is distorted.<br />Joseph Dan's new anthology on Jewish mysticism is a gem.  In its 50-page Introduction--which by itself is worth the price of the book--he carefully points out that there's more to mysticism than merely unitive experiences, carefully distinguishes the mystical from the religious (without implying that one is \\"better\\" than the other), and explores the relationship between mysticism and language.<br />More specifically, in regards to the Jewish mystical tradition, Dan points out that it's as foolish to identity Kabbalah with Jewish mysticism (a near-ubiquitous confusion) as it is to identify Sufism with Islamic mystical experience.  Different historical periods and different temperaments have given rise to a variety of Jewish mystical approaches.  The virtue of this excellent anthology is to allow these different voices to speak.  Dan offers selections in chronological order, ranging from the earliest Temple writings through the medieval Zohar to modern Hasidism to contemporary Israeli poetry-mysticism.  A beautiful, revelatory book, both for those who know nothing about the Jewish mystical tradition and for those looking for a convenient compendium.  Enthusiastically recommended.	2002-03-13
US	52797417	RYMUQJ2LOA1W8	0670899097	235723201	Dante (Penguin Lives)	Books	4	21	22	N	N	Elusive	Lewis's short biography of Dante is a pleasure to read.  But at the end of it, one discovers that the book's subject is still elusive.  <br />Lewis shines in setting the background against which Dante lived and wrote, helping those who aren't specialists in the tortured politics of 13th and 14th century Florence orient themselves in that whirlwind world.  He also does a good job of describing the passion young Dante acquired for Beatrice and how his love influenced his ambitions as a poet. Finally, Lewis provides a pretty good walkthrough of Dante's poetic journey through hell, purgatory and paradise.  <br />But in all fairness, most people who read this book will probably be more or less familiar with all three of these topics.  My guess is that what they'll yearn for is a better understanding of who Dante the man was, an understanding that plumbs more deeply than the usual stories about Beatrice and Florentine feuds do.  <br />Lewis's book won't help there.  Dante the man remains elusive, hidden behind his poetry and the images.  This isn't necessarily a criticism of Lewis's book.  Dante is something of an enigma, even more so than many other poets.  It may well be that no biographer can reveal Dante as he was to us of us who live today, half a millenium later.	2002-03-13
US	52797417	R3IM43KAD4P8PI	0670899097	235723201	Dante (Penguin Lives)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Elusive	Lewis's short biography of Dante is a pleasure to read.  But at the end of it, one discovers that the book's subject is still elusive.<br />Lewis shines in setting the background against which Dante lived and wrote, helping those who aren't specialists in the tortured politics of 13th and 14th century Florence orient themselves in that whirlwind world.  He also does a good job of describing the passion young Dante acquired for Beatrice and how his love influenced his ambitions as a poet. Finally, Lewis provides a pretty good walkthrough of Dante's poetic journey through hell, purgatory and paradise.<br />But in all fairness, most people who read this book will probably be more or less familiar with all three of these topics.  My guess is that what they'll yearn for is a better understanding of who Dante the man was, an understanding that plumbs more deeply than the usual stories about Beatrice and Florentine feuds do.<br />Lewis's book won't help there.  Dante the man remains elusive, hidden behind his poetry and the images.  This isn't necessarily a criticism of Lewis's book.  Dante is something of an enigma, even more so than many other poets.  It may well be that no biographer can reveal Dante as he was to those of us who live today, half a millenium later.	2002-03-13
US	52797417	R3NYJ53A1IUDHW	1582340285	24938532	The Willow Tree	Books	3	21	22	N	N	Deserves better than the Kirkus Review	Okay, let's face it.  *The Willow Tree* isn't Selby's finest novel.  *Last Exit to Brooklyn* remains his masterpiece, followed closely by *Requiem* and *The Room*. This latest story tends to be a bit maudlin at times, although in the main the actual language is just as gripping and intense as one finds in Selby's other works.  It's a good read, with occasional great moments.<br />The reviewer from Kirkus quoted above breathlessly trashes the book, and snidely concludes that Selby is a one book author.  This piece of invective deserves response.  Even if Selby WERE a one-book-author (which I don't think he is), so what?  My goodness!  How many of us are gifted enough to write even one enduring book in our lifetimes?  Very few.  Yet the reviewer (whom I'm betting is probably a frustrated novelist turned English prof) trivializes such a contribution.  How bizarre!  It's tantamount to saying that had Tolstoy written only *War and Peace,* he's be a loser because \\"only\\" a one-book-author.<br />Liberate yourself from \\"professional\\" literary reviewers, as well as from the commodity ideal of literature, which has it that more is better.  Read Selby and make up your own mind.	2002-03-13
US	52797417	R14A3I4XGLD2WB	0385503954	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	4	42	54	N	N	A Nietzschean novel	Thanks to graffitti artists of the 1960s, everyone's familiar with Nietzsche's quip that \\"God is dead.\\"  But commonplace as this line once was, almost no one ever went on to note what Nietzsche was really saying.  God is dead, he explained, because humans have slain God through indifference and cynicism.  On the one hand, that death is an opportunity for great liberation.  On the other hand, its enormity can paralyze us with fear and guilt, because now that God has been slain, who will forgive God's slayers?  Nietzsche's solution is that the slayers of God must take God's place and recognize themselves as godlike.  But this is easier said than done.  Divinity doesn't fit most of us very well.<br />This is the fundamental dilemma that Ian McEwan wrestles with in his new novel *Atonement*.  The primary character, a novelist, has spent her life inventing fictional lives and plots.  She feels herself possessed with a mighty power, the power of creation--the power, in one way of speaking, of a god.  But how can a god find atonement or reconciliation or forgiveness for a deed of hatred and destruction?  As the novelist-character says at book's end:  \\"how can a novelist achieve atonement when, with her absolute power of deciding outcomes, she is also God?  There is no one, no entity or higher form that she can appeal to, or be reconciled with, or that can forgive her.  There is nothing outside her.  In her imagination she has set the limits and the terms.\\" (p. 350)<br />The plot of *Atonement*, which revolves around the lives of a handful of characters before, during, and after WWII, is the stage upon which McEwan works through the dilemma he poses.  Appropriately, perhaps, he offers no resolution.  For his implication is that the dilemma is still being lived by our culture:  in a day and age in which we've taken ourselves as the ultimate setters of terms and limits, to whom can we possibly appeal for atonement?<br />This is a novel in the great tradition of philosophical fiction popularized a couple of generations ago by the likes of Jean-Paul Sartre, Simone de Beauvoir, and Albert Camus.  Good writing, provocative reflections.fiction popularized a couple of generations ago by the likes of Jean-Paul Sartre, Simone de Beauvoir, and Albert Camus.  Good writing, provocative reflections.	2002-03-12
US	52797417	RW1YE00WIOYT6	0743205650	920202523	Losing My Mind: An Intimate Look at Life with Alzheimer's	Books	5	32	33	N	N	A powerful book	Many of us are willing to put up with a physically debilitating disease.  It's not something we look forward to, but we like to think we'll take it in stride when it comes.  After all, that's part of the price of getting old.  But most of us quake with dread at the thought of losing our mental faculties.  There's something about the thought of no longer being in control on the &quot;inside&quot; that is far more frightening than losing control on the &quot;outside.&quot;<br />In *Losing My Mind,* Thomas Debaggio has voiced those fears for us.  One of this book's many merits is that he never tries to softpedal the horror of what's happening to him.  In this regard, his memoir is very much reminiscent of &quot;Tuesdays with Morrie.*  He describes the personal feeling of disintegration and hopelessness, telling us, himself, and his wife that at times all he wants is to be hugged--the whimper of a lost and frightened child.  He also describes the incredible burden that his illness places on his wife and son; they, after all, will have to deal with the condition long after Thomas is no longer present.  But the book is also a testament to the human spirit and spirituality.  The very fact that Debaggio can write such a moving tale while in the grips of a reason-destroying illness, and still find wonder and beauty and joy and humor in life is well worth pondering.  His memoir will make readers appreciate life and loved ones.	2002-03-12
US	52797417	R2ED2HYRJKWXHR	0393315576	785906115	How to Tell When You're Tired: A Brief Examination of Work (Norton Paperbacks)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A worker-philosopher's reflections	Reg Theriault's book is simply superb--just the right combination of personal anecdote, philosophical reflection, sociological commentary, old-timer's wisdom, and humor.  In reading him, one comes to like Theriault.  He's the sort of guy you wish you could work with on your own job or at least meet after work at the local pub for a couple of beers.<br />Theriault's primary job before retirement was working as a longshoreman in San Francisco.  But he was also a &quot;fruit tramp&quot; (a migrant picker) and an occasional factory worker.  His credentials as a &quot;blue collar worker,&quot; then, are impeccable, and he distills thirty-odd years of experience in heavy physical labor into his book.  His two primary conclusions are these:  (1) salary is important, but freedom is too.  Workers caught in an assembly line kind of job where they're nothing more than anonymous cogs in a Taylorite efficiency machine are more likely to rebel than workers dissatisfied with money.  (2) the relationship between labor and management always reduces to the following dynamic:  &quot;Management is going to get more out of you than it gives in return.  This is a fact of life, and one might as well accept it.  If management does not get more--for instance, if it gets less--then why in the hell should it stick around?  Your goal is to see that management does not get too much more.&quot;  (pp. 96-97)  Both of these conclusions, although they may appear obvious when pointed out, ought to be kept in mind when thinking about working conditions in this country, not to mention the foreign sweatshops that make so many commodities we North Americans buy.<br />Along the way, Theriault reflects on the disappearing blue collar working class; differences between blue and white collar workers; worries that for too many people, work is &quot;a hole in their lives&quot;; tells the hilarious but also poignant story of Billy's lost finger; and reminds us of the good/bad old days of labor by telling old-timer stories told to him when he was a boy.<br />All in all, a remarkable book.  And the photograph on the cover is as gripping an image as I've ever seen.imer stories told to him when he was a boy.<br />All in all, a remarkable book.  And the photograph on the cover is as gripping an image as I've ever seen.	2002-03-10
US	52797417	R1DDMINPOR5Q98	0465017533	246021489	Heartbreak : The Political Memoir Of A Feminist Militant	Books	1	44	79	N	N	Self-indulgence	It's difficult to take this memoir seriously.  It simmers and sometimes boils with anger at a world that appears not to have accepted Andrea Dworkin as the intellectual and moral genius she's confident she is.  Although Ms. Dworkin assures us in passing that she doesn't care whether or not she's understood by others, she clearly does want to be understood.  More precisely, she wants to be admired and adulated  As a consequence, practically every scenario of her life that she writes about in this rather painful book paints her in the role of either self-sacrificing rebel or bloodied victim.  Her high school teachers try to ruin her because she's an independent thinker (as do her professors at Bennington--who, by the way, regularly procure coeds, she says, for visiting dignitaries), Allen Ginsberg mistreats her because she has the courage to condemn his sexual preferences, men attack her because of her crusade against their penchant for pornography and rape, and turncoat women disagree with her because they've sold out to the establishment by becoming \\"compromisers.\\"  But Ms. Dworkin--she manages through sheer force of will to remain pure in the midst of all this corruption.  And lest we be tempted to conclude that her claims to righteousness are self-indulgent back-patting, she assures us that what might be taken for obnoxious self-righteousness in fact is a life-long \\"spartan\\" habit of courageous truth-telling--which has earned her (you guessed it!)the enmity of less truthful compromisers.<br />Oh dear.  What's genuinely \\"heartbreaking\\" about this book is its unintended Dorian Grey transparency.  In reading it we catch a terrible vision of how a lifetime of hatred, anger, and old-fashioned pique ultimately corrode a person's relationship with the world.	2002-03-10
US	52797417	R27S4SHBP17HD0	1570753865	271326046	Confession: Doorway to Forgiveness	Books	4	28	28	N	N	A wonderful reflection on spiritual wholeness	Jim Forest opens his new book with the following tale.  It seems that a young priest in the feel-good 1970s was so taken with the latest bestseller *I'm Okay, You're Okay* that he gave it a rave review in one of his sermons.  Afterwards, an old parishioner acknowledged that the book was probably a good one, but added this:  \\"I kept thinking of Christ on the Cross saying to those who were watching him die, 'If everybody's okay, what in blazes am I doing up here?'\\"<br />This wonderful story sets the stage for Forest's wide-ranging reflections on confession.  He isn't content merely to examine confession as a sacrament.  Instead, he correctly sees confession as a magnet that pulls together such topics as human nature, sin, individual integrity, community, and spiritual wholeness.  Confession is more than just whispering a few faults into a priest's ear.  It's an opportunity for renewal and rebirth, because one can only begin to heal if one first acknowledges that something's broken.  Defiant refusal to acknowledge individual guilt is bad enough; psycho-babbled insousiance is worse.  Jim Forest does an especially good job of persuading us of the importance of honestly facing ourselves and God.<br />Along the way, he gives a short history of confession, reflects on several scriptural stories in which confession is illuminated (my favorite is his discussion of Mark's account of the paralytic who was healed), includes a discussion of Dostoevsky on the need for reconciliation (to my mind, a gem-like essay in its own right), discusses some concrete tips for preparing for confession or self-examen and selecting a confessor, and closes with an interesting chapter of reflections on confession from clergy and laypeople.  All in all, a remarkable book.  It deserves to be read with Martin Smith's classic *Reconciliation*.<br />Jim Forest has given us much to think about in his previous books on icons, the beatitudes, and Dorothy Day and Thomas Merton (one of the best short biographies of Merton I've ever read).  We're once again in his debt for this little book on confession.hies of Merton I've ever read).  We're once again in his debt for this little book on confession.	2002-03-10
US	52797417	RP7GGAGWES5A2	0802135919	488797620	World Hunger: Twelve Myths (22)	Books	5	13	16	N	N	The emperor has no clothes!	There are few people in this country who have done more to raise consciousness about food, economy, and natural resources than Frances Moore Lappe.  She was a prophet for sustainability long before it became fashionable to buck the emerging globalism.  Her *World Hunger:  12 Myths*, an expanded and updated version of the earlier *World Hunger:  10 Myths*, is a pivotal text.<br />The central claim defended here is that hunger is a question of distribution, not scarcity of food or surplus of people.  Hunger, in short, is a political problem, and in *12 Myths* Lappe and her co-authors systematically debunk the misconceptions and spins that blind us to the real nature of world hunger.<br />This book is subversive in the best sense of the word.  It shakes our own complacency; it dares to say that the self-serving corporate and political explanations for world hunger have no substance; and it offers strategies for actually doing something to solve the problem.  The thing is this:  we're all implicated in the problem of world hunger.  All of us eat, and in eating we at least implicitly condone the maldistribution of foodstuffs that gives us tomatoes and kiwis in the dead of winter while farmers of these exportable cash crops in the third world starve.  But it doesn't have to be this way.  As Lappe says, &quot;Where and how we spend our money--or don't spend it--is a vote for the kind of world we want to create.  For example, in most communities we can now choose to shop at food stores that offer less-processed and less-wastefully-packaged foods, stores managed by the workers themselves, instad of conglomerate-controlled supermarkets.  And we can choose to redirect our consumer dollars in support of specific product boycotts . . . &quot;	2002-03-10
US	52797417	R2TEQRT9005JU8	0963469215	322015561	Wealth and Poverty in the Teachings of the Church Fathers	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	A book that deserves wider attention	Greek Orthodox priest James Thornton has written a magnificent study of the social teachings of the Church fathers in his *Wealth and Poverty*.  One of the wonderful things about the book is the generosity with which Thornton quotes the fathers, many of whose writings are still untranslated.  In the process, he makes a compelling case for the book's central claim that \\"concern for the moral and social health of society is by no means a recent discovery of secular ideologues and theorists, but is, rather, one of the very fundamentals of the Church's heritage\\" (pp. 9-10).  In fleshing out the specifics of this heritage, Thornton puts the lie to two prevailing misconceptions:  first, the worldly insistence that Christianity has a \\"pie-in-the-sky\\" indifference toward injustice; second, the fundamentalist religious right viewpoint that \\"real\\" Christian politics is somewhere to the right of Attila the Hun.  On the contrary, the most ancient teachings of the Church, from Christ himself to the early apostolic fathers, to the later fathers, center squarely on a preference for the poor and socially rejected.  The message is unequivocal:  you can't love God if you don't first love your fellow humans.<br />Perhaps the best way to convey how exciting this book is would be to quote some of the Church fathers Thornton discusses.  Here's St. Basil preaching to the rich:  \\"'I am wronging no one,' you say, 'I hold fast to my own, that is all.'  Your own!  Who gave it to you to bring into life with you?  You are like the man who takes a seat in a theater and then keeps out newcomers, claiming as his own what is there for the use of everyone.  Such are the rich; they seize what belongs to all and then claim the right of possession to monopolize it; if everyone took for himself enough to meet his own wants and gave up the rest to those who needed it, there would be no rich and no poor.\\"  Or St. Gregory of Nazianzus on our obligation to the poor:  \\"Since we are human beings, we must pay our debt of goodness to our fellow human beings, whatever the cause of their plight:  orphanhood, exile, cruelty of the master, rashness of those who govern, inhumanity of tax-collectors, brutality of bloodthirsty bandits...  All are equally miserable and look up to our hands in the same way we look up to those of God.\\"  Or how about a fourteenth century Orthodox theologian, Gregory Palamas:  \\"The delusion and luxury of the rich even reach to the grave.  In order to become even wealthier, rich people behave in an authoritarian and forceful way toward the poor; they increase the taxes of those who work for a living and rejoice in getting ahead.  Like wild pigs and bloodthirsty dogs they seize the life of the unprotected poor.\\"<br />Powerful stuff, and each and every word a paraphrase of Christ's own words.  Read this book, let it touch your heart, and enter into a deeper Christian discipleship.our debt of goodness to our fellow human beings, whatever the cause of their plight:  orphanhood, exile, cruelty of the master, rashness of those who govern, inhumanity of tax-collectors, brutality of bloodthirsty bandits...  All are equally miserable and look up to our hands in the same way we look up to those of God.\\"  Or how about a fourteenth century Orthodox theologian, Gregory Palamas:  \\"The delusion and luxury of the rich even reach to the grave.  In order to become even wealthier, rich people behave in an authoritarian and forceful way toward the poor; they increase the taxes of those who work for a living and rejoice in getting ahead.  Like wild pigs and bloodthirsty dogs they seize the life of the unprotected poor.\\"<br />Powerful stuff, and each and every word a paraphrase of Christ's own words.  Read this book, let it touch your heart, and enter into a deeper Christian discipleship.	2002-03-08
US	52797417	RUEH6DQ79YLDJ	0395652375	468310200	The Encyclopedia of World History	Books	5	54	56	N	N	An excellent resource for both students and professionals	You know you've finally run across an excellent encyclopedia when you pull it off the shelf to look up a specific topic only to find yourself a couple of hours later reading totally unrelated entries for the sheer pleasure of it.  This is my experience with this newest edition of Peter Stearns' *Encyclopedia of World History*.<br />The Encyclopedia's entries, which run from prehistoric to contemporary times, are incredibly detailed, summarizing each periods intellectual, economic, political, social, religious, and military history.  They also include features not found in typical historical overviews.  One of my favorites  is \\"Global Interaction Networks,\\" a section that ties together causal interactions between different parts of the world at different historical periods.  The Global Interaction Networks for Europe, 1479-1675, for example,  features mini-essays on emerging world economies, exchange of new agricultural products (such as maize and potatoes discovered in the New World), and worldwide epidemics.<br />In this edition of the Encyclopedia, there's also an accompanying CD which provides, among other things, a wonderful historical atlas.  Finally, the index is to die for:  over 150 pages of closely-printed text.  Wonderful!<br />An overall reflection of the usefulness of this Encyclopedia is that one needn't be a rocket scientist to find it useful.  A high school student can profit from it just as much as a graduate student or history professor.  I've frequently referred to past editions of it in preparing for my own classes, and I've never hesitated to refer it to students.	2002-03-07
US	52797417	R2B4Z5PQ0YY90G	1567512089	706280719	Democratizing the Global Economy: The Battle Against the World Bank and the IMF	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A little fluffy but still worthwhile	Kevin Danaher, editor of *Democratizing the Global Economy*, says that there are three strategies for workiing towards an economic structure that isn't controlled by secretive corporate elites.  The first way is to shift public priorities from profit maximization to civic and environmental responsibility; the second is to insist on corporate accountability; the third is building a new grassroots-based structure within the shell of the old corporate structure.  Education, advocacy, creation of alternatives:  three ways to buck the global system.<br />*Democratizing the Global Economy* claims to focus on the first of these:  education.  It offers a variety of essays that fall into three categories:  how to protest corporate globalism,  the structure and influence of the World Bank and IMF, and future directions for the anti-globalism movement.  The essays vary in quality.  Robert Weissman's &quot;Twenty Questions on the IMF&quot; is a genuinely instructive piece outlining the relationship between the IMF, Congress, and the World Bank.  Noam Chomsky's co-authored &quot;A Letter to the U.S. Congress,&quot; on the other hand, seems thrown in only to include Chomsky in the volume's list of contributors.  Most of the essays tend to be rhetorical rather than analytical or statistical.  One sometimes has the impression of being harangued at a public meeting, and as a consequence is fired up without being instructed.<br />Still, the book is well worth reading.  I would suggest, however, that it be read in conjunction with some more analytical treatments such as Marjorie Kelly's  *Divine Right of Capital* or Charles Derber's *Corporation Nation*.	2002-03-06
US	52797417	R1THKBPPLRXJ5F	0819217395	7862300	Naked Before God: The Return of a Broken Disciple	Books	5	16	16	N	N	An utterly honest book	I've read Bill William's *Naked Before God* a couple of times.  It's an incredibly painful chore, because the book is as honest an account of spiritual searching and physical suffering as I've ever encountered.  Williams' ultimate concern is the problem of innocent suffering, sometimes referred to by theologians as the problem of evil.  In a nutshell, the problem is this:  how is belief in an all-loving God compatible with the presence of undeserved suffering in the world?  It's the question raised by Job.  It's a question that millions of people ask themselves in their everyday sufferings.  And it's a question on which more than one person's faith has been broken.<br />Bill Williams faces the problem headon in a mode that I suppose can be called autobiographical-imaginative-theology.  Weaving in stories of his own struggle with cystic fibrosis, fictional ruminations of walking and talking with Jesus as a disciple named Nathaniel, and scriptural/theological reflections on the problem of innocent suffering, Williams presents us with a one-of-a-kind meditation on what it means to be a fragile, suffering, frightened, but also occasionally angry, defiant, and hopeful human being.  He pulls no punches in the book.  At times his anger, his sense of unfairness, is overpowering.  At other times, his gratitude for the slightest of blessings, the most trivial (to our jaded eyes) gifts, is equally overpowering.  Ultimately, Williams awakens to the suffering God who loves, who knows what it's like to be a broken pot (p. 299), who lost hope in the depts of His suffering, and who still, in a mysterious way that even He, perhaps, doesn't understand, overcame.<br />There are few books that make me laugh out loud when I read them, and fewer still that make me weep.  This one did both.  It's not a feel-good book.  But it is one that will touch your deepest core, and in the process move you closer, perhaps, to an embrace of the mystery of God and suffering.  Bill Williams died shortly after *Naked Before God* was published.  I remember him with gratitude each morning in my prayers.after *Naked Before God* was published.  I remember him with gratitude each morning in my prayers.	2002-03-06
US	52797417	R3BV3MLMD4A797	156833169X	523107195	Martin Luther King, Jr.: Nonviolent Strategies and Tactics for Social Change	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A tribute to peace	My favorite kind of book is one that makes you want to read twenty or thirty others because of the titles and writers referred to by the author.  You think you're reading a single book, but by the time you close it, you've been introduced to a whole community.<br />John Ansbro's book on Dr. King's philosophy of nonviolence is like that.  First published twenty years ago and thankfully re-released, the book helps us understand King's nonviolence through careful and interesting discussions of the influences on him.  Ansbro traces King's personalism and focus on agape ethics through thinkers such as Howard Thurman, Kant, Nygren, Augustine, Thomas Aquinas, Niebuhr, DuBois Gandhi, and Thoreau.  Especially useful is his discussion of King's views on collective evil and what he sees as its alternative, the \\"beloved community.\\"  Equally useful and fascinating is Ansbro's comparison of Dr. King's nonviolence to Franz Fanon's and Malcolm X's (early) espousal of violence.<br />Reading this book is an education not only in Dr. King's philosophy and stragegy of nonviolent resistance, but also on nonviolence as taught and practiced through the ages.  In this day and age, when we seem even more ready than in days past to resort to violence as a way of settling differences, the re-issue of Ansbro's book is a Godsend.	2002-03-04
US	52797417	R276F90NFNP54W	0520224655	994413013	Food Politics: How the Food Industry Influences Nutrition and Health (California Studies in Food and Culture)	Books	5	43	48	N	N	The obscene side of what we eat	It's no surprise that we live in what the social critic Guy Debord calls a \\"spectacle\\" culture whose values and symbols increasingly originate from the marketing world.  Mega-corporations are in the business of making a profit, and the way they do that is to use media to persuade ... folks into buying their products.  Doubt it?  Then try to get rid of all the advertizing jingles floating around in your head.  Recent studies show that infants recognize manufacturing logos before they recognize their own names.  We live in one vast commercial.  We are consumer nation.<br />Marion Nestle has written an excellent and frightening book about the food side of consumer nation, documenting the lengths the food industry goes to manipulate the public, market its wares, and achieve the bottom line.  The problem is that we over-stuffed Americans have too many choices about what to munch:  food products proliferate.  (I mean, just count the number of breakfast cereals available to you the next time you go to the supermarket.  Do we REALLY need 43 different kinds of fiber to choose from?)  So in order to push its product, the food industry revs up the marketing pressure.  The ironically named Nestle exposes the ways that food manufacturers and retailers do this through their lobbying efforts with the FDA, through targeting consumer groups--especially kids--with as much zeal as Joe Camel used to hawk smokes to underagers, by bribing school systems to tout soft drinks and junk foods to students (as, for example, rewards for reading), or by fudging dietary and nutritional information packaged with the product.<br />The way in which the food industry manipulates us in order to push its products is obscene enough.  But what's even more shameful is the fact that people are still starving, both here and abroad, even though there's so much damn food available that retailers are stumbling over themselves trying to sell it.  UNESCO reports that between 35,000 and 40,000 kids die each day throughout the world (ncluding the U.S.) of starvation or hunger-related illness.  These deaths aren't caused by a lack of food, but by lousy distribution of food.  The politics and business of food pursues the bottom line while millions starve.<br />Read this book, be horrified, get angry, and change your life.  Break free of the spectacle society.  Mega-corporations can be stopped when we consumers stand up to them in the way they understand best:  when we refuse to buy their products and play their game.hroughout the world (ncluding the U.S.) of starvation or hunger-related illness.  These deaths aren't caused by a lack of food, but by lousy distribution of food.  The politics and business of food pursues the bottom line while millions starve.<br />Read this book, be horrified, get angry, and change your life.  Break free of the spectacle society.  Mega-corporations can be stopped when we consumers stand up to them in the way they understand best:  when we refuse to buy their products and play their game.	2002-03-04
US	52797417	R1IYUCCUMGLXNU	1580082319	48495081	How Wal-Mart is Destroying America and The World and What You Can Do About It	Books	4	21	25	N	N	Can you say "Evil Empire"?	Bill Quinn is a feisty 88-year-old newspaperman who admits to being on a crusade to bring down the world's largest retailer:  Wal-Mart.  This new edition of his anti-Wal-Mart manifesto is a lively and frightening read.  It tends to be short on documentation at times, too often building its case on anecdote, and hearsay.  But there are other sources (for example, Barbara Erhenreich's recent *Nickle and Dimed*) that complement and corroborate many of Quinn's claims.<br />According to Quinn, the basic business philosophy of Wal-Mart is \\"Stomp the Comp!\\" (this seems to actually be a Wal-Mart managerial cheer).  Sam Walton's attitude was to obliterate the competition.  Sharing the market with competitors is for chumps who don't want to be #1.  But in order to stomp the comp, Wal-Mart doesn't sell at rock bottom prices, despite its advertising claims. (If you doubt this, do a little comparison shopping and you'll discover that in fact Wal-Mart isn't the cheapest game going.  But be careful:  Quinn says that comparison shoppers have been escorted out of Wal-Marts because they were seen jotting down prices in notebooks.)  Rather, it ruthlessly cuts overhead, and that means paying workers minimum wage, hiring most of its employees on a part time basis so that it doesn't have to worry about benefits, making its fulltime employees pay half of their benefits cost if they opt for insurance, insisting on discounts from vendors as conditions for doing business with them, buying cheap merchandise stitched together in third world sweat shops (remember Kathy Lee Gifford?), busting unionization efforts, and occasionally repackaging and reselling returned, defective merchandise.<br />Most of us probably aren't aware of these internal shenanigans.  But all of us know what Wal-Mart does to local communities when it moves in.  The national strategy has always been to target rural areas, overwhelm with an advertizing blitz, stomp the comp, and control the market.  In the process, local businesses go bankrupt and folks lose their jobs, only to be offered part time, minimum wage work at the local Wal-Mart that's now the only game in town.  Quinn shows how this pattern of seize and conquer is characteristic of the Wal-Mart approach.  He also reveals the next, frightening stage of Wal-Mart evolution:  consolidated Wal-Marts, even bigger and \\"better\\".  The national plan is this:  the old Wal-Marts that have drained downtowns in rural areas are now going to close shop and consolidate in huge Wal-Marts, leaving more empty buildings, putting people out of work once again, leaving dead downtowns in their wake, and forcing consumers to use more gasoline to drive to them.  Thanks, Sam!<br />Take a chance on this book.  Read it, think about it, talk to your family and neighbors about it.  And take back your community by saying \\"no!' to Wal-Mart.inesses go bankrupt and folks lose their jobs, only to be offered part time, minimum wage work at the local Wal-Mart that's now the only game in town.  Quinn shows how this pattern of seize and conquer is characteristic of the Wal-Mart approach.  He also reveals the next, frightening stage of Wal-Mart evolution:  consolidated Wal-Marts, even bigger and \\"better\\".  The national plan is this:  the old Wal-Marts that have drained downtowns in rural areas are now going to close shop and consolidate in huge Wal-Marts, leaving more empty buildings, putting people out of work once again, leaving dead downtowns in their wake, and forcing consumers to use more gasoline to drive to them.  Thanks, Sam!<br />Take a chance on this book.  Read it, think about it, talk to your family and neighbors about it.  And take back your community by saying \\"no!' to Wal-Mart.	2002-03-04
US	52797417	RBC7BLLULRJXR	0819218286	156033874	A History of the Episcopal Church (Revised Edition)	Books	2	52	60	N	Y	Just the facts, ma'am	Oh my.  The back cover of Prichard's *History* correctly says that &quot;many people today are looking for a history of the Episcopal Church that is brief, comprehensive, easy to read, and inclusive.&quot;  But the book lacks all of these qualities except possibly the first (depending on whether you consider a 300+ page book &quot;brief&quot;).<br />To his credit, Prichard does try to cover the history of the church in America, taking us from the first years of colonization up to the election of Frank Griswold as Presiding Bishop.  This is a formidable task, and Prichard is to be commended for giving it a go.<br />Having said that, however, three things about the book are troublesome.  First, I'm afraid that it's written in the dryest style imaginable, bringing back unpleasant memories of standardized textbooks struggled through in high school.<br />Second, it's more of a rather breathless compendium than an integrated history.  By that, I mean that the approach is rather positivistic:  history is presented as little more than one fact after another arranged in chronological fashion.  There's very little attempt to weave these facts into a broader context or to show interrelations between them.  As a consequence, the social context of the church is all but ignored.  Instead, Prichard focuses ad tedium on the institutional development of the church.  This is obvious an important part of its history.  But how informative or fruitful for the general layreader is a history of General Convention?<br />Finally, Prichard never makes any systematic effort to tie together theology and history.  He focuses exclusively on the institutional church but ignores its spiritual progression.  As a consequence, the account seems, at best, lopsided.  To give but one example:  on pp. 188-89 Prichard writes of William Porcher DuBose, arguably the greatest episcopalian theologian of the 19th century.  But he mentions him primarily in reference to an historical debate about church structure, and throws in only a one-line aside about DuBose's incarnationalist theology.  This refusal to weave spiritual and institutional history renders Prichard's work rather soulless, if I may use that word in this context.<br />The book is worthwhile as a quick reference for dates and events.  But I'm afraid that a popular history of the Episcopal Church still remains to be written.cture, and throws in only a one-line aside about DuBose's incarnationalist theology.  This refusal to weave spiritual and institutional history renders Prichard's work rather soulless, if I may use that word in this context.<br />The book is worthwhile as a quick reference for dates and events.  But I'm afraid that a popular history of the Episcopal Church still remains to be written.	2002-03-04
US	52797417	R29Q1JP829EOBL	0156003287	620016850	The Soul of Politics: Beyond "Religious Right" and "Secular Left"	Books	5	64	65	N	N	Disgusted with politics?  Give this book a try!	Have you ever bought an interesting-looking book, tucked it away on a shelf, finally gotten around to reading it a couple of years later, and then kicked yourself for waiting so long?  That's how I felt when I at last read Jim Wallis' *Soul of Politics*.  If it doesn't reinspire you to work for a better society, nothing will.<br />Wallis calls for what he calls a \\"prophetic politics of personal and social transformation,\\" one that's built on the Judaeo-Christian insight that righteousness requires both individual and social responsibility.  A contemporary re-application of this insight can help the secular left and the religious right learn from and complement one another and break free of the dysfunctional impasse they've reached.  The left tends to overemphasize structural evil at the expense of individual responsibility; the right tends to overemphasize individual virtue while ignoring structural evil.  But the prophetic politics--the politics with soul--Wallis advocates takes both into consideration.  Individual responsibility to other individuals, to the community, to the environment, a call to action that \\"challenges the old while announcing the new\\" (p. 53), a spirit-filled replacement of unjust institutions that prevent humans from attaining maximal being:  this is the heart of Wallis' message.<br />It's easy to become cynical and opt out of the political arena to cultivate one's own garden.  But if Wallis is correct, such a withdrawal--if I may use an old-fashioned word that we perhaps ought to take seriously again--is a sin.  To remain silent in the face of injustice is to acquiesce to it.  Wallis' book gives us a good idea of how to go about healing the fragmentation of our society.  The last third of the book deals with strategic details.<br />Read this book.  Politics is too important to be left to the professional politicians.	2002-03-04
US	52797417	RJ4K1Y5OUBGA	0819216577	218895042	The New Altar Guild Book	Books	5	37	38	N	Y	An essential guide	This little book is an indispensible resource for any person who serves on an altar guild, the lay ministry in the episcopalian church responsible for making sure that everything on the altar and in the sanctuary is ready for worship.<br />Altar guild ministry isn't for everyone, but it's both absolutely essential for the liturgy and a symbolic reminder of the necessity for conscientious labor in the everyday world.  It's the way of Martha, of quiet, unobtrusive household work that goes on in the background.  In making sure that vestments are laid out, candle wicks are trimmed, altar clothes ironed, hymn numbers displayed, and so on, the altar guild member serves both God and his or her fellows.  It's a ministry of what Henri Nouwen called &quot;downward mobility&quot; that encourages anonymous service, loyalty, and discipline.<br />Barbara Gent and Betty Sturges take the ministry seriously enough to have put together a book that takes altar guild members through the sometimes arcane language of the sacristy (what exactly is the difference between a lavabo and a baptismal towel? where does the word &quot;amice&quot; come from? and what in the world is a cerecloth?!), gives step-by-step instructions on setting up an altar or decorating the church according to the church calendar, and explains how to prepare for special occasions such as funerals.  The authors wisely recognize that many procedural details can and should be worked out by individual churches.  What's the point of over-regulating?  But there still remain many procedures uniform to all congregations, and it's these that they cover in their book.<br />If I have any reservation at all about this useful little guide, it's that I wish there was more of a discussion on the spirituality of altar guilding.  But one book can't do everything, and what this one does it does extremely well.  Highly recommended.	2002-03-04
US	52797417	RP3WO6MMR7Y2	0684868814	954638820	America's First Dynasty: The Adamses, 1735-1918	Books	4	23	26	N	N	Dynasty and Melancholy	An interesting and nicely readable survey of four generations of one of America's founding families.  Brookhiser's book doesn't have the detail of McCollough's recent biography on Adams (this isn't a complaint, by the way!).  Instead, it traces family traits and dispositions through their historical and psychological course over a period of 150 years or so.<br />Each one of the mini-biographies of the four Adamses Brookhiser discusses--John, John Quincy, Charles, and Henry--are fascinating in themselves.  But what I think is especially valuable is the thread of melancholy that seems to run through the Adams lineage, a thread Brookhiser paints with innuendo rather than bold stroke.  John's ambition and frustrated pride, John Quincy's self-punishing advocacy of unpopular causes, Charles' heart-breaking need to establish a postmortem relationship with his father by editing John Quincy's multi-volumed diary, Henry's world-weariness that expresses itself in his cleverly cynical autobiography or his romantic nostalgia for a medieval period that really never was:  each of the Adamses suffers from and copes with a dark side in his own way.  The darkness is what makes them all so incredibly intriguing and, combined with a New England work ethic, creates a restlessness in them that probably fuels their success.<br />Two bonuses in the book:  first, provocative insights one picks up about the Adamses (for example, Charles's aristocratic, stiff-upper-lip handling of his own increasing dotage in his last years--how Adams-like; or Henry's refusal to mourn the beloved wife who killed herself--again, only an Adams could put on such a public front); second, the book's topic invites us to ask ourselves why it is that we Americans, who supposedly deplore aristocracy out of a loyalty to our democratic traditions, so enjoy and protect our homegrown dynasties.  The Adamses, the Roosevelts, the Rockefellers, the Kennedys, the Bushes--we either love 'em or love to hate 'em.  A good question to ask ourselves is &quot;why?&quot;.ion to ask ourselves is &quot;why?&quot;.	2002-03-03
US	52797417	RGYAU53J1X9V5	1560252480	592035995	Requiem for a Dream: A Novel	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	An American *Trainspotting*	Irvine Welch's novel *Trainspotting* depicts a world, set in working class urban Scotland, in which a lost generation sinks into hard drugs to escape a valueless present and a directionless future.  The main characters are all dropouts from mainstream society.  They want no part of a middle class culture that craves dental insurance and barca lounge chairs.<br />Selby's *Requiem* picks up the ball by focusing not on dropouts from the middle class mainstream, but on the mainstream itself.  In describing the destruction of Sara Goldfarb, the diet pill queen, her son Harry and his girlfriend Marion, who sell (and become addicted to) drugs in order to raise cash to start a yuppie business, and Harry's friend Tyrone, Selby forces us to realize that the conventional values we cherish are as addictively destructive as the habits of \\"junkies\\" such as Trainspotters.  The novel is relentless in its depiction of a society that's addictive to the core.  Unlike Welch's *Trainspotting,* there are no moments of hilarious humor.  But the book is well worth reading, despite being so painful, because it forces us to question our own addictive behavior as well as our own hypocrisy.  *Requiem* forces us into the unpleasant awareness that the \\"freaks,\\" the \\"weaklings,\\" the \\"losers\\" aren't just the people who stagger around on Skid Row corners or flop in crack houses.  They're also us \\"respectable\\" types who feed the monkeys on our backs in more socially acceptable ways.	2002-03-02
US	52797417	R20M9NPVZXZI1A	0679640401	166313123	Islam: A Short History	Books	3	25	39	N	N	Don't expect theological depth	Armstrong is one of the biggest names in comparative religion these days, but anyone who's read two or three of her books quickly recognizes that she's long on historical nuts and bolts but rather short on probing the theological and spiritual dimensions of the religions she discusses.  Her *History of God*, *Jerusalem:  One City, Three Faiths*, *Holy War*, *Muhammad*, and now *Islam*, typically leave me with a hungry feeling.  After reading them, I feel as if I've been served salad but no entree.<br />Even allowing that this book on Islam calls itself \\"A History,\\" one would've hoped that there would be some discussion of the central religious beliefs of Islam.  But instead, what Armstrong chooses to do is dish up for the reader a sometimes overwhelmingly detailed political and social history of Islamic internal squabbling and empire-building.  The book would, perhaps be useful for a college student in a history course, but it offers very little for anyone prompted by the events of 9/11 to learn more about Islam.<br />Having said this, I hasten to add that my dissatisfaction with *Islam* in particular and Armstrong's work in general isn't meant to suggest that I think her a shoddy thinker or flawed scholar.  She is meticulous in her research, and obviously strives to be fair-minded (as she says of herself, she is a nonaligned \\"monotheist,\\" and hence has no apparent axe to grind).  But I do wish her obvious intellectual talents leaned a bit more in the direction of exploring the heart and soul rather than the outward trappings of the three Abrahamic religions she so admires.  Without that kind of deep exploration, I fear that Islam will remain an enigma to many of us in the West.	2002-03-02
US	52797417	R3QOLKZNVE67IJ	0743212983	226114904	Lincoln's Greatest Speech: The Second Inaugural	Books	5	44	47	N	Y	A great book about a great speech	For those of us who have always sensed that the 2nd inaugural speech rivals and in some ways even surpasses the more acclaimed Gettysburg Address, Ronald White's book is a masterly vindication.  In it White carefully traces the speech's genesis and follows its implications, both political and moral.  The clear message is that the themes of conciliation, justice, equality, and compassion apply in all social contexts, not just in this one historical moment in early 1865.  The distance between Lincoln as a statesman and today's politicians is even greater in style and substance than in years.  What politician today would dare to call for equality and conciliation when it's so much easier (and profitable) to sabre-rattle and flag-wave?<br />Of special interest and value is White's reflections on what Lincoln might mean in his almost apocalyptic references in the speech to divine will and bloodshed, as well as Lincoln's almost agonized acknowledgment that religious convictions can be used to defend opposite sides of an issue.  (As Lincoln says in his speech, \\"Both [the North and the South] read the same Bible, and pray to the same God; and each invokes His aid against the other...\\").  The conclusion?  Be extremely wary about claiming divine favor in conflicts.<br />All in all, an excellent, insightful, well-written book.  Anyone interested in White's book might also appreciate William Miller's recently published *Lincoln's Ethics.*	2002-03-02
US	52797417	R315SZOWUWHPJM	0465043674	981902361	Credit Card Nation	Books	4	29	36	N	Y	Just a question of free will?  NOT!	Several reviewers here of Manning's *Credit Card Nation* take him to task for proposing sweeping regulatory reforms to get Americans out from under the stupendous national credit card debt.  These regulations would include reining in the frenzy with which banks, savings and loans, and retailers offer their high-interest cards to everybody under the sun (from young students, to aged indigents, to already over-stretched middle class types).  Critical reviewers argue that the regulations are unnecessary and, worse, intrusive.  All we consumers need do, they say, is exercise some old-fashioned self-restraint.  When the pre-approved credit card arrives in the mail, toss it into the dustbin.<br />In the best of all possible worlds, this would be the most likely strategy.  But this isn't the best of all possible worlds.  The consumerist culture in which we live encourages us to spend, spend, spend.  It teaches us to measure our individual worth by how many possessions we own and how much buying power we control.  Marketing experts study our psychological profiles and target us.  Television and radio bombard us with near nonstop ads.  Television sitcoms teach us that the average family ought to have hundreds of gizmos and gadgets to make life comfortable.  Individuals living in poverty who are painfully aware of the disparity between their lifestyle and the &quot;Great American Dream&quot; are promised as easy piece of the pie by credit card merchants.  To his credit, Manning goes out of his way to document and discuss these and some of the hundreds of other ways in which our consumer culture encourages us to spend money we don't have.<br />So it just won't do to casually say the problem will go away when we toss away the credit cards.  Given the marketing saturation of everyday life, this wouldn't be an exercise of free will so much as an act of near-omnipotence.  To claim that credit card debt is just the consequence of lack of personal discipline is to ignore the consumerist culture that increasingly fashions us.  We should exercise more personal discipline.  But we should also be increasingly aware of the high payoff for bankers and retailers if they can manipulate and encourage our addiction for buying on credit.  This is a social problem, not just an individual, psychological one.  Readers tempted to take an exclusive &quot;it's a matter of personal responsibility&quot; position might want to supplement Manning's very carefully argued book with others such as *Culture Jam* or *Affluenza*.rist culture that increasingly fashions us.  We should exercise more personal discipline.  But we should also be increasingly aware of the high payoff for bankers and retailers if they can manipulate and encourage our addiction for buying on credit.  This is a social problem, not just an individual, psychological one.  Readers tempted to take an exclusive &quot;it's a matter of personal responsibility&quot; position might want to supplement Manning's very carefully argued book with others such as *Culture Jam* or *Affluenza*.	2002-03-02
US	52797417	R3GTDHL4CBPNTC	0375408746	411655503	The News About the News: American Journalism in Peril	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Interesting but not especially surprising	Downie and Kaiser's book is an excellently written and entertaining look at how the print and electronic news media operate today.  The trouble is that the thesis is old news, even if the examples with which the authors illustrate it aren't. The general message the authors want to get across is, alas, all too well known:  too few mega-bucked families own too many newspapers and TV stations, marketing is increasingly the tail that wags the news and editorial dog, politicians manipulatively lie to reporters whom they've cultivated, advertizers buy \\"info-mercials\\" that the media masquerade as documentaries.  This is stuff that's common lore.  Where Downie and Kaiser shine is in illustrating these points with behind-the-scenes anecdotes pulled from their joint years at the \\"Washington Post.\\"  Especially interesting is their discussion of the \\"Post's\\" greatest investigative reporting victory, the series on cops who killed civilians in Washington DC., and the \\"Post's\\" dropping of the ball on Irangate.  There's a certain degree of self-congratulation in the book--the two authors clearly think that the \\"Washington Post\\" is unrivaled in the editorial integrity department--but it's difficult to deny that a good case can be made for the kudos they give their paper.  A bit more reflection on how media became the mess it is today, as well as how to fix it, would've strengthened the book.  Still, one does get the gratifying sense that Downie and Kaiser are two old-school journalists who can be trusted.  Unhappily, one also gets the sense that they're members of a dying breed.	2002-03-01
US	52797417	R13JWWG2R02VNL	0915957760	980545546	The Meaning of the Holy Qur'an (English, Arabic and Arabic Edition)	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Perfect for the beginner	As a non-Muslim who teaches courses in world religions and mysticism, I find this translation of the Qur'an the most helpful to those persons who want to read the holy book of Islam.  'Abdullah Yusuf 'Ali's translation is both clear and beautiful, and his near verse-by-verse commentary is nonintrusive and extremely useful to the beginner.  The commentary not only explains the context of individual verses but also serves as a concordance.  Moreover, each surah (chapter) is prefaced by an informative summary that helps orient the reader.  Finally, the whole has an extremely comprehensive index of almost thirty pages.<br />I can't recommend a better edition of the Qur'an to those of us who are non-Muslims but who wish to know more about Islam.	2002-03-01
US	52797417	R2DPL3U78D4TQ9	0915957760	980545546	The Meaning of the Holy Qur'an (English, Arabic and Arabic Edition)	Books	5	186	191	N	Y	Perfect for the beginner	As a non-Muslim who teaches courses in world religions and mysticism, I find this translation of the Qur'an the most helpful to those persons who want to read the holy book of Islam.  'Abdullah Yusuf 'Ali's translation is both clear and beautiful, and his near verse-by-verse commentary is nonintrusive and extremely useful to the beginner.  The commentary not only explains the context of individual verses but also serves as a concordance.  Moreover, each surah (chapter) is prefaced by an informative summary that helps orient the reader.  Finally, the whole has an extremely comprehensive index of almost thirty pages.<br />I can't recommend a better edition of the Qur'an to those of us who are non-Muslims but who wish to know more about Islam.	2002-03-01
US	52797417	R24L820DFQI3NP	0140150943	86161989	The Portable Emerson (Viking Portable Library)	Books	2	57	59	N	N	Not as well edited as it could be	I love Emerson.  For my money, he's one of the most insightful thinkers and beautiful stylists this country has produced.  He deserves better than he's received from &quot;professional&quot; philosophers who tend to dismiss him as &quot;just&quot; a person of letters (as if that were a shameful thing to be!).<br />But this collection of Emersonia is seriously flawed.  It prints the essays in Emerson's first collection, but only two from his second.  It omits some of his best poems (including &quot;The Sphinx,&quot; which Emerson himself so valued that he always had it printed at the very beginning of all the books of poems he published during his lifetime), as well as all of the later essays.  In their place, the editors choose to print Emerson's &quot;English Traits,&quot; a pleasant enough travel book but rather fluffy compared to the rest of his works.  As the editors admit in their Introduction (itself a rather disappointing effort), they tend to feel uncomfortable with Emerson's work on mysticism, and so they decided to leave out of their anthology huge chunks of it.  But since Emerson is first and foremost a mystical writer, this is to seriously misrepresent him.<br />In short, read Emerson--but find a better one-volume collection of his work than this one.	2002-03-01
US	52797417	R35JKSEQGN7GGW	0915957760	980545546	The Meaning of the Holy Qur'an (English, Arabic and Arabic Edition)	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Perfect for the beginner	As a non-Muslim who teaches courses in world religions and mysticism, I find this translation of the Qur'an the most helpful to those persons who want to read the holy book of Islam.  'Abdullah Yusuf 'Ali's translation is both clear and beautiful, and his near verse-by-verse commentary is nonintrusive and extremely useful to the beginner.  The commentary not only explains the context of individual verses but also serves as a concordance.  Moreover, each surah (chapter) is prefaced by an informative summary that helps orient the reader.  Finally, the whole has an extremely comprehensive index of almost thirty pages.<br />I can't recommend a better edition of the Qur'an to those of us who are non-Muslims but who wish to know more about Islam.	2002-03-01
US	52797417	RL0606KW0ETTC	0688178057	284789064	Culture Jam: How to Reverse America's Suicidal Consumer Binge--And Why We Must	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Liberate yourself!	Ever catch yourself humming one of those obnoxious advertising jingles that marketeers love to pollute the airwaves with?  Ever wonder what the roads would look like without billboards every 50 feet?  Or what your kids' schools would be like without fast-food sponsored contests?  Or how your own life would be better if you could somehow escape a consumerist society?  Well, guess what?  You can't escape it.  BUT--you can start to undermine it.  You can throw monkey wrenches into the great cultural machine that stall and maybe even jam it.  This book is a primer on how to do just that.  With it as a guide, plus a little imaginative legwork on your part, you can liberate yourself from a culture bent on transforming you into a placid, passive, commodity addict.  All you have to lose is your logo!	2002-03-01
US	52797417	R3JIM24LY6GKID	037540158X	512541409	Lincoln's Virtues: An Ethical Biography	Books	4	26	30	N	N	Why the fascination?	There's likely been no other American so widely dissected as Abraham Lincoln.  Author after author has explored Lincoln's outer world to the point of exhaustion.  It's only understandable, then, that the fashion lately seems to be an exploration of his inner one.  So we have a spate of books in the last few years that explore Lincoln's psyche, his religion, his sexuality,his relation with his family--and now, with Miller's new book, his moral character.<br />Miller tells us that he wants to begin afresh by forgetting the Lincoln myth and tracing the moral development of Lincoln in order to see where he winds up.  But of course this is an impossibly objective position to attain, and the fix is in from page one:  the reader knows--and so does Miller--who's going to win the race.  Lincoln predictably emerges as a complex individual who rises to historical prominence not just because he grew into an astute statesperson, but also because he was a virtuous human being.  The first alone would have given him power; both together give him greatness.<br />Most of Miller's tracing of the inner life of Lincoln isn't particularly new, although it is pleasingly systematic.  But two characteristics of his approach are worth noting.  First, Miller obviously admires his main character without falling into the hagiography that bedevils so many books on Lincoln.  Second, Miller's thesis that the contours of Lincoln's moral character are shaped by his earnest efforts to repudiate his backwoods heritage is both novel and persuasive.  This argument alone would make the book a worthy read.<br />But what the book doesn't do--and perhaps no single book can do this--is explain why it is that we simply can't seem to get enough of Lincoln. Lincoln is a sort of national icon.  The fascination with him is apparently endless.  Miller's book will contribute to the on-going fascination.	2002-03-01
US	52797417	R2WX3Y3VUQTAGG	0060392452	194848581	Stupid White Men ...And Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation!	Books	5	55	76	N	N	The best catalyst for awakening is satire	Michael Moore is a contemporary incarnation of Mark Twain or Dean Swift:  he punctures windy talking heads and skewers political bosses with his wit.  But behind the wit is a good deal of head knowledge and heart passion.  In this latest book, he continues combining satire and analysis by taking some penetrating looks at, for example, education in this country, the disproportionality between haves and have-nots, the ineptitude of Bush &amp; Co., and the promise of peace politics in the Middle East.  Reading Moore not only makes you think; it makes you laugh, and it makes you mad.  The three are a dynamite combination for getting off one's duff and doing something about the continued rule of stupid white men in this country and abroad.<br />If you know anyone--a relative, an acquaintance, a colleague--who's smugly certain that everything in this country is as it should be, give them a copy of this book.	2002-02-24
US	52797417	R2WMDG6LCDKPL	0375505636	872371639	Warrior Politics: Why Leadership Demands a Pagan Ethos	Books	2	30	53	N	N	Ill-informed and cynical	I realize I'm in the minority on this one, but I find Robert Kaplan's &quot;Warrior Politics&quot; embarrassingly misinformed and brutally cynical.  Kaplan misrepresents what he calls Judaeo-Christian values as private and somewhat otherworldly, when in fact they've always been intense combinations of personal righteousness and public responsibility--how else, for example, to explain the Hebrew prophets, Jesus's ministry, or the early Church Fathers on social oppression, poverty, and violence?  Moreover, his endorsement of &quot;acceptable&quot; levels of brutality in politics, which strikes me as the latest bow to Realpolitik, is actually little more than a return to Jeanne Kirkpatrick's rather odious distinction between &quot;good&quot; and &quot;bad&quot; tyrants.  Surely what we need today is political and spiritual thinking that ventures out of the box, rather than merely a re-verbalizing of power politics.  A disappointing and disturbing book--as is its apparent popularity.	2002-02-17
US	52797417	R26ET3553O4M0V	0300093454	673480068	Jihad: The Rise of Militant Islam in Central Asia	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Extremely informative	This book is as well-conceived, well-researched, and well-written as Rashid's earlier *Taliban*.  It makes a convincing case for why Islamic terrorist groups are likely to base their operations in coming years out of central Asia's ex-Soviet states.<br />Two points in particular are worth considering.  The first is that the collapse of the Soviet Union is still continuing to send out shock waves no one could've predicted.  The USSR's abuse of the central Asian republics and their ensuing dismal economic and political status today have created a seedbed for discontent.  This is sad confirmation of the destructive legacy of imperialism, regardless of whether the imperialism is practiced by the political right or left.  The scond point is that the Islamic extremism that's growing in the central Asian republics isn't at all homegrown.  It's imported, largely from Saudi Arabia and wahabism.  The homegrown Islam of the Asian states tends to be contemplative and pietistic--Sufism.  But the new imported brand, rule-bound, rigid, and obsessed with recreating an international Caliphate, is beginning to destroy the native Sufi orientation.<br />Rashid's \\"Jihad,*, just like the earlier *Taliban,* has at least one clear lesson:  economic penury and Western overbearing creates material and psychological conditions that can be manipulated by terrorists.  The western powers ought to take this lesson to heart.  Rashid points out that, despite the growth of militant Islam in the central Asian republics, the natives there aren't particularly anti-American as yet.  It remains to be seen whether they stay that way.  A great deal of their attitude will surely depend on U.S. foreign policy in the months to come.	2002-02-01
US	52797417	R24HRLNJHIQ8A6	0805063889	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Shame on us!	The really horrible thing is that so many of us require a well-written book like this one to stir up some empathy for the flesh-and-blood folks whose down-and-out plights we ignore every day!  Even the coldest of yuppies will surely feel a twinge of guilt and remorse after reading Ehrenreich's chapter on maids.  But how many ever gave their real maids a second glance--except when the work wasn't done to their satisfaction?<br />In a country which consumes 60% of the world's goods, you'd think we could treat fellow citizens a bit better.  Reading Ehrenreich's new book ought to make you sad, and guilty, and mad, and then determined to change the way things are	2001-12-29
US	52797417	R2D4YXE1L62TA7	0791446883	730335674	Animal, Vegetable, or Woman?: A Feminist Critique of Ethical Vegetarianism	Books	1	34	48	N	N	An absolutely absurd thesis	There are some ethicists who seem to operate on a crude hydraulic model of ethical concern, which has as its primary assumption the belief that you can't be concerned with more than one kind of injustice without dissipating valuable energy.  This is the underlying presumption behind George's &quot;Animal, Vegetable, or Woman.&quot;  She claims that to be concerned with giving animals moral concern takes away moral concern for women--as if the two are mutually exclusive.  She ridiculously claims that pregnant women need to eat meat or consume dairy products to ensure the health of their fetuses (jeez, where does she get this nonsense from!?) and that consequently moral defences of vegetarianism are anti-woman.  Never mind that Peter Singer has made a career from comparing speciesism to sexism, or that careful and profoundly feminist vegetarians such as Carol Adams or Deane Curtin think otherwise.  It's difficult to figure out if George's primary motive is to trash vegetarianism or defend a strangely unfeminist woman-uber-alles kind of position.  A shameful book.	2001-10-10
US	52797417	R185GGJ7DX6EQW	0385502028	983376004	Befriending Life: Encounters with Henri Nouwen	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	A wonderful tribute to a wonderful spiritual director	Beth Porter, Susan Brown, and Philip Coulter have done a magnificent job of collecting memories of Henri Nouwen from those who loved him.  These recollections are by core members of the Daybreak community who lived with Henri, persons who met him only once but who were transformed by the encounter, persons who worried about Henri's woundedness but also celebrated it as the source of his incredible sensitivity to the wounds of others.  My favorite recollection is by Michael Arnett, the brother of Adam, Henri's companion at Daybreak.  Michael says:  &quot;Sometimes I do sit on Adam's bench.  Right by Daybreak pond.  Think about Adam.  Think about Henri.&quot;  So do I.  So do all of us whose lives were touched by Henri Nouwen.  Thanks to the editors for reminding us of how much we owe him.	2001-10-04
US	52797417	R16TNEMD4ZDBTM	0867164409	610097705	Hope Against Darkness : The Transforming Vision of Saint Francis of Assisi in an Age of Anxiety	Books	5	54	55	N	Y	One of his very best yet	It amazes me that a person who writes as much as Father Rohr can be as fresh and insightful as he is in each new book.  Hope Against Darkness is nothing short of brilliant.  As I understand him, Rohr argues that the spiritual searcher of today is caught between the modern and the post-modern worldviews.  Both are no longer acceptable, but both contain strengths we ought to retain as best we can.  The anxiety that arises from this ambiguous state of homelessness is the dis-ease he treats in this book, and his remedy is a richly creative appeal to Franciscan spirituality.  Simply wonderful!  A book to read, re-read, and give to others.	2001-03-17
US	52797417	RVFVI9UMW4QT	0375406328	449261090	Lying Awake	Books	5	49	52	N	Y	A great hunger	Salzman's wonderful novel will haunt you.  In sparse, cloister-empty language, he tells the story of Carmelite Sister John of the Cross, a woman whose long hunger for God has finally been filled by three years worth of profoundly changing mystical experiences.  One day she's forced to ask herself if the ecstatic episodes for which she yearns are what she ought to be seeking--whether, in short, the great spiritual hunger that's like a &quot;hole in the center of her being&quot; (p. 115) should be stuffed with comforting content or embraced for the resplendent absence it is.<br />It's significant that Salzman's heroine takes the religious name of &quot;John of the Cross,&quot; the great Carmelite mystic who writes of the &quot;nada&quot; of God.  Her crisis is John's dark night of the soul, and it also faces all of us who search for God.  Sister John's final discovery about the soul's hunger for the Divine is one that may surprise you.  But in Salzman's artful hands, it rings absolutely true.<br />Five stars isn't enough for this book.  Nothing short of a National Book Award can do it justice.	2000-12-28
US	52797417	RYEY7WM1YL4ZI	0380797399	49390421	Faded Coat of Blue (Abel Jones Mysteries)	Books	4	26	28	N	N	A &quot;Dickens&quot; of a book	Reading this wonderful historical novel took me back to the days of my youth when I devoured Charles Dickens.  Parry, like Dickens, excels in drawing characters that lodge in the mind.  The Welshman Abel Jones, whose language is a haunting blend of Celtic melancholy and memory; the lovable ne'er-do-well Malloy, as ready to lend a helping hand as he is to pinch your purse; Cawber, the tycoon from the wrong side of the tracks who punches his way through high-bred and old-monied society:  these and a couple of other characters come across with pulsating vividness.<br />There's another similarity to Dickens here:  Parry is much better at drawing characters and weaving beautiful language than he is at plot.  The mystery that Captain Jones sets out to crack is a bit implausible, and the novel ends too breathlessly.  Yet when weighed against Parry's marvellous characters and poetic prose, this seems a piddling sin.  Who really remembers the plot of *Great Expectations*?  But who can forget the characters of Pip, Joe, Miss Havisham, or Magwitch (Pip's criminal benefactor)?  The same can be said about &quot;Faded Coat of Blue*.  Long after the details of the rather thin plot are forgotten, Parry's characters will remain in our memory.  And for my money, that alone makes this novel well worth reading.	2000-12-28
US	52797417	RABL7DQASO422	0679783342	397623101	Walden and Other Writings (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	221	227	N	N	The negative reviews here are frighteningly revealing	As a professor of philosophy, I at one time regularly took classes of first year college students to Concord for a week-long intensive seminar on Emerson and Thoreau.  I eventually abandoned the seminar, because I discovered that each class was progressively more hostile to what these two wonderful persons stood for.  The ..... reviews written by young people of this edition of _Walden_ are, then, disconcertingly familiar to me.  I obviously disagree with their evaluations of the book and of Thoreau's character.  But what's interesting is why they have such a negative reaction to a book written, as Thoreau says, for young people who haven't yet been corrupted by society.  What is it about the culture in which we live that encourages such hostility to his eloquent plea for simplicity?  It's too facile to suggest that the backlash is motivated only by resentful pique at what's seen as Thoreau's condemnation of contemporary lifestyles, although I suspect this is part of the explanation.  I'd be interested in reading the thoughts here of other readers who are likewise puzzled and disturbed by &quot;Generation Y's&quot; negative response to Thoreau.	2000-12-22
US	52797417	ROA29QASBQ27H	0786883642	45088238	God Among the Shakers: Search for Stillness & Faith at Sabbathday Lake	Books	1	11	13	N	N	An example of pop spirituality at its worst	This one, I'm afraid, isn't worth opening, and certainly not worth buying.  Anyone who's curious about Shaker spirituality won't find much besides worn-out platitudes and Valley Girl depth here.  I hasten to add that the fault lies with the author, not the Shakers.<br />Skees claims she went to Sabbathday Lake to search for &quot;faith&quot; and &quot;stillness,&quot; but her book is screechily gossipy and ill-informed.  Just two examples out of dozens:  (1) She seems absolutely obsessed with Shaker celibacy, returning to it again and again throughout the book. She's equally unable to appreciate that religious celibacy is an ancient practice and unwilling to believe that Shakers and other celibates aren't as aflame with seething hormones as she describes herself.  So instead of exploring the spiritual merits (or lack thereof) of celibacy, she focuses on how unnaturally bizarre it is.  Her conclusion is worthy of a &quot;People&quot; magazine profile: she sagely decides that Shaker dancing must be a hot and heavy substitute for sex (p. 131).  Presumably she would say that the ecstatic dancing of Hare Krishnas, Sufis, and Hasids is also nothing more than sexual frustration.  (2) Although she's a Harvard Divinity School graduate, her innocence of traditional Christian spirituality is astounding and, cumulatively, exasperating.  She gushes, for example, at the Shaker teaching that Christ is available to anyone who opens his or her heart to God, without the slightest recognition that this is a staple of Biblical teaching and subsequent centuries of mystical commentary.  The upshot is that she hands the reader this spiritual gem as if it's an esoteric secret only she and the Shakers know about (p. 96).  In doing so, she tends to trivialize it by wrapping it in melodrama.<br />I don't enjoy being so negative about Skees' book.  But now that spiritual writing has become something of a publishing industry, sophomoric texts like this are being churned out by the scores, and readers need to be wary.  God-seekers from all or no faith traditions--as well as those wonderful, God-inspired people, the Shakers--deserve better than the latest gushings of Yuppie gurus.nd readers need to be wary.  God-seekers from all or no faith traditions--as well as those wonderful, God-inspired people, the Shakers--deserve better than the latest gushings of Yuppie gurus.	2000-12-04
US	52797417	R3LOKPIUL9V3HY	0809124211	695518658	In His Spirit: A Guide to Today's Spirituality	Books	5	21	21	N	N	A contemporary classic	Hauser's &quot;In His Spirit&quot; is the wisest and richest reflection on the workings of the Holy Spirit in our lives that I've ever read.  Drawing on scripture, Merton's insights into contemplation, Maslow's psychology of  self-actualization, and frank personal anecdotes, Hauser helps the reader  better appreciate (1) that the divine Spirit indwells each and every human  being--all of us, as it were, participate in the Pentecost event; (2) that  as a consequence the deepest stirrings of our selves can be trusted; and  (3) that the key to a living spirituality is an ever more intentional  cooperation with the unifying, enlightening, and enabling Spirit within.  I  can think of only one or two other books written within the last twenty  years that have provoked more thought (and gratitude!) in me than this one.  I also strongly recommend two follow-up books on the Spirit written by  Hauser:  &quot;Moving in the Spirit&quot; and &quot;Finding God in Troubled  Times.&quot;  Taken together, the three volumes of this trilogy can change  your life.	2000-07-14
US	52797417	R35CNV95ZD51U6	0809139154	297169217	Godlust: Facing the Demonic, Embracing the Divine	Books	5	20	20	N	Y	From the back cover	&quot;A probing insight into the origins, deep within the human soul, of our present disturbed relationships with the primordial source of our being...[Walters] indicates the way in which to seek a remedy deep enough  and sufficiently powerful to deal with the issue at its proper order of  magnitude.&quot;  Thomas Berry, author of &quot;The Dream of the  Earth&quot;<br />&quot;One will appreciate the lucid, theopoetic way in which  Walters elucidates original sin not only as the human lust to be God but  also as the demonic attempt to devour all truth, beauty, and good.  The way  he proceeds from the eating in the Garden of Eden to the Eucharist is  especially instructive.&quot;  Harvey D. Egan, S.J., Professor of  Systematic and Mystical Theology, Boston College<br />&quot;Kerry Walters'  book is a remarkably fresh, readable, and, above all, insightful  interpretation of timeless religious wisdom.  The use of themes from  literature and film adds color and character to a work deeply rooted in  classic Christian spirituality and theology.  Strongly recommended.&quot;  John F. Haught, Professor of Theology, Georgetown University	2000-07-03
US	52797417	R31IYWCIN0D8ZV	0809138514	955636532	Spirituality of the Handmaid: A Model for Contemporary Seekers	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Advance Praise for Spirituality of the Handmaid	&quot;Kerry Walters has given the religious seeker a profound and practical guide to the art of prayer.&quot;  Morton Kelsey, author, The Other  Side of  Silence<br />&quot;A wonderful combination of old and new, scholarly and  personal, classic and classically Christian!  This is obviously from  someone who has been there and is ready to guide others.  What I like to  call 'the Great Tradition'.&quot;  Richard Rohr, O.F.M.,  Center for  Action and Contemplation,  Albuquerque, NM	1999-02-23
US	52797417	R2B5GW9GQDAH2S	0791440443	971843057	Ethical Vegetarianism	Books	5	33	34	N	Y	Advance praise for Ethical Vegetarianism	&quot;Ethical Vegetarianism offers just the right mix of 'food for thought.'  The movement for a more peaceful world has for too long hungered for a book like this.  Here, truly, is a volume devoted to what we eat that  belongs alongside those more numerous books describing how to cook  it.&quot;  -- Tom Regan, author of The Case for Animal Rights<br />&quot;The  writings of history's most important proponents of ethical vegetarianism  are gathered here in one volume.  This book is a wealth of information for  all those concerned with ending the sufferings of animals.&quot;  --Ingrid  E. Newkirk, President of People for the Ethical Treatment of  Animals<br />&quot;This book is noteworthy for three reasons.  First, it  gathers together several interesting selections from the ancient world and  the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries--not available elsewhere--so that  the reader can see some of the historical background to current debates on  animal rights.  Second, the book contains several well-known authors whose  thoughts on the moral status of animals have been largely, and unfairly,  neglected.  And thirdly, this book brings together several contemporary  approaches to animal rights so that the reader can see the different ways  in which this stance can be intellectually supported.&quot;  --Daniel  Dombrowski, author of Hartshorne and the Metaphysics of Animal Rights	1999-02-23
US	52797417	R45GVV35EVTJ0	0252067398	679177044	Benjamin Franklin and His Gods	Books	5	13	16	N	Y	Advance praise for Benjamin Franklin and His Gods	&quot;An exceptionally fine piece of scholarship on an exceedingly complex figure and subject.  Walters has done a superb job of assimilating an enormous body of scholarship on various aspects of Franklin's personal and  intellectual life and an even more daunting body of Franklin's own prose.  A remarkably clear, straightforward, and patient account of the extremely  vexed issues surrounding Franklin's religious thought.&quot;  Ronald A. Bosco, editor of The Complete  Sermons of Ralph  Waldo Emerson	1999-02-23
