US	52807010	R536CMAXEQXQL	0892813105	441530961	The Phoenix Cards: Reading and Interpreting Past-Life Influences with the Phoenix Deck	Books	5	72	72	N	N	The past is never really past...	I don't know whether to be alarmed or amused at the reviewers who find this deck limited to one use, but it does make me wonder about their view of work with past lives.  This is NOT a deck to tell you that your name was Mary Smith-Jones-Brown and that you were born in Dublin-Cairo-Edinburgh in 1835-1637-3500BCE. Past-life regression and hypnosis may help you establish these things to your satisfaction, but I would caution that even the most competent and ethical of hypnotherapists has to work very hard to avoid influencing subject recall.<br /><br />This deck identifies 28 times/places/cultures with strongly resonant energy.  The cards are exquisitely painted, each in a very different style. The querent looks through the deck, allowing him/herself to be drawn to the most \\"magnetic\\" of the images. A reading is comprised of the seven most strongly attractive (in the magnetic sense) cards.  The author makes it very clear that this would not be the sum total of a soul's previous journeys; rather, the cards suggest which previous incarnations are the strongest influences on the querent's current life. (So, unless you , your life circumstances, issues and needs never change, repeating readings from time to time is a very useful process.) The readings may also be linked to planetary influences, which I find valuable.  Shorter readings combining past life and planetary influences may be done more frequently.  Once you get to know the deck, it is very simple, when confronted with a puzzling, unresolved, or \\"stuck\\" situation, to draw one (or two or three) cards, asking \\"What past life influences are most with me now?\\" I have always gained some illumination from doing this!<br /><br />This is one of the strongest decks I've workied with in terms of the art and the writing being equally strong. I find the descriptions and interpretations careful and thoughful, with a wealth of detail.  I appreciate the way information is presented, allowing the reader and/or querent to feel what is currently resonant -- and I have noticed that my understanding of the information grows and matures as I do.  There is plenty of room for further research and learning on the querent's part. The images are particularly useful for connecting to the \\"feel\\" of a culture, and they are so beautiful that using the deck is always a wonderful experience.<br /><br />I would never be able to sum up what has happened even so far in this life with one card reading once, so I can't imagine why anyone would assume the same of several past lives.  This is a wonderful deck for continued use over time.l what is currently resonant -- and I have noticed that my understanding of the information grows and matures as I do.  There is plenty of room for further research and learning on the querent's part. The images are particularly useful for connecting to the \\"feel\\" of a culture, and they are so beautiful that using the deck is always a wonderful experience. <br /> <br />I would never be able to sum up what has happened even so far in this life with one card reading once, so I can't imagine why anyone would assume the same of several past lives.  This is a wonderful deck for continued use over time.	2005-01-08
US	52807010	RKG0F9FYYVJ1V	0060572965	661385357	Dead Witch Walking	Books	2	21	29	N	Y	I think the BOOK is what's dead...	I believe this is the first time I have ever posted an Amazon review for a book I couldn't finish.  I usually think that's unfair.  But, gosh, I TRIED to finish it -- many, many times.  I thought the premise was great.  I was thrilled that Charlaine Harris recommended it.  The plot sounded cool. I think the author has talent. So? What's my problem? <br /> <br />First problem -- one of technique. Harrison has clearly learned the Big First Lesson of fantasy writing: Don't start your book by explaining your world.  Let the world emerge through the story. Unfortunately, Harrison has so MUCH back story, and her plot depends so much ON the back story, that it doesn't emerge -- it gets released in chunks whenever the plot starts to move -- because oops! we won't get the next bit unless we know what came before. I like a lot of complex plot, but I need it to be woven into a story, not paintballed onto it. This is a difficult problem for fantasy writers, and I fault Harrison's editor for not dealing with it.  One device that works well is Fforde's quoting from non-existent histories and autbiographies in the chapter headings in his Thursday Next series (The Eyre Affair, etc.).  Or have a traveling storyteller. Or a newbie who needs lots of explanation. <br /> <br />Second problem -- character.  I just could not connect with the protagonist. The book seemed to hint that she was a courageous and noble person, and that all her irritating personality problems were easily explained by her history. Only, of course, we're back to technical problem #1, and by the time we get some of her history, we just want to slap her.  (OK, pronouns, I want to slap her.  You probably don't.) She's not a person I want to sit down and chat with; she seems whiny, as opposed to outraged; and she has very devoted friends (I guess friends is the word), but no evidence of WHY they're devoted. (I think more comes out about that later in the book, perhaps.) For a person with the talents and street smartsshe has supposedly developed, she seems amazingly clueless, and I couldn't figure out why she wasn't dead several times over before the story even started. I can be devoted to protagonists with personality problems, but Rachel has BORING personality problems. <br /> <br />The positive side is that I really WAS interested in the other characters -- lively, unusual, kinky, unexpectedly endearing. Jenks the pixie is especially neat. (However, Rachel's ignorance about basic facts of Pixie life is bizarre for someone of her supposed know-how.) I was left feeling that this would be a much stronger novel if it had been told by one of the other characters as \\"the first of many adventures our beloved but impaired friend Rachel got us into.\\" <br /> <br />Third problem -- probably even more idiosyncratic than the first two. Ivy finds them this incredible CHURCH.  With an amzing witch's GARDEN.  To LIVE in.  With a fabulous witch BOOK collection. And Rachel is so busy trying to get killed in premature attempt to solve a problem she doesn't understand yet that she hardly notices. Something Will Happen in the plot and Ivy will remind her there is a resource at the church for her to use, and Rachel will be blown away by having this resource and then revert to total cluelessness.  This is supposed to be a smart woman -- a STREET smart woman.  Which should mean that she's tops at wringing every last bit of information out of her environment. Harrison came up with a setting far more interesting than is typical in fantasy, and even managed to make the setting be almost another character -- and then, having committed this act of brilliance, pretty much shoves it out of the way until she needs another chunk of action. <br /> <br />I would definitely try reading another book by Harrison -- I think she has talent as a writier, and an amazing imagination. She can even make compelling characters. I think the scope of this novel was way over her head technically, and she needed some significant guidance in presenting her protagonist. I have read books I liked much more that were nowhere near as well-written, but had a much better integration of plot and character.	2004-12-28
US	52807010	R3RWTJFWWAEPZ5	015204616X	120914957	The Grand Tour	Books	4	27	30	N	Y	Kate emerges; Cecy is submerged.	These really are delighful characters, and the plot is of a weight suitable to a Regency romance. The primary difference between this book and its predecessor is that, in this outing, I preferred the \\"Kate\\" sections to those by Cecilia.  \\"Sorcery and Cecilia\\" had a much more even tone.  I believe this may be due to the different literary devices -- no letters, as the two women are traveling together, often in uncomfortably cramped circumstances.Kate gets to use a diary format, but Cecy's is from her depostition concerning the plot they uncover and foil. Since Cecy is communicating with strangers in official positions, we hear very little about her adjustment to the married state or her inner thoughts about her own role.  Kate, however, is talking to herself.  We get to see her marriage from the inside.  We also get to find out what the results were from all those \\"tests\\" she was given at the end of the first book. Very satisfying -- and that's all I'm going to say about it. <br /> <br />The uneven tone is the only significant flaw in this book.  I agree that a single villain, well-known to the characters, is more interesting than a relative stranger plotting at a distance. However, the really fascinating idea behind the spell the plotters have put together more than makes up for it.  The book treats it lightly -- no Dan Brown hysterics -- but it has a lot more to it than appears on the surface. The characters are a lot of fun, and I particularly like getting to know more about the maids that Kate & Cecy hire.  <br /> <br />Writing a book together has to be a lot of work.  I would enjoy seeing this series continue with one couple \\"featured\\" in  each novel, receiving occasional letters/messages/spells from the other.  That way, Kate & Cecy (and their marriages) would get equal time -- but not at the SAME time!	2004-08-18
US	52807010	R1R0UJ9XXIM9CB	0441011675	477958501	Dead to the World (Southern Vampire Mysteries, Book 4)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	How Does Something So Good Keep Getting Better?	Wish I could give this one SIX stars -- I can't believe the new and fascinating vistas Harris has opened up in the supernatural arena, and the characters get deeper and more intriguing with each outing.<br />I rather dreaded the amnesia mentioned in the previews -- such a stale old device, yes?  Not this time!  Eric's amnesia has the effect of opening a door to a new country for Sookie, and may well have a more lasting impact on her than on him. I was delighted to see Alcide again, and the more Sam, the better! But what happens to Jason...oh, this is TRULY fascinating! Now I'm on pins and needles for the next book.<br />Harris deserves an extra star just for being able to write about sex in genuinely erotic, but not sick-making , detail -- and for her gentle mockery of the \\"throbbing manhood\\" genre at the same time.<br />And Sookie manages to cling to her resolution to take better care of herself, despite dangerous circumstances over which she has no control.  When this series opened, she was a sad and sorry critter, beaten down by a lifetime of being viewed as weird or \\"wanting  in the head.\\"  Now that she has spent time viewed as a person with power by others who are very powerful, she's showing real growth as she comes into her own.	2004-06-04
US	52807010	R2M8187BSOX0ZE	0425196216	399061876	Legend of the Jade Dragon: A Chintz 'n China Mystery	Books	5	11	13	N	N	This one rocks!	I'm another reader who was somewhat disappointed by the first in this series (though I still liked it a lot). Still, it was a promising start, and this novel is much stronger.  We've been introduced to most of the characters and the paranormal aspects, so the focus is on a riveting plot and excellent characterization.<br />The mundane mysteries are well-handled, if relatively slight, though their effect on the victims is powerful enough, but the paranormal mystery is fascinating. The Chinese magic is fascinating, and it's great that Emerald is frankly at a loss about what to do about something so far outside her own traditions and training. I really enjoyed the introduction of Jimbo, and I'm glad Emerald is sorting our her confusion about her love life.<br />White Feather is a powerful character and goes a long way toward addressing my one continuing concern: that Emerald needs an &quot;equal&quot; in the psychic arena (one who is still alive, that is). I hope that White Feather will continue to play a prominent role in the series -- and I'm looking forward to finding out what happens next!	2004-06-04
US	52807010	R2M54Z0VC1M7RA	0312291000	940891709	A Presumption of Death: A New Lord Peter Wimsey/Harriet Vane Mystery	Books	3	17	20	N	N	Less than stellar as a sequel...	I have to admit that I was hoping Walsh would get better at doing Sayers, &amp; instead she seems to have strayed further from her writing than in the previous attempt (which I enjoyed very much).  Walsh is a fine mystery writer in her own right, but her straightforward style of writing is greatly at odds with Sayers' lovely verbal curlicues. The best part about using Sayers' characters is that it really helps make clear the magnitude of the social upheaval that took place in WWII.  However, I think, on the whole, the story would have been better served if Walsh had told it as her own with her own characters.<br />That said, it is a fun story, well told.  Despite the irritating errors of continuity mentioned by previous reviewers, it has a captivating mix of humor, suspense and social history. The character development is fun, if not authoritative. Sayers made it clear that she was, in many ways, quite sick of Lord Peter and wanted him to &quot;grow up,&quot; though those are not the words she used to describe the process. Walsh's cautious exploration of that theme is quite interesting, but does have rather a &quot;fan fiction&quot; feel to it. Still, given Sayers' own short story, &quot;Tallboys,&quot; all her choices are well within the bounds of probability.<br />I rather hope that Walsh will abandon the pale-imitation-of-Sayers routine, and go back to her own Imogen Quy series.  Walsh is a strong and graceful writer in her own voice.	2003-08-09
US	52807010	RBWM3USRM2FH2	0345339258	129309985	Dibs in Search of Self: The Renowned, Deeply Moving Story of an Emotionally Lost Child Who Found His Way Back	Books	2	111	135	N	N	Axline AND Dibs' mother are both victims...	...of an inaccurate perspective.  In terms of writing quality and emotional &quot;pull,&quot; this book deserves 5 stars. And, like Freud, it is important to read -- in the correct context.  Axline was a pioneer of play therapy (for individuals and groups), and I think there is no doubt that it is  a fruitful method for interacting with troubled children.  In my practice as a psychologist, I have certainly found play therapy to be extremely productive because a) it is the natural &quot;language&quot; of children, and b) it is also one of the most important ways children learn.<br />So...yes, I believe Dibs (as presented by Axline -- we do have to rely on her description) closely fits the criteria for Asperger's Syndrome, a syndrome on the autistic spectrum where very bright children capable of complex thinking may be quite impaired in basic social, motor and communication skills.  And I do believe her therapy with him was very helpful because she provided a model for social interaction, one-on-one (group situations were probably too overwhelming) that allowed him to increase his positive interactions with others (which, in turn, increased their positive response to him).<br />I sympathize with reviewers who are outraged at the use of &quot;refrigerator mother&quot; theory in the book -- and with the reviewers who experienced the pain of unloving or abusive parents.  No, an unloving or uninvolved parent cannot &quot;cause&quot; autism.  However, it is also true that no autistic child was ever helped by a lack of love or being locked away from others.  What both Axline and many reviewers have not taken into account, though, is the degree to which love between parent and child is developed interactively:  Dibs mother blames herself because he was an unwanted child (and Axline agrees with this assessment), but it is clear that people unprepared and unwilling to be parents would need an outgoing, engaging child to &quot;seduce&quot; them into affiliation. Faced with a difficult and unresponsive child, with no experience of nurturing, it is not uncommon for parents to find interacting with their child so aversive that a &quot;refrigerated&quot; relationship develops. (Particularly if, as an astute earlier reviewer noted, one or both of Dibs' parents had ASperger's syndrome.) Dibs' sister, outgoing and charming, allows them to experience &quot;success&quot; as parents, so they, naturally, interact more warmly with her.  It might be said not that &quot;rerigerator mothers&quot; cause autism, but that autsim in a child can sometimes lead to refrigerated parents.<br />It is important to be fair to Axline, I think.  If Dibs was at least 15 years old when the book was written, she was working with him in the late 40's or early 50's -- and for her time, she showed considerable compassion for Dibs' parents.  Moreover, many reviewers are suspicious of the book, thinking that she claims to have achieved her results in 7-12 sessions.  Careful reading shows that Axline worked with Dibs approximately once weekly for nine months. Even allowing for illness and vacations, 30 or so sessions with a highly skilled therapist can support massive change in a young child. I'm inclined to believe that what &quot;worked&quot; for Axline was her modeling of social interactions at a pace slow enough for Dibs to absorb skills that led to positive reinforcement when he used them at home and at school. In addition, I think play therapy would have greatly ameliorated the anguish he undoubtedly experienced at being unloved.  In return, his mother was able to feel more successful and therefore more loving, which led to a slow but continual improvement in their relationship.<br />I have always wanted to hear Dibs' point of view.  He would, presumably, be in his mid to late 50's now, and I often wonder how adulthood has been for him, how he remembers Dr. Axline, and what he thinks of this book.fficult and unresponsive child, with no experience of nurturing, it is not uncommon for parents to find interacting with their child so aversive that a &quot;refrigerated&quot; relationship develops. (Particularly if, as an astute earlier reviewer noted, one or both of Dibs' parents had ASperger's syndrome.) Dibs' sister, outgoing and charming, allows them to experience &quot;success&quot; as parents, so they, naturally, interact more warmly with her.  It might be said not that &quot;rerigerator mothers&quot; cause autism, but that autsim in a child can sometimes lead to refrigerated parents.<br />It is important to be fair to Axline, I think.  If Dibs was at least 15 years old when the book was written, she was working with him in the late 40's or early 50's -- and for her time, she showed considerable compassion for Dibs' parents.  Moreover, many reviewers are suspicious of the book, thinking that she claims to have achieved her results in 7-12 sessions.  Careful reading shows that Axline worked with Dibs approximately once weekly for nine months. Even allowing for illness and vacations, 30 or so sessions with a highly skilled therapist can support massive change in a young child. I'm inclined to believe that what &quot;worked&quot; for Axline was her modeling of social interactions at a pace slow enough for Dibs to absorb skills that led to positive reinforcement when he used them at home and at school. In addition, I think play therapy would have greatly ameliorated the anguish he undoubtedly experienced at being unloved.  In return, his mother was able to feel more successful and therefore more loving, which led to a slow but continual improvement in their relationship.<br />I have always wanted to hear Dibs' point of view.  He would, presumably, be in his mid to late 50's now, and I often wonder how adulthood has been for him, how he remembers Dr. Axline, and what he thinks of this book.	2003-05-18
US	52807010	R20PBBGBZPU2F2	0756401011	565076810	The Gates of Sleep (Elemental Masters, Book 2)	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Oh, dear!	I really do like Lackey's work most of the time, and I particularly liked the first book in this loosely knit \\"series,\\" (The Fire Rose).  The second book, Serpent's Shadow, was slightly weaker, but very engaging.  This one...well, despite the title, it's very, very tired.<br />To be fair to Lackey, a large part of the problem stems from the tale she is using as her starting point.  \\"Sleeping Beauty\\" has almost no appeal anymore (if it ever did), as nothing HAPPENS in it. Of the many updates/rewrites/transformations that have been tried with this story, only McKinley's \\"Spindle's End\\" seems to me to manage any dramatic force.  However, to achieve the drama, McKinley had to elaborate the tale to an almost unrecognizable degree -- and a good thing, too.<br />This version has some interesting characters (the artists), though the bad guys, alas, are not among them.  However, one wonders if the christening curse affected the brains of Marina's guardians:  they wait 'til she's SEVENTEEN to start training in magical protections?  After her aunt kidnaps her, they never bother to call on her tutor, a woman with enough social clout to make contact with Marina?<br />And what's with the so-called romance?  Lackey was building up an unusual and attractive character in the Vicar, and he appeared to have all kinds of potential, but all of a sudden, Marina is sure she loves the doctor.  I think the irritated exchanges between the two of them are supposed to be viewed as expressions of sexual or romantic tension, but they simply confirm that this is not a credible couple.<br />The pacing of the plot is very uneven, and it would have helped the book greatly if earlier sections had been rewritten to provide more logical transitions for what happens later.  The writing manages to be overly wordy and uninformative at the same time.  When you have nothing much to say, it doesn't help to say it at great length. Also, I think the series is beginning to suffer from having a major cast changein every book.  The characters in Serpent's Shadow were much more vital and would probably have been improved by another outing.<br />All I can say is that I hope Lackey gets back up to her usual exciting standard by the next book.	2003-05-03
US	52807010	R2TXXB3KBWWMHF	0618194614	347920397	Alia Waking	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	The Truth May Set You Free, But It Also Makes You Lonely...	Alia, a young woman in a culture that provides few exceptions to wife-and-mother roles for women, has spent her whole life practicing to be chosen for the keenten, the warrior sisterhood.  When she and her best friend take a chance opportunity to capture two young \\"enemies,\\" she hopes that this will win her favor in the keenten's eyes. Unfortunately for her own peace of mind, Alia's habit of reflecting on her actions to see if they meet the demands of \\"honor\\" required by the keenten forces her to look at the dark side of her own culture's limiting beliefs. As a result, she feels compelled to uphold a standard of truth that sets her apart from others in her community -- including the keenten.  This story, with its fascinating culture and believeable characters, would be well worth reading just for those reasons.  What sets it apart, though, is Alia's growing understanding of and respect for a community she has hardly noticed in the past -- the Healers -- and  her discovery that losing her connection with the mind set of the keenten has freed her to walk her own unique and fascinating path, providing her with life choices far richer than she had known before. Readers are part of Alia's reflections , her evaluation of received beliefs, her path toward finding her own true self --  learning  important life skills as an exciting adventure. The limitations of either/or beliefs and the value of thinking \\"outside the box\\" are an integral thread of the wonderful plot, rather than an inserted message.<br />The culture Alia lives in is fascinating; the story is exciting; she's  a normally flawed and very admirable person. I'm very much hoping that this is only the first book about this world!	2003-04-18
US	52807010	RDM4D6IEPQQO7	0060281162	820531271	One Candle	Books	4	15	15	N	N	A Few Errors Can't Steal the Magic of this Book	I agree with other reviewers that it is a pity that Ms. Bunting's editors didn't assign someone knowledgeable to review the text and help the artist with moon phases and menorah placement.  On the other hand, many of the Jews who love and celebrate Hanukkah do not practice strictly in accordance with dietary and other religious laws.<br />What makes this book special is showing a festive, cheerful holiday having such significance in the practice of one's religion and being one's true self that Grandma, as a young girl, risked death to observe it.  Scholars have often been somewat dismissive of Hanukkah, regarding it as a minor holiday, and yet it is a favorite for many people.  This story helps us understand why.  There is a message of hope, since Grandma has survived and is surrounded by a loving family, but the deft characterization of Great-Aunt Rose shows that suffering a horror like the Holocaust stays with one for life.<br />As a school librarian, I'm finding this a powerful introduction to the Holocaust, as well as to Hanukkah. The children are baffled and horrified at the idea that anyone would be imprisoned, starved, killed, \\"just because...\\" - and even more aghast when we point out that the hate and killings continue now with Jews AND other ethnic/religious groups. The narrator's musings at the end of the story as to why Grandma wants to remember such a painful time in her life allow us to look at what we have to remember to keep it from happening again.	2002-11-30
US	52807010	R1Y5Y9EW2DUB7N	0312262469	670934753	Last Scene Alive (Aurora Teagarden Mysteries, Book 7)	Books	4	32	33	N	Y	Roe's getting back on the track...	and it's typical that it needed a murder to rouse her. This series seems to have recovered a little of the light-heartedness that had dimmed over the last few books, but it is NOT (despite idiot jacket blurbs) a \\"cozy.\\"<br />The plot is thinner than is typical in a Harris mystery -- mostly, I think,so readers can get to know the \\"new\\" Roe -- a woman who was widowed with shocking suddenness as an almost incidental incident in a series of nasty crimes. Harris does an excellent job with Roe's gradual recovery, though she focuses exclusively on Martin Bartell's death and ignores the trauma and misery that must have resulted from the attendant crimes. And what would be sufficient to distract Aurora Teagarden in her half-frozen state?  Murders old and new, of course.<br />The movies are coming to town, and they are filming a script based on a true-crime book dealing with a horrid series of murders that plagued Lawrenceton many years earlier.  Roe had been instrumental in exposing the killers in that case (nearly dying herself in the process). Roe is NOT happy about this movie, which tastelessly commercializes the deaths of people she knew and cared about, but the rest of the town is star struck. The movie provides an excellent vehichle for bringing Roe's sullen and immature stepson, Barrett, and her one-time, almost-boyfriend, Robin (author of the true crime book), back to town.<br />However, the movie set is not where Roe finds important information about the new crimes in Lawrenceton.  It's her library's collection that holds some of the keys to the mysteries.  The murder itself has a fairly wispy plot with not much of anything to detect; the associated crimes are somewhat more melodramatic.<br />If you've been reading this series, you'll enjoy the development of several long-time characters, as well as Roe's deepening relationship with her mother. This book does a great job in setting up the next one, and it is absorbing to read.  If you are new to the series, though,do NOT read this one first.  It doesn't quite stand alone.	2002-08-10
US	52807010	R1IWAJ98U0IZZ	0140503218	355011192	Salt Hands (Picture Puffins)	Books	1	7	38	N	N	Urbanites love this kind of idiocy...	...because they know nothing about real deer.  Let's get it straight, OK?  A deer is a large animal with potentially dangerous antlers and hooves.  A deer is a WILD animal.  While I wouldn't say no-one has ever tried this stunt (getting a deer to eat salt from a human's hands), it is neither safe nor fair to the deer.  Deer have been known to injure and, rarely, to kill, humans who have moved in on their space.  They are not aggressive animals, but they have spent most of their existence learning to defend themselves.  It is tempting to wish for a more \\"human\\" relationship with wild animals, but it almost never does them any good, no matter how satisfying it may be to the selfishness of humans.<br />This book is beautifully written and has very pretty illustrations, but it trades the magic of reality for the \\"magic\\" of sentiment.  It IS magical to watch a deer in the moonlight; to be close enough to hear its breathing and watch it eat. Why add the dangerous (and rather insulting) get-the-deer-to-eat-out-of-your-hand motif?  Compare this book, for example, to Jane Yolen's \\"Owl Moon.\\" Yolen confines her sentiment to the interaction among humans, and lets the magic of seeing owls in the wild speak for itself.  By comparison, \\"Salt Hands\\" is way down the scale, moving toward \\"Bambi.\\"<br />If you do feel you like this book enough to read it to a child, PLEASE explain how incredibly dangerous it is to try to get this close to a deer, and talk about safe ways to enjoy the wild animals around us.	2002-06-05
US	52807010	R3M8AX3FF1HVCG	0823033201	859292207	One Space Living	Books	3	43	49	N	N	Misleading Title	If this book had been called &quot;One Space Industrial Conversions&quot; or something along those lines, it would easily deserve 4 stars.  The spaces discussed are interesting to look at and the photos are beautiful, though they often fail to illustrate the idea discussed in the caption.  However, there is no way this book lives up to its title -- there are brief nods to a beach apartment and a &quot;purpose-built&quot; apartment, but the other studies are conversions in huge, formerly industrial spaces.  I found most of the designs lacking in human scale and full of bad feng shui (no, No, NO you DON'T sleep on top of your bathroom -- ick!), but that is not what the book is trying to address.<br />This book badly needed to look at new construction -- single space houses using the not-so-big house concepts, for example, and loft redos in styles other than minimalist, pale, sheer, etc.<br />There are some interesting storage ideas, and some extremely creative uses of a container truck in dividing the spaces in one project.<br />I found the book interesting though incomplete, lacking practical information, and having a much more single-minded focus than the title suggests.  It's an interesting supplement to an existing collection, but there are a dozen better books to get first.	2002-02-12
US	52807010	RWBQON2L89IJL	1862073988	749801953	Shamrock Tea	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Enthralling!	I am a reader who demands a good story, so novels that play with structure often bore me.  &quot;Shamrock Tea,&quot; however, is just fascinating to read.  I have to give credit to the author here, because I can't think of any good reason to be gripped by discussions of pigment and what seems like an infinitude of hagiography.  The reason is:  just plain superlative writing.  This is not a book without a plot; it has an extremely well-structured plot that is not immediately evident to the reader.  The sense that something, and something major, is happening even though one can't perceive it creates  an almost addictive tension.  Moreover, even after the primary &quot;missing piece&quot; of the plot is supplied near the end of the book, the author has the plot taking another dizzying turn.  It's really exciting to read writing of this caliber!<br />If you read this book, you will understand why I'm hoping that Carson has plans, not for a sequel, but a companion novel (think of the structure of the &quot;Norman Conquest&quot; trilogy of plays, here -- characters offstage in one play are onstage in another, co-occurring play about the same characters).  I'd trust him to make it work brilliantly.<br />I see that I have not mentioned what is actually the major theme of the novel, and find that I'm reluctant to do so because it's so much fun when the pieces come together and enlighten (rather than surprise) you.  I will say that although this book is not written like a fantasy, people who read complex, cerebral fantasies are likely to enjoy it very much even thought it's not quite in that genre.	2002-01-25
US	52807010	RYO6VTQXOTVI7	0970401612	333324949	A Step Forward In Interior Design	Books	2	2	2	N	Y	It's Hard To Be Fair...	to this book.  Since other reviewers loved it, it obviously meets a need.  Good points: if you  follow Ballweg's system, you are pretty much guaranteed not to make expensive mistakes; furniture templates (so that you can rearrange rooms on paper)are helpful.  I believe if you work with this book, your rooms will probably be pleasant enough to look at and you will have a degree of confidence in how you reached your decisions.  Fair enough.  I should point out,though, that this same information is available many other places.  This is the first decorating book I have ever read where I did not get one single new idea about anything. <br />It might also be helpful to know that the author frequently mentions hotel decor as an example of how beautiful rooms are put together (and of course there are some, but not in the price range of most readers).  She also manages to be enthusiastic about colored doilies and crystal ash trays on stands.  These things are matters of individual preference, obviously, but I think it is fair to say that most people who are interested in design will not find these ideas useful or appealing.<br />What really makes this a fairly terrible book, though, is the dreadful writing. The sentence structure ranges from awkward to bizarre to tortured to just plain incorrect.  And the ENTIRE book uses &quot;compliment&quot; where the author clearly means &quot;complement.&quot;  Yes, this DOES matter.  Instead of saying that a couch and chair, for example, work well together and are part of a unified and harmonious &quot;look,&quot; what she's really implying is that your chair is praising your couch for its youth and prettiness now that it's wearing those beautiful colored doilies.  If your sense of humor is in good shape, I will admit that it can be entertaining.<br />Bottom line:  if you are a nervous and/or first-time decorator, try &quot;Use What You Have Decorating&quot; and Dylan Landis's &quot;Elegant and Easy Rooms.&quot;  Your local hardware/home improvement store will have all the information you need about product use and surface preparation.  Indeed, the bigger home improvement stores may have lists and plans for decorating that far outrank Ballweg's.  Watching TV shows that show room redecoration is also a great way to learn more about what you like &amp; don't like, and the mechanics of putting a look together.  And then all your frinds really can &quot;compliment &quot; you on the way your rooms look!	2002-01-16
US	52807010	R3DDP997YBGBZ2	020104322X	677237561	Mathematics... A Way of Thinking	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	Teaches the teacher and the student!	There is a lot to appreciate in this book, especially for the classroom teacher.  Robert Baratta-Lorton put a lot of time and effort into developing classroom management ideas as well as math teaching concepts, and they're still worth looking at.  The math teaching ideas are very sound and apply to lots of situations -- I've used them in summer school, classrooms, tutoring, with adult learners -- and I always learn something myself.<br />With many states requiring standards-based math lessons, and the constructivist approach preferred by most math gurus, this way of teaching is not currently fashionable.  It's still an excellent supplement in a classroom that's using a program like &quot;Mathland,&quot; and a very sound teaching system for home schoolers, adults and the significant minority of kids who just don't get the constructivist method.  If your child has become thoroughly confused by whatever math program s/he has at school, and you want to help but aren't sure how, this would be the book I'd recommend.  It's logical, well-sequenced, works in small steps, and the activities are fun and have practical applications -- just clear a BIG space on the dining room table!	2001-07-30
US	52807010	R162CB5DA018C1	0441008534	486021067	Dead Until Dark  (Sookie Stackhouse/True Blood, Book 1)	Books	5	459	492	N	Y	This one grabs you by the throat...	sorry, that was bad!  I am a big Charlaine Harris fan and only mildly interested in vampires.  But the combination of a an uncontrollably mind-reading heroine, newly legal vampires, a serial killer, a shape-shifter -- how could I resist?  I find I don't want to say much at all about the plot, as it's too easy to give away some really exciting twists.  It's fair to say that the story postulates vampires as a newly-emerged legal minority (word is they've been victimized by superstition, when really the poor people have been subjected to a terrible virus) with attendant vampire-philics and phobics roiling the waters of cultural change.  Vampires can now subsist on artificial blood, so they don't have to be a danger to anyone.  Harris has thought through vampire culture and the interaction of that culture with &quot;normal&quot; society to great effect -- the book would be fun to read just for that .<br />I have to admit, though, that nothing about the vampires interested me as much as the main character, Sookie.  If you think you want to be able to know what other people are thinking, the limitations of Sookie's life will make you think again.  She's brave, brilliant and decent and watching her (and her sex life) develop is a true joy.<br />Meanwhile, the book is tightly and extravagantly plotted and the psychological effects are fascinating and disturbing, absolutely gripping.  Read it over a weekend or on vacation so you won't have to put it down -- you'll just have to know what happens next!<br />Harris has set this up to continue as a series, and if she can continue this level of quality, people will be lining up for each new book.	2001-07-30
US	52807010	R2C21HJZY5APKT	0553578251	707597956	Night Work (Kate Martinelli)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	The writing is still great...	but the research -- or lack of it -- hurts the book terribly!  One of the reasons I'm a great admirer of King's is that she usually has fascinating intellectual themes, meticulously researched and beautifully woven into the plot.  There is one such strand in this book: the scary information about present-day bride burning.  Unfortunately, King seems to have assumed she already knew the answer to the perenially frustrating &quot;Why do women stay?&quot; question, but she doesn't.  Indeed, the author seems as fogged as Kate about this, so that the issue lacks the insight and compassion King usually brings to her stories.  The irony is that, if she'd done her work and read any one of the basic books on this topic, she'd have found a wealth of *really* terrifying information that would have snapped her plot into shape in no time.  She'd have had a sharp focus for the relationship of bride burning to other forms of violence in the home, the violence against women that is such a strong theme in the Old Testament, and, ultimately, a better grounding for a good cop's belief that we can't afford to tolerate any form of vigilantism, even when it's sadistically funny.<br />I really enjoy delving into Old Testament interpretation, but this, too, was hampered by King's inability to line it up with her plot twists...and she was so close!  Try reading Diamant's &quot;The Red Tent&quot; and you will see the richness and connections King missed with this.<br />I found the relationships among the characters compelling enough to keep me glued to the book, even when my mind was groaning at the cliched response to battering, so I don't think King's writing has lost any of its punch (so to speak). I'm hoping the next Martinelli will involve topics King knows she has to investigate thoroughly so that this series will get back to its usual standard.	2001-07-27
US	52807010	R3FIUYTV0VXE0S	0060284056	746909545	A Gift from Zeus	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Don't date an Olympian...	unless you want to be dead or inanimate.  This book is delightfully wry in its retellings, and William Steig's illustrations strike the perfect (irreverent) note.  It's not really a kids' book, mostly because few kids will appreciate the dry humor, but I think there are plenty of 10 and ups who will  understand what is going on (and if they don't, no big deal).  True, I won't be able to get away with reading it to my (K-6)school library classes, but there are plenty of kids in the 10 plus age range for whom it's appropriate.  If they can read it and they want to read it, let them!   Of greater importance:  don't miss it yourself!	2001-07-23
US	52807010	R2JTQ9QV1FUQZX	1567183840	151209988	Shapeshifter Tarot	Books	5	21	21	N	Y	A powerful guide for ongoing spiritual work	I bought this expecting it to be a helpful adjunct deck, and it has become my favorite deck for daily use.  There are several strengths:  it is beautiful visually; the images and their spiritual/archetypal/historical connections are thoroughly explained; and there are some very powerful spreads.  No interpretation of reversed cards is provided because none is needed -- the interpretation presents an energetic and spirtitual frame of reference as a whole -- with the seeker's actions determining how that energy will be used.  I'm impressed with the Major Arcana interpretations particularly, as the good card/bad card shtick is bypassed altogether.  Instead the authors look at the NATURE of each card, so that the reader can work with energetic resonances instead of simplistic prophecies of joy or doom.<br />I'm still struggling a bit with the elemental assignments (Swords to Fire and Wands to Air), but I find the interpretation of the cards themselves excellent.  Swords, as a suit, is always difficult to interpret (most of the cards seem so negative that one wonders what the point of the suit is), but in this deck, the energetic and spiritual purpose of the often difficult cards is made clear as part of a complete life.<br />While this is a fine deck for a beginner, I think those who have experience with more traditional decks will really appreciate what the authors and artist have accomplished -- a beautiful deck that encourages an expanded and responsible spiritual life.	2000-10-20
US	52807010	RRFDPG7Y5KYD0	0312203063	511972667	A Fool and His Honey (Aurora Teagarden Mysteries, Book 6)	Books	4	12	14	N	Y	This one was hard to put down!	In case anyone has forgotten the &quot;real&quot; Roe Teagarden, may I recommend a return trip to REAL MURDERS?  This is NOT a &quot;cozy&quot; series, never was, and A FOOL AND HIS HONEY shows Roe dealing with dreadful  deaths and the nastiness humans can inflict on one another.  The humorous  moments (particularly with her husband Martin's ex-wife, Cindy) support the  development of the characters and the tension of the plot.  And there is a  LOT of tension -- there is always a sense that something is hovering just  outside one's peripheral vision. Harris has skillfully conveyed the  frustration the characters feel as they seek information, and their sense  that they are in danger (which they are) unless they can find what's really  going on.<br />My only (slight) criticism is the way the police courteously  leave Roe (thorn in their side from several previous cases) and Martin  (whom they've always regarded with dark suspicion) to themselves after a  grisly murder and disappearance is (again!) discovered at their house.   Pure fantasy!  Still, a  little suspension of disbelief is part of novel  reading.<br />Harris has left so many possibilites for future plots that it's  dizzying to contemplate.  This is a tough, exciting and suspenseful  mystery.  I can't wait to see what happens next in this series.	2000-07-16
US	52807010	R2ODMKQJNVP60K	0684856808	416860580	Inspiration Decoration: Starting Points for Stylish Rooms	Books	4	16	18	N	Y	A very fine addition to a decorating library...	This book is an elegant introduction to visual thinkng and the elements of design.  Judith Wilson goes beyond obvious starting points (color or fabric, for example) and shows the reader ways to build from more abstract  concepts like space and natural light, as well.  Many of the connections  she makes to the original inspiration are too subtle to be noticed even at  third glance, but a look at the final result demonstrates the cohesive look  she is aiming for.  There are many excellent photographs (though I WISH  people who do photography for decorating books would show all the details  mentioned in the text), with several before and afters.<br />One of Wilson's  strengths is the variety of ways she examines for working from an  inspiration:  color? color combinations?  pattern? scale? texture? theme?  historical period?  geographical location?  Look, she'll say, at how the  shape of the legs echoes the stripe in the upholstery -- and it does!   Meanwhile, she casually mentions many general decorating tips and excellent  strategies.  My favorite was use of mirrors in a small entry way -- instead  of a cheap or inadequate mirror, or a mirror in a jarring style -- 9 small  mirrors in wood frames painted the same color as the moulding and hung  3-square. Tranquil, elegant and comparatively inexpensive... I wish I had a  wall that needed this!<br />Despite the emphasis on starting points, this is  probably not a &quot;first&quot; book for DIY decorators.  A reader who has  done some decorating previously and read widely in this area will get more  from this book.  I'd use it with Dylan Landis' Elegant and Easy Rooms and  Lauri Ward's Use What You Have Decorating to get some solid help with  basics.  Readers who use the display ideas in Rebecca Purcell's Interior  Alchemy as a starting point may like Wilson's techniques to have the drama  without the clutter.	2000-06-06
US	52807010	R2I4CUZC2TQDZB	0380798573	93178652	The Falcon at the Portal (Amelia Peabody, Book 11)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	This series is getting better again!	I love Amelia and her family, even when their enemies are confused, disorganized or downright silly. However, I feel that a really devious villain strengthens the plot, just as maturity strengthens the characters.   This is the best since, THE SNAKE,THE CROCODILE &amp; THE DOG,I think. The  only disappointment was to my greed, as I'm dying to know what happens  next!<br />I won't rehash the plot here (I do wish people would NOT say so  much about the plots of mysteries -- spoils the fun!).  I particularly  liked the development of Ramses &amp; Emerson's characters as they relate  to Sennia, and the deepening of Amelia's relationship with Abdullah (OK, so  he's dead -- you think a little thing like that could stop either of  them?).  I enjoy the use of letters and other narratives to tell the story,  and in this book I felt I finally began to understand Nefret's apparent  blindness in her relationship with Ramses.<br />Kudos to Peters for exploring  the development of the Egyptian Nationalist movement, for developing a most  excellent villain, and, of course, for bringing back the ineffable Percy!   Readers who love outrageous plots, eccentric characters who defy stasis and  the jolt of story lines turned inside-out will go for this.  Readers who  don't...won't!	2000-04-16
US	52807010	R3EC9CTTCC48QA	0892966572	776991596	The Balloon Man (Sarah Kelling and Max Bittersohn Mysteries)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Absurdity and Desperate Emotions Nicely Intermingled...	Maceod has such a talent for zany details and irrelevant (therefore,quite realistic!) conversation that it's easy to ignore the emotional content of her mysteries. As a devoted series reader,I've always been grateful for the  way the spotlight moves from Sarah &amp; Max to others in their circle and  then back again -- it keeps the series fresh, I think.<br />This time, the  focus is on Sarah &amp; Max (and Davy) with a vengeance!  The joyous  confusion of Max's nephew's wedding is a grand setting for the return of an  old,sad problem (set with rubies) from Sarah's first marriage.  After  confusion piled on confusion (&quot;Damn it,&quot; sputtered Max,  &quot;can't we stop conversing in questions?&quot;) causes us and the  characters to wish for something decisive to happen...it does...they do --  whatever!  And then things don't STOP happening...<br />MacLeod keeps the  drama of real and painful emotions balanced with the melodrama of the  ridiculous.  The people and the plot are delicious, and although I didn't  want to put it down, I wasn't afraid to go to sleep,either.  Silly &amp;  scary is a great combination!  The wrap-up is classic MacLeod:  confection,  compassion and confusion.<br />If you're new to this series I would recommend  that you read &quot;The Family Vault&quot; and &quot;The Palace  Guard&quot;, at least, before you tackle any of the others. My own  preference would be to line 'em all up and knock 'em back one after another  (Uncle Jem must be rubbing off on me), but it isn't essential...and  certainly most of Sarah &amp; Max's relatives would never be that logical!	2000-01-30
US	52807010	R1Z8S832ACLNL9	156718457X	278615715	The Sacred Circle Tarot: A Celtic Pagan Journey	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	A beautiful, complex deck which needs an experienced reader	This deck would be a powerful aid to insight just by virtue of its artwork, but the interpretations are also strong and as well-grounded in psychology as they are in pagan thought.  I agree that it is unfortunate  that the backs indicate whether or not the cards are reversed, although I  often read with all cards upright,and just let myself be drawn to the  reversed interpretation when it's appropriate. A bigger problem to me, and  the reason this has not become my everyday deck, is that the meanings of  several minors have been changed - significantly! (Two of Swords is  Opposition,rather than Intimacy, for example.)  This is a good deck for a  reader who has had a thorough grounding in basic tarot archetypes and  standard variations.	1999-12-28
US	52807010	R3CISCWOD9YPPM	0807541702	506617315	The Key into Winter	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A compelling story with the force of myth	THE KEY INTO WINTER opens with Clara begging her mother to tell (one more time) about the time she almost lost forever the key that would turn autumn into winter.  As a little girl, Clara's mother hoped that if winter never  came, her beloved grandmother would not die.  She learns, though, that not  only does the order of the world depend on the seasons, but that  grandmother herself is eager to move through winter so that she can have  one last spring.    In simple and powerful language, Janet Anderson  addresses many themes:  the need for natural order, reconciliation iwth  death, the longing to control time and hold fast NOW when it seems so  precious, and the powerful inter-generational bonds in a matristic culture.   Although the author does not say so explicitly, the constantly recurring  constellation of grandmother-mother-daughter is a living representation of  the Triple Goddess as Crone, Mother and Maiden.    David Soman's gorgeous  watercolors illuminate the text with their own beautiful rhythms and  depictions of rural African-AMerican family life.  The interrelationship of  text and pictures makes this an astonishingly powerful book.	1999-12-21
US	52807010	R3OOHPBU10THG9	0395746566	627622587	Sector 7 (Caldecott Honor Book)	Books	5	30	30	N	N	An incredibly rich story that demands repeated readings!	This is a wildly inventive and complex story, well served by Wiesner's artistic skill and coherence. From the textured, &quot;cloudy&quot; endpapers, through the carefully framed drawings celebrating the design of  the Empire State Building, to the glorious burst of unframed beauty in the  clouds, every detail carries part of this exciting adventure.  (It is my  own belief, by the way, that the clouds, having seen the boy's drawings on  the bus window, come get him , in particular, to draw new designs for them.   His visit to Sector 7 is no accident!) The repeated and varied use of  frames, the intense architectural sensibility, and the freshness of the  boy's bright red cap, scarf and gloves pull the reader into the story at a  dizzying pace that feels like flying. Feel free to share it with children  if you're in a generous frame of mind -- but keep it for yourself!	1999-11-20
US	52807010	R1OI6FL902OZ0P	0312181965	322969225	Thrones, Dominations: A Lord Peter Wimsey / Harriet Vane Mystery	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Walsh lets Sayers speak for herself...	I'm astonished at Walsh's restraint!  Most re-creations seem to &quot;over-write&quot; the original author.  Walsh, by contrast, is considerably less wordy than Sayers (compare the Dowager Duchess in this outing to her previous incarnations in &quot;Busman's Honeymoon&quot; or &quot;Whose Body?&quot;).  If Sayers had completed this book, it would have been 100 pages longer.  While I miss the original over-the-top word play; the combination of pith and piffle, I have to admit that attempting to replicate it would have been impossible and off-key.  By sticking to the truth of the characters as Sayers developed them, Walsh lets the echoes of earlier conversations resonate.  Writing another author's book is a very ungrateful task, and I think Walsh was most gracious to undertake it.  Walsh's own books, by the way, are excellent -- I'm hoping the first Imogen Quy mystery will soon be re-issued.	1998-07-02
