US	52808271	R2K4G9CM9XRNN6	0060532920	879661551	Ties That Bind	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Convoluted	Phillip Margolin is a master of bizarre plot twists and surprise endings, so I suppose it's a little unfair to criticize him for it.  But when Jeffrey Deaver put Lincoln Rhyme up against a master illusionist throughout \\"The Vanished Man\\", it brought legitimacy to all the twists and turns he built into the story.  When Margolin suddenly introduces a magician working for the FBI to explain an elaborate scam no one could see coming, it comes off like a gimmick that springs the final surprise.<br />On his web site Margolin says he wanted to write a book about a district attorney with a dark secret in his past, but that dark secret is nothing compared to the everyday doings of the plot.  Splitting the stage between assistand DA Tim Kerrigan and attorney Amanda Jaffe, who brings her entourage from \\"Wild Justice\\", didn't work that well.  The tie that binds them, the plight of a pimp and pusher to the rich and powerful, just doesn't ring true.<br />Despite the jumbled characters who weren't particularly well developed and a conspiracy of powerful old men who are evil to the core, ther is some pretty good action and suspense as the story builds to a finale.  Here's the acid test:<br />When you are about halfway through \\"Ties That Bind\\", ask yourself:<BR>     Who will kill whom with an ax?<BR>     Who will get away with murder?<BR>     Who will assist the murderer in hiding that secret?<br />When you know the answers, ask yourself - did that make any sense?	2003-04-16
US	52808271	R302IARO90FGIS	0739302612	563294014	Back Story	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Dead Men on Campus	It's always a pleasure to hear Joe Mantegna read what Robert B. Parker writes.  His flat delivery of the \\"I said, he said\\" dialogue along with distinctive accents and inflections for Spenser's supporting cast produce an almost melodic presentation.  Spenser and friends continue to age gracefully, projecting the wisdom and perspective of those not too far from cashing their first Social Security checks.  True, their libidos are at least a decade younger than they are, and when it comes to dealing with the bad guys, of course Spenser and Hawk are still in their prime.<br />There's no neo political correctness either.  Ethnic stereotypes are fair game when describing any character, and Parker has a gift for crafting observations that are irreverent, but fair and in no way offensive.  The story unfolds with great dialogue and pace as we become reacquainted with Martin Quirk and Vinnie Morris and meet Nathan Epstein, the savvy Special Agent in Charge of the Boston FBI office.  Pearl the wonderdog who was showing sighns of age in \\"Widow's Walk\\" is gone.  No rehash of how, just a side trip to Toronto to pick up the new Pearl.<br />Hanging around with Parker's core characters is so much fun that it's actually disruptive when he sends Spenser off to solve a twenty eight-year-old murder.  Daryl Silver the stunning actress friend of Paul Giacomin who starts Spenser on this quest is little more than a mannequin.  I wish Parker would give his damsels in distress a little more substance a la Elmore Leonard.  Mob boss Sonny Karnofsky is now pushing eighty.  He has lived in the same North Shore mansion for more than forty years, so it's a bit of a stretch that nobody knows he has a daughter in her 50s who lives a couple of towns away, the wife of his ex-bodyguard Ziggy.  But that plot line does create an opportunity for Spenser and Hawk to meet Jesse Stone.  The two leading men from different Parker stories turn out to be surprisingly compatible.<br />Don't even try to figure out why Parker chooses \\"Taft\\" University and Harvard Stadium for the book's two shootouts.  As to how a bunch of pot smoking college drop outs from the sixties, a couple of ex-cons and the FBI all fit together in the cover up of and old murder - well let's just say the ending is the weakest part of the story.  But I think you'll enjoy the pictures Parker paints of Spenser's Boston, dialogue that seldom contains a superfluous word and an old action hero who really is getting better with age.	2003-04-01
US	52808271	R2RONHNML5ZIVA	1586214837	703746704	Derailed	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Deranged	'Derailed' starts with a high school teacher from Bennington, Vt. who spends two nights a week teaching English to inmates at Attica offering some poignant insights into the insensitivity and realities of our criminal justice system.  Soon he is reading a story submitted by an inmate that starts with a flirtation on a commuter train and progresses to the complete collapse of ad man Charles Schine's life.  The jump from Attica to the LIRR makes no sense, even less so when the narrator tells us that it is his story.<br />The linear progression of Charles' story, the brutality of it and his spineless stupidity made me uncomfortable, to the point where I put 'Derailed' down in disgust more than once.  I confess to picking it up again to see when Charles was going to snap out of it and how the teacher in Attica, the ad man from Long Island and the criminal characters in what started as a prisoner's writings were all going to tie together.  Very weakly, it turns out.<br />As he does with the character of Charles, Siegel successfully forced me to look at things I really didn't want to see.  That earns him a few stars for writing technique, but he loses them with the end result.  It really is a ridiculous story.	2003-03-23
US	52808271	R1L2A8575OX5H6	0375508619	513748034	The Hunt for Bin Laden: Task Force Dagger	Books	5	10	15	N	N	The Voice of America's Heroes - are we listening?	Stand up and salute Lt. Col. Dave Miller who made the case that a small Special Ops force could move fast and decisively in Afghanistan, Col. John Mulholland who organized and ran Task Force Dagger and a couple of hundred superbly trained, dedicated fighting men who accomplished what armies before them could not.  They are the real heroes of this story.<br />Moore's book describes America's quick, decisive response to 9/11, but it raises at least four points that are deeply disturbing eighteen months later:<br />1. How much is the military establishment's discomfort with Special Operations costing us in the War on Terrorism?  Clearly, the plan that succeeded in Afghanistan did not come through the mainstream chain of command.  True, Moore does not give General Tommy Franks an opportunity to counter the barrage of shots he takes at him, but when Franks took an active role in Operation Anaconda, we heard assessments quite different from the \\"unqualified and absolute success\\" Franks claimed it to be.  With hundreds of thousands of our troops poised to liberate Iraq, I sincerely hope the value of Special Operations has been fully thought through and integrated into our country's current plan.<br />2. In Afghanistan in the fall of '01 Irani and Pakistani support for al-Qaida was more obvious and more immediate than that of Iraq.  The ISI seemed to open Pakistan's borders to get its al-Qaida and Taliban partisans home.  Iran swooped into Herat to offer arms and support for the new Afghans in charge.  Are we still working effectively to lay the foundation of a structure that will deal with the axis of evil that is still there, or are we moving on too soon?  When a Green Beret security detail saved Hamid Karzai from assassination and the new commanding general ordered them to shave their beards and get back in uniform because the looked sloppy on CNN, you wonder if we've got the right follow-up plan in place.<br />3. I won't go into the details of the uprising at Qala-i-Jangi and the murder of \\"Mike\\" Spann except to say that it's a story much more horrible than the one you remember from news clips.<br />4. If Moore is even close about the way wounded veterans of Dagger and Anaconda and the families of servicemen killed are being treated, our country should be ashamed.  I'm surprised that there has been no public outcry about the injustices sighted in pages 319-22.  Reviews of the book and comments picked up on the talk shows are like nobody has read that part.  America raised billions for the victims of the 9/11 attacks.  Is that spirit now dead?<br />Moore has written an inspiring, emotional account of our first battle in the War on Terrorism.  I only hope that eighteen months from now I'll be reviewing an author's equally inspiring account of success in the phase we seem about to enter in that War.	2003-03-18
US	52808271	R22UBF2ZS6LJM7	0743528255	177045780	The Vanished Man: A Lincoln Rhyme Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Penn and Killer?	Misdirection is a fundamental part of all of Deaver's Lincoln Rhyme stories.  Through forensic wizardry Rhyme and Sachs brilliantly zero in on the right line of investigation, pursue it, then inevitably get hit with a plot twist from left field.  So to build an entire story around a homicidal illusionist whose talents of misdirection are a central theme of the story kind of puts Deaver's plotting techniques out in the open for the reader to see.  It also enables him to weave a more complex web of head fakes and suspense filled surprises. <br />Though the acts of the Conjurer, his escapes, characters who come back from the dead and things you think happened that didn't are all totally outrageous, Rhyme is up against a criminal from whom we would expect no less.  The combination makes \\"The Vanished Man\\" work.	2003-03-16
US	52808271	RMX1L8P9Z7IPZ	0060082216	970529812	Unknown Man #89	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Twenty five years later it's still a great read	Written in the '70s, &quot;Unknown Man&quot; established a template that has endured into the new century: super cool male lead, troubled but likeable damsel in distress and a couple of black guys with baggage.  Jack Ryan, Detroit process server with a street smart, easy going manner that lets him rise above the ugliness of his business, is a character from whom Rayland Givens and Chili Palmer will naturally evolve.  <br />Jay Wilt, one of Jack's sleazier clients, hires him to find Robert Leary, Jr. with a last known Detroit address from 1941.  Robert is not at all what the early description suggests, and Jack is not the only one looking for him.  A hardened street dude named Virgil took the rap for a robbery he and &quot;Bobby&quot; committed, and he's determined to het his money or get even.<br />Along the way Jack finds Lee, a hopelessly drunk bar fly.  Jack is a recovering alcoholic who has slipped more than once.  When he reaches out to pull Lee out of the gutter, the darkness and reality of what they both are going through contrast with the otherwise too cool to be true plot, but it doesn't weigh the story down.  Lee cleans up just fine becoming Denise.  Jack is saving her, falling for her and either hiding her from or finding her for the man from New Orleans who wants to share Robert Leary's lost inheritance with her.<br />The story builds to a climax of unusual alliances, great street action and an Elmore Leonard good guy facing off with a bad guy who might be just as cool under pressure.  You won't guess the ending, you don't need to - but if you're an Elmore Leonard fan, you won't be surprised by it.	2003-03-15
US	52808271	R3KZSZVHN9CZ61	0743517911	518214282	The Dante Club	Books	5	4	6	N	N	O Ye Who Enter - get ready for a wonderful novel	The city of Boston is shocked and its police force stumped by the murder of two prominent citizens in 1865. Through forensic analysis and knowledge he shares with Henry Wadwsorth Longfellow and James Russell Lowell, two of the few Americans who have read Dante, Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes realizes the victims died in the macabre manner of sinners in \\"Inferno\\".<br />Incredibly, Matthew Pearl has crafted a novel that brings Dante to life along with three men who today are portraits hung on Harvard's walls and names on its buildings. In 1865 Holmes, Longfellow and Lowell were prominent members of the Harvard community at odds with Augustus Manning, the omnipotent head of the Harvard Corporation. As Pearl launches the three scholars on a mission to solve the bizarre chain of murders, their conversations portray a formality appropriate to the times and their stature, yet their manner and actions are more believable than what you'll read in a lot of modern crime fiction.<br />Pearl also uses his fiction to provide a quick primer on Dante's life and works. You might want to read his introduction to Longfellow's translation of \\"Inferno\\" (it's in the excerpt that appears on Amazon.com) to discover how Longfellow became preoccupied with Dante in the early 1860s. There really was a Dante Club, a group of friends who gathered at Longfellow's house most Wednesdays to read and critique a canto or two.<br />On top of this historical and literary backdrop, Pearl builds an intriguing plot that takes the scholars and his readers through all strata of post Civil War Boston and Cambridge. The end result is an exceptionally well-crafted mystery accompanied by an interesting peek into the lives of Dante, Longfellow and the academic elite of the late 19th century - an ambitious first novel that lives up to its promise.	2003-03-10
US	52808271	RKGTUA9GZGV04	1567404952	58250960	Rough Draft (Bookcassette)	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Play Misty in Margaritaville	To suggest that Hall's 'Rough Draft' is in a class with Elmore Leonard and Carl Hiaasen is like comparing Mickey Mouse to Ernest Hemingway.  None of the characters seem real, and a few would be better suited to a science fiction story.  Hal the antisocial homicidal maniac with almost supernatural powers to blend in and kill with his bare hands and Stevie the 11-year-old genius who can manipulate the FBI's computer system have no roots in reality.<br />To please an egomaniacal senator whose daughter Hal killed, super ambitious FBI agent Helen Shane sets up an elaborate scam to trap Hal using heroine Hannah Keller as bait.  The detestable Shane misses obvious opportunities to nail Hal while Hannah unrealistically gets sucked into the plan endangering her fragile son Randall along the way.  Agent Frank Sheffield, torn between Shane's directives and his feelings for Hannah, has enough backbone to challenge Helen and the senator but will straight out lie to Hannah when she starts to figure things out.<br />On top of an incredulous plot, Hall also builds in awkward gimmicks like the fact that Hannah's name and Frank's kayak are palindromes, which ties to the coded messages that Hannah's been getting.  When the character named Misty hijacked the boat named Margaritaville, it seemed an apt metaphor for the lack of symmetry to this story.	2003-03-02
US	52808271	R3TBQ6EK2UH8P	0446530557	863755985	The Kingmaker	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Wiseguy vs. Golden Boy	Brigadier General Thomas Morrison is not only arrogant and &quot;pathologically ambitious&quot;, he cheats on his wife Mary who is today's version of Grace Kelly.  Mary was also Sean Drummond's college lover and has a high level CIA job.  So when her jerk of a husband is accused of spying for the Russians, all evidence points to his guilt and Mary wants Drummond to defend him, it may not make sense but you know sparks will fly.<br />Drummond needs a Russian speaking co-counsel and finds Katrina Mazorski, the 29-year-old daughter of Chechen and Russian parents who is smart, stunning and still into body piercing.  Katrina and ex-sergeant Imelda Pepperfield, Sean's regular investigator, team up to provide the appropriate balance to Sean's incessant wiseguy banter.<br />Mary's father Homer Steele and political operator Milton Martin are both early candidates for Daddy Warbucks.  Martin is depicted as an Assistant Secretary of State in the years when Clinton was President but roomed with the future President as an undergraduate at Yale when George W. was there.  Go figure.  When General Jerk worked for Martin, he cultivated Alexi Arbatov, the #2 man in Russia's SIA, as a US resource.  Sean goes to Russia to chat with Arbatov and the action begins.<br />Sean and Katrina survive three professional assassination attempts, one where Sean takes out a knife-wielding killer with his Bic pen, which he calmly wipes off and puts back in his pocket.  Despite these ridiculous made for the movie scenes, Haig lets his readers poonder various ways the story might play out keeping good guys and bad jumbled together right to the end.  When the &quot;Kingmaker&quot; is ultimately found out, however, he decides to explain all to Sean in a sequence that's even more unrealistic than the action scenes.  In the final climax Sean gets beaten up a few more times, of course, but this time Haig actually comes up with a plot line that will shut his hero's smart mouth up for a while.<br />Sean Drummond is a great character and this is the third time Haig has build an entertaining action story around him.  The ending, however, was a little weak.  As every powerful and Machiavellian faction, good and bad, scrambles to cover its tracks, there's no reasonable way Sean Drummond should ever survive or resurface - except, of course, to be around for the 4th installment of Haig's series.	2003-02-25
US	52808271	R1ZVLR6S6T6X6P	0743527135	785313244	Fat Ollie's Book: A Novel of the 87th Precinct	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Ah yes, the rule of five - but not quite 5 stars	There's nothing likeable about Fat Ollie Weeks.  Hilarious, yes, but not likeable.  His eye and ear for the world around him produce well-crafted observations from those of your everyday equal opportunity bigot to his very special contempt for female crime writers and Amazon reviewers.  From police work to eating to casual conversation, Fat Ollie doesn't have a clue what a misfit he is.<br />Ollie has written a 36-page novel, complete with repetitious dialogue and grammatical redundancies.  The book's hero, actually heroine, is Olivia Wesley Watts a svelte, attractive redheaded detective who becomes trapped in a basement while on the trail of a gang trafficking in conflict diamonds.  Ollie pursues Emilio (Emmy) Herrera, an addicted transvestite prostitute who stole his prized manuscript.  At the same time Emmy is looking for Olivia, convinced she is real and the key to the biggest payday of his miserable life.<br />As multiple investigations unfold and McBain's fiction intersects with Ollie's, McBain decides to show us Fat Ollie's sensitive side.  Even though he prefers blondes and can't understand his attraction to a Puerto Rican, Ollie asks the sexy young Officer Patricia Gomez to go dancing.  Officer Gomez thinks Ollie eats to compensate for other pain in his life.  Incredibly, she seems to enjoy his company.  Fear not, Ollie has not lost his lecherous weakness for blondes, which will come back to bite him in a predictable but funny scene in a bar that Emmy is known to frequent. <br />All in all, \\"Fat Ollie's Book\\" is a very funny story  -  good, not great.  It gets an extra star from me because of Ron McLarty, narrator of the audiobook.  When McLarty is Fat Ollie, he sounds just as crass as you imagine the character to be.  When he's Detective Oliver Wendell Weeks reading his debut novel, McLarty projects the author's misplaced confidence in his nonsensical work in a perfect grade school monotone.	2003-02-14
US	52808271	RWUY1M8H9A6JY	0312313195	221999323	Sons of Fortune (Archer, Jeffrey)	Books	2	3	5	N	N	A Long Sad Slide from 'Kane and Abel'	Imagine a ridiculous separated at birth beginning, a bunch of coincidental stuff between preppies at Hotchkiss and Taft, young men totally out of place as youth in the late sixties and more anachronisms than any nitpicker could possibly count.  Now you can skip the first 200 pages.<br />After Taft Nick Cartwright, the birth parents' son, goes to UConn, becomes a hero in Viet Nam then a successful currency trader.  Fletcher Davenport, the silver spoon parents' son, goes to Yale, Yale Law and a big time NY law firm.  The story does generate a modicum of interest when both young men start families, hit some bumps in the road and find their second careers.  Nat becomes COO of a struggling bank owned by a family friend.  Fletcher follows in his father-in-law's footsteps to the Connecticut State Senate.  All the while Ralph Elliot, a totally despicable character who has connived to succeed at the expense of both Nat and Fletcher since prep school days, lurks in the background.  <br />Now a new plot twist as ridiculous as separated at birth:  Nat and Fletcher run against each other for governor.  This leads to a violent death, an improbable legal alliance and a ridiculous Perry Mason moment in a Connecticut Courtroom.  One more climactic incident triggers the inevitable search of birth records and DNA tests.  When the thrilling conclusion centers around a recount of the hand ballots in Madison CT, 10,000 registered voters average age 63, you get a pretty good idea how lame this story was.	2003-02-05
US	52808271	RXD4DODI34SLP	1586212737	851224138	Mortal Allies	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Another Sean Drummond Adventure	Katherine Carlson, a turbo charged attorney whose crusade is defending gays in the military, asks for her old law school rival JAG Major Sean Drummond as co-counsel on a high profile case that threatens the US alliance with South Korea.  Captain Thomas Whitehall, a seemingly straight arrow officer, was found in bed with the corpse of his young lover, the South Korean Defense Minister's son.  Whitehall is charged with rape and murder, and anti-American protests rock the Korean Peninsula.<br />As in 'Secret Sanction', Sean and his no nonsense investigator Imelda Peppercorn must work through a wall of brass obstacles to get at the truth.  This task is complicated by the belligerent and manipulative ways of lead counsel Katherine but helped by the CIA station chief who's actually a good guy, a rarity in this type of novel.  The Koreans have been running something a lot like Nelson DeMille's 'Charm School', and a local police chief is one of its graduates.  Sean gets beaten up and shot at a few too many times, but he comes up with the clues that the CIA need to conclude that the kid's murder was part of a North Korean plot to change the balance of power in the world.<br />The set up is tedious and the plot incredulous, but the action and final showdown make up for it.  John Rubinstein, a superb narrator of action adventure stories, really brings Sean Drummond to life and is a big part of what makes the audiobook version work.  I'm ready to move on to 'Kingmaker'.	2003-02-01
US	52808271	R2LCN78JIID1BN	0375421734	870198150	Scavenger Hunt: A novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Sugar High	Jimmy Gage is back from 'Flinch' still digging up dirt for SLAP magazine.  His boss Nino Napitano, a high powered guy who thrives on life at the fringes of propriety, stages a high profile scavenger hunt where the winning team must return with a major Oscar.  Jimmy, his hustling computer geek friend Rollo and the Monelli twins meet the challenge after connecting with Garrett Walsh, a flash in the pan director who won two Oscars seven years before.  Walsh now lives in a trailer, just out of prison after serving out his plea bargain deal for the rape / murder of fifteen-year-old Heather Grimm.<br />A more subtle connection to the title emerges as Ferrigno writes the rest of the story.  In his quest to find out what really happened to Garrett Walsh, Jimmy seems to be on a scavenger hunt of his own finding an array of fascinating bit part players, most only in the picture for one chapter.  Characters like:<br />     the Monelli twins: bimbos with brains, maybe;<BR>     the Butcher: a one-on-one basketball maniac;<BR>     Cheri: an aspiring actress who defines the outer limits of self-absorbion;<BR>     Trunk: an ex-vice cop dying of cancer who is perfectly out of place on a posh golf course;<BR>     the man in a wheelchair and Serena the maid whose lives center around a flea bag motel.<br />Just as he is a master at providing a pigeon's eye view of the undercarriage of life in Southern California, Ferrigno also creates tension that will jolt his reader to a new level of awareness.  Wait until you read the last three words of Chapter 19.  <br />Though I hated the ending, I love the way Ferrigno writes and still give 'Scavenger Hunt' a solid five stars.  Everything else more than made up for it.	2003-01-22
US	52808271	R19HA9USVMCW81	0671046942	222942872	The Arraignment	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Joe Mantegna is a great Paul Madriani	Paul Madriani's old buddy Nick Rush, a criminal lawyer who cleans up client messes at a prestigious San Diego law firm, asks him to talk with Gerald Metz a questionable character involved in something in Mexico.  Paul tells Nick he wants no part of Metz then Nick and Metz are gunned down on the steps of the San Diego courthouse.  They were there to appear at Metz's arraignment, the book's only connection to its title.<br />A hottie named Dana was Nick's trophy wife, but his firm's $2 million key man policy still has first wife Maggie's name on it.  A little legal maneuvering, supported by power broker Adam Tolt who has all kinds of devious motives for Paul to succeed, and Madriani negotiates a payoff where everyone comes out ahead.  Now the quest to find out what Nick was really up to begins in earnest.<br />To this point the plot was unfolding at a great pace and the dialogue crisp.  Tolt was pulling all kinds of strings and Madriani was scoring points despite the master manipulator.  But then the setting moves south of the border, and the story goes south as well.  Soon we have Madriani dodging magazines of automatic fire from an ultra light plane then tricking the pilot into an extraordinary mishap.  Herman a 300lb black bodyguard is also on hand for some super human feats, and a trail of bodies strings from California to Cancun.<br />The author gives you enough to suspect who the real bad guys are and ties all his extraneous characters into the finale, but the web that holds them is a real stretch and doesn't flow from the plot. Good, but not your best Martini.	2003-01-14
US	52808271	R1YHUOWMLII721	0786888083	61020260	Confessions of a Dangerous Mind: An Unauthorized Autobiography	Books	4	4	5	N	N	It can't be real, can it?	A guy creative enough to make the Dating Game and the Gong Show work and have six contorversial game shows going on the networks at once could certainly dream up the exciting second life of a CIA contract assassin.  As he traveled the world in his Hollywood role, maybe he even looked for mysterious deaths that happened where he was and wrote his story into the world around him.  Has anybody checked the dates and events he chronicles?<br />The book actually demonstrates part of why his TV shows worked.  Without the story of his secret life as an assassin, it would have been deadly boring.  Add something totally outrageous to the mix, and it not only holds your attention but provides a contrast to his Hollywood life that actually makes the story interesting.  The self-effacing account of his prolonged fifteen minutes as a TV sensation, which is probably on the mark, contrasted with his portrayal of a contract killer with a KGB contract on his head, makes for an entertaining, off the wall story.<br />It's also interesting that it took twenty years to get Barris's story on film.  A lot of it, like his high profile assignment in Paris, escape from the KGB and debriefing scene with Jim Byrd on a bench in Central Park, read like a screenplay.  We'll see how it plays out when the movie is released.	2003-01-13
US	52808271	RH3OVPPGD1JFI	0142800082	712732369	Hornet Flight	Books	2	6	7	N	N	Superboy meets Batgirl in Denmark	I've forgotten more about 'Eye of the Needle' than I remember, but that thriller built around Die Nedel and Lucy Rose the lonely wife on Storm Island towers above Follett's current tale that centers on an island radar station in occupied Denmark.<br />'Hornet Flight' features eighteen-year-old Harald Olufsen, his Jewish friend Tick, Tick's adventurous twin sister Karen and Harald's brother Arnie a grounded Danish pilot engaged to Hermia Mount.  Hermia is a British MI 6 analyst working with Digby Hoare, Churchill's assistant whose brother was shot down by the Luftwaffe.  Whatever of whoever Frea is, it's the key to the Germans' uncanny anticipation of RAF assaults.  Every member of the cast will have a role in unraveling the mystery with Peter Flemming, a detestable duty-conscious Danish policeman obsessed with pleasing the Nazi authorities, single minded in his determination to expose them all as spies.<br />Parts of the story are based on fact, and I do believe in the tremendous courage that very ordinary people must have shown when faced with Nazi occupation and sycophantic sympathizers.  In his effort to depict that, however, Follett creates a story that feels like an old movie serial leaving the audience hanging as the heroes face insurmountable obstacles at the end of every segment.  The escape scene in the Hornet Moth is laugh out loud ludicrous.  Then whiz kid Harald instantly figures out what the best British scientific and military minds never considered.  Enough!<br />When one part World War II adventure story and one part tale of unsung heroes get wrapped together in a series of comic book action scenes, even Follett's mastery with words can't save the day.	2002-12-31
US	52808271	R14OW69UU9U8MT	0060527811	15830272	When the Women Come Out to Dance: Stories	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A must for Elmore Leonard fans	Though tired plot thread weave through most of the nine stories (e.g. avenging abusive men, dumb redneck badguys and showdowns complete with deadlines to get out of town), the combination of familiar old characters cast in new settings and a few brand new heroes cut from similar cloth makes a great package.  A hilarious prequel to 'Tishomingo Blues' shows how Chickasaw Charlie Hoke got Billy Darwin to hire him as a greeter and side show for his new casino.  Raylan Givens the cowboy marshal from 'Pronto' is back now going after a bunch of neo Nazi skinheads including Boyd, an old high school buddy who worked in the Harlan County coal mines with him years before.  Raylan is as tough as Wyatt Earp's legend and as cool as Chili Palmer.  With a sexy lady named Ava in the middle Boyd tells Raylan he'll do to him what Raylan did to the Italian mob guy at the end of 'Pronto'.  Of course, Raylan's still standing at the end.<br />Karen Sisco's back and better than ever.  An arrogant FBI guy tells her the new boyfriend Carl she just got it on with has been robbing banks.  She doesn't want to believe it, but when Karen finds out what's going on Carl doesn't stand a chance.  George Clooney can play Carl in the movie, but this Karen is way too cool for J Lo.<BR> <BR>A black Spanish American War veteran named Bo Catlett is getting guff from a bigoted redneck whose brother was killed in the war.  I missed the connection to the character of the same name in 'Get Shorty', though there has to be one.  After a few historical corrections as to how good the RoughRiders really were, it builds to a showdown where Bo points his saber at the redneck inviting him to go for his gun.<br />On top of all this Leonard saves the best for last with the story of Ben Webster, fourth generation of family that owns an Oklahoma ranch.  Ben is an ex rodeo cowboy now Hollywood stuntman back in Oklahoma to check on things.  His senile caretaker leased part of the property to a life long criminal white trashfather and his two sons.  It sets up one final showdown with the Leonard hero, his new love interest and the dumber than dirt badguys.  Ther's nothing new about a Leonard bad guy going off a balcony or a stuntman diving off a roof into the hotel pool, but it still adds life to the story and evokes memories of prior Dutch classics.  I hope there's more of Ben Webster in Leonard's future.  <br />One word of caution about the audiobook:  Taye Diggs is absolutely the worst in a long line who have read Elmore Leonard books. He actually makes Chickasaw Charlie and Karen Sisco sound like black street dudes.	2002-12-21
US	52808271	RLTYA9WF2RFMQ	0066214122	245555180	Prey	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A book written to be a movie	It's 2009 and Jack Forman, software whiz at Media Tronics, is fired the day after he tells his lawyer about the corruption at the company.  Pretty much blackballed in Silicon Valley, Jack functions as a stay at home dad while his wife Julia pursues a high-powered career in venture capital working on the Xymos deal.  Xymos bills itself as the world leader in molecular manufacturing and is marketing its ability to create nanoparticles that can be injected into the bloodstream and project images of everything they pass through in the human body.  This is all in the first twenty-two pages.<br />For the next hunderd pages or so the story bogs down, weaving together the tension in Jack and Julia's marriage with a lot of scientific backdrop for the climax to come.  Then the action shifts to the Xymos plant in the Nevada desert where the nanoparticles are being produced.  Jack is brought out to fix some software that Media Tronics created for Xymos and discovers that the nanoparticles have taken on a life of their own.  From here on you can just imagine the special effects in the movie that will ultimately be made.  Jack goes from one impossible situation to the next in his effort to save the world from the evils of a scientific miracle gone awry.<br />Enjoy the action for what it is, but don't get too hung up on Crichton's message that advances in computer and biotechnology may converge to precipitate the end of the world.	2002-12-07
US	52808271	R3AFZ1L83EP12P	0060523794	577741355	Who Says Elephants Can't Dance?:  Inside IBM's Historic Turnaround	Books	4	13	17	N	N	What's next?	Not only can Lou Gerstner run a business, he also writes a credible, well-crafted account of what he did.  Despite many ex-IBM reviewers who despise him and a certain amount of ego that has to show through in a book like this, it feels like Lou had the analytic skills, strategic vision and ability to execute that made him the right guy at the right time for a very tough job.<br />That said, he lost some credibility with me in his chapter on &quot;The System&quot;.  Lou shows his distaste for government regulation then proposes an income tax revision that would tax away short term profits, a classic example of suggesting the system be micro managed with narrowly based regulation at a time when simplification and true reform are vital.  And in case you didn't pick up his contempt for investment bankers earlier, this is the chapter where he really lets them have it.  Ironically just after the book came out he signed on as the part-time Chairman of the Carlyle Group.<br />Which leads to the strongest impression the book left on me: Lou's true success will be measured by history that still has to be written.  Mr. Gerstner will now sit on top of a company that lives off of a military-industrial behemoth that's bigger than ever forty plus years after Ike warned us of it. If he can do big things to make that system work for the greater good, he'll be a hero of the 21st Century.  If, however, he is just renting out his Rolodex, &quot;Elephants&quot; could turn out to be another on the long list entitled, &quot;buy the book, short the author.&quot;	2002-12-03
US	52808271	RNPJ4MSRNIEIT	0316693006	910647309	Four Blind Mice (Alex Cross)	Books	5	1	3	N	Y	Alex Cross is back and better than ever	Sgt. Ellis Cooper is sentenced to death for the brutal murders of three women at Ft. Bragg.  We know up front that three middle aged psychopaths, Army Rangers trained as assassins in Viet Nam, were the killers, but why?  John Sampson calls on his lifelong friend Dr. Alex Cross to try and prove Cooper's innocence with only three weeks to go to the execution.  There's more than enough reason for objective observers to suspect a frame-up, but the authorities and military close ranks around the verdict.<br />Patterson accomplishes a lot in a short time.  With staccato-like chapters he keeps the suspense moving perfectly and still has time for Alex to develop a passionate cross country romance, for Sampson to fall for the widow of a convicted victim and to deal with the domestic crises of Nana Momma and Damon.  By Book III we suspect there's some serious evil behind the killers, but still not a clue as to who and why.<br />At one point I started to think the plot was maybe a little too gruesome, repetitive and unrealistic.  Then Patterson throws in two death row prisoners who have not been executed - Tran Van Lo a Vietnamese veteran of action in the An Lao Valley and Kyle Craig, an FBI agent turned murderer whom Alex nailed in a previous novel.  They figure to be part of the finale, but how?  Find out in Book V which is as suspenseful as anything Patterson has ever done.	2002-11-18
US	52808271	R3S5AYNTBDBETN	0375507345	366189909	No Way to Treat a First Lady	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Razor sharp wit	Despite dumping her fiancee for a Georgetown hunk who wanted to be President, riding roughshod on the White House staff, occasionally throwing things at her philandering husband and harboring serious political ambitions of her own, Elizabeth Tyler MacMann is a delightful, likeable character.  So is her former fiancee and big-time lawyer Boyce \\"Shameless\\" Baylor who is defending her of charges she \\"assassinated\\" her husband with a Paul Revere spittoon.  The other stereotypical defense guru Alan Crudman and assorted thinly veiled media-type characters are right-on.<br />Yes, reality is off the table, so don't get hung up on the conduct of the trial, Beth's sudden decision to testify, the subsequent reversal of fortunes and the fact that both sides are continually calling on the testimony of the other side's witnesses.  Enjoy how Buckley uses this preposterous backdrop to weave in a laugh out loud sequence of events lampooning just about everything inside the Beltway.  <br />In desperation \\"Shameless\\" pulls out all stops to get his client now lover off, and Felicio the Peruvian terrorist and Wiley P. Sinclair a widely despised Chinese spy on the run come in to set the stage for the finale.  Logical?  No way, but a whale of a lot of fun.	2002-11-13
US	52808271	R3QHAFKFQ9E31J	0553713981	521290095	The Murder Book (Alex Delaware, No. 16)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Milo's Story	A book of old crime scene photos is delivered to Dr. Alex Delaware.  He shows it to his good friend Milo Sturgis who freaks when he sees page 43, photos from an unsolved homicide he worked as a rookie.  Flashbacks to Milo's early life:  grew up in Gary, masters from Indiana U., stint as a medic in Nam, discovers his homosewuality and struggles as an LAPD rookie.  He becomes a savvy, tenacious cop who knows when something is out of whack and digs to find out why, but he'll always live outside of the in crowd enduring their subtle slurs.  Kellerman is at his best when he finds the words that reflect Milo's perceptive eye and hardened attitude as he describes the array of characters he's up against.<br />As a rookie cop Milo was partnered with Pierce Schwinn, a hard-core reprobate but solid detective.  When the mutilated body of Janie Ingalls was discovered twenty years before, Milo started probing into a kids party at a mansion in Bel Air and got hauled in by two arrogant IAD guys, one of whom was John G. Broussard now the despised Chief of Police.  Pierce abruptly retired, Milo was transferred to West LA and the Ingalls case was never pursued.<br />Alex and Milo pursue the cold case, and the plot gets more than a little convoluted.  It's a real stretch to find so many people who have perfect recall of twenty-year-old events when confronted by Milo and/or Alex.  At one point Milo tails a guy who hassled him earlier and discovers its Craig Bosc, a fast track LAPD detective who now works for Chief Broussard.  Their confrontation literally made me think I was listening to a Harry Bosch story for a while.<br />While you know the two different paths Milo and Alex are following will ultimately converge, the way they connect is beyond plausibility.  Ironically, their efforts to solve the Ingalls case uncovers or precipitates a dozen or more deaths, none of which are investigated as homicides.  Despite a few \\"turn off your brain\\" plot twists, \\"The Murder Book\\" was fast paced,well written and superbly delivered by audiobook reader John Rubenstein.	2002-11-09
US	52808271	R1U4NB083IYPF8	0399149279	26396039	Wild Pitch	Books	5	7	14	N	N	Home Run	&quot;Wild Pitch&quot; is definitely Lupica's best sports novel.  It starts a little slowly, but when Showtime Charlie Stoddard the 40-year-old comeback kid finally gets his start with the Red Sox, the story kicks into high gear.<br />A whole array of colorful characters project Lupica's view of the game and those around it.  Mo Jiggy, the gangsta rapper from &quot;Bump and Run&quot; who became a big time agent in &quot;Full Court Press&quot;, is back for a cameo.  The main voice of irreverence, however belongs to Pooty Shaw, the hard hitting catcher whose baseball millions have attracted an endless string of beautiful girlfriends with attitude.  We also get to meet Booker Impala Washington, the limo driver who's really the brains behind the new Red Sox owner.  The main story revolves around Charlie and his inscrutable trainer Chang, which will remind you a lot of Kevin Costner and Cheech Marin in &quot;Tin Cup&quot;.  As it builds to a close, you will realize that there's not enough time for a real sappy storybook ending.  Lupica finds the perfect touch to wrap it up.<br />There are a few bumps along the way.  Lupica seems to insert a brand name on every other page giving you the feeling that you're watching those rotating ads in the ballpark, spinning at warp speed.  There's a little too much baseball trivia, like three solid pages on the history of the left field wall at Fenway.  The references to Elaine's and T.J. Tucker's make it read like a Dan Jenkins knock off at times, and the word games around the Grace MacKenzie character - Amazing Grace, goodnight Gracie, Grace under pressure - are a little too cutsie.<br />All in though, it was a five star read.	2002-11-03
US	52808271	R3C2MRQHJ9FXQV	0525946772	212630214	Who's Sorry Now: The True Story of a Stand-up Guy	Books	2	7	18	N	N	We are Joey ... sorry we bought the hype	I was lured by the bait of his Ralphie persona, the Imus interview and a good excerpt on Amazon, but the life of an insecure little fat kid is not charming.  Mommy was a gangster's daughter who browbeat her poor husband and was ready to cheat anyone including her young son.  Some of the \\"Cousin\\" Florie stories were ok, like hijacking the Seagram's truck from the Hoboken ferry, but a book?  Fuggedaboutit!	2002-10-30
US	52808271	R2855RLWB66I3T	1586214489	77432495	Chasing the Dime	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Henry the whiz kid, not Harry the cop - but classic Connelly	Henry Pierce, a genius who may have just invented a molecular computer, moves into a new pad and discovers his new phone belonged to Lilly, a sexy brunette who advertised it on a web site.  Lilly's rent, pager and PO Box are paid up but her phone isn't, and it was recycled to a new user in less than three months.  Has Connelly completely abandoned his attention to detail, or is Henry being set up?  If so, how and by whom?<br />Henry's sister was a hooker killed more than a decade before by the Dollmaker, a homicidal character in two early Harry Bosch novels.  That leaves Henry with a compulsive need to find out what happened to Lilly.  Though his actions are not those of a rational, intelligent man, Connelly presents the bizarre events that follow in a way that both holds your attention and makes you eager to see where he's going next.  Detective Renner knows he's not getting the whole truth from Henry who, through a combination of his own missteps and other evidence that points his way, has become the number one suspect in Lilly's disappearance.  Cody Zeller, a white hat hacker and buddy from Stanford, joins in to sniff out whatever information he can.  When Henry follows that trail, he winds up in the clutches of a nasty porn promoter who travels with his silent enforcer, appropriately named six-eight.  <br />Before his world completely crashes, Henry applies his super logical mind to cut through it all, setting up an exciting finish.  It's different from a Harry Bosch book, for sure, and still a first rate story by Michael Connelly.	2002-10-21
US	52808271	R256GAUQA6P1AT	0743526376	753507601	December 6: A Novel	Books	5	18	21	N	N	Great story!  One of this year's best novels.	The story is set in Tokyo on December 6, 1941.  Harry Niles owns the Happy Paris saloon in the Asakusa district, a nightless city where sheltered libidos roam unfettered.  Harry learned to adapt early in life growing up as the gaifin son of American missionaries in post WWI Japan.  In flashbacks we see how much Harry will take and improvise to avoid submitting when his boyhood \\"friends\\" make him the target of their samurai games.  <br />The same friends are in his life on December 6th\\": Hajimai, a soldier about to ship out and Gen, an aide to Admiral Yamomoto who recognizes and uses the talents of Harry the businessman.  They are hooked up with Col. Ishigami, a sadistic veteran of the rape of Nanking who is particularly good at beheading people with his saber.<br />While trying to wrap things up over the weekend and make the Monday morning clipper flight to Hong Kong, Harry will confirm his suspicions that Pearl Harbor is to be attacked.  Again through flashbacks we learn how powerbrokers on both sides of the coming conflict know Harry and why he knows things they would like to know.  His relationship with Michiko, the part Communist part geisha \\"Record Girl\\" who tends the Happy Paris jukebox, and efforts to stay out from under Ishigami's sword are part of a pace that keeps you excited and surprised by what happens next.<br />The ending is jst plain phenomenal.  Smith puts his hero in a box he'll never get out of.  Then ...  I'll say no more except that you'll want to experience the finale for yourself.<br />P.S.  Smith has created his best ever character in Harry Niles, and John Slattery (narrator of the audiobook) captures Harry's personality perfectly with a comfortable, believable delivery of the con man's lines combined with unobtrusive yet distinct voices and accents that set Harry apart from the rest of the cast.  I hope there's a movie and Slattery gets the part.	2002-10-14
US	52808271	R4M8OFHYO7NIR	1590072715	148574901	Shrink Rap	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Great characters, tired template	I sat across the table from my alter ego, pen in hand ready to write a review of \\"Shrink Rap\\".  <br />\\"I'm afraid Parker's losing it,\\" I said.<br />\\"Don't you like Sunny Randall?\\" he said.<br />\\"Sunny's great,\\" I said.  <br />\\"Then what?\\" he said.<br />\\"His books are all the same,\\" I said.  Plot, pace, dialogue - just plug in Spenser, Jesse Stone or Sunny, add a dog and a murder or two.\\"<br />\\"Richie's a great character,\\" he said.  <br />\\"Yeah, and so are Susan and Hawk,\\" I said. \\"He's the two of them rolled together.  You know, the steadying love interest from a different background and the 'I'll take care of it, just don't ask how' guy all in one.\\"<br />\\"I think the gay friend Spike is more like Hawk,\\" he said.<br />\\"Wait a minute.  Isn't Spike the dog and Milo the gay friend?\\" I said.<br />\\"Different writer.  He comes out next month,\\" he said.<br />\\"Oh yeah,\\" I said.  \\"All in all I guess \\"Shrink Rap\\" was a pretty good story.\\"	2002-09-29
US	52808271	R167DKLM0XWN3L	0743520955	124087136	From A Buick 8: A Novel	Books	4	18	21	N	N	A volatile ride in a garaged car	Stephen King is a great storyteller.  When he creates a character like Ned Wilcox, you can feel the depth of pain and emotion in a teenager trying to cope with the sudden loss of his father.  Then he uses the same extraordinary writing talent to present us with a 1954 Buick Roadmaster that's not a car but a machine from another dimension.  You know it can't be real, but when the three state cops from Troop D start to dissect the bat-like think that comes out of the Buick's trunk, your stomach muscles will tighten as if it was actually happening.<br />King also evokes great memories for a child of the 50s.  A dog named Mister Dillon, the old sarge named Shoendienst, Arkey the big Swede who sounds just like Lawrence Welk and the Buick 8 itself take you right back to the Eisenhower era even though the story starts in 1979.  When Brian the low life torments his arresting officer with an insult from their high school days, the chant of &quot;Fat Eddie Jack You Boys&quot; will stick in your head for days.<br />In contrast to &quot;Hearts in Atlantis&quot;, however, the Buick 8 isn't quite as interesting as the 50s non-cars that came for Ted Brautigan.  This story spends a lot more time on the car than the lives of those affected by it, slowing it down a bit in the middle.  When Sandy Dearborn, &quot;the new sarge&quot;, is sitting in an old diner, looking at the countertop jukebox selector and listening to obscure rock 'n roll tunes like Johnny Ace's &quot;Pledging My Love&quot;, he tells us that &quot;life in Statler PA bears Christly little resemblance to the Hallmark Hall of Fame.&quot;  Right, but did we need the supernatural Buick parked in Shed B for twenty-two years to reach that conclusion?  Probably not, but King still makes you glad you came along for the ride.	2002-09-24
US	52808271	R15UOKNXTR1SPA	0805426361	972512365	Mission Compromised (International Intrigue Trilogy #1)	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Mission Ridiculous	Ten days before the Iran Contra scandal broke in late 1986, an investment banker in Paris, a businessman in Portugal and a priest in Poland are all assassinated in professional hits made to look like accidents. Each worked for and ex-CIA guy named Goode. Eight years later, fourteen months after the disaster in Mogadishu, Marine Maj. Peter Newman is made Special Projects Officer for the White House National Security Council, a job vacant since Oliver North was forced to resign it. The turbo arrogant NSC head, nicknamed Java the Hut, tells Peter his assignment will be to avenge the deaths in Somalia, one of which was Peter's younger brother.<br />To this point I thought this was shaping up to be an exciting, credible action thriller. Wrong!<br />-The plot premise is off the wall with the UN sanctioning an international assassination team to take out the elite of international terrorists, the US providing leaders for the team and allowing them to report to an ex KGB heavyweight who now happens to be the #2 guy at the UN.<br />-North self-servingly writes himself into the story as hero and role model for Peter who remids us how unfair it was that Ollie took the rap for a critical assignment he had orders to carry out.<br />-The thread of one dimensional religious conviction from all the good characters who surround Peter is insulting. Even the Iraqi who helps Peter get out after his mission goes bad is a sixth generation Christian with a message from God that brought him to the rescue.<br />-The bad guys are as powerful and as sinister as you can imagine, way over the top.<br />When Peter's mission to take out Saddam and Osama is compromised, some pretty good action and intrigue follows. When North uses the story as a platform to deliver his religious and moral message, it fails.	2002-09-02
US	52808271	R3DFOT933RFM99	0743504623	840593809	Fatal Voyage	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Bet on the Dog	Billed as a forensic investigator like Kay Scarpetta, Temperance Brennan is more like a Lisa Scottoline attorney running her own naive and amateurish investigations, being stifled unfairly at every turn before the ultimate \\"Eureka!!\\"  A plane goes down over the North Carolina Smokey Mountains killing 80 or more, most of whom are young college students.  After the preliminary forensic stuff, the reader is led to ponder three possibilities:<br /> -a bomb by people trying to take out a mob witness on the plane;<br /> -a switch by the mobster and his guard whose bodies have not been found;<br /> -a missile fired by a religious fanatic or some right wing groups that populate the hills.<br />Tempe also discovers a bone that doesn't appear to be from a crash victim and some heavy-duty people are trying to discredit her and throw her off the case.  Many convenient plot setters are pretty lame, like Tempe dropping in on Peter from whom she's been separated two years, getting it on with him then agreeing to dog sit the mutt he's taken in.  The mutt turns out to be a bone sniffing champ.  And the way Reichs abandons the original plot to get to the ultimate one is almost offensive, but I must admit she held my attention trying to figure out where she would ultimately take the story.<br />In the end, however, it was a let down.  So much more could have been done to run down the cult Tempe uncovered, but instead Reichs created an absurd capture and escape sequence to provide the climax.  Too bad, it started out better than that.	2002-08-28
US	52808271	R1MQ4M4SW6M7IG	0553713094	17508097	Red Rabbit (Tom Clancy)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	A Gentleman's "C"	My rule of thumb is to buy the audio version of any of the recent genre of Clancy novel, abridged if it's more than 500 pages.  The typos and most of the technobabble get edited out, and there's usually a good story underneath.  This one gets a passing grade, barely.  <br />We all remember the Pope was shot in the early 80s, recovered, and knew that Bulgarians were involved, maybe with the support of the Russians.  Clancy takes those facts and elaborates freely on them with most of his old storytelling grace.  Who knows, maybe most of it is true!<br />In the end there are a few things to beware of:<br />   -the audiobook editor cuts out a lot of noise, but seems in love with the phrase \\"get out of Dodge\\" which appears at least four times, once by train;<br />   -the narrator does a lousy job with accents and has virtually no tonal changes, so it's kind of bland following the dialogue and almost painful listening to the Russian characters;<br />   -Tom's political and religious views come through loud and clear with Soviet life all bad and the American way all good, but you've gotta love Jack Ryan anyway;<br />   -the ending is like walking out a door, trying to go back because you forgot something the finding it was locked and bolted as soon as you shut it.<br />It was no \\"Hunt for Red October\\" but one of many lesser ships that seems to have thrived in its wake.	2002-08-26
US	52808271	R3INQ9LDKJRNHD	0743200705	357272213	Bud, Sweat, And Tees: Hootie, Martha, and the Masters of the Universe	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Dead Solid Perfect, in Real Life	If this story had been a successful novel, the sequel might be about Rich Beem holding off Tiger Woods to win the 2002 PGA.  Ironically, that scenario, one a novelist would have to stretch to create, provide the catalyst that's got everyone buing this book.  Be glad it happened and join the crowd!<br />The true story of Beem and Caddie Steve Duplantis is better than any sports novel I've ever read.  I particularly enjoyed the 36 page chapter in the middle of the book describing Beem's rookie win in the '99 Kemper Open and the role Duplantis played on the final day.  Shipnuck makes you feel the same butteflies and tension Rich must have felt, Pepto Bismol or no. <br />Both pro and caddie are immature, insecure and more compulsive than dedicated.  When you hear about the influence Beem's father had on him then hear his Dad whine about the ingratitude and shortcomings of his son, you will certainly understand some of the baggage Rich carries and respect his accomplishments if not the road he took to get there.  It's not surprising that John Daly befriended Beem in his rookie year and will be interesting to see how similar or different their careers turn out to be.	2002-08-26
US	52808271	R2HGLCWLZ3HMJG	1572700548	823148053	Some Buried Caesar	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Wolfe Stands the Test of Time	I'm not sure I'd tale the time to sit down to read Stout's old classics, but Michael Prichard's audiobook narration captures both Archie Goodwin and his rotund boss in a way that makes a long summer car trip seem a lot shorter.  Tom Pratt, who owns a bunch of fast food restaurants circa 1938, buys Hickory Caesar Grindon, a champion sire of prized Guernsey cows, for $45,000.  The Osgoods, Fred and his children Clyde and Nancy, old money riding out the Great Depression on thousands of family owned acres around Crowfield, NY, want to stop the sale to Pratt who intends to barbecue Caesar.  Pratt's niece Carolyn tells Archie of a vamp named Lily Rowan, who destroyed Clyde Osgood and has her brother Jimmy in mind for her next conquest.  Lily, a precocious presumably promiscuous fixture in future stories, is fascinated by Archie, her \\"Escamillo\\" whom she is meeting for the first time.<br />Clyde is found dead in the pasture with Hickory Caesar standing over him.  Wolfe's only there because Archie ran his car into a ditch on the way to an orchid exposition, but he decides to stay on to prove the bull didn't kill Clyde.  He finds a letter telling of a debt owed to Bronson, a mysterious man of questionable character who came to Crowfield with Clyde.  The next day Bronson is found dead in a barn stall with a pitchfork through his chest, a stall Archie was in the day before.<br />Police Captain Barrow believes Archie is holding out, which he is, arrests him as a material witness to murder and throws him in the county jail.  A fun sidebar develops when Archie meets Basil, a con man who's mastered a game with three spoons and a pea.  Basil shows Archie how to get things done in the lockup, and within a day Archie is organizing the inmates in the Crowfield County Prisoner's Union.<br />Wolfe appears in DA Waddell's office in his \\"customary unhurried waddle\\" and browbeats him to release Archie with the notion that he needs him to solve the crimes the DA and Capt. Barrow cannot.  They do, of course, and the solution seems so obvious once Wolfe ties together all the facts he saw that others missed.  Isn't that what Nero Wolfe is all about?	2002-08-12
US	52808271	R2KBIE70MDNKWV	0743504801	995472619	Bitterroot	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Misfits Portrayed in Elegant Prose	Burke's eye sees details few of us would ever notice, and he finds words that will make you feel that you're looking at a photograph of what he just saw.  His characters come to life shaped by descriptions that are both sharp and flowing and always on the mark.  I still like the Dave Robicheaux stories better (not wild about Billy Bob Holland in \\"Heartwood\\"), but \\"Bitterroot\\" proves that Burke can build a winner around either character.<br />Burke develops more than a dozen characters well enough for his audience to feel what each is about.  While the characters themselves seem real, their collective baggage and violent tendencies do take the story down a peg.  Think about how the following characters might interact in a story, then discover how Burke weaves their lives together when they converge in the Bitterroot Valley:<br />Billy Bob Holland, lawyer from Deaf Smith, Texas now in Montana to help his friend Doc Voss.  Billy Bob frequently talks with the ghost of L.Q. Navarro, the partner he accidentally killed when they were both Texas Rangers, L.Q.'s voice often warning him of peril ahead.  Son Lucas and investigator Temple Carroll from prior novels show up about halfway through this one.<br />Doc Voss, a quiet, brainy boy from Deaf Smith who was a Navy Seal in Nam and is now a single father in Montana with strong environmentalist beliefs.<br />Lamar Ellison, an ex-con scum of the earth biker who's working undercover for the ATF.<br />Wyatt Dixon, a psycho rodeo clown just out of prison who's not afraid of anything.<br />Terry Witherspoon, a kid from NC who's great with a knife, was Wyatt's punk in prison and is still under his spell.<br />Carl Hinkle, a white supremacist who supports and manipulates Ellison, Dixon and the like.<br />Some ATF and FBI types looking for a group behind Oklahoma City whom they will nail at any cost.<br />Sue Lynn Big Medicine, the Indian girl with a dark past who is being squeezed by the ATF on an overblown robbery charge.<br />CleoLonnigan, cold hearted sharpshooting widow of an investment guy who was working with the mob and got their son killed.<br />Nicki Molinari, the Arizona mob guy with a branch in Montana who loves baseball and peppers his victims with balls from his pitching machine rather than break their legs with a bat.<br />Xavier Girard the big time author writing a book about Nicki and his actress wife Holly who grew up with Nicki and is still openly intimate with him.<br />Finally Sheriff J.T. Cain, who is often hostile to Billy Bob and Doc but may be the only other fair-minded man in the Valley.<br />Net, net - I love the way Burke writes and the characters he creates, but there's just a little too much evil and depravity in the plot to give it 5 stars.	2002-08-06
US	52808271	R1WVT4EVZBAWPC	0743504801	995472619	Bitterroot	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Misfits Portrayed in Elegant Prose	Burke's eye sees details few of us would ever notice, and he finds words that will make you feel that you're looking at a photograph of what he just saw.  His characters come to life shaped by descriptions that are both sharp and flowing and always on the mark.  I still like the Dave Robicheaux stories better (not wild about Billy Bob Holland in \\"Heartwood\\"), but \\"Bitterroot\\" proves that Burke can build a winner around either character.<br />Burke develops more than a dozen characters well enough for his audience to feel what each is about.  While the characters themselves seem real, their collective baggage and violent tendencies do take the story down a peg.  Think about how the following characters might interact in a story, then discover how Burke weaves their lives together when they converge in the Bitterroot Valley:<br />Billy Bob Holland, lawyer from Deaf Smith, Texas now in Montana to help his friend Doc Voss.  Billy Bob frequently talks with the ghost of L.Q. Navarro, the partner he accidentally killed when they were both Texas Rangers, L.Q.'s voice often warning him of peril ahead.  Son Lucas and investigator Temple Carroll from prior novels show up about halfway through this one.<br />Doc Voss, a quiet, brainy boy from Deaf Smith who was a Navy Seal in Nam and is now a single father in Montana with strong environmentalist beliefs.<br />Lamar Ellison, an ex-con scum of the earth biker who's working undercover for the ATF.<br />Wyatt Dixon, a psycho rodeo clown just out of prison who's not afraid of anything.<br />Terry Witherspoon, a kid from NC who's great with a knife, was Wyatt's punk in prison and is still under his spell.<br />Carl Hinkle, a white supremacist who supports and manipulates Ellison, Dixon and the like.<br />Some ATF and FBI types looking for a group behind Oklahoma City whom they will nail at any cost.<br />Sue Lynn Big Medicine, the Indian girl with a dark past who is being squeezed by the ATF on an overblown robbery charge.<br />CleoLonnigan, cold hearted sharpshooting widow of an investment guy who was working with the mob and got himself and their son killed.<br />Nicki Molinari, the Arizona mob guy with a branch in Montana who loves baseball and peppers his victims with balls from his pitching machine rather than break their legs with a bat.<br />Xavier Girard the big time author writing a book about Nicki; Girard's actress wife Holly who grew up with Nicki and is still openly intimate with him.<br />Finally Sheriff J.T. Cain, who is often hostile to Billy Bob and Doc but may be the only other fair-minded man in the Valley.<br />Net, net - I love the way Burke writes and the characters he creates, but there's just a little too much evil and depravity in the plot to give it 5 stars.	2002-08-06
US	52808271	R12EUW9WNFFQ4C	0553713035	930294466	Sunset in St. Tropez (Danielle Steel)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A Fifty-something Fairy Tale	\\"Sunset\\" is a pre-senior rite of passage written with a pre-teen sophistication.  The language is fuzzy was he (he was, she was, it was dominating the sentence structure) and the narrative plodding with scenes being continually rehashed as every character has to hear about just about everything that happens.  Very sober problems of death, infidelity, illness and life's other crises and surprises are crammed into a two-week trip to France.  In the audiobook it took three tapes to get to the guts of the story where two catty wives totally misjudge widower Robert's movie star guest.  He, a sophisticted 63-year-old judge by day, is of course way too naive to see what's going on around him.<br />It's not the worst 2002 summer novel, \\"The Beach House\\" and \\"The Mighty Johns\\" make it look good, but hardly worth the time or money.	2002-07-25
US	52808271	R172R1PPBB4OSX	1590072316	951423128	The Mighty Johns: A Novella by David Baldacci and Other Stories by Superstar Authors	Books	1	2	2	N	N	Pass	This must be the summer of the spaced out best selling author. First there was \\"The Beach House\\", James Patterson's preposterous tale of vigilante justice against a super rich sleaze-ball. Then we get Baldacci's even more absurd story about brainy college jock Tor North looking in a maze of tunnels beneath the college stadium for a legendary running back who disappeared 40 years before. The premise, the investigtion and particularly the conclusion are ..., sorry I'm lost for the adjective that expresses the inanity of this story.<br />Two follow on short stories, one a morality play about a murder and a soccer game that took place at the outset of WWI and the second by Brad Meltzer that draws on the classic MIT pranks at Harvard-Yale games, were actually pretty good. WARNING! The unabridged audiobook captures every word of Baldacci's ridiculous novella but omits the stories by the likes of Lehane and Lupica that I gather were part of the book. Don't expect them if you try the audio version.	2002-07-25
US	52808271	R34J10M6NQP6M6	0787121614	56919881	The Phantom of Manhattan	Books	4	6	10	N	N	The Audiobook Version Works	Forsyth, supposedly with Andrew Lloyd-Webber's collaboration, imagines what would have happened if the Phantom of the Opera escaped to New York in the late 1800s becomming rich and powerful.  A deathbed letter from Antoinette Giry, the woman who sprung a sixteen-year-old Erik Mullheim from a freak show and sheltered him in the Paris Opera House, reveals that he sired a son in his one night with Christine Daae, now one of two top divas in Europe.<br />Christine comes to New York in 1906 to open the new Manhattan Opera House secretly bankrolled by Erik.  Fast forward to 1940 when a reporter who became part of the story in 1906 is now telling a Columbia Journalism School class what happened and how it ended setting up a corny but well delivered finale.<br />Note the sharp contrast between the handful of Amazon reviews of the audio version vs. the close to 100 reviews that panned the book.  The use of a dozen professional narrators, many once well known actors, adds considerable energy to the different segments of the story and made the audiobook work.  When I saw it on a [stores] discount table, I had no idea what I was buying.  It definitely was worth the shot.	2002-07-10
US	52808271	R2UFJ6NZLSSETN	1590070879	689113993	The Company: A Novel of the CIA 1951-91 (New Millennium Audio)	Books	3	14	16	N	N	Action ficton or the CIA exposed?	Is it a spy thriller or a veiled history of the CIA mixing real players with substitute and made up characters?  Littell should have picked one or the other and cut the book in half.<br />In the fiction story three Yale roommates go into the intelligence service in 1950.  Jack McAuliffe and his pal Leo Kritzky go to the CIA while Yevgeny Alexandrovich Tspin, son of a Russian undersecretary to the UN, is pulled into the KGB.  Unfortunately, these characters are merely painted into scenes from the Cold War.  The substance it would take to make them believable is missing from Littell's journey through four decades of espionage.<br />As for the expose, the controversial James Jesus Angleton is squarely in the author's crosshairs.  If you don't know much about him (I didn't), do a Google search and read a couple of articles to set the scene.  The details of Littell's fictional narrative are drawn from similar facts reshuffled enough to satisfy the publisher's lawyers.  Even more interesting is the hard-drinking character of the Sorcerer, Harvey Toritti.  Like the real William Harvey, he was a holdover from the OSS and the Agency's chief in Berlin in the early 50s.  He also told Angleton that Philby was a spy long before he accepted it, was called America's James Bond by JFK and was the link to hitman Johnny Roselli and the Chicago Mob.  Angleton manipulates and bumbles while Toritti swaggers through crisis after crisis until they're put out to pasture in the early 70s.  The question is what's real and what isn't?<br />Thirty-plus years and hundreds of pages later the three Yale roomies retake center stage.  The final act runs from the early 80s through '91 and the fall of Gorbachov.  Jack cals on his long retired mentor Toritti who stirs up an improbable series of events to stop the coup they know is coming.  It happens, of course, with Littell using this part of his saga to float the notion that Putin grew out of the dark unofficial operations that drew together CIA, KGB, Mossad and some well financed free lancers.<br />Littell did succeed in arousing enough of my curiosity to go back and review some of the history he touched on and some that he didn't. I doubt if I'll dig too deep into it, however.  &quot;The Company&quot; pretty much wore me out.	2002-07-10
US	52808271	RVM28FTFS21R7	0316969680	540414996	The Beach House	Books	1	1	2	N	N	Who's impersonating James Patterson?	It starts at a great pace with Peter \\"Rabbit\\" Mullen on his trendy new motorcycle on the way to the party of all parties at a $45 million Hamptons beach house.  A brisk first person narrative captures Peter's free spirit and the opulence that surrounds him.  He's not a guest but a valet parker who gets a perfumed note proposing a secret beach rendezvous.  Peter describes his rush of anticipation then how he's ambushed and beaten to death.<br />From here it goes straight downhill.  Older brother Jack, a Columbia Law student interning at a big time NY law firm, becomes the new narrator.  A mixture of conspiracy, intimidation and cover up culminates when Peter's death is declared a drowning at an unlikely public inquest.<br />From time to time the authors awkwardly interrupt Jack's narrative to introduce scenes he could not be part of.  First we get the Fixer, an intimidator / hitman hired to scare off anyone who thinks Peter's death was murder.  Then the Fixer gets to Sammy the gay hairdresser, and a window on the darker side of Peter's life opens up.<br />Patterson's moral is that the system is corrupt and evil but vigilante justice is good.  Jack and his friends swing into action with a totally absurd plan to bring the murderers to justice.  <br />Stick with Alex Cross or the Number Books, but forget this airheaded nonsense!	2002-07-09
US	52808271	RXH2PE8LAZ8QM	0694523488	657088689	The Wailing Wind	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Leaphorn and Chee wear well	In a Hillerman novel the Navajo embody a serene kind of patience where people never interrupt, hear everything that is said and wait as long as it takes for the whole story to be told.  They accept as proven facts religious teachings and traditions that outsiders might consider frivolous superstitions.  Add in a Tribal Police Force that combines dedication, logic and training with these deep rooted principles, and you get a group of investigators who always get to the bottom of things, usually making task oriented modern counterparts like the FBI look pompous and ineffective along the way. <br />Officer Bernadette Manuelito discovers a body in an abandoned pickup truck, and there's probably a connection to a five-year-old homicide and the search for a lost gold mine.  Sgt. Jim Chee, whom Bernie sees as friend, potential boyfriend and arrogant boss all at the same time, wants to shield her from embarrassment when she mishandles a piece of evidence at the crime scene.  Chee's old boss, the \\"legendary\\" retired Lt. Joe Leaphorn who's always hanging around when something happens, solves that problem and begins his own investigation of the interlocking mysteries.<br />Hillerman's characters grow naturally from story to story.  Watch the relationship between Bernie and Chee evolve and see how Leaphorn faces the realities of retirement but is still sharp enough to earn most of the respect he formerly commanded.  As always Hillerman maintains a consistent pace throughout.  His craftsmanship and George Guidall's expert reading of the audiobook comfortably bring the audience in sync with the tempo and direction of the Navajo investigators.<br />When the puzzle finally is solved, we realize that all the pieces were on the table from the beginning.  The picture that emerges, however, like the characters that put it together, incorporates subtleties we didn't expect to see.  A more logical response to a wailing wind five years earlier, for example, would have prevented a tragic and unnecessary death, and we never will know what the old shaman James Peshlakai said, did or did not do.<br />This is my fourth Hillerman novel.  While I've enjoyed them all, I would call \\"The Wailing Wind\\" the most satisfying.	2002-06-06
US	52808271	R2EQXFDYC1BWUR	0399148639	786303546	Mortal Prey	Books	5	23	24	N	N	The best in a long line of Prey	At the end of \\"Certain Prey\\" three years ago, Clara Rinker took a shot at Lucas Davenport, missed and called him on the phone to chat about it.  You knew then there'd be a sequel, and it's as good as the first - even better.<br />\\"Mortal Prey\\" begins in Cancun when sniper Izzy Cohen fires at Clara killing her lover Paulo Mejia and their unborn child, wounding her.  Determined to settle the score, Clara takes off before Paulo's powerful family finds out she was the real target and the St. Louis mob realizes she's still alive.  Her hit list includes four \\"businessmen\\" led by Nanny Dichter, pioneer of the St. Louis cocaine business, and John Ross who got Clara started as a contract killer and is still one nasty guy.  The first hit comes quickly with a lot of little arrows that will point to Clara when the cops, the Feds and Ross start following them, but she'll always be a step or two ahead.<br />The FBI is holding her younger brother Gene on a trumped up drug charge, so Clara calls Lucas to lay down the ground rules.  The lively if unrealistic banter between maverick lawman and outlaw sets the tone for the chase to come.  Ten pages later Sandford repeats the conversation as Davenport heard it, capturing the gut level connection between them while their two minds work at warp speed toward opposite ends.<br />There's a steady flow of great action with Lucas and his unofficial partner ex-cop Mickey Andreno working the streets and Agents Mallard, Malone and the rest of the FBI providing high tech back up and firepower.  Through page 350 the story follows a somewhat structured outline, moving from one showdown to the next.  Then Sandford gives us three quick closing chapters.  He provides a sufficient degree of closure to this saga but leaves enough loose ends and surviving old and new characters that I would bet on, hope for, future St. Louis based / Rinker related Prey stories.  <br />One thought for Sandford's next effort:  Certain Easy Rules of the Mind in the Eyes ofa Secret Chosen Mortal turn Silent in the Sudden Shadow of the Winter Night.<br />Translated:  The Prey series has been great, but don't let the 90s Lucas wear us down.  Keep the stories coming, but trade in the Porsche.	2002-06-02
US	52808271	R3QHUAM5I0HITB	0399148566	131083538	Midnight Runner	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Bushmill's 'round the clock	Higgins' Sean Dillon novels are written to be read by Patrick Macnee.  Yes, he's older than dirt and he does overdramatize the delivery, but Macnee sounds like he's truly enjoying himself, the energy in his voice usually masking his age.  From his bombastic rasps of authority to the gruff whispers of discovery, he brings perfect pitch and accent to the cast of characters.<br />Daniel Quinn, a former Special Forces NCO in Viet Nam, former US Senator and scion of a wealthy Boston Irish family, is a new Higgins action hero.  Of course Quinn will hook up with Dillon whose mischief is more bizarre than ever - playing Cole Porter on the piano one minute, throwing down Bushmill's with Lady Kate the next then pulling out his Walther to shoot off the earlobe of a thug dumb enough to assault him and the Salters as they leave Harry's new restaurant.  The forces of evil are lined up with Kate Rashid, Countess of Loch Dhu and the surviving head of the billionaire Anglo-Arab clan.  She is bankrolling terrorists around the world and is prepared to destroy the world economy to avenge the death of her mother and three brothers in \\"Edge of Danger\\".<br />A couple of unnecessary deaths and two all too conveniently recorded conversations set up the end game, typical Higgins action with Dillon and Billy Salter vs. Lady Kate and her cousin Rupert Dauncy, the point man in her plans for revenge.  Though I did enjoy it, the series is approaching the point where Higgins should put the Brigadier (now General Ferguson) in the Daimler and drive him to an old age home dropping Dillon at an AA meeting along the way.  At times it felt more like a bunch of old guys in a bar swapping war stories than the old Higgins action stories.  Sean to Billy, \\"Saving the free world.  Why does it always have to be us?\\"  Then, \\"I'll have a Bushmill's.\\"  As I listened to Macnee and visualized Dillon and Quinn in their super hero roles, I had the random thought that Ron Howard should remake \\"Cocoon\\" as an action thriller.	2002-05-24
US	52808271	R2Q7TPGDYBOGF7	078686804X	84738703	Black Water	Books	3	3	5	N	N	I prefer the strong silent type	It started slow, probably because:<br />1. My only other Parker experience was \\"Silent Joe\\", an excellent and very different book.<br />2. I just finished \\"City of Bones\\", and Harry Bosch is a more interesting homicide detective than Merci Rayburn could ever be.  She just asks questions that build the story, gets answers and moves on.  When Harry Bosch conducts an interview, we get a complete picture of what's happening around him picking up all kinds of nuances in the answers.<br />We know Archie didn't kill Gwen and the idea that this simple young couple hit it big with a biomed stock makes for a shaky piece of the story's foundation.  The hospital scenes are also tedious with Archie first at death's door hearing Gwen's voice from the other world then, before you know it, answering Merci's annoying questions.<br />There's more reason to look for a huge bearded man with size sixteen shoes than to arrest Archie, but when reporter Gary Brice gets Archie on tape waving a gun at him, the sheriff decides to bring him in.  Archie takes off to find Gwen's killers with her ghostly voice whispering in his ear at every critical turn.  The chase reaches its bizarre conclusion, then Merci's partner Paul Zamora, Gwen's sister Pricilla and Merci's son Tim from an affair in a prior novel jump in for an almost random wrap-up on all the aspects of Merci's life.<br />I will try Parker again, but no more Merci Rayburn stories.	2002-05-22
US	52808271	R2VNVU0TE0SEYE	0892967471	681692460	Murder on the Trans-Siberian Express: A Porfiry Petrovich Rostnikov Novel	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Policework in a city without laws	I'm new to Kaminsky, so all the Russian named characters living in a different world made the early going slow.  By Book II, however, I was up to speed and turned onto the pace of three overlapping plots:<br />1. Porfiry Rostnikov, the seasoned Moscow cop with a plastic leg, along with Sasha Tkach is on a mission on the title train in a compartment with a couple of Americans, an intriguing female agent and Pavel Cherkasov, Russia's answer to Henny Youngman.  Igor (the Yak) Yaklovev is Rostnikov's Machiavellian boss.  He thrives running a police department in a society that acknowledges law enforcement but has no clearly accepted laws and has his own reasons for sending them on the assignment.  <br />2. Rostnikov's son Iosef and partner Elena are chasing Inna, a psycho whose answer to a father's lack of attention is to plunge a kitchen knife into Moscow commuters who remind her of him.<br />3. Emil Karpo another hardened police vet and his more mystical junior partner Zelach are looking for the missing lead singer in a skinhead rock band.  The Naked Cossack, whose real name is Misha Lovski, is the son of a Rupert Murdoch like Moscow media mogul rebelling against his father's life.<br />The investigations weave through each chapter moving toward independent but simultaneous conclusions.  The drama of the chase or who did what to whom, however, is the sideshow.  The real story is about how Kaminsky's characters react to what happens around them, both on and off the job.  In the end it's not about justice but rather Rostnikov and the Yak manipulating each other to preserve what passes for order in their chaotic worlds.  Even if you can't remember their names or identify with their lifestyles, you'll know what makes Kaminsky's characters tick and empathize with the way each plays the hand life has dealt.	2002-05-18
US	52808271	R3O58QIQW94KYC	1586212036	817062475	City of Bones (Harry Bosch)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Light at the End of the Tunnel?	Michael Connelly may be the Jerry Seinfeld of crime fiction.  He builds his stories with pieces of the nothings of everyday life. When Harry Bosch bungles the switch from call waiting, Lt. Grace Billets, who's been his boss since \\"Angel's Flight\\", finally finds out that he and Jerry Edger call her Bullets.  Watch sergeant Mankiewicz tells Bosch to use his wiles as in Wile E. Coyote to move the bones case along and knows that the best donuts in his squad room come from Bob's in the Farmer's Market.<br />Bosch fans will also appreciate how smoothly Connelly intorduces another love interest to the series while an old one remains on the scene.  Teresa Corazon, a soul mate and casual sex partner of Harry way back in \\"The Black Ice\\" is now the publicity hungry Medical Examiner who takes a camera crew to document everything she investigates.  She's become almost as much of a bumbling nemesis as Harvey \\"98\\" Pounds used to be.  Julia Brasher, a rookie cop in her mid-thirties, former lawyer from a family of successful lawyers, is Harry's current squeeze.<br />When the old bones of an abused young boy are found in a shallow grave, the reader should recognize from the outset that technology and good policework will enable the cops to I.D. the victim pretty quickly.  The early part of the story isn't about what the investigation uncovers but rather the unintended consequences of events it sets in motion.  Deputy Chief Irving is still around, always ready to deep six the truth and Harry's investigation if it will make his department look better.  He's more than outlived his usefulness as the poster boy for evil bureaucrats, but where would Harry be without him to rebel against?<br />Once the bones are identified and Harry starts to resurrect the dirty secrets of the family de la Croix, the story goes back to a Connellly whodunit - one where Harry may be the only one who really cares about the truth.  The pace and path to the solution are typical Connelly, exceptionally well done.<br />As to the ending, if you've read the jacket or another review you already know that it's different.  The question is, when the old tunnel rat finally does see the light at the end, is it a door to a new beginning or the dreaded oncoming train?  I'm hoping for the door out and a whole new series of Harry Bosch stories.	2002-05-07
US	52808271	R25EFGF17C61NH	1586210971	901478720	Bird's-Eye View	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Bird Brained Book	Fritz Tullis is a belligerent pot smoking lothario now pushing forty who somehow evolved out of a smart athletic golden boy with a Ph.d. from Yale.  He is, or was before he was fired, a well-liked college professor who presumably has book smarts but as much common sense as Ollie the lost whooping crane, which has more depth as a character than Fritz.  Freedman goes on to make his villain an evil arms dealer in diplomat's clothing and names him Roach.  Is he playing with his readers, or does he think these people seem real. <br />Fritz's amateurish investigation of the murder he saw takes him into pitfall after pitfall, almost like the old Saturday serials where the audience wants to scream, \\"no, don't go there.\\"  Take the visit to his college buddy Buster who's now a big time Washington lawyer.  \\"Can I trust Buster?\\"  Come on!<br />In the end Freedman needs to use a bad guy with a gun standing over Fritz and his babe to explain how everything ties together.  It wouldn't flow from the story any other way, and Fritz certainly wasn't going to figure it out.  Like its leading man, this story is all promise and zero substance.	2002-05-07
US	52808271	RJ5NZY8MVPHWK	0312282753	639616457	Money Wanders: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Right on the Money	Mickey Price is a 95-year-old kindly Jewish grandfather whose past was as notorious as Meyer Lansky's. His pal Irv the Curve was with Dutch Schultz when he was gunned down in Newark in 1935. Both have survived their prohibition era heritage by \\"seeming\\" but have not abandoned all ties to their old lives. In his final days Mickey, who sort of controls the Golden Prospect casino in Atlantic City, tells his grandson Jonah Eastman that Philadelphia crime boss Mario Vanni needs to talk with him. Jonah, a 38-year-old Dartmouth grad raised away from the business (with Mickey while he was on the lam in Europe, actually), is called the \\"Poll Vaulter\\" in D.C. because of his aggressive methods of shaping public opinion. Mickey dies and Vanni hires Jonah to make him respectable enough to get a casino license, an offer he couldn't refuse.<br />Here the story bumps around a bit from an \\"Analyze This\\" type farce, which it isn't, to a veiled expose of how la Cosa Nostra operates. For a while it seemed Denzenhall would be content to use characters like Mickey and Irv merely to lob in bits of Mafia lore, like it was the mob that hit both JFK and Vince Foster. The subplots of the Vanni makeover, Jonah's romance with Edie the waspy klezmorim singer, his confrontations with Noel who is Vanni's psycho consigliere and everybody's quest for what Mickey left behind start to wander like the money in the title. More than once I stopped to speculate on how this phase of Jonah's life would end, but nothing I imagined came close to what Denzenhall serves up.<br />In the last 50 or so pages all the pieces of the story including many seemingly insignificant references to Indian culture and the mysteries of the Pine Barrens tie together in a very satisfying conclusion. There's also a somewhat thoughtful message about what shapes the legacy of the next generation. \\"Hey, am I gonna be a senator today or am I gonna hit some loan shark with a pipe?\\"  With the exception of a scene with Jonah and Noel inCarvin' Marvin's Cadillac Seville, Mickey and his crew did a pretty good job of letting Jonah find his way.	2002-04-21
US	52808271	R1ZNGCONU68YG4	0312282753	639616457	Money Wanders: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Right on the Money	Mickey Price is a 95-year-old kindly Jewish grandfather whose past was as notorious as Meyer Lansky's.  His pal Irv the Curve was with Dutch Schultz when he was gunned down in Newark in 1935.  Both have survived their prohibition era heritage by \\"seeming\\" but have not abandoned all ties to their old lives.  In his final days Mickey, who sort of controls the Golden Prospect casino in Atlantic City, tells his grandson Jonah Eastman that Philadelphia crime boss Mario Vanni needs to talk with him.  Jonah, a 38-year-old Dartmouth grad raised away from the business (with Mickey while he was on the lam in Europe, actually), is called the \\"Poll Vaulter\\" in D.C. because of his aggressive methods of shaping public opinion.  Mickey dies and Vanni hires Jonah to make him respectable enough to get a casino license, an offer he couldn't refuse.<br />Here the story bumps around a bit from an \\"Analyze This\\" type farce, which it isn't, to a veiled secondhand expose of how la Cosa Nostra operates.  For a while it seemed Denzenhall would be content to use characters like Mickey and Irv merely to lob in bits of Mafia lore, like it was the mob that his both JFK and Vince Foster.  The subplots of the Vanni makeover, Jonah's romance with Edie the waspy klezmorim singer, his confrontations with Noel who is Vanni's psycho consigliere and everybody's quest for what Mickey left behind start to wander like the money in the title.  More than once I stopped to speculate on how this phase of Jonah's life would end, but nothing I imagined came close.<br />In the last 50 or so pages every piece of Denzenhall's story including many seemingly insignificant references to Indian culture and the mysteries of the Pine Barrens ties together in a very satisfying conclusion.  There's also a somewhat thoughtful message about what the real legacy is from one generation to the next.  With the exception of a preposterous scene with Jonah and Noel in Carvin' Marvin's Cadillac Seville, Mickey and his crew did a pretty good job of letting Jonah find his way.	2002-04-21
US	52808271	RRUHBARW54ZOU	0399148329	353148593	A Murder of Promise	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A lot of Promise, but Honor was better	Andrews writes great crime fiction. The many comparisons to George Pelecanos are valid. Each has written about murders in D.C. with a pair of black / white investigators from very different backgrounds at the center of the action, and each ends those novels with an act of imperfect justice that the reader understands but the rest of the world will not know.<br />Mary Keegan, Pulitzer Prize winning reporter for the Post who is writing a novel about two powerful fathers and their sons, is murdered. Franklin Delano Kearney and Josephus Phelps, two fifty something homicide lieutenants who have worked together twenty plus years and premiered in Andrews' prior \\"a murder of\\" novel, start shaking things up. Andrews also treats us to a realistic view of Frank and Jose's personal lives. Frank's relationship with his father Tom, a retired judge whose health is starting to fail and who's not shy about expressing his views about how Washington really works, is a subtle overlay to Mary Keegan's work in progress which is always hanging in the background.<br />Are the murders connected? Is there a serial killer loose? A third gruesome killing that fits the pattern points to the latter, and things heat up. Two of the three victims used a smallish Internet Service Provider in Maryland run by three pretty weird guys. All of the ISP clients had access to a virtual computer game involving a hunt for the Holy Grail. Hunter Elliot a.k.a. Orion, the computer geek who helped shape the finale of \\"A Murder of Honor\\", discovers a sophisticated eavesdropping program on those two victims' computers.<br />A lot of solid police work spiced with some high tech stuff sets up the end game. The chase scene, unfortunately, is absurd, and when the killer is finally caught, you should see one huge hole still left in the story. Damien Halligan, Mary Keegan's mysterious brother, reappears and hands Frank the missing link, and a second climax unfolds. I give it 4 stars not 5 because it's not quite as tightas \\"A Murder of Honor\\", but it's definitely worth putting on your list if you like the genre.	2002-04-13
US	52808271	R3GKIW0590G08H	0399148329	353148593	A Murder of Promise	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A lot of Promise, but Honor was better	Andrews writes great crime fiction.  The many comparisons to George Pelecanos are valid.  Each has written about murders in D.C. with a pair of black / white investigators from very different backgrounds at the center of the action, and each ends those novels with an act of imperfect justice that the reader understands but the rest of the world will not know.<br />Mary Keegan, Pulitzer Prize winning reporter for the Post who is writing a novel about two powerful fathers and their sons, is murdered.  Franklin Delano Kearney and Josephus Phelps, two fifty something homicide lieutenants who have worked together twenty plus years and premiered in Andrews' prior \\"a murder of\\" novel, start shaking things up.  Andrews also treats us to a realistic view of Frank and Jose's personal lives.  Frank's relationship with his father Tom, a retired judge whose health is starting to fail and who's not shy about expressing his views about how Washington really works, is a subtle overlay to Mary Keegan's work in progress which is always hanging in the background.<br />Are the murders connected?  Is there a serial killer loose?   A third gruesome killing that fits the pattern points to the latter, and things heat up.  Two of the three victims used a smallish Internet Service Provider in Maryland run by three pretty weird guys.  All of the ISP clients had access to a virtual computer game involving a hunt for the Holy Grail.  Hunter Elliot a.k.a. Orion, the computer geek who helped shape the finale of \\"A Murder of Honor\\", discovers a sophisticated eavesdropping program on those two victims' computers.<br />A lot of solid police work spiced with some high tech stuff sets up the end game.  The chase scene, unfortunately, is absurd, and when the killer is finally caught, you should see one huge hole still left in the story.  Damien Halligan, Mary Keegan's mysterious brother, reappears and hands Frank the missing link, and a second climax unfolds.  I give it 4 stars not 5 because it's not quite as tight as \\"A Murder of Honor\\", but it's definitely worth putting on your list if you like the genre.	2002-04-13
US	52808271	RHV5B3IU8VGIE	055352903X	627668908	Widow's Walk (Spenser Novels)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A great escape	Anytime Joe Mantegna narrates the audio version of a Robert B. Parker or Elmore Leonard novel, I'll buy it. His clipped delivery of Spenser's \\"I said, she said\\" lines and compact descriptions of the world around him brings the story to life and, perhaps, touches up many of the flaws some critics have noted. (Warning: Joe does not pronounce Louisberg, Newberry or Houghton the way a Bostonian would.)<br />Signs of an aging relationship are gracefully woven into \\"Widow's Walk\\" with Pearl the Wonderdog nearly deaf and Susan and Spenser sparring about who will make the final visit to the vet when the time comes. Three times Spenser points out that he and Susan have been together for twenty-five years (with one timeout along the way). In the end, however, it's the same old Spenser still punching people out and spurning an array of long legged, short skirted young women who can't resist the allure of a man who by now must be twice their age. <br />Brahmin Nathan Smith is dead, and his sexy, dumb 30-year-old wife Mary is charged with the murder. Her lawyer Rita Fiore, a sexy redhead by the way, hires Spenser to help build her defense, and he begins to pick away at the Oz-like curtain that surrounds life with the Smiths. The plot unfolds like one big game of virtual musical chairs. Every two chapters or so a fringe character is either killed off or explained away in one of Spenser's terse recaps of what has happened so far. In the end Spenser is literally chasing his villain around a parked Buick in the middle of the night in a lightning storm.<br />Great literature it's not, but four stars to both Parker and Mantegna for making six hours in the car seem a lot shorter.	2002-04-06
US	52808271	R2JV6GE217TK8J	055352903X	627668908	Widow's Walk (Spenser Novels)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A great escape	Anytime Joe Mantegna narrates the audio version of a Robert B. Parker or Elmore Leonard novel, I'll buy it.  His cliped delivery of Spenser's \\"I said, she said\\" lines and compact descriptions of the world around him brings the story to life and, perhaps, touches up many of the flaws some critics have noted.  (Warning:  Joe does not pronounce Louisberg, Newberry or Houghton the way a Bostonian would.)<br />Signs of an aging relationship are gracefully woven into \\"Widow's Walk\\" with Pearl the Wonderdog nearly deaf and Susan and Spenser sparring about who will make the final visit to the vet when the time comes.  Three times Spenser points out that he and Susan have been together for twenty-five years (with one timeout along the way).  In the end, however, it's the same old Spenser still punching people out and spurning an array of long legged, short skirted young women who can't resist the allure of a man who by now must be twice their age.  <br />Brahmin Nathan Smith is dead, and his sexy, dumb 30-year-old wife Mary is charged with the murder.  Her lawyer Rita Fiore, a sexy redhead by the way, hires Spenser to help build her defense, and he begins to pick away at the Oz-like curtain that surrounds life with the Smiths.  The plot unfolds like one big game of virtual musical chairs.  Every two chapters or so a fringe character is either killed off or explained away in one of Spenser's terse recaps of what has happened so far.  In the end Spenser is literally chasing his villain around a parked Buick in the middle of the night in a lightning storm.<br />Great literature it's not, but four stars to both Parker and Mantegna for making six hours in the car seem a lot shorter.	2002-04-06
US	52808271	R2POCJTGVW740J	0743221990	736731828	The Stone Monkey: A Lincoln Rhyme Novel (Lincoln Rhyme Novels)	Books	2	4	6	N	N	It's not personal, Sonny. It's strictly business.	In the real world a ship ran aground off Long Island a few years ago leaving it's cargo of illegal Chinese immigrants wandering the grounds of multi-million dollar homes in the Hamptons. The next day the wags of Wall Street contended that half of them were already driving cabs in Manhattan.<br />\\"The Stone Monkey\\" feels like Jeffrey Deaver took that picture and blew it up into his latest forensic thriller, probably laughing all the way to the bank. Along the way he expects the reader to accept that:<br /> -it makes sense to run a smuggling ship from China to NY with a total of 20-30 \\"piglets\\" (Deaver's term for the human cargo),<BR> -his villain \\"The Ghost\\" has the money, connections and mobility to easily outmaneuver the NYPD, FBI and INS,<BR> -most of the piglets were resourceful enough to escape certain death when the ship blew up (If they were that good, why were they on it to begin with?),<BR> -Rhyme and Sachs, simply by looking at nine photos of footprints from the crime scene, can figure out most of what happened to create the crisis at hand. <br />There is one bright spot in the story, a suspicious loner among the piglets called Sonny Li. When Sonny finally meets up with Lincoln Rhyme, the story takes a sharp turn with a great new character in the game.<br />In the end there are at least four head fakes as to who The Ghost really is and what he was up to. The interaction between Rhyme and Sachs, which I have enjoyed in prior Deaver novels, is just plain annoying in this one. Maybe if Deaver let Sonny Li rise above the supporting role he wrote for him in this story, it would have made for a more satisfying conclusion. This one didn't work.	2002-04-01
US	52808271	R2JMYXOOSJFYXT	0743221990	736731828	The Stone Monkey: A Lincoln Rhyme Novel (Lincoln Rhyme Novels)	Books	2	0	1	N	N	It's not personal, Sonny.  It's strictly business.	In the real world a ship ran aground off Long Island a few years ago leaving it's cargo of illegal Chinese immigrants wandering the grounds of multi-million dollar homes in the Hamptons.  The next day the wags of Wall Street contended that half of them were already driving cabs in Manhattan.<br />\\"The Stone Monkey\\" feels like Jeffrey Deaver took that picture and blew it up into his latest forensic thriller, probably laughing all the way to the bank.  Along the way he expects the reader to accept that:<br />   -it makes sense to run a smuggling ship from China to NY with a total of 20-30 \\"piglets\\" (Deaver's term for the human cargo),<BR>   -his villain \\"The Ghost\\" has the money, connections and mobility to easily outmaneuver the NYPD, FBI and INS,<BR>   -most of the piglets were resourceful enough to escape certain death when the ship blew up (If they were that good, why were they on it to begin with?),<BR>   -Rhymne and Sachs, simply by looking at nine photos of footprints from the crime scene, can figure out most of what happened to create the crisis at hand. <br />There is one bright spot in the story, a suspicious loner among the piglets called Sonny Li.  When Sonny finally meets up with Lincoln Rhyme, the story takes a sharp turn with a great new character in the game.<br />In the end there are at least four head fakes as to who The Ghost really is and what he was up to.  The interaction between Rhyme and Sachs, which I have enjoyed in prior Deaver novels, is just plain annoying in this one.  Maybe if Deaver let Sonny Li rise above the supporting role he wrote for him in this story, it would have made for a more satisfying conclusion.  This one didn't work.	2002-04-01
US	52808271	R269KQ5JBE4ONM	0399148515	826329544	The English Assassin	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Same great action with a different twist	The English Assassin, an Andy McNab-like SAS operative who was presumed dead in the Gulf War, is really a bit part player. Silva's Kill Artist Gabriel Allon and Anna Rolfe the virtuoso daughter of a Swiss Nazi sympathizer (Silva is not kind to the Swiss as a neutral during WWII) are the main event.<br />Gabriel, art restorer and part time Israeli hit man, goes to Zurich to restore a Raphael and finds owner Augustus Rolfe dead and a secret collection of masters missing. At the same time the English Assassin, working for a contract killer named Orsati out of Corsica, is on a job in the Basque country. Later they will converge on Werner Muller's art gallery in Paris where they will realize their paths have crossed before.<br />Part of the fun of a Silva novel is the way he brings a chapter to a crescendo then abruptly transports the reader to another, repeating the experience again and again. He takes his story all over Europe with action packed scenes occasionally spiced with mundane everyday stuff, like the deadly English Assassin having to awkwardly lure Orsati's goat out of his path or Allon's surveillance team describing the kinky aspects of Herr Muller's life.<br />Most of the way I liked this as much or more than \\"The Kill Artist\\". When Gabriel and Anna discover something that starts the end game with 150 pages to go, I was fully prepared for a surprise ending of some sort, but never the one that came. Out of character for Silva? Yes, and disruptive to the flow, but did the ending kill the story? No way! This was still a 5 star thriller.	2002-03-26
US	52808271	R2PWRR1P4DC04Q	0399148515	826329544	The English Assassin	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Same great action with a different twist	The English Assassin, an Andy McNab-like SAS operative who was presumed dead in the Gulf War, is really a bit part player.  Silva's Kill Artist Gabriel Allon and Anna Rolfe the virtuoso daughter of a Swiss Nazi sympathizer (Silva is not kind to the Swiss as a neutral during WWII) are the main event.<br />Gabriel, art restorer and part time Israeli hit man, goes to Zurich to restore a Raphael and finds owner Augustus Rolfe dead and a secret collection of masters missing.  At the same time the English Assassin, working for a contract killer named Orsati out of Corsica, is on a job in the Basque country.  Later they will converge on Werner Muller's art gallery in Paris where they will realize their paths have crossed before.<br />Part of the fun of a Silva novel is the way he brings a chapter to a crescendo then abruptly transports the reader to another, repeating the experience again and again.  He takes his story all over Europe with action packed scenes occasionally spiced with mundane everyday stuff, like the deadly English Assassin having to awkwardly lure Orsati's goat out of his path or Allon's surveillance team describing the kinky aspects of Herr Muller's life.<br />Most of the way I liked this as much or more as \\"The Kill Artist\\".  When Gabriel and Anna discover something that starts the end game with 150 pages to go, I was fully prepared for a surprise ending of some sort, but never the one that came.  Out of character for Silva?  Yes, and disruptive to the flow, but did the ending kill the story?  No way!  This was still a 5 star thriller.	2002-03-26
US	52808271	R1TGN6R5NJ411D	1587880717	55821494	Diamond Dogs	Books	3	5	7	N	N	This Dog Doesn't Hunt	I found \\"Diamond Dogs\\" scrolling through Amazon reviews, impressed with the many thoughtful well-written raves. Sorry, I see it a little differently.<br />The setting is well crafted. Carmen NV is a town where most parents are struggling to make a buck off of Vegas. Fathers who work the casinos by night watch their kids sports practices by day, few on their first marriages, family commitments limited by the impermanent nature of their worlds. Neil Garvin's father Chester is the heavy-drinking town sheriff whose facade of authority hides just another misfit.<br />Neil tells the story of the boy he ran over, his inability to come to grips with what he did and how his father instinctively used his position and experience to cover it up. Telling the whole story through a 17-year-old's eyes, however, doesn't really work. Watt is terrific at capturing the frustrations of Neil's adolescence, life without the mother who left them and dealing with an unreliable father whose hold on his life is greater than he understands. But the story demands more, and Watt sees it. When he describes things of a broader, more adult perspective in Neil's voice, it takes on an artificial almost pompous tone.<br />Chester's character flaws run too deep, even for Carmen NV. The father /son night in Las Vegas and showdown that follows set up an ending that is neither surprising nor satisfying. Watt is a talented writer, and I wish he made this a more credible story.	2002-03-24
US	52808271	R2V9B9RJ1A5BEK	0312876866	876986940	Proof Positive (Prancing Tiger)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A literary jigsaw puzzle, expertly crafted	I think it's one of the best action thrillers of the past year. Singerman takes his story around the world from the end of WWII to present, with an array of interesting characters all of whom will interlock with at least one other as the story builds to its exciting conclusion.<br />In 1945 a woman is murdered in Austria. Solomon Kessler picks up an album of concentration camp photos her killers sought. Fifty years later an Argentine assassin kills CID Special Agent Stan Erland. Erland's boss McKenzie Rockett and Angela Becker are on the case. Erland had also been investigating the execution style murder of psychic Leo Weiser who, it happens, was Soloman Kessler living under a new identity.<br />Angela, an ex-model who grew up wealthy, now a cop and part-time social worker who loves fast cars, is an all around great character. Rockett brings in Roland Troy, ex-homicide detective and martial arts pro with a complicated past to team up with Angela, and a great partnership is formed.<br />Leo's wife Justine tells Angela that Leo had recently spotted someone from his past. Before Angela knows it, the reader realizes Leo saw Novac DuCharme, a super rich white supremacist who was a sadistic concentration camp guard in 1945.<br />At the halfway point another force comes into the story, Chotoku Nakama a.k.a. Bassai, an Asian warlord who nursed Roland Troy to health after an incident in Viet Nam. An Iranian arms dealer comes to Bassai offering a shipment intended for DuCharme, and Bassai takes an action that lets Troy know he's around if he needs him.<br />After 280 pages the bang-bang pace suddenly drifts to something more serene. Troy goes back to Vermont.  Then Leo's widow Justine reappears, and things start back up. It builds to an exciting conclusion, a little more violence than necessary, but overall a great action story tying past and present together in a well balanced, exciting finale.	2002-03-24
US	52808271	R1ROH41BPW5FCA	0316693200	309666534	2nd Chance	Books	5	4	5	N	N	2nd Tops 1st	What I assume is the 2nd of what will become Patterson's \\"Number Books\\" again presents a story in quick paced 2-4 page chapters you can breeze right through. Most of it is wallpaper for the story, except that every fifth chapter or so Patterson lays out a piece of the mystery or one of the key characters, and you better pay attention.<br />A San Francisco psycho has killed a young black girl and an older black women, both related to police officers. Soon (actually, in Chapter 43) he will strike closer to home.<br />Lindsay Boxer and her unofficial team of investigators have tied the killings to Chimera, the worst of California's prison gangs. In a Hannibal Lecter-like scene Lindsay is taken to see Chimera leader Weiscz who is \\"in the Pool\\" in Pelican Bay and comes away thinking a cop or ex-cop may be their man. Then Patterson introduces dirty ex-cop Frank Coombs, and I started paying attention to every page.<br />Things heat up the rest of the way with great action and more than a few surprises. I thought \\"1st to Die\\" was great but liked this one better. The main players and the pace were the same, but \\"2nd Chance\\" had one less twist at the end making for a smoother finale.	2002-03-19
US	52808271	R1HJZON5I3FQEP	1587884666	195458576	Hollowpoint	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Can anything grow in Brooklyn?	If the left scale is the lighter side of crime fiction (Leonard, Hiaasen, Shames) and the right is darker (Lehane, TJ Parker, Pelecanos), Rob Reuland is on the right edge.  It's not a lot of violence that puts him there but the bleak, decadent, self-pitying nature of his leading man, Brooklyn Asst. D.A. Andrew (Gio pronounced \\"Joe\\") Giobberti.  <br />Fourteen-year-old Kayla Harris is shot with a hollowpoint bullet, Giobberti has the case and the obvious suspect Lamar Lamb (\\"LL\\") may not be the guy.  Gio is either too hardened or too ambivalent to believe in LL's innocence.  His assistant Stacey Sharpe is one year out of law school, throws off some Allie McBeal mannerisms but will never shake her working class roots, and is more concerned with getting at the truth than Gio is.<br />This book is not about the case but the characters.  At 38 Gio is both a little too old for the life he lives and at the same time too young to have given up as he has.  After the death of his five-year-old daughter a year earlier, Gio has been hopping in and out of bars and beds in a Brooklyn sketched in black and white.  Stacey, whether it's because her father committed suicide when she was seventeen or something else, seems ready and willing to jump in the sack with whomever.  Gio is a convenient if not compatible partner.<br />When Reuland tells the story in language taken from the Brooklyn surroundings, it works well.  All too often, however, he brushes in words that are too flowery for the scene or has Giobberti talk about golf or make an improbable literary reference, and it loses somethng.  Two morality plays toward the end weigh heavy, particularly using Kayla's half-sister Utopia as the voice for one, waxing in a sixteen-year-old's voice of the 'hood, which just doesn't ring true.<br />Toward the end I decided I would let my final rating ride on the last chapter which, unfortunately, I thought was overwritten and overreaching, again taking characters out of the roles they had played to deliver a message that was more than the story needed.  So I gave it 3 stars not 4, but I wanted to like it more.	2002-03-19
US	52808271	R2X9RA0Z7LCVG6	1587884666	195458576	Hollowpoint	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Can anything grow in Brooklyn?	If the left scale is the lighter side of crime fiction (Leonard, Hiaasen, Shames) and the right is darker (Lehane, TJ Parker, Pelecanos), Rob Reuland is on the right edge. It's not a lot of violence that puts him there but the bleak, decadent, self-pitying nature of his leading man, Brooklyn Asst. D.A. Andrew (Gio pronounced \\"Joe\\") Giobberti. <br />Fourteen-year-old Kayla Harris is shot with a hollowpoint bullet, Giobberti has the case and the obvious suspect Lamar Lamb (\\"LL\\") may not be the guy. Gio is either too hardened or too ambivalent to believe in LL's innocence. His assistant Stacey Sharpe is one year out of law school, throws off some Ally McBeal mannerisms but will never shake her working class roots, and is more concerned with getting at the truth than Gio is.<br />This book is not about the case but the characters. At 38 Gio is both a little too old for the life he lives and at the same time too young to have given up as he has. After the death of his five-year-old daughter a year earlier, Gio has been hopping in and out of bars and beds in a Brooklyn sketched in black and white. Stacey, whether it's because her father committed suicide when she was seventeen or something else, seems ready and willing to jump in the sack with whomever. Gio is a convenient if not compatible partner.<br />When Reuland tells the story in language taken from the Brooklyn surroundings, it works well. All too often, however, he brushes in words that are too flowery for the scene or has Giobberti talk about golf or make an improbable literary reference, and it loses somethng. Two morality plays toward the end weigh heavy, particularly using Kayla's half-sister Utopia as the voice for one, waxing in a sixteen-year-old's voice of the 'hood, which just doesn't ring true.<br />Toward the end I decided I would let my final rating ride on the last chapter which, unfortunately, I thought was overwritten and overreaching, again taking characters out of the roles they had played to deliver a message that was more than the story needed. So I gave it 3 stars not 4, but I wanted to like it more.	2002-03-19
US	52808271	R3E6TN9M0TEPHQ	0688163165	733601761	Mystic River	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	From the darker side of Beantown	Dennis Lehane captures the dark side of life in and around Boston and writes dialogue as well as anyone. The thread of child abuse that runs through everything I've read by him is discomforting, but he still creates a great story.<br />This one begins with a flashback to when Jimmy, Sean and Dave were 11 years old. Two guys posing as cops hassled them for fighting and took Dave away in their car. Twenty-five years later Jimmy's daughter Kate is murdered the night before her wedding. Sean's a State Cop, and he and his partner Whitey are called to the scene. Dave, now married but probably affected by that boyhood incident, is the reader's immediate suspect.<br />The cops banter about evidence, pieces that may or may not make sense. Dave's squarely in the picture with big holes in his story, but will they tie him to Kate's murder?<br />Jimmy's life becomes central to the story which unfolds during Sean and Whitey's investigation. The characters really come to life, and there are many twists and turns on the path toward conclusion. Very well done!	2002-03-17
US	52808271	RNSDFJYJ2FP10	0671047337	141415139	Separation of Power (A Mitch Rapp Novel)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	You'll wish Mitch Rapp was real!	Where was Mitch Rapp when we really needed him.  He saved President Robert Hayes from terrorists in a prior novel, saves Mossad operative and ex-lover Donatella Rahn from assassins in this one and then takes time out to go after a nuke Saddam is hiding under a hospital in Baghdad.  If that's not enough, he comes home to squeeze Mossad chief Ben Friedman who's working behind the scenes with some bad U.S. politicians.<br />The only weak part of the story is news babe girlfriend Anna Reilly.  She can hold up Air Force One because she's habitually late, dominate a press conference with inane questions of President Hayes who likes her, then throw a hissy fit when Mitch brings a wounded Donatella back to their hotel room in Milan after a hair-raising escape from the Mossad assassins.<br />The political backdrop is that former CIA Director Stansfield is dead, his protege Irene Kennedy will be nominated to replace him and Republican Senator Clark promises Democratic President Hayes he will support her.  Publicly Clark is all smiles, but behind the scenes he uses the demagogue Representative Albert Rudin to try and torpedo the nomination.<br />There's a lot of great action and enough twists and turns to keep things interesting.  It builds to an exciting and very satisfying ending.  Vince Flynn's best!	2002-03-17
US	52808271	R2P8DI2UMY34IO	0736644105	316789443	The Man With The Getaway Face	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Making a buck in the early '60s	Donald Westlake writes of Dortmunder, a bumbling petty criminal it's really hard to like. Then as Richard Stark he gives us Parker, a much more competent crook who will kill when he has to, and surprisingly or not, a much more likeable character.<br />It was written in 1963 when the mob was \\"The Outfit\\", Exxon was still Esso and you took the ferry to Brooklyn, not the Verrazano Narrows Bridge. Parker gets a new face from Dr. Adler, a plastic surgeon in Nebraska who was a pre 50s Commie, then goes back to New Jersey for an armored car heist. Skim and Elma, Skim's overbearing waitress girlfriend, set up the heist, develop an unworkable plan that Parker fixes and set up a doublecross that Parker anticipates. All would be fine except Dr. Adler has been killed, and a guy named Stubbs is sent to find the killer.<br />The interaction between Parker and Stubbs and their search for a swindler named Wallenbaugh, now Wells, take up the rest of the story. Parker's reasons for getting to Wells and going back to Nebraska to square things come from logic only his mind could concoct, but it makes for a fun adventure.	2002-03-16
US	52808271	R2NT70B0L9UP8W	0375401253	285859776	Flinch	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Cain and Abel in Southern California	Ferrigno writes great dialogue and shoot 'em up action scenes with the sleazy side of Southern California as backdrop.  Despite a sibling rivalry that is uncomfortable in its extreme, this is a great story.<br />Flinch is the game Jimmy Gage and his older brother Jonathan played as kids, each pushing the other to a point that would make him flinch.  Jimmy creates a national sensation when he gets a box of broken eggs claiming to connect six unrelated murders and writes about it for \\"Slap\\" magazine.  Soon the story is dismissed as a hoax with only Detective Jane Holt still believing there is an \\"Eggman killer\\" on the loose.  Jimmy follows a rock band to Europe, gets tossed in jail for three months and finds that his girlfriend Olivia married brother Jonathan the day before he got out to return home.  <br />Jimmy believes Jonathan is the Eggman killer, and one ongoing game of high stakes Flinch runs between them throughout the book.  The interlocking stories work well.  Jimmy avenges the death of cop Desmond Terrill's son killed by Lee Macklin, a real bad guy who runs drugs, a nightspot and a wrestling business of sorts with Great White, the classic monster muscle guy as his bodyguard.  A rival group consisting of weightlifting Spanish chick Pilar and her lackey Blaine, wrestling's Robo-Surfer, fill out the cast of weird people.  <br />There are some terrific action scenes with Great White - wait 'til you get to the one where he takes on the Chechens or his final showdown with Jimmy.<br />The ending is, well, interesting ... enough said.  A very different but very enjoyable story.	2002-03-16
US	52808271	R6LIZTC5LOUKY	0399147837	991985349	Shadow Warriors: Inside the Special Forces (Study in Command)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Interesting Slice of Military History	This is a brief history of the Special Forces from 1944 when the legendary Aaron Bank started a unit at the direction of Wild Bill Donovan.  I was struck by the range of opinions by Amazon reviewers with military backgrounds.  I suspect both extremes are valid in that:  1. Carl Stiner is a legitimate American hero, and 2. The book omits or glosses over some things he didn't want to get into.<br />Here are a few points that peaked my interest along the way:<br />1.  Special Forces was viewed early on as a renegade organization not fully trusted by the military establishment.  Their early efforts were hampered by both inexperience and constraints in the chain of command.<br />2.  JFK was a big early supporter.  He visited the new group at Ft. Bragg in October '61 where troops wore green berets in publicly for the first time.  Bill Yarborough was in charge of shaping a force that Kennedy believed would deal with warefare as it would become.<br />3.  Stiner was a great trainer and team builder, but would he have followed the same path if he came out of West Point?  He joined the Army from ROTC at Tennessee Tech in 1958, was sent to Special Forces at Bragg in '64, saw heavy action as a Major in the First Brigade in Viet Nam in '67-68 and made General in early 1980<br />4.  Stiner and Schwarzkopf were both 4 star generals in Desert Storm with the latter, obviously, more senior in command.  Stiner believes Schwarzkopf held a bias against Special Operations not uncommon among traditional military men, and one key special operation was approved only after Cheney overrode Powell's reservations about the plan.  Stiner left this reader with the impression that more extensive use of Special Operations in '91 might have produced a more complete solution in Iraq.<br />This is not in-depth history, for sure, but a very interesting and credible read.	2002-03-16
US	52808271	R1MUWP83TESYYI	0316695068	546468505	Hell to Pay: A Novel	Books	5	5	6	N	N	D.C.'s Other Department of Justice	P.I. Derek strange is back with Janine and her son Lionel as well as Terry Quinn from \\"Right As Rain\\" who is helping him coach Pee Wee football and doing some investigating on the side.  It opens with bad guy Garfield \\"Death\\" Potter at a pit bull fight (he's so bad he later shoots the losing dog) browbeating a guy to tell him where to find Lorenze Wilder who owes him $100.  Strange appears when he meets Susan Tracy and Karen Bagley, two ex-cops now running a detective agency that finds runaways and helps hookers.<br />Tracy and Bagley hire Quinn to track down a 14-year-old runaway who is controlled by pimp Worldwide Wilson.  Terry screws up the snatch, Susan bails him out and they become a hot item in the aftermath.<br />On a parallel story line, Potter and co. kill Lorenze and his nephew Joe on their way home from Pee Wee football practice.  Lorenze's sister has been raising Joe on her own, never telling him who his father is.  He's a force that will figure into the rest of the story.<br />Though 2/3 of D.C. homicides go unsolved, ther are enough clues and enough interest to get Joe Wilder's killers.  Strange gets to Potter before the cops do.  At the same time Terry is going after Worldwide who beat up Stella the working girl who tipped them to the runaway.<br />The two parallel showdowns are a stretch, but Pelecanos has a great way of letting justice be done.  In the end the reader knows what happened to whom and is still left to speculate how Pelecanos expects the criminal justic system to clean things up.<br />Enough loose ends for a sequel?  I hope so!  Pelecanos never disappoints.	2002-03-10
US	52808271	R2NS1A0YM0Z0PP	0316695262	851439685	Right As Rain: A Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Why isn't Pelecanos better known?	With Elmore Leonard, Michael Connelly and Dennis Lehane writing blurbs on the book jacket, you know this guy can write a crime story with great characters and dialogue.  It's set on the streets of D.C., different from what you see on Brokaw and Rather.  Derek Strange, a retired black cop, is asked by Chris Wilson's mother to clear her son's name.  He was a black off duty cop with a gun standing over a white guy when he was shot and killed by Terry Quinn, a white off duty cop.<br />Derek and Terry become buddies.  The story reels in redneck Earl Boone and his dumb son Ray (Critter), a couple of dope smugglers, a few Colombians and Cherokee Coleman, a local hoopster of some note, good point guard but not good enough for the big time, who runs the drug operation.<br />When you cut to the chase, Terry's old partner Eugene Franklin was a bad guy and Chris Wilson was onto him.  Strange figures things out, of course, there's some great action and the kind of not quite tied together ending that Pelecanos presents so well.  The Metro Police don't know exactly what happened, but they have enough to give Chris Wilson the posthumous recognition he deserved.  Derek and Terry go back to their separate day to day lives, but they'll be back in \\"Hell to Pay\\".<br />I thought both stories were great!	2002-03-10
US	52808271	R3M1YVHONNSCDG	0553477498	490562585	Time to Hunt	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Great Action Story	Donny Fenn, an all-American boy and Marine with a Bronze Star, is coerced by the Navy snoops to spy on Eddie Crowe in the spring of '71.  Eddie, a priviledged PFC in Donny's \\"body squad\\", hands out with charismatic Trig Carter and a bunch of Peaceniks with suspected ties to the Weather Underground.  When Donny refuses to testify against him, the dirtball snoop sends him back to the Land of Bad Things where Bob Lee (Bob the Nailer) Swagger, lifer on his third tour, recruits him to be his spotter.<br />They're a sniper team working out of \\"Dodge City\\", and in a great action sequence they hold off a North Vietnamese battalion that's about to overrun a stranded unit in the battle of AnLoc.  Just as he makes the reader sympathetic to the anti-war side in the beginning, Hunter can also make you embrace the napalm attack that allows the Hueys to rescue Bob Lee and Donny from almost certain death.  On his last day in Nam and on a mission he was not supposed to go on, Donny is killed by the Russian sniper Solaratov.<br />Bob Lee married Donny's widow Julie in the 90s, overcame a battle with booze and now lives with Julie and their daughter on a ranch in Arizona.  More than a quarter century later Solaratov comes after them there.<br />Bob Lee finds Bonson, the Navy snoop who sent Donny back to Nam, now Deputy Director of the CIA.  He presses him for the Russian connection and also figures that Trig Carter was murdered, but by whom and why?  When Bob lee finally puts all the pieces together, there's some great action including a HALO into the Idaho mountains and a trek though snow in the dark to save his family.  <br />This is right up there with \\"Point of Impact\\" as one of Hunter's best.  If you like audiobooks, Beau Bridges is a great Bob the Nailer.	2002-03-10
US	52808271	R3N9YC4VV3Y8OK	0786867280	908407552	Silent Joe: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Story with T U T	Parker acknowledges he was inspired by Jonathan Lethem and \\"Silent Joe\\" has the good feel of \\"Motherless Brooklyn\\". Parker's version of Lionel Essrog is Joe Trona whose father splashed him with acid at age nine months. Orange County political heavyweight Will Trona and his wife Mary Ann adopt five-year-old Joe. At age twenty-four Joe is as tough as nails, ugly as sin, nice as can be, man of his word, deputy sheriff, county jail guard and man Friday for his adoptive father.<br />Will takes Joe on a mission of mercy to pick up eleven-year-old Savannah who was either kidnapped by her brother Alex or is fleeing their evil father, billionaire developer Jack Blazak. Five Cobra Kings attack them and Will is killed.<br />The supporting cast is great. Blazak and Carl Rupaski, the corrupt Transportation Authority chief, want to sell an unproftable toll road back to the county. Reverend Daniel Alter is a big time TV evangelist who's been caught with the ex-maid now light hooker who is later beaten up and run over by a Chevy Suburban. Bo Warren, the Semper Fi security guy in a red and white '63 Vette, works for Rev. Dan and Blazak and is on the fringe of everything selazy. Radio babe June Dauer gets it on with Joe introducing wild and romantic interests into his otherwise celibate life. Add in the Vietnamese gangbangers, accused cop killer Sammy Nguyen, his girlfriend Bernadette Lee and John Gaylen the Cobra Kings leader and Parker has a great assortment to build a story around.<br />Joe figures out how these lives weave together and the story builds to a great conclusion. In the end we get a bitter-sweet view of Charlotte Wample, Joe's biological mother. What ever else she was, she must have had what Will Trona called \\"TUT\\", that unknown thing that makes certain women irresistable.<br />Great characters and a great story!	2002-03-10
US	52808271	R1SFBMQ5GKUEXE	0316154075	347427189	A Darkness More Than Night	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Old Characters in a Great New Story	Michael Connelly brings back Terry McCaleb from \\"Blood Work\\", retired after a heart transplant, to help Detective Jaye Winston profile the murderer of Edward Gunn who killed a prostitue six years before in \\"The Last Coyote\\".  Harry Bosch investigated the case, Gunn was never prosecuted, and we know from the prologue that Harry visited him in the drunk tank the night before he was killed.<br />A plastic owl on a bookcase looking down on the murder scene points McCaleb to a Renaissance symbol for punishing evil that was also a prominent part of the artwork of Hieronymous Bosch, Harry's namesake.  He and Jaye find a bird repellent business that sells the owls and shipped one to Gunn under the name of van Aiken, Bosch the artist's other name.  Harry, in the meantime, is the key witness at the murder trial of David Storey, a b-movie producer accused of strangling his sex partners and making it look like suicide.  McEvoy, the reporter from \\"The Poet\\" who is covering the trial with an O.J. like army of reporters, gets a tip that Harry's under investigation for the Gunn murders.<br />There's a lot of great action and, as always, people who suspect Harry, but he stays on the trail, which eventually goes to ex-cop Rudy Tafero, now a P.I. and the bail bondsman who sprung Gunn the night he was killed.  The action moves pretty quickly to a Perry Mason-like twist in a packed courtroom.  (Storey's lawyer was named just for the line Connelly has Bosch mutter when the bargain is struck,  \\"that's all Fowkkes\\").  Of course, even after there is at least one more twist to come.<br />I think this was Connelly's best and particularly liked the way he brought old characters into his plot.  Unlike \\"The Last Precinct\\" which Cornwell dragged into boredom trying to tie old characters to a new story, Connelly made it an art form.  Whether or not you knew the old story line or character, the reintroduction played smoothly, often giving a Connelly fan the opportunity to anticipate what bullet from Harry's past would appear next.	2002-03-08
US	52808271	RKV8ZNPA1KE2U	0670030295	360273792	Roscoe	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Ultimate Fixer	Roscoe's a man without a life of his own.  He's the well educated prominent son of a three time Albany mayor but always in the background, second fiddle to Patsy and Elisha but their go-to guy when things need doing and a secondary interest in the life of each major female character. <br />At first I loved the story.  Three boyhood friends from the turn of the century are Albany's local power brokers at the end of WWII.  Patsy McCall who came up the hard way and Elisha Fitzgibbon, Yale grad and grandson of a wealthy industrialist, use their control of just about everything corrupt to support the Democratic machine.  On VJ Day Roscoe Conway tells them he wants to retire.  Then Elisha kills himself, and there's no way out for Roscoe.<br />Kennedy takes the reader back and forth through their lifetimes together.  Roscoe's brother O.B. now police chief, O.B.'s partner Mac, lobbyist Cutie LaRue and Joe the WWI hero now State Senator provide fuel and maintenance for Patsy's machine.  The women are as complex as the men.  Elisha's wife Veronica, her sister Pamela who was married to Roscoe for a week, Mac's girls Gladys and Pina, Hattie the landlord and Mame the madam fit nicely into Kennedy's mosaic.  And speaking of complex, wait 'til you get into the relationship between Patsy and his brother Bindy or O.B. and his partner Mac.<br />The story goes off tempo along the way when Kennedy creates scenes that are too outrageous to keep his characters  real.  In a chapter entitled \\"Negotiable Love\\" Patsy wants to raid a brothel to put Bindy in jail as payback for a scam he pulled.  It's a chapter of depravity, deceit and corruption, which in the end is all twisted by Roscoe to political gain.  Was it supposed to be shocking, funny or what?  It definitely wasn't real.<br />That weakness aside, I couldn't wait to get back to the story to find out where it would take me, often surprised and uncomfortable but not disappointed.  If there's a message here I suppose it's that the sinsof Roscoe and his pals place them beyond redemption, Roscoe will be damned to live alone with them forever and his penance will be to allow Elisha and Veronica's son Alex to become a politician of a new generation.	2002-03-06
US	52808271	REF73NIHVIUUV	0898755972	933384965	The Strange Death of President Harding	Books	3	5	11	N	N	A cross check on three recent novels	Gaston Means was a bagman for Harding's Attorney General Harry Daugherty's Justice Department and a private investigator for Mrs. Harding getting the dope on the President's activities with Nan Britton.  Means kept diaries and told his story to May Dixon Thacker after he got out of jail in 1928.  She seems to have believed him.  The book went through eleven printings from 1930-31, so it must have been a big story then.<br />Net/net, Means protrays Mrs. Harding as a wacko who all but tells him she killed her husband to save him from the gang who manipulated him and the scandal that inevitably broke.  My interest in the book was less about Harding himself but how it relates to three books, \\"Carter Beats the Devil\\", \\"The Jazz Bird\\" and \\"Roscoe\\", all of which touch on the era.  I suggest the following:<br />Harding and \\"The Duchess\\" did not share the romantic feeling Glen David Gold suggests; they hated each other.<br />George Remus probably did pay $500,000 to Daugherty through Jess Smith (who later committed \\"suicide\\" but was probably murdered if you believe Means' intimations).<br />There is as much chance that Gaston Means' story is the whole truth as there would be if William Kennedy's Roscoe told it!	2002-03-06
US	52808271	R33VVLAS8SJN17	0694525014	399419494	Carter Beats the Devil	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Magical, Mystical Tour	Glen David Gold takes the character of Carter the Great, a real magician from the Houdini era, weaves in President Warren G. Harding and Philo Farnsworth the inventor of television to create a wonderful story of deception with stunts we know can't be real but really want to believe...<br />Flashback to 1910 when 22-year-old Charles Carter IV, accepted at Yale, rebelliously heads for vaudeville as a coin and card man.  On tour with the arrogant headliner Mysterioso, Carter upstages him at the San Francisco Orpheum and gets fired.  Then his career is launched when Houdini exposes Mysterioso... and takes Carter under his wing...  All kinds of people are trying to disrupt Carter's life including Secret Service Agents...leading to an exciting finale full of surprises.  This was a great story to listen to on tape.  Both author Gold and reader Tucci deserve 5 stars.	2002-03-04
US	52808271	R1O3GFPLMA2R99	0375506764	529762488	Tepper Isn't Going Out: A Novel	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Murray Tepper:  An Urban Hero	Trillin just nails this character.  I live not in NYC but outside of it, and I confess to spending time on the logistics of parking and a strong preference for a spot on the street vs. a garage.  Heck, you've even got to do it in the suburbs now.<br />The part about using up every second of time on a meter took a little getting used to, but why not.  New York isn't all the rat race pace of getting from here to there.  And as we get on in years, why not enjoy the solitude of sitting in the car reading the paper?  Parking meters are a lot cheaper than hotels, even cheaper than buying a drink and nursing it for a half hour or so.<br />I loved Frank Ducavelli.  He takes us back to before 9/11 when Rudy wasn't the kinder gentler man he later became.  Wasn't it Maureen Dowd who dubbed him &quot;Hizzonor the Hall Monitor&quot;?  I'm surprised he didn't think to make pedestrians hail cabs from the sidewalk, and I guarantee you he won't think this book is funny.<br />If you live in New York or drive into the City often, buy this book and leave it in your car.  If you're parked and waiting for someone or if you've got a little extra time on the meter, take it out and read a chapter or two.  Who knows what might happen next.	2002-03-03
US	52808271	RRIWZGFRBYBOF	0743436733	937496159	The Lions of Lucerne	Books	2	10	13	N	N	Hunter or Flynn Lite	I thought Brad Thor was a pen name, but he thanks his parents who are named Thor so I guess it's real.  Scot Horvath, super skier, Navy Seal now bodyguard to President Rutledge will soon be suspected of engineering the President's disappearance.  This could be a Stephen Hunter plot (who didn't write a blurb for the book jacket) or Vince Flynn (who did), but it's way short of anything they've turned out.<br />The first half sets up the chase.  Gerhard Miner mobilizes the Lions of Lucerne to take out Rutledge's Secret Service detail and kidnap him off the slopes at Deer Valley.  Scot saves the President's daughter and fights the bureaucracy (including a corrupt FBI agent, of course) with his own investigation.  Evil Senators Snyder and Rolander who are in the pocket of fat cat Fawcett set up the snatch.  Sen. Snyder's penchant for killing his studly 20-something boy toys backfires when one gets away and finds Scot, a friend of his old boyfriend's sister.  Scot tells the story to his mentor the Secret Service Director who unfortunately is one of the bad guys.  Bring on the hitmen.  Scot escapes in some pretty good action shootouts and gets to Switzerland.<br />Halftime.<br />Scot goes to Jackie an old skiiing pal who happens to be a friend of Claudia Mueller the Swiss investigator who is after Miner in another case.  Claudia was on the scene when the hit team arrived, Scot thought she was after him, but with Jackie to broker a truce they team up for the final chase.<br />One can't count the impossible escapes, and does the President really believe he's being held captive in the desert when he's in a cave in the Swiss Alps?  I can't believe I bought it, let alone finished it.	2002-03-03
US	52808271	R3V8O20XYNDQPG	0060008725	906069744	Tishomingo Blues	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Top of his game	I love this kind of Elmore Leonard.  He's a master at creating great characters with a little bad boy or girl in all, and he blends them together in a Mississippi backdrop. What could be a preposterous scene at the reenactment of the Battle of Brice's Cross Roads becomes not only plausible but perfectly natural when told by Dutch.<br />Dennis Lenahan the daredevil diver signs on for two shows a day at Billy Darwin's Tishomingo Lodge and Casino.  Charlie Hoke the ex-pitcher who had a cup of coffee with the Tigers and appeared in the '84 Series is Billy's pitboss, runs a \\"let me see your arm\\" sideshow and calls Dennis's 80 foot spectacular dives, always with a baseball analogy.<br />Two guys shoot Floyd the setup man Charlie hired, and Dennis sees it all from his 80 foot perch.  Robert Taylor also saw the hit.  He's a hip black Detroit version of Chili Palmer whose great granddaddy was lynched by an ancestor of Mr. Kirkbride (maybe), the guy building the immobile mobile home parks that populate the area.  Add in Vernice, once Charlie's \\"girlfriend\\" now Dennis's landlord and more, Arlen Novis the ex-deputy, ex-con now Dixie Mafia guy and CIB investigator Jerry Rau, and the plot begins to take shape.<br />Robert is down from Detroit with Jerry (Caesare Germano Mularoni) to move in on the lucrative drug business of Novis and Kirkbride.  Each side plans to use the reenactment to lure the other into the woods to finish them off.<br />A lot of great set up, but cutting to the chase...  Fish, Arlen's triggerman shoots Eugene's dog.  Jacked on shine and ready for the battle, they shoot each other.  Their buddy Newton the racist with the tobacco stained beard sees it all.<br />\\"Jesus Christ.\\"<br />Then Kirkbride shoots Arlen, just like Robert figured it would happen.<br />\\"Jesus Christ.\\"<br />In the final clean up, Hector and Tonto, a couple of Robert's boys from Detroit.... well, there's still enough left so I won't spoil the climax.<br />One line from Arlen's widow Loretta captures the essence of Dennis.  \\"God you're a daredevil and your're fun.  You aren't the least bit stuck on yourself.\\"<br />How will the good guy Dennis get out of the life of crime his buddy Robert is offering?  Or will he?<br />I loved it, doubt the movie will be anywhere near as good and hope there's a sequel.	2002-03-03
US	52808271	R3VR1KK2ASWF2H	0312269595	734957500	The Tin Collectors	Books	2	2	9	N	N	Cannell's a way better screenwriter than novelist	This story gets way too much into police procedures and jargon, and the timelines and details are all screwed up.  LAPD Sgt. Shane Scully kills his ex-partner Ray \\"Steel Tooth\\" Molar, a super sleaze who is canonized by his fellow cops.  Molar was beating his wife, who is also Shane's ex-girlfriend, with a billy club when Shane intervened.  There's a \\"Johnny Dangerously\\" play ball scene in the Chief's office as a highly political, corrupt process is about to steamroll the befudled Shane. <br />Ex-cop Demarco Saint, now a tattooed, pony tailed, earring wearing, beer guzzling old pedophile living in a shack in Santa Monica, reappears to defend Shane.  Sheets, and ex-cop as bad as Molar is head of security for a mega bucks developer who's running hooker parties and blackmailing the Long Beach City Council to turn over the old Navy Yard to his company.  <br />Everyone from the Mayor through the Deputy Chief seems to be railroading Shane.  His house is machine-gunned and he's kidnapped by helicopter form a movie shoot.  Impetuous and vulnerable, the character has potential, but the endless chapters of impossible situations, each chapter titled in a phrase of cop jargon, make this a comic book.  That holds true right to the end where after some pretty good shoot 'em up stuff, Alexa and Shane go from Bonnie and Clyde to national heroes.<br />I'll pass on his new one.	2002-03-03
US	52808271	RO92OJXKPV8A8	0446516570	265598858	Up Country: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Paul and Susan's Unlikely Adventure	It's right up there with \\"The Lion's Game\\" as the best of DeMille.  Paul Brenner is back, more like John Corey than his former self in \\"The General's Daughter\\".  His ex-boss Karl Hellmann lures him out of retirement to go back to Nam and investigate a 30-year-old murder.  Karl tells Paul a US Captain shot a US Lieutenant and that a VC soldier saw it.  Paul has every reason to walk away, but then there'd be no story.<br />There's a lot of ink about Viet Nam today, but the critics who say it drags the story down miss the point. The contrast between then and now and how Brenner discovers and reacts to it are at the heart of the book.  The real reason for Brenner's \\"mission\\", when it comes, provides the second half of a great one-two punch.<br />Susan Weber is a bit of a stretch, too cool and too perfect, but by the end of Book III she's even more intriguing, the Viet Nam stuff still works for me and there are still 400 pages to go.<br />Col. Mang the Vietnamese intelligence guy who is not a fan of Brenner reappears near the end of Book V, and some real heated in-your-face exchanges follow.  When Paul and Susan find Tran Van Vinh,  a duty roster among Vinh's souvenirs shows Paul who the killer was 30 years ago, and a great end game begins.  100 pages to go and Paul and Susan are in Hanoi aggravating Mang more than ever, a sure bet to be heading for the torture room until Paul tells Mang that they'll be missed at the Ambassador's VIP reception.  Mang now realizes who the murderer was, too.  In a great twist, his and Brenner's interests are aligned, and Brenner tells him, \\"You have the evidence and you have Tran Van Vinh.  But be careful.  You have a tiger by the tail.\\"<br />All in all it's as good as \\"The Lion's Game\\" but with the same reservation, the ending.  It's abrupt leaving the reader to think about a whole bunch of more interesting scenarios.  But hey, after 700 pages, I guess he had to wrap it up somehow.	2002-03-03
US	52808271	R3HOOV9LIML2EC	1572701714	436502926	Typhoon	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A 1903 Classic Novel of the Sea	Great narration on the audio book captures the British and Scottish dialects, but it's so smooth that it's easy to be lulled into dreamland.  I had to go back to the excerpts on Amazon and replay parts of the tape to catch the true impact of Conrad's words.<br />Captain Mac Whirr, a short, fat, dull but dependable seaman, commands the Nan-Shan for a Siamese merchant firm.  He writes twelve letter a year to his uncaring wife and has two children who barely know him.  During typhoon season in the China Sea Jukes the first mate tells the Captain to change course to avoid the looming storm, but Mac Whirr will think of nothing but forging straight ahead.  The Captain and Jukes as well as Solomon Rout the chief engineer (Long Sol, Old Sol or father Rout to his shipmates and Solomon Sez to his wife who quotes pearls of wisdom from his letters to anyone who'll listen) and the Bosun are at the center of the crisis that follows.<br />During a storm like no other the actions of everyman are almost predetermined by their biases, intrenched beliefs and in some cases ability to react.  In six short chapters Conrad develops a great story of how different men behave in a fight for survival.<br />The tale of the last leg is told in pieces from letters home.  The Captain's letter is barely read by his wife who has no idea what happened.  Solomon's is sentimental and cherished by his beloved.  Jukes reveals the most.  Unsurprisingly we find that Captain Mac Whirr wasn't so dumb after all.<br />It would probably be better read than listened to and deserves at least four stars for the classic it is.	2002-03-03
US	52808271	R1KBM06Q4Z5DJZ	0970214707	155025532	Too Dead To Swing	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Bad Choice	Katy Green an accomplished violinist and sax player joins the Ultra Belles, an all girl swing band touring California in 1940, and they start dropping dead around her.  The multi voice audio play narration comes across more like a soap opera.  The retro to 1940 is interesting, and I enjoyed Manny the Brit talent agent who can spin a story with the best of them.  But the lame whodunit murders and too little music for a musical killed my interest.<br />It gets worse!  Wait 'til you find out who the murder is.  Better yet, don't bother.  Take a pass on this one.	2002-03-03
US	52808271	R2ZBE00OBROEUP	0060196254	751205471	The Associate	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Vintage Margolin	Title character Daniel Ames was abused and abandoned as a kid, is now a workaholic naive sad sack around whom Margolin builds his story.  Manipulative associate Susan Webster sweet talks Danny into reviewing five boxes of discovery for the Geller Pharmaceutical deposition to begin at 8AM the next day.  Their drug Insufort, prescribed for pregnant women is alleged to cause birth defects.  When plaintiff's lawyer Aaron Flynn discovers a damning memo from Dr. Sergey Kaidanov in the files Danny reviewed, all hell breaks loose.  Danny is fired by the hard-nosed Arthur Briggs of Reed, Briggs et. al., then called to meet him at an isolated cabin where Briggs is murdered and Danny is charged. <br />Meanwhile ex-cop and current investigator Kate Ross teams up with Danny to discover the murder and torch job at a Geller research facility no one knew about.  The body they thought was Kaidanov was actually a lawyer from Arizona.  Kate goes to Desert Grove, AZ where used car king Martin Alvarez tells her a story of kidnappings and murders seven years earlier.  This will all soon tie together.<br />Kate brings in Amanda Jaffe from \\"Wild Justice\\" to defend Danny. She gets bail for him just before he's to be wiped out by the skinheads in his lockup. Kaidanov, who's escaped certain assassination twice so far, meets Danny in a graveyard and tells him the study was a phony.  Oops, this time the sniper gets him.<br />There are all kinds of head fakes about who's guilty of what.  Despite Daniel the wimp and more killing than WW III, Margolin holds your interest with a symmetrical web that ties it all together.  I liked it.	2002-03-03
US	52808271	R70LI08YN24A9	157270232X	846119168	The Final Deduction	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Gluttony Pays	This was my first stab at Nero Wolfe the towering 285lb detective who works out of his West 35th Street brownstone with sidekick and narrator Archie Goodwin, a man gifted with total recall of all he hears, sees or reads.  Circa 1961 Althea Vail, widow of super rich Harold Tedder, gets a $500,000 ransom demand for Jimmy her dashing second husband, twelve years her junior.  Wolfe interviews Althea's striking and tight-lipped secretary Dinah Utley whom he believes typed the ransom note.  Dinah's dead before the next dawn.<br />Wolfe is arrogant, overbearing and unapologetic about how little he has to actually do for his outrageous fees.  Both he and Archie are keenly insightful, precise and direct in anything they say though not particularly forthcoming.  So they don't tell the police about the kidnapping, their suspicions of Dinah or how it ties to her death until the proscribed time two days later. <br />In the intirim Jimmy is found dead in the Howard F. Tedder library under a bronze statue of Ben Franklin.  Noel Tedder Althea's son comes to Wolfe to recover the ransom money.  Wolfe accepts his proposal and declares the murderer is one of those in the library with Jimmy - Althea, her children, her brother or her lawyer. <br />The story then follows a path that only the genius Wolfe can foresee until the murderer is finally exposed.  Enjoy the nostalgia of an Underwood with multiple carbons instead of Microsoft Word and postal zones not zip codes, but don't expect anything logical or realistic in the plot.  Michael Prichard, audio book reader, projects the bulk and arrogance of Wolfe in a delightful narration.  This was an entertaining story to listen to, though I suspect it would have been somewhat tedious to read.	2002-03-03
US	52808271	R2ZHQWTNV88HMO	0743520351	486506073	The Jazz Bird: A Novel	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Revisionist history, but a good story anyway	Fascinating!  I never heard of George Remus the bootlegging king of Cincinnati who made millions in the mid-twenties when he was as big as Al Capone.  Though Fitzgerald denied it, many believe Remus was the model for Gatsby.  Remus' wife Imogene was not the young socialite Holden portrays but a 35-year-old secretary who dumped her first husband for him.  History says she teamed up with \\"Untouchable\\" Frank Dodge, and the two of them siphoned off his fortune while George was doing time.<BR>              <BR>The murder, how Charlie Taft handled the trial and the result are said to be spot on, though Holden creates his own details and the characters are more of his mold than history's.  Because Imogene is unabashedly like Daisy Buchannan the story feels more like a knock off of Fitzgerald than biographical fiction.<br />George kills Imogene in \\"rush hour\\" (was there such a thing in 1927?) and takes a cab to the police station.  After one night in a cold cell he's treated to VIP digs by the sheriff who tells George his two boys went to college on money from his business.  He will defend himself telling the press he's not crazy but all the while acting like he is.  His co-counsel Elston first gets George's chauffeur Babe to recount the statement that the prosecution beat out of him, then parades a bunch of people who describe how both Imogene and Dodge were driving George to his erratic behavior.<br />Holden's version is that Imogene only hooked up with Dodge to benefit Remus, but that story line is off base.  It might have worked in a different kind of novel, but it creates an unpalatable smorgasbord in this one.<br />I gave it 4 stars because it was woth listening to (I did the audio tape version), but using a real life event to prop up an outrageous story line offended me, particularly when Imogene and her \\"love story\\" were bogus given the facts that are known about the murder.	2002-03-03
US	52808271	R25KFZBWZZM23P	158060059X	352579083	The Tailor of Panama	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Classic Spy Spoof	Harry Pendel of Pendel and Braithwaite, formerly of Savile Row now of Panama city is at heart a good guy but not the tailor to royalty he purports to be.  Andrew Osnard, a fat lothario and adaptable rogue from a declining upper-crust family, was bounced from Eton and joined \\"the spys\\" realizing that his options to make big money respectably were limited.<br />Harry, a Cockney ex-con and illegitimate son of a Jewish con-man and his Irish maid, was sprung from an orphanage by his Uncle Bernie who both used him to torch his garment business and looked after him as a youth.  Though the pedigree of his firm is bogus, Harry is the top tailor in Panama with access to everyone who's anyone and is married to Louisa, the statuesque daughter of the respected assistant to the incorruptible head of the Canal Commission.<br />Osnard can't get a banker, businessman or reporter to be his \\"listening post\\" in Panama and convinces his boss Scotty Luxmore, the spook who bungled the Falkland Islands War, that Harry's their man. Harry needs the money and signs on.  The Brits are looking to uncover a huge Japanese conspiracy to take over Panama, and Harry will tell them anything he thinks they want to hear, most of which he just makes up.<br />A series of misadventures, some funny some tragic, precipitate an American invasion.  The Brits all leave in varying degrees of affluence or disfavor, and Harry walks off into the night.<br />I would have preferred a different ending, but loved the story.	2002-03-03
US	52808271	R1ULQEK2PVJC2F	0694524964	384682637	The Vendetta Defense	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Pigeon Readers	Judy Carrier, a blonde law review member of Bennie Rosato's all woman law firm, takes the case of Pigeon Tony Lucia, a 79-year-old South Philly guy who killed his life long enemy Angelo Coluzzi.  Unfortunately, everything is overdone, especially Judy's independent investigations in the face of Coluzzi family reprisals.<br />A cast of ethnic characters, Tony Two Feet, Tony from down the block, friend Mary DiNunzio's parents and Coluzzi's gofer Fat Jimmy Belloo and his ex-wife Maureen, add some spice to the story.  The trial is ridiculous with some obvious miscues by either author or reader (I'm reviewing the unabridged audio version) on what objecton was waged by whom.  Judy out maneuvers an obnoxious prosecutor, but Pigeon Tony insists on speaking his piece and things get complicated.<br />In the end Judy and Tony's hunk of a grandson Frank resume the romance that started on the case, but Lisa Scottoline will have to find someone else to buy the sequel.	2002-03-03
US	52808271	R1L4B79DNKYPJS	0553714856	628573598	Basket Case	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Rock music is one nasty business	I chose the audio book version for this one, and Hiaasen's voice is no match for his pen.  A better reader would have made a difference.  <br />Jimmy Stomarti, a.k.a. Jimmy Stoma of the Slut Puppies, a 39-year-old bad boy rock star who has been clean for nine years dies in a diving accident.  Florida obit writer and fan Jack Tagger sets out to tell his story, first interviewing Jimmy's 22-year-old wife Cleo Rio who is more into her budding career than the role of a grieving widow.  The aging owner of Jack's paper who sold out to a chain, the head of which demoted Jack to the obit page for embarrassing him in a meeting, insists that Jack be prepared to write the mother of all obituaries when he goes.  (He's been at death's door for years and may out live them all.)  Jack agrees only if he can spend a week investigating Jimmy's death which we all know will turn out to be a murder.<br />Widow Cleo is getting it on with Jay Burns the keyboard guy and Lorieal the record producer, and they're all franticly looking for the track to Jimmy's unpublished comeback album.<br />The action is implausible but funny (of course, it's Hiaasen), but the premise as to what happened and why is off the wall.  I love Hiaasen, but this one only gets 4 stars, barely.	2002-03-03
US	52808271	R1B1J88NTWXAPL	1587888793	48077056	Full Court Press	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Great banter, fun characters, but...	Lupica's got a great ear for the banter of the game and the City.  He needed every bit of it to penetrate the blanket of intense namedropping, a syncophantic suck-up to Imus (Mo Jiggy in an Imus ranch hat) and overreaching for similes and metaphors (how does Earthwind snort the GNP of a city, Mike, and what is a \\"Gulfstream ex\\"?).  I had it at 4 stars most of the way, but the last third really bogged down.<br />Eddie Holtz, jock with a blown out knee now scouting for the NY Knights (how many times has that set up been used?) discovers Dee Girard at a charity game in Monaco.  She's the ultra cool 32-year-old daughter NY playground legend Cecil \\"Cool Daddy\\" Cody and the beautiful Swedish dancer Cool Daddy hooked up with in the late 60s.  Eddie thinks she's as good as any point guard in the NBA, and Knights owner Michael De la Cruz sees headlines and ticket sales.<br />Some great characters:  Knights Coach Bobby Carlino is a blatant composite of Rick Pitino and PJ Carlessimo complete with a bad boy player shoving his whistle down his throat when the coach lets his team rough Dee up.  Eddie brings in Mo Jiggy, rap star turned sports agent from \\"Bump and Run\\", and the partnership of two super bright street-smart kids from the hood is born.<br />The last 40% or so isn't really a plot but a bunch of games, name dropping and trivia (like the female AAU phenom from the 50s who drops in on Dee in Minneapolis).  The real story of Cool Daddy comes out.  So what if he's more of a hustler than a hoopster, but bringing him back from the dead was a little much.<br />It had some great dialogue, fun characters but a little too much junk in between to make it a top tier story.	2002-03-02
US	52808271	R3435U50DPJ6ID	0316666009	30029813	1st to Die (Women's Murder Club)	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Chicks as Dics	Patterson sets a great pace with 3-4 page chapters.  Lindsay Boxer, a homicide detective battling a form of leukemia, Cindy the cub reporter for the San Francisco Chronicle and Claire the black Medical Examiner bond together in pursuit of a viscous murderer preying on newlyweds.  Chris Raleigh, headquarters liaison cop assigned to partner with Lindsay, becomes her confidant and lover.  <br />...<br />The second twist is a little much, but all in all I rate it among Patterson's best.  Can't wait for \\"2nd Chance\\".	2002-03-02
US	52808271	R2FBWLTAZO7GF8	0375416676	330117464	The Kill Artist	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Waiter, did you tip the honey?	Daniel Silva's story is set amid the Palestinian-Israeli conflict where patriots on both sides become zealots driven by the unspeakable inhumanities they suffered.  Gabriel Allon, a crack Israeli agent and world class art restorer, comes out of retirement to nail Tariq, the Palestinian terrorist who killed Gabriel's wife and son years before.  Ari Shamron, his cold Machiavellian mentor who is running the super secret operation, offers up Jacqueline de la Quoi, born Sarah Halevy and granddaughter of Jews executed in the Holocaust.<br />Gabriel recruits Jacqueline to seduce Yosef, Tariq's contact.  She's madly in love with Gabriel, guilty about the death of his family and accepts the assignment so she can get close to him.  Tariq realizes she's and agent and plots a suicide mission that will draw all the players in.  Jacqueline becomes Tariq's traveling companion, and the end game begins.<br />The action moves through Montreal to the US where Arafat and the Israeli Prime Minister are in town for a breakthrough in the peace process.  CIA guy Adrian Carter, sleazy President Beckwith and former Ambassador / Senator Douglas Cannon from \\"The Marching Season\\" all have bit parts.  Tariq disguised as a waiter delivering Arafat's prized honey is armed and alone in a room with him.<br />Read on to find out who shoots whom and what Shamron was really up to.  The control guy in a Silva novel always has ulterior motives, though Shamron's duplicity is nothing compared to Sir Basil Boothby in \\"The Unlikely Spy.\\"  <br />All in all, I think this was Silva's best.	2002-03-02
US	52808271	R2LH60N7S37S4J	0399147624	912786438	Gunman's Rhapsody	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Spenser & Hawk in a time warp	Great story!  I had trouble with the chronology leading up to the 1881 shootout and agree with the critics that the somewhat random Chronicles from the day of the battle detract from the story.  But Parker more than makes up for this by puting a Spenser-like taciturn toughness around Wyatt and building the solid relatonship among the five brothers and between Wyatt and Josie Marcus.  The politics of Tombstone are believable with the devious but effective Johnny Behan a real character, not just the stereotypical power broker of Western lore.  It's better than a Spenser story because the character is constrained by historical fact and not cast in the often outrageous extremes of a Parker plot.<br />Parker's Earp can get along with anyone, even the ranchers / rustlers like Johnny Ringo, part of a group who are Southern, ranchers and Democrat as opposed to ex-Union and town folk like the Earps.  Is the final showdown in March 1882 real?  Wyatt has killed Curley Bill, and Behan shows up with a posse and a warrant.  While everyone pretends Wyatt's not there, Ringo stares him down and asks if he killed Curley Bill.<br />\\"I did\\"<br />\\"Always knew it would turn out like this.  Now I'm going to have to kill you.\\"<br />\\"If you can.\\"<br />Later Wyatt finds Ringo drunk sitting under a tree.  Too noble to have it out with a drunk, he walks away, then turns and fires when he hears the draw at his back.<br />An interesting postscript:  Wyatt and Josie move on to LA where Wyatt dies at age 80 in 1929.  Josie and Virgil's wife Allie live into the 1940s.	2002-03-02
US	52808271	RM3LATU9476NH	0517574985	144375891	Cleopatra Gold	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Great build up, lousy ending	Alejandro Monahan is the son of a NY cop and Mexican Indian mother.  The old man \\"retired\\" to raise his family in the Baja and was killed by drug lords tied to the title drug.  Alejandro is now a sexy club singer and also Chilebean, a deep cover agent with the NYPD looking to avenge his father's death.  <br />Ther characters are great:  Che-Che, Roberto Barrios and Pizzaro on the drug side; Too Tall Paulie, Sal Elia and Joey the G-man for the cops.  You're never sure who's the real boss is or where the line between undercover agents and the drug business is drawn.  Amidst a lot of action Alejandro convinces Che-Che he can guarantee safe importation of heroine using a military guided parachute technology.<br />With 100 pages to go, the shipment has landed and the multiple Cleopatra lines develop:  the drug, the queen and a woman whose father called her that.  I had it at five stars until the end, which was just too Hollywood and dropped it down to four.  A lousy ending, but an otherwise great cop / druggie story.	2002-03-02
US	52808271	R24O71DJATS3NV	1587883554	936865739	A Murder of Honor	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Revenge of The Nerds	Frank Kearney and Jose Phelps two veteran D.C. detectives have been buddies since their first day on the force more than twenty years ago.  They're assigned a \\"no win\\" case, the murder of activist priest Fr. O'Brien, victim of and apparent drive-by shooting.  When they discover a bunch of gay literature in the good father's quarters and $500,000 in cash in his closet, the case take on a different smell.  <br />A red Beemer turns up in an auto compactor with one body in the trunk and a second on top of the car, decapitated.  The headless one would be Henry, a guard for Jarvis Security, run by ex-cop Solomon Jarvis.  Henry made $15 / hour, drove a 500 SL and was killed by two shots from a 22 similar to the one that killed Fr. O'Brien.<br />Frank and Jose tie it all to control of the drug trade in a hot corner of Washington.  A Marion Berry-like Malcolm Burridge raises hell, chief of homicide Randolph Emerson slithers around trying to look good and DC City Treasurer Simmons tells a sleazy investigative reporter that Fr. O'Brien could have been an embezzler.  Frank Kearney's belief in Fr. O'B is punctuated by the author's reference to Ray Donovan's lament after being falsely accused.<br />The plot builds to three made for TV-like action shootouts, the last of which occurs when Frank and Jose run a scam that pits the two bad guys against each other.  The good guys win in the end, of course, and with a surprisingly satisfying avenging act.<br />I liked it a lot!	2002-03-02
US	52808271	R28766O2IJYM9P	0679453067	668170725	Pursuit: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A little too much Spy v. Spy	My first by Thomas Perry.  Great pace and suspense, but the killing and Spy vs. Spy pursuit scenes take reality completely out of the picture (and a ridiculous typo on page 155 takes the proofreaders down a peg as well).  <br />Thirteen people are killed in a Louisville restaurant.  Ex-cop now law professor Dan Milliken believes Bobby Cushner was the target.  Bobby's wealthy father wants Milliken to find the killer.  Reluctantly, he calls Roy Prescott, a mysterious manhunter who operates on the edge.<br />They profile the killer right away - James Varney a twenty-something reject who first killed a cranky aunt at age 11.  Varney's provoked to call his pursuer Prescott on p. 34 (really?), and the chase is on.<br />The first two rounds go to Varney who flies to LA and kills two cops.  The rest of the way Prescott, who's pushing 60 by the way but seems to have superhuman stamina, has Varney dead to rights a bunch of times, but Varney manages a series of impossible escapes.  <br />In the end there are 25 or so corpses strewn from coast to coast.  Two &quot;final&quot; showdowns cap a sequence of great action scenes, but truthfully they'd fit more in a comic book than a novel.	2002-03-02
US	52808271	RZPZUC036B4DW	0345428080	831243969	Crisis Four	Books	5	2	3	N	N	An action hero who is so real it's scary	Andy McNab is a former British Special Operations Agent who has written both fact and fiction.  Nick Stone, McNab's alter ego of sorts, is sent to track down fellow counter terrorist agent and former lover Sarah Greenwood who is in the U.S. and may have gone to the other side.  He goes to a redneck supply store and a WalMart to stock up for a night of recon and spots Sarah and an Arab looking dude coming out of a lakeside retreat the next day. <br />I trust that McNab didn't do everything Nick Stone does, but his SAS Elite and most decorated Brit soldier background make Nick the most credible of the current genre of super agents.  The human side of Nick the assassin, who is totally competent in the field yet so easily manipulated, and McNab's descriptions of the mundane details of surveillance and pursuit make Nick seem real.  British slang and lingo unfamiliar to the reader create a crystal clear picture when spoken by Nick.  On page 160 he's ordered to kill Sarah.  Twenty-five pages later he's dragging her through the Carolina woods dodging choppers (helis), dogs and automatic weapons.<br />The flaws in the plot match the flaws in Nick and balance out to a huge leg up on Ludlum, Clancy, Follett et al.  It's also kind of cool that the title doesn't come into play until page 345.  \\"Crisis Four\\" is one of four command posts in the White House where the good guys and the bad guys will ultimately sort out.	2002-03-02
