US	52803202	R2XYFLTCB1LUR6	158240416X	757477960	The Gift Volume 1: Choices	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Interesting, but doesn't live up to the hype	This vaguely reminded me of the first 100 Bullets volume in that it was a bunch of unconnected stories about people being gifted with something they could use to take revenge/defend themselves/etc.  In both cases, if it wasn't for the good reviews, I wouldn't be interested in picking up future volumes.  Kirkham's artwork wasn't nearly as polished as it was on the recent Strykeforce mini.  It reminded me an awful lot of the rookie pencillers doing work in the early Image days like Anthony Winn and Marat Mychaels.  Gregory's narration seemed a bit heavy handed at times, but his dialogue was pretty good.  So, in summation, I have no idea where this book is going, but am almost intrigued enough to pick up the next trade.	2005-09-01
US	52803202	R31MWJP6JDS9C8	0446607460	942586499	Diplomacy of Wolves (Secret Texts)	Books	4	10	12	N	N	A well written book that promises a good trilogy	Having never read any of Holly Lisle's work, I came into this book unsure of what to expect.  The premise sounded interesting, but I've been disappointed before.  I'm happy to say that this is not the case here.  The world and its history are well thought out, the magic systems are interesting, and the characters are intriguing and well developed.  The plot is definitely engaging and the book flows well overall.<br />I think the thing that grabbed my attention the most was Lisle's worldbuilding.  I'm a sucker for history in a fantasy book that has been forgotten by most of the characters.  I enjoy learning about that history along with them.  Lisle comes through in spades here.  A Wizard War a thousand years ago that killed of most of humanity and mutated a large number to boot?  And the current population has no memory of this, except for a select few?  Very nice.  Not only that, but Ms. Lisle has also apparently done quite a bit of work in developing the every day things for this world:  a daily clock with names for each hour; the naming conventions for days of the week, months, and years; as well as religious and governmental institutions.  All make for a very convincing world in which to explore the story being told.<br />A lot of times, after spending so much time developing the world, authors tend to come up with one dimensional characters to populate it.  That is definitely not the case here.  Each main character, and there are at least four, has their own personality quirks, their own fears, their own weaknesses, and, most importantly, their own personality.  What's interesting is how Ms. Lisle uses each to affect the other.  Her dialogue flows well and the characters interactions are, for the most part, believable.<br />Lisle also has a very good grasp of pacing.  Enough action to keep the reader on the edge of their seat, but not so much that there is no character development.  She intersperses her action scenes with down time that is used study her characters or to uncover a bit more of the world's past or to explain the magic systems or any of a number of other things that make the book enjoyable and well rounded, rather than one big action scene.<br />Overall, I have to say I am very impressed with this author.  Not  enough for a five star review, but enough that I will eventually track down some of her other books and definitely finish this trilogy.  Well written and with interesting characters, it's definitely something that I'm sure I will continue to enjoy beyond the first book.	2004-01-28
US	52803202	R2LKNL0039DD0I	0312858868	949121248	The Prestige	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Different and enjoyable	I wasn't really sure what to expect coming into this book.  The blurbs on the back are kind of vague, but the positive reviews got me to pick it up.  Now I understand why the cover blurb is so vague:  it is very difficult to describe the plot of this book.  The most general way, without giving away too much, would be to explain that it is the story of two stage magicians in turn of the century (the last century, that is:  1900) England who end up in a feud that escalates in unexpected directions.  At the heart of the novel is a mystery, one which the reader is not fully revealed until the last 50 pages of the book.  This book won the World Fantasy Award, but I found that it leans more towards sci-fi rather than fantasy.  It's sci-fi written in a style that is reminiscent of HG Wells which, considering the time period in which the majority of the book takes place, adds to the flavor of the story.<br />What drives the book forward is its interesting characters.  Throughout the book, the reader encounters four (possibly five, depending on how you look at it) narrators, all told in the first person, be it standard first person narration or from diary entries.  On top of this, two of the narrators live in the late 19th century while the other two are from the present day, which serves to heighten the central mystery.  Priest does an excellent job of giving each character their own voice and motivations.  <br />As the feud between the two characters living in the 1880s escalates, the reader feels directly involved in the rising tensions and the desparate race of each man to uncover the other's secrets.  We also see how this affects the narrators in the present day who happen to be descendants of the earlier two.  While the plot itself is carefully unfolded throughout the book, the payoff in the reveal of the secret suddenly jumps out at the reader as the book begins to wind down.  Unfortunately, I got the impression that the book ended before the story of the two modern narrators was finished.  I would have liked that story to be tied up a bit more neatly.  Here we have this big reveal to the two descendants, but then not much is done with it.<br />All in all, however, this is a very worthwhile book.  I enjoyed the atmosphere that Priest created and was thoroughly engaged by the characters.  If you're looking for something different than the standard fantasy fare on the shelves, this book will definitely sate you.	2003-12-01
US	52803202	R3TRA1BFFIU5KG	0786913363	68626434	The Rose and the Skull (Dragonlance Bridges of Time, Vol. 4)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Enjoyable	While I didn't think this was quite a four star book, I felt it was closer to four than three stars.  Crook gives us a very interesting look at the Solamnic Knights and the poor condition they find themselves in after the departure of the gods and the subsequent arrival of the great dragons.  It seems both the Solamnic Knighthood, as well as the Knights of Takhisis, have fallen on hard times with the arrivial of these dragon overlords.  They are grasping at straws and, in desperation, decide to do something that would otherwise be unthinkable for both sides (don't want to spoil it).  The story is told from the point of view of the Solamnics and we get to see their struggle between doing what they commander feels is the right thing and what they feel in their hearts they should be doing.  Mixed in among this is the courageous adventure of an unusual gully dwarf and his companions.<br />The characters populating this story were fairly well developed, including a dark elf that fascinated me.  I was disappointed to find that he plays no role in Weis &amp; Hickman's subsequent WAR OF SOULS trilogy.  The two or three Solamnics that we get to meet are all different and are loyal to the Knighthood and their commander in their own way.  The gully dwarf character has traits that make him more than just a regular gully dwarf:  honor and loyalty drive him to attempt a task that no other gully dwarf would ever undertake.<br />The plot is interesting and action packed, with the aforementioned plan between the Solamnics and the Knights of Takhisis being the main plot device to propel the story.  I would be very happy if Crook at some point wrote a sequel series to this book using the same characters so that we can see how they have progressed.  Not a great book, mind you, but definitely worth a read if your a Dragonlance fan.	2003-09-03
US	52803202	R12RGMSG5PO7A4	0786913150	812067604	The Silver Stair (Dragonlance Bridges of Time, Vol. 3)	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Frustrating characters	Having read Rabe's DRAGONS OF A NEW AGE trilogy and now this, I've come to the conclusion that she has a difficult time writing characters that act like actual people would.  This tended to improve as the aforementioned trilogy progressed, but it was terrible in this book.  What I mean by this is, if something strange or suspicious occurs, most people would stop and question it.  However, Rabe's characters tend to blithely continue on with what they were doing and don't give it a second thought.  Very very frustrating to read when you know that it needs to be questioned.  It's as if Ms. Rabe just wants to get where she's going and she completely disregards the fact that she needs to make her characters act like normal people in order to make them believable.  This makes it very difficult to become emotionally involved with either the characters or the story.  I'm guessing that this is one of her early works because, by the third book of DRAGONS OF A NEW AGE, her characters were behaving more reasonably.<br />The other thing about this book that caused me to dislike it so much was the fact that her main elf character, Gair, didn't act  like an elf at all.  He was impatient, impetuous, and, for someone who claimed to be a scholar in the field of magic, tended to jump right in to doing something without even considering the consequences.  These characteristics are all the complete opposite of those describing an elf.  They are more along the lines of a human.  If you're going to create a character and assign them a race and you want them to be believable, they have to have at least some of the characteristics of that race.  Gair seemed to have none.  I felt no sympathy for him whatsoever.  I am sure this was not Rabe's intent, but she fell completely flat in attempting to make me connect with the character.<br />Finally, since Gair was such an integral part of the plot and Ms. Rabe was forcing him into acting so unlike an elf, the whole story just seemed to contrived.It was simply a way of establishing Goldmoon's Citadel of Light for use in subsequent books.  A story had to be created to put these pieces into place.  The bad characterization just made it blatantly obvious to the reader that the whole point of the book was to get to the ending point.  Unfortunately, Rabe's handling of the characters just made the journey unpleasant and unbelievable.<br />It was a decent story, but nothing to get excited about.  The execution could have been light years better.  Unless you're a hardcore Dragonlance fan, you can probably skip this book and not miss much (if anything).	2003-08-19
US	52803202	RR8EPWVL546GL	0786911875	87006062	Legacy of Steel (Dragonlance Bridges of Time, Vol. 2)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Decent, but nothing to rave about	Unlike the first book in this series (Chris Pierson's SPIRIT OF THE WIND), this book doesn't have a compelling plot that draws the reader into the book.  There is a bare semblance of a plot, but nothing truly engaging.  It's about Sara Dunstan's (Steel Brightblade's foster mother) infiltration of the regrouped Knights of Takhisis.  Herbert tells this story with no real goal observable to the reader.  There is an ultimate goal of the book, but it's really just to set up a story element that will appear in subsequent books in the Dragonlance universe.<br />The big redeeming quality of this book is the character of Sara Dunstan.  Readers were first introduced to her in Weis &amp; Hickman's THE SECOND GENERATION and we saw more of her in their DRAGONS OF SUMMER FLAME.  This book fleshes here character out much more than those two did.  Since the book is told from her point of view, we get to observe the various facets of her character.  This is important since I get the feeling that she will be playing a larger role down the road, possibly in Weis &amp; Hickman's War of Souls trilogy (which I have yet to read).<br />The writing in the book was solid, although the supporting characters all seemed pretty one dimensional.  The new general of the Knights of Takhisis was kind of interesting and it would be neat to see her fleshed out in another book at some point.  Herbert does a good job of telling the story and getting to the point where the necessary things (I don't want to ruin things for people who haven't read it yet) are established for use in later books.  I just wasn't engrossed in the story since there wasn't much of a plot to get involved in.  Decent book and Dragonlance fans might find it useful in understanding these new concepts that I'm not mentioning.  If you're not a completist, though, you can probably skip it and not miss out on much.	2003-08-12
US	52803202	RJA2Q76L4DVPF	0786911743	759821598	Spirit of the Wind (Dragonlance Bridges of Time, Vol. 1)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	The best since Weis &amp; Hickman	First off, I have to say that this is probably the best written Dragonlance book I've read outside of Weis &amp; Hickman's work.  Most impressive is Pierson's strong grasp of the characters.  Riverwind was handled brilliantly and I liked how he gave the different kender separate personalities and didn't make them carbon copies of Tasslehoff like many other authors do.  His pacing was also excellent, with enough &quot;down time&quot; for character development in between fight scenes, but not so much that the story starts to drag.<br />I was disappointed when, in THE SECOND GENERATION, Riverwind and Goldmoon's children were mentioned, but we never got to meet them.  This book rectifies that problem.  Taking place after the Chaos War, this book tells the story of Riverwind's journey to Kendermore to help the kender stave off an ogre invasion.  As stated earlier, the book is very well written and paced, but doesn't shy away from killing off characters.  It makes for a very dark book helping to set up the new status quo in Ansalon after the disappearance of both the gods and their magic.  Unfortunately, I read Jean Rabe's DRAGONS OF A NEW AGE trilogy first and so more or less knew what would happen by the end.  I highly recommend reading this series (this book being the first of five in the BRIDGES OF TIME saga) before jumping into Rabe's trilogy.<br />If you liked what Weis and Hickman have written in this setting, you'll most likely enjoy this entry as it has a similar feeling to what they've done.  A quick read, but thoroughly enjoyable.	2003-08-08
US	52803202	R3HTTBLJGFVMUJ	0446362662	318619454	Summer of Night (Aspect Fantasy)	Books	4	69	77	N	N	Approaches King's level	The problem I've had in the past with such &quot;horror&quot; writers as Dean Koontz and John Saul was the fact that their protagonists were just too one dimensional.  There was no emotional attachment and, thus, no tension to the book.  Stephen King, on the other hand, fleshes out his characters so well that the reader feels like they know them intimately.  This, in turn, gives the reader an emotional stake in what happens to them.  Dan Simmons, while not quite on King's level (then again, who is?), accomplishes this quite well.  There were times in the book that I was moaning out loud in fear that something bad would happen to one of the six young boys that Simmons had gotten me to care about.  What made the book more compelling is that no one was safe.  It was painful to see the surviving boys attempting to deal with what happened.  There was a definite emotional investment on my part.  The one problem I had was that Simmons introduced all six protagonists in the first 3 or 4 pages.  It was too quick for me to get a handle on any of them until a good 50 pages into the book.<br />Again like King, Simmons uses the setting and environment to great effect.  One problem that I had, however, was the fact that, in attempting to describe the layout of the city and how all the streets and roads interconnected, I became pretty much confused.  A map of the town in the front of the book would have been very useful.  Other than that, Simmons makes very good use of the smallness of the town, it's isolated location in the midwest, and the summer weather as crucial components in the story.<br />Very enjoyable book and well worth the read.  Pretty much as soon as I had finished it, I ordered the sequel, A WINTER HAUNTING.  I am eager to find out what has happened to the characters in the intervening years.  Simmons has done an excellent job here in making me care about his characters, which makes for a very involving read.	2003-07-25
US	52803202	R1M0CK9T6C88S0	0446609463	569517168	Corsair	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Decent, but nothing to rave about	When I first came across this book, I said, &quot;Cool!  A pirate fantasy!&quot;  Aside from Hobb's Liveship Traders trilogy, there's not a lot of this around.  I was a bit hesitant when I saw that it was by one of the authors that wrote the Anteros series, which was pretty much fluff throughout.  I figured I'd give it a chance anyway.<br />The characters that populate the book are nearly one dimensional.  Bunch gives each personality quirks that distinguish them from one another but, aside from the main character, we never know their real motivations.  This is especially frustrating with the antagonists.  About 3/4 of the way through the book, something is revealed about them that just begs for more investigation, but it ultimately leads to nothing.  The same thing can be said for the plot.  After reading the last page, I wondered where the rest of it was and was disappointed that we didn't get to learn more about the true antagonists.  The book was written two years ago, so it seems unlikely that we'll see a sequel if we haven't by now.<br />That was the major problem I had with this book.  There was all this setup and development of the motivation for the main character, but there isn't ever any true resolution of this conflict.  There's a somewhat &quot;happy&quot; ending, but it was completely unsatisfactory after all the build up.  Not that the book wasn't somewhat enjoyable.  There were some interesting plot twists and ideas put forth, but there wasn't any payoff for the reader.  The character interaction was decent, but I felt that there should have been more space devoted to developing the supporting characters more and making all of them more three dimensional.  The world could have used some more fleshing out as well.<br />All in all, a pretty mediocre read.  Nothing that I'd really recommend, but it wasn't badly written.  I think the page count could have been doubled to add more meat to the story as well as to develop a satisfactory ending and the lackof these really hurt the book.	2003-07-24
US	52803202	RTFDI2LKED2Q6	0971977518	662543898	Invasion '55	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Not up to par for Dixon	My main impetus for picking up this book was the fact that Chuck Dixon wrote it.  I've really enjoyed most of his other work (Robin, Nightwing, Crux) and so had high expectations for this book.  Unfortunately, it didn't live up to its potential.  From reading the summary, I expected Dixon to take the concept of a 50s era alien invasion movie and update it for the 21st century while still keeping the setting in the 50s.  I was disappointed to find that what we actually got was a campy cliched story with two dimensional cardboard characters.  Dixon didn't do anything to revamp the concept or characters.  They simply lie there on the page, much like they lie on the screen in the old films.  I think a major sticking point was the length of the book.  At 80 pages, it definitely could have benefitted from another 20 just for character development.  I would have been fine with the standard alien invasion plot if the characters had been more original and multi-faceted.  I think the story as a whole would have benefitted from being longer since the solution to the problem seems to be hit upon too quickly and implemented way too easily.<br />The art wasn't bad, but not up to my expectations of the book, either.  Note that it is black and white art.  The Amazon listing made no mention of this.  The book could definitely have benefitted from the use of gray tones rather than strick black and white artwork.  Fernandez's art is capable, but his linework is too heavy for my tastes.  It tends to make the page look cluttered.  There were times when I wasn't sure what was supposed to be happening within a panel.  I prefer my lines much lighter and cleaner.  This was solid but not engaging artwork.<br />All in all, this was a mediocre retread of a cliched sub-genre of sci-fi.  Dixon turns in a totally sub-par performance.  I've seen him have much better characterization and plotting in a 22 page monthly comic.  Disappointing to say the least.	2003-06-24
US	52803202	R1X64FDSVB820G	0061002828	239033838	The Hellbound Heart	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Not much to it	I read Barker's WEAVEWORLD several years ago and loved it.  I was also aware that this book was what the HELLRAISER movies were based on.  I'd seen bits and pieces of them and found them interesting.  Needless to say, I had high expectations for this book.  I was a bit disappointed to find that there wasn't much meat to it.  The main impetus behind this book was the dichotomy between pleasure and pain.  Unfortunately, this intriguing concept, along with the Cenobites (those purveyors of pain as pleasure), was never threshed out to my satisfaction.  Yes, the book is full of disturbing images and Barker provides just enough detail and forces the reader to fill in the blanks with their own imagination.  Unfortunately, I finished the book feeling a bit empty as far as his ideas behind the concepts he introduced.<br />In addition to this, the characters that populated the book seemed interesting, but they were not developed enough in order for me to care about them.  Each character's individuality was roughly outlined and their interrelationships were hinted at, but not enough to fully realize them in the reader's imagination.  Yes, the book weighs in at less than 200 pages, but I've seen Stephen King fully flesh out a character, their motivations and desires, and their relationship with other characters in a story in only a couple of pages.  Barker fails to do this almost completely.<br />I don't mean to bash this book completely.  It was interesting and had some intriguing concepts and characters, but, unfortunately, Barker does not do enough with them to get me to care.  I finished the book and wished there had been another 200 pages so that he could have filled in what was missing.  Maybe I should just write this off to one of his early attempts at structuring a story and pick up another of his books.  I don't regret reading it, but, aside from the imagery of the Cenobites and the idea of the box, it's pretty forgettable.	2003-06-03
US	52803202	R1HNEA01ZH8K3Q	081254949X	875477858	Ladylord	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Well researched and well written	This book seems to fall somewhere in between Feist &amp; Wurts' Empire trilogy and James Clavell's Shogun.  It has similar thematic elements to the Empire trilogy and the tone and atmosphere of Clavell's seminal work.  Miller seems to have done her homework in researching for this book in that the samurai mentality of medieval Japan is ever present.  The attitudes and beliefs of the characters add a note of authenticity (not that I'm an expert, but judging from Clavell's book) to the book.<br />Yes, the plot is almost exactly the same as Feist and Wurts' series:  a young woman must fight for her right to assume her father's throne in a medieval Asian setting dominated by men.  However, the story elements differ quite a bit.  Miller places more focus on the samurai mentality and code of honor than Feist and Wurts did.  She also adds elements such as geishas and their behind the throne movements that only enhances the atmosphere of the book.<br />Miller's strong point is her characters.  While many authors attempts at writing in a medival Japanese world result in many characters becoming interchangeable, this is most definitely not the case here.  From Javere, the main character, to her court wizard and military leaders, each has their own personality and quirks.  The desert people she mixes in also adds to the diversity of the world that is only hinted at in other places.  Her dialogue adds to the mixture.  Not only is it realistic and authentic in tone, but it also adds to the strong characterization.<br />Unlike Clavell's book, however, this is definitely a fantastical story.  From the court mage to the dragon warriors, this book is firmly rooted in the genre of fantasy fiction.  Miller does not overpower the reader with this, though, which makes these elements much more mysterious and engaging.  Not only that, but the characters react to them as if they were not unexpected.  By making them seem, not common, but rather expected, they seem that much more believableto the reader.<br />If you enjoyed Feist and Wurts' Empire trilogy, you will most likely enjoy this standalone book.  As it is out of print, however, you may have a bit of a time tracking down a copy.  I do wish there was a sequel to it as I would enjoy seeing what has happened to the characters and the ending seemed a bit abrupt.	2003-04-01
US	52803202	R1HWMJOJR50007	0765340747	103095266	The Pillars of Creation (Sword of Truth)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A new perspective for the world of SoT	With this book, Terry Goodkind takes a completely different approach than he has with the rest of the books in the series.  The main characters from the previous six books don't even show up until the last 75 pages or so.  Not only that, but it does very little to advance the plot that has been developing.  Instead, Mr. Goodkind takes us on an exploration of the world he has created through a completely different set of eyes.  We are introduced to Jennsen, a young woman who has been almost completely isolated from everything that has been happening in the books.  She is learning about the world outside of D'Hara and the events that are occurring for the first time.  Through her eyes, the reader gains a different perspective on things, a perspective that relates more to the common person and how these events affect them.  We have been used to seeing things through the eyes of the characters in the middle of the war and this outside looks causes us to view things from a completely different angle.<br />Goodkind's ability to suck the reader in is still as strong as every.  As with the previous six books, I found it very difficult to put the book down.  The characters he has created to populate this book are greatly varied and all have personalities all their own.  As usual, they must suffer through trials and tribulations along their journey and we see how these events change the characters throughout the book.  By the end, the main character has evolved into almost a completely different person.<br />I would imagine that most people who have enjoyed the series so far would enjoy this book as well.  I am guessing that a lot of the negative reviews here represent people who have not enjoyed the last few books, but have stuck around either out of morbid curiosity or to see if the series gets any better.  If the last few books have not appealed to you, odds are you won't like this one any better.  For all of you hardcore Goodkind fans out there, this book will most definitely please.  Just don't expect to see much of Richard, Kahlan, Zedd, or Adie.	2003-03-26
US	52803202	R5K1ASN6ZSNYV	1563899809	209291533	Y: The Last Man, Vol. 1: Unmanned	Books	5	88	95	N	N	Outstanding!	While this may not be the most unique story idea (something kills of every male animal on the planet except one man and his male monkey), Vaughan's handling of the story is exceptionally well done. His characterizations are vivid and each has their own voice, making it easy to remember who is who from issue to issue (rather than waiting for this trade paperback, I bought all of the monthly issues individually as they came out). Vaughan also throws in some very interesting story concepts: women who used to be models now trying to find meaning in their lives, a new tribe of Amazonians, and a doctor who was about to give birth to a clone of herself thinking that it's all her fault.<br />Pia Guerra's artwork, while not outstanding, is very solid. She very capably imbues each character with their own individuality. She is able to convey emotions very well and her designs for this post-apocalyptic world are subtle (i.e., the world is still recognizable, but it is very evident that things have changed).<br />This title was a sleeper hit for Vertigo with the first two issues selling out quickly and prices jumping quickly. I assume that if you are here, you're at least mildy interested in this title. Do yourself a favor and pick it up. You will not be disappointed.	2003-03-18
US	52803202	RSTZATVWG4O0K	0786928603	738309255	3: The Eve of the Maelstrom: Dragons of a New Age, Volume Three	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Best book of the trilogy	As the trilogy progressed, Rabe's writing just got better and better. It went from being awkward and stilted in the first book to very smooth flowing in this last book. It actually felt like a true Dragonlance book and made for some very enjoyable reading. Yes, some of the characters needed to be fleshed out more and they seemed to get mortally wounded and overcome unbeatable odds more than they should have, but those seemed like minor things.<br />The last half of the book seemed like fight scene after fight scene with minimal rest in between. Rabe has a knack for writing suspenseful battles, despite the fact that they can be a little unbelievable at times (5 people taking on 3 dozen Knights of Takhisis and winning). Her handling of the dragons and the intrigue among them in this book was very well done. I especially enjoyed the introduction of the shadow dragon. There was also an interesting exploration of the undersea kingdome of the sea elves, Dimernesti.<br />The conclusion, however, seemed a little flat. It seems as if the author wanted to set up another book, be it one of hers or some other author's in the Dragonlance saga. Maybe it continues almost directly into Weis & Hickman's War of Souls or into her own Dhamon Saga. Guess I'll find out when I get to those books. <br />My only complaint was the need for some serious proofreading. Typos, missing words, incorrect words (\\"to\\" instead of \\"too\\"), and missing punctuation got to be really excessive. I was surprised at how bad it was. There were pages where I found three or four of these. Of course, this was the previous edition that I read, so maybe they fixed these in this new release.<br />All in all, a very satisfying conclusion to the trilogy. Even if you hated the first book, I think you'll like this one (just make sure you read the second installment as well).	2003-03-12
US	52803202	R3B008JHOT3SF3	0786928573	510581832	The Day of the Tempest (Dragonlance: Dragons of a New Age, Book 2)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Better than the first book in the series.	The first thing I noticed in this book was Rabe's heavy handed way of recapping the previous book.  Presumably, readers will know that this is the second book in a trilogy and will have read the first book.  This being the case, Rabe goes into way too much detail in her recounting of what occurred previously.  And it wasn't done subtly, either.  Authors such as Jordan and Goodkind have taken this type of thing and elevated it to an art.  Unfortunately, Ms. Rabe doesn't take that approach here and it left a bad taste in my mouth.<br />Fortunately, by the time we get to around page 100, it seems that Rabe has finally found her voice.  The clunky prose and awkward dialogue that plagued the first book have almost completely disappeared by the end of this one.  Her narration becomes much more smooth and her characters speak like actual people.  Most of the time.  There are still a few rough spots to be navigated, but the improvement is definitely noticeable.<br />The story itself is very engaging as well.  The trials and tribulations of the characters and how they deal with them made me want to keep reading.  I wanted to see how everything was going to end up.  There is a twist or two at the end that I wasn't expecting and those made me want to immediately pick up the third book and start reading.  Rabe is able to accomplish, in the last half of the book, what she wasn't able to do in the first book and a half:  get me to care about the characters.  Not up to the level of Weis and Hickman, but enough that I began rooting for them rather than just following along.<br />Readers disappointed in the first book in the series have something to look forward to here.  Rabe's writing improves immensely, which makes for a much more enjoyable book.  Since this is a pivotal storyline in the new Fifth Age and should be read before moving onto Weis &amp; Hickman's War of Souls trilogy, this is important for all Dragonlance fans.  If she continues her improvement, the world of Ansalonwill have a great new voice to add to the chronicles of the land and its characters.	2003-03-10
US	52803202	R286MC5D2GZKLV	0786928425	23775909	The Dawning of a New Age (Dragonlance: Dragons of a New Age, Book 1)	Books	3	24	27	N	N	Mediocre, but not terrible.	I think some people are having a knee jerk reaction to this book's sub-par quality.  After having been treated to the near brilliance of Weis and Hickman for so many years, many readers are upset that this direct continuation of the storyline had such a drop in quality.  The story is still enjoyable, but it is not presented in as eloquent a fashion as was the case in previous books.<br />Now, I don't know if Ms. Rabe has written any books before this, but it seems like a first book.  A lot of the dialogue is awkward and there are places where the prose is very stilted.  These kinds of shortcomings, however, do not call for one star or even two.  I've read books that were much worse.  Books with no plot, impenetrable prose, and even dialogue that sounded like the two people were having different conversations with each other at the same time.  Essentially what I am saying is that, while the presentation of the story was lacking, it is still enjoyable, especially for Dragonlance fans.<br />This book continues the story where it left off at the end of Dragons of Summer Flame.  We see old friends and meet new characters.  The beginning of the book then skims over the next twenty years as the land changes with the withdrawal of the gods.  I hope that there are other books in the series that flesh this period of time out, but it's not really necessary for the story that Ms. Rabe is telling here.  And as far as the reviewers who complained about kenders and dwarves not behaving as they should, don't they think that different members of those races will have completely different personalities?  I know humans do.<br />Anyway, if you're a fan of the Dragonlance saga, this is a must read for the continuing story.  From what I have heard, if you jump straight to Weis &amp; Hickman's War of Souls trilogy, you'll be missing out on a lot.  Just don't go into this book expecting the same level of writing as those two and you should be okay.	2003-03-06
US	52803202	R1FR996ID0LJIN	0345379063	590264183	Legend (Drenai Tales, Book 1)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	I've found a new author to devour!	First off, let me say that this is the first novel I've read by David Gemmell.  I must say that I was very impressed.  His writing style grabbed my attention on the very first page.  I felt as if I was actually in the room!  And it only got better after that:  engaging characters, great pacing, and brilliantly written action scenes.  What more could a fantasy fan want?<br />Gemmell's characters may not be as developed as those of other authors, but they are vivid just the same.  Each one was unique and Gemmell cuts to the heart of their motivations with well written interior monologue and interaction with other characters.  They may not be the most three dimensional, realistic, or completely believable characters, but Gemmell puts them out there with such well written passages, it's hard not to like (or hate) them.<br />Gemmell's pacing is another thing I really liked.  This wasn't one of those involved, complex novels like Jordan or Martin write.  This was a straightforward, light reading book with the appropriate pacing.  In the first couple of pages, we already have a general foreboding of what is to come.  After that, Gemmell introduces the main characters in short order and gets them on their way with a minimum of pointless wandering.<br />And then we get to his battle scenes.  Take Salvatore's one on one swordfights and extrapolate that to a battle involving thousands and you'll get the general idea.  Sometimes when an author writes a fight scene, they stretch it out with such description that it loses all of its tension and excitement.  Gemmell manages to write such scenes with just enough description so that you can tell what's happening, but not so much that you don't feel involved.  I hardly breathed for the last fifty pages.<br />Due to this book, I will now be buying more of Gemmell's books.  He is a very enjoyable author (at least, judging by this book) and I can't wait to get to the rest of his stuff.  If you're into gritty military fantasy with lots of brutal action, you'll enjoy this immensely.	2001-12-21
US	52803202	R30Y3QQ0V9AWRC	0300035829	431246227	Thailand: A Short History	Books	3	18	20	N	N	A thorough overview, but lacking in some areas.	This book gave me a seemingly thorough overview of the history of Thailand.  From the early centuries AD up through 1982, we see how the various countries of southeast Asia interacted with one another in defining their boundaries today.  The author gives a good look at how the royalty and wars of the area shaped the peninsula as it currently stands.<br />There are shortcomings to the book, though, that seriously detracted from it.  My biggest complaint is the fact that there aren't enough maps.  For example, there is a map that illustrates the area in the mid 1500s, but there isn't another one until the mid 1700s.  Boundaries have changed, new cities are referred to, but the reader has no idea exactly what things look like.  In addition, there are areas and cities referred to in the text that I couldn't find on any of the maps.  My other complaint is the fact that the author uses some notations and terms that are never explained to the reader.  I found some of these things confusing and they were never really cleared up to my satisfaction.<br />If you are looking for a general overview of the history of this area of the world with a focus on Thailand, then this is a very decent book with which to start.  If you're looking for something that goes into a lot of detail, this book may let you down.	2001-12-18
US	52803202	RH5QVNVYASCSM	0380811146	230662326	Lost Burgundy:: The Book Of Ash, #4	Books	3	3	3	N	N	I was ultimately disappointed.	This series turned out to be a disappointment to me.  This could be due to the fact that I was going into the series with a certain set of expectations and the books turned out to be focused in a different direction.  I was expecting epic medieval fantasy:  lots of battles, strong characters, and fast paced action.  These are the reasons that I read more fantasy than I do sci-fi.  A lot of sci-fi tends to lean on heavy character development and fleshing out ideas and concepts.  In essence, this series of books could be classified as &quot;medieval sci-fi.&quot;  The last half of the series was mostly excruciatingly slow with nothing really happening for hundreds of pages.  There were a couple of action scenes in there, especially at the ends of the books, but the rest of the time, the characters didn't seem to be accomplishing anything.  This lack of action is what ultimately lessened my enjoyment of the books.<br />As in the previous three books, however, Gentle gives us strong, vivid characters and realistic surroundings.  I actually felt as if I was trapped within the frozen city.  Her descriptions are subtle, but effective and her characters interact with one another and react to their surroundings just as you or I would.  The only thing that kept me turning the pages was a desire to see what the characters would do next (hoping all the while that they would actually DO something).<br />The ending of this final book in the series seemed strange to me as well.  It is sort of an epilogue to both the story of Ash and the story of the historians of the wrapper story.  The last twenty or so pages seemed kind of tacky.  They seemed to weaken the overall story and I could definitely have done without them.  I will say, though, that the ideas espoused in the wrapper story are some of the most unique story ideas that I've seen in a long time.<br />If what I've described sounds like something you'd enjoy, then you probably will.  It's hard not to like the characters and Gentle's handling of them.  You want to see them succeed and you feel for them when they don't.  However, if you're looking for a fantasy book about mercenaries that's heavy on action, I'd have to recommend either Elizabeth Moon's DEED OF PAKSENARRION trilogy or Mercedes Lackey's BY THE SWORD.  Though not as sophisticated as this series, the action is a lot more rousing and there are fewer slow places.	2001-12-07
US	52803202	R2ACBW2EE1IUC8	0380811138	636759549	The Wild Machines:: The Book Of Ash, #3	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Well written, but ploddingly slow	I was worried something like this might happen.  Book 2 in the series (CARTHAGE ASCENDANT) seemed quite slow throughout its middle portions and I was worried that, with Dijon under siege, we would get bogged down in strategy meetings, political maneuvering, and, basically, waiting for something to happen.  It turns out, I was unfortunately correct.  My main problem here is that nothing really happens in the book until the last 50 pages or so.  The amount of plot advancement that took place in this book could probably have been covered in 100 pages.  The main characters simply sit in the city, trying to figure out how to get out of their predicament.  They never actually DO anything.  Endless meetings, discussions, and staring out at the enemy and their uncountable legions and siege engines.  I was going stir crazy just reading about it.<br />The one thing that rescued this book from being terribly boring was Gentle's writing.  Vivid characters, brilliant dialogue and interaction, and description that makes everything seem real absorb the reader into the story.  As in the first two books, Gentle's writing makes up for shortcomings in other areas.  Unfortunately, there was just too great a lack of action to make up for here.<br />Additionally, the reader gets answers to some of the questions created in the first two books in the series.  How did Ash survive the culling as an infant in Carthage?  What makes Burgundy so vital to the Wild Machines' plans?  What's been happening in Dijon while Ash and half the troop were in Carthage?  Plus, the ongoing mystery that's been unfolding in the wrapper story of the historian gets more compelling as well.<br />Overall, I'd have to say I was disappointed with this book, but it did have some redeeming qualities.  Plus, it was an important part in the overall story, despite the fact that it dragged on longer than it really should have.	2001-11-28
US	52803202	R1SI3CO3Q7N8NI	0380805502	364694745	Carthage Ascendant : The Book of Ash 2	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Engaging ideas behind the story.	This is the second part of THE BOOK OF ASH (following A SECRET HISTORY), the story of a female mercenary captain in an alternate 15th century Europe.  This main alternate history story is framed by the story of a historian in the early 21st century translating a manuscript of this history.  He is trying to uncover why we have never heard any of this history as it is being told in the manuscript.  This all makes for a very engaging read because, not only does it draw the reader into the mystery, but we also get an extremely well told and realistic tale of a mercenary band in war torn medieval Europe.  As in the first book, the reader is again deeply immersed in this reality through the author's use of vivid description, brilliantly imagined characters, and engaging plot devices.<br />I was tempted to give this book only three stars.  The first fifty pages of the book, as well as the last hundred, were exciting and very engaging reading.  Unfortunately, the middle two hundred or so pages did not do much to advance the story.  The problem was that not much really happened.  Sure, we learn some important backstory and a lot of the relevant politics, but it was severely bogged down with superfluous scenes and interior monologues that could easily have been cut without losing anything from the story.<br />The main reason I didn't give it three stars was the fact that there were so many mysteries that were hinted at in the first book that were unearthed in this one that it made for some very interesting reading.  We learn about Ash's past, what her voice really is, as well as more of the history of the world in which she lives.  In addition, the final hundred pages were so full of action and military operations, that it was impossible to put the book down.  This is the type of action that I had been expecting in a book about a mercenary captain that seemed so sorely lacking in the first book.  The author also hits us with another revelation and an even bigger mystery in the last portion of the book.  I couldn't wait to get to the next one in the series and see if we didn't find out what was truly going on.<br />Despite the shortcomings of the storytelling in the middle of the book, I still felt that this was a better than average fantasy story and, thus, felt compelled to give it a four star rating.  If you enjoyed the first book in the series (and you'd better read it before trying this one), this one should also grab your attention.  This is a must read series for any fantasy fan, especially for those who enjoy stories with a military bent.	2001-11-20
US	52803202	R1ZDPFLDRY7Z1I	0380788691	166781184	A Secret History: The Book Of Ash, #1	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Not quite five stars.	I wanted to give this book five stars simply for the sheer originality in the crafting of the story.  The combination of an alternate 15th century Europe and a wrapper story about a historian doing a translation of the text was brilliant.  Not only do we get to read this vastly interesting mercenary story, but we also become intrigued by the historian's ponderings of how such a history could become &quot;lost&quot;.<br />What disappointed me about the book was that, despite the fact that the protagonist was a mercenary leader, there were relatively few battles in the story.  Over four hundred pages, there were two battles that were clearly narrated and a couple of others that were offscreen.  While I was not expecting constant action, four battles seemed awfully few for a mercenary band of this violent era.  On a similar note, I wanted more exposure to the voice that Ash hears in her head that gives her tactical advice on the battlefield.  I can only recall her using the voice once during a battle.  This was a major disappointment since that was the major concept that grabbed my attention when reading about the book.  Hopefully, this idea will be utilized more fully in the next three books.<br />Between the scattered battles, the reader gets a vivid look at 15th century military life.  Gentle holds nothing back in this regard.  The view we get is harsh and candid.  The reader is thrown into this world to sink or swim in the stark reality that Gentle creates.  This is not for the weak of stomach!  Of course, it's not all blood and guts.  We get a look into the politics of a mercenary camp as well as vivid detail of the armor and weapons carried by the soldiers.  All of this makes for a very realistic story.<br />Gentle's protagonist is what makes the story interesting.  Ash does what it takes to get her company through hardships alive and intact.  She is at times cold and hard and at others introspective and vulnerable.  She is a thoroughly fleshed out, three dimensional character with moods, feelings, fears, and desires.  In other words, she is an imperfect human being rather than the near perfect characters prevalent in a lot of fantasy today.  Ash's struggles to survive and to keep her troop intact are what drive the story forward through injury, capture, and political maneuvering.<br />One other thing I might have wished for would be a deeper look into the minds of the supporting characters.  All we see is Ash's point of view:  what she thinks of other characters, her ideas about the situations they are in, and her opinion of the world around her.  While this is effective in telling Ash's story (which is what the author was doing), the reader only gets one perspective on the world the author has created.  I would have liked to see how her lieutenants felt about some of the decisions she made or their fears and hopes in regards to their own lives.<br />All in all, this is a very powerful story, even if it is a bit slow in places.  Gentle fleshes out her protagonist and the world she lives in vividly and thoroughly, making them entirely believable to the reader.  I got lost in the narration, felt myself drawn into the world as if I was actually there at times.  I am most definitely looking forward to the rest of the series.	2001-11-06
US	52803202	R2FPV6PFG0QS6D	0451186362	40528119	Rose Madder	Books	4	1	1	N	N	King does it again!	Okay, people who have read my reviews of other King books are probably getting tired of reading my praises of his character building.  I'm getting a bit bored writing them, even if they are spectacular, so I will attempt to write about something else regarding this book.<br />The events in this book are so startlingly realistic and Rose's reactions to her situation are so vivid that it makes me wonder if King personally knows a woman who was abused.  The rage that I felt reading about what had happened to this woman was something that I have rarely felt before (the rape and attempted murder of the girl in Grisham's A TIME TO KILL is probably on par).  This realistic type of horror that King writes is probably scarier than his supernatural stuff because it could actually happen.<br />About 150 to 200 pages into the book, King does introduce it's one supernatural element.  To be honest, I would have preferred the book without it.  It just seemed incongruent with what I had read up to that point.  Before this, the story was steeped in the real world and grounded in things that could actually happen.  As the story progressed, the supernatural elements seemed to blend a little better, but I still would have liked to see the story resolved without incorporating this particular environment.  As it is, however, the surreal events that happened added a certain creepy tone to the book that only King can impart to a story.<br />While it wasn't entirely what I was expecting, I still enjoyed this story.  King's (sorry, I can't resist) characters are always so interesting to read that they make whatever story he is telling a page turner.  This type of story (without the fantastical elements) shows that King's storytelling ability ranges across all types of fiction.  We have Western elements in the Dark Tower series, fantasy elements in The Talisman, mystery elements in his Sherlock Holmes short story in (I think) NIGHTMARES AND DREAMSCAPES, and now a story of a woman's escape from spousal abuse.  I wouldn't be suprised if, in the future, high school students have one of his books assigned in a literature class.	2001-10-22
US	52803202	R2SYVE0CWGDJR0	0451167538	734693861	Different Seasons (Signet)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The lack of horror makes no difference.	I've said it before and I'll say it again:  even without using any supernatural elements in his stories, Stephen King is a brilliant author.  The strength of his storytelling is in his characters and the first three stories in this book make that very apparent.<br />I've seen the movie SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION a couple of times, so I knew the ending.  Nevertheless, I found this novella to be engrossing.  The first person narration gives the story a personal feel, even if the narrator isn't who the story is really about.  Using this technique, the reader doesn't really get into the head of the main character, but that makes the story all the more intriguing since we don't know what he's planning or thinking or even what his true motivations are.<br />APT PUPIL (I haven't seen this film) was scary because it was so realistic.  We see the characters going from a respectable student and a quiet old man to two people giving in to their base desires.  While one of them welcomes this as a return to things familiar, we see the other one struggle against them, knowing that they are wrong, but not being able to do anything about it.  This is a truly horrific story, but it contains none of King's usual supernatural elements.<br />The third story, THE BODY, is the best in the book.  I've only seen the first twenty minutes or so of STAND BY ME (which is based on this story), so I didn't really know what to expect.  Some of King's best work comes when he is telling coming of age stories of teens or pre-teens.  IT and CHRISTINE were brilliant and I now have to put this story in that category.  No true horror here, just a story about four ordinary friends in middle America spending the last weekend of the summer together.  This is King's trademark brilliant character interaction and development.  The story itself isn't all that exciting, but watching these boys together makes the story a very enjoyable read.<br />Finally, we have THE BREATHING METHOD.  While not as engrossing as the other stories, it does get back to King's supernatural twist at the end.  I enjoyed reading it, but it just didn't grab me the way the others in this book did.  I'm not sure I can really pinpoint why because the characters were just as developed.<br />Anyway, if you're a King fan, you'll definitely enjoy these stories.  If you haven't read King before, don't read these expecting to be surrounded by the macabre.  These truly show off King's strengths as a storyteller by stripping away all the horror and supernatural elements.  He's probably one of the best writers in America today and these stories prove it.	2001-09-26
US	52803202	R28YRV3NG6HIUU	0812521331	613313852	People of the Wolf (The First North Americans series, Book 1)	Books	4	57	58	N	N	A pleasant surprise!	This book had been sitting on my &quot;to read&quot; shelf for a while, along with all the other books in the series. I was a bit reluctant to pick them up, fearing I'd be disappointed after having read and loved Jean M. Auel's EARTH'S CHILDREN series. I finally decided to buckle down and pick up the first book. Now I'm eager to read the rest of them.<br />The first thing that struck me about this book was the vividness of the characters. From the beginning, I was sympathizing with the main character. The authors draw the reader in to the plight of the People and their suffering. Underneath, there is a hidden strength within them that rings true to me. Not long after, we get to the antagonists and we immediately dislike them. Instead of being driven by evil (I read a lot of fantasy :), their actions are driven by motivations that the reader see as obviously being selfish. The characters, though, see them as being what are best for the People.<br />The dialogue was well written, but seemed a little too modern for the time period the story took place. There was a lot of banter and sexual connotation that seemed misplaced. We don't really know how (or even if) people spoke during that time perioud, but the way the authors wrote it, it just felt wrong. This only detracted a little bit from the reading experience, but not at all from the story.<br />This is another of the authors' strong points: their storytelling ability. The plot was very intriguing and the pacing was excellent. At no point did I feel as if the story was dragging along while the authors took the time to develop their characters. These two aspects of their storytelling were seamlessly blended to produce a cohesive and enjoyable whole.<br />One final small complaint is the fact that I kept getting two or three of the supporting characters mixed up. I don't know if it was me reading the initial character introductions too quickly or the authors not establishing them well enough, but a couple of times, I had to stop and think of which character they were talking about to keep them straight.<br />Despite this, I still enjoyed this book. The characters were fun to read and I came to care about them. The pacing kept me interested, but not grippingly so (I was able to put the book down most of the time when it was late at night). If you're even considering reading this book, I recommend you do so without hesitation.	2001-08-31
US	52803202	RG6OBH2B1AOJR	0441007961	930812743	Sword, Ring, Chalice (Sword, Ring, and Chalice)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Seemed too quick and easy.	Although this book is as well written as the first two in the series (THE SWORD and THE RING), I think the plot was pushed along too quickly.  As a previous reviewer mentioned, there were entirely too many things to accomplish in this book.  The problem ends up being that the goals are accomplished both too quickly and too easily.  The last half of the book seemed to be a cake walk for the protagonists.  It made the antagonists seem inept and one dimensional.  There was one side trip alone that I would have loved to see expanded into an entire book alone.  <br />This is not to say that everything went right for the antagonists.  Chester still hasn't lost her penchant for killing off characters.  Some of those deaths truly surprised me.  And some of them were hardly noble; they were brutal, ignominious executions, but they made the world seem more realistic.  Not all of the good guys survive.<br />And don't think that I didn't enjoy this book.  I gave it four stars because it was such an enjoyable read.  I was still interested in seeing the growth of the characters.  Plus, Chester's pure unpredictability had me turning pages late into the night.  It lost that fifth star for being a bit rushed and easy for the heroes.  However, Chester still has created a vivid world populated with believable characters that truly engages your imagination.  This is a must read trilogy for any fantasy fan.  I'm hoping that Chester comes back and revisits this creation sometime in the future, much like Terry Brooks does with his Shannara series, as long as she takes a break and flexes her muscles in another world in between.	2001-08-22
US	52803202	RDJ96R8F7KL8R	0441007570	549411872	The Sword, the Ring, and the Chalice: The Ring (Sword, Ring, and Chalice)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Nearly as good as the first.	This is the second book in Deborah Chester's trilogy:  The Sword, The Ring, and The Chalice (following THE SWORD).  Again, just as in the first book, she is brilliant in developing her characters and making the reader care for the protagonists.  Not only are her characters vivid and interesting, but their reactions to their surroundings and the situations they find themselves in are realistic.  What makes things truly enjoyable are the characters' interactions with one another.  Their emotions are rendered beautifully and the dialogue is a joy to read.<br />On top of this, the storytelling is quite intelligent.  The reader never knows what's going to happen next because Chester doesn't have her protagonists overcoming every obstacle with ease.  They are truly challenged at every turn, thus providing the reader with a sense of suspense and urgency.  In some fantasy, the choices that the characters make are obvious and the reader can immediately discern what will occur because of them.  Not so in this case.  The reader has a general idea of where the author is taking them, but can never really predict the path the characters will take along the way.  This makes for some very engaging reading.  Once the reader has come to care for the characters, they cannot help but keep reading to find out what happens to them.<br />What seems unjust to me is that Chester is not as widely recognized (yet) as such authors as Raymond E. Feist or Robin Hobb, despite the fact that her writing is as good as, if not better than, theirs.  She's not quite up to the level of Jordan, Brooks, or Martin, but her books are still fascinating reads.  If you haven't read anything by her yet, I highly recommend this series (I can't wait to get to the third book, THE CHALICE).	2001-08-10
US	52803202	RIP6VME46ZJYY	0441007023	632655694	Sword, Ring, and Chalice: The Sword	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Much better than I was expecting!	When I first came across this book (and it's two sequels), it sounded intriguing. I was expecting a somewhat above average tale, but what I got was a thoroughly captivating and well written story. By page three, I was unable to put it down. Ms. Chester throws enough hints, myths, and foreshadowings at you and so many hardships and obstacles at her characters that you have no choice but to keep reading to find out what happens next. Plus, since she has no compunction about killing off her characters, the outcome of their encounters is never certain. I was thoroughly caught up in the action scenes with my heart pounding in my throat. I felt like I was actually in the scene, her descriptions were so vivid.<br />Adding to this is the fact that you come to care passionately for the characters. It seemed like her protagonists could never catch a break and that the world was aligned against them with insurmountable odds. Each time it seemed they had achieved a victory, some other hardship would befall them. Their frustrations became mine. Then there are the characters that aren't truly villains, but you hate them nonetheless because they are so despicable. Overall, the reason I enjoyed reading about the characters so much was that they are so realistic. They have fears and hatreds, strengths and weaknesses, everything that makes a person who they are. None of them are perfect and I have yet to find someone who is completely good or completely evil. There is a little bit of selfishness or honor or integrity in all of them.<br />Chester has also created a truly vivid world. Bigotry, hatred, fear, politics, and religion all play major parts in creating the texture of the story. The protagonists must overcome these things, as well as their physical opposition. Then there are her creatures...the forces of the Nonkind (her creatures of darkness) are varied and imaginative and frightening. It reminds me a lot of Jordan's creativity in populating his world with minions of evil (remember reading about a Myrdraal for the first time?). Though there are some similarities with the demons from other stories, she adds enough differences to make them unique and interesting.<br />The combination of the characters, world building, and action make for a very compelling read. I was thoroughly absorbed in the trials and victories of the characters. One thing that did confuse me though: which sword is the title referring to? There were several in this book that had extraordinary qualities, but I am unsure which one is the important one. Other than that though, I cannot recommend this book highly enough.	2001-07-31
US	52803202	R1AUA60388VI3M	0553279718	662268278	The Uplift War (The Uplift Saga, Book 3)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	The best of the first &quot;trilogy&quot;.	While not comprising a true trilogy, the first three books in David Brin's UPLIFT SAGA (SUNDIVER, STARTIDE RISING, and THE UPLIFT WAR) serve to introduce the reader to the author's universe. Of those three, I have to say that THE UPLIFT WAR is, by far, the best of the three. SUNDIVER was the &quot;true&quot; introduction to this universe and was a well crafted detective story, which was completely unexpected. I found the second book, however, to be extremely boring and long winded. In my review of that book, I mentioned that it could have easily been 200 pages shorter. THE UPLIFT WAR, however, was a very engrossing book. The problem with STARTIDE RISING was the fact that, quite a few times, nothing really happened for dozens of pages. There was very little action to propel the book along. Thankfully, I found this was the complete opposite for this book. Brin intersperses his character development with thoroughly enjoyable action sequences and a lot of political intrigue.<br />While the concept of Uplift that Brin has created (you'll just have to read the books to truly understand it) is very intriguing, what makes this book so enjoyable is the characters and their interaction with one another. Brin has a talent for getting inside the head of his aliens as well as his uplifted species (in this case, chimpanzees). He uses these characters to examine humanity, both their strengths and their weaknesses, as seen by those outside of our species. It's brilliantly done. Not only that, but the characters themselves are interesting: the daughter of an alien ambassador, a chimpanzee in the colonial militia, and the son of the planet's administrator make up the main character group for the story. These are supported by a varied and colorful cast of supporting characters, each with their own personalities and quirks.<br />This book is, on the surface, a story of humanity and their chimpanzee allies fighting to regain control of the planet they had been ceded in the society of the Five Galaxies. Guerilla warfare and political maneuvering make up the majority of the book, while character development and changing relationships drive the plot forward. A very satisfying entry in the world of Uplift. Definitely the best one yet in the story.	2001-07-17
US	52803202	RDVBVV5ESQZIF	0786905239	422037845	Dragons of Summer Flame (Dragonlance Chronicles, Volume 4)	Books	4	13	17	N	N	Seemed a little short and rushed, but thoroughly enjoyable	Although it's not mentioned on the cover, this book is considered to be volume 4 of the DRAGONLANCE CHRONICLES. It follows the adventures of the &quot;second generation of heroes&quot;, the sons and daughters of the Heroes of the Lance. If you read SECOND GENERATION by Weis &amp; Hickman first, you'll get a lot more out of this book.<br />Weis &amp; Hickman live up to their normal levels of excellence. This book is chock full of vivid characters, brilliant storytelling, and plenty of action and suspense. The dialogue and character interaction are still top notch and believable. The characters from the original trilogy that are seen act consistently with how they've been written before. Weis &amp; Hickman do an excellent job of immersing the reader in the land of Krynn.<br />The one shortcoming, I felt, was that it seemed to be rushed, especially after the halfway point. Battles seemed to be over too quickly or simply referred to as something that already happened (there was one particular scene I would have loved to have read directly) and the resolutions to the numerous confrontations seemed to be too simple. I think it would have taken a minimum of two, and preferably three, books to do justice to this story.<br />My only other minor gripe is that, between this book and SECOND GENERATION, we never even meet some of the offspring that are referred to (I won't spoil it for those of you who haven't read these books). We also don't get to see Riverwind and Goldmoon. A character that was introduced in SECOND GENERATION (which made me think they would play a pivotal role in this book) is never directly showed to the reader, but rather referred to by other characters. Finally, there are a couple of characters whose destiny we never find out at the end of the book (and I'm assuming they won't be around in the WAR OF SOULS trilogy).<br />Other than these two things (which were actually minor, despite the amount of time I spent writing about them), this was a thoroughly enjoyable book for Dragonlance fans. While obviously a setup for THE WAR OF SOULS, it was still a satisfactory read. I enjoyed revisiting the characters I've come to know so well from the other books and Weis &amp; Hickman do not disappoint in their return to the world of Krynn. Definitely a must read for any fan of the Heroes of the Lance.	2001-07-11
US	52803202	RVPF03V9B0BJA	1560766409	81281548	The Legacy: Legacy of the Drow, Book I	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Salvatore does it again!	With this book, Salvatore returns to one of his most popular creations:  the drow ranger, Drizzt Do'Urden.  THE LEGACY takes place several months after the end of THE ICEWIND DALE TRILOGY (THE CRYSTAL SHARD, STREAMS OF SILVER, and THE HALFING'S GEM).  While it's not necessary, I highly recommend that you read that, as well as its prequel DARK ELF TRILOGY (HOMELAND, EXILE, and SOUJOURN), before you pick this book up.  These two trilogies introduce the characters and places that THE LEGACY focuses on.  If you haven't read them, you will still be able to enjoy the story, but you won't be able to pick up on a lot of the nuances and references to past history that makes the story so rich in detail.<br />Two things that Salvatore is brilliant at:  characterization and battle scenes.  Drizzt has got to be one of the most interesting, three dimensional characters in all of fantasy.  He is passionate, caring, and introspective.  It is a joy just to read his philosophizing on how he lives his life.  The supporting characters are all individualized with their own quirks and passions.  The interactions among them are at times a joy to read and, at other times, very frustrating, mainly because we come to care for them.<br />Salvatore's fight scenes are probably the best I've ever read.  His description, though detailed, his very fast paced.  Every time I read one, my heart races and my hands shake.  It is pure brilliance and this book is no different, except for the fact that there are more battles in this book than in any two of the previous books.<br />If you are a Salvatore or a Drizzt fan, you're going to love this book.  If you haven't read any of the Drizzt books I mentioned above, I suggest you start there so you can get the full appreciation for this one.	2001-06-20
US	52803202	RH10KNR8ARMT8	0786902604	176732663	The Second Generation (Dragonlance)	Books	4	55	58	N	N	Weis &amp; Hickman revisit the Dragonlance universe!	For those of you who don't already know this (like me before I actually sat down and read it), this book is actually five short stories.  They are loosely tied together and told in chronological order.  They are basically designed to introduce the reader to the offspring of the Heroes of the Lance.  These new characters play prominent roles in Weis and Hickman's DRAGONS OF SUMMER FLAME.<br />The first story is KITIARA'S SON.  It tells the story of...umm...well...Kitiara's son.  I won't tell you who the father is since that's one of the surprises of the story (I guarantee you will never guess this one!).  In it, Weis and Hickman explore some of their favorite themes:  love, honor, and duty.  It is a very intriguing story and very well written.<br />LEGACY tells the story of Caramon and Tika's son Palin.  We are also introduced to two of his other sons, Tanin and Sturm.  Another classic tale from these two founders of the Dragonlance world.  We again see the brilliant characterization and character interaction that made the CHRONICLES and LEGENDS trilogies so great to read.<br />We get a better look at the interaction between Caramon's three sons in WANNA BET?  We get to see Weis and Hickman's classic humor once again in this story (albeit, without a glimpse of a kender's topknot).  The situations these three men get themselves into despite their best efforts made me laugh out loud.<br />RAISTLIN'S DAUGHTER regales us with a legend circulating in the land of Krynn, the unbelievable story that Raistlin fathered a child.  This story introduces new characters that play very important roles in DRAGONS OF SUMMER FLAME.  I was kind of disappointed in this story.  The characters just didn't seem as vivid as in the others.  The story was interesting, but it just didn't seem to come alive for me.<br />The last story involves Tanis and his son Gilthas.  It is an emotionally charged story of elven political intrigue.  Weis and Hickman again nail their characterization with thisstory.  The elven politician that played a pivotal role was excellently drawn, although I would have liked a bit more insight as to his motivations.<br />All in all, I enjoyed this book.  It's not required reading if you're going to pick up DRAGONS OF SUMMER FLAME, but it will give you a better understanding of the characters.  Weis and Hickman definitely still have what it takes to spin a good Dragonlance tale.	2001-06-20
US	52803202	RJJ2XLH0D8DHC	0345417623	786105285	Timeline	Books	4	3	3	N	N	One of his better books.	I seriously got into Michael Crichton's work after reading JURASSIC PARK and loving it.  Nothing that I've read of his since then has come anywhere close to being as good.  I had the feeling as I began to read this book that it had the potential to be just as good.  Unfortunately, it began to lose its initial momentum and ended up being another par for the course for Mr. Crichton.<br />Crichton seems to be at his best when he's focusing on cutting edge technology or theory, as evidenced by the strong themes of genetics, cloning, and chaos theory in JURASSIC PARK.  TIMELINE had a strong theme of quantum theory driving the story and there was even a small amount of time spent discussing archaology, but not nearly enough on the latter, IMHO.  The problem is, at least half of the book gets away from the quantum theory once it's been used to launch the adventure story and we only get bits and pieces of it after that.<br />The adventure story makes up the meat of the book.  We have three historians running around the medieval French countryside in the Late Middle Ages during the Hundred Years War.  Say so long to the technology focus.  Now, it seems that Mr. Crichton has done his research as far as how people lived during this time period, so the setting and surrounding characters seem authentic.  However, the storytelling seems to degrade from here.  It consists of mainly &quot;the protagonists get split up, find each other again, get captured, escape, get split up, and find each other again&quot; in a neverending cycle.  It got pretty tedious.  A hundred pages probably could have been cut out of this book without any significant loss to the story.  Crichton does throw in an interesting twist in the form of a mystery as to who exactly is causing them no end of trouble, but, unfortunately, it wasn't done very elegantly.<br />Don't think I'm bashing the book, because it was quite enjoyable.  I just think it got bogged down as far as pacing goes about three fourths of the way through.  The characters were interesting, but their actions got tiresome at times.  You would think that, since they were way out of their element, that they would have stuck closer together and been a little smarter.  Anyway, if you liked Crichton's other work, then you will most likely enjoy this.  Just don't expect another JURASSIC PARK caliber performance.	2001-06-05
US	52803202	R34NJF70LCKW4P	0886774632	906599038	By the Sword (Kerowyn's Tale)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Maybe 5 stars for a Lackey book, but not compared to others.	After reading all the rave reviews about this book on this site, I was expecting an intense, compelling book that I would be unable to put down. What I got was a well crafted, enjoyable story with vivid characters. I just couldn't give it 5 stars because, IMHO, it just isn't up there with books from Martin, Goodkind, Jordan, or Rawn. It was slow in parts, took a little too much suspension of disbelief in others, and didn't focus enough on some of the more interesting elements, such as Kero's interaction with the sword and her reluctance to use her Mindspeaking abilities.<br />Not that I didn't enjoy the book. I enjoyed it very much. Lackey's characters are always engaging, even if they are painted in either black or white a lot of the time. Very rarely does she use any grays in her characterization. Still, she is a master of character interaction. That is probably the most enjoyable part of her writing and she doesn't let the reader down in this book. <br />The story Lackey weaves is an enjoyable romp, but I was expecting it to have a little grittier of an edge to it. I mean, she's a mercenary, but we never see the hard edge that these people carry. Guess I'm just spoiled from having read Elizabeth Moon's DEED OF PAKSENARRION trilogy, which was a hard core mercenary book. I know Lackey writes for younger readers, but it would have added a touch of realism and tension to the book to have the danger of being a mercenary a little more real.<br />All in all, though, I enjoyed reading the book. It was a fun romp through the world of Valdemar, while not actually taking place in Valdemar. Fans of Lackey's work will enjoy this book, but don't go in expecting anything other than her usual fare...	2001-06-04
US	52803202	R1E61OXV695GM7	0446609307	363853173	A Triumph of Souls (Journeys of the Catechist)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A satisfying conclusion.	This is the concluding book of the JOURNEYS OF THE CATECHIST trilogy, the first two being CARNIVORES OF LIGHT AND DARKNESS and INTO THE THINKING KINGDOMS.  As with the first two books, this was a light, enjoyable read that provided a satisfying conclusion to the series.  There isn't much difference in the storytelling between the previous books and this one.  The characters still run into one obstacle after another and always miraculously overcome it uitlizing some gift from Etjole's backpack.  Still, it is a fun journey and I enjoyed the climax of the story.  It was definitely unexpected.<br />Again, though, I have to voice my complaint of the dearth of character development.  I have never seen four more static characters in all the fantasy I have read.  I wouldn't expect for Etjole or Alitah to change much, but I had high expectations for Simna.  He could have developed into a more interesting character than the treasure seeking person that he is.  Not that he's a bad person, but, rather, he seems to have only a one track mind.  Unfortunately, this never changes throughout the three books, despite the fact that Mr. Foster put him in several situations that should have had a serious impact on his character.  Unfortunately, the author chose not to take advantage of these opportunities.<br />One thing I thoroughly enjoyed were the chapters on Hymneth, the antagonist of the story.  Mr. Foster completely redeems himself from the cliched first chapter of INTO THE THINKING KINGDOMS in which we got our first glimpse of our villain.  Hymneth is revealed to be a rather interesting character with different motivations than most fantasy villains.  We get the quick version of the story of his life and we...well, I'll leave it to you to read the book.  I don't want to ruin anything.  Suffice it to say, the ending of the book is a unique twist on fantasy story resolution.<br />All in all, I truly enjoyed reading this series.  Etjole is a very intersting character and his journeys through distant lands and the characters he meets there are truly fascinating.  The storytelling is a bit repetetive at times and the characters can be infuriatingly static, but it is a romping adventure that is different than most epic fantasy out there today.	2001-05-09
US	52803202	R1IEWJ9HZDEII7	0800844777	406429159	The Kings and Queens of Scotland	Books	4	1	3	N	N	A brief survey of Scottish history.	Ever since I saw BRAVEHEART for the first time, I've wanted to learn more about Scottish history.  I didn't want to get into too much detail, just a general overview of the country's past.  Now, although I would have liked a little more explanation about what occurred during each ruler's reign and the causes of the various conflicts, this was still an excellent book for a look at the general progression of Scotland as a country.  Ms. Bingham gives the reader an overview of the major points during each regent's time on the throne.  The geneological tables in the back help us to see how each king or queen is related to those who came before.<br />The disappointing part of the book is the fact that no time is spent with the common people and the effects these events had upon them.  For example, there was only a single paragraph in the entire book dedicated to William Wallace (the main character in BRAVEHEART).  Stuff like this seemed to be glossed over for the sake of brevity.  While effective in that respect, I think these omissions detract from the book as a whole.  In addition, there were a few personages, institutions, and concepts that were never really explained very well (what is a Kirk?).  This made the book a little troublesome to understand at some points.<br />All in all though, this is a good book for getting a general idea about Scotland's past.  We see the progression from its formation to when the Union was formed between Scotland and England, as well as the last years of the Stewart kings in exile.  Being published in 1972, we get no mention of the re-establishment of the Scottish parliament a couple of years ago.  Still, I came out with the knowledge of Scottish history that I was looking for.	2001-04-30
US	52803202	R2TBIFALC9U8ZE	0446608041	840967472	Into the Thinking Kingdoms (Journeys of the Catechist)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Not much different from the first, but still enjoyable.	I was really worried after reading the first chapter of this book.  It introduces us to the villain of the story.  After only getting a brief glimpse of him in the first book, he gets an entire chapter devoted to him here.  It was awful.  Foster has created one of the most cliched antagonists I have ever seen.  Combine all of the cheesy elements from various sci-fi and fantasy villains and you get Foster's creation.  Ugh.<br />Fortunately, not much time was spent here.  If the tone of the book had been set by that first chapter, then I would have given it only two stars.  This was most definitely not the case.  We still see the plot device from the first book of Etjole encountering obstacle after obstacle and defeating each with something given to him by a person from his village.  This is getting tedious.  The book would have received only three stars if this had again been the thrust of the book.  Luckily, Foster has begun to dig deeper into the supporting characters and giving them a life of their own.  Their interrelationships were also delved into a bit more.  My one complaint in this regard is that the characters are very static.  For example, at one point, Simna gets an undisguised glimpse into his soul, but it does nothing to change his personality.  Why?  It is very frustrating to follow characters through several hundred pages of adventure and have them not change a bit.<br />I guess the reason I gave this book four stars instead of three was that, after about the halfway point, I found it difficult to put down.  I was enjoying the story way too much.  It is also very different from most other fantasies on the shelves today; different themes, different types of characters, and different locales.  All add up to a fun journey through an interesting world.  I couldn't help but enjoy myself.	2001-04-19
US	52803202	R2HAV8ASLI05C4	1578511933	335820117	Digital Capital: Harnessing the Power of Business Webs	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The last two sections could have been more in depth.	I selected this book from the reading list of my e-commerce class in BUS 240 at California State University, San Jose.  It seemed applicable to today's evolving business environment and relevant to what we have been learning in our MBA program.  I found it to be a very encompassing and well written book.  The authors broke it up into four distinct parts:  Introduction, The New Models of Wealth Creation, The Human and Relationship Elements of Digital Capital, and Strategies for Business Webs.  Each section is nearly capable of standing on its own.  Some are more relevant to this class than others, but all are tied together in a coherent whole.  Depending on who is reading the book, more may be gained from certain sections than from others.  I personally learned something from each section or, at the very least, found myself thinking about the ideas presented in a new light.<br />Following the basic introduction, the book conducts an in depth examination of the five core business models for e-commerce.  Through detailed examples, the reader gains tremendous insight into the theories that drive these models.  This was an engagingly well organized presentation and left me with a firm grasp on how the various models operate.  This is an excellent read for both current and potential managers.<br />The last two sections of the book were disappointing in that they were nowhere near as detailed or informative as the second section.  The examples were minimal and the discussion relatively short.  As I was reading them, I found myself asking for clarification on some points.  Unfortunately, the authors did not provide it in this book.  Not to say that these sections weren't good, because they were quite informative as far as a basic understanding of the concepts.  The depth of coverage, however, left something to be desired.<br />Overall, this was a very good book, for both students and managers alike.  Even managers of companies that have already entered the e-commerce marketare likely to find valuable information within its pages.  The business model descriptions and tours through existing companies to illustrate each were invaluable.  However, I think they could have expanded upon the last two sections and given the reader some deeper insight into these concepts.  I also would have liked some real world examples as illustrations.  These sections were so short and the business model section so much longer and expansive, it almost seems as if the title is a bit inappropriate.  Aside from that, I would highly recommend this book to anyone interested in learning more about the models and strategies behind companies today?s e-commerce world.	2001-04-17
US	52803202	R3T6493WRL74SU	087584801X	71649736	Unleashing the Killer App: Digital Strategies for Market Dominance	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Still applicable to e-strategy today.	This book was on the reading list for my e-commerce class in my MBA/Masters in Engineering program at California State University, San Jose.  Now, although it is three years old, which is quite outdated in Internet time, it seems to me that a lot of the strategy they were talking about for moving a traditional company into the digital world was still applicable.<br />I think what I liked most about this book was how well organized it was.  It was divided into three major sections.  The first part defines what digital strategy is and talks a little bit about its history and the evolvement of e-commerce.  This is where the authors defined what a killer app is.  This is done in a clear and straightforward manner with plenty of examples.  They also discuss the forces in play that are shaping e-commerce and the corresponding strategies that will enable a company to be successful in this environment.<br />The second part of the book discusses what companies need to do to develop their own killer apps.  The authors list and discuss in detail their twelve steps to do this.  Each step has vivid examples so that readers can understand the motivation for what seem to be counterinutitive approaches to doing business.<br />Part three explains how companies can take the killer apps they have developed and integrate them into their current business strategy.  The focus here is on the early stages of designing the new strategy rather than how to implement it.<br />This book is a great starting point for the strategist new to the e-commerce world.  The reader gets a thorough briefing on the forces at work and the strategies that can be used to take advantage of them.  There are plenty of examples throughout the book that are used to clearly illustrate the principles developed by the authors.  The problem with the book is that, since it was published three years ago, some of their examples are a bit outdated.  Amazon, for example, was only mentioned once and only in passing.  Other than that, the strategies and approaches discussed seem to me, and I admit that I am no expert in this field, to still be relevant even today.  A very good book to gain an understanding of how businesses approach entering into the e-commerce market today.	2001-03-21
US	52803202	R3GJTJPAOEHFET	0446606979	136997304	Carnivores of Light and Darkness (Journeys of the Catechist)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A light read with a vivid main character.	I very nearly gave this book three stars.  It is such a light, non-involved story that it didn't really capture my imagination as other fantasy books do.  However, I was forced to give it four stars because the main character, Etjole Ehomba, is one of the most unique and vivid characters I have ever come across.  Unlike most protagonists in fantasy, Etjole's first reaction to a threat isn't to draw his sword and attack.  His first reaction is to sit down and have a calm, rational talk with whoever or whatever is threatening him.  This makes for some very interesting scenes.  Only when all else fails does he draw his sword.  Etjole basically &quot;makes&quot; the entire book.  His quiet, introspective view of the world around him makes the reader think about how stereotypical and common most fantasy protagonists are.  We realize that the formula is getting stale and that new characterizations can be quite enjoyable.<br />Now, as far as the rest of the book is concerned, the storyline itself I thought was a very intriguing idea.  Unfortunately, the storytelling didn't live up to the plot's potential.  It reminded me a lot of reading the Arabian Nights stories or Grimm's fairy tales.  The main character stumbles upon a challenge, overcomes it relatively easily, and moves on until he comes upon another obstacle in his path.  Over and over...it got pretty repetetive after the first couple of times.  These various scenes in and of themselves were pretty enjoyable and vividly imaginative.  I was just a bit disappointed in the execution.  I don't know if this is how Foster normally writes since this is only the second book I've read by him, but I think it could have been done a lot better.<br />If you're looking for a book that doesn't take much concentration or thought, but is a romping adventure through strange lands, this should satisfy your craving.  Just don't expect anything along the caliber of Robert Jordan, Melanie Rawn, or George R.R. Martin.	2001-03-07
US	52803202	R3LHMMU4GLC1AA	0886778581	174499108	Green Rider	Books	4	8	10	N	N	A thoroughly enjoyable read!	I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book and really wanted to give it five stars, but I couldn't do it.  There was just something missing that kept it from being, in my opinion, on par with works from Jordan, Goodkind, Brooks, Rawn, and Martin.  I was never really able to figure out what it was.  Perhaps it was the fact that the world, while vivid, wasn't quite as developed as those in other authors' books.  It could have been the fact that the system of magic wasn't clearly explored or that the historical relationships between various characters wasn't delved into.  Whatever it was, it just made the book seem like it was missing something.<br />Aside from that, this was a wonderful read.  The story was engaging, the pacing was perfect with action scenes alternating nicely with scenes of repose, the characters were vivid and lifelike, and the dialog was a joy to read.  Ms. Britain has a firm handle on character interaction and plot development and has used that to craft a tight, focused book.<br />While the plot wasn't all that original (a dark (or gray in this case), mysterious evil threatens the land), the way in which the story is told was.  Karigan (the protagonist) isn't here to fight directly with the enemy.  All she has to do is deliver a message to the king.  Ms. Britain takes this idea and spins a yarn that engaged my imagination every time I picked up the book.<br />Some readers might call this &quot;fluff&quot; fantasy.  I kind of agree, but, every once in a while, that's what I'm in the mood for.  However, to be more specific, I think the writing is a bit &quot;fluffy&quot;, but the story itself is definitely not.  A thorougly enjoyable fantasy read.	2001-03-06
US	52803202	RXKY6KSYETF2V	0671697986	824659762	Oath of Gold (The Deed of Paksenarrion, Book 3)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Conclusion to a stunning series!	This entire series was a breath of fresh air.  It had been a while since a fantasy series had grabbed me with both hands and refused to let go.  The first two books (SHEEPFARMER'S DAUGHTER and DIVIDED ALLEGIANCE) were action packed, had great character development, and a gripping plot.  This book was no exception.<br />Again we are treated to Ms. Moon's excellent characterization.  Her dialogue, the interactions of the characters, and the growth and change of the characters made the book a joy to read.  The character development nearly outshadowed the plot of the entire series.  They are so vivid and so dynamic that they seem to almost jump off the page (or drag the reader into it).<br />This book sees Paks attempting to fulfil her destiny.  About 100 pages into the book, she is 180 degrees different from where we left her in the last book.  We see her come to grips with who she is and what she can do.  We sympathize with her trying to accept how other people now view her and with her struggle to fulfil the destiny that has been hinted at since the early pages of SHEEPFARMER'S DAUGHTER.  Paks has got to be one of the most memorable characters in all of fantasy.<br />The climax and ending are subtly done.  I felt that the way Ms. Moon ended the book was consistent with the way she had written the entire series.  Sometimes when I finish a book, I feel a little sad or I ask myself, &quot;That's it?&quot;  This ending, though, left me completely satisfied.  Well...maybe I did have a few questions, but, since all of one's questions are never truly answered, it was a fitting ending.<br />All in all, I truly enjoyed reading this series.  It was one of the best I'd read in a long time.  If you're a fantasy fan, you won't want to miss this.	2001-01-30
US	52803202	R2WPPT5STNSB2I	0671697862	347665102	Divided Allegiance (The Deed of Paksenarrion, Book 2)	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Don't judge this book by the beginning.	The first third of this book seemed mediocre compared to the writing and character development in the first book, SHEEPFARMER'S DAUGHTER.  Paks didn't seem the same and the story seemed a bit forced.  However, after this first adventure, the book really picks up.  Do not put the book down because of this beginning...trust me, it gets a lot better.<br />This book is the furthing story of Paks' development towards her destiny.  We see her exporing her own belief system and becoming more of a young woman of the world, rather than the girl she still was at the end of the first book.  The supporting characters are all vivid and important.  They each have something to contribute to who Paks will become.<br />I was shocked at the ending.  It seemed to come out of nowhere...there was no way I could have expected Ms. Moon to end the book that way.  It took a lot of courage for her to leave her readers hanging, wondering what would happen to Paks.  Thankfully, I had the third book on hand and started it right away, just to find out what happened.<br />This was a thoroughly absorbing book.  I found that, after the first third or so, I could hardly put it down.  As with the first book, I always wanted to find out what happened next.  Ms. Moon's writing kept me engaged with the characters and made me care about what happened to them.  Plus, she dangled just enough mystery in front of us to keep us intrigued with the overall story of the trilogy rather than the substories in the individual books.  I highly recommend this book to all fantasy fans.	2001-01-22
US	52803202	R1VKTSBB2BNXYJ	0553572989	847641664	The Rise of Endymion (Hyperion)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Satisfying ending to an engaging series.	With this book, Simmons ties up all the loose ends from the previous three books (HYPERION, FALL OF HYPERION, and ENDYMION), but, at the same time, leaves the reader wondering, &quot;What happens next?&quot;  I, personally, wonder what life has in store for Raul Endymion after his adventures in these last two books.  Will his life be peaceful?  Will he play an important part in humanity's future?  Hopefully, Simmons will let us wonder...it seems more appropriate than having him spell it out for us.<br />We finally get to see Aenea confront the Pax in this book.  It's not a clash of arms and men, but, rather, a contest of wills.  I'd like to give my take on this final confrontation, but it would ruin it for those who have not read it.  Suffice it to say, it took guts on Simmons' part to do it this way, but, in the end, I'd have to say that I was very satisfied.<br />As with the first three books, Simmons' characters are beautifully vivid and their interactions with each other are realistic and a joy to read.  My one disappointment with the book was the lack of action compared to the previous book.  There was more soul searching and philosophizing in this book.  We see a lot of Aenea proselytizing to the masses, trying to enlighten them in regards to the corruption of the Pax and its detrimental effects to humanity.  One thing I thoroughly enjoyed was the expanded role of the Core in this book as compared to the previous one (or at least one facet of the Core).<br />All in all, I think this book was a very satisfying conclusion to the entire series.  It brought to a close the adventures started with seven Shrike pilgrims almost three hundred years ago.  Beautifully done!	2001-01-18
US	52803202	R2FUQ8TJIVTN54	0671319647	18364777	Sheepfarmer's Daughter (The Deed of Paksenarrion, Book 1)	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Engaging military fantasy.	I'd seen this book highly recommended several places and finally got around to picking it up.  I loved it!  There were several places throughout the book where I just couldn't put it down.  I just had to see what happened next.  Rather than have this high tension environment throughout the book, Ms. Moon has interspersed scenes that are more relaxed and contemplative, which makes for a very well rounded read.<br />I absolutely loved the prolog.  Those first two pages set the tone for the entire book.  I'm halfway through the second book, DIVIDED ALLEGIANCE, as I write this and I can say that it continues in this tone of storytelling.  The best thing about this book is Paks, the main character.  In the first page of the first chapter, I was immediately sympathizing with her.  She wants action and adventure, not to marry some pig farmer's son.  She wants it so bad that she will defy her father's wishes and run away from her family and everything she's ever known.  I was hooked right away.  Throughout the book, we experience with her all the joys of military life:  recruitment, training, marching, her first battle.  These are all done vividly and realistically, making the reader feel as if they are actually there.  Paks' feelings and thoughts become ours.<br />Not only is Ms. Moon's characterization brilliant, but her story is engaging, too.  I get the impression that most of this book was just set up material for the rest of the series.  There were numerous small things that were hinted at in this book that I'm sure will turn out to have great impact later on.  On its own, this book is a brilliant military fantasy.  The villain they end up chasing around the country, though not actually shown until the very end, is expertly developed.  The things he does to prisoners, his tactics, and the way he treats his subjects all combine to make for a nasty villain.<br />I really enjoyed this book.  If you like fantasy, but are looking for something different than the usual fare, this will definitely satisfy you.  Brilliantly developed and engaging characters, great narration, and an exciting story all add up to take the reader on a thorougly rousing ride.	2001-01-18
US	52803202	RIUATQ9PJYGFJ	0441670261	811731609	The Planet Savers & The Sword of Aldones	Books	3	9	13	N	N	Two books, a short story, and a &quot;retrospective&quot;.	Let me start by saying that these are the first Darkover books I've ever read.  Since they were the first ones published, it seems kind of appropriate.  The two &quot;novels&quot; (they are short enough to be novellas) are THE PLANET SAVERS and THE SWORD OF ALDONES.  Sandwiched in between those two is a short story called THE WATERFALL.  Finally, we get an article written by Ms. Bradley regarding her feelings about the Darkover phenomenon.<br />Let's start with THE PLANET SAVERS.  My first impression is that it was way too short.  It was only 97 pages.  Just as the characters started to get interesting, the story was over.  There was no room for any character development aside from the main character and, so, the relationships he had with the others weren't very convincing.  Not only this, but the action was too quick.  It just seemed to happen so easily.  I would have loved to see a lot more detail regarding their trek.  It just seemed all to easy for them to succeed.  Where was the adversity?<br />Next came THE WATERFALL.  I have no idea what this story was about.  The narration was terrible, the inner thoughts of the main character were nearly incomprehensible, and I had no understanding for her motivations.  This is a terrible example of short story writing.  I understand what happened in the story, but I don't understand why.<br />Then there was THE SWORD OF ALDONES.  This was much longer than the first story in the book.  Probably around 180 pages or so.  While the story was very interesting, there were too many references to politics and history of both the world and the characters that weren't explained.  I was getting a headache trying to follow all the people that were being talked about, but weren't even in the story.  There relationships between all the characters were so convoluted and full of unexplained history that it was difficult to keep any of them straight.  I'm sure the author had them all straight in her head as she was writing the story, but she did a terrible job of communicating them to the reader.  Plus, I got the feeling that this was a pivotal story in the history of Darkover, but I just couldn't get a grip on why.<br />Finally, there is the DARKOVER RETROSPECTIVE by Ms. Bradley.  This was, as near as I can tell, published in 1980 and so is a bit out of date.  In it, she discusses the history behind the development of the Darkover saga and how it came to be.  It's an interesting read for anyone who's read a lot of the books, but a lot of the significance was lost on me since I'd only read these two.<br />Anyway, if you're a fan of Darkover, this is probably a must have.  If you're just starting out, you might want to try THE BLOODY SUN instead.he did a terrible job of communicating them to the reader.  Plus, I got the feeling that this was a pivotal story in the history of Darkover, but I just couldn't get a grip on why.<br />Finally, there is the DARKOVER RETROSPECTIVE by Ms. Bradley.  This was, as near as I can tell, published in 1980 and so is a bit out of date.  In it, she discusses the history behind the development of the Darkover saga and how it came to be.  It's an interesting read for anyone who's read a lot of the books, but a lot of the significance was lost on me since I'd only read these two.<br />Anyway, if you're a fan of Darkover, this is probably a must have.  If you're just starting out, you might want to try THE BLOODY SUN instead.	2001-01-09
US	52803202	RNZBJM2J9FMMK	0553572946	629359173	Endymion (Hyperion)	Books	5	11	14	N	N	The best yet!	Yes, I know people will disagree with me.  They will unfailingly say that the first book (HYPERION) was the best.  However, I enjoyed reading this, the third installment in the series, more than the first two books.  I think a lot of it had to do with the fact that it got away from a lot of the poetry that was so heavily emphasized in the earlier installments.  Second, there's a lot more action in this book than in the first two.  Don't get me wrong...I'm not in it purely for the action.  I enjoy strong, vivid characters and interesting worlds as much as the next person.  However, the action just adds to the overall enjoyment of the book.<br />The elements that drive the plot in this book were totally unexpected.  I wasn't expecting the jump in time and I never would have predicted what has happened to the human race in that span of time.  However, it makes for VERY interesting reading.  All the intrigue and mystery left me unable to put the book down.  I just had to keep reading to find out what was going to happen next.<br />As with the first two books, Simmons again has created beautifully intriguing characters.  Some new and some old, but all of them are interesting to get to know.  I think this is the strongest part of Simmons' writing.  All of his characters are three dimensional;  they have strengths, weaknesses, desires, and fears.  They are HUMAN.<br />I have enjoyed this series immensely.  It's characters, the world building, the tech, and the story all came together to provide me with hours of involved reading.  I can't wait to finish the final installment, RISE OF ENDYMION.	2001-01-05
US	52803202	R2WIKRPG2CX5ZE	0553288202	47311872	The Fall of Hyperion	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A more &quot;traditional&quot; sci-fi book.	With this book, Simmons has given the reader a book that is a more traditional sci-fi than the first in the series, HYPERION.  His vivid character development and world building are still there, but his storytelling style isn't as experimental as in the first book.<br />This book continues almost directly from HYPERION.  The time frame picks up almost exactly from the end of the last book.  However, the beginning jumps from the planet HYPERION and actually starts in the heart of the Hegemony.  This allows the reader to get a closer look into how this world actually works.  We are introduced to important players in this world that were only mentioned in the first book.  Don't worry, the pilgrims are not forgotten...their stories are fully revealed by the end of the book.<br />This book also explores more traditional themes of sci-fi.  One of the big things is the interaction of humans and non-humans (the Ousters and the Core personalities).  The conflict is at times subtle, but vivid nonetheless.  Simmons gives us a deeper look at the relationship between the Hegemony and the Core itself.  We even get to explore the landscape of the megasphere through the journey of one of the characters.<br />Simmons does an amazing job of weaving his differing plotlines and bringing them together at the end for a very satisfying climax.  His characters are vivid and interesting.  I found myself rooting for some and hating others, but, most of all, it was their realistic interactions that made for interesting reading.  All in all, this book left me anticipating the third installment in the epic, ENDYMION.	2001-01-02
US	52803202	R2RKIQCCA0U1UK	0553283685	47311872	Hyperion (Hyperion Cantos)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Interesting.	I'm not sure what I was expecting out of this book, but I never would have expected this.  Simmons has crafted an interesting book here.  Not only interesting story-wise, but in how he told the story as well.  This book seems to be six novellas wrapped together by the plot of the book as a whole.  Each novella focuses on one of the six main characters in the book.  There are two things interesting here.  The first is the fact that each story contains one element in common with all the rest.  The second is that each novella is written with a different voice.  Simmons shows his versatility as an author by giving each story a different feeling.  We get a reading of journal entries, a hard boiled detective story, an emotional family story, a tale of debauchery and struggle to survive, a military story, and a story of political intrigue.  Each one sounds almost as if it were written by a different author.  This was a stroke of brilliance by Simmons.<br />My one real complaint about the book is that it didn't accomplish much as a whole.  It was mainly a setup book for the sequel, FALL OF HYPERION.  We get expansive character development, an introduction into Simmons' universe, and the main characters go on a journey so that Simmons can truly launch the story in the next book.  We don't even find out what the major driving force of the epic is until about 50 pages into the second book.  Without reading the second book, this will be a disappointment story-wise.<br />Other than that, it was a very interesting read.  I enjoyed the characters...they were all unique and vivid.  They had diverse backgrounds and motivations and it was interesting to see them all drawn together by that single common thread.<br />If you're looking for action driven sci-fi with space battles, you won't get much of that here (wait for the second book), but Simmons does provide our imaginations with some interesting technology (although, I do wish he'd explained some of it better at the beginning of the book rather than in the middle of the second book).  Just make sure you have the second book handy when you finish this one...you'll want to jump straight into it.	2000-12-29
US	52803202	RFQS1D1A4QJFU	0786902647	395848912	Test of the Twins (Dragonlance Legends)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The action is back!	Now, although there is more action in this book than the first two in the series, that doesn't mean the intensive character development is gone.  The action serves to emphasize this development.  When forced to make choices in battle, we see what motivates the characters into the decisions they make.  All three of the major players in this book (Caramon, Tanis, and Tasslehoff) all have to make life altering decisions in the midst of battle.<br />We also get a glimpse into the heart of Raistlin during his quest.  Flashbacks to previous periods in his life give us insight into what made him into the person he is today.  We begin to question what we've been led to believe in the previous two books:  Is Raistlin truly evil or is there a spark of goodness within him?  The ambiguity of this answer makes for a fascinating read...I could never decide whether to root for him or despise him.<br />Weis and Hickman have used this series to flesh out some of the most interesting characters from the DRAGONLANCE CHRONICLES trilogy.  They were especially effective in making Tasslehoff into a more three dimensional character.  We see that he isn't the lighthearted, devil-may-care person we all thought he was in the first trilogy.  I think they need to write another series like this one and give us a view of the other characters as well:  Laurana, Goldmoon, Flint (in the past, of course).  The reason this and CHRONICLES are so compelling is that the authors make you care for the characters, especially the tragic ones.	2000-12-19
US	52803202	R1OLAL14T4J496	0786902639	577085969	War of the Twins (Dragonlance Legends, Vol. 2)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A deeper look at Caramon and Raistlin.	This book continues the character development of Caramon and Raistlin that the authors started in TIME OF THE TWINS. This book digs even deeper into their personalities and their relationship with each other. We see Caramon coming to terms with who his brother really is and what he represents. We see him wrestling with his love for his brother and his sense of what is right. In Raistlin, Weis and Hickman pull the reader in different directions, never letting them know if Raistlin is pure evil or if there is actually some good in him. This is where they excel...they provide the reader with vivid characters that have multiple dimensions to their personality. <br />Like the first book, there isn't a deluge of action. It is the characters that drive this story. Their joys, their pains, their worries are all what give the book it's feeling and it's purpose. The action is simply a backdrop against which the author's develop these two characters.<br />One thing I missed in this book was Tasslehoff. He didn't play much of a part until the end. After seeing so much of him in the first book, his absence was definitely noticeable.<br />All in all, this is a very good book to read if you're a fan of Dragonlance. If you have yet to read any of the books set in this world, then I suggest you go and read the CHRONICLES first. You'll have a greater appreciation for this series if you do.	2000-12-14
US	52803202	R2Z8H7JGDBLXO4	0786902620	455217726	Time of the Twins (Dragonlance Legends, Vol. 1)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Not QUITE as good as CHRONICLES.	If this first book is any indication, this series won't be quite as good as DRAGONLANCE CHRONICLES.  Not that I didn't enjoy reading this book...it was thoroughly enjoyable.  It just wasn't as gripping as the first series.  I found it very difficult to put down any of those three books.  With this one, it was no big deal to me to put the book down when it was time to go to bed.  This book focuses more on the characters than on the adventure.  Don't get me wrong, there is plenty of adventure to go around.  It's just that Weis and Hickman seem to be focusing more on the characters of Caramon and Raistlin and their relationship to each other than on how many bad guys they can wade through.  In this book, Caramon begins to realize just how evil his brother really is.  We see him in denial and, as the book progresses, we seem him slowly come to realize how far beyond redemption Raistlin is.  Aside from these two main characters, we also get to see Tasslehoff mature as a character.  We see how truly devoted he is to his friends and that he does have a deep sense of commitment to those he calls his friends.<br />The adventure side was neat, even if it wasn't the true focus of the book.  We get a good look at Istar before the Cataclysm and the events that led up to it.  Very intriguing.<br />If you've read the CHRONICLES, this will definitely be an enjoyable read for you.  If not, I suggest you read those three books (DRAGONS OF AUTUMN TWILIGHT, DRAGONS OF WINTER NIGHT, and DRAGONS OF SPRING DAWNING) first.	2000-12-12
US	52803202	R1VMP5DKHZRWT3	0553572881	70024877	Shadow Star (Chronicles of the Shadow War, Book 3)	Books	4	5	8	N	N	A good ending to a good series.	This is the concluding volume of the SHADOW WAR trilogy (book one was SHADOW MOON and book two was SHADOW DAWN), the sequel to the movie WILLOW.  The series as a whole really impressed me.  Chris Claremont's writing style, although weak in a couple places, fits perfectly in the fantasy genre.  His characters are vivid, their interactions realistic, and I'm constantly asking myself if his beautiful prose rolls off his brain and onto the page or whether he needs to actively think about his word selection.  This series is definitely darker than the movie, but it was still very enjoyable.  If you haven't seen the film, you can still enjoy these books, but you won't get the full effect.<br />Claremont continues his brilliant writing in this book.  It's fun just to read his prose because it evokes such vivid images and feelings.  As in the previous books, there are a couple of instances where his descriptions are vague and confusing (I read one scene three times and still was unable to figure out exactly what he was trying to convey).  He also seemed to rush the climax just a bit, but it was still a compelling ending to the book and the series.  I especially liked the final chapter...it kind of left things open for us to revisit this world and these characters at a later date.  I would love to see how things are going in another ten years (in their time, not ours!).<br />Speaking of the characters, we get to see them develop even further in this book.  Elora completes her &quot;ascension&quot; on her own terms and it is nothing like what it was expected to be in the first book.  Thorn and the brownies continue to struggle in the face of adversary and we get a glimpse into Khory's past life.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed reading this series.  I was a fan of the movie and, even though these books had a lot darker tone, they were a wonderful continuation of the story.	2000-12-07
US	52803202	R2AZYHINR99KH5	055357289X	741161362	Shadow Dawn (Chronicles of the Shadow War, Book 2)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	As compelling as it is vivid.	This is the second book in the CHRONICLES OF THE SHADOW WAR (after SHADOW MOON), the sequel trilogy to the movie WILLOW.  Being the second book in the series, I was expecting a lot less action and a lot more character development than in the first book.  While the character development was definitely there, I was pleasantly surprised by the amount of action and tension that it contained.  Chris Claremont takes his 17 years of writing X-MEN and developing those characters and applies that experience here with an expansive brush and colorful palette.  Two years have passed since the end of SHADOW MOON and, although we missed out on the maturation of Elora Danan in those two years, this book gives the reader a vivid picture of how she begins to come into her own as a person and begins to discover what it means to be the Sacred Princess.  As she and her companions begin to puzzle out who the Deceiver is and what his goals are, we see the little girl we knew in the first book start to become a young woman.  By the end of the book, Mr. Claremont has turned her into this fiercely passionate woman who knows what must be done, if not how to accomplish it.  Throughout this journey, the author populates the book with vivid and engaging characters.  Each one is unique in their personality and in their relationship with Elora.  We especially get a good look at Rool and how he relates to Elora without the smothering presence of Franjean.  The characters are what drive this portion of the story, although the tension and action is there as well.<br />The battle scenes in this book aren't as grand as in the first book, but they are just as compelling.  The sacrifice of friends, the fight against all odds, and the trust shown for those guarding your back, Claremont ties all of these themes into each of the fights that our protagonists encounter.  While the majority of the book was character and plot development filled with beautiful and compelling prose, the action scenes in betweenwere gripping and had me turning pages at a hectic rate.  Heart pounding action that left you wondering who would live and who would die.<br />My one major problem with this book was the fact that one of the songs that Elora sang was a blatant ripoff of BRAVEHEART.......the film preceded the book by two years.<br />Despite this bit of plagiarism, this was a compelling book.  Almost better than the first one in terms of readability and reader involvement.  I truly cared about the characters in this novel and wanted to see them succeed.  A definite must read for any fantasy fan.	2000-11-20
US	52803202	RKR7WYK0GN9NX	0553572857	936140893	Shadow Moon (Chronicles of the Shadow War, Book 1)	Books	4	26	35	N	N	Very enjoyable.	I've read some of the reviews for this book and a lot of people seem confused.  Some of the reviewers were complaining that this book just stopped without a &quot;true&quot; ending.  I want to make clear that this is the first book of a trilogy.  The second thing that struck me as odd is the fact that some reviewers are saying that Lucas and Claremont should have left well enough alone and not butchered the &quot;original&quot; book, WILLOW by Wayland Drew.  Let me just say that Drew's book was just an adaptation of the film from the screenplay (which was, in turn, based on Lucas' story idea, just as this and the two following books, SHADOW DAWN and SHADOW STAR, are).<br />Now, on to the review of the book.  I was amazed at how well Chris Claremont's writing style adapts to fantasy writing.  His prose is beautifully crafted and his descriptions and characterizations are both vivid and forceful.  His descriptions of being aboard a ship on a storm tossed sea had me feeling as if I was actually on the boat.  His characters were all varied and had unique motivations (although, by the end of this book, we are not at all sure of what some of these are).  Some people have commented that Willow (now called Thorn Drumheller) and the brownies, Rool and Franjean, don't even act like they did in the movie.  Well, there is a very good explanation for this:  this book takes place 13 years after the movie.  They have survived a cataclysm of unimaginable proportions and have lived in a dark and dreary world for those years.  Anyone living in those conditions would undergo a personality change.  Not to mention the fact that Thorn hasn't seen his family in 12 years.<br />Lucas came up with a classic fantasy story with a unique twist.  A dark and ugly evil is upon the land.  However, unlike most fantasy novels where it is well known (at least to the protagonist) who he must fight in order to defeat this evil, the characters in this book have no idea who or what is causing all of the trouble in the world.  This provides a unique challenge for the heroes of the book.  Not only do they have to defeat the being responsible, but they have to figure out who and where this person is.  It makes for very enjoyable reading because you are just as in the dark as the characters are.<br />I applaud Lucas and Claremont on the fine job they did in crafting this book.  I found it nearly impossible to put down.  I only have two complaints about it.  The first is the fact that the first chapter takes place only a year after the end of the movie.  However, once we're through there, we get thrown 12 years into the future.  We are given these characters as they are and the reasons for their personality changes are not clearly explained until later in the book.  What has happened to the world?  What has happened during that time?  These things are not explained right away.  It makes the reading a little frustrating.  Second, Claremont sometimes lets his descriptions get away from him and they begin to take on a life all their own.  Once a description of a scene becomes too long, it begins to lose both its meaning and its effectiveness.  Other than that, I thought this book was really well done.	2000-10-31
US	52803202	RR66U0NFP5HQ9	0886774268	749466176	Magic's Price (The Last Herald-Mage Series, Book 3)	Books	3	3	6	N	N	A disappointment after the first two.	This is the third book in THE LAST HERALD MAGE trilogy (following MAGIC'S PAWN and MAGIC'S PROMISE).  After the first two, I was pretty disappointed.  There is none of the tension of the first book or suspense of the second book.  Everything just seems to happen and then he's going after this antagonist that is even more poorly established than Lackey's usual.  Unlike the previous two books, I felt nothing for the characters in this book.  The story was interesting, but it needed the antagonist to be more firmly fleshed out and the characters to give us something more to connect with.<br />This book was definitely a let down after the first two books, but it was a somewhat satisfying conclusion to the series.	2000-10-30
US	52803202	R2CNGCJ00VN7II	0886773687	475852404	Armor	Books	4	43	54	N	N	Not quite what I was expecting.	The first 100 pages or so of this book reminded me a lot of STARSHIP TROOPERS and THE FOREVER WAR.  It was a gritty, realistic look at war from the point of view of a grunt soldier.  Very vivid, very compelling, and very exciting.  The first person narration gives us a look inside Felix's head and how he reacts to what is going on around him.<br />Then the author throws us for a loop.  The second part starts out in a prison with the narrator (this part is again in first person) trying to escape.  I was really confused as to how Felix went from being on a battlefield to being stuck in prison.  It takes a while for it to be revealed that this isn't Felix.  It's Jack Crow, an interstellar pirate.  The majority of the rest of the book revolves around him.  I was kind of disappointed in this.  I was much more interested in Felix's story.  Not that Jack Crow isn't an interesting character.  I eventually got into him.  I would have liked, though, to get a clearer picture of his history.  Mr. Steakley left it kind of fuzzy.<br />Despite this disappointment of missing out on Felix's continuing exploits, I was still absorbed in this book.  Mr. Steakley's storytelling abilities carry this book.  His characters are vivid, his dialogue is (usually) great, and the interaction between characters, while sometimes confusing, is entertaining to read.  The middle third of the book was a bit slow, but the excitement of the beginning and end more than made up for it.  If you're looking for a good sci-fi read, this will definitely satisfy you.	2000-10-24
US	52803202	R2CHAVSGZAVEMZ	0451160444	467915322	Christine (Signet)	Books	5	27	31	N	N	To Mr. King:  &quot;WE'RE NOT WORTHY!!!!!&quot;	The two strongest things in Stephen King's writing are his storytelling and his ability to craft vivid, believable characters.  This book is a prime example of both of these talents.  It is the story of Arnie and Dennis, two high school seniors who have been friends since they were five years old.  Arnie has always been the &quot;outcast&quot; kid in school and Dennis has stood up for him countless times.  That friendship is put to the test when Arnie falls in love with Christine, a 1958 Plymouth Fury in desperate need of restoration.  The purchase of the car puts a strain on Arnie's relationship with everyone around him, including Dennis.  Their friendship was, in my opinion, the central theme in the book, rather than the supernatural events surrounding Christine.  Those could have been removed entirely from the book and the power of the friendship would still be there.  The story wouldn't be quite as gripping and it wouldn't truly be Stephen King, but it would still be a very good read.<br />The first and third parts of the book were told in the first person narrative from Dennis' point of view.  This made for very powerful reading.  King manages to tweak the readers feelings in exactly the way he wants by doing this.  When Dennis ends up in the hospital for a couple months with a football injury, the narration changes to third person for the middle third.  Although not quite as emotionally powerful as the first and third parts, this section of the book is meaty in its own way.  We see Arnie changing from the shy, &quot;loner&quot; character from the first part  into the nearly unlikeable character in the third part.<br />I think this book has the most depressing ending of all of Stephen King's books (at least of the ones I've read).  The reason for this is the fact that he makes you care for the characters.  The reader wants everything to turn out okay for everybody.  King had no compunction whatsoever about doing things to his characters.  If he'd tied it up ina sappy, &quot;everything's okay&quot; ending, it might not have been as powerful.  Less depressing, but less powerful nonetheless.  This book has jumped to near the top of the list of my favorite Stephen King books.  Highly recommended.	2000-10-20
US	52803202	R1SAXC2346XVFW	1569714649	792536068	Star Wars: Union	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Not as good as most of the comics.	While this was an interesting story to read, it was pretty confusing at times.  There were way too many supporting characters to keep straight and a lot of others that I'd never heard of before.  The artwork was so cluttered and most of the supporting characters looked so similar to each other that it was near impossible to tell who was who.  It also didn't help that the villains in the story looked like the good guys and so you couldn't keep them straight, either.  However, I think Stackpole nailed the characterizations for the main characters...attitudes, facial expressions, emotions.  They were all dead on.  He even got the interplay between R2-D2 and C-3PO right.  Speaking of interplay, I loved the scenes between Mara and Luke.  They were so well done that it made you feel happy to see them together.  Hopefully we'll see them together more in either the comics or the novels.<br />I have yet to read any of Stackpole's Star Wars novels, but if these characterizations are any indication, they should be pretty good.  Unfortunately, the plethora of supporting characters and lackluster artwork made this story almost a headache to read.	2000-10-13
US	52803202	R20D3LXG0S9MJE	0886774012	952247332	Magic's Promise (The Last Herald-Mage Series, Book 2)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	An interesting tale of intrigue.	This is the second book in Lackey's THE LAST HERALD MAGE trilogy. It takes place about 12 years after the end of the first book, MAGIC'S PAWN. This kinda bugged me at first since I would have liked to see Vanyel go through his Mage training. Lackey, however, makes the book so absorbing that I soon forgot about this fact. As usual, the characters in the book are exceptionally vivid. Each has their own personality and really stands out as an individual. I thoroughly enjoyed watching the characters that were in the first book develop as people in this one, especially the relationships between Vanyel and his father and between Vanyel and Jervis.<br />The storyline in this book was quite intriguing and a had a very different flavor from the first book. It dealt with solving a murder and lots of mystery. I wish that Ms. Lackey had decided to delve into the intrigue a little more and truly root out the motivations of the antagonists (which she hardly ever seems to do...that is my only complaint about her writing). The magical elements involved were exciting and I enjoyed the climax and resolution...definitely a happy ending. Lackey fans will love this installment and fantasy fans in general should enjoy it as well.	2000-09-28
US	52803202	R2WBD1MUGQHWK7	0886773520	42355391	Magic's Pawn (The Last Herald-Mage Series, Book 1)	Books	4	0	4	N	N	Started fast, got boring, but ended well.	This is the first book in Mercedes Lackey's THE LAST HERALD-MAGE trilogy.  It is the second series to take place in her land of Valdemar.  It takes place a few hundred years before the ARROWS trilogy, but was written afterward.<br />If I had gone to write a review of this book about halfway through the book, I would have had to give it three stars.  The book started out really well.  The main character was very sympathetic and I kept hoping for him to escape the torturous life he was living.  As usual, Lackey's characters are vivid and engaging.  You actually start to care about them in the first few pages.  Unfortunately, from about page 50 to page 200, not a lot happens.  It's 150 pages of gushing, sappy proclamations of love and arguments of who loves who more.  Yes, this part of the book is vital for setting up what happens afterward, but I think it could have been done in half the space.  After that, though, the action really picks up.  We get to see what the Mage powers truly bring to the characters (in the ARROWS trilogy, no one had Mage powers anymore if I recall correctly).  The book became an absolute page turner after this.<br />As always, Lackey's plot and action are top notch.  This book was definitely a page turner.  Even when there wasn't really anything much happening, I still felt compelled to keep reading in order to find out what was going to happen next.  This is what I like best about the author:  she always knows how to keep the reader engaged in the story.  Definitely an enjoyable read and a must for any Lackey fan.	2000-09-26
US	52803202	R26QJUSOO08Q0H	0553575171	145330012	Planet of Twilight (Star Wars)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Why's everybody complaining?	I don't really get why everybody is giving this book such bad reviews.  I  thoroughly enjoyed reading this book.  It was better than Barbara Hambly's  first attempt, CHILDREN OF THE JEDI, and mcuh better than Vonda McIntyre's  THE CRYSTAL STAR.  There was one reviewer who said that Ms. Hambly didn't  &quot;get&quot; the Star Wars characters.  In my opinion, she nailed  them...especially C-3PO and R2-D2.  The scenes with those two interacting  were hilarious, just like in the movies.  I was literally laughing out  loud.  I was very impressed with the way Ms. Hambly depicted Leia's inner  conflict with accepting the Force as a part of her since it would also mean  accepting Vader as her father.  This was very well done and a very  interesting look at Leia's character.  She also introduced some very cool  concepts into this book:  the crystals on the planet, Dzym, and the Hutt  Jedi were unexpected twists to the Star Wars mythos.  What disappointed me  most about this book was the fact that Han and Chewie were hardly in it.   Only towards the end do we really get a look at them.  Other than that, I  don't really have any complaints about this book.  It was a very well  written, well paced book that most Star Wars fans should enjoy.	2000-09-19
US	52803202	R35N4LBW6PSIUF	074724748X	377810690	A Heroine Of The World	Books	1	6	16	N	N	Unbelievably boring.	This has to be one of the worst books I've ever read.  The blurb on the  back cover made it sound exciting, with a fortune teller showing the main  character that she had a vital part to play in the future of the world.   First of all, the fortune teller didn't come into the picture until almost  100 pages into the book.  Then, the fortune she read was so vague and  confusing, I couldn't even tell what was meant by it.  Finally, not only  was the blurb on the back of the book in no way relevant to the story, but  neither was the title.  Nowhere in the entire book can the main character  be considered heroic.  She never actually DOES anything.  She just allows  herself to be swept along by events.  Throughout the story, nothing she  does is important in terms of affecting anything in terms of &quot;the  world&quot;.  Not only that, but she is just an annoying character.  She is  always whining about her plight, yet she never even tries to better it.   She is a very static character throughout the story.  Not once does she  stand up for herself.<br />I think what I liked even less about the book is  the fact that there was no semblance of a plot.  For 450 pages, the author  goes on an on with, as far as I could tell, no ultimate goal in mind.  Due  to this, there is no climax or resolution, unless you consider a resolution  to be, &quot;they rode of into the sunset and lived happily ever  after&quot;.<br />If this book is any indication of Tanith Lee's writing  style, I will never pick up another one of her books again.	2000-09-13
US	52803202	R10HUD3X4V3OM4	9992059729	768788184	Six of Swords	Books	1	8	15	N	N	Pretty bad.	Somebody gave me this book as a gift.  The synopsis on the back cover was  intriguing.  The idea of a world where magic was disappearing sounded like  it would make a great book.  Unfortunately, while the idea was good, the  execution was terrible.  I almost put this book down several times.  If I  wasn't one of those people who have to finish a book once it's started, I  would have given up early on.  First of all, the writing is dreadful.  I  was so confused at times as to what was going on as well as what was being  talked about.  The interaction of the wooden characters was terrible.  This  included ridiculous sounding dialogue as well as no sense of connection  between the characters.  I didn't know what they were talking about half  the time.  Then there were the author's awful similes and metaphors.   I  have never read anything so artificial...they were so bad that they  actually disrupted the flow of the writing.  My brain would just stumble  over them...I actually went back a few times to make sure I hadn't read  them wrong.  I hadn't.  Throughout the book, there was only a vague sense  of plot.  I kinda knew what the characters were working towards, I just  wasn't sure why.  The reader never gets and understanding of the world or  the motivations of the characters.  It made for very difficult and very  unenjoyable reading.	2000-09-01
US	52803202	R2OH44M42WJI05	0441662250	422842671	Phoenix	Books	4	11	11	N	N	The series really picks up here.	There's something about this book that puts it above the first four in the  series.  I don't know if it was the fact that Brust's writing became better  (I didn't really notice anything different) or that Vlad becomes more of a  dynamic character, but it was more enjoyable than the others.<br />We finally  get to see Vlad doing some real soul searching about what he does for a  living.  We also see more of the agony he is experiencing due to the fact  that his marriage is falling apart.  This makes Vlad a much more three  dimensional character and more enjoyable to read.  I also liked the fact  that, towards the end of the book, we get to know his grandfather a little  better.  I'd love to see him get a bigger part in a future book.<br />The  adventure and suspense in this book have been turned up since the last one.   I found myself unable to put the book down at night.  I always wanted to  see what happened next.  As far as I'm concerned, this is the best book in  the series so far.	2000-08-24
US	52803202	R1OPZIRRBLMS2U	0441182003	554659900	Taltos	Books	3	3	4	N	N	An enjoyable read.	This is the fourth book in the series (after JHEREG, YENDI, and TECKLA).   So far, I've found this series to be thoroughly enjoyable, but nothing to  really rave about.  They stand out because of their uniqueness.  Yes, it's  different, but it's pretty straightforward.  I'm not saying that the books  aren't good, they most definitely are, but they're not up to the caliber of  Martin or Jordan or Goodkind.  This book is more of the same.<br />This time,  we get to look in on probably the earliest of Vlad's adventures.  The first  three books had references to him walking the Paths of the Dead.  Well,  this book chronicles that adventure.  As usual, Mr. Brust fills the book  with excellent dialog.  Also as usual, Vlad's wisecracking gets him in  trouble.  We see Vlad meeting, for the first time, Morrolan, Sethra Lavode,  and Aliera.  We get to meet them before Vlad was friends with them.  Pretty  interesting.  <br />If you're a Brust fan, you'll like this book.  If you're a  fantasy fan, this is a very different book:  different in pace, in  characters, and in storytelling.  If you want to get into it, though, I'd  suggest starting with the first book in the series as it provides a  significant amount of background that's pretty important.	2000-08-21
US	52803202	R212658AQA3BI2	0441031161	650494296	The Ash Staff (A Magic Quest Book Series No 4)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	As good as I remember.	I first read this book about 10 to 15 years ago when I was pretty young.  Unfortunately, I didn't remember the author's name or the title of the  book.  I happened across it in a used bookstore and the title and cover  tugged at my memory.  Sure enough, it was the book I had enjoyed so much  all those years before.<br />The characters aren't very well developed and the  storyline is really fast paced and simplistic, but I still enjoyed reading  it again.  Maybe it was just nostalgia.  Anyway, I think it's a very  enjoyable book.  Younger kids will love it, while adults may find that it  reminds them of some of the fantasy books they read as children.<br />If  you're looking for a quick read that doesn't require too much  concentration, this book will fulfil your every need.	2000-08-15
US	52803202	RRDUIB4OXG8KI	0446325538	781586970	Shadowkeep	Books	3	3	3	N	N	An enjoyable read.	I've never heard of the game SHADOWKEEP, but I found this book in a  quarter bin and decided to pick it up.  First off, let me say that this  book reads like one of those old adventure games:  very straightforward and  linear.  It has no plot twists or complicated character interactions.  The  characters move from one locale to another without having to make any  really difficult decisions.  Mr. Foster did an excellent job of taking  these two dimensional computer game characters and bringing them to life in  a vivid, enjoyable way.  Their interactions with each other were amusing at  times and almost poignant at others.<br />The storyline was really simple, but  thoroughly enjoyable.  Good versus evil in a story where failure will  result in the end of the world.  Nothing deep or intellectual about it;  just a romping adventure.  A good book for a plane trip in that it doens't  really take all that much concentration or thought to enjoy and it was very  fast paced.	2000-08-07
US	52803202	R2D9F502F2DY4B	0449227421	922959758	The Third Twin	Books	4	3	4	N	N	I couldn't put it down!	This being the first book by Ken Follett that I've read, I was pleasantly  entertained.  From the beginning of the book, I had a very hard time  putting it down at night.  The mysteries just kept piling up and I had to  know what happened.  The cliffhanger endings at the end of each chapter  didn't help much either.<br />The characterization for the protagonists of the  book were pretty good.  I actually cared about what happened to them.  I  wanted them to get out of the mess they were in and be able to live happy  lives.  My main problem with this book were the two dimensional  antagonists.  They seemed to have no redeeming qualities whatsoever.  Don't  get me wrong, I hated them with a passion and I suppose that was the  reaction that Follett was trying to engender, but a villain is always so  much better when he has something that the reader can identify with.   Unless you're a white supremacist, you won't be able to identify with any  part of these guys.<br />I have to say that this was a very entertaining read.   Yes, there was a certain required amount of suspension of disbelief  required, but that was also the case in Michael Crichton's JURASSIC PARK.   Both books are very good, even though there are parts that aren't very  realistic.  It's the realism surrounding the unbelievable that makes it so  good.  I'd recommend this book to any one of my reading friends.	2000-08-04
US	52803202	R39SDGZYWL4WG0	0812534042	192302546	The Order War (Recluce series, Book 4)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Much better!	This, the fourth book in the series (after THE MAGIC OF RECLUCE, TOWERS OF  THE SUNSET, and THE MAGIC ENGINEER), is a vast improvement over the others.   The pacing in this book was so much better.  The other three had large  sections in the middle where nothing really happened, at least in terms of  plot progression.  This book has slow areas, but they were the slow areas  of mostly any other good book out there.  They were used for character  development rather than for philosophy, as in the first three books.  In  addition to the better pacing, Modesitt has cut down on the utterly  confusing leaps of intuition that were a glaring mark throughout the first  three books.<br />Modesitt's characterizations continue to be very strong  here.  All of the characters in his books are believable and the villains  are not just some two dimensional cardboard cutout.  I think the  characterizations are the strongest part of Modesitt's writing.  Since  there's not always a lot of action, the growth of the characters is what  keeps my attention in these books.<br />Modesitt continues to build a vivid,  interesting world.  I can't wait to find out what this &quot;Legend&quot;  he keeps talking about really is.  The only real shortcoming of this book  is the lack of maps so I can figure out where the heck the characters are  in relation to places they've been!	2000-08-04
US	52803202	R2LH2R8U5FK5VM	055357910X	69307456	Meg: A Novel of Deep Terror	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Gripping!	This book was both average and excellent.  I wanted to give it only three stars because of the anemic supporting character development and the sometimes weak plot progression.  On the other hand, I wanted to give it  five stars for grabbing me by the throat and not letting go!  I settled on  four.<br />While the main character was fleshed out pretty well, the  supporting characters were two dimensional and clunky.  The reader never  gets a handle on their motivations.  They just seem to be along for the  ride.  This, I thought, was one of the problems with the plot progression.   Due to the weak characters, the story seemed artificial at times.  It was  as if the author was forcing it forward rather than just letting it  happen.<br />However, this was offset by the fact that, by page 2, I was  thoroughly absorbed in the book.  I didn't want to put it down until I  finished it.  I just had to see what happened next.  Granted, some of the  things that did happen seemed forced at times, but the action was so good,  it was mostly unnoticeable.<br />The climax was slightly unbelievable, but the  sheer audacity of the main character forced a suspension of disbelief.  The  only other thing I didn't like was the very ending of the book.  It seemed  kind of abrupt.  I think the book would have benefited from an epilogue.   Other than that, I think this was a good book and would recommend it to  most anyone.	2000-07-21
US	52803202	R28632TUCU3Z8J	0345396537	855284075	First King of Shannara	Books	5	19	25	N	N	Brooks has still got it.	After the HERITAGE OF SHANNARA series, I was afraid that Brooks had lost  his touch with that world.  This book proves otherwise.  It tells a story  of the past and does it well.  Like the first &quot;trilogy&quot;, this  book gets the reader involved emotionally.  You care about the  characters...deeply, or at least I did.  It tugged on my heartstrings and  made my spine tingle throughout.<br />The pacing is also very good.  The book  starts out quickly and continues at a breakneck pace.  Not that there isn't  time for introspection...there's a lot of that, but not an overabundance.   It's definitely a page turner.<br />I think I would have appreciated it more  if it hadn't been so many years since I'd read the other books.  There's  such a sense of history here and Brooks works in a lot of foreshadowing of  the other books.  Unfortunately, I didn't remember details enough to fully  appreciate all of it.<br />The one thing that bothered me about this book was  the lack of a map.  I got confused sometimes as to where certain characters  were in relation to others.  Aside from that, this was a very satisfying  read.	2000-07-10
US	52803202	R1ZEKPP7ES4QYE	034543014X	544398776	The Princess Bride: S. Morgenstern's Classic Tale of True Love and High Adventure (The 25th Anniversary Edition)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A romping tale of love and adventure!	William Goldman spins a good yarn!  I loved the way he wrapped the story with the narration of how it came into being...from his father reading it to him to having his own son try to read it.  AHA!  His father had been  abridging it the whole time!<br />The story had elements that were different  from the movie (which I've seen dozens of times), but the storyline itself  was still the same.  I enjoyed the more detailed backstory on Inigo and  Fezzik and would have liked to see the same treatment for Vizzini...but I  guess Morgenstern decided not to include it :)  It's full of swordfights  and suspense that keeps you turning pages.  I could not put it  down...finished it in a couple of days.  I just had to see what happened  next even though I pretty much knew from the movie.  That shows just how  well it's written.<br />This isn't one of those deep, epic fantasies that  occur so often today (Jordan, Goodkind, Martin).  It is, instead, rather  lighthearted (most of the time anyway).  This makes it unique and a  wonderful read.  I really recommend it.	2000-07-03
US	52803202	R3B9MVGAZ8426B	0451170113	722345215	Night Shift (Signet)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Most were good, a few were disappointing.	Stephen King is one of my favorite authors.  This is only the second book of short stories that I've read by him.  The other is NIGHTMARES &amp; DREAMSCAPES.  This one was much better.  In King's novels, he takes a long  time to set up the story and build the characters.  In his short stories,  he doesn't have that luxury, but he still manages to do both beautifully.   The characters are vivid and the stories progress smoothly, just pulling  you in.  My favorites were JERUSALEM'S LOT, TRUCKS, CHILDREN OF THE CORN,  and ONE FOR THE ROAD.  Then there was QUITTERS, INC. which was quite  Hitchcockian...totally unexpected stuff.  Even the ones that I didn't care  for too much were well done.  This is a must read for any King fan and I  also recommend it to anybody looking for a good scare.	2000-06-27
US	52803202	R1F9AWNN21Y6IM	0812564375	666062148	Mount Dragon	Books	5	10	10	N	N	I could not put this book down.	Preston and Child really know how to take the reader on a roller coaster ride.  I finished this book in a couple of days...mainly because I found it extremely difficult to put down.  At the end of each chapter, I wanted to  keep reading so I could find out what happened next.  These two are  becoming a couple of my favorite authors.<br />The biohazard novel is nothing  new.  However, these two authors have managed to transform it into a  gripping, realistic story.  They are similar to Michael Crichton in that  they take actual science, stretch the bounds of reality a little, and come  up with something so believable that it's scary.  The story they've crafted  around the science is a wonder to read.  The characters are believable, the  story is gripping, and the climax is fulfilling.  I would recommend this  book to anybody who's into science thrillers or action movies.	2000-06-26
US	52803202	R2FC9DYOO5ZUC8	0380708213	223407615	The Forever War	Books	5	45	57	N	N	A masterpiece.	This is an interesting dichotomy...the book is straightforward with simplistic writing.  It's easy to understand and a joy to read.  At the same time, I'd have to consider it a literary masterpiece.  Haldeman's  first person account of war (futuristic, galactic war) is an effective,  emotional book that drags you in and won't let go.  The first person  approach lets you really sympathize with the main character and also  illustrates the chaos of a battlefield.  The tribulations that the main  character goes through shows just how impersonal the military is.  The army  owns this man...he has no control over his ultimate destiny.  He is a G.I.:   Government Issue.  The government/military issue him his life.  It reminds  me of a quote from Damon Wayans' MAJOR PAYNE:  &quot;If the Marines wanted  me to have a wife, they'd'a issued me one.&quot;<br />I've heard that Haldeman  wrote this book as an allegory for the Vietnam War.  I never got the chance  to study that period of time very well, but I can assume he hit the mark  from what I do know.<br />Aside from the literary value of this book, it is a  romping sci-fi novel that grabs you by the scruff of the neck and doesn't  let go.  A very enjoyable read.	2000-06-26
US	52803202	R2TMQVII5R0B1O	0812534050	551495323	The Magic Engineer ( A novel in The saga of Recluce)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	I enjoyed reading this.	Since the first book, Modesitt's writing has been getting better and better.  By that, I mean his characters are being developed better and his storytelling was improving.  The confusion I felt reading the first book  has slowly decreased throughout the series.  This book was on the verge of  earning four stars.<br />The character development in this book was better  than the first two installments in the Recluce series.  I found myself  caring for what happened to them.  I still think the story gets a little  slow in the middle of the book (the same is true for the first two).  It's  almost as if the author has a hard time developing characters and  furthering the plot at the same time.  The first third sets up the story  and introduces the plot, the middle third is all character development with  hardly any plot, and the last third contains most of the plot as well as  the climax (in this case, there were two climaxes...I'm still trying to  figure out which was the main one) and resolution.<br />Overall, I really  enjoyed this book.  It seemed to get a little slow in the middle, but  seeing the characters grow was almost worth it.  With the improvement in  this book, the next one is that much more enticing.  I'm really getting  into the story he's trying to tell in the series.	2000-06-19
US	52803202	R131PCB8U3Y0XB	0761906347	245991845	Images of Organization	Books	3	10	14	N	N	Started out good, but got hard to follow.	This book is quite accessible to the reader.  It's not dry like most textbooks, but talks about organizations in a straightforward manner.  Morgan presents various ways of looking at organizations through the use of  metaphors.<br />This is what made the book so good.  Each chapter examines a  different metaphor applied to organization.  Metaphors such as &quot;...as  machines&quot;, and &quot;...as brains&quot; shed light on different  aspects of organizations.  What makes the book even better is that, in the  summary of each chapter, Morgan also looks at the weaknesses of each  metaphor, thus giving the reader a very thorough examination of the  concept.<br />The reason I didn't give this book 4 stars was the fact that,  later in the book, it got kind of hard to follow.  By the time he got to  &quot;Organizations as Psychic Prisons&quot;, I was way out of my league.   The chapters got convoluted and hard to understand.  The chapter summaries  ended up being half as long as the chapter itself.  I just kind of gave up  on some of them...they weren't helping me at all.<br />All in all, if you want  to learn about how organizations work, this is a very good book, but be  wary of the last third or so.	2000-06-09
US	52803202	R2E8GSJ2JTNYEJ	0256208077	512129284	Management and Organizational Behavior	Books	2	8	8	N	N	Not worth it at half the price.	This book is outrageously overpriced. <br />The major problem is that the authors drone on and on in each chapter about the same  stuff.  Most of the chapters would have been sufficient at half of their 30  page length.  After about 15 pages and the third repetition of stuff that's  already been explained, my brain started to wander.  I'd have to go back  and force myself to pay attention to what was being said.<br />Another major  problem is the utter lack of editing performed.  The sentence structure  throughout the book is terrible.  The syntax and choice of words is  confusing.  I'd have to re-read certain sentences several times before I  could understand what the authors were trying to say.  The English in  general is also bad.  Over and over, there were sentences that started with  &quot;But...&quot;.  Then there were times when verbs were used as nouns,  which is acceptable, but, because of the terrible sentence structure, it  looked like they were being used as verbs.  This made it almost impossible  to read.<br />The only reason this book didn't get one star was the fact that  some of the information was actually useful.  The majority of the book,  however, was just droll, boring repetition of stuff I didn't need to know  in order to grasp the concepts.  It also needed to have more concrete  examples of stuff.  It started out doing that well, but, by chapter 6 or 7,  it just became too abstract.  There must be a better book out there on this  subject.	2000-05-29
US	52803202	R38T1PK93RUGZ9	0812519671	45577249	The Towers of the Sunset (Recluce series, Book 2)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	His writing's improving.	Okay, I was only confused for the first ten pages or so of this book.  Unlike the first book of this series, The Magic of Recluce, where I was confused by stuff throughout the story, I mainly figured out the stuff that  was going on after the first ten pages.  Unfortunately, he never explains  what really happened in the first five pages.  Who were those two wizards  talking?  Why did they send the bard to Westwind?  Later on, of course, I  couldn't figure out why the Whites were after Creslin in the first place.   How did they even know about him?<br />Modesitt has some very good ideas for  this series.  He just needs to make some of it more understandable for the  reader.  All this confusing hinting at things that we can never figure out  detract from the overall story.  Not to mention the fact that he wrote this  book in the present tense, which got kind of distracting.<br />This is an  enjoyable book, but it does have a few weaknesses.  Hopefully, his writing  will continue to improve and the stories will become more enjoyable  throughout the rest of the series.	2000-05-15
US	52803202	R1B0V9UJDWQGHD	0812505182	465915454	The Magic of Recluce (Recluce series, Book 1)	Books	3	13	17	N	N	Confusing sometimes	This book had an interesting plot and storyline.  Modesitt's unique study of the relationships between good/evil and order/chaos set the book apart from other fantasy books.<br />One of the major problems I had with this book  was that some stuff didn't make sense.  I mean, characters kept talking  about &quot;blackstaffs&quot;, but it was never explained what they were.   Also, how did Lerris, the main character, figure out some of the feats of  magic that he performed without anyone teaching him?  I can't possibly be  intuitive based on how the magic system was being explained.  Lerris also  seemed arrive at conclusions that, to me, seemed impossible to reach.  For  example, all of a sudden he &quot;realizes&quot; that Justen is his uncle.   WHAT!   How in the heck did he come to that conclusion!   There were no  hints or anything.  He just thought to himself, &quot;Oh yeah, he must be  my uncle.&quot;  Whatever.  Finally, Modesitt's system of measurement was  kind of strange.  He used cubits as the main measurement of length.  The  way he defined this was by saying that a tall person is about 2 cubits  tall.  However, later on, Lerris is looking at a wall that he thinks is  insignificant, but is 40 cubits high.  Okay, if a tall person is, say, six  feet tall and that's 2 cubits, then a 40 cubit wall would be 120 feet tall.   How is that insignificant?<br />Anyway, aside from these inconsistencies,  this is still an entertaining book.  Lerris is a very down to earth  character who is passionate and caring.  His struggle on his  &quot;dangergeld&quot; is a rousing tale of good versus evil, even if the  good guy doesn't always know what he's doing :)  Not on par with Goodkind  or Jordan, but a rousing tale nontheless.	2000-05-04
US	52803202	R36VAX04WQPQND	0930289455	837360744	Batman: The Killing Joke	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Moore just nails the Joker.	I've found that sometimes writers have a hard time getting a grip on writing the Joker as a character.  Alan Moore has no problem with that!  His portrayal of Batman and Commissioner Gordon are also right on.  This is  the story that led to Barbara Gordon (the daughter, not the mother)  becoming Oracle.  Bravo to Mr. Moore for such a captivating and absorbing  story!	2000-04-28
US	52803202	R2FUYETAX378BV	0345387341	968223686	The Warrior's Tale	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A romping adventure tale.	This is one of those average fantasy books that one picks up to get away from the heavy prose, thick character development, and ongoing sagas of authors such as Martin, Goodkind, and Jordan.  It's a pretty  straightforward story with light character development.  The world is  vividly imaginative and interesting.  This will never be on a MUST READ  list, but it's an enjoyable read.	2000-04-28
US	52803202	RHXQX3FDUE4CS	0804115486	335815295	Enigma	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Anticlimactic ending	When I first picked up this book, I thought the main focus would be on actually cracking the Enigma code.  However, as the books starts, we learn that the Enigma code has already been cracked, but that the Germans have changed the key for one of the smaller portions of it.  Thus, the code for  the U-boats is no longer known.  Unfortunately, this also is not the main  thrust of the book.<br />As it turns out, the main plot is trying to uncover  the traitor within the system.  Once I got over that initial  disappointment, I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  Robert Harris knows how to  grab a reader's attention and then keep it.  I finished this book in two  nights...I just had to see how it ended.  That was the only  letdown.<br />After all the intrigue and adrenalin, the ending seemed  anticlimactic.  Although it was pretty well wound up, I just felt kind of  flat after finishing.  &quot;That's it?&quot; was my first reaction.  I  couldn't understand why he'd ended the book that way.  Oh well...his  prerogative, I guess.  Still, it was a very good book.  I highly recommend  it.	2000-04-27
US	52803202	R2R2CRZ2XQIYD5	0345387023	714290446	Witches' Brew (The Magic Kingdom of Landover, Book 5)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Not as good as the others.	I was a bit disappointed in this installment of the Landover saga.  I felt that it didn't live up to the standard set by the previous four.  Ben Holiday seemed a bit out of character in that he didn't even think of  Nightshade as being part of the picture.  That doesn't sound like him at  all...he would never overlook her, no matter how long she'd been gone.   Still, it was an enjoyable book, but I still prefer the others.	2000-04-25
US	52803202	R3QCVTNX2HMLA	055327418X	610668604	Startide Rising (The Uplift Saga, Book 2)	Books	2	4	17	N	N	Ugh!	Boy, was this book a disappointment.  300 pages of characterization and situational development!  Why did it take so long!  It could have been done in half that many pages!  And then the resolution was way too short!  I  would have loved to see what happened beyond Mr. Brin's ending.  He should  have taken those 150 pages he didn't need for setup and used them to expand  the resolution.  For pages and pages, I was like, &quot;Ugh, enough with  the dolphin-speak and the reiteration that there's something strange about  the planet!  Get on with the story!&quot;  It was so frustrating.<br />Now I'm  wary of picking up the next book in the series, The Uplift War.  If it's as  slow as this one, I'm not looking forward to it.	2000-04-21
US	52803202	R1CASDSOVN6QYD	0553269828	224417303	Sundiver (The Uplift Saga, Book 1)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A vivid imagination has Mr. Brin	This is the second book by David Brin that I've read.  The first, which got me loving his writing, was The Postman.  Sundiver is the first book written in the world of Uplift and the Five Galaxies.  Brin's vivid  imagination creates numerous alien races and ideas that keep the reader  involved in the book.  The twists and turns keep the reader waiting on the  edge of their seat to see what comes next.  A very enjoyable read.	2000-04-17
US	52803202	R2WTQ1C8WS4TI2	0440435749	989777565	The High King (Pyrdain Chronicles)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good ending to a good series.	What a satisfying conclusion.  For a few pages there, I thought I was going to be really upset at the ending.  Alexander really made me care for the characters throughout the series.  You can also tell a big difference  between the characters at the beginning of the series and at the end.   They've grown and matured and their world views have changed.  All in all,  a very good series.	2000-04-12
US	52803202	R3CUQOAHHXU2EN	0440484839	12674303	Taran Wanderer (Pyrdain Chronicles)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Change of pace.	Things slowed down a bit here from his last book.  I would have liked to see more of the conflict with Morda...it just seemed to get resolved too easily.  No Eilonwy, either, but I guess she would have hindered the story that Mr. Alexander was trying to tell here.  It was more a story of growth for Taran.  We'll see what happens in Book 5, The High King.	2000-04-11
US	52803202	R2BHE4H71VXY9	0440406498	711445845	The Black Cauldron (Pyrdain Chronicles)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	More engaging than the first.	This book held my attention more closely than the first.  Mr. Alexander's characterization become stronger and the story was more compelling than in The Book of Three (Book 1 of The Prydian Chronicles).  A rousing adventure  of betrayal and redemption!	2000-04-09
US	52803202	R1KBW8XWFDYZKM	0440407028	159056506	The Book of Three (Pyrdain Chronicles)	Books	3	1	5	N	N	Enjoyable	The Book of Three was an enjoyable, quick read.  Astraightforward sword and sorcery adventure.  Fast paced, easy to read.  Perfect for younger readers.	2000-04-07
US	52803202	R20Z5QC0K0EIY5	1560760478	246260210	Sojourn: The Dark Elf Trilogy, Part 3 (Forgotten Realms: The Legend of Drizzt, Book III)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Salvatore continues to impress!	Drizzt Do'Urden must be one of the most vivid and well fleshed out characters in all of fantasy.  There are many depths to the character...he's a warrior, a philosopher, and a humanitarian.  It's Salvatore's characterization that makes his books so compelling.  If you  haven't read any of them, you're missing out.	2000-04-04
US	52803202	R3OVUJFWYQ1916	0880389206	5618724	Exile: Forgotten Realms (The Dark Elf Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Another outstanding Drizzt Do'Urden book	Mr. Salvatore continues to impress me with his vivid characterization and fast paced action.  A small dose of philosophy rounds it out nicely.  This book was a page turner...just two nights of reading to get through.  All of the hours enjoyable.  A must read for Salvatore fans.	2000-04-03
US	52803202	RUS7UEDDCNBML	0553573314	199085075	The Diamond Age	Books	1	12	44	N	N	Ugh!  What a waste of 8 hours!	When I picked up this book, I was hoping that it wasn't as confusing and as hard to follow as William Gibson's Neuromancer.  I was pleasantly engaged by the first half of the book.  Wonderful world building, attention  to detail, and captivating characters.  Unfortunately, it went downhill  from there.<br />After the halfway point, the book lost what little semblance  of a plot it had to begin with.  There seemed to be no motivation behind  the characters actions.  We seem to just be looking in on segments of  peoples' lives with no ultimate goal in mind.  At the end, there was no  climax and no resolution.  It was as if Mr. Stephenson couldn't figure out  how to finish the book and so just stopped writing at the end of a random  chapter.  I finished the last page and, literally, asked myself, &quot;What  the hell was that! &quot;  I felt like Mr. Stephenson had just wasted 8  hours of my life.  What a disappointment!	2000-03-31
US	52803202	R34SHSV9WTFZ5W	0812551494	828152800	Soul of the Fire (Sword of Truth, Book 5)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Could have been better.	If not for the last 200 pages of this book, I would have given it only 3 stars.  Goodkind took the first 500 pages of the book to set up the last 200, which I couldn't put down.  This seems a little excessive.  It  probably could have been done in half of that and still been as  effective.<br />As usual, however, Mr. Goodkind's writing is very compelling.   Even though most of the book was spent on introducing new characters and a  new country in the Midlands, it was still a book that was difficult to put  down.  I just wish more time had been spent with Richard and Kahlan.<br />One  other letdown was that the resolution was pretty quick and not explained  very well.  I just finished it last night...I may have to go back and  re-read that part, just so I can understand it better.  Goodkind usually  does a better job than that.<br />I am just hoping that the next book is back  up to his usual level of excellence.	2000-03-21
US	52803202	R19YG3G9IKEAU1	0425105334	122553244	The Talisman	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Oh wow!	When I started reading this book, I wasn't sure what to expect (the back cover really doesn't tell much about it).  However, being a huge Stephen King fan (I've never read anything by Peter Straub), I kinda knew what tone to expect.  This book is amazing.  The concept, while not really novel, has  been given a spin that only Mr. King could impart.  I could hardly put it  down for the last 2/3 of the book.  The only thing that bothered me was  that the 12 year old main character didn't THINK like a 12 year old...he  thought more like a 16 year old.  Oh well, it was still an amazing book.	2000-03-14
US	52803202	R2HCT4R16FIFED	044185429X	179165246	A Child Of Elvish	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Another book that shouldn't be out of print!	Ms. Berberick's characterization gets a lot stronger in this sequel to Jewels of Elvish.  The story wasn't quite as exciting, but still really good.  This, like the first book, really shouldn't be out of print.  I had to hunt for months at several used bookstores before I was able to find  them.  If you find them, grab 'em...quickly.	2000-03-07
US	52803202	R3SWJETWY99CNI	0451822196	346025288	Cycle of the Werewolf (Signet)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Wow!	Fast paced and gripping.  This is a very unique King book.  He just jumps right into the action on this one.  I normally don't care for illustrated books (unless they're comic books :), but Bernie Wrightson's work did nothing but improve the effectiveness of this work of art.  I liked the way  the chapters corresponded to the months of the year (i.e., the werewolf  only comes once a month because the moon is only truly full once a month).	2000-03-07
US	52803202	RGSO0RZDA0J3H	0880387262	86823812	Jewels of Elvish	Books	4	8	11	N	N	This book is out of print!	I can't believe no one is publishing this duology (with A Child of Elvish) right now.  I had to search all over in used bookstores before I was able to find it.  Does that tell me that it's really good because no one wants  to part with it or that it's no good and I can't find it because there  aren't many copies around?<br />Personally, I really enjoyed it.  The first  third or so was a little weakly written, but then Miss Berberick found her  stride.  Vivid characters, an exciting plot, and just enough hints about a  mystery here and there to keep the reader engaged.  I found it very  difficult to put this book down at night.  I would recommend this to any of  my fantasy reading friends, but good luck finding a copy.	2000-03-03
US	52803202	R2NS9ZSUUH4COA	0679781587	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Closer to four than to three stars.	I would have given this book 3.5 stars if it was possible, but I guess it deserved four.  It is a very captivating look into the private lives of geisha just before WWII.  Mr. Golden manages to pull this off beautifully.  Not exactly a page turner, but a wonderful book to read.  Bravo!	2000-02-23
US	52803202	R3OIG6U9ER4K3U	0345322401	193021593	The Songs of Distant Earth	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Sir Clarke has definitely done better.	After reading 2001, 2010, 2061, the Rama series, and Fountains of Paradise, I was expecting a lot more from this book.  Not that it wasn't good; I enjoyed reading it.  Unfortunately, it wasn't up to Sir Clarke's  usual fare...character development was a little weak, there didn't seem to  be an ultimate goal to the story (and this is reflected in the fact that  there isn't really any climax), and he seemed to let the ending kind of  dribble out.  Overall, I would recommend that people pick up the books I've  mentioned above rather than this one...they are much better.	2000-02-15
US	52803202	RAKM82X4NLEQG	0553565214	586895703	Daggerspell (Deverry Series, Book One)	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Enjoyable, but drags in places.	This entire series had a lot of potential.  It just didn't live up to it.  Katharine Kerr dwells on some mundane stuff and skims over the exciting parts.  The flashbacks got kind of annoying after a while, too, especially  when they interrupted scenes that I was really enjoying.  At times, they  didn't seem to have anything to add to the story, either.  An interesting  story overall, but there's stuff out there that's a lot better.	2000-02-01
US	52803202	R3BVM7WWER65TB	0140444173	748295604	War and Peace (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	It IS long, but well worth it.	Being one of the longest books I have ever read, this is also one of the best.  Tolstoy's characterization is very good.  His usage of alternating  chapters of war and peace was very effective in making each seem the polar  opposite of the other.  Of course, he also ties things together that show  how each front affects the other.  If you have the time and patience and a  love for classical literature, this book is a must read.	1999-10-26
US	52803202	RJLRQFQC7EFWB	0345339681	669379389	The Hobbit	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A setup for Lord of the Rings, but awesome all on its own.	Lord of the Rings being Tolkien's masterpiece, The Hobbit often gets overlooked.  However, in this book, the reader gets the introduction to  such important characters as Gandalf and Bilbo as well as the realm of  Middle Earth.  We also see where Bilbo acquires The Ring...all important  things in understanding the motivations in The Lord of the Rings.  This  book must be read before LotR.  One of the defining pieces of modern  fantasy work.	1999-10-26
US	52803202	R138KSYZMZLGZO	0886773784	907791687	Arrows of the Queen ( The Heralds of Valdemar, Book 1)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A great intro to Ms. Lackey's books.	Never having read anything by Mercedes Lackey, I wanted to start with the first one.  Lo and behold, it was a wonderful experience.  Unlike a lot of  fantasy, there wasn't much action in this series, but the character  development was unsurpassed.  Each character was unique and Ms. Lackey  showed great ability in their interactions.  The lack of action was more  than made up for by the political intrigue and she actually makes you care  for the main character and feel for her plight.  All in all, a very good  book.	1999-10-26
US	52803202	R3NMDIPF1A77OW	0061054577	596062553	Hunter of the Light	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Started slow, but then I couldn't put it down!	The first 1/3 to 1/2 of this book was a little bit slow.  I think a lot of it was the fact that I had to keep flipping back to the glossary to find out how to pronounce all the Irish words:  cities, people, things.  This  made it difficult.  However, after about the first 200-300 pages, I found  it very difficult to put down.  The character development left a little to  be desired, but the overall story was great.  A very satisfying ending.	1999-06-23
US	52803202	R17KJCMFSMY3PU	0553571745	336872074	Star Wars: The Crystal Star	Books	3	0	1	N	N	It was only so-so.	The storyline itself left me kinda scratching my head.  It didn't seem like a Star Wars story.  The characterizations were right on, but the story itself was a disappointment	1999-05-26
US	52803202	R1030G39590TI3	0451454162	203213606	Curse of the Mistwraith (Wars of Light and Shadow)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An example of vivid storytelling.	Janny Wurts' world comes to life in this, the first book of the Wars of Light and Shadow.  Her attention to detail is amazing and her knowledge of ships and music make it so much more real.  If you don't like a lot of  prose and description, this book isn't for you.  However, the characters  draw you into the story.  You feel empathy for their suffering, joy at  their triumphs, and you come to despise the villains.  This book sets the  tone for the rest of the series.  I've read them and they do not  disappoint.	1999-05-26
US	52803202	R2RRDBYWGCYJS5	0812550307	638271918	The Fires of Heaven (The Wheel of Time, Book 5)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Second best book in the series.	I'd have to rank this installment just behind the first book.  Jordan's storytelling ability simply shines here.  His interweaving of prophecy and history make this a page-turner.  His look into Aiel society had me  riveted.  They are so intricate and so history-driven, it is amazing!!!   Jordan's use of history and culture throughout the series make this a very  interesting series, even though some of the books can be slow.  Still, this  book makes up for that fact many times over.	1999-01-27
US	52803202	RBNQB4SA9TMFK	0886776686	982596913	The Ruins of Ambrai (Exiles, Vol. 1)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	One of the best fantasy authors today.	Although Melanie Rawn doesn't seem to have the same name recognition as Jordan or Goodkind, she has to be in my top five list of favorite authors.  Her characters are so well written and so three dimensional, it is  astounding.  Her grasp of political intrigue is amazing and really gives a  sense of realism to the story.  The nuances of her systems of magic make  her books all that much more enjoyable to read.   I have yet to read a book  by her that I truly didn't like and this one beats most of them.  I truly  cared about the characters in this book and felt sympathy for their plight.   This is yet another book that I had a hard time putting down.	1999-01-27
US	52803202	RS5WLHMWIJXI0	0886777313	633895046	The Mageborn Traitor (Exiles)	Books	5	4	8	N	N	What more is there to say?	What can I say in this review that I didn't say in my review of The Ruins of Ambrai?  Rawn's lack of compunction about killing off characters makes this book a truly emotional one.  Not to mention the sudden twists of  fortune for the characters that surround them.  The simple realism draws me  back again and again, despite the depression!!!  Rawn is truly one of the  greats in the genre.	1999-01-27
US	52803202	R32O9F4BY6WCB3	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Slow until the last third.	I found this book to be quite slow storywise until about the last third or so.  Not to say that it wasn't enjoyable.  The storytelling and characterization are terrific.  Mr. Martin alludes to things that promise  to make the following books very exciting.  The last couple hundred pages  were simply enthralling.  I couldn't put the book down.  I can't wait for  the second installment!!!	1999-01-27
US	52803202	R1CD02OY67S2ZT	0312890532	479902349	Temple of the Winds (Sword of Truth, Book 4)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Four books and still going strong.	By the fourth book in Robert Jordan's wheel of time series, the story was starting to slow down.  Not so with Goodkind.  He bounces back from a four star outing in Blood of the Fold with this tale of magic and love with the  strong characterization and emotional storytelling that I have come to  expect (and love).  One of the best fantasy series to appear in recent  years.	1999-01-21
US	52803202	R3IGN15283NLQX	0812551478	855284075	Blood of the Fold (Sword of Truth, Book 3)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A dark and graphic novel.	If you thought the first two books in this series had some graphic scenes, you'll be blown away by this one.  Goodkind's trademark characterization and emotional storytelling give this book the same page-turning quality of  the first two.  The storyline wasn't quite as interesting and so it only  gets four stars instead of five.  Still, this is a very enjoyable read.	1999-01-21
US	52803202	RQMX695Q1SAJE	0812548094	939049888	Stone of Tears	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Goodkind's writing just gets better.	I hadn't really heard good things about this book before I picked it up, so I was kind of skeptical about it being as good as the first one.  I was pleasantly surprised.  Goodkind's characterization and writing just get  better in this book.  I almost cried several times.  His imagination seems  boundless...the Old World, the towers, unbelievably original!!!  I loved  it.	1999-01-21
US	52803202	R5BOX8X1LAHVC	0884046818	894828266	Battlefield Earth: A Saga of the Year 3000	Books	5	2	6	N	N	Best SF novel I have ever read.	This has got to be the best science fiction novel I have ever read.  Granted, my usual fare is fantasy, but I have read many a SF book with which to compare this (including Hubbard's Mission Earth decology).  This  is the story of the epic struggle of humanity against the universe.   Fighting back against impossible odds, a small band of humans drives the  technologically advanced aliens that have enslaved them back to their home  planet.  I could not put this book down!!!  A must read for any SF fan.	1999-01-21
US	52803202	RKLXPWQQPET76	0812548051	361278280	Wizard's First Rule (Sword of Truth, Book 1)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	One of the best fantasy books ever	This book has got to be one of the best fantasy books ever written.  I couldn't put it down.  I read the entire 800 or so pages in two sittings.  The second sitting was around 12 hours...time just flew reading this book.   It was impossible to find a place to stop.  I just had to know what  happened next.  Make sure you have the time if you pick this up.	1999-01-21
US	52803202	R3ICIOTNUKO2DV	9995461471	338687294	Dragondoom	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Depressing, but very enjoyable.	Yes, this book is extremely dark and depressing, but that's what makes it so good.  McKiernan's writing makes you care what happens to the characters.  This can be compared to the great Greek tragedies.  Characters  struggle to do what is right, but suffer for it in the end.  Very highly  recommended to any fantasy fan.	1999-01-21
US	52803202	R4I0RHKBFN2MG	0312867875	860649477	Legends: Stories By The Masters of Modern Fantasy	Books	5	0	0	N	N	What an original idea!!!	Granted, I didn't read all of the stories in this book, mainly because I hadn't followed the actual series that they belonged to.  I was very impressed with the ones I did, though.  This probably isn't the book for  people who haven't read any of the series.  While the stories will still be  entertaining, they won't have the same impact.  Goodkind's contribution is  the best in the book, filled with the powerful emotions that are his  standard fare.  The Dark Tower entry by Stephen King is also a fascinating  look at the early journeys of Roland.  For anyone who has read any of these  series, this is a very entertaining choice.	1999-01-21
