US	52802298	RZYH90YQN3QFG	037575993X	713847288	Carry Me Across the Water: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Profound Subtlety	In his Carry Me Across the Water, Ethan Canin enables us to see the profound and indescribable depths of humanity through the most unlikely means. With a non-linear plotline, a snapshot-style narrative, and a protagonist who isn't always the most likeable of men, Canin slowly pulls back the curtain on the life of August Kleinman and a number of life's crucial themes.<br />Unlike many stories that struggle with the inner depths of a life, this is a masterpiece in reduction. By juxtaposing a few brief incidents in August's life, Canin alludes to the many great themes of life without losing us in the inconsequential details. I've noticed from other reviews here that some people feel as though Canin has given us a series of disconnected short stories rather than something complete. To a minimal extent that is true...  much like it is true that all of our lives are really a series of seemingly disconnected events, and a focused plotline is something imposed by writers to make sense of it all. Canin shows us that, if you look closely enough, you might be able to grasp at the depths of life, even without the traditional narrative thread.	2003-11-17
US	52802298	R3V0MV9SEFPBSY	0786886323	399419494	Carter Beats the Devil	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Abracadabra	In Glen David Gold's Carter Beats the Devil, we tread through historical facts to follow the fictional life of Charles Carter. Gold's historical knowledge runs deep, and he expertly weaves this knowledge into his wonderfully written story. However, for me, there were problems.<br />Someone once told me that most writers are either plot-handed or character-handed, much as most of us are right-handed or left-handed. I have a feeling that Gold is a plot-handed writer who desperately wants to be a character-handed writer. The plot is in fact very compelling, complete with interesting twists, turns and roundabouts. The characters, though, seem to be unnaturally following the dictates of the plot, as though Gold's master plan for the novel compelled them to do things that, as developing characters, they would not in fact do. Perhaps because of this, Gold's characters are more like archetypes, and at times, stereotypes. For example, the antagonist (or one of them) is a mustache-twisting magician, with absolutely no minor redeeming traits or contradictions, making him completely unbelievable to my ear. Even Carter himself rings hollow at times, serving more as a vehicle to advance the plot than a living, breathing person.<br />Nevertheless, Gold's story is masterful on several fronts. The writing is impeccable. The plot is engrossing. The details are fascinating. The magic sequences are both revealing and exhilirating. While Gold's novel may not stand the test of time, it is a fine and diverting read.	2003-09-11
US	52802298	R1B8GG2KVDTT18	0375724834	352044771	Motherless Brooklyn	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Reinventing a Genre	We're all familiar with the conventions of the hard-boiled detective genre:  men of few words, fisticuffs in back alleys, rougue cops, mysterious women with long legs and dark secrets, and so forth. In this brilliant novel, Lethem has turned all of these conventions on their ear. Instead of a man of few words, our protagonist (Lionel Essrog) is a man of too many words... he has Tourette's Syndrome.<br />The ordinary detective slowly uncovers clues through a mixture of intimidation and verbal trickery. Lionel, on the other hand, is ridiculed or roughed up by nearly everyone he meets. And still he brilliantly tracks down leads and uses his apparent weaknesses to his advantage. All other conventions are also reversed. Dark secrets turn out to be less dark than we imagined. Instead of being coy and mysterious, the women practice Zen and say what they mean.<br />Lethem has done an excellent job of replicating the tension, pace, and intrique of the very best detective novels, but he has done so in a way that no one else has before. And the brilliant writing and masterful descriptions of New York City make it easy to see why this novel has garnered so much praise from people and publications that ordinarily don't care much for genre writing.<br />Fans of the genre, read this book to get a taste of something wonderfully different. Fans of literature, read this book to experience the very best of the detective genre. Also, if you liked this book, try Martin Amis's NightTrain.	2003-09-11
US	52802298	R297B3J07C029I	0374176744	930001307	The Inferno of Dante: A New Verse Translation, Bilingual Edition (Italian Edition)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Hell Exists Only In The Details	This is, by far, the finest English translation of Dante's immortal epic, The Inferno. Several other translations are littered with inaccuracies, stilted sentences, and inept metaphors, all because the translator was set on strictly maintaining Dante's original terza rima structure. Perhaps this is a matter of taste, but personally I prefer to read a translation that rigorously attempts to recreate the nuances of Dante's tale rather than a translation that attempts to recreate his rhyme scheme (invariably at the expense of the story itself). Pinsky's translation is as flawless and artful as is humanly possible, recreating the story's approachability... an approachability that was of prime importance to Dante but was not to most of his translators over the years. Nicole Pinsky also deserves a great deal of credit for the book's outstanding notes.	2003-08-03
US	52802298	REKD0OABWV27Y	0805054081	156310833	The Book of Illusions: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Deceptions	Paul Auster--writer, director, and one-time actor (look for his cameo in The Music of Chance)--has written another masterpiece with The Book of Illusions. For years, Auster has been plying audiences with the tricks of the postmodern  trade: metafiction, hypertextual references, self-referentiality. Instead of encouraging the reader to lose him/herself in the text, his novels never let you forget that you are reading a work of fiction. In the hands of a lesser writer, this would make for a miserable reading experience, but Auster uses postmodernism as a tool to find deeper meaning, not merely as the literary equivalent of pyrotechnics.<br />It is hard to say much about The Book of Illusions without revealing too much, but on the surface the book is about a college professor who has lost his entire family to a plane crash, and in order to escape his thoughts of suicide he immerses himself in an in-depth study of Hector Mann, an old silent-film comedian who has not been seen or heard from in well over half a century. But when he turns the fruits of his depression into a book about Mann's films and gets an invitation to meet this virtuoso of the silver screen, he realizes that things--and people--are not always what they appear to be.<br />This engrossing story is brimming with wit, and leaves you with the feeling that you've read something more like a testimony than a novel. What Auster has done here is to create what all novelists strive for: a story that is extremely specific but never obscure, universal in theme but never cliche.<br />If you liked The Book of Illusions, try Auster's City of Glass.	2003-03-03
US	52802298	R25JKWL5Z54OFT	0312282990	383312801	The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay	Books	5	5	7	N	N	The Amazing Abilities of Michael Cabon	First thing's first: I have never been a reader of comic books. I read Michael Chabon's Wonder Boys several months ago, and was in such awe of his talents that I swore I'd read his next novel, The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay. I was somewhat reluctant at first, for I got the impression that the book would hold very little appeal for those who hadn't spent their formative years immersed in the panels of crime-fighting superheroes. But I couldn't have been more wrong.<br />At the start of this epic tale, we are introduced to two young men. One is Sammy Clay, a daydreaming Jewish boy from Brooklyn, hoping one day to make something of himself. The other is Sammy's cousin, Joe Kavalier, an escapee of Nazi-occupied Prague. Through a series of events that can only be described as amazing, Joe has been forced to leave his family behind for the freedom of America, where he hopes to earn enough money to send for his family. When these two young men come together, Sam a gifted storyteller and Joe a skilled artist, an obvious solution presents itself to both of them. Comic books. The year is 1938 and comics are a relatively new cultural phenomenon. On the surface they offer the nation's youth a form of entertainment, but at a deeper level comic books provide Americans with a catharsis, a way to release the global tensions building during WWII. For Joe in particular, creating a story where the good guys are given free reign to fight evil week after week is a necessary outlet from his real life, where he is powerless to stop the attrocities happening across the Atlantic Ocean.<br />From there, this sprawling novel takes off, taking us through the highs and lows endured by our dynamic duo and the woman who is inextricably tied to both of their lives, Rosa Saks. Chabon has clearly done his research, and it pays off. Throughout the novel we are given an insider's view into the inner workings of New York City in the 30's and 40's, into the life of Harry Houdini and the intricacies of his legendary escapism, into WWII and Surrealist art and the World's Fair, but most impressively, into the life of the comic book, both an inspiration and a model for contemporary American fiction. And even for the uncommon reader who has no interest in romance, intrigue, power, and desperation, Chabon's miraculous prose should be reason enough to enjoy this book. I can think of no contemporary writer of fiction, from T.C. Boyle to Don Delillo, who can write sentences, whether in executing a brilliant metaphor or pulling the reader through an action sequence, like Michael Chabon.<br />Until reading this book, I had no idea what people were referring to when they spoke of the Great American Novel. I now know, for I have read it. And so should you.	2002-02-22
US	52802298	R2O7EJ5JBHD09J	0802130208	161411385	A Confederacy of Dunces	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Pure Genius	Every once in a while, a highly touted book comes along that lives up to it's reputation. All of the praise on the cover and the inside pages, the flattering forward by Walker Percy, even the Pulitzer Prize, do not go far enough in paying homage to this rambling, raucous, comic explosion of a novel.<br />The theme is summed up perfectly by the Jonathan Swift quote from which John Kennedy Toole found his title: &quot;When a true genius appears in the world, you may know him by this sign, that the dunces are all in confederacy against him.&quot;  Ignatius J. Reilly, the fleshy 30 year old anti-hero protagonist is this genius, a giant of a man who helps us to see the absurdity of our times and the foolishness of our pursuits.  In his misadventures, the highly educated but slothful Reilly propels himself through New Orleans, leaving a trail of havoc in his wake.<br />This is the only book I've ever read that had me laughing uncontrollably.  This is the kind of book that makes you miss your stop on the train.  At the same time it is very sad, as all great books are.  It is our loss that Toole committed suicide at the age of 32, before this epic tragicomedy was published and before he could add one or two more great novels to the American canon.	2002-02-05
US	52802298	R2XO9EHHGGH5ZX	0316346624	226933679	The Tipping Point: How Little Things Can Make a Big Difference	Books	3	29	31	N	N	Little Things Mean A Lot	As a fond reader of Malcolm Gladwell's articles in the New Yorker, I was anxious to read The Tipping Point, particularly in light of the buzz the book has been getting. I can see why the book is so popular. Gladwell uses extremely simple terms to define what he calls a &quot;new&quot; theory: that ideas and trends do not become popular through a gradual process; instead, they &quot;tip,&quot; pushed beyond an invisible boundary where they spread rapidly, like an epidemic. Ideas and trends catch on for certain reasons, because the idea/trend is &quot;sticky&quot; or hits the right people (connectors, mavens, salesmen) in the right environment. Gladwell draws upon several interesting case studies and experiments, littering them throughout the book with the aim of backing up his premise.<br />The first problem with the book, though, is that this premise doesn't need any support. It is not a groundbreaking idea... sociologists have been describing this phenomenon for years, it's just that none of them has dumbed the idea down well enough for the book to become a bestseller... until now. Gladwell cites a great many sociological and psychological experiments which are admittedly very interesting; but what the results of the studies suggest is often up for debate, but Gladwell tells us that while some experts believe an experiment indicates x, the real meaning of the results is y. He then supports y without ever explaining why x is not a valid interpretation. I also found it irksome that he was constantly referring to his own experiences and group of friends, rather than taking himself out of the picture (this is the difference between real investigative studies and pop-sociology, this book falling into the latter category). I also wish he would have found more interesting trends to examine than children's television shows and footware (with only a handful of fully fleshed-out case studies, two are focused on children's tv: Sesame Street and Blue's Clues; and two on shoes:Hush Puppies and Airwalks). Towards the end of the book he includes a very irritating chapter on smoking which compares cigarrettes to suicide (the sections on suicide were interesting, but the sections on smoking sounded like a lecture from a high school guidance counselor).<br />Again, the book has some very good points and can be put to practical use. But in reading it I had the feeling that Gladwell believes he has a more revolutionary theory on his hands than he actually does.	2002-01-17
US	52802298	R1MEA3OM0VMMK5	0743411951	128660469	Everything You Know	Books	2	7	11	N	N	A &quot;Small&quot; Book	Everything You Know, Zoe Heller's debut novel, tells the story of Willy Muller (based on Lukas Heller, famed screenwriter and father to Zoe Heller).  Willy is in many respects the cliched old writer: bitter, sarcastic, aldulturous, mildly alcoholic, etc.  There is nothing wrong with these cliches, as they often tend to be true and date back to Hemingway prototype;  however, there is really very little substance to this story, and the insight we are given into Willy's character is somewhat shallow.  The novel opens with the suicide of one of Willy's two estranged daughters.  As a suicide note, the daughter sends Willy her diaries.  Each chapter of the novel opens with a section of the diary, and so the curtain is slowly pulled back, revealing Willy's past.<br />In many ways Willy is an anti-hero.  What Heller missed when writing this book is that even the most notorious anti-heros (Macbeth, Mersault, Sebastian Dangerfield) can carry a book because they are fully fleshed out characters with redeeming qualities to off-set their flaws.  At the very least, the anti-hero should be interesting.  Willy doesn't strike me as either realistic or terribly interesting, and he's one of the first characters I've encountered in literature that I don't think I'd care to meet.<br />Heller isn't halfway bad at the writing game though, and her humor helps to carry this book.	2002-01-09
US	52802298	R2PL37OS0YUU8D	0140131671	168179964	East Is East (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	America as an Alligator Pit	East Is East had been billed to me as one of the finer books by one of the finer writers in America today.  I have a great weakness for stories about writers, and as this book featured a writers' colony as its center stage, I chose it over some of T.C. Boyle's better known novels and collections of short stories.<br />At it's heart, this story proposes the anti-American dream as reality.  A young man, Hiro Tanaka, jumps ship off a Japanese steamer and swims ashore on an island off the coast of Georgia.  Instead of discovering a land where people reach out to embrace him, he discovers a land where he is a wanted fugitive and the only people who reach out to help are really trying to help themselves.  As a &quot;half-breed&quot; born of a Japanese mother and an American father, Hiro had always seen America as the City of Brotherly Love where no one would care what kind of blood he had flowing through his veins.  But in very little time he learns that America can be as vicious and unwelcoming as its inhabitants, and that the American Dream is nothing short of a sham.<br />At times, Boyle is so wrapped up in setting off literary fireworks that he seems to get sidetracked from his plot; however, the fireworks can be amazing at times, so it's hard to hold this against him.  His characterizations are wonderful, and the story hardly ever loses its pace.  I wouldn't call this the greatest contemporary American novel I've come across, but it's a damn good one.	2002-01-02
US	52802298	R37IDZARKF26BR	0802130305	563004784	Ficciones	Books	5	50	51	N	N	Metaphysical Angst	After years of running into this name, &quot;Borges,&quot; I felt as though I were falling short of my expectations as a reader to ignore this man and his colossal reputation.  Ficciones seemed to be his most widely read and critically acclaimed book, and so I inevitably found myself reading it.<br />To try to capture the essence of Borges in a handful of words is like trying to capture the Lochness Monster on film: impossible, but frequently attempted.  With that understanding in mind, here's my assessment:<br />All of Borges's stories are very different, and yet they all share a common sensibility, one of understated but very deeply felt anguish.  This is not the anguish of an ordinary writer feeling sorry for himself and his fate.  This anguish is deep, metaphysical.  You get the sense that Borges views life and his fellow human beings at a distance, and yet is able to see more and understand more from this distance.  He does not attempt to explain; he simply wants to impart his sense of awe, wonder, and inevitability.<br />The subject matter varies widely: an infinite library, a scholarly review of the life's work of a fictional writer, a boy with a perfect memory.  Some of his stories are Kafka-esqe in a nightmarish sense, while others have the intellectual playfulness of an M.C. Escher drawing: what you thought was 'up' is really 'down,' and yet once you see the big picture you realize that this is the only way it can be.  The endings are as inevitable as death, and yet you rarely see them coming.<br />I'm not so sure that Borges wrote his stories with a specific point or message, although many of them seem to have one.  I believe that most of these stories are simply meant to inspire thought and contemplation of the very issues that Borges had been thinking of when he wrote them.  One could do a lot worse than to see things through the eyes of this great thinker.<br />My only complaint is that his stories are not as accessible as they could be, and his scholarly manner may be problematical for some.  But the most effective pills are often the hardest to swallow...	2001-12-12
US	52802298	RSAU2FXQEYUIK	1582431337	34638107	This Is Not a Novel	Books	2	8	17	N	N	Great Title	This is not a novel?  Damn straight it isn't.  I'm usually the first person to applaud experimental fiction, but Markson's book reads like the literary journal of a manic depressive.  Not exactly groundbreaking, just pretentious.  For those of you not already aware, the book is simply a collection of seemingly disordered facts about famous writers, historians, and philosophers.  It turns out that the sentences are not completely disordered, because they tend to follow a very subtle arc that echoes the pattern of life.  However, aside from offering the occasional interesting fact, this book has no appeal.  It is the first book I couldn't finish in six years.	2001-10-14
US	52802298	R1645FH37IW42E	0684863472	381316770	A Heartbreaking Work Of Staggering Genius : A Memoir Based on a True Story	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A Pageturning Work of Staggering Self-Importance	This book was both More and Less than I had hoped for.<BR>More: For starters, this memoir-disguised-as-a-novel is thoroughly groundbreaking. Replete with all the bells and whistles of postmodern literature (self-awareness, meta-fiction, hypertextuality, etc.), Eggers tinkers with the art of narration and with the art of plotting, both to what I thought was a very positive effect. He is not quite a normal person, and this comes across clearly in his stuttering, self-analyzing, emotionally volatile voice. In short, he is easy to like (despite his loathing of nearly everyone around him, which itself is offset by his occasional desire to hug a whole generation at once). His story is indeed heartbreaking and exhilarating, and this makes it a quick read as well.<BR>Less: Sometimes Eggers' insatiable egotism is hard to take. The only thing that made this tolerable for me was the fact that he would pause every so often to point out how big an egomaniac he can be (often through the voice of another character). Also, his style, while fascinating and new, could have been toned down in sections (the 50-page section containing a mostly made-up interview for MTV's The Real World was bold in concept but self-indulgent in execution). I must add that while I thought the preface and addendum were brilliant, Eggers is so in love with the sound of his own voice that he couldn't help but to include sections that had been edited out of the body itself. A seasoned writer could have told him that nearly anyone can write a story if given enough pages, but that it takes true skill to edit and intelligence to know what to leave out.<BR>All in all though, a fascinating read from a writer with great skill and even greater potential. I look forward to his next.	2001-09-04
US	52802298	R2PHRN8JX6D4NU	0316341029	983839104	A Drinking Life: A Memoir	Books	4	22	23	N	N	From Street Tough to Beat Reporter	Pete Hamill's name should be familiar to everyone in the New York area: in addition to rubbing shoulders and bending elbows with New York City's elite, his celebrated articles in the NY Post eventually landed him the highly coveted job of editor.  In A Drinking Life, Hamill recounts the story of his life, with a particular emphasis on his childhood in Brooklyn.  The son of a heavy-drinking, one-legged, Irish immigrant, Hamill lost his innocence early and found refuge drawing his own comic books and playing the street tough.  This dichotomy seems to follow him throughout his life: on the one hand his roots have made him a brawler, a drinker, and a swaggering toughguy; on the other, him mother's influence helped to shape a sensitive young man who couldn't stand the site of blood on the face of his street fight victims and who longed for the life of a bohemian artist in Greenwich Village.  In time, Hamill leaves his drawing and illustrating behind and begins to write.<br />Throughout all of this, there is much drinking; however, to call this a book about alcoholism would be inaccurate.  This is a memoir of a life... one to which drinking is inextricably tethered, but not one that revolves around the art of drinking.  Hamill began drinking early, and then as a reporter spent most of his time in bars, and his storytelling ability leaves no doubt that he was probably the center of attention in these bars more often than not.  In the end he kicks the habit, for fear that he has been peforming his life rather than living it. He still visits his old drinking haunts, but now sits there quietly with a Coke in hand.<br />This memoir is well told, and Hamill sees himself with a very clear eye.  His voice is unarguably that of a reporter: there is very little fanfare or elaborate language, and the story of his life is always moving.  Fortunately for the reader, it is an eventful life, filled with street fights in Brooklyn, mischief at camp, passionate sex with mysterious women, gunshots and jail in Mexico, and much more.  The memoir genre is growing tired lately, but this is one of the books that set the craze off, and it is easy to see why.	2001-07-30
US	52802298	R1UG99I53HJXY3	0312140940	65783878	Wonder Boys: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Michael Chabon: Wonder Boy	I'll admit that I was expecting to like this book before I even picked it up.  My favorite books are usually about down-and-out writers doing down-and-out writer things... turning their relationships into massive disasters, fending off the tedium of reality with drink (and drugs, in this case), launching themselves into ill-conceived exploits that only compound their problems, all the while obsessing over getting things right in the one realm that they usually have complete and total power over: their fiction.<br />But in Grady Tripp's case, he no longer controls even that.  He is a college creative writing professor who hasn't published a book in years, and is caught up in writing a novel that, like his marriage, has long been spiraling out of control.  The novel takes place over the weekend when his college holds their annual &quot;Wordfest,&quot; a yearly event when writers of various sorts assemble at this unnamed small Pittsburgh school for a writers conference.  Everything that has been happening (or not happening) to Grady over the past several years manages to come to the surface over this tumultuous weekend.<br />What is truly amazing about this plot is the skill with which Michael Chabon, the most recent winner of the Pulitzer Prize for his novel The Adventures of Kavelier and Clay, presents it.  His writing style is increadibly clean and sharp.  He manages to be profound without slowing things down, always pushing the story ahead at full speed.  His characters are vividly drawn, thoroughly realistic, and most importantly, interesting.<br />I'm usually a pretty slow reader but I fired through this book like a bullet, and look forward to reading everything else this new American storyteller has written, and will write in the future.	2001-07-12
US	52802298	R7OCK3OAFJKR3	0452272793	86586091	The Armies of the Night: History as a Novel, the Novel as History	Books	5	39	42	N	N	Mailer Does It Again	Those of you who are already familiar with the work of Norman Mailer don't need much of an introduction to the man who could perhaps be the most transcendant egoist of the century.  For those of you who haven't read Mailer, know this: he writes unlike anyone of his peers, he can turn a phrase as well as Fitzgerald, he is a profound and unusual thinker, and has a great sense of humor.<br />In this, the book that won him his first Pulitzer Prize, Mailer gives us what he likes to think of as two books.  First comes &quot;History As A Novel,&quot; in which Mailer describes his experience (in the third person) participating in the largest anti-Vietnam War rally to have occured by 1967 when this book was published.  In traditional fashion, a somewhat besotted Mailer makes rousing and unsettling remarks at a theater based event, lends his support to draft-card burners (actually, the group of protesters were to turn in their cards, rather than burn them), and walk in the historically significant march on the Pentagon.  At the Pentagon, Mailer manages to get himself arrested (a goal he had previously set for himself), and spends the weekend in jail.  He describes all of this with such wit and insight that Mailer himself becomes as much the subject matter as the march itself.<br />In the second book, &quot;The Novel As History,&quot; Mailer gives us a historical perspective on the march and describes its genesis, reason for existance, movers and shakers, and then describes the march as it might have been seen by an unbiased reporter (although Mailer admits that no unbiased reports of this event could ever be given).<br />Mailer is an enjoyable author to read, as his utterly opinionated and iconoclastic personality cannot be kept apart from his subject matter, a fact that is all the more true for Armies of the Night.  I was surprised how much self-awareness he actually posesses... writing in the third person allowed him to step outside himself and observe some of his more unusual personality traits.<br />You do not need a heavy interest in the Vietnam War to enjoy this book (although I suppose it may help)... all you need is your sympathy, intelligence, and sense of humor.	2001-06-30
US	52802298	R15O18X9LQLRR7	059035342X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Wizards and Broomsticks and Trolls (Oh My)	When I was younger you couldn't find me without a fantasy or a sci-fi novel in hand.  Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone marks my long-anticipated return to this genre.  I must say, it was not all that I had hoped for.  It is possible that as I have grown older I have lost some of my appreciation for these works of fantasy, but I do not think that is the problem.  Rather, I think that J.K. Rowling has taken a great idea but done only a fair job of carrying it through.  No doubt, the story is fun and exciting, and I credit Rowling for not patronizing her young readers all that much... she gives them proper credit and allows them to puzzle some of the secrets out for themselves.  However, I grew up on the fantasy books of C.S. Lewis, Peirs Anthony, Lloyd Alexander, and the grandfather of the fantasy genre: J.R.R. Tolkien.  I feel as though these authors did better jobs of creating unique fantasy universes... Rowling gives her readers all the old standys: flying broomsticks, magic wands, etc.  Granted, Rowling has a more difficult task in staking out new ground in the fanstasy world than her predecessors had, but I would have preferred something a little more atypical.  Of course I understand why these books are so popular: unlike a book like 'The Lion, The Witch, and The Wardrobe,' the Harry Potter books are about a young wizard who attends a wizardry school, and by including the typical school elements (the school bully, the unfair teacher, playground antics, the girl who always has to get an A on her tests, etc.) Rowling gives her young school-going readers something to identify with.  Of course the story moves quickly and is written quite cleanly, and that doesn't hurt either.	2001-05-01
US	52802298	RZERQAL3ZT6PW	0312275420	697393202	Being Dead: A Novel	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Being Alive	Joseph and Celice are dead, as we learn at the start of Jim Crace's eloquent and rousing novel, Being Dead.  Ordinarily a book that opens with a pair of corpses would take the form of a whodunit, slowly unraveling the mystery surrounding the deaths (or more likely, murders).  Crace, however, is not your ordinary novelist.  As he tells in the first couple of chapters, people used to celebrate the lives of the dead rather than mourn their deaths.  Loved ones would reconstruct the pasts until it seemed as though the dead had their whole lives ahead of them.<br />Following this method, Crace moves back and forth through time, telling us alternately about Joseph and Celice's early history together as well as of their deaths.  The reconstruction of their first encounter and blossoming relationship is heartwarming and hauntingly real, a detached portrait of an imperfect love.  The alternate chapters describing the twilight of these two lives is very scientific and at times unsettling.  For the most part these chapters move backwards in time, first describing the decaying bodies (in intimate detail) and eventually moving backwards through Joseph and Celice's last day, slowly bringing us into their beds before they awake for the last time.<br />This book is no meandering accident; Crace appears to have a purpose.  He is clearly not one to believe in religion or an afterlife, and so presents life as it is: organic, brief, valuable.  This may be a difficult pill to swallow for some, but Crace's beautiful language is like a cool drink of water to wash it all down.  It is life that counts, he tells us.  So do what you can with it: live, love, and definitely read this book.	2001-04-25
US	52802298	R2QB05NBB5R4WN	0679749055	896922570	The Facts: A Novelist's Autobiography	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Not Just The Facts	Leave it to Phillip Roth to take a traditional autobiography and turn it on its ear.  The book begins with a brief letter from Roth to his fictional character Zuckerman, explaining that he (Roth) has written a brief autobiography and wanted to get Zuckerman's input.  Then comes the autobiography, a concise version of Roth's history focusing primarily upon his childhood, his college years, and his marriage to a woman who he later describes as his &quot;nemesis.&quot;  Finally the book ends with Zuckerman's comments on Roth's text.  Just the thought of it is enough to make you laugh, but there is value in this approach.  Roth clearly feels uneasy discussing himself, and so the fictional character allows him to break down his own personality without appearing overly self-indulgent.  This final Zuckerman section is very insightful and alleviated my doubts that perhaps Phillip Roth does not understand himself as well as he would like to think.<br />'The Facts' is a quick read and goes a long way in illustrating how a nice Jewish boy from a good family in the suburbs of New Jersey could find enough angst in his life to eventually line his desk with a Pulitzer Prize, two PEN/Faulkner Awards, and a National Book Award.  I would recommend it to anyone who has enjoyed anything by this master of the literary realm.  (If you haven't yet read any of his novels, try Portnoy's Complaint, American Pastoral, or Goodbye Columbus... but you really can't go wrong, everything he's written is terrific.)	2001-04-19
US	52802298	R37UZ07IBCXJW5	067972463X	431986566	The Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas	Books	1	23	37	N	N	Funny and Unique or Pretentious Drivel?	There are so many things to hate about this book that I'm not quite sure where to start.  This book is often praised for its innovation, but Stein is not the first to write in a conversational tone (semi-stream-of-consciousness).  What made this book so intollerable to me was its lack of substance... everything here is gossip.  I do know many of the artists and writers that are discussed, but all we hear about is who liked whom, and what they liked to have for dinner.  What is most annoying about this book however, are the vain complements that Ms. Stein's makes about herself through the mouthpiece of her lover, Alice B. Toklas.  She refers to herself as a genius over and over again, and tells us that she is the most important literary figure in the 20th century.  Today most of this is read as a joke that Stein was in on, but many of her contemporaries later said that she was in fact a self-important braggart, and that she did believe she was superior to the other writers (and painters, poets, sculpters, etc.) of her time.  Many people who have written biographies of the ex-patriot modernists have said that one of the reasons Stein wrote this book was to get revenge on all of the people who had made light of her work over the years.  She clearly does exactly that, but pretends that her reason for putting these people down is because they were flawed individuals.  Fortunately for Gertrude Stein's posterity, the primary reason that this book continues to flourish is so everyone could read not about Stein and Toklas, but about Hemingway, Eliot, Picasso, Matisse, Whitehead... the true geniuses of the time.	2001-03-31
US	52802298	R2HZ84REX53C0V	0060953713	351520335	Blue Angel: A Novel	Books	5	21	23	N	N	A Tour-de-Force Satire	This page-turner packs quite a punch.  It is the story of a college creative-writing professor struggling with his attraction toward one of his students.  He is happily married, but can't seem to shake his desire for this young, jittery, tattooed and punkish girl with enough facial piercings to make her head look like a disco ball.  Meanwhile, he is trying to cope with a disenfranchised daughter, a class full of would-be writers, and a college environment that is growing increasingly wary of sexual misconduct and gender warfare.<br />In Blue Angel, Francine Prose skewers campus politics and this country's return to the sexual mores of the Victorian Era.  Her writing is authentic, unaffected, and sharp, and she manages to do what so many other writers cannot... tell a compulsively readable story that has depth, meaning, and insight.  For a deeper understanding of the story, look for Prose's many telling references to other authors and novels (Chekhov, Lolita, Jane Eyre)... none of these references are without implication.<br />I have noticed that a number of people who have written about this book here did not like the book, particularly the ending.  It is important to remember, however, that the best of satires do not leave readers feeling satisfied.  They leave us feeling frustrated and dissatisfied, not only for the characters, but for the reality that these characters represent.  This book is no exception.  It is easy to see why nearly every newspaper and magazine in this country has taken its turn praising Blue Angel to the high heavens, and why this book was a National Book Award Finalist.  I am very much looking forward to reading more of Francine Prose's work.	2001-03-02
US	52802298	R29P1XMQEY99H8	0679774386	538008197	Doctor Zhivago	Books	4	17	22	N	N	The Definitive Russian Epic of the Twentieth Century	Without intending to stereotype an entire nation, I don't think I'd be wrong to say that the Russian people seem to have a profound gift for literature.  Many of the world's great writers were Russian: Tolstoy, Chekhov, Dostoevsky, Solzhenitsyn, Pushkin, Gogol, and countless others.  These masters have created timeless works addressing universal issues.  In Doctor Zhivago, Pasternak has created the definitive Russian epic of the 20th Century, and in doing so joins this impressive list of literary lions.<br />Without going into too much detail, the story traces the lives of Yuri Zhivago and Lara Guishar during the time of the Russian Revolution.  The paths of these two exceptionally believable and distinctive characters cross from time to time, and their attraction towards one another is palpable.  While this book is many things, it is also a love story, and so it comes as no surprise when the two stories become one.<br />The various qualities that make this novel so impressive are too many to list, but I will list some of the more notable points: the story helps to shed light on one of the most momentous political and social events in history (the ousting of the Tzar by the Bolsheviks through a series of revolutions), and goes a long way in explaining the effects of this political upheaval on the Russian people; while the story is a sprawling epic in the tradition of Charles Dickens, the characters are much more well-rounded and believable than those in most of Dickens's novels; Pasternak graces this book with some of the most beautiful passages in the history of literature (many of which describe the Russian landscape).  This novel is at times mysterious, harrowing, uplifting, eye-opening, and introspective, and it goes farther in emotionally overwhelming the reader than most great works of literature.<br />The difficulties I had with Doctor Zhivago were small, but difficulties nonetheless.  I found it irksome that Pasternak took the time to introduce us to so manyrelatively insignificant characters, giving us not only their names and descriptions, but their histories and ancestry.  I was also bothered by the abundance of coincidences in the story.  Everytime Zhivago ran into someone (even if he was thousands of miles into Siberia), it was a character he (and we) had previously encountered.  One or two such incidents would be mildly ironic... forty or fifty start to stretch the limits of plausibility.<br />Despite these minor flaws, this book is breathtaking.  It is the story of a butterfly-like individual who attempts to survive a thunderous storm of a revolution.  You do not need any knowledge of Russian history to appreciate this epic story.  All you need is a little imagination, and a lot of time (the book is about 550 pages).	2001-02-20
US	52802298	R29CUGIBHZ08OS	0060911263	215157850	ON BECOMING A NOVELIST	Books	4	147	150	N	N	Not The Typical Book On Writing	Before discovering a dusty old hardcover copy of John Gardner's 'On Becoming A Novelist' in an infamous New York City bookstore (Gotham Book Mart), I was under the impression that every book related to the art of writing fit into one of three catagories.  Either it focused on technique (Robert McKee's 'Story'), it offered encouragement (Anne Lamott's 'Bird By Bird'), or it took memoir form (Annie Dillard's 'The Writing Life').  I was wrong.<br />This book is a portrait of the writer as a young man (or woman).  After years of teaching creative writing courses and wallowing around the publishing industry, Gardner acquired an opinion or two (major understatement).  He correctly believed that writing novels is not a profession or a pasttime for the timid, and so he outlines the prototypical writer's 'character'.  The purpose, of course, is to get the young writer to ask himself if he is really cut out for this.  In the course of telling you what traits a talented writer must have (verbal accuity, a discerning eye, faith, etc.), Gardner offers up some brilliant insights into the craft.  His discussion ranges from writer's block to writers' conferences, and while you may not always agree with him, his views are always thought provoking and perceptive.<br />In the end, this book may be mildly discouraging for the would-be writer who is currently on the fence.  Gardner does not sugar coat his opinions, but I am glad for that.  He has no qualms in informing his readers that worthwhile writing takes a great deal of talent, and not everyone has that talent.  As he says, the worst that can happen after reading this book is that you will realize you don't have the right stuff, and you will move on to something else.<br />In reading this book, you get the impression that he was a brilliant writing teacher, as is evidenced by perhaps his greatest student, Raymond Carver.  Carver wrote the brilliant introduction to this book, which familiarizes the reader with Gardner's personalityand makes it easier to put the rest of the book in perspective.  I, for one, would have loved to have Gardner as a teacher.  As that is no longer possible (he died in a motorcycle accident years ago), this book is no small consolation.	2000-12-19
US	52802298	R6ZU6CWWYKIZZ	0684853523	44310359	On Writing:  A Memoir of the Craft	Books	4	16	17	N	N	The Book Only Stepehn King Could Write	Let me begin by saying that a book about writing can be dangerous.  No two authors take the same approach, work at the same speed, cover the same material, or write with the same ends in mind.  In short, there is no correct way to write.  Having said that (a phrase which King professes to hate), there is a great deal of interesting material in this book.<br />In the first section of the book King gives us his &quot;Curriculum Vitae,&quot; a brief autobiography focussing on the events in his life which contributed to his career choice (he might argue that it was no choice at all).  In this section he also discusses his life as a writer.  This portion of the book is interesting and reads quickly.  It also goes a long way in illuminating King's thematic preferences.<br />In the second section King takes the reader's hand and walks him or her through a &quot;how to&quot; course.  Among other topics, King discusses vocabulary, grammer, dialogue, second drafts, and finding an agent. In this section, King lets his opinions fly.  Oftentimes I agree with him.  Sometimes I do not.  For example, he tells the reader not to use adverbs if at all possible.  That I agree with (and if you need to be convinced yourself, try reading the first 10 pages of Manhattan Transfer by John Dos Passos sometime).  He also says some terrific things about dialogue attribution.  On the other hand, he recommends a tremendous amount of output that few who are not named Stephen King could match.  He is also dead against outlining or plotting a novel.  For some writers that may be good advice, but others may need to outline, even if their story begins to diverge from the outline on page 20 (as an interesting side note, William Styron once told me that after extensively plotting &quot;Sophie's Choice&quot; and covering his walls with outlines and character sketches, he found the story taking on a life of it's own in the very first chapter... he then abandoned the preordained plot).  Still, King makes it very clear that his advice is just that.  Advice.  It worked for him, and maybe it will work for you too.  No matter how you write though, King does offer some very valuable advice (and it's difficult to argue with his success).<br />In the third and final section, King relates the story of his recent near-fatal car accident.  I found this section both harrowing and uplifting.  This portion of the book originally appeared in the New Yorker, and at the time I had passed the article around to everyone I know.  As usual, King describes this event as only he could (you really do feel as though you were on the side of the road watching it all happen), and in doing so he unintentionally proves the value of the advice he offers earlier.  If you take writing seriously, you could do worse than to read this book.  And even if you do not write but are just a typical Stephen King fanatic, you would enjoy this book for the insight it gives into his character and into his novels.	2000-12-07
US	52802298	R1USJGX9IH962K	0156007754	787923440	Blindness (Harvest Book)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A Book With Grand Aspirations	The first thing I should mention about this book is that I am holding it up to a higher standard than that which I would hold a typical New York Times Bestseller up to.  The reason for this double standard is that Blindness seems to avoid every trap that ordinarily dates your typical novel and thereby excludes that novel from the list of books that your great-grandchildren will be reading in college.  In this book, no locations are given.  There are no historical references, and there are no pop-culture references.  In fact, there are no names in this novel.  Saramago wants this story to take place everywhere and nowhere, and in no particular time period.<br />The plot centers around a small band of people who are caught in the midst of a Kafkaesque epidemic.  There is a seemingly unexplainable blindness being passed across an unnamed nation.  No one knows how this 'disease' is transmitted, and no one knows if it is curable.  As you might guess, panic ensues.  We follow the characters through their travails, and witness the horrors that they encounter.<br />I don't want to say too much for fear of spoiling the book, but it is fair to say that I believe this story about blind people is really about just that... people.  The book may be titled &quot;Blindness,&quot; but this epidemic is just the means by which Saramago intends to illuminate the human condition.<br />My one real hang-up with this book is Saramago's penchant for authorly expositions.  The third-person narrator often digresses to make trite and obvious statements about love, life, death, and just about everything else.  These statements are in no way enlightening (as are the asides by authors like Fitzgerald or Conrad), and for the most part serve to remind you that the events unfolding before you are make-believe.  You are only reading a book, as you are repeatedly reminded.  This style may work well for the types of stories told by the postmodernists, but for this type of story, a straightforward narrative would have worked better.  I had a hard time empathizing with these nameless characters because I was never fully absorbed by the story.  That may also be due to the numerous two-dementional side characters who primarily serve the function of fulfulling a &quot;type&quot; (ie--several bad people are completely evil without a shred of goodness in them, etc.).  Nonetheless, this is a fine novel and does offer a great deal to think about.<br />On the side, let me disagree with the many reviewers here who say that Saramago's unusual disregard for the traditional rules of grammer is distracting.  It is unfortunate that so many authors get caught up in the traditions of literature, and end up worrying whether they should place the comma inside or outside the quotation marks.  Saramago writes dialogue the way he wants (it is not only understandable, but I believe that it flows quite well), he writes paragraphs the way he wants, and he writes this novel the way he wants.  For that, I applaud him.	2000-11-29
US	52802298	R21DQ4UTQNHYAR	0060919884	427033152	The Writing Life	Books	4	16	18	N	N	A Great Little Book...	I have never read anything by Annie Dillard before, but after finishing 'The Writing Life' I am eager for more.  I cannot imagine that many non-writers would be interested in this type of book, but much of what Dillard has to say can easily be applied to other creative outlets as well as to living an inspired life in general.  So do not be deterred, non-writers.<br />At the outset of the book, Dillard offers up her insights into the writing craft.  This takes the form of a series of imaginative page-long pieces, many of which materialize into unique, gently-stated, and beautifully written advice.  Dillard then goes on to relate a succession of experiences that somehow tie in to the life of a writer.  She does an excellent job of combing through her life experiences and siphoning out the right material.<br />In this short but impressive little book, Dillard charms us with her wit, disarms us with her modesty, astonishes us with her resourcefulness, woos us with her insight, and comforts the writer in each of us with her encouragement.  Most of Dillard's encouragement arrives through her expression of the difficulty she has encountered while writing, and it is nice to know that strong and meaningful prose does not come naturally to all great writers... and Dillard is most certainly that... a great writer.	2000-11-08
US	52802298	R2L4CXPVJUJXI7	0226500578	200661390	A River Runs Through It, and Other Stories	Books	5	16	18	N	N	A Story About Life And Understanding, Not About Fly Fishing	Do not ignore this book simply because you may not have an interest in fishing.  This 104 page story does consecrate a considerable number of pages to starkly poetic descriptions of fly fishing (lovely, haunting descriptions of men standing in Montana's Big Blackfoot River, attempting to achieve something great in the half-light of a rocky canyon), but this story is not about fishing.  It is about two brothers who vaguely understand that--much like a river--life takes its own twists and turns and cannot be stopped by man.  Life cannot always be understood in an intellectual sense, but sometimes it can be appreciated in a visceral one, and perhaps we can pull moments of brillance from it, just as a fisherman might pull a beautiful trout from a river.  Maclean gives us his life and his heart in this story, and it is impossible not to be touched by his emotions.  Everytime I read this book I learn something new, and as I plan on reading this book many more times to come, I suppose I still have a lot of learning to do.	2000-10-18
US	52802298	RB59INAWMNJDD	0816038546	250281286	The Complete Motorcycle Book: A Consumer's Guide	Books	3	16	16	N	N	a decent introduction to the world of motorcycles	For someone who brings nothing more than enthusiasm to the art of  motorcycle riding (in other words, you don't know the first thing about  motorcycle parts and you have no idea what &quot;countersteering&quot;  means), this book is a fairly good introduction.  The author takes you  through all aspects of motorcycle ownership, from deciding whether riding  is right for you to the mechanics behind the combustible engine to making  high speed turns.  The information is reasonably detailed and well written,  and all topics are covered.<br />My only complaints are:  1) many introductory  books to motorcycles, such as The Idiot's Guide, give a more detailed  breakdown of all bikes currently on the market... this book only covers a  handful of bikes available (although it does have a section on used bikes),   2) there could have been more illustrations to accompany the explanations  of motorcycle parts and functionality, and 3) certain sections use terms  that the author never takes the time to define (at one point he makes  numerous references to the &quot;gasket&quot; without telling the  uninitiated where a gasket is, what it looks like, what it's function is,  etc.).<br />But in the long run, my complaints are minor.  This book is  relatively comprehensive, and covers some issues that other books don't  (such as the section on female riders).  The author is well informed,  clearly cares a great deal about the subject matter, and stresses safety.   Anyone who is considering buying their first motorcycle would do well to  buy this book (and maybe one or two others as well).	2000-09-14
US	52802298	R3H9Y7YPKPWUDN	0060930535	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Story Of Uncommon Depth	I should start by saying that I was by no means excited to read this  novel.  I organized a book club with a few friends some time ago, and one  of our members chose this book (much to my initial disappointment).<br />My  impression after 100 pages or so was that Barbara Kingsolver is a brilliant  writer, but that the story was a bit tedious.  I couldn't have been more  wrong.  Kingsolver sets the scene with the first 150 pages and then takes  off, launching a spellbinding tale about an overzealous and arrogant  missionary who drags his wife and four daughters into the heart of darkness  in the Belgian Congo (circa 1959).  As though you didn't know that bad  things happen when someone attempts to push his culture onto others who see  the world in their own way, we are told that a tragedy will unfold in the  very first chapter.<br />The story is told from the perspective of the  missionary's wife and four daughters, and each character comes alive on  paper.  Each speaks in a unique voice, sees the world in a unique way, and  has a different way of dealing with the difficult situation that they  slowly find themselves in.  As a man, I was at first dismayed that  Kingsolver chose to leave out the male perspective by only presenting us  with the female family-members' points of view;  however, this turns out to  have been the wiser decision.  This is by no means a male bashing book  (although a few other reviewers here seem to think so), and I find it hard  to believe that anyone who has actually finished this book could draw that  conclusion.<br />A great college course could be taught on this one book.   There are so many things to say about the issues it unearths, the insight  into human behavior it reveals, and the talent it belies, that I will say  only one thing: &quot;read this book.&quot;	2000-08-25
US	52802298	R2QAWD0TKP2CIW	0385318049	419693603	A Trip to the Stars	Books	3	14	17	N	N	Not a Full-Course Meal, But a Great Dessert	Some books are like an extravagant eight-course meal.  You read the book slowly, savoring each course, and when you've finally finished you sit back in your chair and stare at the ceiling.  You've just eaten one of the  greatest meals of all time, and it just might have been grand enough to  last you for years.  Every single meal you ever eat will be compared to  this one.  It has become a touchstone.  For me, books like this are Tropic  of Cancer, The Sun Also Rises, Catcher in the Rye, Tender is the Night,  Beloved, Of Mice and Men, Crime and Punishment, etc.  A Trip to the Stars  is more like a giant wedding cake.  It's elaborate, carefully structured,  multi-tiered, and absolutely beautiful.  It won't exactly nourish you, but  it will fill you up for the time being.  And I've eaten a lot of cakes that  are worse than this one.<br />As you can read on the book's jacket, the novel  opens as a young boy, Loren, is kidnapped at a planetarium.  He had been in  the care of his college-age Aunt, Alma;  however, he soon finds himself  presented with an opportunity to live a new and exciting life.  A life of  adventure, wealth, lust, intellectual persuits, and more specifically: lost  continents, meteors, vampires, botany, dogs not of this world, and so  forth.  The book alternates between Loren's narrative and Alma's.  The day  that Alma loses Loren becomes her defining moment in life.  She does not  know what became of him, and can never forgive herself for losing him.  She  drops out of school and embarks on a tremendous journey of her own.  On the  way to wherever she may be headed, she encounters venomous spiders,  eight-fingered men, the Vietnam War, Drugs, Hawaii, and the love of her  life.  Alma's story and Loren's begin to intertwine as the novel moves  along, and uncovering the connections is where I found most of my  enjoyment.<br />This novel is too sprawling to encapsulate in a brief review,  so know that any attempt on my part to sum up the story or give you a feel  for it will be partially-effective at best.  I did enjoy the story, but  while I suppose I could take a fair amount of mysticism in a novel, this  book might have too much (I started to raise an eyebrow when vampires were  introduced a few hundred pages into the book, only to be dropped soon  after).  The book is also laden with characters who are prone to sitting  around over dinner while discussing (at great length) the memory techniques  of a Greek scholar or the mating habits of a rare arachnid.  There also  seems to be a great deal of symbolism for it's own sake (I managed to find  the derivatives of most character names, and there is a great deal hidden  below the surface here, but in the end, those things don't really add much  to the story).  If I had any other complaint, it would be that both  narrators seem to have the same exact same speaking voice, but I suppose  that might only be a minor distraction.  Most of what I've said here might  come across as major complaints, but the lyrical power of the novel goes a  long way.<br />Overall, this was an enjoyable novel.  I cared for the  characters, and now that I am through, I find that I miss some of them.   There are images that will probably stay with me for months.  In a year, I  may not remember anything about A Trip To The Stars, but sometimes dessert  is just dessert.	2000-06-19
US	52802298	R33LONF3WCWM9K	0786705922	708860351	Papa Hemingway	Books	5	75	77	N	N	Intimate Biography of Hemingway	Anything I say here will simply detract from this wonderful book, so I will keep it short.  I've read a number of Hemingway biographies, but this is unquestionably the best.  Hotchner only new Ernest for approximately the  last 14 years of his life, so if you're looking for a comprehensive  biography, try elsewhere (I wouldn't feel comfortable recommending any of  the other Hemingway bios I've read).  What Hotchner can give us is a  portrait of Papa (Hemingway) from the perspective of a very close and dear  friend (Hotchner hunted and travelled with Papa, helped edit and publish  his books and essays, and even named A Moveable Feast).  And Hotchner is no  fool.  He knows that Hemingway had a propensity towards exaggeration, and  seems to have a pretty good B.S. detector.<br />If you want all the facts, and  want to know everything Hemingway ever did, read one of the opuses written  by a college professor who got all of his or her information third-hand.   If you want to know what Hemingway the man was like, read this  book.<br />After finishing, I think it is fair to say that Hemingway's most  tragic character turned out to be himself.  Read this book.	2000-06-19
US	52802298	R3ODFH1Q08KK6P	0671040731	539917821	Note Found in a Bottle (Wsp Readers Club)	Books	2	12	14	N	N	So Light That It Floats Away	At one point in her recent memoir 'Note Found In A Bottle', Susan Cheever tells us that looking back on her life she almost feels as though it had happened to someone else.  I find that very easy to believe, because this  comes off as an amatuerish biography by a not-so-close aquaintance.   Reading this book, I felt as though Cheever were fast-forwarding through a  poorly made movie of her life.  She has clearly been through a lot and has  experienced enough to write something formidable, but instead she rushes  through her life stopping only to drop the occasional name.  What is truly  amazing to me is the lack of introspection on Cheever's part.  Once in a  while she attempts to analyze her past, but the attempts are shallow.   Simply put, she was unable to get close enough to her own life to allow me  to empathize.<br />It is very difficult to review a memoir, because in the end  you are not only reviewing an individual's work, you are reviewing the  individual.  That being said, I don't think I would have enjoyed having  Susan Cheever as a friend.  While she seems to have made some vague  connection between her past problems and her drinking, she often writes as  though she were patting herself on the back for her cool friends and hip  lifestyle.  Now she pats herself on the back for outgrowing her desire for  a drink.  If only she had spent more time thinking and less time revelling  in the hype she has created for herself, this could have been a book worth  reading.	2000-06-01
US	52802298	R2U2M6D70US02F	0141180641	828207438	Hunger (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A Groundbreaking Novel	While considerably overlooked today, at one point in time Knut Hamsun was among the most widely read and highly respected authors in the world.  Winning the Nobel Prize for literature in 1920, Hamsun is a mystical Fyodor  Dostoevsky, telling stories that shock us with their insight into the human  condition.<br />Hunger seems a simple book, but is really anything but.  The  tempo of the book moves quite rapidly, but there is an amazing amount of  insight buried within the dialogue of the narrator.  This is one of the  first books ever written in the first person, so Hamsun did not feel  restricted by any preexisting expectations on the part of the public.  The  narrative is a great deal like the internal monologue we all have:  not  always linear, sometimes contradictory, etc.  To me, reading this book was  as close as I've come to reading the mind of a real man (not to mention an  endlessly intriguing and thought-provoking man).<br />This book will not be  liked by everyone.  Many people could find the absence of traditional plot  vexing.  Others may cultivate an intense disliking for the narrator (as is  the case with a few of my friends who have read the book).  But if you read  for the insight that books provide, don't let this one pass you by.	2000-05-25
US	52802298	R3VT1LHZZTE6S	0252062825	785972832	Studs Lonigan (Prairie State Books)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	One Of A Kind Masterpiece	Many a person may be intimidated by the length of this great work of literature, and never take the time to read it.  Do not be one of those unfortunate souls.  This book is truly not to be missed.<br />While pieces of  the book focus on depression era politics and problems (for a more detailed  analysis of the plot, see Mike O Farrell's review below), the themes that  run throughout this novel have been with us since the very beginning of  time.  At its heart, this story is about a young man who has always  imagined greatness for himself.  He lives deep inside the recesses of his  own mind (as we all do) and accordingly finds it hard to believe that he is  not unique, somehow different from all of his friends, family, and  acquaintances.  James T. Farrell's tragedy unfolds as Studs slowly comes to  realize that he is just another guy, making his own way through this life  and trying to make just a little bit of sense out of it all.<br />If you have  come to literature to find some answers, this is probably not your book.   Like all great novelists, Farrell is simply showing you the way he sees  things, and bringing up enough raw material from the detritus of life to  make you stop, and think, and wonder.	2000-04-04
US	52802298	RAWU4E1S94VBF	0805060170	814932512	The Naked and the Dead: 50th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Mailer is a natural	Writing must come naturally to Norman Mailer.  While this is his very first book, it suffers from none of the usual rookie mistakes and stands up to the very best works in Mailer's oeuvre.  I dare say that very few 20th  century novelists would not trade in the sum total of their work to have  written this one masterpiece.<br />&quot;The Naked and the Dead&quot; delves  deep into the heart of war as it exists in modern times, sparing us the  sentimentalism and glorification that plagues most books of the war genre.   I would be belittling this book's significance by even assigning it to a  specific genre.  True, this is a story of war, of the implications of war,  the causes of war, and the impact that war has on various types of  individuals, from the generals down to a platoon of privates.  But first  and foremost this is a story about human nature, and how human beings react  when pushed to the very edge of their physical and emotional  endurance.<br />While I could go on indefinately listing this book's many  favorable attributes, I will spare you my opinions and let you decide for  yourself.  But do read this book.  Do not be put-off by its length, for  anything shorter would have done a great injustice to the subject  matter.<br />Norman Mailer, may you live to be 1,000 years old.	1999-10-18
US	52802298	R24WI0DMFXM34A	0871131994	142387457	The Ginger Man	Books	5	84	91	N	N	A True Creation	CAUTION:  This book is not for everyone (ie--if you expect your reading to provide a strong moral and ethical paradigm, might as well skip this book).  If, however, you can enjoy a book about a boozing expatriot in Ireland who  disregards all responsibilities (including his family) and owes money to  everyone he has come into contact with, then read on.  This is not to say  that Donleavy necessarily endorses a life of drinking and whoring, he is  merely writing about it (more drinking than whoring).  Fans of literature,  this book cannot be ignored.  Donleavy breaks every rule in the book with  his poetic sensibilites.  He writes with a flourish and a sense of imagery  that is both uncommon and incredible.  I cannot say that I have much regard  for the modern library or their lists, but I can see why they included this  book in their &quot;Top 100 Books of the 20th Century in the English  Language.&quot;  This is a book I will not easily forget.	1999-09-23
US	52802298	R2O0S60YTKA34Q	0786884142	713265752	A Monk Swimming A Memoir	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A Master Yarn From A Master McCourt Raconteur	If you count yourself amongst the god-fearing bible-toting scripture-quoting anti-indulgence affiliates of the almighty moral majority, this probably ain't your book, baby.  THIS IS NOT ANGELA'S ASHES  (which is a very different creature from the gods of literature).  But holy  schlitz, this man has lead a life!  There are oh so few of us who will walk  away from this world having seen as much of it as Mr. McCourt has.  And  those of us who will are blessed if we can write about it like Malachy has  done.  Perhaps his stories are hyperboles, perhaps they aren't, but who  cares?  He is an unapologetic Irishman bearing poetry and a past, and he  couldn't have done a better job of serving it up to the rest of us.  If you  like this book, check out Donleavy, Farrell, and Miller.  Malachy, if you  are out there, I know that you are  a changed man from the one you once  were, but thank you.  Thanks for the wondrous tales, the beautiful  language, and the life.	1999-08-27
US	52802298	R1ZT3I1QABDOEW	068484267X	698161422	Angela's Ashes: A Memoir	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A book for everyone	If you can appreciate one of the most brilliantly written stories of the 20th century, you will like this book.  If you have ever laughed, ever cried, you will like this book.	1999-08-03
US	52802298	R2847RL3ZMKMW6	1573226521	117734468	The Beach	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Quasi-Classic for Gen-Xers	True, this book is slightly overrated.  Yes, the parallels to Lord of the Flies, Heart of Darkness, Animal Farm, On the Road, and Treasure Island are somewhat overdone.  However, this may be the best novel to come out of  Generation X thus far.  It is rare to find a true page-turner that does not  fall into the monstrous pile of best-selling trash that crowds the shelves  of your local bookstore.  This is a story about human interaction,  disillusionment, and finally, the nature of mankind.  At the same time it  is a subtle commentary on modern society and how we are influenced by our  surroundings (some may squawk at the use of pop-culture references, but  these references are in the book for a reason).  In the end, what separates  this debut novel from many of the classics is style.  Garland may not yet  be the master of prose that Golding and Conrad were, but give him time.   Definately a recommended read.	1999-07-15
