US	52805679	R3EOB046ZE9OW4	0373513151	957401821	Daughter of Destiny: Sisters of the Ark (Bombshell, 1)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	romance??	As a regular reader of Harlequin Intrigue, I was excited by the idea of a new series that focused on strong female characters as the heros of the stories.  At least, that's what I thought the Bombshell series was supposed to be, a sort-of Grrrl Power romantic action/adventure line.   <br /> <br />Sadly, I have been quite disappointed. After having read this, the first offering in the line, and the 9th, Maureen Tan's A Perfect Cover, I decided that I was mistaken about the focus of the Bombshell line.  Yes, the stories did focus on a strong female character.  These main characters are more focused and dramatic than those in some other Harlequin/Silhouette categories.  There is a male character to be the romantic interest and there is action and adventure.   <br /> <br />But there's very little romance.  (Assuming you've read the very apt descriptions of the plot by other reviewers here)  The interaction between Kai and Jake seems to sometimes belong on a soap opera and sometimes in a young adult novel.  In their particular story, it seems that everything important has been their from the past, and we're just waiting (page after page) for Kai to get over herself and love Jake, while he just stands by and waits for it.  And, I suppose this kind of sensitive give the lady her time and space approach is fine in life, but it doesn't make for very good romantic fiction. <br /> <br />Rather than developing a romance, the author has set one up in the characters' past and spends the action of the book on building a main character and on accomplishing the given task, rather than in allotting a portion of the word count to developing a romance.  Even at the end of the book, she never reaches where most romance readers expect her to be with respect to the protagonists' relationship to achieve a proper sense of satisfaction with the conclusion.  <br /> <br />As an action novel, I would say that this is fairly good, well-paced with vivid descriptions of places, events, and cultural particulars.  As a romance, I would consider the Bombshell line a bomb.  <br />	2005-07-05
US	52805679	R26TKL5GLJCA6G	0373220065	22343023	Touch a Wild Heart	Books	3	0	0	N	Y	Hard to find	Touch A Wild Heart by Vella Munn is about a mixed race daughter of a migrant worker and an orchard owner, and a white man who is determined to have her help in bringing down an unscrupulous coyote, a coyote being a person who smuggles illegal aliens.   <br /> <br />At first, it almost seems that the character of Chela is overdone.  She seems only to associate with migrant workers and has a marked distrust of anyone else.  She is a teacher working with English as a second language students, and during the summer when the story takes place, she makes the rounds of migrant villages and orchards teaching the migrant children and adults alike.  In the evenings she helps to coach the only soccer team in the local league in which the boys speak Spanish.  She lives alone in a small home which she owns and there are very few people whom she allows to know where she lives. <br /> <br />When Madagan comes into her life, she is immediately suspicious of him.  He practically commandeers her assistance, even though he boldly states that there are things he can't tell her about himself or his goal, including whom he is working for.  Chela agrees to help him because she knows what a dangerous man Kohl is and knows he has to be stopped.   <br /> <br />Madagan's plan is to have Chela contact Kohl and pay him to arrange to bring her supposed lover to her from Mexico City.  Madagan has a friend in Mexico who is willing to take on the dangerous job of becoming Kohl's human cargo, and Madagan is putting up the money with which Chela will pay the smuggler.   <br /> <br />The author begins to allude to the fact that Kohl knows Chela's secret and could expose her to everyone.  A fact which seems to terrify her.   <br /> <br />What kept me from giving this story 4 stars was just that I didn't think Chela's and Madagan's secrets were worthy of all the drama.  When they were finally revealed, her character was more understandable, yet I mostly just thought she was a goose and should get over herself.   <br /> <br />But the book is quite readable, I think I stayed up rather late to finish it. <br />	2005-06-06
US	52805679	RGIXEHHM4DG70	037322012X	984693423	Night Shadows	Books	3	0	0	N	N	No place for a woman	This was an interesting story.  It involved a branch of government known as the Customs Patrol.  (Keeping in mind that this is the mid-eighties...) Beth Page is one of the few women to be trying to break into the field of Customs Patrol Officer. The CP seems to be mostly involved in combating international smuggling into the US.  One would assume that this would be all about drugs, but it seems to also include such things as illegal aliens and even nuclear weapons. Beth's reasons are not particularly feminist, nor even do they seem to have much to do with the work of the Customs Patrol itself.  Her late fianc and childhood sweetheart, Judd, was a Customs Patrol officer who was killed in the line of duty.    Unfortunately, her determination to follow through with his work (even though as a teacher she has worthwhile work of her own) is one of the things about the story that just didn't ring true for me.  That aside, sharing the spot of top of the class with her is Brand Page, no relation, but having two B. Pages in the class does result in some confusion in the story.  Although Brand makes no secret of his attraction to Beth, he is also quite open in his assertion that Customs Patrol is no place for a woman.  After they are assigned as partners near his home in Arizona on the Mexican border, we find out that Brand was actually a Customs Patrol officer previously who left for a ranching life, was at the academy merely as a refresher before returning to the field.  The reason for this turnabout was the murder of a neighbor of his and fellow rancher.   <br /> <br />Brand tries throughout the story to try to convince Beth to give up the Patrol, all the while doing things to bring her closer to him like dating her and even going home with her to meet her parents.  Obviously a conflicted man.   <br /> <br />Anyway, Beth finally proves her worth as a CP officer, but just when Brand seems ready to accept her as and officer and as a woman, does she really want him to anymore? <br />	2005-06-06
US	52805679	R2FYKEDMKISH6G	0373220111	941724908	Bitter Fruit	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Just not enough	The story has a good beginning, Lenore Hurley trying to save wildlife from an oil spill which happens to have taken place in the body of water she had been researching for her newly awarded PhD.  However, that is the last time we see Lenore in that kind of situation.  She then accepts a position as a lab assistant to work on organisms to clean up oil spills naturally.  From then on, her time seems to be mostly filled with cleaning test tubes, snooping through her boss's papers, and carrying on with the owner of the laboratory complex, Simon Winter.  There seemed to me to be something missing in their mutual attraction that just didn't quite make them believable to me as a couple.  Meanwhile, Lenore suspects Dr. Waite of being up to something nefarious, but only half-heartedly attempts to bring the matter to Simon's attention.  And of course, he doesn't get very excited about her half-formed suspicions at first.   <br /> <br />Though I wouldn't call it a bad book, it did start to lose my interest toward the end. <br /> <br />	2005-06-06
US	52805679	RW7RPS62NWR2L	0373220103	899102169	Legacy	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Well written in the Intrigue line	When Constantine Landry saves Honor Mayfield from following a loan shark right into the hands of the police, she feels fortunate that he was there to keep her out of a troublesome situation.  She is grateful enough to agree to see him again, but still wary of a man who seems just a little too smooth and who tells her next to nothing about himself.   <br /> <br />Conn has been watching Honor for the last few months, just waiting for a way to insinuate himself into her life.  Her unfortunate association with the loan shark gives him the perfect opportunity to play hero.  But as Conn gets closer to Honor, he finds himself getting more than he had bargained for, while finding out little about the matter which had brought him to California, a secret which ties their pasts together. <br /> <br />With an engaging writing style that sets this author apart, the story is set against a backdrop of horse-racing, beach houses and California lifestyle.  The hero's inner-conflict with regard to the heroine keeps the reader engaged and leads to charged climax.   <br /> <br />This story is also available as a reprint, ISBN# 1551661489. <br />	2005-06-06
US	52805679	R2FC7F3HRJ2Q04	0373220081	183460848	Silver Threads	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wow, that was good!	Here's the kind of book that keeps you up all night and looking for other books by the same author the next morning. <br /> <br />Amanda Donovan has a new name, a new history, a new life, and her life depends on keeping her past as Laura Collins a secret.  Then she happens to meet Laura's former lover, Craig Brandon, at a ski resort.  Is it too dangerous to hope that Amanda can pick up where Laura left off? <br /> <br />Craig Brandon has put his life back together after Laura's disappearance and is finally moving on.  He's drawn to Amanda Donovan in a way that hasn't happened in years.  Yet so many things about her remind him of another woman; is it really fair to Amanda to pursue a relationship with her when he knows another woman still lingers in his heart? <br /> <br />As Amanda and Craig become irresistibly drawn to each other, Amanda realizes she's playing with fire and tries to pull away.  Will Craig let his soul mate get away a second time, and will he see through the extensive plastic surgery and realize that the similarities between Amanda and Laura are not all in his head? <br />	2005-04-19
US	52805679	R6NMUCX9KQ7RR	037322009X	193108684	Catspaw	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Very good reading	Ferris Byrd is sent by her fianc, state senator Phillip Merriam (who has pretentions to the US Senate and possibly the White House), to assist his mother with San Francisco's Puffin Ball.  The famous emeralds that are part of the charity event need special security, and everyone insists that Blackheart Inc. are the only ones for the job.  Ferris, however, has reservations about hiring the owner, John Patrick Blackheart, ex-cat-burglar, to safeguard the gems. <br /> <br />Ferris dislikes Blackheart, though (or because) she's drawn to him, he's drawn to her, sparks fly, the jewels are stolen, Blackheart is framed, all what one would expect.  What rates 5 stars is the fact that Stuart is one of what seems to be precious few authors who can elicit an emotional response from a (n admittedly jaded) reader.  (Emotion in a romance novel...what a notion)   <br /> <br />Blackheart does make a charming hero, Ferris is not the annoying heroine she could easily be, and the supporting cast is well drawn.  The action moves right along; there are no places that seem to be just filler for the middle of the book, and the action sequences at the end, though possessed of suspenseful elements, were not so dragged out that I wanted to flip to the end already.   <br /> <br />As an aside, this book originally cost $2.25.  While I was looking for it, I was seeing copies for more than $9, and not much under $4.  While I might pay as much as a new Harlequin for this (including shipping), I wouldn't go higher.  It's good light reading, but not that good! <br />	2005-04-19
US	52805679	R1S41IU2T56QSB	0373220073	250708154	Rainbow Ribbon	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Plot ok, writing not great	Well, the premise of the book seemed refreshing enough in the Harlequin Intrigue world of stalkers, assassins, jewel thieves, and spies...  Becky Sherman's father's trout farm is mysteriously hit by some kind of pollutant that kills a bunch of the fish.  With the proper governmental channels uncooperative, Becky must rely on herself and her newfound ally, part-time student, part-time government employee, and full-time environmentalist, Kevin McClain to find the source of the pollution. <br /> <br />Really, it's not the plot that causes this novel to rate only 2 stars.  The biggest problem here is the amateurish quality of the dialog.  And there's a lot of it.  So maybe the reason I found the characters annoying is just because I was tired of hearing them talk and call each other by name on every page even when they were the only two people in the conversation.   <br /> <br />Then there's my personal pet peeve: when the couple finally takes their relationship to the next level, they shut the door in my face and don't come out until the next morning.  So I'm a voyeur; sue me. <br /> <br />There's no real mystery as to who the polluter is or that justice will prevail, and the other elements of the novel just don't make up for this lack of suspense. <br /> <br />	2005-04-19
US	52805679	RF7WVO5RCE92Y	0373836384	666860873	Dying To Play (Signature Spotlight)	Books	5	19	22	N	N	A good read, as expected	I hope this book will not be missed by Webb fans.   <br /> <br />Because most of Webb's books that I've read are in Harlequin's Intrigue line and limited to 75,000 words, a longer novel in which she has more time to develop characters and plot is a treat.   <br /> <br />The characters in this novel are Elaine Jentzen and Trace Callahan.  Elaine is a highly successful police detective on the rise, and Trace is a burned-out FBI desk jockey hanging by a thread.  They are brought together by the Gamekeeper, the serial killer who precipitated Trace's fall from \\"super agent\\" stardom.   <br /> <br />One thing that's nice about Webb's work is that her heroines kick butt without seeming like men in skirts, and even her weaker male characters are all man and generally in possession of some inner masculine strength.  Elaine bears up beautifully under stressful personal/family situations that keep intruding while her bosses up to the mayor clamor for progress in the investigation.  Trace deals with the suspicions of the local cops and his overall lack of credibility.  He knows the Gamekeeper is back, but the Gamekeeper is supposed to be dead. <br /> <br />I found the romantic plot to be somewhat downplayed, especially in the beginning.  This makes the novel seem, at times, more like mainstream suspense than romance.  But that's not a bad thing in this case.  Totally worth reading and highly recommended. <br />	2005-03-01
US	52805679	R3D20ESD7PTELJ	0373835574	190654314	Striking Distance (Colby Agency)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Lucas and Victoria...finally!	Though not part of the Harlequin Intrigue category, this book continues a story that is on-going within that line.  However, this part of the Colby Agency saga was just too good to try to whittle down to 75,000 words.  So it emerges as a single-title novel which will hopefully be found by Webb's Colby devotees who may be left wondering, Hey, when did that happen?  After all, this is the all-important and much anticipated story of Victoria and Lucas, and also solves the mystery of what really happened to Victoria's son, James Colby, Jr..  But since this book is so stand-alone excellent, let me try to talk about it on its own. <br /> <br />There are really two sets of protagonists in this story, Victoria Colby and Lucas Camp, and the mysterious assassin named Seth and green CIA agent Tasha North.  Usually this kind of multi-plot in a romance takes away from the overall appeal and suggests that neither couple is strong enough to have carried the book.  However, that is certainly not the case here, and the way the Colby series developed makes this approach all the more satisfying.   <br /> <br />Victoria Colby is a hunted woman.  Readers have never really known until this book why she has been stalked all these years by Errol Leberman.  All we have known is that Leberman was responsible for the kidnap, torture, and murder of Victoria's husband, James Colby, and that Victoria believes him to also be responsible for the kidnapping of their child, James Colby Jr., a child she believes has been dead for eighteen years.   <br /> <br />Leberman's grudge extends to Lucas Camp, James Colby's close friend, and a friend and confidant to Victoria all these years that she has dedicated herself to making her late husband's private investigations firm, the Colby Agency, the best in the business.  Lucas's background is varied, heroic, and more secret than the mere CIA.  He's currently involved in Mission Recovery, Webb's spin-off series from Colby, in which he recruits only the best of the best for his covert operations.  All these years that he has stood by her, Lucas has been waiting for Victoria to be ready to put away her grief and move on.  And it seems, at the beginning of  Striking Distance that she is finally ready to put the past behind her and act on her long-suppressed feelings for Lucas. <br /> <br />This, of course, makes it the perfect time for Leberman to launch his ultimate plot against Victoria.  He has an assassin waiting in the wings, ready to finally take her life now that she is finally ready to live it again. An assassin who calls himself Seth, and who is cold, ruthless, and just as dedicated to Victoria's destruction as Leberman himself.  An assassin Leberman has been training these past eighteen years... <br /> <br />Lucas knows that Leberman has an assassin following Victoria.  He knows that in Leberman's twisted mind, this would be the perfect time to strike.  And yet he doesn't know why the assassin hasn't yet made a move against her.  He needs someone to get close to the killer.  Someone who would qualify as the best of the best, and yet, someone who is not so versed in field operations that Seth won't spot her as an agent right away. <br /> <br />Enter Tasha North.  Not your typical Harlequin heroine.  She's not shy and retiring, she hasn't been so focused on other things that she doesn't have any experience with men.  This is a woman who knows that she'll need every weapon at her disposal to eliminate the threat against Victoria Colby and earn herself a spot on the Mission Recovery Team.  She knows her assets and she's not afraid to use them.   <br /> <br />The relationship between Tasha and Seth seems impossible given Seth's nearly inhuman qualities.  But the sort of challenge that presents to the heroine and the author makes it all the more appealing.  Webb handles their relationship in a way that is believable under the circumstances, rather than falling into the trap of creating some sudden, implausible about-face in one of her characters as so many authors are wont to do.   <br /> <br />I found Striking Distance to be an excellent read, as well-paced as a Robert Ludlum adventure, but with better characters and believable romantic entanglements.  Definitely worth any extra trouble to obtain, especially for Colby Agency fans. <br /> <br />If you haven't read the Colby Agency series, start with Webb's Safe By His Side (ISBN: 0-373-22583-0), Harlequin Intrigue #583. <br /> <br />	2005-03-01
US	52805679	R1UGMFK32UBRLZ	0318013231	831492609	The Key	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Harlequin Intrigue #1	Welcome to the Harlequin Intrigue series.  This is title #1.  And a pretty good beginning it is.  We are introduced to Callie Lester on her first day of college.  But she's not the ordinary fresh out of high school freshman.  Callie is twenty-nine years old and has taken a sabbatical from her globe-trotting job as an interpreter to further her education and her career.  At least that's what she claims.  But there's another secret that motivates Callie.  And how is it possible that her attractive and charismatic Russian professor, Sage McCormick could be connected to her past? <br /> <br />An enjoyable novel with well-thought characters, good conflict, and a solid plot.  Published in 1984, many cultural aspects of the book are quite dated and nostalgic.  However, the themes of conspiracy and domestic terrorism have, unfortunately, come back into vogue for today's reader, making the book both dated and timely at the same time.   <br />	2005-03-01
US	52805679	R2EXPB05YUTS8G	0373228074	183365823	Full Exposure (The Colby Agency: Internal Affairs)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Who's the mole?	Fans of the Colby Agency series have undoubtedly been on the edge of their seats to find out which trusted Colby employee has been leaking information to the agencies arch nemesis, the evil Errol Leberman.  And many readers have no doubt been anticipating a book centered on the stone-cold investigative expert Victoria has hired to ferret out the rat, as it were.  Cole Danes was introduced in Harlequin Intrigue #801, Situation: Out of Control (ISBN: 0-373-22801-5) as a ruthless, obsessed investigator who always gets his man, regardless of collateral damage.  This unflattering portrait does not change (to Webb's credit) when he becomes the protagonist in this story.  His calculation and extreme hard-heartedness make him a somewhat unusual hero for Harlequin, but it only enhances the enjoyment of the novel.   <br /> <br />For the past two years, a stranger has made the life of single mom, Angel Parker, a living hell of fear.  A ruthless killer has threatened the life of her child if Angel doesn't discover and pass on the knowledge he needs to perpetrate his evil deeds against Victoria Colby and anyone connected to her.   Just when Angel believes the nightmare is over, a kidnapping proves it has just begun.  Angel's one hope is the man whose job is to turn her in, the very man whom the stranger insists she lead to his execution.   <br /> <br />Can Angel trade one life for another, dearer than her own?  What is the secret Cole Danes keeps that makes this personal?  Is it possible Cole's heart is not made of stone, but beats faintly behind stone walls?  And, if so, can she reach it before times runs out? <br /> <br />For a great start to the Colby Agency saga, read Webb's Safe By His Side (ISBN: 0-373-22583-0), Harlequin Intrigue #583. <br /> <br />	2005-03-01
US	52805679	R3FZ5H04LIL0B	0373220030	136087460	Mistaken Identity	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Ok reading	Julie Domino is an NYU economics professor on summer break whose mother sends her to Greece to find her sister, Emery, who has apparently gone missing.  As Emery, a documentary filmmaker, is given to such disappearances, no one seems particularly worried, but Julie is sent just to make sure everything is all right.  Her strong resemblance to her older sister causes her some trouble with various authorities, and she must turn to Noah Majors, whom she feels is a disreputable spy, to straighten things out. <br /> <br />Julie becomes caught up in a cat-and-mouse game that keeps bringing her into contact with Noah and her disturbing attraction to him.   <br /> <br />I gave this three stars because I did not find it a chore to finish, yet I did not find the romantic plot nor the mystery plot to be particularly enticing.  It wasn't really overwritten, overly clich, or just too darned cheesy to tolerate.  But I felt like I missed something in the final resolution of the mystery, as though the author ran out of steam or was hampered by word count (this seems to happen far too often).  Even the resolution of the romantic plot left some doubt in my mind as to this couple's future.  However, it was entertaining enough most of the way through.   <br />	2005-03-01
US	52805679	R2GH0NN8T00M00	0373228015	751837315	Situation: Out of Control (The Colby Agency: Internal Affairs)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Intrigue #801	Another fantastic edition to the Colby Agency series, this one is labeled: Colby Agency: Internal Affairs.  The story picks up where Webb's Harlequin-published single-title Striking Distance (ISBN: 0-373-83557-4) left off.  The Colby Agency realizes that their arch nemesis, Errol Leberman must have had an accomplice who is still a threat.  Already in the midst of an internal affairs investigation to find out who leaked agency information to Leberman, Colby's latest recruit, an ex-cop named Heath Murphy who has been with the agency such a short time that he does not factor into the current investigation, is dispatched on his first assignment: locate and apprehend Leberman's longtime associate and veritable ghost, Stephen Howard.  To do this, Murphy is ordered to use any means necessary, primarily the only link to Howard: his daughter Jayne.  Unfortunately for Heath, Jayne is a trail guide and rescue worker in Aspen, Colorado's dangerous avalanche country.  Can Heath face the ghosts of his (Cliffhanger-inspired?) past to keep up with the independent Jayne and keep her safe from a father who may want to rid himself of the one person who knows for certain he exists?  And when his locate and apprehend mission turns into an order to execute this known terrorist and assassin, can the ex-cop bring himself to kill the only family of the woman he has come to...love? <br /> <br />For a great start to the Colby Agency saga, read Webb's Safe By His Side (ISBN: 0-373-22583-0), Harlequin Intrigue #583.  And be sure to grab her next Colby book, Harlequin Intrigue #807, Full Exposure, as you'll certainly want to pick it up as soon as you put this one down (ISBN: 0-373-22807-4). <br />	2005-03-01
US	52805679	RHZ5C23RNJVSW	0373220022	356320124	In for a Penny	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The artist and the insurance adjuster	Penny Greenaway is a struggling Manhattan art restorer who is preparing to pack it in and return home to Illinois when insurance adjuster Andrew Keller knocks on her door.  Penny readily accepts a commission to repair a shipment of water-damaged photo reproductions of oil paintings destined for hotel-room art.  It's work that most restorers would claim was beneath them, but the commission will get Penny's telephone turned back on, her air conditioner running, and give her some more time before she has to go home to face her parents.   <br /> <br />Penny and Andy are a true case of opposites attract, Penny being arty and carefree, Andrew being staid, stuffy, and occasionally pompous.  The author does a nice job of setting up the conflict of personalities without being too hokey or glaringly clich about it.  The interaction between the characters is often fun, and even some of the minor characters are well-drawn. <br /> <br />Aside from the personality conflicts, the plot also involves a mystery regarding the shipment of art, and Andrew's choice between Penny and Caroline, the \\"perfect\\" woman, to whom he is \\"engaged to be engaged\\".   <br /> <br />I found In For A Penny to be an enjoyable read, particularly in regard to characterization, with a very nice conclusion. <br />	2005-03-01
US	52805679	R1H6LF5XS974JA	0373220057	813038675	Tangled Lies	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Loved it	I loved this book.  I've read quite a few Intrigues, and I don't say that every day.  Here's the back cover of the book: <br /> <br />She was all caught up in his tangled lies... <br /> <br />The porcelain butterflies arrived like clockwork every year on her birthday.  Rachel Chandler received gifts postmarked from exotic places all over the world from her brother Emmett, who had been living underground since his implication in a bombing in the later 1960's. <br /> <br />After fifteen years, Rachel was about to see Emmett again.  He had surfaced in Hawaii, and nothing could keep her from going to him.  But when they did meet, Rachel knew something was terribly wrong.  She hadn't expected to recognize Emmett right away... but she hadn't expected to be attracted to him either! <br /> <br /> <br />Well, if you need more than that to get you to open the book...  The story is set up very well, with excellent pacing, good characters, and good resolution.  The romance part of the story is handled artfully, actually eliciting an emotional response on the part of the reader.  Recommended reading. <br />	2005-03-01
US	52805679	R69SMUQ97NMAM	0373220049	911935547	Secrets of the Heart	Books	1	0	1	N	N	Overwritten	Melissa McKee is a twenty-eight year old former Washington DC investigative reporter who quits her hectic city life to return to her home town and work at the small local newspaper.  She doesn't stay there long, as circumstances arise such that her investigative skills are needed by her editor's relatives and she is sent to a Montana ranch/reform school.  The program is run by the irresistible (apparently) Robert Redding who is suspected, by the aforementioned relatives, of mistreating his inmates.  It's lust at first sight for Redding and McKee, as McKee poses as one of the delinquents.  Romance ensues.<br /><br />I believe the most correct adjective for this novel is \\"overwritten\\".  It's filled with simile and easily has 3 times as many adjectives as any other sort of word.  Despite all this description, the characters are flat and clich&eacute;, and the style of their romance, where a supposedly intelligent adult woman (who, coincidentally, appears more like a sixteen year old girl) is constantly helpless and stupefied whenever in the presence of the gorgeous, mustachioed man, seems more suited to a historical romance than something that is meant to be contemporary.  Though this was probably more acceptable in 1984 when the book was published, I don't think it will impress today's readers over the age of thirteen.  Sadly, the story is also less than interesting and the resolution of the plot employs a device which has lost its punch over the years as well.	2005-03-01
US	52805679	RHUE931PM068W	0399106855	263461781	The Reluctant Widow.	Books	3	18	31	N	N	Romance?	I love Georgette Heyer, and this book just didn't do it for me.  The writing is still great, that can't be denied, utterly charming descriptions and dialogue.  I think what got to me was the utter lack of romance here.  There weren't even hints to suggest that a romance might be brewing, and I really felt that I was just going on faith that this was indeed a romance novel and I would be rewarded in the end for my perseverence.  And I was, I suppose, but I really didn't get any warm and fuzzy feeling out of it.  I wasn't reading it because I wanted to read a mystery novel, so by the time she got to the denouement, I was so starved for romance that I couldn't have cared less about the resolution of that part of the plot.  <br />In short, unless you are a die-hard fan of her style, I wouldn't go out of my way to obtain this one.	2003-02-26
US	52805679	R2TIRGCH2AD6VS	1591170028	396387509	How to Teach Your Baby Math	Books	4	18	18	N	Y	A very interesting notion	Disclaimer: I actually have no children at this time on which to try this method, so unfortunately I have only to pester my friends to read the book to try it out and cannot speak to the results.  That aside, the book was, in itself, tremendously interesting to me.  <br />The idea of the &quot;Gentle Revolution&quot; is that children are able to take in and process tremendous amounts of information beginning at birth.  This period of intense and specialized learning is to come to a close around the age of five, coincidentally the same time at which most children begin to be formally trained.  The author developed his theory, originally, through his work with children who had sustained all different types of brain injury.  His discoveries about their learning processes, led to discoveries about the learning process for all children.  <br />The reason that I had to give this book four stars, although I did find it so fascinating, is that, if you have read How to Teach Your Baby to Read, you will find that at least half of this book is a reprint of that, with reading taken out and mathematics put in its place.  The book does pick up again when they get away from convincing you that you should try this and why, and get to the actual method.<br />The author believes that babies can learn math instantly and quantitatively.  He believes that a baby can look at an 11&quot;x11&quot; white card with a lot of 3/4&quot; red dots on it, and immediately know that there are 79 dots.  It all seems very &quot;Rainman&quot;.  He suggests that numbers, or numerals, only serve to confuse the situation, and that babies can be taught math using pure quanities, without the numbers getting in the way.  The steps involved include recognizing quanities instantly, addition, subraction, multiplication and division, simple algebra, sequences, etc..<br />The method seems simple enough, if one is willing to put forth the effort to make up the flash cards and spend the few minutes each day it takes to go through them with the baby. <br />The book also decribes the different ways one might approach this program given different age groups, such as newborn to three months, eighteen to thirty months, up to five and six year olds, and encourages that whatever you do and whatever effort at whatever stage you do it, can only benefit your child.<br />I would recommend this book if you are interested in raising an exceptional child, or even if you just have a general interest in the brain and the learning process.	2003-02-25
US	52805679	R3FFGWNVJF586B	0373834489	81836383	The Corinthian	Books	5	25	27	N	N	Wholly charming!	Sir Richard Wyndham is a Man of Fashion, a dandy, but he prefers the term Corinthian, if you please.  He is somewhat bored with his life as a trendsetter of the haut ton, and is being forced to seriously consider a somewhat irksome marriage of convenience when he is waylaid by circumstance to aid Miss Penelope Creed, an heiress not yet out in society, on a quest to elope with her childhood sweetheart in an effort of avoid a match with her fish-faced cousin.  <br />The plot of the story is light-hearted and fun, full of adventure and misadventure.  But it is Heyer's style, much reminiscent of Jane Austen's yet more colorful and engaging, that makes this book truly delightful.  It is a must read for her description of a proper dandy alone.  There were many places where I could not help but chuckle aloud.<br />I know you will find it more than worth your effort to hunt down and read this book!	2003-02-25
US	52805679	R1UTNWR1OK0NLN	0451458699	757037897	The Skull of the World: Witches of Eileanan #5	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Isabeau is SO back	Book five of the series, the Skull of the World, brings us back to Isabeau and all of her complexity as a character.  Introduced to us as an innocent orphan, fledgling witch, and impulsive girl, she is now a woman, who has lived adventure, suffered torture, endure privations, found her twin sister and both of her parents, and reared a child.  She has been studying with the Kahn'cohbans, her father's tribe of fierce faery warriors, learning discipline, fighting, and survival skills, and the skills of their Soul Sage.  She makes the perilous journey to the Skull of the World to find her name and her totem.  Her education with the Kahn'cohbans complete, she returns to her own people, to take her Test and be inducted into the Coven of Witches.  She then begins to study in earnest so that she can pass her Sorceress Test.    Lachlan and Iseult are away during this time, caught up in the action of book four.  While they are away, the royal children are kidnapped, and Isabeau is framed for the crime.  Narrowly evading capture, she is the only one who can follow and rescue the children.  But it is a mission that requires her to use all of her powers and wits.      Overcome with sorcery sickness from this overuse of her powers, she becomes marooned on the very island on which the former Banrigh, Maya the Ensorcellor, has been hiding.  There Isabeau must confront her ambivalent feelings about Maya.    As we know the outcome of Lachlan's and Iseult's journey to Tirsollier from book four, Forsyth keeps us interested in the fate of Eileanan by bringing the sea people, the Fairgean, into focus.  In addition to giving us a closer look at its people in the characters of a prince named Nila and his lover, a half-breed slave named Fand, she also gives us a look at what their priestesses have in mind for the Witches of Eileanan and the rest of the humans.    This book doesn't seem to have as much going on all at once, like some of the earlier books, partly because it is taking place atthe same time as book four.  I think that made it a more enjoyable read.  We were allowed, with fewer interruptions, to concentrate on Isabeau, who is a wonderful, rich character, with whom we have travelled for some time.  It is very satisfying to see her come into her power in this book, and you'll know she has more in store for us in the next book, The Fathomless Caves.	2003-02-15
US	52805679	R2C99N8W7UIIJ4	0451458281	230581414	The Forbidden Land: Book four of the Witches of Eileanan	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A departure of sorts, but a pleasant one...	I think it may be easier to read this book now, when they are all available than when anxious readers were awaiting publication.  Now you can enjoy this for what it is and not be upset that you'll have to wait again to hear news of Isabeau.    The Forbidden Land is a fresh, compelling book in the middle of a series.  Forsyth switches the perspective and action to center around Finn, the banpronnsa of the MacRuriach clan.  Finn was introduced in book two, the Pool of Two Moons, as a street child and accomplished thief.  Discovered to be the long-lost daughter of the Prionnsa of Rurach, stolen by the former Banrigh Maya to ensure the loyalty of the clan, she is taken back to her ancestral home to be united with her family.    But a girl raised on the streets, living by her wits, who has even played an important role in the rebellion, finds the constraints of court life rather tame.  So she is more than happy to leave when the Righ's spies, travelling in their guise of a caravan of entertainers, ask for her help with a secret mission.  All she has to do is sail to an enemy country, through the sea which is infested with sea-serpents and the sea race of Fairgean that wants all humans dead, climb hundreds of feet up an impregnable fortress, rescue an old, frail, maimed prophet, and sail back.  Maybe not the easiest thing in the world, but it apparently beats embroidery.    Lachlan's plans to restore the banprionnsa Efrida to her throne continue, and I think this is the book where I started to feel real respect for him.  The war with the Bright Soldiers from Tirsollier continues, but is beginning to turn.  The Tirsollierian people are ruled by a theocracy which enforces belief in their religion, expects its people to worship multiple times each day, and to dress in somber colors, without ornamentation, despite the predeliction of its aristocracy to array themselves in gaudy clothing and jewels.    While the politics of the Tirsollierian are undoubtably meant to make us think of Christianity, what's refreshing about Forsyth is that she doesn't demonize them.  The Coven, and all the people of Eileanan who revere Ea, Who is in all things, believe fervently that everyone should be free to make their own choices and to have beliefs that they may not share.  This makes them seem so much more noble than when authors hiss and spit and rail at the oppression of the Church.      This fourth book, though a departure of sorts, was so compelling that I almost couldn't put it down and read through it much faster than any of the others.  Also, just because it's about Finn, and not about Isabeau, does not mean that you can skip it.  The story definately progresses through this book to the next, the Skull of the World.	2003-02-15
US	52805679	R2ZVJFR6DPWMHL	0451456912	440459606	Cursed Towers (Witches of Eileanan)	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	A good middle book...	Wow, you know what really surprised me?  I was coming to write:     <br />Book three, The Cursed Towers, is a middle book, there's no doubt about it.  It's a bit longer than the rest, and at times it requires some pushing to read through.  But it's worth it.<br />And here are all these reviews, mostly positive, many by people who enjoyed it even more than the first two books!  That's great.  Maybe I was having a bad week.  I gave it five stars because it is part of a story that, as a whole, deserves more than five.  There was nothing bad about it, and looking back after having read to the end of the series, it seems even better now.  <br />So on to the summary...<br />Isabeau the apprentice witch, her twin sister Iseult the Scarred Warrior, Lachlan the Winged have suceeded in rescuing the Lodestar, ancient scepter of the MacCuinn clan's power.  Lachlan's brother, Jaspar, has died, his treacherous wife, Maya the Ensorcellor has fled, and Lachlan and Iseult sit on the throne as Righ and Banrigh.  But the story is far from a happy ending.<br />The country is rife with war.  Civil war erupts in the land with Lachlan's ascention to the throne.  Before his death, Jaspar names his infant daughter, Bronwyn, as his sucessor, with Maya as Regent.  Maya's Red Guard, with the Seekers of the Awl of her Anti-Witchcraft League, are gaining the support of many citizens to restore the baby Banrigh to her throne.  Lachlan's restoration of the witches' Coven and his decree against the persection of faery creatures have been unpopular with many.  With help from an old enemy to the crown, the neighboring country of Tirsolleir has sent its Bright Soldiers marching on the land.  And, if that weren't enough, the Fairgean, the sea people, ancient enimeies of the humans, have breached their defenses and menace the costal regions.<br />Isabeau finds she must flee the Righ's palace for the safety of the baby, Bronwyn, whom she has cared for since her birth, as well as her rebellious horse friend, Lasair.  She finds she must seek out the wisdom of her father's people, the fierce snow faeries.  And so, Isabeau puts aside her Coven studies for a time, to begin her training with the Khan'cohban warriors.  Their ways and customs are completly foriegn to her, and though she finds it difficult, and is often punished severly for her mistakes, she submits to their teachings, knowing that this is part of her destiny.<br />Though for me it read somewhat more slowly, it is as rich in imagery as the other books.  Everything in it is important to the story as a whole, and the reader will be glad later on for having stuck with it.<br />The world and its characters continue to grow in scope and completxity.  One wonders, how Isabeau, SO impetuous, and so not like Iseult, can possibly get by in Iseult's world?  How can Lachlan, who is SO hot-headed and so often driven by emotion, and who is so young and inexperienced, possibly prevail in this three-sided assault on his throne?  Why is Lachlan so nasty to Isabeau, who could really use a little kindness, when she is more like him than anyone else? <br />These are just some of the questions which, while not necessarily answered here, serve to drive the story.  There are others, but I'm trying not give away plot here. <br />Enjoy the Cursed Towers and move on into The Forbidden Land.	2003-02-15
US	52805679	R2UT8UBXMB5ZQI	0451459024	111698276	The Fathomless Caves: Book Six of the Witches of Eileanan	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Great ending to a great series	Book six, The Fathomless Caves, is a great ending to the Witches of Eileanan series.  Though I can see points at which the author could branch off to write other books, there is definately a satifsying closure for the main characters and action.  <br />Leading up to the final trial, which is a no holds barred, battle to the death that stretches everyone to their limits, there is a test of the royal marriage, Iseult's return to the Spine of the World, a confrontation between Lachlan and Isabeau regarding his behavior toward her, Maya's capture by the Righ, and Isabeau's confronting of her personal demons and her feelings regarding Dide the Jugglar.<br />The main focus of the action here is the war with the Fairgean, the sea people who are sworn enemies of the humans.  Obviously, they are bad creatures, because they keep coming up onto the human's land and killing everyone, even children, raping women, taking slaves, all that bad war stuff.  But Forsyth does the same thing in characterizing the Fairgean as a people that she does with her individual characters.  She shows them as a product of their experiences, most specifically, their experiences with the humans over the last few hundred years.  The humans come to be seen as less than virtuous, less than completely in the right, and the Fairgean become not quite the mindless villains they may have seemed.  One wonders if, with hundreds of years of history of war and attempted genocide, these people could ever find a way to coexist.  And whereas a few books ago we might not have been upset had the humans managed to wipe out the Fairgean completely, now that we have met a few and are seeing them as a people, that no longer seems a viable option for a good ending.  Or is it?  <br />The struggle between these two peoples becomes something like a good romance novel.  You know both sides have their flaws, and everything's against them, but you really want them to work it out, no matter how much it hurts.<br />Well, you throw that in with all the individual conclusions, and the amazing action of the finale, and it makes for a great ending.<br />I have enjoyed this series immensely.  It's great to read strong female characters, especially when those characters are actually women, and not just more guys in drag with girlie names.  The characterization is brilliant, with characters who continue to grow, from the first pages to the last, who make mistakes, who fall into peril, but who, while ever-changing, mangage to hold on to a sense of self that made you fall for them in the first place.  The imagery is lovely, and varied, and the use of Celtic and Wiccan lore highly enjoyable.  <br />If you're coming to read this review not having read any other the other books, I would suggest you look up The Witches of Eileanan, because you deserve to enjoy this from the very beginning.  It will be worth getting here the long way.	2003-02-15
US	52805679	RYCEMFDS8BJ1E	0451456904	180903245	The Pool of Two Moons: Witches of Eileanen Book 2 (Witches of Eileanan)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Now that you're hooked on Eileanan...	In this second book, Isabeau takes a bit of a back seat, recovering from her ordeal in delivering the talisman, and learning humility and obedience as a servant in the Righ's palace.  There is a shift of interest to her twin sister, Iseult, whom Meghan discovered when she visited the Dragons.  Iseult, raised by her faery kin on the icy Spine of the World, seems as different from Isabeau as night is from day.  where Isabeau is laughing, impetuous, and headstrong, Iseult, raised by a tribe of fierce warriors in a dangerous, snowy land, is solemn and disciplined.  Meghan convinces Iseult that she must leave her tribe and seek out her destiny among her mother's people. Meghan and Iseult meet up with the lost prionssa who has been hiding for years, since escaping from his brother's treacherous wife.  He is a bitter young man, passionate in his desire for revenge against the Banrigh, Maya the Ensorcellor.  Guided by Meghan, he and Iseult set off on the dangerous quest to unite the rebels, depose the Banrigh, and restore the Coven.  To do this, they must rescue the Lodestar, an ancient magical scepter which has been locked away since the day the witches were betrayed, and which is dying from lack of contact with the royal family. The character of the prionssa is delightfully complex.  Just because he's supposed to be some kind of hero to the people and to us doesn't mean they or we always like him, and it doesn't mean he always does everything right.  Some people prefer cardboard cutout characters that are some kind of archetypal representation of an idea of a hero or a villan or a leader or an ingenue.  And some people like characters who are made from their experiences, with a dash of nobility of character which makes them strive to overcome their experiences to be and do more.  The latter should be pleased.  When you finish The Pool of Two Moons, I know you won't be able to wait for The Cursed Towers (so maybe order them both together).	2003-02-15
US	52805679	R169YDGFTC9VG9	0380899825	801007174	Hearts Aflame (Haardrad Family)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	My first Lindsey	I picked up this book in a hotel gift shop many years ago, and it was the first book I had ever read by Johanna Lindsey.  Since then I have bought up everything she has written.  While her recent books are entertaining, they do not seem to have the same heart-wrenching quality as some of her earlier work.  If you like what you've read in her recent work, try this as well as Secret Fire, and The Fires of Winter.	2002-06-06
US	52805679	R1HJMU82UAKH1O	0486272761	252104753	Women's Fashions of the Early 1900s: An Unabridged Republication of "New York Fashions, 1909"	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Lots of pictures to ooh and aah over	This is reprint of a 1909 catalog.  Catalogs are a great reference for looking at clothes because they are always shown clearly, from head to toe, and in all the important details are pointed out for you.  This book is an  excellent resource for inspiration for suit jackets, skirts, lace blouses,  inimate apparel, and heirloom clothing for children.	2000-06-19
US	52805679	R3LOLA70NUHW33	1571200185	871069525	Kaleidoscopes and Quilts	Books	5	41	43	N	N	Can that be fabric?	Ever think that you'd like depart from traditional patchwork and make an art quilt that will make people gasp?  Open this book.  The quilts photographed in this book are amazing.  And the idea seems so simple, once  it's broken down for you in painstaking detail.  You'll learn about  selecting a collection of fabrics for kaleidoscope quilts, and how to look  at them and create patterns for your own kaleidoscopes.  No two need ever  be alike.	2000-06-19
US	52805679	R1Y6XB46F733WD	0764309196	196813179	Blueprints of Fashion: Home Sewing Patterns of 1950s	Books	5	35	36	N	N	Wonderful reference for dressmakers and fifties lovers	This book begins with an interesting overview of the beginnings of the home-sewing pattern industry, and has many interesting tidbits on that alone.  But the real treat is page upon page of reproductions of the fronts  of pattern envelopes from the fifties, most in color, and all beautiful.   Hundreds of ideas for clothing for today.	2000-06-19
US	52805679	R2LOVK0S3UZ48M	0865732566	49280907	Decorative Machine Stitching (Singer)	Books	4	44	44	N	N	Covers a variety of techniques	If you don't have the book to flip through, I suppose the most important thing to know is: what techniques are covered?  Briefly, sewing with decorative pattern stitches, applique, including fused, reverse, padded,  transparent, shadow, and embellishing appliques, cutwork, fagoting,  hemstitching, pintucks, french heirloom sewing by machine, battenberg lace,  and free-motion stitching including thread painting and monograms.  The  book also covers specialty threads, feet, needles, stabilizers, and  adjusting tension.  Although there are plenty of books that cover each one  of these techniques in depth, this is a great resource for beginners in  embellishment to show a variety of possibilities.  As with all Singer  books, step-by-step color photos with numbered instructions.	2000-06-19
US	52805679	R1UHHS7LDW2K73	0942391888	848575960	Couture Sewing Techniques, Revised and Updated	Books	5	153	153	N	N	Not just pretty pictures	Though there are wonderful pictures of couture garments, this is a how-to book.  It is filled with detailed instruction and many easy to follow diagrams.  &quot;Haute Couture&quot; is defined, and the chapter  &quot;Inside the World of Haute Couture&quot; will be of interest to anyone  who loves sewing or clothing.  Then she goes on to discuss many couture  techniques and applies them to a number of garments that any intermediate  sewer could duplicate.  This is how you get from intermediate to advanced!   The best book I've found for information on women's tailoring, and it  includes my favorite reference when someone asks me how to make bound  buttonholes.  If you want to take your sewing to the next level, get this  book in your library.	2000-06-19
US	52805679	R25ASMEMKWVLPG	1561580155	910127919	Shirtmaking: Developing Skills For Fine Sewing	Books	5	150	153	N	N	One of my favorite sewing references ever!	And I own quite a few.  This book takes you step by step through shirtmaking, for men or women.  But it's not just making shirts, it's about fine sewing.  There are all sorts of details in the book, seam finishes,  high-end details, discussions about shirting fabrics.  It's the sort of  book that makes you want to be a quality seamstress.  Every page gives you  the sense of how much the authors knows and loves this craft.  Excellent  how-to illustrations, and wonderful photos of finished garments.  I  recommend it for any level sewer.	2000-06-19
US	52805679	RE48C1KDHA5L7	076430304X	276786845	Blueprints of Fashion: Home Sewing Patterns of the 1940s (Schiffer Book for Collectors)	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Beautiful resource for forties fashion and sewing	This book begins with a lot of information about sewing pattern companies, sewing in the beginning half of the century, and fashion changes during the forties that are worth the price of this book.  The second half is all  reproductions of the fronts of pattern envelopes which provide inspiration  for design as well as pointing out how much more advanced the average sewer  seemed to be in the forties compared to today.	2000-06-19
US	52805679	R2S9VO6JZQUNHD	067398026X	621085056	Patternmaking for Fashion Design	Books	5	110	114	N	N	The textbook I go back to most often	This was one of my favorite textbooks from design school.  It's the one I refer back to most often, because I know what I want will be there, and will be presented clearly.  It is the most complete reference I have in my  library for flat-patternmaking, and covers everything from making basic  slopers from measurements (the book provides measurements for standard  sizes, or substitute a real client's), through all sorts of bodices,  sleeves, collars, skirts, pants, and other details.  Also included are  sections on knitwear, including swimwear, and a good portion of the book is  devoted to children's clothing.  Highly recommended and well worth the  price.	2000-06-19
US	52805679	R366KM9EL7EW9R	1561580872	175481773	Easy Guide to Sewing Jackets: Sewing Companion Library	Books	3	51	51	N	N	Not suitable for experienced, but great for the beginner.	This book covers everything you need to know to make a very basic, collarless jacket.  Topics discussed include silhouettes, accurate measuring, fabric and interfacing choices, fitting, seam finishes, and step-by-step instuctions on assembling the jacket.  However, the book does not cover welt and bound pockets (only patch pockets are included), bound buttonholes, collars and lapels- especially the notched collar.  Tailoring and shaping are also excluded.  (For a good overview of all of these techniques and some other goodies, check out Claire Shaeffer's &quot;Couture Sewing Techniques; Taunton Press, 1993)  The book is perfectly suited for those who may be wary of undertaking a jacket.  The instructions are clear and there are many photographs.  There is even a section that breaks down the sewing steps for a weekend jacket project, which is encouraging.	1998-07-14
