US	52813241	R6V86FG80GPIZ	0836924487	939366349	The Western Intellectual Tradition, from Leonardo to Hegel (Essay index reprint series)	Books	5	19	49	N	N	Masterful Tributary Synthesis	This is one of those survey books, in the style of the learned, impartial treatise by the wise man. But here, we have Bronowski the wise but biased man. He says evolution is true, and that as time goes by, we understand it better and better. By contrast, he's got a problem with John Calvin, to the point of qualifying as something of a \\"Calvinphobe.\\" We'll get back to that; but first, as a survey text, this is popular at the college level.<br />Bronowski here was intends to tie it all up, or integrate a Western world view: History, politics, science, achievement, and freedom. Bronowski delivers on this assignment, and convincingly argues that the matrix of the modern Western world can be boiled down and studied. Bernard Lewis of Princeton would agree, and Lewis has contributed to this subject by looking at how much of the Islamic world, by contrast to the \\"West\\" (anyplace controlled by Europeans), has hankered after the money and the technology of the West, but has rejected \\"Westernization.\\" Consequently, says Lewis, non-Westerners are left with modern versions of non-Western societies, and their people still want to leave to express themselves elsewhere.<br />Bronowski can explain why. He has it down to two main ideas (by the time you hit his conclusion after almost 500 pages). First: The Renaissance launched the idea of developing your human personality, which means realizing the \\"potential of many gifts\\" and \\"fulfill[ing] these gifts in the development of their own lives\\" (Hardcover, p. 499) insofar as these are \\"special gifts with which a man is endowed.\\" (Id., logical reference to the Apostle Paul in Romans 12 omitted by Bronowski, but what the heck); and second: \\"the idea of freedom\\" (Hardcover again, p. 500). Since \\"human fulfillment is unattainable without freedom...these two main ideas are linked,\\" says Bronowski (somehow missing Paul's letter to the Galatians, articulating this about 15 centuries prior to the Renaissance, but like I said, we all have our point of view).<br />Bronowski applies his two points in the first 400 or so pages: how human fulfillment and freedom have inspired and produced the scientific and technical progress, which in turn has produced leisure time unimaginable to all but a few rulers in earlier eras of history. Now the Islamic world will point out that this thesis conveniently starts 500 years after the glories and achievements of the Muslims were already firmly established. And we can also see how these same two impulses were released and also channeled by Christianity, 600 years before Mohammed. But isn't it a great thing to be free to express all of this in our own free time? And free to dispute it, in creative, progressive societies in which opposition is legalized, to achieve what Bronowski calls \\"this balance between power and dissent\\" which \\"is the heart of Western civilization.\\" (p. 501). The conflict of dissenting ideas overtaking established ones, and fulfilling some thinker's potential contribution to our machinery, art, navigation, or hey, maybe legal administration-is how \\"history is made.\\" People putting their stamp on ideas. Idea driven people stamping out automobiles; or compressing information to travel through glass fibers.	2002-05-18
US	52813241	R32H8XNSENC9JU	0812533429	556186640	Hans Brinker or the Silver Skates (Complete and Unabridged)	Books	5	27	32	N	N	Canals as Connections	With a book like this, many readers cheat themselves by assuming that they already know what it's about, because they heard the outline of the story before, and therefore they have no need to really read it.  A lot like the way some people treat the Bible, or at least large parts of the Bible.  Anyway, I recently re-read this book to one of my daughters, and can report that upon close consideration, this book is really a retrospective Calvinistic explanation for how old Dr. Boekman finds a successor for his surgical practice, following Dr. Boekman's disappointment in his only son, who never liked medicine and who in fact found a reason to run away from Holland to resettle in England to pursue a business career.  The rich descriptions of Dutch history and culture form the context for this drama.<br /> Consequently, Dr. Boekman's whole outlook on life, exemplified by his perpetual frown, descends into depression as he humorlessly goes about his surgical practice, all the while increasing his fame which radiates from Amsterdam far out into the provinces, symbolized by the transportation and communication pathway of the frozen canals, over which all ages and classes of people happily skate through what used to be extremely cold winter months in Holland.  These canals have not frozen solid on a regular basis for many decades.<br /> These frozen canals in turn exemplify Dr. Boekman's frozen heart, which ultimately gets melted as a result of the importuning of  Raff Brinker's son, young Hans, who cajoles old Dr. Boekman into taking a look at old Raff, who has been an invalid since suffering a closed head trauma while working out on the dikes during a fierce storm. <br /> Dr. Boekman ends up surgically unblocking the \\"brainfreeze\\" suffered by Raff Brinker, who comes back to life \\"talking like an Amsterdam lawyer\\" which is a complete turn around from his invalid state where he appeared to be a distant, angry, barely controllable hulk crouching in his house by the fire, and casting a gloom of social obloquy which tainted not only his children, but his very cottage, in the eyes of most of the other respectable members of Dutch society, as they skated by on their local frozen canal.<br />By the end of the book, the connection achieved by Hans Brinker between his remote father and the remote surgeon seems to have spread, or networked, and young Hans is a rising surgeon practicing with Dr. Boekman, and happily married, while Dr. Boekman's biological son returns, or is redeemed back from England to practice a bustling business trade also in Amsterdam.  The silver skates and the races on the canals are mainly a way for Hans to prove something to himself, that he can set his mind to what he wishes to achieve, and against all odds achieve it.  The fact that all of this works to bring reconciliation and happiness back into people who are disconnected and frozen, rather than constituting a sappy, Dickensian series of unlikely coincidences, instead creates more of an echo of predestination than merely a \\"happy ending.\\"<br /> But then again, this is only one explanation of what we have here in this classic book.	2002-05-17
US	52813241	R4R57MCR7IHZ8	0316769487	862964341	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Just J.D. and Me	Anyone who has yearned to tell a spontaneous, elaborate lie to a total stranger, just for the heck of it, will love the character of Holden Caulfield in this book.  That's OK as far as it goes, but when assassins of popular cultural icons, like John Lennon's killer, seek to relate their motives for evil actions by referring to this book, what does that mean?<br />It means this book can also function as a magnet for the unhinged, who wish to be free by reinventing themselves.<br />The whole catching image articulated by irresponsible young Holden is hard to understand, too, and who really knows what a field of rye looks like anyway?  Why the cliff image?  Could it be that being caught in a big whopping lie is like suddenly falling over a cliff?  No way to repair it?  Just time for sudden, dramatic consequences?<br />Salinger is a riveting personality, and also a great anti-hero, exemplified by his resolution to never talk to a single critic about this book, with the sole exception of a girl writing for her high school newspaper.  Maybe he was tired of over-serious, over-credentialed literati types, who are too late and too ill-equipped to redeem their heavy, boring lives from their earlier failure to embrace a little more spontaneity, a little more fun, a little more high school newspaper derring-do.  <br />Whatever it is, it's still fun to read.  Buy this book and carry it around and just watch the looks you get.  Especially airports and bus stations, teeming with would-be foils for the next Holden Caulfield to play with.	2002-05-16
US	52813241	R2B24RSJWFGCCY	0842318089	894734344	How Now Shall We Live?	Books	2	8	28	N	N	I Hate to Be Negative, Chuck, But Here Goes.....	Colson's book Born Again really had a heart to it, and the tape he made as a follow on was authentic and gripping.  Colson has come a long way, and has done a lot of good work.  He has made the transition from prison minister to prophetic voice, doing what he can to address things in our culture we can be more aware of, and work to improve, as a reflection of Christian belief in action.<br />But there's a little piece of cultural throwback that attaches to Chuck:  He feels a little too guilty about being such an arts & letters philistine.  He has a chapter in here about how we all need to engage more in the world outside of churchy, familiar circles, and picks as an example the rich tradition of classical music.  He confesses that he knows little about it, but is disciplining himself listen to the great classical symphonies, even as he admits to having a \\"tin ear.\\"<br />Hold it, just wait a minute here. Look at the lyrics of some of these symphonies and operas.  Look at the lives of the composers.  Then, re-evaluate the choice of classical music.  The perceptive reader of this, who may by this time have felt guilty about liking rock and roll better (with or without including such music produced by Christians) can rest easy.  Maybe we can stop forcing ourselves to denigrate modern music, especially if the alternative classical offerings contain imagery and lyrics just as bad as Black Sabbath, the Rolling Stones, or whatever other goblin-band might otherwise not make it onto Chuck's listening list.<br />Ah, so Colson has a point of view.  It's a little stodgy, and I think he has to admit it.  You're true, Chuck, but I don't think you're cool.  Many people who think this book is a roadmap for all may not agree with me.  It's not for everyone.  It's a negative cultural message that says things you don't like are good for you, even if Chuck also dislikes them.  Don't be such a [bore], Chuck.  Get some newer CDs, and be free.	2002-05-15
US	52813241	R31ZTYJADTKVFK	0689121350	223110950	Steve Jobs & the Next Big Thing	Books	3	6	9	N	N	So Long Ross, and thanks for the millions	It could be that this author, who has written some very readable and penetrating stuff about Microsoft, ran into a problem when writing about Jobs.  Jobs comes across as so negative, confused, and just plain destructive that Stross's book leaves a bad taste in your mouth.  But this is still a very worthwhile book, and contains some good lessons, which Ross Perot learned were very expensive lessons:<br />1.  Don't invest in someone just because they're cool, or at least cooler than you.  Alpha-Nerd Perot sees a TV special on Steve Jobs, and exclaims how Jobs is \\"Mr. Excitement\\" or some such superlative.  He promptly plunks down huge money to invest in the \\"Next\\" computer, which is portrayed as revolutionary hardware.  But no one really knows up front what they're investing in.  So what, it makes Ross feel like he can transform some of that hard-scrabble, uptight crew-cutness of his into hip, long hair, do-drugs California investing.<br />2. Watch the press releases.  The big bomb that's hidden in a press release discloses that Next has dropped it's hardware business, and will now be developing innovative software.  Which bombed.  So Ross went in investing in one thing, and came out investing in something else.<br />3. Cool people scream a lot when things get uncool.  The rest of the book is the typical tantrum about Jobs acting hard-to-manage.	2002-05-14
US	52813241	R27URXZMOU06CU	0374524246	282148459	Skadden: Power, Money, and the Rise of a Legal Empire	Books	5	12	19	N	N	Doodle Joe	There's usually something important to be learned by the absent minded habits of the great and powerful.  This book includes one about Joe Flom:  He likes to fill the  margins of his notes with tightly wound, intricate geometric patters that are uniquely his own design.  The author doesn't read much more into it, but there's no reason we readers can't.  According the author, Mr. Flom can also be a little brusque in private.<br />For law students in particular, this book is a good dose of reality if they are wondering what it's really like to work in a big firm.  Interesting critique of the usefulness of this book:  I recently asked a Skadden associate (not in their NY office) how he liked this book, and he had not read it.  He had to look it up on the firm's website to determine what I was talking about.  So this book can help the non-Skadden population understand the Skadden firm perhaps better than the firm understands itself.  That would be the ultimate tribute to the author, and a Delphic oracle to Skadden's leadership.<br />Since reading this, I cannot help thinking of Joe Flom whenever I'm trapped in some boring meeting, or sidelined in court, waiting for my case to be called.  \\"Can I doodle as well as him?\\" I ask myself.  Then the case is called, or the meeting accelerates, and--poof!--the evanescent reminder of old Joe Flom disappears along with it.	2002-05-14
US	52813241	R3JMA1WPKPZ43C	0684831422	260759335	Founding Father: Rediscovering George Washington	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Brookhiser Hits a New Level	Brookhiser has done two things here.  First, he has contributed to our understanding of our first president, who for so many has become just a face on a quarter, or a hairdo on a one dollar bill.  George Washington was so big, that his legacy can handle many more books.  This book serves as an incisive thematic essay, grounded in the perspective of fathering, and fathering a whole country.  The fact that Washington never fathered any of his own children makes this more interesting.<br />Second, we have here a new, more serious Brookhiser, shown by his subsequent biography of Alexander Hamilton.  Brookhiser cut his teeth writing for National Review, and wrote some incredibly perceptive essays on the Republican primary contestants in 1980.  The good news is that he has deepened as a writer, and now shows that he can also research back in time.<br />This book reads fast, but sinks deep.  Buy it, read it.	2002-05-13
US	52813241	R2Y0RNQIJ2QK8A	0684839199	419002241	Alexander Hamilton, American	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Time Slices of Hamilton	Hamilton seems hard to capture definitively.  Some books paint him as an extreme, militaristic nut case; some as Christian martyr (based on some of his deathbed utterances); some as brilliant power monger.  Here, Brookhiser presents a portrait of Hamilton as honest man making his way in the world as a soldier, lawyer, and almost-statesman.  Brookhiser hits hard on Hamilton's gift for simplifying great issues in writing and in oral argument before courts, and one of his most interesting slices of time he explores is Hamilton in private practice after leaving the government.  A French visitor is shocked to see Hamilton working late at night in his law office to make ends meet.  The French guy assumes that anyone who has been so high up in government is naturally rich as a result of skillfully raking off graft from corruption, and just can't get over Hamilton actually working.<br />The dark side of this, as Brookhiser shows, is that Hamilton's tendency to go off after wild, big ideas and projects also tended to spill his great efforts onto unpaid ground, so to speak, leaving his large family with nothing to speak of upon his death.  Brookhiser does not square this with the fact that Hamilton's wife came from the wealthy old knickerbocker family of the Schuyler's, so we have to take his own word for it on the poverty issue.<br />So if you work hard, you may not die rich.  But you  may still achieve lasting fame.  How Hamilton did it is all here, or here enough, to be a great read.	2002-05-13
US	52813241	R2ORZ7SVVURLM7	0670882356	985444832	When Character Was King: A Story of Ronald Reagan	Books	4	11	15	N	N	Fully Kreusened Noonan on Reagan	Noonan has come into her own on the topic of Reagan in this book.  Her earlier &quot;What I Saw at the Revolution&quot; was not as insider-ish, as seen in her distance from Nancy Reagan disclosed at that time.  Now Nancy is her lunch partner and confidante as this is written, showing Noonan the very notes Ronnie scribbled to Nancy as he was coming out of anesthesia in the recovery room at George Washington Medical Center.<br />Some of Noonan's intervening essays on Reagan (meeting him with her now-adolescent son) which previously appeared in the Wall Street Journal are also here, more seasoned, better developed, or twice kreusened, let's say.<br />Her description of the Reagan ranch is better than Edmund Morris's, and goes into way more detail than the PBS 2-tape set on Reagan.  The incisive look at Nancy reminds me of the Vanity Fair piece written by another author several years ago, but also goes way beyond it.  There are the same close knit businessmen and real estate developers whose wives became the core of Reagan's social universe, but again, Noonan plays it forward to today, unlike the Vanity Fair analysis which stopped on the tailgates of the station wagons as this group happily picnicked together in California in the 50's.<br />Reagan's pivotal speeches early on in his first term are interspersed, especially in the Russia chapter, in a way that does them more justice than the alarmed truncated versions we got from the liberal hand-wringing reportorial establishment at the time.<br />This book finds its place naturally in the top shelf of anyone's library of Reagan literature, but I have to give it only 4 stars because nowhere do we hear of how David Stockman cycled in and out of the Reagan Revolution, and somehow I find that omission material.  Stockman exemplified many of us who were dedicated to Reagan's goals in the early 1980s, and as a result of the carnage Stockman either encountered or caused, I find it hard to say that Reagan was wholly successful in achieving his goals.  It is much easier to stand back and still be warmed by the sunset of Reagan's character, and even be illuminated by it.  The details at the time were much more messy and disorganized.  But maybe Peggy says enough of that.  I just wish she had worked the Stockman relationship to tease out another layer of Reagan.	2002-05-12
US	52813241	R2PGKC1LXQKD03	0071391150	307034529	Character Counts : The Creation and Building of the Vanguard Group	Books	1	6	12	N	N	Character Counts, and here are copies of my speeches	Bogle being an icon, I thought this would be a good book to pick up.  The autobiographical elements are not extensive, as we pick up the story with Mr. Bogle's undergrad Princeton thesis on how an investment company should ideally be run.  This starts the structural framework in which Bogle's character would be given expression.  People of high character might also be found running mutual funds with higher fee structures, which are raked off for the funds owners, but that would not be as good for the investing public.  Bogle backs this up with the math from the inception of his company--really the company owned by the investors, so let's say the inception of his &quot;crew&quot;--showing that administrative costs came down over time, as assets grew.<br />This is not high writing, but is essentially a group of speeches to the crew over the years, in the nature of tribal storytelling, or annual reports.  Over the years, Bogle ends each speech with a spiritiual reference, and after his heart transplant, these get more explicitly Biblical.<br />Although this book stands on its own feet, what I miss about it is the critical element that probably must await an outside biographer, much as Robert Sobel was able to bring alive the investment bankers of Dillon Read in a way we would not have obtained from reading corporate reports written by the leading owner at any given period of time.  So this book is a step along that path, or a good faith offering of perspective by the guy who was and is right in the middle of it.	2002-05-12
US	52813241	R2BCGBJJ2V60GH	0812036034	764423438	The Tempest (Shakespeare Made Easy)	Books	2	0	22	N	N	Not Easy to Figure out	Shakespeare's play, The Tempest, is thought to be the most complex of his plays.  The Island can be seen as a microcosm of life, and how Miranda comes alive after being captive to her father's tormented imprisonment of his own making.	2002-05-11
US	52813241	R31EEXB7ROIHNM	0553272535	88900905	Night	Books	4	7	15	N	N	Wrestling with God	Elie Wiesel was a twelve-year old Jew who was completely devoted to learning all he could about his religion. In Night Elies faith is shaken when he sees his people  suffering, so he has to reevaluate God in his life.<br /><br />The God of Elie Wiesels Jewish belief is the same God addressed by David in Psalm 22.  Feeling like God may not hear, or may not exist, even, is nothing new.  It is certainly not a novel idea uniquely occurring to Mr. Wiesel as a fifteen-year old prisoner.  David wrote:<br />My God, my God!  Why have you forsaken me?<br />Why do you remain distant?<br />Why do you ignore my cries for help?<br />Every day I call to you, my God,<br />but you do not answer.<br />Every night you hear my voice, but I find no relief.<br />(Psalm 22:1-2, New Living Translation)<br />Elie is actually echoing his faith tradition, by honestly seeking God, and giving voice to his doubts that God hears.  So it is easy to see his record of doubt as recorded in Night as a snapshot of what he is going through, not a systematic refutation of the existence of God. But that is exactly how it strikes him at the time.<br />Elie says his God is murdered.  He refers to the hanging of the angel boy as symbolizing this.  Yet the angel boy was killed by people, just as the first murder victim, Abel, was killed by Cain.  A more appropriate reference might be the killing of Jesus, since Christians (and some Jews, at the time) believe Jesus shared Gods nature.  The implications of actually killing God, then, do not necessarily imply the end of God.  In Elies view towards life, however, there is no resurrected God.  He quotes the rabbi (Page 73): Its the end.  God is no longer with us.  Wiesel then (two paragraphs later) refers to Calvary (his only Christ reference): Poor Akiba Drumer, if he could have gone on believing in God, if he could have seen a proof of God in this Calvary  Yet, this is Elie quoting others.  Does he himself say God is no more, if God ever was?  Elie may feel that his belief is drained from him, like his tears, (Page 106) which do not flow after his own father finally dies, but Elie, as a fifteen-year old, is not ready to really personally say that he believes God is dead.  Yet he dwells in the same turmoil documented by David in the Psalms.  He comes close to renouncing God (on pages 64 and 65), but looking at it closely, he deflects a categorical rejection of God.  He simply rejects the idea of the new Jewish year of Rosh Hoshana possibly being happy.  He also feels a void on the day of atonement (Yom Kippur) he chooses not to celebrate, as he feels a great void in his heart (Page 66).<br />Elie says he feels like Job.  Yet Job believed God existed.  The book of Job records Jobs conversations with God.  Elies reference to Job is just a partial thought:  How I sympathized with Job!  I did not deny Gods existence, but I doubted His absolute justice.  In fact, Elie prays to the God he says exists: I thanked God, in an improvised prayer, for having created mud in His infinite and wonderful universe.(Page 35).  This same universe confronted Job, who is told by God: Who is this that questions my wisdom with such ignorant words?  Brace yourself, because I have some questions for you, and you must answer them.  Where were you when I laid the foundations of the earth?  Tell me, if you know so much.  (Job 38:2-4).  Elie does not take the full measure of Job, when he refers to him.  But this is understandable under the duress of concentration camp.  Indeed, the first thirty-seven chapters of Job are filled with the exact same kinds of complaint against God.r was?  Elie may feel that his belief is drained from him, like his tears, (Page 106) which do not flow after his own father finally dies, but Elie, as a fifteen-year old, is not ready to really personally say that he believes God is dead.  Yet he dwells in the same turmoil documented by David in the Psalms.  He comes close to renouncing God (on pages 64 and 65), but looking at it closely, he deflects a categorical rejection of God.  He simply rejects the idea of the new Jewish year of Rosh Hoshana possibly being happy.  He also feels a void on the day of atonement (Yom Kippur) he chooses not to celebrate, as he feels a great void in his heart (Page 66).<br />Elie says he feels like Job.  Yet Job believed God existed.  The book of Job records Jobs conversations with God.  Elies reference to Job is just a partial thought:  How I sympathized with Job!  I did not deny Gods existence, but I doubted His absolute justice.  In fact, Elie prays to the God he says exists: I thanked God, in an improvised prayer, for having created mud in His infinite and wonderful universe.(Page 35).  This same universe confronted Job, who is told by God: Who is this that questions my wisdom with such ignorant words?  Brace yourself, because I have some questions for you, and you must answer them.  Where were you when I laid the foundations of the earth?  Tell me, if you know so much.  (Job 38:2-4).  Elie does not take the full measure of Job, when he refers to him.  But this is understandable under the duress of concentration camp.  Indeed, the first thirty-seven chapters of Job are filled with the exact same kinds of complaint against God.	2002-05-11
US	52813241	R3MPJL5JCZ0Y94	1576832880	344864152	The Creator and the Cosmos: How the Latest Scientific Discoveries of the Century Reveal God	Books	5	27	33	N	Y	Follow the Numbers	The Heisenberg theorists and militant evolutionists among us always seem to revel in huge probabilities, vast time periods, and unknowable quantums of hard equations.  Ross ties much of this up in a way that terminates the numbers, puts limits on the time periods, and confines the quants.  His big point is that the onward-rushing universe means that it was not always here; and that it has only been here for so long.  Using facts discerned by the Hubble telescope and various writers in journals you and I would never be able to read, if we read them all day, Ross ties together the strings of probability for the existence of our planet, our biospere, and us.  Then he comments on the other side of this probability, regarding the reasonableness of God existing right alongside us, as well as prior to the start of the universe.  What will be controversial about this is how he puts limits on the confident assertions of the Darwinists, who want to use Darwin for too much.  They protest, and he quotes them as they do, that he and others like him must not hold them accountable to the outer limits of their time periods, nor to the chemical limits of biology.<br />The style of reasoning Ross uses here is classical, or even Medieval--stating the proposition, listing the objections to it, and responding to each objection.  Aquinas would say &quot;On the contrary...&quot;  But Aquinas didn't have the science and math. In short, Ross reasons like your better professors always urged you to, especially when you felt like letting loose with a slur or attack on something you just didn't like.  Ross takes a higher road, and justifies his decision to accept the universe and how it all adds up, as evidence for an intelligent designer.  He also makes the point that human beings are more chemically complex than the universe.  Some people just can't stand it that we might be the crown of creation after all.  They may prefer to muck around in pre-biotic pools of argument.  But it will take more than that to deal with the information Ross has assembled here.  This is a very impressive book.	2002-05-02
US	52813241	R3R7HQETV0EKX8	0385495404	556829614	The First American: The Life and Times of Benjamin Franklin	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Poor Richard Writ Large	Brands did a great job on his Teddy Roosevelt biography, so I picked this up with great expectations, but also with a sense of reservation--wondering if he could crack in anything like the way  he did T.R.  Franklin being more remote historically, and most other Franklin bios being kind of childish, or over-glossified.  Brands does not disappoint.  Probably because Franklin does not.  Only occasionally does Brands over-indulge in his writing (example: he is painting a word image of Boston Harbor, and how young Ben would see ships being launched out of drydock, and he acutally uses the word \\"frisson\\" to describe the water foaming away as the keel rolls down into the waves...).  But mainly Franklin carries the story.<br />Brands makes a convincing argument that other than George Washington, Franklin was the most important man in our revolution.  He's probably right.  He was certainly the most colorful.  Brands includes at the end a letter from George Washington paying respects to the dying Franklin, to draw the parallel explicitly.<br />We also get a look at the tortured relationship between Franklin and his son, who stayed loyal to England, and a sense of how Franklin fought to craft his public personality at the same time he was accurately feeling the stings of some very shabby treatment from all kinds of people.  The habit he develops of being as elliptical, complementary, and non-judgemntal as possible probably also accounts for his success at selling papers and almanacs.<br />The humiliation of Franklin by the attorne for the House of Lords in London, as Franklin attempted to discuss problems with the way the Pitts were administering proprietary Pennsylvania is described in riveting detail, and Brands has me convinced that this was a turning point for Franklin, converting him into no longer a Briton, but an American.<br />Brands also explores Franklin's marriage, and the center of gravity it gave him, even if he orbited it distantly for long periods of time.<br />There's a lot here, including the actual gravestone Franklin ended up with, the fact that the Philadelphia convention rejected opening with prayers, and a nice tie in with David McCullough's rendition of Adams and Franklin sharing a bed above a tavern, discussing the relative merits of keeping the window open or closing it, as they lay sharing a blanket.<br />This book ends up being absorbed, as well as read.	2002-05-02
US	52813241	R3CXDITIHH0NG2	0060916125	581879090	The True Believer	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Evil, Be Thou My Good	Hoffer looks for and finds common themes operating in the minds of various &quot;True Believers&quot; all of whom seem at root, according to Hoffer, to be hating others, even as they hate themselves.  Perhaps mainly because they hate themselves, or their families, societies, or blown opportunities.  By embracing and extending this hatred, they become tools in the hands of the party organizers (Hitler) or religious fanatics--who assure them it's actually good to be bad.  This is why I pick the Paradise Lost reference as the title to this review.<br />The Wall Street Journal carried a review of this by a guy who read it in the 60's, and who saw in it (he now sees) a way to get a handle on developments in the newly lethal world of Islamo-terrorism.  <br />Some of the most interesting things in here are the quotes from Hitler and some of his key organizers, on the role assigned to the scapegoats (the Jews).  Hoffer interacts with this at the root idea level, which gets beyond the madman-evil characterization of Hitler, and explains his appeal to a demoralized, self-hating Germany.  If Germans can fall into this, it's no surprise that technically and educationally less developed societies can, as well.  The snake's message in the Garden is, after all, universal.<br />But Hoffer isn't really anti-snake in a religious sense, since he seems to cast his net to trap early Christianity along with Nazi-ism, which makes this book provocative 50 years since it was written.	2001-11-05
US	52813241	R1ERPGJ3NKCXDZ	0140143459	488185202	Liar's Poker: Rising Through the Wreckage on Wall Street	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Outstanding Synthesis of Economic Theory  and Practice	Somehow Michael Lewis went from Art History major at Princeton to investment banker with Salomon Brothers.  In this book he shows that he understood what these markets are all about, in a way that eludes the grasp of people who may spend years majoring in finance, going to law school or business school and slaving away in these same markets without a clue as to how the whole thing hangs together.<br />Using bond trading theory to trade whole companies and industries, as Lewis explains Michael Milken, is especially helpful, and it suggests that Warren Buffett is doing the same thing--buying companies by acting as a &quot;preferred&quot; lender.<br />The &quot;us v. them&quot; relationship between an investment bank and its customers was interesting, and in our current market times, I see a lot of this in how financial planners do the same kind of petty ripoffs that Lewis describes using bigger dollars and bigger customers.  It's possible that today's minor aspiring financial planner types could read this book and aspire to be an even bigger malefactor of great wealth.  It's refreshing that Lewis bailed out of the business, and this book stands the test of time as a continuing accurate diagnosis of the problems with sinners running markets.  The trouble is , there will never be anyone else to run them.<br />At the end of the book, he seems to have a weakness for praising John Meriwether.  Isn't that the guy who lost a huge sum of money in the recent &quot;Long Term Capital&quot; hedging disaster?  Even that proves the point of this book, which is that none of these guys care at all about anything but the dollars to be made in front of their nose at the moment.  Exactly as Adam Smith said.	2001-10-20
US	52813241	R3HWTN0WKPH86H	0310219272	287960862	Rediscovering Church	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Moto Subtheme	One of his correspnding strengths, which can be seen in this book (co-authored  by his wife, which apparently keeps him down to Earth), is to reveal an occasional weakness,or failure.<br />The failure he reveals in this book relates to his experience with motocross, which he used to do on the Willow Creek church property in Barrington, Illinois.  He says in one part of the book that he once came down off a jump and had to be hospitalized due to bruising some internal organs.<br />We don't know if the bike was a real motocrosser, or what kind of equipment he may have been wearing.  But it's a refreshing story which contrasts with the gleaming, hyper-expensive sport of Great Lakes sailboat racing with his irascible crew who must obey a code of silence during competition.<br />The book also chronicles the building of Willow Creek church.  But since Willow Creek can be interpreted as an extension of a successful youth group, pay attention to the young guy crashing his dirt bike coming off a jump.  There could be a little of us all in that.	2001-10-16
US	52813241	R3C0UYT76YL0ZB	0786866756	399574634	A History of Britain: At the Edge of the World? 3500 B.C. - 1603 A.D.	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Schama's a Great Tour Guide	This is a review of the 3-set videoization of this book.  Schama has pulled off something very difficult, as he synthesizes history and art, with probably more emphasis on history.<br />Churchill tried this in his multi-volume &quot;History of the English Speaking Peoples&quot; and also in the repackaging of that into Churchill's &quot;The Island Race.&quot;  But Schama does it better in person.  Notice, however, that the Bayeux tapestry scenes, and the shots of battle helmets, are also all there in &quot;The Island Race.&quot;<br />What is epecially good in these videos is Schama stalking down beaches, or across famous battlefields, with the camera moving, too.  Elements of &quot;Blair Witch&quot; here.  Also Led Zeppelin (which could be to say Tolkein) album-cover elements in the recurrent images of stone monoliths and pillars of flame, which break up chapters and eras in this history (but which also serve to tie it together).<br />If Schama could do the same to bring to life his &quot;Embarrassment of Riches,&quot; I'd buy it.<br />I made my 9 year old daughter watch these over a few nights in lieu of cartoons on cable.  She did stay with them, but reverted immediately to &quot;Invader Zim&quot; when given the chance.  So, yawn, these are a little bit geared to mature audiences, or at least those who, like me, really do want to know if the arrow hit Harold in the eye at the Battle of Hastings, or perhaps in the head.  The brutality of English history comes out clearly here, perhaps impugning the claim that English history has been some sort of island of stability.  Maybe compared to the contemporary alternatives.	2001-10-09
US	52813241	R201J6CU94XLRR	0156011247	763449972	Spytime: The Undoing of James Jesus Angleton	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Cold War Fractals	If counter intelligence requires the ability to connect disparate, sometimes non-obvious scraps of information, and to relate them to what has gone before in history, all to nourish some important insight, then the same qualities are called upon to make sense of the pieces of this book, which gets me to my fractal characterization.<BR>Angleton, the guy who ends up staying too long at the spy party--so to speak--seems to be another incarnation of the &quot;Rufus&quot; character from prior Buckley spy books.<BR>John Kennedy is portrayed as guessing about the percentage of U.S. nuclear throw-weight concentrated in Turkey, which is a nice touch.<BR>Crespi seems like a character who should have been killed, perhaps along with the Russian woman counterspy. Perhaps Angleton could also have been done away with, the earlier the better, to spare us his diary recounting of his sexual encounters. Earth-to-Buckley: stop writing sex scenes. Get a co-author for that if you must, but please stop, you make yourself look silly for no purpose.<BR>3 stars are awarded to this fractal jumble because it does move right along, and for the Lebanon scenes.	2001-09-25
US	52813241	RKQKZL5OD06FZ	0156011247	763449972	Spytime: The Undoing of James Jesus Angleton	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Cold War Fractals	If counter intelligence requires the ability to connect disparate, sometimes non-obvious scraps of information, and to relate them to what has gone before in history, all to nourish some important insight, then the same qualities are called upon to make sense of the pieces of this book, which gets me to my fractal characterization.<br />Angleton, the guy who ends up staying too long at the spy party--so to speak--seems to be another incarnation of the \\"Rufus\\" character from prior Buckley spy books.<br />John Kennedy is portrayed as guessing about the percentage of U.S. nuclear throw-weight concentrated in Turkey, which is a nice touch.<br />Crespi seems like a character who should have been killed, perhaps along with the Russian woman counterspy. Perhaps Angleton could also have been done away with, the earlier the better, to spare us his diary recounting of his sexual encounters. ...	2001-09-25
US	52813241	RYLGBP9K90U8B	0895264196	903863589	Science, Politics and Gnosticism: Two Essays (None)	Books	5	24	27	N	N	Political Science on a Rack	Oh, the visionary has a new system to save the world? Put that in section II B, tray 5, right next to the same idea that sprouted 1000 years ago under a different name.<BR>Voegelin has boiled down the rules for understanding all secular visions of salvation, which invariably play on some human dissatisfaction, the diagnosis of which always omits a key &quot;given&quot; of human nature, which is thus marketed as changeable, but isn't, leading to fanatical attempts to control people, devolving into scaring them into submission with the threat of death.<BR>The opposite of the Christian love ethic which posits a brotherhood in relation to a heavenly Father, according to Voegelin.<BR>Voegelin here achieves a scientific method of explaining how non-christian ideas relate to Christian ideas of social organization. He was very popular in Cold War times, but is also versatile enough here to help with the great conversation we are all having in relation to terrorism. This book is simple, direct and profound.	2001-09-17
US	52813241	R157S2UDNCUR3R	0618002219	669379389	The Hobbit: or There and Back Again	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Reverse Beowulf	This is modeled on Beowulf, but yet anti-Beowulf, in that the fierce dragon is stalked not by the toughest guy around who prefers fighting hand-to-hand, but by a rag tag collection of dwarves blundering around the countryside, at times the opposite of intentionality.<br />The lair, the hoard, the smoke--but games of wit and tricks of evasion, culminating in some other guy shooting down the dragon based on inside information mediated by a bird.<br />Another opposite trend of this is the way the characters strengthen and develop, whereas in Beowulf, the hero ages and deteriorates.  These dwarves, by contrast, are already old, but become more adventuresome, and more bold.<br />The skeleton of the story, though, is still Beowulf.  But much improved by the inversions.  Another refreshing twist on the old story is the way both Gandalf and Baggins both hold their accomplishments lightly, Baggins preferring to go home to his pouch of tobacco and his pantry, and Galdalf vanishing somewhere undefined after closing off a conversation with Bilbo on the terminal point of how individuals acting on their own, yet have a part in fulfulling someone else's prophecy.<br />All the while as I was reading through this, for the first time since grade school, I was reminded of what I guess I'll call &quot;Middle Led Zeppelin&quot; and the Song Remains the Same scenes with Robert Plant dramatizing the songs of quest and discovery, many words of which seem lifted from the same old English sounds reflected in Tolkein's work, particularly this text.<br />So if Tolkein is updating Beowulf, were Robert Plant and Jimmy Page revising the Hobbit, or at least struggling to interpret it?  Dwarves on a far cliff with dueling stratocasters?  Elves down below churning and hopping around in curious pagan synchronicity?  I'm thinking sure, why not?	2001-09-06
US	52813241	RT1VRPY8MEE69	0345298063	451774652	Peter the Great: His Life and World	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Honorary Dutchman	Massie explores this very complex character in the historical context of a rural, backward Russia lacking any Navy, and imprisoned in a feudal system centered on Moscow. How did things move to St. Petersburg? Where did the Navy originate? What happened to the Boyars's beards? What happened was Peter. First he grew up playing army with his friends, many of whom he later put in charge of the real army. Then he sojourned to the Netherlands to learn the art of shipbuilding, and to improve his drinking and lampooning skills. Then home to massacre his enemies, put his sister in prison, and murder his own son. In addition to building a new capital to shut out the influence of the old court at Moscow. Not nescessarily in that order. And they say the communists were tough. Peter's Summer palace still stands (or still is rebuilt from what the Germans did to it), and sports a Delft-blue tiled fireplace, with a Delft-blue image of Bacchus, the god of drunkenness on the mantle of it. Back in the heroic age of Russian history, when one guy could do all this, it's sobering to see his architectural remains, there and in Moscow. Then at the Winter palace, we still see the extensive Dutch art collection first amassed by Peter. Massie brings all of this to life, and not only for Western readers. On a trip to Moscow in 1981, I met a gigantic young man in a bar. &quot;You're about as tall as Peter the Great&quot; I said. &quot;No&quot; he replied in heavily accented English, &quot;Peter was two centimeters taller.&quot; This was oddly refreshing to hear, back in those sclerosed-Boshevik days, and it would have been impossible to grasp any of it without this book. It might be even more appropriate now, since Leningrad is gone and St. Petersburg is back. And the last Czar is now reburied in the church in the Citadel, just outside of town, next to the Royal Mint founded by Peter.	2001-08-28
US	52813241	R37RFH0M0JVKH9	1579470858	394831849	Guides to the Evaluation of Permanent Impairment, Fifth Edition	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Nice Charts	Although my copy came with 10 pages of errata sheets stuck in the front of it (presumably cured in the 5th version), I still got a lot out of reading through this book. The descriptions of impairment are de regeur reading for coming up with convincing settlement demands for soft tissue injuries. Someone's shoulder hurts? How do you say they have lost 20% of their upper body use as a result? Why not 90% of one finger, 50% of one hand, and 80% of one arm? Multiple impairments like these can be descriptively segmented to more fully elaborate what a patient is feeling, and how they are limited in daily activities. Both the plaintiff bar and the insurance community are well-served by this book. As for the medical accuracy of it, I'll take the AMA's word for it.	2001-08-28
US	52813241	R2CDYF9S1FGQHJ	0674948416	416951067	We the People, Volume 1: Foundations (We the People (Harvard))	Books	1	5	50	N	N	Something's Missing	Something's missing from this book. Maybe it's that Ackerman is not as incandescently deceptive ....  No, Ackerman is not so fine a worker with the constitution. It's more like he's rummaging around in the cupboard, making a lot of noise about historical debates here and there, and big supreme court decisions that do or don't bear out some preferred value. By the middle of the book, you cease to care, and just wish he'd stop making noise. .... In summary, this is an example of what the Crits refer to as a \\"hard book\\" ....	2001-08-28
US	52813241	R2XNBR3L8XFWXS	0882776010	754446704	American Constitutional Law (University Textbook Series)	Books	1	18	68	N	N	Reductio Tribe Absurdum	Now that it is clear that Professor Tribe will never sit on the United States Supreme court, I can review this book the way we can now evaluate the Cold War--free from the threat of being dominated by it. So what was it that made me read this huge book back in its 1982 version? To see if I agreed or disagreed? Not really. It was more to see what my professors were talking about, as they reverently referred to &quot;Larry&quot; Tribe, and as they assigned various law review articles authored by Tribe to make certain points. In which I began to see a pattern. For instance, Tribe wrote that congressional action to limit Article III jurisdiction of U.S. federal courts would be a &quot;sword of Damocles&quot; hanging over the heads of victims of discrimination--and therefore not permissible as a political response to judicial activism. Because a little jurisdictional trim here, logically if played out to the nth degree, would mean a wholesale chain-sawing of earlier decisions relying on the previously un-trimmed scope of jursidiction. But that's not legal reasoning. It's more the &quot;chicken little&quot; school of politics, where each incremental gain is defended by invoking catastrophe if it is undone. Yet each gain was previously welcomed, so how could two steps of gain in the past now be illegal to go back to, by reversing the last decision at the margin of legal argument? That's the basic alarmist dishonesty of this type of mock-inexorablness. And that's what most of this treatise comes to. That, coupled with an equivalence game-theory argument of action-inaction, whereby the government (&quot;state action&quot;) is responsible not only for what it affirmatively does, but also for what it elects not to do, but arguably could have. We don't spend 100% of our GNP on a government program to pay for Mr. X's medical treatment? Well, then the state is really responsible for the effect of not paying for it. So Tribe has us coming and going. Do what he says, or pay the ever-upwardly ratcheting constitutional price. Which turns out to be infinite. Just like the founders intended, or maybe didn't intend. No sweat, it's all infintely provable with this kind of &quot;reasoning.&quot; So everyone is entitled to anything a court can be talked into giving, unless you're not born yet, or unless you are trying to save up some money that the all-knowing government prefers to tax away, so that you, the inarticulate but hard-working schmuck with the metal stamping factory, can be subordinated to the screaming artists who need public funding (free of &quot;censorship&quot;) so they can make artwork no one will pay a market price for. Now, if this were so legal, wouldn't it still hold true even in an undeveloped economy, say 13 colonies along a primitive shoreline? Or does it just &quot;evolve&quot; in synchronicity with the productive capacity of the minority group of wealth producers who are needed to pay for it? The positive part of Tribe is that he forces you to think by striking dismay in your heart as you read what he has planned for you, if you don't. That, and his tome makes a good door-stopper, for the years of simple practice which follow law school. So my professors were wrong, but they were right.	2001-08-28
US	52813241	R2D7J81LOZGQTT	1564583031	786000172	Ultimate Motorcycle Book	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Deeply Cool	This book has great photos, no dark areas or confining borders to the photos, and intelligent text that always complements the main features--the motorcycle photos. Though mainly an exposition of the many types of motocycles in the world, this is also a history book touching on vintage bikes, famous racers, and facts about changing technology that have made certain bikes pathbreaking achievements of engineering. There is only a two-page section on motocross, the same volume of pages allocated to scooters. No elaboration into the sub-phyla--or sub-classes--of arena cross or supercross. But that's not a big deal, because what you have here is well worth it on its own. Wilson includes a great layout of &quot;Electrics and instruments&quot; which is reminiscent of Gray's Anatomy, in that it looks like a dissection scene from biology class. He lays out the electrical system of a motorcycle (street bike), looking like nerves branching out of a spinal cord. This is an innovative way to present this, with the amber, red, and white light covers and the battery cell covers still on. Only someone obsessed with this subject matter could have done this, which has the benefit of rubbing off on less-devoted adherents of the sport and the products who still need to be motivated by reading this book. And by simply studying it. Way more than words here. This is the lifetime achievement superstar reception room table favorite book in our law firm. Amazingly, no client has stolen it yet.	2001-08-25
US	52813241	RW3GVXTGR3MER	0671747428	313206736	Turks and Brahmins: Upheaval at Milbank, Tweed Wall Street's Gentlemen Take Off Their Gloves	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Law firm Life as Struggle	This is a pretty good book.  Fifty some years after John McCloy slapped his name on this firm, at a time when law firm compensation was more regimented and egalitarian among all equity partners, being compensated as a lawyer resembled getting tenure at a university--no one cared if you sat around dozing all day, because those still awake looked forward to sleeping all day eventually, but still getting paid just as much as some young lawyer pounding down 2000+ billable hours  per year.<br />This changed among New York law firms, but Millbank, Tweed was slower than most to move to a multi-track partner system, or to key compensation to the revenue a given lawyer generated.  At the core of this unwillingness to change was the mindset of the senior, contolling partners: it was the firm, and not any given lawyer, that got the business.  During the time period covered by this book, several key younger partners begged to differ, and most of this book describes how these young &quot;turks&quot; influenced the older &quot;Brahmins&quot; to adapt the legal structure of the firm to the underlying economic structure.  Use ot &quot;Turks&quot; also suggest an element of destruction, which is also a fair reading of how these younger lawyers were perceived by the older partners.<br />One younger turk in particular, by the name of Worenklein, is profiled, since he controlled millions of dollars in business as a result of learning the legal end of nuclear power plant financing.  An interesting epilogue to his particular story is that Worenklein later left the firm he helped modernize, and last I heard, he was an investment banker, working on the same deals but making even more money off of them.<br />So should the old guys have stood fast and let Worenklein leave earlier?  Or do you not hold the superachievers inside a law firm anyway?  This book tackles questions like these in an evenhanded manner.  Especially for law students who might be inclined to uncritically yearn to work in one of these bigger firms, this book casts accurate light on what goes on at the ruling levels, where compensation and quality of life decisions are made, uaually way beyond the purview of the younger lawyers.one of these bigger firms, this book casts accurate light on what goes on at the ruling levels, where compensation and quality of life decisions are made, uaually way beyond the purview of the younger lawyers.	2001-08-21
US	52813241	R1TZVCMJ4QMNEE	0879387505	183814841	The American Fire Engine (History)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Beautiful, Elemental	This is an extraordinary book.  A great mix of photos and text, which includes not only bios of some of the famous truck lines, but information on technological progressions in fire fighting, and how this impacted the work of the individual fire fighter.  Unless it's an action shot of an actual fire, with smoke and flames, each photo is taken on a beautiful, sunny day, on which each truck is also immaculate.  This is a lot like each of our categorical memories of these trucks from earliest youth.  There's just some kind of intense coolness factor that surrounds fire trucks, even as they became boxier and more industrial looking, especially after governmental rules were changed to require all personnel to ride inside, no longer allowed to  cling to the back or ride on the running boards.<br />For years I kept this book in the lobby of our firm, and everyone loved it.  Especially the fire dept. inspectors making their rounds to see if our fire extinguishers were at the proper height on the walls, and our &quot;Exit&quot; signs illuminated.  Seeing them fixated on this book suggested that they'd rather be riding in the wind, with one of those emblematic Dalmations, then writing me up for having too many extension cords snaking back to a single outlet.<br />So why only 4 stars?  Because the author missed including any W.S. Darley fire trucks, made right here in Illinois without interruption for almost 100 years.  Add a Darley, and I give it 5 stars.	2001-08-17
US	52813241	R10NF6DDGYAP4Z	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	5	12	13	N	N	This is what the telephone killed	Before the phone, people used to write more letters.  This book seems to have written itself, in large part, due to all of the letters of John Adams and Abigail Adams, and also their numerous family, professional and business contacts.<br />McCullough does an incredible job of pacing his description to Adams's life cycle, bringing Adams to life scene by scene, year by year.  He lets Adams develop before our eyes in a very genuine way, so well done that it is Adams himself who confronts his own limitations and flaws, mostly by admitting and exploring them in his correspondence.<br />The scope of Adams's work is brought out here:  Farmer's son, schoolteacher, lawyer, local road commissioner, delegate to numerous revolutionary conclaves, signer of the declaration of independence, author of the Massachusetts constitution, first U.S. ambassador to the Netherlands, first U.S. ambassador to Great Britain, personally acquainted with George III and with Louis XVI, Washinton's Vice President, President.  And father of an alcoholic no-good son, and of a daughter felled by breast cancer.  First occupant of the White House.  First President sworn in as a successor to another one.  Lots of firsts here.<br />Adams's critiques of so many other founders are also excerpted deftly, and just when I thought it was permissible to be outraged at Jefferson, it turns out Adams won't let me, since he himself insisted on and was nourished by the friendship of Jefferson, although punctuated by two decades of estrangement.<br />Alexander Hamilton takes a big hit in this book, and Hamilton's opposition to not only Burr and Jefferson, but also to Adams, is laid out convincingly by McCullough.<br />Authors like McCullough are rare.  I'm looking forward to whatever he decides to write next.	2001-08-15
US	52813241	R1Q1XDKSUUPM2L	1565114183	295818442	The Endurance	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Uses of Adversity	The condensation of this into four (4) cassette tapes got me from just East of Montreal all the way through to Port Huron, Michigan, on a very hot day.  By the end of tape 4, I was looking out of my air conditioned pickup truck, amazed to see people in short sleeves walking around.  Where were their tattered clothes and frostbitten, hunched-up hands?  That's what this book does--brings you into the frozen antarctic to virtually experience the adversity of the failed attempt to even get started on the land-trek across antarctica by Shackelton and his group.<br />The liberal readings from diaries, and the different narrative voices and accents give these tapes a certain texture which makes it easier to listen to what could come off as monotony.<br />In this form, then, emerges the story of the phases of this disaster, which is transformed by disciplined men into successive triumphs: first, in keeping the locked-in ship together as long as they did; next, in camping on the ice and then boating to elephant island; next, with six guys sailing an open-bow 22 foot wooden boat over 800 miles to South Georgia island to get help; next, three guys sailing another 150 or so miles to reach a whaling settlement; next, missing the approach and having to trek 22 miles across barren icy uncharted terrain for 36 straight hours thru blasting cold wearing 18-month old clothes and malnourished from almost no carbohydrates during the entire ordeal.<br />All these phases were led by Shackelton, who seems to have slept the least, but thought the most clearly, or at least the most motivationally.  The author includes contextualization of this heroic age and its collision with the despondency brought on by the First World War, and also includes a post-mortem on how each team member fared after the rescue of all hands (with only one non-major amputation for gangrenous frostbite), and how each member died.  It seems that this adversity epic was the most meaningful thing many of these men everdid.<br />Further on the theme of an Ode to Discipline, is the inclusion of how Shackelton withheld recommendation of certain team members from receiving medals of commendation from the British government, due to Moses-like seemingly minor infractions in the polar desert, which Shackelton nonetheless remembered, and which he felt threatened cataclysm to the welfare of the group unless sternly dealt with on-site, and after-the-fact as well.<br />The author here also contrasts Shackelton with Robert Scott, with whose earlier expedition (the penultimate Scott expedition beforee the one in which Scott froze), showing Shackelton in a comparatively positive light.<br />There are parallels between long drives in the car and long treks through the polar regions.  Both must be done while wide awake, but only one version of these ordeals stretches one to the extreme limits of endurance.  One residual effect of listening to this book is to cast the modern travails of office work in a new light.  Trouble with staff or with opposing counsel?  No big deal.  Not as tough as skinning penguins and chipping 15 inches of ice buildup off your boat as it sinks from the extra weight in a winter hurricane.	2001-08-02
US	52813241	RALWX7LQ3IOGH	0670886106	415039519	Saint Augustine: A Penguin Life (Penguin Lives)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	One Thing	There's one thing here which really hit me hard, and I commend Wills for putting it forward.  He gets into the relationship between Calvin and Augustine, which B.B. Warfield also explored.  Wills says Calvin clamped down Augustine into a fixed setting of wrought doctrine, but that this effort was essentially Calvinistic--not Augustinian.<br />Augustine, by contrast, according to Wills, was more willing to see God's word and guiding hand as a process with a relationship to our understanding--where our understanding can see more as time goes on, and as we go through life.  That's about all Wills does with this, but it's a big idea, worth considering.<br />To take it further, and to borrow a theme articulated by Jarrett Stevens, could it be that a lot of Calvinists are fixated on &quot;Letters from John&quot; to the point that they miss the inspiration of those letters which Calvin got from Augustine?  Or push it furhter, and isn't it clear that Augustine was trying to be a Christ-follower, and not just a system-maker?<br />But let's not dump too much on Calvin, since he also, as he said, &quot;promptly and sincerely,&quot; sought to offer his life and his work to God--like Augustine.<br />Corollary insight:  This is a small book, but unlike &quot;The Prayer of Jabez&quot; it really does contain very big ideas.  I'm neutral on whether you need a background on Augustine to get much out of it.	2001-07-13
US	52813241	R2R53VOKQ7NMA2	9626340428	748295604	War and Peace (Abridged 4 CDs)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Fragmentation by CD Version	I am reviewing the Abridged version of this on 4 CDs, which it has taken me over two years to finally listen to.  This is because only on long drives do you dare start in on War and Peace, but on those same drives you don't want to fall asleep.  So I compromised and started to listen to the CDs on two-hour drives, which was long enough to get in one or two of these CDs.  Once you catch the pace of these CDs, it works.  There are musical, symphonic-sounding transitions between scenes and chapters, which especially help set the mood for the battlefield parts.<br />The sweep of this story, though, probably requires eight CDs.  Especially difficult to decipher in this condensation are 1) Reasons for Napolean invading Russia in the first place; 2) Why the French army fell apart and had to retreat after sacking Moscow; 3) How Prince Andrei became worthy of anything; and 4) The extent to which the crucible of war really transformed Pierre's character.<br />The good news is that this CD collection produces a breakthrough, or maybe just an easy accomplishment of saying &quot;I've read 'War and Peace'&quot;--but mainly a quick look to prepare for actually reading the whole thing.	2001-07-13
US	52813241	R1Q8WYOYQF6JP0	0140187952	441301812	The Theory of the Leisure Class (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	40	70	N	N	Great Incoherent Fun	Just read this after years of thinking I knew what it was, based on college professors years ago telling me what they thought Veblen was about.  Turns out the guy was from Wisconsin, not Sweden, and that he was a master satirist, not an economist or sociologist, and that he died in 1929 at the ripe old age of 72.  He gets a special award for using the word &quot;honorific&quot; over and over, and another commendation for making breathtakingly sweeping generalizations about human history and social development, and about contemporary (circa early 1900s) industrial relationships with ZERO (!) reference to data, and a dismissal of any need for any empirical verification of his conclusions.  The conclusions themselves loop around themselves like a biplane seriously out of control, and in the end this mainly entertains.  And in the propwash, we get new terms that have joined the English language: Conspicuous consumption, conspicuous waste, canons of respectability, and even skiing terms like &quot;traverse&quot; which could also, in our &quot;post-predatory&quot; culture, be a legal term from common law pleading.  I think Veblen was mainly having fun here, and am surprised that my professors of yore saw this as a serious critique of capitalism.  I thought they were smarter than that.	2001-07-03
US	52813241	R1LX3ANHQ9P06C	0553347594	318021715	McDonald's: Behind The Arches	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Hamburger History	This book opens with Fred Turner, the former chairman of McDonald's and former fast food french fry maker, answering his own phone.  I have thought about that image ever since reading it, when this book first came out (right after Turner retired, with one of the lakes at McDonald's corporate H.Q. named after him), and Mike Quinlan took over.  Quinlan also, like Turner,  had &quot;ketchup in his veins,&quot; having started out in a restaurant like turner.<br />The book hits the ketchup and vein image so hard, in fact, that by contrast, I worry for the company now that Jack Greenburg, trained as an attorney, is the Chairman, and now that he has made Mr. Kindler, another lawyer who was with the law departmen of General Electric, head of an operating division.  What would Ray Kroc make of this?<br />Mr. Love captures the drama of Kroc almost losing control of the company to another insider who mis-interpreted McDonald's as a real estate company that incidentally marketed hamburgers.  No, said Kroc, it's a hamburger company that just needs real estate.<br />Getting a grip on what the company is today is more possible by reading what it used to be.  Business guys are often impatient with history, and they show it by so frequently repeating it.	2001-06-19
US	52813241	R2JTLMZMIZ4SF3	0316756008	831671252	For Lust of Knowing: Memoirs of an Intelligence Officer	Books	2	3	10	N	N	Back to the Field, Archie	You pick up this book hoping, and even expecting, that something riveting will meet you inside.  But nothing does.  Just a heavy dose of reporting who Archie meets, where, and when.  This must be how intelligence reports read.<br />But it was better for Archie, as the extra contemplative son of TR, to do something cool with his life.  I guess he did play a role in the Iranian activities of the CIA having something to do with the Shah.  Which had to be more interesting than hanging around Oyster Bay reenacting scenes from his childhood.<br />It's just that this report of what he did, well, is just not that interesting to read.  I keep it on a certain shelf in a certain place in Florida.  I'll let you know if it hits me differently in the future.	2001-06-15
US	52813241	R2GQNR9LUDSJBL	0525249591	892489270	The Life and Times of Dillon Read: 2	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Almost as Good as Sobel on Coolidge	Robert Sobel wrote the best biography of Calvin Coolidge I have seen so far, which means best of five.  Even better than Coolidge's autobiography.  His contextualization of Coolidge included astute observations on the American economy, and on Wall Street in particular.  So I searched out this out of print book on an online service and began to read.  To Dillon Read.<br />This is the firm which gave us George H.W. Bush's treasury secretary, Nicholas Brady, whom Sobel also covers pretty thoroughly in this book, hinting that his undergrad grades were not so hot and that he may be dyslexic.  But great connections.<br />Clarence Dillon is the star of the book, which starts with the Dutchman Vermilye and his investment trading operation in New York.  Dillon joins after Read joins, and Dillon is the gutsy Jewish guy (although Dillon cloaks that in an effort to run with the WASP dominators of New York at the time) who engineers brash and bold, huge deals, then makes a lot more money by taking over companies (buying them by lending them money) and hiring &quot;management&quot; firms secretly owned by....Clarence Dillon.<br />The Pecora hearings are profiled, and Sobel gets into the 1933 and 1934 Securities laws and the SEC, giving us the impression that Pecora was a little extreme, and the SEC--although harshly received by the &quot;Street&quot; at the time--was a pretty good idea.<br />Sobel does not stop there, though.  He follows the Dillon Read firm past Clarence, and on to Douglas (who also became a Secretary of the Treasury, but who didn't have the same pizzazz of the old  man, who drifted off into old age in aristocratic fashion on a huge New Jersey estate).  Then on to the Bechtel and Wallenberg family connections of Dillon Read, and terminating in the mid 1980s with a glimpse of new ways-a-borning with the addition of New Court Capital and the opening of the firm to modern V.C. investment.<br />A great companion to this book is the very recent book &quot;The Last Partnerships&quot; which does the same biographical analysis of our entire economy, by profiling a whole collection of investment firms, Dillon Read included.  Sobel has less range, in comparison, but Sobel's mission is to drill into Dillon Read.  This book does not &quot;sing&quot; like Sobel's Coolidge, as I said, but forms a link in Sobel's scholarship which I'm glad to have.  Next will come a read of Sobel's history of the New York Stock Exchange, to lengthen the chain.	2001-06-15
US	52813241	R3VFGYY23OQFRS	006131045X	624706115	Establishment of the European Hegemony: 1415-1715; Trade and Exploration in the Age of the Renaissance (Harper, No. TB 1045)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Everything up For Grabs	This is a very interesting book.  Short, but interesting.  Parry goes over how various Europeans, notably the Portugese and the British, basically took control of sea-borne commerce and arduously hacked out control of enough land-based choke points to produce the situation we still see today, where it seems perfectly normal that Europe, and then the United States, controls almost everything significant in the world.<br />But this same history shows how this dominance, or hegemony, is not automatic, and won't last forever.  Histories like this help us see behind and around our current world situation, which makes us more ready to see the future, or to grab it.	2001-06-15
US	52813241	RF0U2FFNYB95A	0684830442	810767823	Management of the Absurd	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Reads Fast, Stays with you	Farson has some great insights, many of which he identifies by reference to the noted psychologist Carl Rogers.  Much of this book boils down to a realistic approach to managing people, and if you do manage people, that means managing yourself and how you come across to them.  Farson can't stand know-it-all checklists, and he also points out that work is like life--there are things we all dislike, but interspersed with things that we value highly and would not change.  People at work adapt amazingly well to bad conditions, and are much smarter than many &quot;checklist&quot; idiots give them credit for.  Farson explores paradoxes of what does and does not work in a given situation (hence, the absurd angle, when the same thing works, yet does not work).  The chapters are short.  You can read them in traffic jams.  If this book were longer, or more complex, it would not be as good.	2001-06-12
US	52813241	R3U75ASDQLCJNJ	038533396X	378058051	How I Accidentally Joined the Vast Right-Wing Conspiracy (and Found Inner Peace)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Must Reading for Liberals	Stein has an especially interesting section on the re-blackballing of Mr. Kazan, due to his &quot;naming names&quot; during the anti-communist era (before we sold missile tech to commies).  He goes a step further than, say, William F. Buckley (who has chronicled the accuracy of so many of the charges, by pulling quotes from the people on the blacklists, who later admitted they were communists after the fact).  Here, Stein locates source material used by the communists themselves, to document that the communist controllers to whom the Hollywood sympathizers reported, had their own list of books the Hollywood commies were not allowed to read (e.g., Darkness at Noon), and that they gave orders of what the Hollywood screenwriters should write.  Funny how this kind of mind-control and censorship is essentially applauded yet today by mainstream Hollywood, when they tacitly support this, by ostracizing people who tried to uncover it by &quot;naming names.&quot;  This insight alone is worth picking up this book.	2001-06-04
US	52813241	R29ZVTYCC020AO	0226320847	329308821	The Constitution of Liberty	Books	5	30	31	N	N	That'll be One Large Order of Freedom, Hold the Spending	This is a great rationalist defense of the ideas which the founders of the United States knew instinctively, or by historical experience.  All people don't accomplish the same things equally, or in the same amount of time?  No big deal.  Treating them equally before the law is more important, especially for those who don't want to be forced into an equal outcome in life.  The unique dimension to these ideas which Hayek contributes is his Misesian economic outlook, which he ties into the imperative for liberty, defined as both equality before the law, and strict limits on the reach of law.<br />I continue to marvel (when not non-marveling) how &quot;government&quot; must act through laws in order to do anything.  Each fresh new blow-dried representative or senator could benefit from a few weeks off to absorb this book, to get a better idea of what it is they are trying to build, or even to get an honest standard by which to measure their infringements on liberty and their distortions of limited government.<br />Hayek is quite willing to teach them, and us, but there is a special place in his heart for socialists, which makes him somewhat Christlike, as he welcomes the sinners of socialism into his company, while other free-market types just jeer from afar or throw stones.  Hayek says no, let's think this through.  What will happen to the price system and the market if the government's share of the economy reaches a tipping point--as he saw it do in Italy and Germany during his lifetime.  How will it affect the legislative function if administrative arms of the executive are the final authors of so many rules, particularly pricing and production-related?  This is the message he sought to articulate, in the middle of FDR's socialist experimenting.<br />Hayek held a lantern for us, like the Forbes magazine illustration in an article commemorating him about 15 years ago.  There he stands still.  In his arms he holds this book, along with The Road to Serfdom.  Read thesebefore tackling his other works.	2001-05-19
US	52813241	R1BNQY7RFU5S2M	0140186395	974134151	East of Eden (Penguin Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Can't Always Get What you Want	Steinbeck leaves no character here unscathed, if not by a current malfeasance, then at least by a tormented past.  One thing he does well by elaborating the good and evil theme from the Cain and Abel story, is to show how typically people think they need something to be happy, but then are less content than someone with far less.  But it's not that easy, because someone who looks relatively content, is actually just better at making peace with their own demons.  Sam Hamilton and the Chinese guy, for instance, seem to be coping much better than any of the newcomers from Connecticut with the way-better land, but still they suffer.<br />Pounding on the theme of a love deficit as an explanation for evil is also well done, in that Steinbeck shows that some forms of evil are outside this explanation, as well--for instance the unfathomable genesis of Kate's badness.  Dr. Dobson would say that some kids are just plain bad.<br />Timshel is a very touching way to end this, but not surprisingly, the Hebrew scholar I checked this with (who is on the board of directors of her temple), tells me there is more than one interpretation, and that it is not necessarily &quot;thou mayest.&quot;  But I have no reason not to like the interpretation discerned by the Chinaman, in consultation with the rest of his Chinese friends-cum-Hebrew scholars.<br />Roy the Model T mechanic (&quot;Jus call Me Joe&quot;) is also an appropriate character type who would fit right in to our network administrator culture of computer geniuses.<br />This book is disturbing, and so is Cain and Abel.  I doubt Cain was pleased with the result of his successful attack on Abel, which he must have thought he wanted, as well.	2001-05-16
US	52813241	R3EGYFE9NC54QL	0316235024	598692359	The Gift of Fear : Survival Signals That Protect Us from Violence	Books	5	3	9	N	N	Control that Compulsion to be Counterintuitive	We have a lot of pressure on us to be counter-intuitive.  Give the guy a break; don't judge people (or don't judge books by their covers); don't be an elitist, etc.  The author here simply points out that it doesn't matter what pure or neutral rationalizations you force through your brain, since you can still be raped, robbed or beaten, or worse, right in the middle of your upbeat thought.  His point here reminded me of the community activist on the West Side of Chicago who was killed with a pipe to the head by some punk who never knew that this woman had for over 20 years worked as a reconciliation advocate in her changing community--as he spied her walking along in a vulnerable position, and then demanded her purse.  His perspective on her was more decisive.  Should she have been more careful?  Or was she paying the price of unconditional love and acceptance toward her neighbors?   <br />This is a good message for, e.g., the high school girls who blithely suggest that they be dropped off at the store, to walk the mile home at 10:00 pm, not realizing how they will look to some criminal in that situation.  &quot;But I don't feel scared&quot; they will protest.  &quot;Hey, it doesn't matter how you feel.&quot;  <br />This book counsels that we listen to our adult intuition, and that we help our kids develop theirs.  It's a good argument for looking to things like PADS, or other organizations, to channel our concern for the poor and homeless, and to control their access to our daughters and property.  Nothing mean spirited or discriminatory about that, not when we calculate the millions of years of life that criminals deprive us of each year by their activity.	2001-05-16
US	52813241	R398XV5KHXI6T6	0135406587	803445623	Lord Is My Counsel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	It's a Gift to be Simple	This is one of those rare books by a company founder written with honesty, humor, and the deliberate intent to teach a few important lessons learned by the author.<br />Before ServiceMaster was  a debt-laden NYSE traded company managing its dividend to show ever-increasing results, even as its profits were challenged by &quot;weather&quot; (just like the old Soviet planners' perennial excuse), you had Marion Wade, baseball player and owner of a small moth proofing business that started the whole ServiceMaster empire.<br />Wade reveals the logical thought process that guided his actions as he segmented his business to include carpet cleaning in the home, and he shares the frustrations he had trying to work with other contractors.  The same opportuny he saw to get beyond moth proofing and into carpet cleaning also guided the company when Ken Hansen (whose hiring is described by Wade in this book) guided SM into the management of departmental functions for hospitals, and then any kind of physical plant or service activity--now known as &quot;outsourcing.&quot;<br />The title relates to Wade's Christian faith, which he also did his best to personally model and infuse into his company.  Can this company, so many years since Wade has passed on, keep growing and still stay true to this simple faith and the logical business principles set down here?  For a clue to the answer, check out CEO Bill Pollard's book &quot;The Soul of the Firm,&quot; and keep an eye on the company's financials.  As Wade says, if they don't live it, they don't believe it.  And as Wade's book shows in eloquent simplicity, if they don't believe it, it's no longer the company he started and inspired.	2001-05-16
US	52813241	R1NG3HX2CK8854	0735607230	366169843	E-Commerce Strategies (IT Professional)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Microsoft Gets it	This is a good complement to the Gates argument that off the shelf software is the cheapest and best way to go for small businesses, here applied to e-commerce, not surprisingly MS-centric.  Interestingly, Trepper is an outsider, not an in-house MS clone.  This is evidence that Microsoft Press is a gathering force, and certainly not an in-house ghetto of yes-men writing low quality books.<br />Compare this to Sun's last-known dramatic book on how SUN will rule the computing world, AKA &quot;Rightsizing the Enterprise.&quot;  That book is very hard to read, and also demands that the user adopt SUN's stuff, at the hardware and software level.<br />Microsoft seems to be on target here.  Very little of this is &quot;my way or the highway.&quot;	2001-05-14
US	52813241	R2NZBXFZM28Z50	1565123026	531012824	Somehow Form a Family: Stories That Are Mostly True	Books	5	4	15	N	N	TV Turn-Off Life	Are we born with Tabula Rasa minds ready to absorb whatever TV shows happen to be on?  Or do we come equipped with Jungian categoricies into which The Brady Bunch, Gomer Pyle, USMC and Hawaii Five-O naturally fit and are recognized (having been created by fellow-sufferers of the same categories)? <br />How would Faulkner have re-written the opening lines of Sound and Fury if he had lived in the age of, say, the Guiding Light?  Luster could have then watched soaps, instead of plain old golf.<br />After getting re-acclimated to the TV shows of the 60s, 70s and 80s, this book does in fact read as well as the front cover says, with a reference to how reading this is how some people seem to eat cheeseburgers:  they simply &quot;inhale&quot; them.  So he writes like a TV show, and we inhale it.  But I thought reading was a more active activity than TV gaping.  Hmmm.<br />To fit Hemingway-esque, brusque factual smatters in between TV show qoutes (&quot;Five-O, open up&quot;) is very creative, and hard/dangerous for a writer.  It's risky because it can get too cute and trite; it's hard, because even if it survives the cute/trite test, it could then get grounded out on sheer boredom issues.  It could be stupid.  But Earley makes it past these obstacles.  His TV memoirs do take wing, and carry the facts of his North Carolina childhood and foray into college and vocation.<br />Two chapters laden with TV shows lead to TV-free subsequent chapters, reflecting more grown up themes, as well as touching struggles, like wanting to be baptized at age 8, but being throttled back by a visiting pastor who thought he was too young; then when the grown ups thought he was ready at age 12, not wanting to.  <br />The final chapter's story contiues to examine Earley's married life, with a ride on the Concorde and a trip of flights around the world, where dialogues with all kinds of fellow passengers are now substituted for the earlier device of using TV shows for contextualization.  Then he ends up in Pittsburgh, of all places, happily married and powering on, past the strong memories of youth.<br />Favorite quote:  &quot;The only way that the word personal can be made more noxious is to immediately follow it with the word journey...&quot;	2001-05-12
US	52813241	RJ5GXX7G505DN	0070464162	824485164	Those Drinking Days: Myself and Other Writers	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Best Read by the Sea	I loaned this book to Jonny Mac in Boston, and he never gave it back.  This book explores the self-destruction which is so attractive to so many writers, such as Dylan Thomas in his little cottage by the sea.  Inversely, it seems to exert a pull on those who are in mid-binge phase, hoping that the self-destruction will make them better writers.  Which always sounds like someone saying that developing ulcers and colitis to be more like John Calvin, will make them a better theologian.  The author shook himself loose from this thinking, but not until it almost killed him.  If Mac gives me the book back some day, I'd like to read it again.  John, it's been what, since 1982 or so?  Are you done yet?	2001-05-11
US	52813241	RZKNG4L8NYS8I	0066621178	145947723	Pride Before the Fall: The Trials of Bill Gates and the End of the Microsoft Era	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Wow, What a Thoroughly Great Book	No superlative is adequate to describe the high quality of this incisive reporting.  How did this author ever stitch all of this story together?  Incredible sources, great insights, and to think Gates almost pulled off the monopolistic crime of the century!  Thank you U.S. government for protecting us from this abuse.  Thank you John for taking time out of your busy schedule to clue the rest of us in to how this proud giant was humbled, for his own good.	2001-05-11
US	52813241	R341HAO9P9I5D9	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	2	3	12	N	N	Lose the Broom	It's time for Harry to move up to some new technology, and prove that his power is versatile and broom-platform independent.  It's time to start flying motorcycles around.  Or snowmobiles.  The broom is only emblematic of a static view of Old English witchcraft.  I hope this author can shake Harry out of the broom paradigm, particularly since the broom is also suggestive of gender confusion on his part.  Major life conflict awaits yound Harry, and I'll have to learn all about it, since I'm stuck reading and conversing in Talmudic detail with my daughter on this seemingly inexhasutible topic.	2001-05-09
US	52813241	R354DULPMOUZL4	1579660029	261573256	On the Hills of God	Books	5	4	9	N	N	Hills of Whose God?	One way to deepen your understanding of what happened toward the end of the 30 year period during which England occupied the power vacuum left by the pullout of the Ottoman Turks (or perhaps we can call it a blast-out, in deference to English motorcyclist and honorary Bedouin Lawrence of Arabia), and as the ancient Arab peoples re-packaged into a league of new Arab states interacted with the ancient Jewish diaspora newly energized by WWII and supported by the new American world power, would be to read this book.<br />The stages of disengagement between indigenous Jews and Arabs, which precede the reverse-Exodus of the diaspora (or at least the portion of the diaspora classifying itself as Zionist), and which co-incides with the Arab expulsion from this ancient and perpetually famous territory, is documented in the lives of Fawal's fictional characters with intricate detail and with constant imagery of the surrounding geography and references to the distant and near-past history of the places.<br />I don't know enough to say if the New York Times articles and radio addresses wrapped into the story are accurate depictions.  Using them this way gives the story a realistic feel.<br />Having read some of the dramatic founding of modern Israel, and with a  working knowledge of Biblical Israel's history, this caught my attention and brought some modern light to bear on the peoples previously categorized in my mind as modern Philistines, many of whom are actually now Catholic, Orthodox Christian, and of course Muslim.  As the liberals always tell us, there is a great deal of complexity to this particular area of the world, and this novel deliberately reflects a cross section of it.	2001-05-08
US	52813241	R3TMKORR0PGCS4	0679400060	585483557	Return to Sodom and Gomorrah: Bible Stories from Archaeologists	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Save your Cheetos	In addition to very fascinating excursions to Mesopotamia, where the author sends a camera up in a kite to take photos of the scorched lines in the earth left over from what he suspects may by either Sodom or Gomorrah, and the profile of ancient Ninevah including a canal system inside the city walls, Pellegrino takes a moment to let us know that prior to the elimination of coconut oil as an ingredient, Twinkies would burn for 20 minutes, and were a great back up source of light for underground explorations.  Now, he makes do with giant Cheetos, held with a tweezers, which will burn for maybe 10 minutes.  I tried it, and it's true.	2001-05-04
US	52813241	R2LHRW5CKYE8UI	0805063889	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	4	15	32	N	N	The Upton Sinclair of Key West	Just when we were tiring of reading about Jurgus Rudkus trudging long miles to the slaughterhouses of Chicago through subzero temperatures which made his ears fall off, section by section, here comes a perkier revision of the same thesis from the warmer climes of Key West, and then across the country up to Maine, and thence to Missesota, as Ehrenreich takes watiressing, Maid Service, and Wal Mart jobs to get in touch with the working poor.  Former Wisconsin Senator William Proxmire used to do the same thing for part of each Summer, to get in touch with his contituents.  There's an argument that more people should do this.<br />Ehrenreich is a very gifted writer, especially good at the penetrating comment, for example her observation of small white crosses lining the roadside to signify &quot;particularly effective head on collisions.&quot;<br />Her pro-union sympathies come out in her bias for comparing what the employee gets with what the employer is charging to the customer.  The Maid gets $6.45/hour, but the franchise owner bills her out at $25/hr.  While making critical comments about this, Ehrenreich at the same time notes that the Maid place provides cars, job assignments, cleaning kits, and video training to each employee.  Don't forget worker's comp. and personal bonding to allow work in people's homes. Isn't there a cost to these things?  But her assignment is not to be a franchise owner for a month, so it's just not her focus.<br />Staying within her segment of the worker community, she points out that the food store wanted her to give a urine sample with her application, and that more than 80% of U.S. employers now require that.  While critical of this, again, she does not point out the destruction that can be caused to any size business by drug-dealing or drug-taking employees, especially when they steal from employers or customers of those employers to support their expensive habits, which the poor really have no way of affording for long.<br />But let's not make a business-perspecitve counterpoint for everything in this book.  It stands on its own and it sends an important message that many people who are desperately poor only appear to be making it, and use the camouflage of their jobs to hide it.  This seems to put an even heavier burden on the employers who provide those jobs, and the customers who pay for them, to treat these people fairly.  One also gets the sense that Ehrenreich herself experienced a personal wake up call as a result of this project, and that she may not in the future sit in New York restaurants nibbling expensive salads with Lewis Lapham without feeling a little more grateful for the hands that made it, or at least a little more sardonic when thinking back to the scene in this book with the chef in the fmaily restaurant whipping frozen steaks at the wall to thaw them out as quickly as possible.<br />Her suggestion that economists and welfare reformers actually meet the people who &quot;cook their hash browns and clean their rooms&quot; during their vacations is a sound one.  Now I'm looking forward to her book about spending a month with an accountant, an owner of a small HVAC installation company, and a high school principal, whose latent virtues can also be similarly mined.	2001-05-03
US	52813241	R1Z8TVFI9VEST6	0226020452	321521668	The Bridge on the Drina (Phoenix Fiction)	Books	4	4	13	N	N	It's Just a Bridge	It should be possible to appreciate this book without acknowledging that Andric completely explains or understands the complex of racial, ethnic and historical factors converging on this famous bridge in Bosnia.  Because the Ottoman Turks who built it didn't understand everything, either.  The bridge remains an object of fascination, though, since it stands as a permanent refutation of the equally intransigent conviction of the current Serb and Bosnian popular mindset which holds that the Turks were stupid and destructive.<br />The stories Andric weaves in and out of this geographic reference point are interesting, and some graphic.  None more so (to my mind) than the torture scene atop the bridge involving a wooden stake and someone being punished.  I won't wreck it for the reader by going any further.<br />20 years ago I spent part of an evening on this bridge with a Serb, who kept insisting that we play a game of trying to correlate each letter of the alphabet (the regular, non-cyrillic alphabet, thankfully) with the name of a famous river located anywhere in the Eurasian land mass.  The penalty for missing a letter was to endure a shot of &quot;shlievo.&quot;  That's not an easy game to play.  I had Andric's book with me at the time, but had not read much of it.  Why read about it if you can stand on it?	2001-05-03
US	52813241	RJHBW3XUC7KE5	0452267455	664457226	Baghdad without a Map and Other Misadventures in Arabia	Books	5	2	3	N	N	In It, Not Of It	Horowitz's great gift is the ability to experience his subject matter with gusto, and then to simplify and exaggerrate it into short chapters which mainly amuse the reader while converying something important.  My favorite chapter records his adventures getting stoned on Khat bush leaves with a group of Yemenis, and then watching his journalist wife being interviewd on Yemen TV.<br />He plays the tag-along husband to his wife's travels, which excuses him from being the serious one, or at least licences him to delve into the offbeat recluses of her assignments.<br />This is V.S. Naipaul on drugs, with a wicked funny streak, patiently cataloging the absurdity of so much in the Middle East.  This guy would find the same themes to write about wherever you put him down.	2001-05-03
US	52813241	R22MYTBD3UE19O	0684171600	404458421	Treasure Island	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Pieces of Eight, This Book is Great	There's a whole demographic group out there of students who are not being exposed to this book, who are growing up bereft of any knowledge or feeling for terms like \\"shiver me timbers\\" or \\"smart as paint.\\" One measure of a great book is whether kids like the story itself, and then if there's even more to it to appreciate as an adult. By that measure, this belongs in a well-fitted library and on the floor next to the bed of all your kids.<br />The colluquoy between Israel Hands and Jim Hawkins is as precise a look at good v. evil, materialism v. spirit as you can find, and comes out effortlessly in their brief encounter after Jim has gone back to the ship while the battle between the good guys and the pirates is waged on the island.<br />Whatever else went through Stevenson's mind as he lay dying of consumption in Indonesia after writing this, the way he squares off these concepts amid the diffuse clamor of a bloody mutiny, and using a conversation between a young boy and an illiterate but lethal pirate, is a lasting monument to substance in the midst of what is essentially children's literature.	2001-04-26
US	52813241	R16WDPLYXS92IZ	0306806908	50341204	Alexander	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Asia Minor explained	This book has helped me get a feel for what was happening between the era  of 1)Babylonian Empire's dominance followed by Persia; and 2) the later era of Roman hegemony.  I knew the Ptolemies and the Seleucids figured in there, but needed this book to contextualize Alexander.  Asia Minor, and modern Turkey, now seem to make more sense.  The movies &quot;Helen of Troy&quot; and the more recent &quot;Jason and the Argonauts&quot; also fall into place better.	2001-04-26
US	52813241	RHRM8K50ETI6D	1576737330	89800612	The Prayer of Jabez:  Breaking Through to the Blessed Life	Books	1	28	42	N	N	Reminds me of my Accountant	Part of me hates to be the ... in this punchbowl, as Lowell Weicker used to refer to himself in jest among his mostly-more conservative Republicans in the Senate, but here goes. My accountant, who also looks just like Wilkinson's photo on the book, keeps telling me to manage my time by doing just little bits of accounting-input work each day or each week.  Then it's easier to assemble periodic reports, and major IRS filings.<br />It's just ironic predestination that the guy who gave me a copy of this is also a CPA, who was also recruiting people to fly to one of the most expensive resorts in the Bahamas for a multi-day seminar put on by Wilkinson, to learn more of the blessed life.<br />Here, the Jabez prayer is that little daily time management thing, forming the capillary inputs to the GREAT BIG THING, which here is termed the blessed life.  And it's indisputable for a Bible believer because there it is, in the Martindale-Hubbell equivalent entry for one Jabez, in the Chronicles of Israel.<br />Just as the Heidelberg catechism warns against over-repetition of the Mass, or as Jesus warned against repeat-praying as a means of showing how holy you are, I think Wilkinson's selection of the Jabez prayer, and the use of it to authorize requests for individual, personal blessings, sets up an interesting collision with the Lord's Prayer, in which Jesus hits more of a tone of &quot;us&quot; rather than &quot;me.&quot;  So pick your prayer.  Or make your own.<br />I don't doubt that this book has had a great impact on many people, or the genuine commitment of its author to, in his words, fulfilling the Great Commission.  There's a lot of room here in the punchbowl.	2001-04-25
US	52813241	R1NAMOSAWJLM1L	0385248040	140888528	The Whiz Kids: The Founding Fathers of American Business - and the Legacy they Left Us	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Military Industrial Complex Explained	This is a convincing look behind the scenes at Ford, as Robert S. McNamara makes his mark in big business, after figuring out how to manage logistics for the U.S. Dept of Defense during WWII.  It was novel of these guys (the Whiz Kids) to insist that they all be hired by Ford as a group.  Kind of a Japanese team spirit at work.  Then different ones fell by the wayside, and one even committed suicide (no Japanese connection intended).<br />The counterpart to any given U.S. whiz kid for the British during WWII was one Lord Leathers, appointed as material and logistics chief by the war cabinet, whose exploits were referred to by Churchill in his 6 Vol. history of WWII.<br />For the Germans, we had Albert Speer, seeking to wring gasoline form coal while still promising the Fuhrer that he could still have his new boulevards and buildings in Berlin.  I'm not sure who ran this end of things for Stalin, but whomever that was, they must have been pretty smart as well.<br />The interesting thing is the way the Whiz Kids took what they had learned about moving material to feed soldiers and blow things up, and transferred those skills to rescuing Ford from the predations of Henry I just in time to save the industrial neck of Henry II (since in this tragedy we skip over Edsel I as irrelevant, since Henry I pretty much snuffed him out, emotionally anyway).<br />This is all living history, and envy of the Whiz Kids is probably what drove GM to hire Peter Drucker from Vienna to analyze itself, leading to Drucker's first major work describing management of a major public corporation.  This in turn egging on Alfred Sloan to reply with his less readable  &quot;My Years with General Motors.&quot;<br />So a lot happened after these Whiz Kids hit the scene in Detroit. Overall, their quantitative streak seems to elevate them well above trivial &quot;guru&quot; status achieved by so many modern management consultants.  McNamara had an interesting feedback into government, by rejoining DODas a Kennedy guy, from which I guess he repented after the fact to assuage whatever damage he did to his soul by egging on JFK and LBJ beyond the limits of American power, if not authority.  That's a lesson for businessmen, too.	2001-04-25
US	52813241	R3CTI7LMTURD7V	0684847477	865913794	Wide As the Waters: The Story of the English Bible and the Revolution It Inspired	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Incredible Story	Bobrick squarely nails down his subject matter and all in the context of the history of the Hebrew, Greek and Latin texts.  From the roots of the canonical texts, through the great changes wrought by Alexander the Great, the Roman Empire, the Renaissance, the Enlightenment, and any other Era or Character of History since then, he traces the path taken by the English Bible and the people who produced it.<br />The profile of Wycliffe at Oxford is very interesting.  This was no sweaty-faced Elmer Gantry.  Which is nice to see in our own seemingly post-Christian era, in which we see creeping efforts to replace B.C. and A.D. with B.C.E. and C.E.  My guess is the Bible will hold up just fine, no matter what our calendar does.  <br />Winston Churchill said the King James Bible was the greatest thing the English had ever done for the rest of the world.  This book elaborates on that assertion in convincing detail.<br />One remarkable feature of this book is the author's use of measured, graceful language.  Reads the same.	2001-04-20
US	52813241	R38ICRANDBEZPD	0870001620	247304451	The essential Paul Elmer More;: A selection of his writings	Books	1	0	21	N	N	Hermit Scribblings	Russell Kirk said this guy was great, but after buying a whole set of these volumes and stuggling through them, it's only fair to report that More just isn't much of a writer.  This is definitely not for everyone.  Anyone want to buy my set?  Let me know.  You can have them cheap.	2001-04-20
US	52813241	R3J2YMMSHUXMTT	0870001620	247304451	The essential Paul Elmer More;: A selection of his writings	Books	1	1	23	N	N	Hermit Scribblings	Russell Kirk said this guy was great, but after buying a whole set of these volumes and stuggling through them, it's only fair to report that More just isn't much of a writer.  This is definitely not for everyone.  Anyone want to buy my set?  Let me know.  You can have them cheap.	2001-04-20
US	52813241	RGM2LVP8L1IGM	0393310361	293848628	Young Man Luther: A Study in Psychoanalysis and History (Austen Riggs Monograph S)	Books	3	8	21	N	N	Engrossing Standard Work	The father-son relationship Erikson explores here is very interesting.  The most convincing aspects of his analysis are those most closely based on Luther's own writings, such as Luther's deep paralyzing dread at celbrating his first mass in front of his earthly father, as he mediates on behalf of that same father with his heavenly father.<br />Erikson's spirit lives on in the same tension found in &quot;Amadeus,&quot; where Mozart confronts his father's same brand of wrath--suspecting that his son is wasting himself in something unproductive and immoral.<br />Erickson probably is speculating, in the manner of an archaelogist, when he broods about what Young Man Luther may have witnessed around the house in his violent father's relationship with his mother.<br />Psychiatrists need this kind of book.  Taking on the really big personalities helps them understand the rest of us.  Helps them use all the gears on the 18-speed; lets them press all the buttons they will never need to service the only vital end of the market for shrink services: the troubled youth market, the only one with the cash to invest in the counseling arts.  Before you're too far gone for anyone to care about.<br />Perhaps it also helps the rest of us to escape, to focus on something we don't know much about, and aren't very good at: but to be satisfied anyway.  Ibn Khaldun said that was a particular affliction of academics.  That's the good news:  if you can't bear this book, maybe you're a really talented academic with a bright future.  The rest of us are just reading it in an attempt to find meaning in our latest airplane flight.  We're developing a fear of facing the pilot on the way out, since he's such an imposing father figure.  Then we realize he's repeating cheesy little &quot;good byes&quot; and our confidence returns--he's not challenging us at all, he's one of us.  Amen.	2001-04-12
US	52813241	R1HU79GGH7TB54	0811201724	306906705	The Green Child	Books	5	16	31	N	Y	Bang Those Funky Crystals, White Boy	This book speaks at many different levels.  It could be called &quot;adventures in synchronicity&quot; or it could be a Jungian categorical excursion into the same type of regimentation-as-freedom found in, say, a monastery or a totalitarian paradise.  The crystal, milky-white earth-beings found under the earth, as explained here by Read, find their final rest in the form of individual obliteration, as they lay down in neat rows, to become fused as mineralized pieces of a complex crystalline underground society, accompanied in the background by the racket of numerous initiates, tapping out certain patterns of sounds on various-sized hunks of crystal as a preliminary qualification to their own eventual obliteration.<br />Aha!  Now we understand the ice cave scene in &quot;Superman&quot; a little better, as well as the scene in that Planet of the Apes movie where they manipulate crystal inserts in a control panel to cause something like nuclear reactions.  There must be an analogous Star Trek episode as well.<br />The Plato's cave comment picks up on this.  Just as Plato's Republic veers into totalitarianism, so does the Green Child.  Unlike Plato, however, it is not clear that Read is trying to be prescriptive.  It may be optional, as was the Heaven's Gate cult, where they all wore the same shoes, ordered the same food at the same restaurant, laid down on the same size beds, and took the same overdose, waiting for the same spaceship, to unify them with the great beyond up there somewhere.  Read here describes an inversion, going down to the labyrinthe, rather than out into the abyss. Now he has become the brave explorer of the inner extreme.  He thus gains a foothold in medieval thought, with Plato in the rear view mirror.<br />Hermann Hesse may have tried the same thing, with his &quot;Journey to the East&quot; but Hesse trapped himself in an obscure labyrinthine dead end.  By the end of the book, you don't even care what he meant.  Here, with the Green Child, you wonder....is this a vision of heaven?  A fusion of the is and the ought?  What you want equals what you get?  For some people, I think it might be.  In this book resides a vision they find beautiful and personally compelling.<br />It also operates as a cool story on its own.  We'll see how &quot;Lord of the Rings&quot; does later this year.  It would take unusual talent to make this book cognizable as a movie.  For the record, this book makes a good companion to John Updike's essay &quot;Augustine's Concubine,&quot; and if law completely falls apart, I may do a PhD dissertation on Augustine's rejection of regimentation as a starting point for freedom and responsibility.  The opposite of crystal fusion.	2001-04-10
US	52813241	RMTJGFIGPWLV3	0870000799	274359713	Religion and capitalism: allies, not enemies	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Paul Tillich, Call Your Office	Hillary's high school youth group inspiration, liberal theologian Paul Tillich, once wrote that &quot;Christianity is the religion of which Socialism is the practice.&quot;  Opitz completely disagrees, and demonstrates through convincing logical arguments that actually, socialism is an internal version of the international &quot;imperialism&quot; that these same liberals also scorn:  a politically connected minority milking the majority of their wealth, and coining pious arguments to justify it.  Nothing particularly Christian about any of it.  This is a great book.  If I were a socialist, I'd compel you to read it.	2001-04-09
US	52813241	R32MQDG68FVJ7	0691017549	347833187	The Muqaddimah: An Introduction to History	Books	4	13	17	N	N	Can't Blame it all on the Turks	This book is very interesting. An Arabic language instructor at Georgetown University, Mr. Hakim from someplace in Syria, first told me who Ibn Khaldun was, which got me reading this. Written in the 14th Century, it reflects that interesting combination of great learning, mixed with some scientific limitation. For instance, Khaldun says it's a fact that the sun is cooler, the closer you get to it, based on his obsevations that it gets colder the higher up you go in the mountains. He says there's some kind of reflection thing that happens when the sun's rays hit the surface of the Earth, to make heat. He's right, but he's not. This same thing comes thru in Calvin's commentaries on the Bible, in one of which he soberly states the well known fact that vermin spontaneously appear from nothing if you leave a pile of rags in the corner, or that the continents float on the seas.<br />In other topical areas, Khaldun hits more timeless chords. His observations about families rising and falling, and on peoples' need to be led, are very incisive. His writing reflects well on the great learning that once permeated the parts of the world controlled by the Arabic-speaking peoples. In that respect, this book conveys a more positive message than a modern critique of the Arab world, found in a book like &quot;The Closed Circle&quot; by David Pryce-Jones.<br />Khaldun has not much good to say about the Bedouins, which is a cross-current to some of the good things Lawrence of Arabia had to say about them in books like &quot;The Seven Pillars of Wisdom&quot; and &quot;Revolt in the Desert.&quot; Because they inhabit flat area, according to Khaldun, they are cowardly nomads who just destroy everything. He says they are inherently inferior to urban people.<br />Arabs of all kinds tend to lament their fall into relative desuetude after the Turkish rise in the 10th century. This is a rare self-analysis by Khaldun, then, inasmuch as he points the finger at some part of Arab society as containing destructive elements.<br />He is also critical of Jews in some ways, but again, so are a lot of writers from this time period, and not only Arabs.<br />So Mr. Hakim recommeds this, and I agree.	2001-04-07
US	52813241	RZL811KPM1T7T	038550120X	299088859	A Painted House	Books	4	0	0	N	N	East of The Firm	This reads like Steinbeck.  Maybe a diluted version of Steinbeck, or a conflation of Grapes of Wrath and East of Eden. It's hard to make Arkansas sound interesting, and this story starts slow.  But he captures some of the distinctive manners of farm people, and constructs an interesting story.  Of course he puts way too much penetrating analyses into the perception of the 7 year old kid who is the protagonist, but you're  gonna get that with these types of books.  There I go, lapsing into Arkansas-speak.  Also hits the backwardness of hillbillies, without offending.  So it's Steinbeck plus Tom Wolfe at that level.  Nice to see Grisham can transcend the legal stories.	2001-04-05
US	52813241	R16W9FNVW95D34	0393320979	481105340	Beowulf: A New Verse Translation (Bilingual Edition)	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	Blood and Guts	I just read this over Spring break, and closed another gap in my lacunae-esque education.  Previously, I had only been able to listen to a tape of Beowulf, with a lot of editorial explanation.<br />The long intro. by the author is extremely helpful.  Then on to the text.  The boasts sound like Kirk Douglas in &quot;Eric the Red.&quot;  But wait a minute, I think  I have that exactly backwards.  The parts where 1) Grendel; 2) Grendal's mom; and 3) the 50 foot nameless dragon are slain are pretty gripping.  I read them to my 8 year old as bedtime stories.   This was in part motivated by my urge to contextualixe C.S. Lewis, Tolkein, and Harry Potter for her.  Surprising comment back from the 8 year old: &quot;This would be too violent to read in school.&quot;<br />The intro. makes a very good point about J.R.R. Tolkein as the first serioius scholar to simply let Beowulf be Beowulf, to free it from over-analysis by language-science types, and let it just be a violent story about history, striving, doom, death, and everything else that's in here.  This has the effect of elevating Tolkein, and his writings, as well.<br />The  very violence of Beowulf is a nice correction for the chronic potion-mixing and spell casting of Harry what's his name.  The butchery described here, though, has more in common with Rwanda or the recent civil war in Sierra Leone, than it does with Lewis or Tolkein.  Difference is that in Africa, they skip the armor.  Until Africa develops its own literature of slaughter, we have this.	2001-04-02
US	52813241	R3IAUGX7ILQ0B4	0029328705	794564633	Knowledge and Politics	Books	2	18	29	N	N	Fact/Value antinomy redeployed as Politics/Knowledge	Here it is, from &quot;Mr. Relentless&quot; whose after-dinner speeches at Harvard-sponsored dinner meetings circulate like so many sacred artifacts among devoted followers of the Critical Legal Studies movement (aka &quot;Crits&quot;).  Unger is famous for speaking without notes, and without pausing.  Kind of a Richard Epstein of the left.  This is his big book.  It goes well with his major Harvard Law Review article of about 17 years ago.  <br />The book is an examination of law and action, the same theme explored by Thomas Sowell from a more deontological, constrained perspective in his book &quot;Knowledge and Decisions.&quot;  You know something?  Is it the same as what you do?  You know how society could be best?  Well, does it play out that way in society, that Aristotelian sphere of the polis?  Also known as politics, where things are reduced to debates between Nixons and Kennedys, Bushes and Gores.  Clintons and....well, let's move on.<br />Here's my criticism of this Crit.  This book is ponderous, complex, and yes, inexorable.  Unger refuses to allow you to encounter his premises of argument, without also embracing his neo-marxist-inspired conclusions, which basically work the same &quot;antinomy&quot; between what we want and what we get, which originally starred in Marx's writings exploring the basis for humankind's sense of &quot;alienation.&quot;  Later marxists from the Frankfurt school played the same themes, extended into the arts (Horkheimer), psychology (Bloch), and eroticism (Marcuse).  Now here's Unger with the application to law.<br />Since law applies to social action, if we need law, there must be a difference between what we want and how we are.  Some need to enforce something.  Thus the contradiction, and Unger's direction is to work the contradiction to indict the shortcomings of what he labels &quot;liberalism.&quot;  But he stops at the indictment.  No alternative.  As if he is a literary form of Hodgkins disease, that needs some healthybody in which to circulate, and attack everything.  Take away the relentless attack, though, and what do you have?  I haven't found anything.<br />At the end of the book, in a flourish, Unger cries out &quot;Speak, God!&quot;  Next to which I have jotted &quot;Roll over, God!  Play dead, God!&quot;   The theism point of departure can also be taken further, investigating what it might look like to submit to God to listen and obey what he might have to say.  Paul wrote of the same antinomy, or struggle:  &quot;I have the desire to do what is good, but I cannot carry it out.&quot; (Romans 7:18b)  And &quot;So I find this law at work: When I want to do good, evil is right there with me.  For in my inner being I delight in God's law; but I see another law at work in the members of my body, waging war against the law of my mind and making me a prisoner of the law of sin at work within my members.  What a wretched man I am!&quot; (Rom 7:21-24).  Unger also no doubt knew of Paul's description of the same conundrum, when he wrote his book.  Unger just goes in a different direction.  <br />Will anyone read Unger in 2000 years?  I guess we'll never know.  Is he worth reading over now?  Yes, but know what you're getting into. Like law, it's not self-executing, even if Unger thinks he has it pretty finely machined and nailed together.	2001-03-21
US	52813241	R80W4XC170FJC	0385265425	136027495	You Are the Message: Getting What You Want by Being Who You Are	Books	4	2	9	N	N	Mike Douglas shows	Here I thought the Mike Douglas show was some weird grown up thing that came on at some point after Dick Van Dyke but before The Three Stooges.  Little did I know that behind the scenes of that boring show, lurked Roger Ailes, sharpening his blarney stone to help others, including Ronald Reagan, connect better with their audiences.  This book weaves every last shred of Mike Douglas insights into Mr. Ailes's subsequent world.<br />It's a good book.  I just wonder if it succeeds too easily, based as it is on an old has-been show.  As if it's a kind of intellectual dirtying insisting on its own purity and self-importance.  Makes me slightly afraid to open the next business self-imporvement book, for fear of finding the heretofore unknown intellectual father of the &quot;Hazel&quot; show knowledgeably trading insider pointers for making tons of money, or at least becoming President.	2001-03-21
US	52813241	R3DHAXA615OJL5	0517205742	693835372	Tales from Shakespeare: Children's Classics	Books	3	12	23	N	N	Does the Job	Good didactic summaries, suitable for cramming information into your head long enough to comprehend what's going on in your teenager's high school English class.  More often than not, it will be modernized versions of Shakespeare, with modern weapons and other interpretive gloss.  This keeps the story straight.  But reading the basic stories in stripped down prose almost kills them.  So what.  It's enough for info-abosrption.  Read it if you have to.  If you want to read Shakespeare, on the other hand, read it like he wrote it.	2001-03-20
US	52813241	R3ONLQ4QL4ZDLH	0848258991	226938672	Theodore Roosevelt's Letters to His Children	Books	4	9	10	N	N	More than Words	Theodore Roosevelt not only wrote to his kids, but also drew great pictures.  One of his best in here is a drawing of TR playing tennis.  Before widespread telphones, and certainly prior to cell phones, people seemed to dash off notes to each other more frequently.  One school of TR thought says Teddy simply loved writing to his kids in profusion.  The revisionist school says, of course he did, since he was so frequently away.<br />TR's letters to his son Quentin are especially touching, since later on Quentin took a German gunner's bullet through the head over France, driving TR into inconsolate murmerings lamenting the loss of his &quot;Quentee-Quee.&quot;  The development of these nicknames is chronicled in these letters.<br />For whatever reason TR wrote them, they read very movingly.  TR's own namesake, Ted Jr., tried to pull off the same thing with his kids, documented in another out-of-print book written by Ted Jr (before his early heart attack during WWII) called &quot;All in the Family.&quot;  Wherein little Ted's mistake is to too slavishly imitate big TR's way of organizing walks, going camping, and dashing off notes.  So there is something inimitable here, which should also caution the modern reader from hankering too quickly to start writing letters-a-plenty.  But the picture drawing might be OK.  What kid wouldn't like a few more scribbled pictures from their dad?  <br />So at least look at the pictures here.  Unlike Ronald Reagan's, these were done to and for TR's own kids.  Not to dump on Ron, but to perhaps establish a reference point among competing versions of family dysfunction.	2001-03-20
US	52813241	R2VRTTPB36LZ27	0785274324	30583435	The 21 Most Powerful Minutes In A Leader's Day: Revitalize Your Spirit And Empower Your Leadership	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Yeah, it's good.	You get used to seeing these types of books, which are frequently given as gifts by people who have no idea what you really like or need to read.  Which is where I got this.  But it's not bad.<br />Take Hudson Armerding's book &quot;Leadership,&quot; and fuse it with Roger Ailes's book &quot;You are The Message: Getting what you want by being who you are&quot; and cut it up into templated nuggets keyed to periodic readings, and something like this is what you might get.  The difference, qualitatively, is that Maxwell has really worked his leadership examples from the Bible, and for the most part keeps them in historic context while pulling out lessons for contemporary application.  In the flyleaf/back pages, you can see how he is hawking the same things on a web site and on a tape series, to transform these lessons into sermons for ministers who need a little defibrillation.<br />Having read James MacGregor Burns on &quot;Leadership&quot; some years ago, and being impressed ever since (although bothered by the weird Oedipal analyses Burns applied to guys like Gandhi, Martin Luther and others), Maxwell is refreshingly Biblical without being too preachy.  Non-Christian or Non-Jewish readers should be able to see things in here other than some former Bible-college student constantly telling us how he revitalized the three churches he pastored before becoming a fund raising consultant and a leadership conference organizer.  The book gets beyond that and stays on point.<br />This is a sign that Christian business/leadership writing is coming into its own.  Looking at a lot of other leadership books which grope for an over-arching metaphor drawn from polar expeditions, evolution (yawn) or other meta-physics, makes you realize that the ancient lessons recorded in the Bible can be just as gripping.  I would think other faith traditions could do the same, hopefully also getting past the jingoistic level of &quot;Leadership Secrets of Attila the Hun.&quot;	2001-03-19
US	52813241	R3DVE01UHAN9DY	0028638468	508791979	Complete Idiot's Guide to the Life of Christ	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Can Anything Good Come out of a &quot;Complete Idiot&quot; Book?	Yes, something good can come from Nazareth, and here we have something good about the same thing, coming out of Complete Idiot-land.  It's a little hard to get used to, since it's not really a Sunday school paper, but not quite a copy of the New Testament, either.<br />Includes sections on how Jesus fulfilled Old Testament prophecies, and a section analyzing the Book of Revelation.  Doing this explores the context of Christ's life, and this format ends up producing a refreshing new look.<br />The radical nature of Christ's message comes out clearly, as the author here boils it down:  don't worry about anything; disregard hypocrites; love your neighbor.<br />The anaylsis of the four gospel books is pretty standard.  For a guy who, according to the back cover, is on a teaching gig at St. John the Divine cathedral in NYC (home of ultra-liberals like William Sloane Coffin), the author is remarkably Orthodox in his approach.  Althouth he's a Presbyterian, he's in touch with urban ministries and younger people, all of which comes out here.<br />The anti-scholastic tone achieved by the cover and packaging may also be more authentically Christ-like than most people would think.  The author leaves room in his writing for doubts about who Jesus was, or is, which is also appropriate for this medium.	2001-03-15
US	52813241	R9C7QOJZWVQ68	0940473216	639871025	Old Peninsula Days: Tales and Sketches of the Door County Peninsula	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Door County Unplugged	Hard as it is to imagine, there lurks beneath the layer of casually well-dressed, pancake eating, gallery peeking outsiders from urban centers to the South, a stratum of history where, in Door County, Wisconsin, people actually depended on the logging of trees and the maintenance of big-lake shipping vessels for their daily bread.  This book explores that layer, as well as the prior layer of Indians and missionaries, followed by the Moravians.<br />The Indians gave it the name &quot;Door&quot; for reasons related by Holand, and the Indians were practitioners of especially brutal methods of starving, tricking and torturing each other in battles that ranged up this peninsula, and downward to the West along the Southern shores of Green Bay.<br />Interestingly, Ephraim was &quot;A Venture in Communism&quot; but now is surely more of a venture in condominiumism.<br />Peter Rowley, the name-giver to Rowley's Bay, turns out to have been a land speculator selling chunks of a new city to other speculators, which would be built in spite of the total lack of any farming, fishing, or timber industry.  It did not work.  Still, it's a charming story wedged into this peninsular history, and its part of the unique charm of this piece of land poking out into Lake Michigan that it has produced such individuated little histories tied to discrete bays running up both sides with one extra measure of history allocated to Washington Island at the top.<br />Importantly, this history achieves a kind of brand of tribal story telling which conveys the character of the place without becoming cutesy or even self-conscious.	2001-03-01
US	52813241	R2C90GHQEVMCW8	068486214X	889208740	The Worldly Philosophers: The Lives, Times And Ideas Of The Great Economic Thinkers, Seventh Edition	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	Good Intro to Econ History	Starting with the physiocrats, Heilbroner summarizes schools of economic thought, and profiles some leading exponents of each.  Temperamentally an interventionist, the author nevertheless reveals some glaring weaknesses in Utopian economic thought.<br />His chapter on Fourier and the French philosopher's attempt to sell a business plan for some rich capitalist to fund a phalangerie system of society is very interesting, and captures the dilemma of so many meliorist thinkers who fail to convince a critical mass of society to buy into their plans to revolutionize society.<br />His treatment of communism is doctrinaire, with not much focus on the need for a rabid, ruthless minority to force the rest of society to accept Marxist theory and practice.<br />The book ends with meditations on Galbraith, and the now-quaint prescriptions for government power to &quot;countervail&quot; private economic power in allegedly free market economies.<br />The great strength of this book is not whether you agree or disagree with any of the theories profiled by Heilbroner, but that he presents them in a compelling way, relates them to the real people who expressed them distinctively, and creates the desire to learn more.  That was Isaac Asimov's definition of what it means to learn.<br />This book is very good for younger readers who need a challenge.	2001-02-28
US	52813241	R1MTKXZPMS0N8Z	0736609113	337293590	My Early Life:  A Roving Commission	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Make Me Great	For a book written by the author when in his 30s (I may be off by a few years), this is incredible.  First, because Churchill himself wrote it, and not some professional writer.  Second, because of the extreme detail, which suggests either an incredible memory, or a willingness to make up finely constructed overlays of fiction.  Maybe this is a little of both.  Churchill either covers his tracks well, or presents the facts very pleasantly.<br />His mom ignores him and his dad holds about 3 substantive conversations with him.  In return, he idolizes and idealizes both, consoling himself by getting in trouble at school, and playing army at home.  Like a latter-day Peter the Great, his childhood army games lay a foundation for adult army leadership, although Churchill stays more constrained than the despotic Russian. He maintains, however, a raw animal side to his spirit which stays intact his whole life, resulting, in one memorable event about 40 or 45 years after this book cuts off with Churchill's marriage, where Churchill pauses on an inspection of a European battlefield after the defeat of Germany to urinate on the famed &quot;Siegfried Line&quot; in front of a group of military dignitaries.  Naughty boy to the end.<br />Churchill convincingly puts himself back into young boy mode and preserves for us portraits of his nurse, Mrs. Everest, the hatefulness of boarding school, and the release of achieving self-actualization in the form of military school at Sandhurst, and then a whirlwind of military adventures on several continents, arranged mostly by his influential and adulterous mother.  Not much adultery here, but William Manchester goes through it in detail in his first of the two-volume set &quot;The Last Lion.&quot;  Churchill never criticizes his mother; he just takes maximum advantage of her contacts.<br />In a double inversion of himself as the subject, this is a great summary of how Churchill decided to become a great man by first getting noticed in the middle of adventures, and writing about them during and afterwards.  Plus getting paid for the writing to support himself on a scale correlative to other British subjects who either inherited it, or made it big in business.  But it was all substrate for his political ambitions.<br />Teddy Roosevelt thought Churchill was a &quot;show off.&quot;  Which is probably true, and which comes out clearly in the video-ization of this book, under the name of &quot;Young Winston.&quot;  But he seems to have been a lovable showoff, and if Kennedy had not intervened, American political aspirants may instead be more self-consiously modeling themselves on Young Winston.   <br />One problem:  John Churchill had no male offspring, according to the family tree Winston added to his biography of Marlborough.  No problem, just call yourself a Churchill, not a &quot;Spencer-Churchill&quot; or even a &quot;Spencer&quot; and just go to market as a Churchill.  Plus make yourself great.  He definitely did, and this book records what it also produces.	2001-02-28
US	52813241	R2X4PG31CCQOCI	189312262X	706343228	Galileo: A Life	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Craters and All	Reston does a lot with this.  He captures the bad side of the Pope's insistence that Galileo refrain from describing the surface of the moon as anything other than perfectly smooth, shiny, and sinless.  Because of course Adam and Eve had not sinned up there.  Like Galileo, Reston also catalogues some of the surface imperfections of his subject, and what they suggest about his mindset and his world.  <br />The family portrait of Galileo's two daughters, both shunted off to a convent, is tragic, and Reston penetrates this sub-unit of his topic convincingly, getting into how one daughter became pious, while another become embittered.  The idea of using the Church for refuge for your daughters is intersting, since the same Church was leaning on Galileo.<br />This book is a great tour of the man behind the discoveries, the math equations and the historic controversies.  The feel of the Italian city states of the Renaissance also comes out in this book, and it's no coincidence that the family and clan-based capitalism of Galileo's patrons had to precede or lay the groundwork for someone of Galileo's talents to really produce something.<br />This book is hard to put down.  Good to take on a vacation.	2001-02-28
US	52813241	R2610OA73I7ADC	0375405445	406271874	Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Makes me Want to Read &quot;American Sphinx&quot;	This is a great book.  Ellis hones in on key ideas and great stresses within our system of federal and state government by working outward from biographical sketches of the people who either produced those ideas, or got caught in their implementation.<br />The Hamilton-Burr duel exegesis is outstanding, and the exploration of Burr's mindset, motivations, and consequent actions is a good complement to our knowledge of the bare facts of what happened.  The way Ellis gets into the details of, for example, Hamilton putting on his spectacles just before being shot, humanized his subject in a way that Richard Brookhiser also has achieved in his full biography of Hamilton published a few years ago.  Ellis takes a few strains of Hamilton further, showing us the side of Hamilton that  may have been ready to lead a military insurrection against  Congress, for example.<br />Then his Jefferson/Adams chapter is very good.  It's a relief to see a great American manipulator like Jefferson brought back to earth, and good to see that the man himself tried to achieve some penance for his sins against the Federalists, in his surprising correspondence with Adams.  Ellis unearths some canny aspects of Jefferson which we see in successful politicians of today:  projecting a false certainty about inherently unknowable projects, as well as fudging dollar estimates of what things like the University of Virginia would really cost, by starting with ridiculously low--but politically acceptable--numbers in order to commit public funds beyond the point of no return.<br />The demographic analysis of slavery presented by Ellis is a good example of using modern methods of criticism, but reserving modern scorn for others to apply.  We get an explanation for why Virginia and Virginians were so ready to go along with the compromise/scandal of not counting slaves as full people: Virginia had just way too many slaves relative to its number of non-slaves in its population.  This provides us with a cold shower of reality lest we wax too nostalgic for some kind of essential purity inherent in all of the great Virginian founders.  The fact that their work lasted until the seemingly always inevitable Civil War (perhaps preordained by their own over-stimulated view of state sovereignty produced by their Virginia-centric view of the world) is still incredible.  The fact that Jefferson did not free Sally Hemmings in his last will and testament, but did free a few others (although over 100 were simply auctioned off like cattle) is brought to light here, again as a good corrective to over-effulgent interpretations of Jefferson.<br />Ellis seems like what  a history teacher should be.  I hope his students at Mount Holyoke appreciate him as much as I do.	2001-02-22
US	52813241	REBA739SH1Y9H	0786707518	592701669	The River War: An Account of the Reconquest of the Sudan	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Charge It	This is the Churchill book with the account of the last war charge of British cavalry in the field.  In which Churchill, always a little different, uses a pistol rather than a sword, due to his dislocated shoulder problem from way back in Bangalore days (prelude to his first War Book, The Malakand Field Force).<br />For such a young writer, there are surprisingly mature observations on the topic of war, to the effect that everyone on both sides is all for it before it starts, then generally eager to be done with it once it's underway.  The tone of this book, though, mostly reflects eagerness.<br />This book is a good resource to better understand the events faithfully portrayed in the video &quot;My Early Life&quot; and this book can itself be better understood as a follow-on to watching Charleton Heston in the role of General &quot;Chinese&quot; Gordon getting killed at the end of the movie &quot;Khartoum,&quot; which is the event that actuated the punitive expedition which forms the subject of The River War.<br />You won't find a better blend of action and theory, than this book written by a participant who at least lopped off the interesting parts of this campaign to form a part of his own, far more wide ranging life story.	2001-02-22
US	52813241	R303JT18DKLHBE	0938065181	833774792	Illinois trial evidence	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Everybody Has One	Although I have the 1989 version, 12 years later I'm still using it for trial work.  Maybe it's the 18 perfectly-spaced, clearly labeled flip-tabs, starting with &quot;relevance&quot; and running through competence, privilege, admissions, demonstrative evidence, impeachment, hearsay (2 tabs), authentication, objections, and a few more.  There's a section on offers of proof and parol evidence, too.<br />The principles, key cases, and tactical pointers are set out in bold, bullets, and section headings.  This book hits it just about right for the general commercial trial lawyer.  It's especially useful to cite to enough detail in a hurry, to overcome the skimpy defense-lawyer motions defense lawyers tend to lob around the courtroom during trial.<br />The 3 ring flip-book format has advantages to Hunters or Mauet; and bringing Mauet to court with you risks looking funny.	2001-02-22
US	52813241	RB6O1N66HIRK4	0226321894	353476306	Communists and Their Law	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Smells like Revolution...	Did the Bolsheviks initiate a new member of the world's family of legal systems, in their spare time after blasting away at the entire Russian royal family in that infamous cottage basement in Yekaterinburg, before or after ordering the assassinations of Kirov and Trostky?  What happened to people dragged into courts in the U.S.S.R., if you lived through the extermination of the Kulaks, perhaps by eating the flesh of your dead children?<br />It's easy to assume that the small communist minorities ruling the U.S.S.R. and its various pathetic wannabe states in places like Mali and other African places, or its shotgun-married &quot;near abroad&quot; areas of the Warsaw Pact, just machine gunned everyone who gave them any crap, and left it at that.  Turns out that's not the case.<br />John Hazard studied &quot;Communists and their Law&quot; for over 50 years, and had access to the brightest communist lawyers througout the world, starting with F.D.R. giving him some assignments in teh U.S.S.R.  Hazard ended up cultivating deep relationships with top communist scholars, and even training many of them over the years, in how the civil law and common law countries operated, and then by contrast how communist (or to the chagrin of so many fabian types, &quot;Socialist&quot;) legal systems operated.<br />The communists in Russia pretty much took the French Civil Code and knocked out the private property protections.  They pretended to keep the other protections in.  A cross current in early Soviet history was the imperative of consulting your own navel-bound sense of &quot;socialist conscience&quot; if you happened to be a judge in this system.  Koestler-esque show trials and bogus confessions during the great Stalin purges don't really fit into this analysis.  So they are sort of ignored by the legal intelligentsia.<br />Hazard presents this legal system with sensitivity and perception.  He never really answers the question of whether the Soviets and their puppets got beyonddisembowling the French civil code, but he hints that he thinks they did.  This book will remain as a touchstone to help understand whatever serious efforts were made between 1917 and the disintegration of communism, to set up a new legal system true to the kindest possible interpretation and application of that cantankerous old misanthropic boil-lancer of British Museum scribbling fame, our old goblin, Mr. Misty-Past Karl Marx himself.  So the world is clearing its throat and spitting out the 70 year old putrid buildup of communism, but darn it, Professor Hazard was willing to take it seriously.  I did, too, when I studied with him in Moscow, St. Petersburg and Warsaw for the Summer of 1982.	2001-02-22
US	52813241	RAKN4DZXNFCI6	0700603115	919252714	Novus Ordo Seclorum: The Intellectual Origins of the Constitution	Books	5	11	11	N	N	All the Pieces	McDonald does a great job here unwinding the ideas and institutions developed by the founding generation to produce our system of dual sovereignty.  He retains a reverence for what our founders accomplished, and constrains himself to an explanation of what happened to bring into operation our &quot;New Order&quot; which now looks quite old.<br />McDonald is critical of the Charles Beard brand of economic reductionism, and has no patience for the relentless deconstruction of the constitutionalist era by modern historians who insist on showing us that they, rather than these founders, are actually superior moral beings with better insights, as well as more slavish devotion to the current strains of academic obsessions.<br />This should be on the list of the 10 best books to understand the American system of government.	2001-02-22
US	52813241	R3W4NRPIBKTVXZ	0151903107	246375811	Till Death Do Us Part: Bendix Vs. Martin Marietta	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Pass the Cookies, and I'll have Another Company, Please	This book is business reporting at its best.  The story of William Agee and his move on Martin Marietta from the base of Bendix Corp is riveting stuff.  And like so much else in life, there's an undertone of the doomed and ridiculous--here in the form of Mary Cunningham, the Bendix employee who becomes Agee's wife, and who weaves in and out of the big takeover story offering cookies to powerful business titans in the middle of big meetings.<br />I think Agee ended up running companies next to a golf course in California, several states away from his business operations, and Cunningham now ( I seem to recall) works with non-profits.<br />This book was assigned to our Mergers &amp; Acquisitions class in law school, taught by a now-former head of &quot;Corp Fin&quot; at the SEC.  It's easier to read a book like this, than to decipher all the technical rules governing how to run a proxy war to conquer an unwilling merger partner.<br />This book is also a warning to smaller capitalists, to stop yearning to be an IPO and &quot;go public.&quot;  Staying private avoids a lot of trouble, and keeps you out of the clutches of people like Agee.	2001-02-19
US	52813241	R15EUJ7CYYU93B	081440622X	981285956	The Customer Differential  Complete Guide to Implementing Customer Relationship Management CRM	Books	5	7	16	N	N	Transformative Number Cruncher	Nykamp displays an uncanny grasp of CRM, and once you start reading this, you'll be hard pressed to put it down.  But it's possible.  Just as data management and customer base intangibles are huge unknowns, so often just sitting around ignored inside businesses as after-the-fact residuals adding zero value, books on the topic can also be hard to grasp, and easy to discard, defeating the attention span of the reader.  Or else they get so technical, with little diagrams showing imaginary pipelines and storage drums, that only complete insiders can decipher them--if only they needed to.  This book is refreshingly different, because it's graspable.  The case studies are to the point, and balanced.  Unlike, say, a book like &quot;The Change Masters,&quot; you can read Nykamp and still feel that she is only mentioning her client relationships to get into her point and then out again, not showing off or name-dropping.  This may be related to Nykamp's background growing up in John Calvin's stern shadow among the Dutch immigrant culture of Western Michigan, breeding ground of so many relentless entrepreneurs more interested what's the next big thing, than in trapping themselves in the past, or in the status quo.  <br />How can scrounging around in the data symbols of your current transactions help you see what's ahead?  This is a fair question, one that can be brainlessly solved by ordering your current accouting program to disgorge some pie charts, or bar graphs.  Maybe display them in four colors.  But does that make you and your ocmpany any smarter?<br />By breaking up her subject and showing how CRM can be understood and implemented in discrete steps, Nykamp demystifies the data, and invites the reader to think about taking charge of it to learn something new.<br />Once the tech-heads gave us personal computers, now pervasively adopted by both consumers and producers of products and services, it was inevitable that people like Melinda Nykamp would emerge to make a business out of keeping track of the consequent interactions.  Nykamp's first published book is a solid and substantial contribution to this emerging field.	2001-02-17
US	52813241	R358AJB089AJU8	0060688246	74501038	A Severe Mercy	Books	1	22	83	N	N	Goopy and Possibly Dangerous	This could be an example of the over-wrought, hyper-dramatized love story exemplifying what Denis de Rougemont warned against in his analysis of Love in the Western World.  VanAuken writes about how he and his wife insisted on reading all the same books together (out loud) and then sailing around in their sailboat, analyzing the intensity of their love.  Then she becomes terminally ill and the floodgates of more lover-analysis open wider still.<br />There is something surreal about this book, explained perhaps by vast inherited wealth on the author's side of the family.  Two college students who were captivated by this book over 10 years ago faked their disappearance to run away together, and ended up slinging hash in some deli in LaJolla, California, and then had to come home again--proof of the need for a lot of cash to really live like VanAuken describes.  They told the newspapers they were inspired by this book.  I guess their inspiration could have been worse. <br />So this book is a prescription for escapism, in addition to whatever else it is.	2001-02-15
US	52813241	RFDPA4BDR4I5M	0801025249	660059503	The Institutes of Christian Religion	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Hard Core Calvin	This is the hard core of the much longer Institutes.  The translation of the title is slightly different than the Ford Lewis Battles full-bore 2-Vol. set, which goes by &quot;Institutes of The Christian Religion.&quot;  Perhaps that's refreshing for hard-core students of the Battles version.<br />I was describing this abridgement to a friend as &quot;pretty much the core of the 15% to 20% of what's left of the Insitutes when  when you cut out all Calvin's footnotes ranting against the Catholics and accusing his foes of being dogs returning to their vomit.&quot;  The friend's reply: &quot;But those are the best parts.&quot;  However, for those readers who would be put off by the hand-to-hand combat found in Calvin's profusion of footnotes (or more properly, in Dr. Battles's vast multiplication of explanatory footnotes), this volume is helpful.  Here we have simply Calvin cut loose from his scholastic bickering conflicts.<br />It only seems less Calvinistic to read through this so easily.	2001-02-15
US	52813241	R1L7IB943X4H57	0887306292	470896892	Hard Drive: Bill Gates and the Making of the Microsoft Empire	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Sleep Under your Desk, Skip the Shower, Blow off Harvard	This is the first &quot;big&quot; biography of Gates and is written by local reporters with a feel for Seattle and the indigenous industry which has been guaranteed a place in world history all because Bill Gates decided to jump in his Porsche one day and get out of Albuquerque as fast as he could drive.  Home to the ancestral Seattle, with Mom-very-rich-family and dad respected-lawyer with connections all over the place:  None of which would have been worth anything unless Bill was obsessed with software, starting with Lunar Lander, traffic light control programs, and then of course the big IBM success.<br />The intensity of Gates comes out clearly here.  Wearing the smae shirt forever, paying some lady to do his laundry and pay his bills, ripping the radio out of his car so he can think more intently, sleeping under the desk.  And lots of foul language.  This strain of the book does not come out as clearly in later books, now that Gates is married, a major philanthropist, and under the gun of all of the politically connected Utah software Republicans he defeated in the business wars. The book has a funny scene where Gates refers to the 70 year old head of Novell as &quot;Grandfather from Hell.&quot;  <br />When Judge Stanley Sporkin read this book over a weekend (hoping to develop more obsessive behavior like his anti-hero Bill?), it caused him to try to quash the DOJ consent decree negotiated with Microsoft in the first antitrust case.  Sporkin saw something evil in Microsoft and Gates as a result of reading this book.  Microsoft got Sporkin's judicial spike of the consent decree reversed by another court, and got Sporkin dumped from the case (I seem to recall).<br />The childhood portions of the book are revealing.  There are the usual recitations of how smart Bill was as a kid, but also a hint that he had to change schools because of adjustment problems. Prior to junior high.<br />The early years in N.M. are recounted with a sense of drama, and in that sense, reading this book prepares you to understand more completely the details in the movie &quot;Pirates of Silicon Valley&quot; (e.g., the scene in the diner where Bill successfully argues Paul Allen into a larger equity chunk for Bill, less for Paul).<br />Bill going &quot;legal&quot; early to protect the I.P. rights to Microsoft's software is also key to his later empire, and the authors cover it early, along with the court battles with the MIPS guy over rights to Bill and Paul's work.<br />My reaction to reading this right after it came out was to buy stock in MSFT, which Judge Sporkin may have also done, I guess.  I must have skipped over the rabid anti-Microsoft stage of my development.  ...  Bill owns it and stole it from Patterson?  So what, he bought it.<br />Gates seems to have the qualities of an inventor, a construction foreman, and a broker.  This puts him in Henry Ford's league, and he seems to be a lot smarter, as well.  Go Microsoft.	2001-02-08
US	52813241	R2AG13U83MW02U	0471548065	315752627	Edison: A Biography	Books	4	35	38	N	N	Still Readable	&quot;It's still burning&quot; was the phrase repeated as the light bulb stayed lit longer and longer.  The same phrase was used by Edison's son to keep the death-vigil crowds informed as the great man lay dying, as relayed by this author.  Unlike the Edison method of great volumes of empirical data patiently sifted down in huge experiments, the author deftly moves in and out of topics in a refreshingly constrained manner, which he really has to do to keep his book medium-length and still cover a lot. <br />The middle to the end of the book explores some very important themes, where there are irreconcilable problems with some of Edison's later inventions and the marketability of the resulting products.  Like the ore-smashing enterprise in New Jersey, which worked, but not at a market profit.  Same thing with the goldenrod-into-rubber operation in Florida.<br />These then become background for some surprisingly sensitive observations on Edison, made by his friends John Burroughs and Henry Ford.  Ford is too sentimental to shut down the funding of the hopeless goldenrod operation; and Burroughs gently points out how Edison in his later years at least, contradicted his personal core-beliefs about sleeping and eating food (He sleeps till 10 am, &quot;bolts half a pie,&quot; dumps tons of sugar in his coffee, then lectures on how Americans should eat less and sleep less).<br />The disconnect which also developed between Edison and his children is developed against the backdrop of Edison's inability to relate to the scale and demands of the electric power industry which he helped create.  At his core, as the author shows, Edison's ability to do things was not necessarily transferable to others, including his children.  The first batch of kids went kind of bad, and the group from marriage #2 turned out better because wife #2 was more strict and traditional than Edison.<br />Harvard Business Review recently had an article on great leaders, and pointed out that for every narcissistic leader, you need about 100 obsessive-compulsives scurrying around to make things really work.  Each type needs the other to get anything done.  This seems to have been the case with Edison, who in addition to being headstrong and creative, had the essential gifts described by Henry Ford as necessary to get anything done:  also have &quot;the soul of an Irish construction foreman and a Jewish broker.&quot;  Or something like that.	2001-02-07
US	52813241	RTN3IA8R30S00	0742613518	248651561	Kindred of the Dust (The Bestsellers of 1920)	Books	3	12	12	N	N	Tough Love Sawmill Style	Son of Scottish tough guy sawmill baron goes off to college in the East, incidentally doubling Dad's money by investing in forestland and paying for college with the profits (thus handing Dad back all the college money upon graduation), then coming back to try to measure up to Dad.<br />Son does it, along the way filling the redemption theme of the book by falling in love with the woman of bad repute who lives at the edge of proper sawmill society with her illegitimate child.<br />Contains fistfights and other Northwest bygone era male behaviors, and includes vivid descriptions of father blowing off a cannon each morning to start the day (lives on a cliff, so it's cool).<br />By the end of the book, Son is Dad's boy, and everybody better just accept the wife he has chosen.   Wife experiences this act of grace and adoption with gratefulness, and turns her own brand of toughness and love into supporting Son.<br />Good themes, basic story, blow off the cannon, take over the dynasty.<br />Then put the book down and return to your own comparatively miserable data-entry existence, buoyed by this outdated but invigorating book.	2001-02-06
US	52813241	RO8QXBHRJEUAE	0684826364	315759743	Out of Control: Global Turmoil on the Eve of the 21st Century	Books	4	9	17	N	N	All Carter's Advisors were not Wimps	This is a good book, by the Polish-born national security advisor to Jimmy Carter, who called him &quot;Zbig.&quot;  We'll just say Z.  Z has a great summary of the essentially religious nature of communism, and opens with a great, nearly Solzhenitsyn-esque sweeping condemnation of the whole communist enterprise, ending with a math exercise of all the people who have been killed by communism. <br />Now that communism is flying apart, he previews some of the challenges facing the world, focusing on what Z refers to as the &quot;oblong&quot; of instablility covering the Middle East on the West, and swinging South and East to cover the areas including Armenia and the various &quot;Stan&quot; countries around there, Iraq, Iran, and East to India.  It is here, says Z, that the first Post-Hiroshima/Nagasaki nuclear weapons will probably be used.<br />He also meditates on the challenges posed by genetic engineering.<br />Zbig is a serious guy, as he implies by informing us that the book's introduction was written in Northeast Harbor, ME, which gives away the Rockefeller antecedents to his career, and achieves harmonic convergence with the John McCloy-esque brand of service-provider to the establishment.<br />This book came out almost the same time as Bill Clinton's &quot;health security card&quot; State of the Nation address, and to me, this highlighted the essential role that Zbig has played in helping us to realize the relative triteness of so much domestic U.S. political pandering (especially by Democrats like Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton) compared to the harrowing problems facing us and everyone else internationally.  Zbig's particular tragedy was having to mount his platform of international advice-giving at the pleasure of these destructive, immature half-statesmen who generally made the world more dangerous by ignoring or talking past real problems.	2001-02-06
US	52813241	R3MCSZM81CCSA	0156005832	388617595	Out of America: A Black Man Confronts Africa	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Good Thing There's a First Amendment Protecting This	This book reminds me of another book, &quot;The Camp of The Saints,&quot; in that a lot of people who have read it will not necessarily admit doing so in proper company.  Unlike &quot;Saints,&quot; however, this is not intended as fiction....................  This is shown in his reporting of the unreal Jesse Jackson fact-finding mission to Africa, what it tells him about Africa, and what it says about Jackson.  The author strongly implies Jackson has no idea what Africa is really about.<br />Then there's the recurrent theme of how he deals with the intense and hostile quizzing he gets at every border of every African country, as army guys vie with one another to discern the author's African heritage by a) hue of brown/black of his skin; b) length of his nose; c) flatness of his nose; d) size of his eyes; e) height.  He develops the defense mechanism of telling them a white woman journalist travelling with him is his wife, to throw them off their inquiry.  We see that the black/white dichotomy presented to Americans in things like the noted Coleman report preceding the Brown v. Board decision is not sufficient to explain this micro-classification engaged in by the Africans in relation to each other, encountered by the author.  He asserts that it is a partial explanation for the Rwanda massacre. This is something I had not heard before reading this book.<br />The graft expose is also stunning, as he discusses getting his laptop through airport customs.  It doesn't sound like he's making this up. <br />The scene of him sitting on top of a building in Somalia listening to American rock 'n roll at high volume with U.S. Army guys seems to symbolize how his odyssey through Africa gave him the opportunity to define himself in relation to both that continent and the U.S.  The tension that produced in turn produced this book.  <br />I wouldn't be too quick to condemn him for it, but would see it instead as a kind of V.S. Naipaul-kind of travelogue experience book, not as a threat to anyone else's experiences or viewpoints formed in ways diverging from Richburg's.  But I suspect this level of tolerance for his free expression will not be universal.	2001-02-02
US	52813241	RZFE4BWKQMEQO	080500548X	49773103	The Go-Getter: A Story That Tells You How To Be One	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Don't Think it to Death	This used to be mandatory reading for ServiceMaster employees in the 1970s, and I got my copy from a retiring SM manager in the mid-1980s as he was cleaning out his office.  This was the time when Tom Peters, fresh off his &quot;Excellence&quot; writings, was descending into his &quot;break all the rules&quot; type of exhuberant speechifying, and before &quot;business process reengineering&quot; hit the scene with Dr. Hammer, in suit and horn-rims from MIT.  The Go Getter, by contrast, portrays a simpler, more direct world of business.  You want the job?  Pass this test.<br />You only have one arm because the other one was blown off in WWI? Pass the test.  No ADA type accomodating here, no &quot;norming&quot; of the test.  And the guy does it.  He goes on the wild goose-chase treasure hunt and locates the object defined as his goal: the blue vase.  All to prove he's fit to represent his new employer in Shanghai.<br />After hearing about business in China from a Chinese guy who shared our house in grad school, this seems like a good way to qualify for managing things over there.  You want some guy spouting off about &quot;seeing the future first&quot; and making up slide shows?  Or the relentless one-armed veteran who will stop at nothing to get the job done?  If the job is all about moving lumber down rivers to be stacked and processed, doesn't sound too theoretical to me.<br />So I like this book, and for several years forced summer law student clerks of our firm to read it, to disabuse them of the notion that practicing law is some lazy, sit around and blow air all day type of undertaking.  Don't clients want lawyers who are go getters?  ServiceMaster did.	2001-02-02
US	52813241	R1BJO2ADVMICNB	081662996X	263352899	Listening Point (Fesler-Lampert Minnesota Heritage)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Not Just a Biology Teacher from Minnesota	Sigurd Olson wrote better than most people about the great northwoods covering the area of Canada and the North U.S. between Minnesota, Wisconsin, and the U.P.  His focus was the Lake Superior/Quetico country, and he carefully catalogues everything from the geological substrate, to the soil, to the plants and trees, the animals, the waters, and the canoes he paddles over them.  Open this book and he's the Swedish guy pulling his canoe up on a favorite ledge of rock, taking a carefully measured sip of some brandy, and cooking a few fish to have with some coffee, all the while describing the sky, the traces of various minerals on the rocks, and then turning in for the night.<br />There are many such gentlemen of the North, but it seems like they are hard to get to know.  Olson (typically pictured on his books in a clean crew-cut and pressed Khaki or woolen shirt) does us the courtesy of introducing himself with his measured observations of the country he explored for so many years between time spent teaching biolgy at a community college in Ely, Minnesota.<br />Listening Point was his place to return to from his various travels, and from his usual home in Ely.  He describes both the physical dimensions and actions needed to build it (how big a cabin, which direction to face and why, how the bulldozer made teh road, how certain boulders and trees were moved or destroyed), always with references to the wider dimensions of the North, and the great Cambrian shelf all along the North of Lake Superior.  His style is partly in the mode of the serial &quot;digressions&quot; which fit around a theme, seen in many classical writers (pre-medieval, Roman &amp; Greek).  Paired with the physical descriptions are the theoretical meditations on which modern appliances to have, and which to exclude, for the spiritual  benefit of he and his wife (telephone, no; phonograph, yes).<br />The natural impression from all of this is to want to find your own Listening Point somewhere, or at least to get up to this area to see the things he writes about.  The broader message here is that you don't have to own the places you explore, and the places you adopt as your own, to appreciate the tremendous beauty and stunning scale of our great northwoods.  This is something easy to take for granted for those who live in this part of the U.S.  Actually, there is nothing else in the entire world like our Great Lakes, and the only forest area on the globe comparable to the U.S./Canada Northwoods is an area of Siberia.  That's it.   And this man is an excellent guide to it.  Although limited in his writing to a kind of transcendentalist Thoreau-style of abstruse maybe-theism, Olson's writing nevertheless addresses the spirit with great force.  He achieves a connection with the old Indian belief systems, and reaches congruence with an explicit Christian worldview at least insofar as he expresses great reverence for a creation which dwarfes the hubris of mere man.<br />Interestingly, this book, as well as his others, I find to be more readable when back in the Chicago area, or on trips elsewhere.  When up in those very woods, he's more of a guide to something new to find for yourself, rather than limiting yourself to retracing exactly what he thought while in those woods before his death several decades ago. And he's needed, as these woods fill up with people very unlike the Swedish old-timers with their carefully contained, respectful way of quietly going about their business.	2001-02-01
US	52813241	R2TQXJZWAMX8A0	0312052332	443944659	Democracy for the Few	Books	1	17	126	N	N	Read this if You're Stupid and wish to be Vengefully Stupid	Very Stupid.  Usual left-wing trash pumped out by a guy with a major &quot;I hate America&quot; agenda.  We had to read this guy at Gordon College in freshman political science class, circa 1977.  Back then, he was applauding alleged superiorities of the Chinese health care system relative to the U.S.  (not Taiwan, but the PRC).  Once you enslave your mind to a Marxist class-based critique of society, and convince yourself &quot;business&quot; is demonic, this is what comes out of your pencil.  But read it and be greatly impressed if you wish to waste your mental capacity on a retrogressive rehash of the frustrations of an outdated totalitarian worshipper who now, I seem to recall, subsists in a left wing think tank in Washinton, D.C. (always clinging to &quot;power&quot; centers) scribbling more trash.	2001-02-01
US	52813241	R189QSYA08R5VW	0299036545	542334911	The Story of My Boyhood and Youth	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Dig Harder	The central symbol of Muir's abusive father is the father's decision to become a lay preacher, and thus his determination to study the Bible all day, while dumping all the farm chores on young John.  This puts John at the bottom of a new well, hacking through the rocky ground in search of water.  While the holy father urges him on between inspirational readings.  One wonders if the father was reading of Jesus's encounter with the woman at the well, offering himself as the living water.<br />John concluded it's time to get the heck out of Wisconsin and away from his dad, to roam around the mountains and forests of the great unexplored Western U.S., appreciating the water where God placed it in plain view.<br />Muir's experience of being forced to work like a Calvinist, while his dad sat around like a pietist, presents a juxtaposition which can be applied to other relationships we all come across in our lives.  That, and the lesson that you need not be a perpetual victim of a rotten childhood.  Muir certainly overcame it.	2001-01-31
US	52813241	R32CPFYTT2T9WO	0712617655	13828550	Undiplomatic Memoirs (Century lives & letters)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Fusion of &quot;The Last Emperor&quot; and a gangster movie	The author is a U.S. diplomat assigned to watch things in Korea right around the time of Theodore Roosevelt, and he reports what he sees:  Russian and German spies plying for advantage, and the weak hereditary monarchy of Korea creaking toward collapse in the face of the modern world.<br />Sands gives us some cogent historicism on the origins of the Koreans, Japanese and Chinese, and in general he seems to have accomplished convincing us that as an American diplomat, he can function as the same high level of urbanity and effectiveness as an Englishman.<br />Things get tense, and the Koreans want him to work as a kind of private advisor to the Hereditary loser-class, but Washington has other ideas, and the book ends with Sands departing this fascinating part of the world and wondering aloud what other intriguing assignment he might be able to find next.<br />So what was Korea before the war of North and South in the 1950s; before the Japanese overlords were blown apart by the U.S. in WW II; and before the Japanese overran the place, grabbed all the big houses, built huge industrial businesses, enslaved the locals and raped all the women before that?  This book gets beneath these generalities and overstatements, and gets us part of that anterior answer.	2001-01-24
US	52813241	RGVZNKXHW6P5Z	9996534642	315510237	Anatomy of a Merger: Strategies and Techniques for Negotiating Corporate Acquisitions : A Turbulent Decade for Deals : Anatomy of a Merger Revisited	Books	4	27	27	N	N	Persistent Negotiation Tips	Erasmus said persistence in accomplishing something is more virtuous than just starting something.  This book is Erasmian in that sense, in its insistence that in a business deal &quot;You must actually negotiate.&quot; (p.10).  This is what Freund sets out to model for us.  The deals he uses as examples are very big, as befits a partner with Skadden, Arps, but the principles he lays down are good all the way down to the smallest deal of the kind that occupies most of small-business legal work, too.<br />One of the lessons that stays with me most clearly is Freund's advice on the use of forms in transactions.  Beware the end-point form from the last similar deal, he says, since it may reflect significant concessions, compromises, or omissions of things you may need which were back in the starting point document, but now gone.  The character defect exemplified by the use of the most recent form from the last similar transaction is the &quot;simpl[e] refus[al] to think through the differences in the two deals.&quot; (p.141).<br />The last chapter on role-playing set to a Greek-tragedy style of script is not easy to read, but I like the character names (e.g.,&quot;Sagacity,&quot; &quot;Pistol&quot;).<br />Chapter One on &quot;Negotiating Techniques and Tactics&quot; is excellent.  Next to Freund's admonition that &quot;If you have a client who is a poor negotiator and tends to give away the store, you should try, in gentle but firm fashion, to keep him out of the negotiating room,&quot; (p. 43) I have written the name of the client and the deal where I wish I had been able to do that more effectively.<br />He attacks the same &quot;laziness of mind&quot; that afflicts the parties to the deal, when they think they have arrived at true terms, when they have only assembled fragments.  &quot;Can't businessmen negotiate these matters on their own?  The answer, in most cases, is no.&quot; (p. 50).  This is still good advice 25 years after it was written, and is what I remindmy clients who believe what they see in the press about &quot;we did the deal over the weekend&quot; when the same SEC disclosures of these alleged &quot;weekend&quot; deals run for hundreds of pages, and reflect months of work.  A glance at Bruce Wasserstein's Book, &quot;Big Deal,&quot; reinforces this, in its focus on how law firms navigate the archipelago of federal regulatory agencies for most big merger deals.<br />Non-lawyers may not like this book as much as I do.	2001-01-24
US	52813241	RFIHIYVZJOU0R	0471529427	651720508	Edison: A Life of Invention	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Very Well Done	The author gets ahold of Edison in two ways that struck me as unique: First, by exploring the Edison family's Canadian roots and its non-conformist protestant religious background; and second, by focusing on the intellectual property angle of Edison's work, which explains the journal-keeping and diagramming Edison picked up from his attorneys.<br />Edison's wandering years as a telegraph operator are also explored skilfully, including little known facts such as Edison's near-depature to South America to seek his fortune.	2001-01-18
US	52813241	R2OL8S0DHWXZTL	0070479046	998058348	The Mind Of The Strategist: The Art of Japanese Business	Books	4	6	6	N	N	1% Inspiration; 99% McKinsey	Ohmae wrote this before he left McKinsey, which was before he was passed over for Fred Gluck's job as Chairman of McKinsey, and also before Ohmae got seriously into Japanese reform politics.  According to the bio. on the back, it was back when the author felt compelled to let us know how well-rounded he was, as both a motorcyclist and a clarinetist.  This might be mistaken for typical consulting firm know-it-all hubris, but that would be unfair to Ohmae.  There is an atypical humility and reach to his writing, which may be rooted in his Japanese background.   Friends of mine with whom I have discussed it say this book is turgid and overblown.  I disagree.  It's well worth reading.  <br />Main Points: This book has three (3) main points:<br />   1. The Art of Strategic Thinking is a &quot;combination of analytical method and mental elasticity&quot; (35) and it can be learned.  It certainly doesn't just happen.  What usually does just happen in any organization is &quot;strategic stagnation.&quot; (5) This book's goal is to help develop the &quot;mentality&quot; required to come up with &quot;superior strategic ideas.&quot; (5)<br />   2. Modern Strategic Realities have not changed the classic success formula of 1% inspiration, 99% perspiration.  Creativity works within constraints, and require certain conditions.  These must be understood to make an idea work.<br />   3. Building Successful Strategies.  Implementing strategic progress (a decidedly Western notion ) calls for a company strategy to organize something real (and of course to make money).  This has to exist within a &quot;strategic triangle&quot; of 1) the company itself; 2) customers; and 3) competitors.  All is &quot;Strategy.&quot;<br />         Ohmae's case examples are interesting and refreshingly un-worshipful.  His discussion of key factors for success, and strategies for dealing with competitors are also very well done.  The issue is always this: Do these books help you take decisive action?  Or dothey just furnish you with a vocabulary to retrospectively apply to the decisive action you took anyway?  How this issue is resolved may be a function of how capable you are as the reader of this book, in some realm outside merely reading books.  So success could be reinterpreted as 1% listening to Ohmae, and 99% taking some action on it.<br />Ohmae's other book I have read, The Borderless World, is not as solid as this one, but also reads a lot faster.	2001-01-11
US	52813241	R30WV1P02A9W9C	0404042511	912148335	001: Life of George Washington	Books	5	75	76	N	N	Marshall the Judge as Witness for Washington	This is the only Washington biography written by a contemporary who knew him and served with him in the Army.  Certainly the longest Presidential biography I know of written by a U.S. Supreme Court Justice.  According to Senator Beveridge's later biography of John Marshall, Marshall wrote it in installments, and sold it through the U.S. Post Offic distribution network, to make enough money to pay off his massive Virginia land purchsse which in turn enabled Marshall's children to live out their lives free of the need to write books or make land deals.  And it worked that way.  But that's not all this is.<br />The first entire volume says little about Washington, because Marshall felt he needed to set the stage with a condensed history  of the colonies prior to Washington. Few of Washington's later biographers went to such subsequent introductory lengths, but then Marshall's law practice ended up acquainting him with the early pre-history of the deeds and conveyances of Virginia, the further elaboration of which can be interpreted as enveloping the rest of the colonies.<br />This is also a history of the U.S. Army, and how it fought and starved in successive cycles which are described in minute detail exceeding most other accounts.  Some of this covers organized military campaigns preceding the declaration of independence, the scope of which I had not heretofore realized by undergoing annual waves of pilgrim-study in &quot;My Early Education.&quot;<br />Leading and embodying this story of land and armies, and ideas, Marshall gives us Washington, illuminated most clearly by excerpts from Washington's own letters.  Marshall also gives us Marshall, distilling out of military examples and instances of weak government preceding 1789, potent arguments for increased federal power to do the things our federal government has since done quite well:  raise armies, raise taxes, subdue the Indians, kick out the European powers, build a strong navy, and take no back talk from smallish tyrants resentful of centralized governmental power directly and simultaneously exercised on each citizen, and on each state.<br />When Hamilton wrote that we need &quot;energy in the Executive&quot; he had to have been thinking of Washington, and Marshall catalogs this energy with meticulous documentation of each British officer leading campaigns against us, each subordinate officer on our side under Washinton's command, and how the constant maneuver of armies up and down the length of our seaboard was accomplished--usually without many shoes and without much dry powder.<br />So Marshall knowing Washington probably insulated him from too much disconnected iconography, and his writing is free of modern fixations on negative or unseemly personal or pychographic tidbits of trivia.  Modern readers are left to cling to factual reporting of how Washington handled this British Lord or that recalcitrant congress.<br />There's a lot here in all five volumes, and the flow of the over-written parts isn't that bad once you get used to it.  When one man had such a  central role in all of the key events of our country's founding, and rode out the formation into its institutional phase, thereafter to die in bed at home, Marshall may not have been able to write it any other way than to go over all of the events, to catch the essence of the man.<br />Neat discovery:  LaFayette was only 24 years old while commanding the French at the battle of Yorktown.  Marshall quotes from the letters of Cornwallis (or maybe it was Sir Henry Clinton) who refers to LaFayette as &quot;the boy.&quot;  This is the same boy who later presented Washington with the key to the Bastille, which today hangs on the wall of the stairway of Mount Vernon going up to the second floor.lish tyrants resentful of centralized governmental power directly and simultaneously exercised on each citizen, and on each state.<br />When Hamilton wrote that we need &quot;energy in the Executive&quot; he had to have been thinking of Washington, and Marshall catalogs this energy with meticulous documentation of each British officer leading campaigns against us, each subordinate officer on our side under Washinton's command, and how the constant maneuver of armies up and down the length of our seaboard was accomplished--usually without many shoes and without much dry powder.<br />So Marshall knowing Washington probably insulated him from too much disconnected iconography, and his writing is free of modern fixations on negative or unseemly personal or pychographic tidbits of trivia.  Modern readers are left to cling to factual reporting of how Washington handled this British Lord or that recalcitrant congress.  <br />There's a lot here in all five volumes, and the flow of the over-written parts isn't that bad once you get used to it.  When one man had such a  central role in all of the key events of our country's founding, and rode out the formation into its institutional phase, thereafter to die in bed at home, Marshall may not have been able to write it any other way than to go over all of the events, to catch the essence of the man.<br />Neat discovery:  LaFayette was only 24 years old while commanding the French at the battle of Yorktown.  Marshall quotes from the letters of Cornwallis (or maybe it was Sir Henry Clinton) who refers to LaFayette as &quot;the boy.&quot;  This is the same boy who later presented Washington with the key to the Bastille, which today hangs on the wall of the stairway of Mount Vernon going up to the second floor.	2001-01-09
US	52813241	R8E41A2EIOPDF	0684867176	52388173	Harnessing Complexity: Organizational Implications of a Scientific Frontier	Books	2	3	7	N	N	Self-referentially coherent, yes.	Complexity theory sounds so cool, since it has developed its own unique vocabulary to describe things like plant growth, iterations of patterns in things like tree root systems or mammalian lungs, or long causal chains of actions. There even seems to be a belief system of orthodox Darwinism to supply the \\"Black Box\\" of impulse and explanation to seemingly irreducible complexities, like how one shred of a cell could live apart from the rest of the cell, or how the whole cell could live without each part. Interestingly, these authors bow low to Mr. Darwin (perhaps to stay in communion with the high priests of the Santa Fe Institute) but don't really plug much Darwin into their business and military analyses, which seem full of volition, and free of macro-evolutionary assumptions.<br />So the Darwinism is meta-hooey, but then so is a great deal of macroeconomiics, and management theory. Unlike some complexity writers, these authors do seem to work out a few interesting implications of 1) business managers/leaders not knowing everything; 2) and people not behaving like mathematical averages. Yet they end up affirming the imperative of leaders leading, and people behaving in hard-to-manage ways.<br />Did they need all the science and evolution-speak to draw these conclusions? How are they any different, as they face the technological uncertainties inherent in our own age, from the orthodox puritan capitalist 200 years ago, trying something new with steam cylinders and gears, while referring to his Bible and trusting his God to \\"direct his paths?\\" How to lead a company of workers, and invent new products simultaneously? Look for good people to develop, and for new people with needed skills, I guess. Same thing here with this book.	2001-01-09
US	52813241	R3I6F7RTRDV9YO	157322734X	342794527	Rebuilding the Indian	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Moto Kierkegaard	Is he a frustrated English Major out to write a book no matterwhat?  That's one explanation.  Or perhaps been assigned a writingproject to augment counseling to deal with his end-to-end relationaltroubles with his son-from-first-failed-marriage as well as his ownfather-now-married-again-to-someone-not-the-author's-Mom?  That wouldbe another explanation.  Or is he the tree surgeon overspending on anexpensive hobby he can't really afford?  Yes, yes, and yes.  Thosewould be some author-centric comments, to which must be joined someexplanation of the motorcycle subject (the old Indian) and thedramatic sideshow issues (the types of people whom he encounters alongthe way to rebuilding the old motorcycle, and how commenting on themreveals the author's own story).<br />Here's what strikes me: Just whenyou think Fred has careened down the path of absorbing somelowest-common denominator biker behavior, he mentions having a Latt'ewith someone.  Or having a dinner party at his house for poets andwriters.  Then, from the other end, when he gets into a critique ofhis first failed marriage to a comparatively more-uptight academicwoman, he swings up into the trees with references to his preferencefor hanging out with marginal law-breakers who drink, cuss, and felltrees for a living.  So in the interstices of all of that, he cleverlycatches readers who may be located anywhere within this spectrum ofmotorcycle enthusiasts.<br />For it is the motorcycle person who reallyloves this book.  Anyone who has ever taken apart a lawnmover or amini bike will instinctively identify with the drama of getting theold Indian together and running, along the way meeting the types ofartisans so admired by Robert Pirsig, the author of Zen and the Art ofMotorcycle Maintenance.<br />Fred actually contracts-out a lot of thefabrication and procure ment of the rebuilding work, and this gets himinto the narration of the personality types involved in the process.It's a little like East of Eden as we see the human frailties ondisplay, from low-down ripoff artists, to wannabe aritsans who may bebetter than Fred, but not as good as iconic perfectionists whom Fredalso meets, or hears about.<br />I can't adequately capture his grasp ofpeople, because his language skills far outstrip mine.  I especiallylike the use of the word &quot;brio&quot; to describe the way one guykick-starts his bike.  What he does accomplish very well is anarration of how he fits into his own future, compared to how otherpeople are doing, and how he reconciles himself with his past, andartifacts from it (like his two kids from his first marriage).  Theway he succeeds with the Indian then becomes incidental to the way hesucceeds, or finds some hope of succeeding, in reconciling his pastand building his future.  So it's a better ending than thelater-edition of &quot;Zen,&quot; in which Pirsig has to inform usthat his own son was stabbed to death in San Francisco--cutting shortthe father-son theme that Fred also covers.  I hope Fred and Kyle getmore time together.<br />It's Kierkegaardian, because it's so intenselyintrospective.  But it's not, because Fred avoids the preachiness andperfectionism with which Kierkegaard tortures himself and his readers.Where is Fred headed beyond himself?  We're not sure.  Is he moreprepared for the road ahead as a result of his Inidan project?  Itseems so.<br />Favorite scene: Fred deciding to finish mowing the lawnwith a busted mower that has just spit out half of the inner bladehousing, as the mover gyrates wildly and the neighbors look on.  Proofof the non-perfectionist streak that could have wrecked this book, ifFred had just given us a non-stop lecture about how perfect hisrestoration of the Indian had gone.<br />I flew through this book in aday.  Then gave it to a friend.  He read 60 pages on his way to theairport and sitting on the runway on the way out of town, calling mefrom the plane to discuss it.  But then he also has a bike.  <br />Error:Fred describes the same rider in two places as wearing first,motocross pants; and second, riding breeches.  But don't let this stopyou from getting the book...	2001-01-04
US	52813241	R2CPQRWTGA7IJG	0618055126	866259819	On the Manner of Negotiating with Princes: From Sovereigns to CEOs, Envoys to Executives -- Classic Principles of Diplomacy and the Art of Negotiation	Books	3	2	9	N	N	The Lawyer as Business Prince	Charles Handy resurrected this book not, as he intended to show something about business management directly, but actually--and perhaps insensibly to Handy--to explain some of the practices and habits which help lawyers for businesses work with other lawyers for business adversaries.  For what could be more princely than a lawyer?  Lawyers are begotten (not created) by their clients, just as princes issue from kings.  And lawyers, like diplomats, have limited authority.  Also like princes.  So diplomat-to-prince as explained by De Callieres fits passably into lawyer-to-lawyer contests of wit and threatening.<br />I bought this book as a kind of cathartic release when in the middle of dealing with a difficult opposing lawyer (whose clients are true blue business and even political princelings), and commenced reading, looking for appropriate thoughts and phrases to describe the complete jerk/idiot/moron masquerading as an attorney at law with whom I was dealing.  Or was it his client?  How could I work on becoming more of the type of lawyer able &quot;to produce peace by the authority of their intervention?&quot; (page 11).    It would take a willingness on my part to &quot;sometimes consent to meet smaller men on their own ground.&quot; (p.21).    Because bigger people, like judges (even bailiffs) will be watching, and &quot;one negotiation successfully carried through by the honesty and high intelligence of a diplomatist will give him a great advantage in other enterprises on which he embarks in the future.&quot; (p.22).<br />Yet de Callieres might quarrel with my easy equivalence between lawyers and diplomats.  Because he disagrees: &quot;...in general the training of a lawyer breeds habits and dispositions of mind which are not favorable to the practice of diplomacy.&quot; (p. 40).  This is because (and here we give the obligatory pass-the-intern wink at the President) &quot;the occupation of the lawyer, which is to split hairs about nothing, is not a good preparation for the treatment of grave public affairs in the region of diplomacy.&quot; (Id.)  The author would prefer more men-of-the-world than mere lawyers, to engage foreign princes in the business of war and peace, as well as buying and selling.  I just disagree with him on this point.<br />On the more business-ish topics of &quot;the value of good cheer&quot; (p.89), being a good listener (p.91), the importance of first impressions (p. 93), and the importance of good staff people, this book has good points of general applicability.  I keep coming back to the lawsuit as the best application for this advice on how to deal with contested issues between states; but unlike international law, in a lawsuit we have a judge with authority and with the power to render finality to a dispute.  So I add a less open-ended interpretation to what the author arguably intended.<br />One good piece of advice for dealing with the finalizing force of a judge is found in the author's advice about giving reports to your king.  Do not &quot;set the King's teeth on edge&quot; with overly biting, contentious presentations.  Like Kings, judges are not dispensers of decisions into which we put briefs and witnesses like so many little tokens before pushing the buttons or pulling the lever (maybe we could use a bowling analogy if I could get it to work less clumsily) to extract the automatic ruling.  The inhumanity and callousness of this approach is rightly discouraged by de Callieres.<br />How then do we explain the success of obnoxious appellate attorneys who pull success from tiny little technicalities flung in the face of trial courts?  However we explain it, it seems clear that legal work at that appellate level is no longer quite so diplomatic as the negotiated resolution of problems more akin to most commercial legal work.  But all out war is not the topic of this book.  <br />Now, if I'm coming down to the smallish level of my current adversary, listening tactfully to him spout all-out destruction for my client, has this book helped me?  This will remain an open question, but it has been an interesting diversion.  The cover art is also quite cool, and helps make my bookshelves more imposing.  First impressions, you see.	2000-10-23
US	52813241	R1XL631XGMT7JK	0671454951	50678369	FDR: A Biography	Books	5	31	37	N	N	This is the One	FDR is a frustrating figure, in my opinion, because he was so big, and so transformative a leader (to pin James MacGregor Burns's taxonomy of leadership onto him) that every other biography of him I have seen has become reduced to simply the author's bias and idiosyncratic interpretation of him.  Some little twerp laboring over a PhD thesis for 10 years gives us a whole book on FDR and the Supreme Court, or FDR and public works, or FDR and WW II.  Boring.<br />Which is where this one comes in.  I bought it more than 15 years ago, but never really read it until last year.  Before then, I  was only interested in &quot;proof texting&quot; FDR to basically show what a socialist bad guy he was, a poor comparative reflection of cousin Theodore.  In this sense, too-high a view of Theodore dooms FDR to second-best.  Then I read Churchill's 6 Vol. history of WW II, and through that lens saw a very compelling FDR, one big enough to &quot;run&quot; Churchill.  And Churchill makes it clear in his history why it was utterly impossible for the West to save Eastern and Central Europe from the Russians.  Explaining this take on things drops the charges against FDR so long-brought by the John Birchers--that somehow he gave away the world to the communists.<br />Ted Morgan gets deep into this, but by way of Roosevelt's childhood and familial relations, focusing on Franklin's impossible mother--the root of his famous evasiveness, says Morgan.  Then on into minor politics after a little Harvard; a glimpse of some adultery, and then polio.  The adultery is interesting, because compared to someone like Bill Clinton, FDR's sounds quite focused, or even traditional--his Lucy Mercer of Pre-Presidency fame stays in the picture, and is in the room with him 4 terms later when he has his stroke after going thru the morning's mail at the resort in Georgia he had purchased (in pale, or maybe non-pale imitation of Teddie's purchase of the badlands ranch--both places of rehabilitation for each Roosevelt).<br />And although Eleanor may have played house in a cottage behind Franklin's Mom's ancestral property, with a few lesbian friends, she, too is a sympathetic figure, putting up with Franklin, then becoming his functional nurse, and raising their children in the scant time left after working on the ills of the rest of the world.  Something like Hillary with more empathy, or substance.  How about Hillary minus the switchblade?<br />Somewhere in all of the polio and then political battle, FDR decided to be great; and this seems to have translated, as the story unfolds through Morgan, into a similar decision to make the United States great, and dominant.  Doing this while paralyzed from the waist down, and while taking time to &quot;stick it&quot; to old foes in the New York State government throughout his presidency, induces a kind of involuntary admiration which lets me see how people like Bill Clinton are so drawn to the FDR memory, and how they seek to replay FDR's utter commitment to the moment and the audience.  Compared to a Clinton, the multimillionaire Dutchman from upstate New York paradoxically had a lot less to prove, but yet accomplished so much more.<br />So after a long time admiring Teddy and dumping on Frank, this book makes it clear to me that although an FDR without the preexisting Teddy would not have been possible, FDR very arguably accomplished a great deal more than TR.  As recent, more critical biographers of Teddy explain (H.W. Brands, TR: The Last Romantic), Teddy sort of fanatacized-out during his third party phase, maybe paralleling Winston Churchill's father's flame-out--an interesting common point which may have given these two leaders in their wartime phase the ability to compromise and survive, when it would be easier to lecture and purify (and get tossed out).<br />Thus the connection with the mess of the war, and part of the explanation for us coming out on top (in spite of FDR's child like view of India, and some-said-strangecourting of Ibn Saud).  If these actions were designed to take adavntage not only of Germany's destruction, but also of England's slide, then FDR succeeded.  Maybe Churchill would call him another Marlborough, had he been related, due to this balance of power maneuvering.  But maybe FDR didn't intend it that way at all, if he was more a tool of providence mingled in with great effort (kind of an Augustinian view of political success).<br />In summary, I'm not as hacked off as I used to be when I see FDR's face on our dimes, after reading this book.  It's OK with me now if stays right there.  He puts a better human face on our money than a stylized Mercury-head yanked from mythology.  And that's what this author has also done for me.<br />One thing I'd like to see a future historian look into:  Campobello Island, the family's version of the Kennedy compound, is actually in Canadian territorial water (so I'm told).  What relationship did this have to the Roosevelt family import fortune of glass and hardware back in the 1700s and 1800s?  Was there a tax avoidance or illegality angle, like the Forbes family, the Bronfmans of Canada (See Peter Newman's book &quot;Bronfman Dynasty&quot; on that), and the Kennedys?  That would complete the economic substrate of our knowledge of this family, long since passed, it seems, into fashionable senescense. And sure, all families seem to decline; but few leave behind such great men.<br />Which gets us back to the pack of FDR authors.  They're everywhere, some of their books skinny, some quite fat.  But this one really stands out.  I highly recommend it.courting of Ibn Saud).  If these actions were designed to take adavntage not only of Germany's destruction, but also of England's slide, then FDR succeeded.  Maybe Churchill would call him another Marlborough, had he been related, due to this balance of power maneuvering.  But maybe FDR didn't intend it that way at all, if he was more a tool of providence mingled in with great effort (kind of an Augustinian view of political success).<br />In summary, I'm not as hacked off as I used to be when I see FDR's face on our dimes, after reading this book.  It's OK with me now if stays right there.  He puts a better human face on our money than a stylized Mercury-head yanked from mythology.  And that's what this author has also done for me.<br />One thing I'd like to see a future historian look into:  Campobello Island, the family's version of the Kennedy compound, is actually in Canadian territorial water (so I'm told).  What relationship did this have to the Roosevelt family import fortune of glass and hardware back in the 1700s and 1800s?  Was there a tax avoidance or illegality angle, like the Forbes family, the Bronfmans of Canada (See Peter Newman's book &quot;Bronfman Dynasty&quot; on that), and the Kennedys?   That would complete the economic substrate of our knowledge of this family, long since passed, it seems, into fashionable senescense. And sure, all families seem to decline; but few leave behind such great men. <br />Which gets us back to the pack of FDR authors.  They're everywhere, some of their books skinny, some quite fat.  But this one really stands out.  I highly recommend it.	2000-10-17
US	52813241	RXMKHLDLJ0CPP	0316316962	226933679	The Tipping Point: How Little Things Can Make a Big Difference	Books	4	2	6	N	N	Stay Up Late and Talk as Fast as You Can	And if all the right TV shows have come on, the moon is full, the window is open and you can hear the waves of the ocean crashing against the stone wall of your house up on the cliff, you and the rest of your late-night wasted college friends can stitch together in riotous tropes and serial monologues, all of the intro-course sociology, psychology, marketing and speculative philospohy you can remember, in between chugging contests with enormous cans of Foster's.  But you will have to be sharp, indeed, yet hyper-adaptive and fluid of speech, to hit the level of chattiness exemplified by Gladwell in this very interesting book.<br />In the morning you will remember one or two examples of unusual insights, and they may stay with you for years afterward.<br />Then you will move on with your life, oddly reassured that Gladwell has shown you the possibilities--but also the limits--of how to string together fragments of learning into a powerful affirmation of authoritarianism and coercion in the administration of the media, government, and business.  <br />So Gladwell is a kind of gnostic decoder of how we are directed in our lives, and he cleverly explains it without taking sides in the moral drama beneath it all, which is where a V.I. Lenin would be operating today, asking the question:  &quot;Who is Tipping Whom?&quot;<br />Gladwell is very gifted, smarter than most of your friends in college.  And less obnoxious.  You can read this in about 2 days between other things.	2000-10-13
US	52813241	R3HO6O6L2Z2H2B	1572460733	94602519	The Law	Books	5	34	39	N	Y	Negative Rights Positively Explained	Does the government take care of you by making sure you are left free from interference by others?  Or does it give form and substance to your freedom by making sure you are given, by the government, enough Maslowian scaffolding to get you within jumping distance of the last triangle of self-actualization at the top of the pyramid of your desires?  That's always the question.  I'd be free if only someone would pay off my mortgage, or do my homework, or abort my inconvenient child for me.  Here in this book is a very good template to evaluate these alternative viewpoints, especially appropriate for smart high school kids, since it furnishes ammunition to carry them through most of the garbage they will find littered in their books, written on their classroom walls, and mincingly elaborated by their discontented, yet strangely power-hungry liberal law professors, all of whom will basically insist on refuting the truth of what Bastiat identifies as the central fact of state power: That the government is \\"not a breast that fills itself with milk.\\"  High school boys especially like that part.  Yet this is what so many people think--and Keynes even monkeyed together some funny looking math to show how dollars taxed away and then re-spent by the government become supercharged, and are better for the economy than un-taxed and un-respent dollars held privately.  Here is where he meets our Founding generation--all of whom saw how dangerous it was to cede too much function to any government, which of course would need more and more money to fund these activities.  Am I straying from the point?  No.  Just look at our political contests:  craven beg-fests for votes based on what the government can spend on you, or how the internet will bring it all \\"closer\\" to you.  For your benefit.  And if someone wants to take less from people in the first place, that's \\"spending [by the government] on the richest 1%\\"--who of course have had much more taken from them to begin with.  Bastiat explains, in universal terms not hinged to any particular group of pilgrims, kings, or communists, how the law is enlisted in the plunder of the many by the few who control the law, and how law must be continually twisted into unjust forms to keep up the subsidies, the taxes, the programs, all designed to treat the same population differently.  His greatest example, though, is to contrast liberty with the perversion of law, (and here he partakes in some cultural non-relativism) by using the image of a tribe of natives who flatten the noses, pierce the ears and lips, bend-up the feet, and depress the foreheads of their newborns, insisting these are signs of beauty.  The same thing is done to our laws and our liberty by the socialist plunderers, according to Bastiat, unforgettably according to Bastiat.  Would the next generation of any country be more or less likely to make a world-and-life-view out of sucking up to government employees for their prescription drugs, family planning, education, utility bill assistance, or internet domain monopolies if they read this book in time to become immune to the excuse-making and false moralizing of socialism?  So do we put the govenment in charge of our kids, our sick grandparents, and our businesses, so we can finally be more \\"free?\\"  You read Bastiat and be the judge.xplains, in universal terms not hinged to any particular group of pilgrims, kings, or communists, how the law is enlisted in the plunder of the many by the few who control the law, and how law must be continually twisted into unjust forms to keep up the subsidies, the taxes, the programs, all designed to treat the same population differently.  His greatest example, though, is to contrast liberty with the perversion of law, (and here he partakes in some cultural non-relativism) by using the image of a tribe of natives who flatten the noses, pierce the ears and lips, bend-up the feet, and depress the foreheads of their newborns, insisting these are signs of beauty.  The same thing is done to our laws and our liberty by the socialist plunderers, according to Bastiat, unforgettably according to Bastiat.  Would the next generation of any country be more or less likely to make a world-and-life-view out of sucking up to government employees for their prescription drugs, family planning, education, utility bill assistance, or internet domain monopolies if they read this book in time to become immune to the excuse-making and false moralizing of socialism?  So do we put the govenment in charge of our kids, our sick grandparents, and our businesses, so we can finally be more \\"free?\\"  You read Bastiat and be the judge.	2000-10-05
US	52813241	R42ZJZMKH3340	0671454153	375395163	The CHAIRMAN: JOHN J MCCLOY & THE MAKING OF THE AMERICAN ESTABLISHMENT	Books	5	19	22	N	N	Modern Europe Decoded	As a lawyer, it's gratifying to see that a fellow lawyer, John McCloy, had such a key role in putting together post-WW II Europe, and it challenges my anti-FDR leanings to read this book, since McCloy was mainly a tool of FDR.   Even though he was a Republican.  Mr. Bird chronicles McCloy's life  starting from humble New York beginnings, and establishes that you must  understand the New York investment houses, the law firms they fed and  controlled, and the European investments of those New Yorkers, to  understand Mc Cloy.  By the end of the book, we do.<br />Bird has the gift of  not saying too much, but telling you a lot.  McCloy's dad dies, then his  mom (hairdresser to the rich) keeps him in contact with Rockefellers and  the like, and thru lots of hard work and sacrifice, she sees that John  makes it into the exclusive schools with the same upper-crust people.  He  then becomes a lawyer, and does the dirty work for the unscrupulous bond  salesmen who use the public's unsecured money to pay back the priority  lenders to doomed projects, mainly railroads, before those same creditors  send in the lawyers to repo the assets, and sell them to contolled  companies which sell them again.  This is all pre-New Deal, pre-SEC.  Mc  Cloy gets good at it and his skill at tennis leads him to play hard-ball on  the tennis courts, as well as in the law courts, with big money NY types,  which makes McCloy attractive to the law firms feeding off of the  investment houses.  At this point, a useful companion book to read would be  Robert Sobel's history of the Dillon, Read investment house, which goes  into more detail.<br />McCloy ends up being detailed to the federal gov't  during WW I and becomes an intelligence expert, and then has a key part in  forming what becomes the CIA.  He stays connected with the CIA for the rest  of his life, while pinging and ponging out of the gov't, mainly on  &quot;commissions&quot; and &quot;panels&quot; and he also gets tied up  with the Councilon Foreign Relations, which Bird convincingly describes as  very powerful in its day.<br />McCloy's career peaks when FDR appoints him to  be high commissioner for post-WW II Germany, with plenary, Caesar-like  powers, which McCloy exercises tactfully and with restraint.  While also  playing lots of tennis.  This section of the book is very gripping, as Bird  unwinds the CIA's role in funding anti-Soviet left-wing intellectuals to  counter Soviet propaganda, and to make sure Germany does not intrepidly  rush to unify too soon--before the die-hard old Nazi's of Germany's  industrial establishment are neutralized by the passage of a  generation.<br />The European Community is also convincingly penetrated, below  the acronyms and meetings which symbolize it for most contemporary  students.  Bird details how McCloy dealt with the treaties forming the EC,  and how insuring Germany's non-reunification fit with putting other  countries intot he coal and steel industries which Germany would need to  becomea  credible threat again.<br />In this reading, the awfulness of  Germany, and the threat of revanchement, is what drove the cold war, not  just anti-Soviet inexorabilities of history. In leading the effort at such  a key time, McCloy's sportsmanship, learning, connections, and toughness  were all needed.  Bird suggests where and how McCloy developed each of  these qualities, and how the old &quot;Establishment&quot; in America  operated through these high quality servants of the amassed wealth of the  Eastern types who then utilized WW II to launch America as the ruler of the  economic world for the next 50 years.  Quite an achievement, considering  they could have just sat around Bar Harbor instead, wasting the talents of  the acolyte class of McCloys on sailboat lessons and hair-do's for their  wives and children.<br />Leaving us with the issue of what type of Americans  will be called on to get us through whatever convulsions are left, now that  George H.W. Bush and James Baker III steered us through the definitive  collapse of Russian Communism.  In this light, should we be glad or sad  that the Arkansas contingent looks like they will miss the coming  convulsion of Chinese communism?	2000-07-14
US	52813241	R320DFR085IB3U	0395938880	122125989	Absolute Zero: And the Conquest of Cold	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Great Beach Reading	This is a good book to read to clear your head of non-science, particularly if you are not a scientist.  It achieves the goal of the Sloan Foundation funding, which is to popularize science by disconnecting it from the diagrams and equations that some of the other reviewers here are  lamenting the absence of.  Well, that's what made it so readable for me.  I  like science but not math.  At least not sciency-math.  We learn from this  book that it is the businessmen who have fueled applied cold research, and  many people who also are ignorant of math have benefitted from the  resulting frozen food industry and from air conditioning.  All products of  the very deliberate conquest of Thule, very engagingly explained by the  author.  This book reminds me of how appropriate the chief guy (what's his  name, &quot;Lee&quot;?  Anyway, the guy who won't let you chew gum in the  airport there) in Singapore's comments were in the Wall Street Journal,  when they asked a cross section of famous people what the greatest  invention of the last millenium has been.  His reply: &quot;Air  conditioning.&quot; It all makes sense when you read this on the beach,  before heading to your air conditioned condo, or to your air conditioned  car, to get your keys to go get pre-cooled cokes from the refrigerator unit  at the air conditioned 7-11, right next to the Slurpee machine and the  little display of fresh fruit.  I agree with some of the reviews that the  book is a little disjointed, but offer that this in turn illuminates some  of the idiosyncracies of several key scientists who would, for example,  devote 15 years to trying to boil helium.  Whatever you do for a living,  compared to that, seems like a breeze.  A cool breeze.  Which you can feel  without quantifying via incomprehensible, gnostic and exlusivist equations  whose chief function is to blur this science beyond comprehensibility for  long-winded reviewers like me.	2000-04-04
US	52813241	RFHB16LBE92RC	0195073460	768553717	The Joyless Economy: The Psychology of Human Satisfaction	Books	1	14	64	N	N	Euro-blah blah blah	I read this in a comparative economics class at Hope College back when Jimmy Carter was President, and it was &quot;in&quot; to deride the U.S. as suffering from too much over-psychologized materialism, the cure for which  was to read this book to see how much happier we would be if we switched  paradigms to a slower paced, more natural, Euro-way of doing socialism,  which would include more frequent trips to the market to buy bread without  preservatives, taking fewer showers to conserve water, and waking up later,  taking longer lunches, and staying up all night drinking cappucino with  interesting people.  In short, more like then-&quot;third way&quot;  Yugoslavia.  What happened to Yugoslavia, and who has subsequently had to  go clean the place out, is a metaphor for how the preachings of this book  have turned out to fit with reality.  What a relief to see that the current  generation of college econ students seem to have totally rejected this type  of over-phsychologized incoherent &quot;economics&quot; and have instead  pursued business careers while simultaneoudsy waking up late, and staying  up all night drinking cappucino with interesting people.  Lunch can take  all day, too.  So Tibor got some of it right but most of it wrong.  Ronald  Reagan got more of it right, but partisans of the left will never admit it.   So read this book if your 60's reject professor forces you to, but  challenge the paradigm of Veblenesque, dead-to-the-market stupidity which  masquerades for &quot;economics&quot; in this book.  I still hate thinking  about it 20 years after reading it!	2000-04-04
US	52813241	R3TQ65307K2WYM	0471353574	474529858	Germany, Inc.: The New German Juggernaut and Its Challenge to World Business	Books	4	6	7	N	N	And While You're at it, Jurgen, Change the Oil	You can tell the author is a business magazine writer, and that each chapter is a vast expansion of a more crunched down version of what would normally be an article in, for example, Forbes or Business Week.  I'm not  sure the typology into which the book divides types of big German  businesses really works (e.g., &quot;Anti-comglomerate,&quot;  &quot;Pivots&quot;) but then Teutonic writers have always over-stressed  forced classifications.  Read Spengler if you don't believe this.  Unlike  Spengler, however (but yet eerily echoing Spengler's theme of &quot;The  Decline of the West&quot;) this book is easy to read, and rewards even a  distracted skimmer with great informatin housed in biographical digressions  focusing on current leaders of distinguished German companies.  We learn  that Thomas Middelhof from Bertelsman wrote his PhD on the internet in  1985, which seems to give him more credibility to be tangling with AOL.  We  are told that Jurgen Shrempp actually knows how to tear down and reassemble  a truck engine, having dropped out of school and become a mechanic before  he got in touch with his inner taskmaster and went to engineering school.   No other chief of a big auto company can do this.  This reminds me of how  the computer companies fit here.  Who's the better leader for Apple?  The  guy who made them in his garage, or the guy from Pepsi  who writes  autobiographies focusing on how his wife like to stay in Connecticut while  he, John Scully, takes a break from selling sugar water in order to  &quot;change the world&quot;?  So we learn of clever and practical Germans,  with tons of money, expanding into the post-Cold war business culture of  &quot;America&quot; and with the refreshing admission that the more  American you are, the better you business is.  This is a sea change from  the viewpoint of American academic pretentions from the 1980s (my time in  college), who stressed the superiority of things European, and downgraded  American habits and practices as unduly &quot;puritan&quot; (i.e.,  hard-working) and too obsessed with &quot;progress&quot; to appreciate the  finer points of life, to be found  in more continental patterns of things  like more frequent trips to open-air markets, and taking 3 hour lunches.   Read Tibor Scitovsky's &quot;The Joyless Society&quot; to see my point.   And Rollo May.  And bob Goudzwaard (Dutch interloper, but with plenty of  anti-American opinions).  Compared to this, these Germans profiled here are  portrayed as so many Rodney Dangerfields from &quot;Back to School&quot;  who buy their way into old institutions, and along the way spice things up  for everyone else who is just slogging through.  Still, you have to wonder  what was in it for Chrysler to get eaten by the ambitious Daimler, driven  by the truck mechanic.  You will also learn what the intials  &quot;AUDI&quot; stand for, and how Porsche and Pietche fit together.  The  portrait of Alfred Krupp may be too sympathetic, compared to the treatment  by Kai Bird in his book &quot;The Chariman.&quot;  But this author does  certainly probe into the Nazi antecedents of some companies, or more  accurately Nazi interregnums of many of them.  IG Farben is explained very  succinctly (not easy to do) as is the dominance of Deutsche Bank. We'll see  if the Germans are any better than the Japanese at hiring and working with  people who are not like them.  The book makes them sound pretty  exclusivist, and Daimler's annual report certainly looks like the typical  group of &quot;white guys&quot; who may find it hard to identify with the  America that is quite a bit more complicated than a truck engine.	2000-04-04
US	52813241	R1W73DH1IL7V7C	0066619971	14710670	Consulting Demons: Inside the Unscrupulous World of Global Corporate Consulting	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Get Beneath the Surface	I agree with most of the other reviews, good and bad, and especially recommend the little insets profiling demonological summaries--which perfectly mimic the little insets used by consultants in their web sites,  magazine articles, and catchy pamplets.  The recounting by Pinault of  studying his brains out to quickly master steel production techniques so he  can stand in for a feckless no-show superior at an industry seminar is  well-told, and the comparison he makes to hearing himself expurgate some  satanic-sounding speaking-in-tongues experience accomplishes an  image-casting overstatement that rings very true, when you think about all  of the consultant-speak filling the air around us.  I will never look at an  accounting firm's audit letter the same way, especially the little section  full of &quot;recommendations&quot; touting their latest firm craze,  usually the result of the &quot;significant transformation&quot; they have  magically achieved and will now resell so we can stay out of accounting  jail.  The other character portrayed very well is the senior partner with  the Wyoming vacation home--another icon-like character we have all met,  whose life is as empty as Pinault's.  One question: who really cares about  Pinault's interest in &quot;space law&quot;?  That part sounds like an  admixture of &quot;Johnny Rocket&quot; and the &quot;Power Puff  Girls.&quot;  Maybe he gets the last laugh, though, if he can bill himself  out to NASA and still lay hold of his allegedly normalized life now.  So  it's a modern tale of redemption.  I can't recall if there are explicit  Faust analogies in the book--I was reading it too late at night in my  libary, wishing I were smarter........	2000-03-17
