US	52818926	R1ZRBN8XHAD3P1	0446678791	287153728	Free Agent Nation: The Future of Working for Yourself	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A how-it-is, not a how-to	What this book isn't:  (1) a guide to how to succeed as a free agent, (2) an objective, scientific study of self-employed workers, or (3) a statistical analysis of social trends. <br /> <br />Dan Pink simply did what he set out to do:  interview lots of people who work as \\"free agents,\\" find out how and why they chose this way of working (or how it chose them) and how it's played out for them, and draw some general conclusions.  He remarked, at a booksigning I attended, that he found his informal survey \\"inspiring\\" because he met so many enterprising and creative self-employed people, and his enthusiasm comes through strongly.  But this isn't a simplistic, rah-rah book;  he's frank about the pitfalls and drawbacks of self-employment, and his chapter on temp workers, while brief, is a good overview of their dubious situation. <br /> <br />I don't agree with all of his opinions, but I think that his main point is dead on:  The \\"organization man\\" world of paternalistic corporations and loyal drones is dead.  In fact, we all work for ourselves;  while this insight may be unsettling to some, not only does \\"free agency\\" offer greater opportunities for meaningful work, but it's closer to the way \\"work\\" has historically been performed. <br /> <br />Having been a free agent myself for most of my working life, I strongly agree that the infrastructure needs to adapt.  Although there have been great improvements in the tax code, the insurance business, and individual retirement plans in the past 20 years, they're still tailored to either (1) full-time employees who are paid a fixed salary with benefits, or (2) those who work on commission.  So I applaud this book for bringing these issues more into public awareness, and thus helping to stimulate further change.	2005-10-12
US	52818926	R11H573H3OGRDG	0609609912	529996899	Leaving the Saints: How I Lost the Mormons and Found My Faith	Books	4	29	47	N	N	I'm convinced	Although Martha Beck's tendency to self-dramatize was sometimes annoying, in general I found this book powerful and convincing.  It's easy to dismiss her allegations of childhood abuse as False Memory Syndrome, but two points argue against this:  (1) she recovered her memories spontaneously before she ever saw a therapist, and (2) she has medical evidence to corroborate them.  (It's interesting that, although her ex-husband has challenged her memory of some events -- which isn't surprising, as they happened over a dozen years ago, and, given how their paths have diverged, it's likelier that he remembers the positive parts and she the negative -- he doesn't deny that she was abused.) <br /> <br />As for her comments on the Mormon Church, I know a number of former Mormons, and, based on their recollections as well as hers, I've concluded that it really *is* that weird.  Most major world religions today are huge, elaborate edifices of dogma, ceremonial, and bureaucracy that bear about as much relationship to their founder's original vision as (say) St. Peter's bears to a stable in Bethlehem;  but the original vision was something simple,  straightforward, and resonant.  By contrast, the Mormon faith is based on the writings of a single founder who, it's apparent, simply made up most of it.  On this shaky foundation, the Mormons built not only a religion but a considerable financial and political structure.  So it's hardly surprising that, when one of the cornerstones (The Pearl of Great Price) is proven to be made of thin air, the thought control police swing into action lest the whole structure begin to totter.  This book well expresses the painful dilemma of devout Mormons who are torn between the demands of their church (with all the family and personal obligations it involves) and their knowledge that there are holes in the foundations, so I feel that it's valuable reading for that reason alone.	2005-10-12
US	52818926	R827URNH8EUH8	0743250079	682726644	109 East Palace: Robert Oppenheimer and the Secret City of Los Alamos	Books	5	60	61	N	N	The human dynamics of the Manhattan Project	Ten years ago, I taught part-time at the University of New Mexico's small Los Alamos campus.  One day a huge thunderstorm marooned me in the lobby of the building along with a cheerful elderly woman who, I soon learned, had come to Los Alamos as a WAC to work on the Manhattan Project.  For the next half-hour, I heard her fascinating stories about the laboratory and the community during the early years.  When the rain finally stopped and we parted, I reflected that, although the scientific aspects of the project had been amply documented, there was another human story still waiting to be written. <br /> <br />I'm glad that Jennet Conant has written that story.  Besides having an \\"inside track\\" through her grandfather's involvement in the Manhattan Project, she was able to access Dorothy McKibbin's memoirs, and she also makes good use of other unpublished materials as well as interviewing the people involved.  This isn't a scientific account of the project, it's the story of the people behind it: from the unlikely team of Oppenheimer and Gen. Groves, to the locals who worked as maids and construction workers in the secret community on the hill -- and Dorothy, who held it all together, and whose story is used to structure the book. <br /> <br />Bringing together a motley collection of physicists, engineers, and military experts to construct \\"the Gadget\\" was impressive enough -- but the project didn't exist in a vacuum.  The technical staff were people who had to be housed, fed, and clothed, and many of them brought families and children whose needs had to be accommodated too.  As director, Oppenheimer had to deal with both the scientific and the personal aspects of the project, and this book well describes the human dynamics that he contended with on both fronts.  It's gossipy, just like my ex-WAC acquaintance, but it's an enthralling story.  And when Dorothy, like the other locals, finally comes to realize what the project was all about, the author well conveys theirambivalence:  upon viewing the blast from Sandia Peak, Dorothy reflects, \\"Everything had changed.\\" <br /> <br />The book is an easy read, but it's by no means lightweight, and I recommend it highly as a necessary supplement to the many good \\"scientific\\" books on the Manhattan Project.	2005-10-07
US	52818926	RBXAAA7BJ2U3	1573223085	396856567	A Whole New Mind: Moving from the Information Age to the Conceptual Age	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Food for thought	Where the big issues are concerned -- how to revitalize the U.S. economy in the age of outsourcing, why isn't our educational system working and how do we go about fixing it, etc. -- I've always felt that it was more important to raise the right questions than to come up with quick answers.  By that standard, this book is a winner.  I think most of us would agree that the world of work (on the personal as well as the national level) has changed radically in the last 20 years.  It's not a major logical leap to conclude that, rather than choosing to cultivate the skills and abilities that led to success in the \\"information age,\\" we should broaden our range.  It's possible to argue with the author's list of \\"six senses,\\" but they're suggestions rather than prescriptions.  (Nor are they touchy-feely nonsense removed from the practical world:  the concept of \\"story,\\" for example, is something that every spin doctor understands.)  His personal anecdote about the drawing class has immense implications:  we view the world (physical and mental) through a fog of preconceptions, and the ability to see what is REALLY there is crucial.  I felt that the book wasn't as coherent and focused as his earlier one, but it's thought-provoking and stimulating -- and a good read, too.	2005-09-13
US	52818926	R1KPOJJ25JNDUK	006075690X	287349314	The Flight of the Creative Class: The New Global Competition for Talent	Books	5	50	59	N	N	A hopeful vision for the future	RF has written an excellent followup to his first book.  His concept that the U.S. is suffering a \\"brain drain\\" has been discussed pretty thoroughly by other reviewers, so I won't rehash it, other than to say that I think he's right on the button.  The title, in fact, reflects only part of the story:  what I found most stimulating about the book is his suggestions for the future. <br /> <br />I think that his recommendations about education are excellent.  He does NOT say that a college education is a necessary prerequisite for prosperity;  rather, he points out that the present U.S. educational system doesn't foster (and indeed squelches) the creativity, flexibility, and initiative that students need to succeed in today's volatile economy. While training a nation of workplace drones and mindless consumers might have been expedient in the age of large factories, it's counterproductive today and represents an immense waste of human abilities, especially if we're losing the influx of immigrant talent and ambition that has fueled our economy up to now.  (Current educational reforms, e.g., No Student Left Behind, are a step backwards in their focus on rote memorization and standardized tests;  the aim appears to be to create easily measurable results to make a political point.) <br /> <br />It's noteworthy that RF doesn't take sides politically:  while he bewails the political climate that has led to the \\"flight of the creative class,\\" he also deplores the increased polarization of the major parties, which has more to do with Washington power politics than with voters' actual beliefs.  (He's right about that:  it's a pity that the \\"purple America\\" map from the 2004 election reproduced so poorly in the book, because it makes the important point that we're not nearly as divided a nation as we're made out to be.)  He faults the Republicans for being wedded to old-money industries such as oil, but faults the Democrats equally for buying into the nineteenth-century businessmodel by catering to unions.  And both parties have failed equally in recognizing what truly drives the U.S. economy (hint to some previous reviewers:  it's not just money). <br /> <br />As for the commonly expressed criticism that RF is glorifying an effete, self-centered \\"creative class\\" while ignoring the unwashed masses, do the math:  these people prospered economically not because they inherited money, but because they WORKED FOR IT.  Regional success stories such as Silicon Valley and Seattle were built, not by trust-fund babies (or, for that matter, on Enron-style accounting), but by people who committed themselves passionately to a project, took financial risks, and worked long hours.  His suggestions in the later sections of the book have to do, not with keeping the \\"creative class\\" exclusive, but with improving both the work environment and the educational system so that the rest of society can draw upon their own creativity to achieve the same personal and financial success.	2005-07-27
US	52818926	RARJLAIEERHI6	0451172027	189506539	The Boy Who Couldn't Stop Washing: The Experience and Treatment of Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A good overview, and very readable	This is a very good overview of the subject of OCD:  readable, engaging, and enlightening.  The author wisely decided to let her patients speak for themselves about OCD and how it has affected their lives:  OCD behavior can appear freakish or ludicrous to an outsider, but it can be debilitating and intensely painful to those who suffer from the disorder, and this book does a great job of conveying that.  While some information (e.g., the appendix on drug treatments) is out of date, OCD behavior, and the emotions that accompany it, are -- as the author points out -- notably similar across time and in widely diverse cultural settings, so most of the book is still relevant.    I was also favorably impressed by Dr. Rapoport's tone:  she's humble about the misconceptions long held by psychologists (herself included) about OCD, and doesn't present herself as the all-knowing authority.  She also notes that, throughout her years of treating OCD patients, they've been HER teachers rather than the reverse, and this attitude of respect serves her well as an author -- as well as, it's clear, in her practice with OCD patients.  While OCD tends to affect men more than women, and certain age groups more than others, those who suffer from OCD are often highly talented and intelligent people who manage to succeed in life in spite of their disorder (which can be an immense drain on their time and energy);  so viewing them as a mere collection of symptoms, rather than a complex human being, does them a great disservice.    The book touches only lightly on the subject of \\"hoarding,\\" which I have a personal interest in (I have a family member who's a world-class hoarder).  But it seems apparent from the author's brief discussion that, while hoarding seems related to OCD (and some people with other OCD symptoms also hoard), it doesn't respond readily to OCD medication and may, in fact, be an entirely different disorder.  But Dr. Rapoport makes it abundantly clear that OCD (and related disorders) are biochemical in nature, and, while behavioral therapy may help to alleviate the symptoms, the only \\"cure\\" for the disorder is to address the biochemical problems that caused it in the first place.	2005-04-11
US	52818926	R22KGBE7TCHXXY	0393050572	948966865	Will in the World: How Shakespeare Became Shakespeare	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The world and Will's place in it	I found this book engrossing, persuasive, and readable.  Greenblatt doesn't reveal any new factual information about Shakespeare, but, based on what is already known about the writer's life and times, he's done an excellent job of connecting the dots.  For instance, how did an immensely talented but uneducated young man, from a small town in the provinces, happen to go to London and be accepted into a major company of players?  Whether or not Greenblatt's speculations about Shakespeare's dramatic activities during the \\"lost years\\" are correct, he points out that the companies often went on the road;  so, based on factual evidence about when and where they performed, Shakespeare would have had many opportunities to get to know them before he ever left the Midlands. <br /> <br />Greenblatt's readings of the poems and plays are generally convincing.  I felt that he made a better case for some than for others:  it makes sense, chronologically and conceptually, to link the creation of Shylock to the execution of Dr. Lopez, even if \\"laughter at the scaffold\\" is putting too fine a point on it.  The absence of successful marriages (let alone happy ones) from the plays is telling.  And it's likely that Hamlet's depressive nature (which is not in the sources) derived from Shakespeare's reaction to his son's death.  However, it seems unnecessarily complicated to deduce that Hamlet's concerns about sin and the afterlife arose because Shakespeare's (presumably) Catholic father pressured him to pray for a soul in Purgatory;  to someone brought up Catholic, the painful experience of losing his only son would have raised these issues without prompting. <br /> <br />Some readers are troubled by the image of Shakespeare as a sharp business manager and real estate investor;  but it's clear from his work that he had a quick mind, an excellent memory, and a good understanding of a wide range of subjects, so insisting that a Great Writer can't be a shrewd investor too doesn't do him justice.  Others complain that the historical facts don't \\"explain\\" why Shakespeare became the greatest writer in English - well, of course not;  genius happens.  What I found most interesting about the book, however, is this:  there seems to be a widespread belief that we don't understand \\"Shakespeare the man\\" because we simply don't have enough background material on him.  Greenblatt makes the most of what we have, but he also raises the possibility that that's exactly the way Shakespeare wanted it.	2005-02-18
US	52818926	R1T6OOAUQEJB75	1578516447	111485236	The Monk and the Riddle: The Art of Creating a Life While Making a Living	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Not just silicon	While this book may appear to be a period piece from the glory days of Silicon Valley, I think that the author's main points are important in any business environment.  His distinction between \\"passion\\" and \\"drive\\" was helpful:  too many of us mistake the latter for the former, assuming that our level of commitment and work ethic equates to \\"passion,\\" and pouring our energies into sustaining a business or a job that doesn't sustain US. <br /> <br />Having been there and done that, I wholeheartedly agree with his criticism of the \\"deferred life plan.\\"  If you start out to earn a living based on your passion, you may fail at a particular business, but you'll learn a lot that will help you with the next one, and you'll still have the passion to sustain you.  But if your ambition is to make a lot of money from a business that doesn't engage you so that you can quit and follow your passion, then if it fails you'll be no closer to following your passion;  if it succeeds but doesn't make you a billionaire overnight (like most businesses), you'll be stuck running a business that diverts you from following your passion. <br />  <br />The book is well-told and amusing, and I felt it was well worth reading.  (My answer to the monk's riddle was:  drop the chicken before it lays the egg.  I guess I'm not Zen enough.)	2004-12-08
US	52818926	R4B9FR2S44P4O	0375507493	318684906	What Should I Do With My Life: The True Story of People Who Answered the Ultimate Question	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Fascinating and enlightening	In general, I found this book a real upper.  For us perfectionists who feel that \\"I should have figured this out by now,\\" it's encouraging to learn that thousands of other people grapple with the same question, many of them with only partial success. But, at the same time, I was awed by the creativity, drive, and passion that many of these people applied to their search.  This isn't a \\"how to\\" book or a collection of \\"happily ever after\\" fairy tales;  it's real people trying to make sense of their lives, and, as in real life, success is not guaranteed.    I agree with other readers that the book has flaws:  Bronson sometimes falls into the \\"counselor\\" role that he supposedly tried to avoid, and his subjects tend to represent the same demographic.  But this isn't an objective, scientific study, and he makes no claims that it is.  I liked the \\"thematic\\" organization of the book;  it was interesting to see how people in very different circumstances addressed the same issue.  And I felt that the book's lack of a \\"self-help\\" focus was one of its strengths:  neither the author nor his subjects feel that they know all the answers, so trying to prescribe a method for addressing the question would be fundamentally dishonest.	2004-12-08
US	52818926	RL2D3H1EM0930	1741041619	522018211	Lonely Planet Slovenia	Books	5	40	40	N	N	Still the best guide to Slovenia	I took this book with me on a trip to Slovenia in September-October 2004, when it was hot off the presses.  My travels didn't cover the whole country, just the western half, so I can't speak for all of the book's recommendations.  But, in general, I found it immensely helpful, both for planning my trip and for day-to-day guidance while traveling.  Some comments:    1.  Slovenia's currency hasn't stabilized yet, so expect prices to vary upward, especially now that the Euro is so high against the dollar.  Big deal;  it's still a comparatively inexpensive country.  (I went to a rip-off-the-tourists but very good restaurant in Ljubljana,  had a full dinner and a half-liter of wine -- and my total bill was $20!)  2.  The famous disappearing Lake Cerknicka does indeed disappear for a large part of the year, so it's likely that all you'll see is a bumpy plain covered with grass.  On a related subject, the Soca River valley is beautiful, but in the fall the water is low, so anyone expecting a kayaker's paradise would be disappointed.  3.  Renting a car is expensive, and the train and bus system, while not perfect, is still very good.  So I used this book to plan ahead:  I took public transportation most of the time, then rented a car for one day to visit some areas that are difficult or impossible any other way (e.g., the church at Hrastovlje, which is amazing even if you're not a fan of medieval religious art).  4.  The church of St. John the Baptist near Lake Bohinj, with the interesting medieval wall paintings, is closed for repairs, completion date uncertain.  However, if you walk up the road to Stara Fuzina, the church there has some arguably medieval paintings in the front porch;  it's a lovely walk, too, and you can continue on to Studor and admire the antique hayracks.  5.  I totally agree with the book's description of the Skocjan Caves:  I'm not a big fan of caves, but these were special, and fully worth the effort. (The tour requires considerable walking and step-climbing, so it's not for the weak or the faint-hearted.)  The bus access to the site is poor, but some tour companies run day trips from Ljubljana, and the prices I saw were pretty reasonable.  6.  The book's restaurant recommendations are generally excellent:  Delfin, in Piran, has the best grilled squid on the planet, and the mussels aren't bad either.  7.  Fall can be rainy:  I encountered a couple of wet, chilly days that made me wish I'd brought waterproof shoes and a heavier raincoat.  But, the rest of the time, it was warm enough that I wore sandals.  8.  In the fall, many museums and other sights cut back their hours drastically, so be sure to check before you go, especially if a long trip is involved.  (I arrived too late for the day's last tour of Sneznik Castle;  on the other hand, I visited the Dormouse Museum -- which is utterly mad and not to be missed -- and hung out in the pub next door with the locals practicing their English on me, and that was way more fun than seeing some rich German family's old furniture!)	2004-12-08
US	52818926	R3OFGWVEENDNPU	1860467695	301708830	Microcosms (Panther)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Enjoyable and enlightening	This is a wonderful, in-depth exploration of a corner of Europe that most people don't know exists.  Over the centuries, Trieste and the surrounding region have been a cultural crossroads;  as the border between Italy, Slovenia, and Austria shifted, the city was transformed from a rather sleepy backwater to a major port, and back again.  This amalgam of cultural influences has made the region unique, and, as a native son, Magris offers an insider's perspective.  But this isn't your average travel book;  in a series of (mostly) short essays, he vividly portrays aspects of regional life ranging from the whimsical (the bear that never appears) to the gently ironic (Cafe San Marco) to the grim (memories of wars).  In the final essay, where he envisions dying while walking in the city park, he revisits themes from most of the other essays and concludes with a memorable image of &quot;life goes on.&quot;  I found the book both enjoyable and enlightening as a glimpse into the Triestine mind-set, and I know I'll reread it.	2004-07-09
US	52818926	RUEDVB5QGTXAI	0743250400	372341668	The Master	Books	5	15	16	N	N	James as James saw himself	Most novels about the life of an author (or other artist) fall into the &quot;Lust for Life&quot; trap:  they focus on the more sensational aspects of the author's life;  and they portray artistic creation as a temporary madness, during which the author is taken out of him/herself into the exalted state in which a work of art is produced.  James, by contrast, dealt in nuance and restraint, small gestures with enormous meaning, and unexpressed desires leading to endless regret.  I felt that Toibin captured James'  voice perfectly, both in his own writing style and in what he chooses to tell (and not tell) about the author.  James was exquisitely sensitive and kind, but both his New England upbringing and his homosexuality (which, if expressed, could have had serious consequences, as the chapter about Wilde makes clear) combined to turn his warmer impulses inward.  His personal life may appear to have been a series of (mostly) dead ends, but that's the tragedy that he turned into art.  (And, having always thought of James as an effete man-about-town who happened to be a good novelist, I was surprised to learn how extremely hard-working a writer he was, generating a constant stream of essays, reviews, and stories.)  The conversion of life into literature happens, not because of a visitation by the Muse, but by the continual gathering of small impressions and linking them together to form a coherent, compelling whole.  James, an inveterate journal-and-notebook-keeper, gave his biographers a lot of material to work with, but this novel is far and away THE most convincing depiction of the creative process that I've ever read.  A master as seen by a master.	2004-07-09
US	52818926	R2OXKIADQ6BE0D	0743201280	46635028	Trieste and the Meaning of Nowhere	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A twilight view of Trieste	Morris' perspective on Trieste is unique on several counts:  a seasoned and sensitive traveler, she has a deep affection for a city that doesn't rank high on most people's lists of favorite places;  she's experienced the city as both a young man and a middle-aged woman;  and she's well-read about the city's history and literary associations, but she uses her learning as the backdrop for direct experience of life in Trieste, rather than as an end in itself.  I thoroughly enjoyed the book, both as an appreciative visitor's impressions of the city and as an account of Morris' elegiac musings late in an eventful life.  On the other hand, having recently read Claudio Magris' &quot;Microcosms,&quot; I was forcibly reminded that this book is Trieste from an outsider's perspective.  It's a beautiful book and well worth reading, but, for the Triestine mind in action, read Magris.	2004-07-09
US	52818926	R2Q6ZN9DZZ28R1	0805063897	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Enlightening and scary	I found this book especially interesting because my city recently passed a &quot;living wage&quot; ordinance (and local business groups are, predictably, squawking).  To those reviewers who sneer that Ehrenreich's research is biased because &quot;nobody can live on $7 an hour in Key West,&quot; may I point out that tourist areas attract unskilled workers precisely because they provide thousands of low-wage service jobs;  but if you can't afford a car on your salary, and your other transportation options are limited, you're constrained to live near your job and are likely to end up sharing a motel room with 4 other people.  Or there's the all-too-common dilemma that blue-collar workers who have lived and worked in the same town for generations find themselves priced out of the real estate market when the area becomes a &quot;destination.&quot;  Tourist areas are a hotbed of underpaid, exploited workers, and thus, I think, a good subject for a study of the &quot;working poor.&quot;<br />I was especially struck by her accounts of how low-wage workers are systematically humiliated, demeaned, and mistreated.  She opines that this is a deliberate strategy to keep them down, and points out that workers are often so demoralized by this treatment that they come to believe that they don't &quot;deserve&quot; any better.  I doubt that this is solely the fault of the companies that employ these workers -- our society and our educational system label people as &quot;winners&quot; and &quot;losers&quot; from an early age -- but that doesn't make it any less wrong for businesses to exploit those beliefs.<br />A related point:  the American myth (which Ehrenreich was brought up to believe too) is that hard work is the key to success, and that people who aren't successful have only themselves to blame because they haven't worked hard enough.  But the book is full of examples of people who work incredibly hard for long hours at underpaid, undervalued jobs, even when they're ill or inpain -- and, because they aren't provided with (or can't afford) adequate medical insurance, they end up permanently damaging their health.<br />In general, I felt that this was a thought-provoking book that points out the flaws in our smug American myths about work and raises some important social issues, and I'm glad that it's still being widely read and argued over.	2004-06-10
US	52818926	R2OJ6P481VAGMO	1901866718	355547969	The Years of Bloom: James Joyce in Trieste 1904-1920	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A terrific resource, and a good read too	Like many other readers of Joyce, I considered Trieste to be merely \\"anywhere but Dublin\\" -- i.e., it was significant to the author only because it was where he began his self-imposed exile from Ireland.  In his writings, I felt, Joyce never really left Dublin, and he could as well have been in Mombasa or Ulan Bator for all the effect that his city of residence had on his work.  So this book was a revelation to me:  although Joyce originally landed in Trieste by happenstance, he quickly grew to feel at home there, and the city provided a cosmopolitan, ethnically diverse, and culturally rich environment in which his art grew to maturity.   <br />McCourt provides ample and convincing evidence of the degree to which Joyce's experiences in Trieste influenced his most important works, from the Triestine puns in \\"Finnegans Wake\\" to the main characters of \\"Ulysses,\\" and how productive he was as a writer during his years there.  What I found especially fascinating were the details McCourt unearthed about the rest of Joyce's life:  in his perennially unsuccessful pursuit of financial stability, he was (inter alia) a partner in a cinema, a bank clerk, and a would-be exporter of Irish woolens;  his domestic life was continually in uproar (Nora lacked his facility at learning languages, and was marooned at home with a series of babies and, from time to time, Joyce's transplanted siblings);  but he was a good English teacher, and, through his private tutoring, he became acquainted with many financially and intellectually influential members of Triestine society.  (The influence went both ways:  the writer/businessman Ettore Schmidt was on the verge of giving up his literary ambitions when Joyce convinced him not to, and he went on to write several classic novels under his pen name, Italo Svevo.)<br />This book was originally a doctoral dissertation, and it suffers at times from the graduate-student tendency to include Absolutely Every Detail relevant to one's subject (I sympathize:  been there, done that).  But, in general, it's readable, clearly written, well organized, and, although the basic structure is chronological, the author gives each chapter enough of a thematic focus to make it more than a mere recitation of dates and events.  I found the book entertaining as well as informative, and I feel it's a valuable resource for anyone interested in Joyce or, for that matter, in early 20th century European literary history.	2004-05-28
US	52818926	R2HNXDCNTS2ZTK	0415041139	482345062	Dance Therapy and Depth Psychology: The Moving Imagination	Books	4	15	15	N	N	A good introduction to the theory behind dance therapy	This book isn't an easy read:  the autobiographical first section is straightforward and engaging;  however, in the second section, when she outlines the theoretical background and underpinnings of her method, it becomes rather heavy going.  (The book was based on her dissertation, and it shows here.  At least the chapters are fairly concise, but, if you start getting bogged down in this section, skip to the last 4 chapters.)  However, in the final section, everything comes together and makes sense:  the discussion of the various &quot;movement themes,&quot; what they signify, and where they originate in the mover's psyche, is clear, understandable, and applicable in practice.  For the reader with an academic background in psychology, this is a good introduction to the subject of dance therapy;  if you come to the book from a dance perspective, it will increase your understanding of why certain movements are powerfully evocative, and perhaps give you some insight into what your own dance style expresses.	2004-05-07
US	52818926	R3F1K2IC17UFYE	0670031410	978709002	Thieves in High Places: They've Stolen Our Country--And It's Time to Take It Back	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The operative words are &quot;take it back&quot;	I listen to Jim Hightower's commentaries fairly regularly on our local public radio station, so I assumed that this book would simply summarize the bad news I'd already heard.  The first part was indeed like that, although it also has a &quot;connect the dots&quot; aspect that's pretty persuasive.  But parts 2 and 3 are Jim at his rabble-rousing best:  inspiring accounts of how people all over the country have managed to thwart the Kleptocrats, and suggestions how the rest of us can do the same.  Faced with corruption in high places, it's easy to conclude that resistance is futile  -- but his examples show that it isn't, and that taking small steps locally is the route to winning our country back.	2004-01-28
US	52818926	R5C1S4DCYJS9G	0060086270	134596116	The Right Questions: Ten Essential Questions To Guide You To An Extraordinary Life	Books	4	25	27	N	N	Simple but effective	Although this book (as other reviewers have pointed out) doesn't have anything radically new to say, I think it's very useful for two reasons.  (1) The author's emphasis on the here-and-now is refreshing:  there are whole shelves of self-help books that focus on goal-setting, which is essential too;  but you actually achieve your goals (or not) through the small day-to-day choices you make, and few authors provide specific help with that part of the process.  (2) If you set goals but consistently fail to get any closer to them, she advises you to examine your daily choices to determine the REAL goals they serve.  This can be very enlightening (and sometimes disquieting), but until you've identified how you may be sabotaging yourself, you'll continue to be frustrated.<br />That said, I found some of the author's advice questionable. (1) She doesn't deal with situations where the &quot;right&quot; choices may conflict.  (E.g., should I get up early to go to yoga class, or get a few more hours of sleep?  If my goal is to be fitter, of course I should go to class;  but if I'm not getting enough sleep, I'm not taking care of myself.  The long-term question may be &quot;Why am I overcommitted?&quot;, but the immediate problem is sleep deprivation, and doing the &quot;right&quot; thing may compound the problem and/or distract you from addressing the real question.) (2) This may be petty, but I find it annoying when someone who (from her photograph) appears thin, to the point of being almost anorexic, makes self-righteous pronouncements about sticking to diets!  (3) The model of behavior she appears to be promoting is total control at all times:  you shouldn't make ANY decision, no matter how small, without asking whether your choice serves some lofty purpose.  While I agree that it's helpful to observe the patterns in the choices you make, and to change a pattern if it gets in the way of your life goals, some trivial decisions really ARE trivial (chocolate or vanilla?), and it's OK to lighten up every now and then!	2003-12-15
US	52818926	R31VDEZV3MR3LP	0609808451	581971925	The Cultural Creatives: How 50 Million People Are Changing the World	Books	5	24	24	N	N	I'm convinced	I found this book very encouraging.  In the corporate-owned mass media, there's a persistent theme that the sixties were a temporary aberration:  for a few years, people wore tie-dyed T-shirts, smoked pot, held nude encounter groups, marched for peace, and joined exotic religions;  but it was all just a fad, and now everything is back to normal again.  The authors point out that, on the contrary, while the big issues of the sixties aren't getting the media attention they used to, in fact they have had a profound effect on society:  comparison of survey results from the 1950's and the 1990's shows that there's been an immense shift in public opinion about such subjects as racial equality, women's rights, alternative medicine, and ecology.  Also, all the old hippies and radicals haven't died off or dropped out of politics;  they're still working for the same &quot;causes,&quot; but most of them have transferred their activism to more local, specific arenas.<br />The authors make an important point that I think mainstream politics often misses:  The people they label &quot;cultural creatives&quot; belong to a wide variety of political parties, organizations, and religions, and are passionate about issues rather than politics;  so a political strategy that attempts to draw this diverse but active group into supporting a single party or platform (e.g., &quot;If you believe in X, then you should vote for these Democratic candidates&quot;) won't succeed.<br />The book is several years old, and the political/social landscape in the U.S. has changed since 2000.  But (based on my own experience) I feel that the authors' conclusions about who the Cultural Creatives are and how they got that way are valid.  On the other hand, I think they missed a few things:<br />(1) They discuss the role of institutes such as Esalen in the human consciousness movement, but don't mention other media:  magazines such as Utne Reader, radio programs like New Dimensions, many PBS radio and TV stations, alternative newspapers, etc.  In areas of the country where someone who holds non-mainstream opinions can often feel isolated, these media played (and continue to play) a major role.<br />(2) The Internet has been a major factor in global connectivity for at least 20 years, but the authors give it only about a page of rather vague discussion.  While using the Internet for direct political action is a relatively new phenomenon (MoveOn.org, one of the most visible groups, was founded in 1998 in response to the Clinton impeachment), issues-oriented web sites and mailing lists, ranging across the political spectrum, have been around for much longer.  I also think the authors underestimated the general effects of the Internet on human relationships:  as an acquaintance of mine in Europe once put it, if you have 'Net buddies in another country, you're far less likely to drop a bomb on it.<br />I think the book is persuasively argued and the authors draw reasonable conclusions from the (very extensive) statistical data.  I found some of the lengthy discussions about Traditionals and Moderns rather tedious, but in general this is an exciting and important book that deserves to be widely read.	2003-11-26
US	52818926	R2IKOHUMBLYRPL	1930722206	690770776	The Joy of Burnout: How the End of the World Can Be a New Beginning	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Heartening and helpful	This book caught my eye in a bookstore in London last fall, and I found it very timely and helpful, so I'm delighted that it's now available in the U.S.<br />Most books on burnout are written from the perspective that burnout is a negative condition that results from our failure to handle life's demands effectively, so it's up to us to cure the personal problems that caused the burnout and restore our pre-burnout frame of mind.  By contrast, Dr. Glouberman sees burnout as a wake-up call, an invitation to stop and re-evaluate what led to our burnout, and an opportunity to reinvent our lives.<br />In my experience, burnout often occurs because (as happened to the author herself) we're putting too much of our energy into activities that are peripheral or antithetical to what we do best -- e.g., the technical expert who's thrust into a management job, or the teacher who becomes an administrator.  Rather than struggling frantically to recapture the enthusiasm that may not have been there in the first place, it's better to step back, evaluate what's right and wrong for us in the present situation, and consciously choose which path forward is best for us.<br />The author's exercises are helpful, but what I found most encouraging was her attitude.  Most people with a strong work ethic find burnout shameful -- an admission that they \\"failed\\" to meet the demands of a presumably desirable situation.  Dr. Glouberman's positive, optimistic approach to burnout is heartening:  once you're able to get past the negative emotions associated with burnout, you're free to look at the situation with detachment, and to learn from it.	2003-11-10
US	52818926	R2Z81QBMGAD7CY	0393050971	308447240	The Soul of Money: Transforming Your Relationship with Money and Life	Books	5	152	158	N	N	Raise your money consciousness	Most of us think that we understand the facts of money:  money is good, lack of money is bad;  having more money is better than having less money;  competition and scarcity are normal because it's a jungle out there;  the way to cure economic depression and hunger is to throw more money at the problem;  and so on.  But these aren't &quot;facts&quot; in the sense of objective realities;  rather, they stem from attitudes towards money that are so ingrained in our culture that they rarely intrude into our consciousness.<br />This book is an eye-opener:  as a highly successful fund-raiser and representative for the Hunger Project, Lynne Twist has worked with everyone from Amazon tribal members to CEOs of multi-billion-dollar corporations.  Her sensitivity and willingness to listen have given her insight into the real-life consequences of our attitudes towards money (and resources in general).  The money consciousness that she propounds in this book is transformative, but it's based on a breadth of experience that makes her conclusions convincing -- for instance, she's worked in real jungles, and the &quot;law of the jungle&quot; is NOT the way they actually operate!<br />Despite the many well-chosen anecdotes, this book deals primarily in generalizations.  But that's appropriate:  the author's purpose is to make us aware of our attitudes towards money, and suggest how changing these attitudes can transform the way we go about solving some of the world's most vexing problems.  This book deserves not only to be read, but taken to heart.	2003-11-10
US	52818926	RSH2SRZ6JQKY1	1591930200	8261377	Birds of New Mexico Field Guide	Books	4	42	42	N	N	A very useful general guide	This isn't a guide for the serious birdwatcher:  it covers the 140 most common birds of New Mexico, not every bird that you'll ever see in the state, and the descriptions of the species vary considerably in depth.  Also, although the photos are generally very good, some don't show the significant details that help you to recognize a particular species:  the photo of the scaled quail, for example, doesn't convey the bird's distinctive \\"cotton-top\\" look, and often the head is the only part you can see as it scuttles away through the brush.<br />On the other hand, this is an easy-to-use, convenient guide for the casual birdwatcher or the curious tourist.  Birds are listed by color, and, in species where the sexes are different colors, both males and females are shown.  The maps of the bird's distribution in the state are helpful too, as the regional maps in other popular field guides don't show this level of detail.  This isn't the guide I'll take with me on my annual birding pilgrimage to the Bosque del Apache, but I'll keep it in my car and lend it to my guests from out of state.	2003-10-29
US	52818926	R19DYZ5R6ANTFL	0786886323	399419494	Carter Beats the Devil	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Entertaining but not profound	I enjoyed this book in general.  The story is engaging, and the plot has enough twists and turns to keep the reader fascinated without becoming confusing.  Gold has definitely done his homework:  his depiction of the magician's apparatus, the world of vaudeville, and the physical locations where the story takes place, never rang false to me.  (As someone who grew up in the Bay Area, and lived for many years in and near Oakland, I found his picture of the city's early days especially fascinating.)  However, I felt that the characterization was uneven:  Carter himself, and his family, are well-rounded, and some of the historical figures (such as Houdini and President Harding) are presented in enough detail to be credible, but others are so one-dimensional as to be almost &quot;props&quot; in the story -- e.g., in spite of his repeat appearances, I never got a clear picture of what Borax Smith was like.  The book is fun, and Gold's writing style is a pleasure to read;  but more in-depth characterization would have made the book a good NOVEL, not just an &quot;entertainment.&quot;	2003-10-08
US	52818926	R2LA7XE7T91VKJ	0452267560	850158674	Mastery: The Keys to Success and Long-Term Fulfillment	Books	4	26	26	N	N	Surprisingly insightful	This is a brief, easy-to-read book (I zipped through it in one evening), but I found it remarkably enlightening about the learning process in general.  What especially struck me were three points:  (1) The \\"plateau\\" is just as important in learning a skill as the rare moments when you exceed yourself, so don't become impatient (or quit) when you hit a plateau;  it's where you consolidate your skills, make them automatic, and get ready for the next step.  (2) To learn something new, you have to become a beginner again.  (3) If you focus on achieving ever higher and higher goals, you'll burn out;  but embracing the process and the attitude of being a learner will last you a lifetime.  (About 25 years ago, a group of Apple Computer employees paid for a billboard in honor of Steve Jobs' birthday;  it read \\"The Journey is the Reward.\\"  At the time I thought this was pseudo-Zen fluff, but I know better now -- and that's exactly the point of this book.)	2003-10-07
US	52818926	R201BXC9S2Z322	1561706086	776971659	The Indigo Children: The New Kids Have Arrived	Books	3	56	60	N	N	Some good advice, but a shaky premise	Carroll and Tober's book describes a real phenomenon:  a pattern of traits and behavior in children that is often labeled a \\"disorder,\\" but in fact represents a divergent (and valuable) way of viewing reality.  And I agree that, rather than trying to drug such children into conformity, parents and educators need to respect them for who (and what) they are, communicate with them in terms they understand, and help them to make the most of their extraordinary gifts rather than suppressing them.<br />On the other hand, these aren't new observations, nor are such traits unique to children born after 1978.  Palladino's \\"Dreamers, Discovers, and Dynamos\\" (first published as \\"The Edison Trait\\") describes the same behavior pattern in children and offers similar advice to their parents.  Farther towards the New Age end of the spectrum is Jacobsen's \\"The Gifted Adult,\\" which rates (among other things) \\"evolutionary intelligence\\";  but her description of the \\"everyday genius\\" echoes Palladino's \\"Edison trait\\" -- the attitudes and behaviors which, as the name implies, have characterized \\"divergent thinkers\\" like Edison throughout human history.  Finally, many other writers have described the gifted person's absolute confidence in their destiny and the rightness of pursuing it against all odds (see, for example, Hillman's \\"The Soul's Code\\").<br />The facts are that some children's (and adults') minds work differently from the norm, that such individuals are often broadly and unusually gifted, and that the \\"one size fits all\\" approach to child-rearing and education simply doesn't work with them.  But I don't think you need to postulate a new step in human evolution, or read auras, in order to explain the presence of these people today;  they've been with us all along.  (Then again, maybe now we're beginning to pay attention to them!)	2003-09-25
US	52818926	RXLVF1OQCMSSR	0226105962	568500656	In Search of Lost Roses	Books	5	25	25	N	N	A delight for rose lovers, and a fun read for anyone	My family has a long-standing love affair with roses:  a \\"Belle of Portugal\\" that my grandmother planted in the 1920's has been passed down through several generations.  So I found this book utterly delightful, full of fascinating anecdotes about old varieties of roses, the characters who developed and distributed them, and the even wilder characters who \\"rustle\\" and propagate old roses with passion and gusto today.  The chapters are thematic and geographical, rather than historical, but they're immensely fun to read.  I learned all sorts of amazing historical trivia -- e.g., why the Grass Valley, CA public library owns a Cornish/English dictionary, and the political aspects of rose nomenclature.  And, as someone interested in \\"heirloom\\" plants in general (I'm a card-carrying member of Slow Food), I found his discussion of rose genetics and propagation fascinating.  Some of his stories are poignant, too -- e.g., the elderly black women in rural Texas who propagated roses over the centuries from sheer love, but were dying out even as he wrote.  I enjoyed the book thoroughly, and recommend it even if you're not an old rose buff.	2003-09-23
US	52818926	R2BBN5QXA5065P	0312309457	39750124	Murder and Mayhem: A Doctor Answers Medical and Forensic Questions for Mystery Writers	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Fun, and very useful	This book is a collection of question-and-answer columns that Dr. Lyle wrote for Mystery Writers of America newsletters, so it's not exactly a comprehensive reference:  some information is presented briefly, some is covered at great length, and some is repeated.  But he covers a wide variety of topics useful to writers of mysteries and other fiction -- everything from the effects of various wounds and poisons, to what happens during a miscarriage, to who serves as the coroner in a small town.  So, unless your character is an extremely ingenious murderer or suffers from a rare disease, you can probably find the information you need to write a convincing description.  Also, Dr. Lyle has a good grasp of the writer's perspective, so he's very helpful in pointing out whether an author has &quot;wiggle room&quot; or not;  this distinction isn't always clear in medical reference material.  The book is easy to read, lively, and often funny, and if you're fascinated by medical details (how can the M.E. tell if someone drowned in fresh or salt water?), you'll find it enthralling -- but if not, you can always skip to the next question.  Three thumbs up!  (MY character has an extra digit.)	2003-09-04
US	52818926	RIJ1VBKOAHRY8	0465024769	913269431	The Rise Of The Creative Class: And How It's Transforming Work, Leisure, Community And Everyday Life	Books	5	273	288	N	N	The way things work	Richard Florida's study began with a rather straightforward premise:  what characterizes the cities and regions that are economically successful today?   His conclusions are rather controversial, but, based on the statistical evidence he presents (as well as my own experience), I found them highly convincing.<br />The liveliest economies, he finds, are in regions characterized by the 3 T's -- talent, technology, and tolerance.  The implications are profound, to wit:<br />1.  Conventional wisdom holds that, to boost an area's economy, it's necessary to attract large companies and thus create jobs.  In fact, companies locate where the talent is;  all the tax breaks in the world won't bring a large company to your area if they can't find the quality of employees they want there.  Often, too, the talent itself will generate new companies and create jobs that way.<br />2.  Urban planners assume that, to attract talent/jobs, what's important is to provide infrastructure:  sports stadiums, freeways, shopping centers, etc.  In fact, creative people prefer authenticity -- so making your city just like everyplace else is a sure way to kill its attractiveness.<br />3.  The often-misunderstood \\"gay index\\" doesn't mean that gay people are more creative, or that attracting gays to a community will ipso facto boost its economy.  Creative people tend to prefer gay-friendly communities because they're perceived as tolerant of anyone who isn't \\"mainstream\\";  a city that's run by a conservative good-ole-boys network isn't a good place to try to start a business unless you're one of the good ole boys.<br />The book is primarily descriptive and analytical, rather than prescriptive.  But I feel it's immensely valuable for pointing out that much of the conventional wisdom about economic development and community planning is just plain wrong, and suggesting alternative approaches that have a greater chance of succeeding.  And I'm amused (and bemused) by the reviewers who sneered that thisbook propounds an elitist, liberal, contempt-for-the-working-masses view of American society.  To me, the book is almost TOO descriptive:  didn't these reviewers read the many statistical tables and the lengthy analyses that the author provides?  Fact:  The most economically successful cities and regions have these characteristics.  That isn't propaganda;  it's the way things work.	2003-09-02
US	52818926	R3B8RWT2YQT0GI	0375501568	81872394	Beyond Belief: The Secret Gospel of Thomas	Books	5	44	49	N	N	Convincing and balanced	This book is an excellent follow-on to Pagels' earlier work, &quot;The Gnostic Gospels&quot;;  it's based on many of the same texts, but incorporates insights from the extensive scholarly work done on the Nag Hammadi texts since the first book was written.  To me, the points that stood out were:  (1) The earlier 3 Gospels (Matthew, Mark, and Luke) tell essentially the same story;  the inclusion of John as the fourth canonical Gospel put a different spin on &quot;Who was Jesus?&quot;, and caused later commentators and readers to view the other 3 Gospels through that lens.  (2) The Gospels of John and Thomas are contemporaneous and express two differing views of Christian thought and behavior;  for various reasons (many of them political), John was chosen as the &quot;official&quot; view and Thomas was suppressed.  (3) The idea that Christianity should have a single, &quot;orthodox&quot; set of beliefs and practices was a defensive response to persecution;  in the beginning, Christianity was far more loosely organized and diverse than the &quot;official&quot; history makes it out to be.  I felt that Pagels argued her points well, supported them with ample scholarly evidence, and aired differing views as well as her own, so I found the book an impressive piece of work.  (It's a pity that it has become a sort of Rorschach test for reviewers -- many of the reviews I've read seem to be about the book that the reviewer THINKS that Pagels wrote, rather than the one she actually wrote!)	2003-07-30
US	52818926	R1ND8SN08KB6TR	0375760393	928502416	The Botany of Desire: A Plant's-Eye View of the World	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A good read, and very informative	I read this book after hearing a talk by Pollan on New Dimensions radio (in their &quot;Bioneers&quot; series), and I found it (like his talk) perfectly delightful.  I don't agree that his use of science is misleading:  he's done his homework and researched his subjects pretty thoroughly, and if he takes sides on an issue (e.g., anti-pesticide and anti-genetic-engineering), it's a reasoned conclusion rather than an unthinking bias.  The book is anecdotal and impressionistic, not a closely-reasoned scientific argument, but I felt that its rather loose structure worked well:  it's a fun read, he kept me interested all the way through, and I learned a surprising amount about history, botany, and horticulture.  I've read several accounts of the Potato Famine, but Pollan's &quot;take&quot; on it was intriguing:  he sees it as the world's most ghastly example of the dangers of monoculture, and I agree that it's a lesson we all need to take to heart.  (But it's also a case of How A Fungus Changed The World:  if the potato blight hadn't dispersed the Irish all over the world, many countries -- in Latin America, as well as the obvious contenders, Australia and the U.S. -- would be very different today.)  The book is easy to read and amusing, but he also makes some important points, and I have no hesitation in recommending it.	2003-07-17
US	52818926	R25DUJ099ZY01O	0743202236	112396348	A Mind at a Time: America's Top Learning Expert Shows How Every Child Can Succeed	Books	5	85	87	N	N	Significant, enlightening, and a good read too	Other reviewers have discussed the pros and cons of Dr. Levine's theories in depth, so I won't go into those;  in the field of cognitive psychology, I'm an interested (and, I think, fairly well-read) amateur rather than a professional. <br />That said, I feel that this is an important book for both parents and educators.  The child's \\"job\\" of learning how to function in the world, and mastering the many tasks set for him/her by the educational system, isn't an easy one.  The human mind is complex and multifaceted, but our schools tend to think of \\"intelligence\\" as a narrowly defined set of skills, and anyone who doesn't do well in those must be either stupid or lazy.  (Levine notes that the moral implications of such judgments, e.g., that a student \\"doesn't try hard enough\\" or is \\"unmotivated,\\" can be devastating to a child, and are often grossly unfair.)  The irony is that -- as Levine points out -- the abilities that enable a child to succeed in school aren't necessarily those that conduce to success in later life;  so, by rewarding performance only in certain areas, we doom many children to a low opinion of their abilities and ignore a wide spectrum of human potential.<br />Although the subject isn't exactly lightweight, I found the book appealing and highly readable.  Dr. Levine clearly has great respect and affection for his young subjects, so his anecdotes are engaging and (often) amusing.  I was especially tickled when he urged a young client not to let his teachers \\"catch him doing something right\\" because from then on they'd hold it against him.  In school, I was a \\"divergent thinker\\" to the max:  if a subject interested me, I'd do a brilliant job, but if not I'd blow it off.  So my occasional successes turned into threats: \\"See how well you can do if you just TRY hard enough.\\"  Trying hard had nothing to do with it!  (When I got into college and graduate school, where I could study the subjects that interested me, my GPA soared.)<br />Although Levine's work is often compared with Howard Gardner's, in fact they're complementary.  Levine deals with cognitive skills (such as learning to filter stimuli), while Gardner deals with innate abilities or faculties in various subject areas (such as affinity for music).  A child's learning difficulties could result from either one -- for example, problems with math might mean that the child can't focus on details, or has little math ability -- or they could be caused by something totally unrelated to intelligence, such as eye problems.  As Levine memorably points out, every child's mind is different, and \\"one size fits all\\" solutions rarely address the real problem.	2003-05-20
US	52818926	RM1JGWUYQ2NB5	0060514876	118424192	Second Acts: Creating the Life You Really Want, Building the Career You Truly Desire	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Well worth your time	I've read probably dozens of &quot;reinvent your life&quot; and/or &quot;find the perfect career&quot; books in the past few years, and this book is definitely in my top 10.  If you take the time to complete the exercises, you'll learn a lot about yourself and what you want out of life, and that alone is worth the price of the book.<br />While Pollan's method for identifying what you want isn't unique to him, he gives it some interesting twists, such as asking not only &quot;What do I want?&quot; but &quot;How will I know when I have it?&quot;, which forces you to be very specific!  His chapters on &quot;opening closed doors&quot; were, I felt, very uneven:  some were genuinely helpful (the money chapter), while others (such as the &quot;education and training&quot; chapter) seemed glib and superficial.<br />I was favorably impressed that he didn't focus solely on career changes:  one of his examples is a woman who loves her career but misses having a family, so the solution is not for her to change careers but to adopt a child.  I like his attitude:  he focuses on the present and the future, on what you can do NOW to achieve what you want;  this is a real upper for those of us who tend to get bogged down in &quot;I've wasted my life&quot; and &quot;It's too late to change&quot;!  He also points out that much of one's work experience -- learning how to negotiate, get along with people, or manage a project -- is transferable to another field, so changing careers doesn't mean starting completely from scratch.<br />On the other hand, as other readers have pointed out, he recounts far too many examples of people who were successful in one career before changing to another.  Many people DON'T succeed because they're in the wrong job;  but, once they find a career that better suits their interests, abilities, and values, they prosper.  It happened to me, and I know I'm not unique, so I think the book would have been more convincing if it included more examples of this type.	2003-05-13
US	52818926	R221L2CJNI30H4	0465026117	967556370	Intelligence Reframed: Multiple Intelligences for the 21st Century	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Stimulating and insightful	I haven't read &quot;Frames of Mind,&quot; although I'm familiar with the theory of multiple intelligences from other sources, so this was my first introduction to Gardner's writing.  I found the book fascinating:  each chapter focuses on one aspect of the theory (e.g., its applicability in the work place, or other candidates for &quot;intelligences&quot; besides the original 7).  They're well written and easy to understand, and, although the depth of the discussion varies, I learned something from every chapter.  I don't agree with the critics who argue that Gardner is coasting on his reputation:  like Ornstein's right brain/left brain theory, the concept of multiple intelligences has taken on a life of its own, so I felt that Gardner's comments on what his theory is (and isn't), and how he views it today, were appropriate.  I was especially struck by his discussion of &quot;leader&quot; intelligence:  he describes a leader as primarily a good storyteller and communicator, and I found this an extremely enlightening comment on American politics.  This is a good general introduction to Gardner's theories, as well as to his current thinking, and I found it stimulating and thought-provoking.	2003-05-13
US	52818926	R1ZDOD9648MBXH	0767903382	11518396	Tender at the Bone: Growing Up at the Table	Books	5	21	21	N	N	A tasty treat	Why I like this book can be best summed up by the beginning of the second-to-last chapter:  After reading Reichl's first restaurant review, her editor remarks that she was born to do this, and she replies softly, &quot;No, but I was very well trained.&quot;  Although she was gifted with an appreciative palate and a knack for cooking, Reichl acquired her knowledge of foods from a series of good teachers, ranging from the eccentric quilt-maker Mr. Izzy T to exacting French winegrowers and tart-makers.  Her ease with a wide variety of people, and her willingness to learn,  were as crucial to her success as her way with words.  She's a good storyteller, but there's genuine warmth beneath the engaging (and sometimes scary) portraits of her friends, family, and mentors.  (I was a graduate student at Berkeley during some of the time she lived there, and her picture of commune living and the restaurant business was dead on -- but, unlike many other writers who came out of the same milieu, she neither romanticizes the hippie lifestyle nor sneers at the political mind-set.)  The book is like having lunch with a friend who's knowledgeable about food and wine, but not pretentious or smug, and I found it perfectly delightful.	2003-03-28
US	52818926	R2KIWWZEBYIKNQ	0743200810	709104374	Going with the Grain: A Wandering Bread Lover Takes a Bite Out of Life	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Fun and fascinating	This isn't just another travel book with a gimmick:  as Seligson points out, bread is central to almost every culture in the world, so observing how people make their distinctive form of bread tells us a great deal about their approach to life in general.  The author is curious, a good observer, and respectful of the people she visits;  so not only are her stories fascinating, but she's able to take us into situations where tourists are rarely welcome.  I was favorably impressed with her chapter on horno bread:  when it turns out that the pueblos aren't eager to welcome yet one more travel writer, she respects their wishes and adopts a low-key approach rather than becoming invasive (or writing a whiny &quot;my bad experiences with the Indians&quot; piece, which seems to be a far too common practice!).  (I should add that horno bread varies widely:  the loaf she tried was uninteresting, but I recently got a loaf from San Felipe pueblo that's right up there with the boutique farm breads.)  As a native of the San Francisco Bay Area, I was sorry that Seligson didn't explore sourdough in more depth, although, as she notes briefly, commercial starters have taken their toll (so it's not just cranky old age that makes me insist that &quot;it doesn't taste as good as it used to&quot;!).  But that's just a quibble;  in general, the book is fun to read and surprisingly informative, and I recommend it highly.	2003-03-25
US	52818926	R5HWD3AXJSPK7	067946316X	785514003	Making a Literary Life: Advice for Writers and Other Dreamers	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Engaging and very useful	Most \\"how to become a writer\\" books leave me cold, and I admit to never having read one of Carolyn See's novels (someone once gave me a copy of \\"Golden Days,\\" and I lost interest on about p. 10).  But a friend recommended this book to me, and to my surprise I was hooked from the first paragraph.  Ms. See must be a terrific writing teacher:  she knows how to get and keep your attention with humor, pithy bits of wisdom, and the occasional juicy anecdote about a Famous Writer; but along with this, she conveys an amazing amount of practical, useful information about the literary life and how to make it yours.  Her remarks on the \\"postpartum depression\\" that follows completion of a book, and on how to handle rejection, were reassuring:  writers' guides usually don't go into the emotional ups and downs of the writing/publishing process, but she's been through it all more than once, and is willing to share what she's learned.  Her brief chapters on creating characters, time and space, point of view, etc. are likewise full of helpful suggestions (although I disagree with her generalization that male writers are plot-oriented and female writers are character-oriented:  consider, for example, Agatha Christie!).<br />While I strongly agree that the best way to become a writer is to WRITE, I find See's \\"1000 words, 5 days a week\\" formula to be no more or less useful than Julia Cameron's \\"morning pages\\" -- it's a good way to get started if you don't already write;  but if (like me) you're a closet novelist and an inveterate journal-keeper, you'll have figured out your own writing rhythm by now (first thing in the morning, I can't even hold a pen, let alone form a sentence!).  Her remarks about associating with people who support your writing are valuable, too:  if you aren't getting encouragement from your family and friends, find it elsewhere; don't waste your effort trying to convert them.<br />On the other hand, I think that See's \\"polite notes\\" suggestion may create a monster.  Years ago, Richard Bolles opined that a job-seeker should set up \\"informational interviews\\" with companies he/she is interested in working for;  I had a corporate job at the time, and found myself pestered with an endless procession of bright-eyed aspirants seeking \\"just an informational interview\\" (yeah, right).  Then there was the \\"networking\\" mania a few years later, which left me, after every business gathering, with a pocketful of business cards from people who had otherwise made no impression on me ...  I think it's a great idea to let a writer know that his/her book has made a difference in your life by sending a note (and/or writing a good review on Amazon.com!), and, if you're focusing on a particular magazine or press, it's good to cultivate a relationship with an editor.  But I have a horrified vision of publishers being bombarded with millions of polite little notes in 3\\"x5\\" cream-colored envelopes, and I'm sure that most of them will go straight into the trash.<br />As for the personal details:  in the valuable book \\"This Time I Dance,\\" Tama Kieves recounts how she aspired to write, but thought that published writers were exalted beings whom she could never hope to emulate.  Then she signed up for a workshop with a real, live Published Writer, only to discover that she was an ordinary-looking woman with thick glasses and a sagging hemline. I think that See's personal story makes the book even more convincing:  here's someone who has had a successful and productive literary life, but she's subject to the same emotional and domestic crises as the rest of us.  If she can, we can!  All in all, this is a great book, and one I wouldn't hesitate to recommend to an aspiring writer.	2003-03-14
US	52818926	R2CG3V1VD7BW2P	0345434927	563496613	The Gifted Adult: A Revolutionary Guide for Liberating Everyday Genius(tm)	Books	4	91	93	N	N	Positive and helpful	In general, I found this book very enlightening.  I differ in one respect from most of the &quot;everyday geniuses&quot; the author describes:  early in life I was identified as having a high IQ.  But my parents and teachers suffered from the misconception that this was an isolated trait and, in all other respects, I was a completely normal child.  It was fine with them that I learned quickly, but the qualities that they found less agreeable (my determination, enthusiasm, sensitivity, and immensely wide variety of interests) were redefined as negatives:  I was &quot;stubborn,&quot; &quot;unfocused,&quot; &quot;hasty,&quot; &quot;too emotional,&quot; and so on.  Plus the ideals that I was supposed to achieve -- get straight A's in school, be quiet and well-behaved, specify a career goal and pursue it -- didn't appeal to me in the least;  I didn't want an ordinary life, I wanted an extraordinary one.  But I grew up believing that, by refusing to squeeze myself into the slots that society provided, I was &quot;failing to live up to my potential.&quot;<br />It wasn't until recently that I learned that there's more to giftedness than a high IQ or a talent in a particular area.  Palladino's &quot;Dreamers, Discoverers, and Dynamos,&quot; Gardner's work on &quot;multiple intelligences,&quot; and many other books point out that the gifted child's mind actually works differently:  intensity, drive, and sensitivity are all part of the package (which Palladino characterizes as &quot;divergent thinking&quot;).  But the dividing line between genius and ADD is a blurry one, and our educational system's emphasis on normality and conformity often leads to defining any &quot;divergence&quot; as pathological or, at best, as misbehavior.<br />This book is a great antidote to such thinking.  The author gives a self-test that enables the &quot;everyday genius&quot; to identify his/her strengths and personality traits, and I found the results interesting.  Also very helpful are the lengthy sections on redefining your supposed negatives as positives:  you're not someone who needs to &quot;slow down&quot;;  doing things quickly is normal for you.  I was greatly reassured to discover that my burning desire to &quot;make a difference in the world&quot; didn't stem from arrogance (which more than one teacher had scolded me for), but was, rather, a typical part of the high-EvI package.  Although I don't agree with all of the author's suggestions in the &quot;self-help&quot; chapters, I think she's making an important point:  the &quot;everyday genius&quot; can live and work effectively in the world not by suppressing his/her strengths, but by practicing self-discipline to use these strengths in the service of a higher goal.  Given the scarcity of books written specifically for gifted adults (rather than children), this book fills a great need, and does it well.<br />I have only one quibble with the book, but it caused me to rate it with four stars rather than five.  The author says things like &quot;studies have shown ...&quot;, but she almost never gives the references for these studies;  the footnotes to the chapters rarely mention research at all.  I realize that she's writing a &quot;popular&quot; book rather than a scholarly work, and that many of her conclusions are based on her experience with her clients rather than on scientific research.  But I feel it would give her conclusions far more credibility if she backed them up with harder data.hy sections on redefining your supposed negatives as positives:  you're not someone who needs to &quot;slow down&quot;;  doing things quickly is normal for you.  I was greatly reassured to discover that my burning desire to &quot;make a difference in the world&quot; didn't stem from arrogance (which more than one teacher had scolded me for), but was, rather, a typical part of the high-EvI package.  Although I don't agree with all of the author's suggestions in the &quot;self-help&quot; chapters, I think she's making an important point:  the &quot;everyday genius&quot; can live and work effectively in the world not by suppressing his/her strengths, but by practicing self-discipline to use these strengths in the service of a higher goal.  Given the scarcity of books written specifically for gifted adults (rather than children), this book fills a great need, and does it well.<br />I have only one quibble with the book, but it caused me to rate it with four stars rather than five.  The author says things like &quot;studies have shown ...&quot;, but she almost never gives the references for these studies;  the footnotes to the chapters rarely mention research at all.  I realize that she's writing a &quot;popular&quot; book rather than a scholarly work, and that many of her conclusions are based on her experience with her clients rather than on scientific research.  But I feel it would give her conclusions far more credibility if she backed them up with harder data.	2003-03-04
US	52818926	R36H1WJ34PLCRQ	0767910079	573559410	A Big New Free Happy Unusual Life: Self Expression and Spiritual Practice for Those Who Have Time for Neither	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Find your own creativity	As a teenager, I once took out a couple of library books that purportedly tested your creativity.  According to them, I failed miserably because I didn't come up with the &quot;right&quot; answers, and it was years before I realized that I'd actually been TOO creative for the tests!  But their approach is typical of how narrowly our educational system defines creativity:  if you have a gift for (say) drawing or singing, you can become a professional in the arts, but otherwise creativity is irrelevant to most people's daily lives.  And, anyway, even if you feel that you'd enjoy taking a pottery class or an acting workshop, you have more important things to do with your time and money.  Nina Wise shows us how to circumvent both of these obstacles and bring creative expression into our lives.  The crucial factor is awareness, both of ourselves and of the world around us.  Her exercises give us the opportunity to know ourselves as complex beings, with bodies as well as minds and spirits, and to appreciate the beauty and complexity of even the most mundane aspects of our surroundings.  Becoming more aware isn't necessarily easy, or fun, or reassuring, but it can enrich anyone's life immensely.  I heartily recommend this book to everyone -- especially those who think &quot;I'm not creative&quot; or &quot;I have nothing to say&quot;:  you are, and you do, and this is how you find out.	2003-02-24
US	52818926	R2AE6NSZAIW75L	0345405730	905393845	Dreamers, Discoverers & Dynamos: How to Help the Child Who Is Bright, Bored and Having Problems in School (Formerly Titled 'The Edison Trait')	Books	5	83	84	N	N	I wish this book had existed 50 years ago!	I approached this book with some skepticism because it sounded like yet another excuse for bad parenting (\\"My child isn't an undisciplined brat, he's a GENIUS\\").  Instead, I was amazed to read the story of my life.  I was in trouble for my entire elementary school career for being \\"distracted\\" and \\"uncooperative\\" and not completing my assignments.  But my grades steadily improved as I became interested in my subjects for their OWN sake;  also, in college and graduate school my offbeat way of thinking actually contributed to my academic success, whereas my elementary and high school teachers rewarded conformity.  Based on my own experience, I feel that the author's recommendations are right on the button:  instead of considering \\"divergent thinkers\\" a problem and trying to force them to conform, parents should value them for their strengths, communicate with them in a way they understand, and guide them in forming the self-discipline they need to achieve academic and personal success.  It's clear to me, from many of the author's examples, that parents' problems with these children often arise from the PARENTS' expectations of themselves as much as from the child's behavior (\\"if I were a good parent, my child wouldn't act this way\\").  So I feel that the author's emphasis on trying to understand your child's thinking and putting yourself in his/her shoes was salutary:  you can't change the way your child's mind is wired, but you *can* make a big difference in how your child feels about him/herself and whether your child can make the most of his/her strengths.  I turned out OK in the long run, but many \\"Edison trait\\" children have problems all their lives;  and I know that my childhood and adolescence would have been far less stressful if this book had existed then.  I think it provides helpful guidance for anyone who works or lives with children, and it's absolutely essential reading for anyone with a \\"difficult\\" child.	2002-10-24
US	52818926	R69L0YQDI50TN	1864503793	825491300	Lonely Planet Ireland	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Best of the bunch	I've made 2 trips to Ireland in the past 2 years. Before and between trips, I looked through a number of popular guides to Ireland, and both times this was the only one I actually took with me. It's thorough, the maps are accurate and helpful, the historical/cultural background sections are useful while not being overwhelming, and the restaurant descriptions are generally reliable. The listings of hotels and guesthouses aren't exhaustive, but those change constantly -- especially the B&B's -- and I felt that their general recommendations of what areas to stay in in a particular town were helpful. (I booked most of my accommodations through the Bord Failte, either online or in person, and was almost always pleased with the results.) The book is also good at pointing out less well-known sights -- e.g., the Hunt Museum in Limerick, which is worth a visit. A guidebook can't satisfy every reader equally, but this one did a good job of recommending activities for a variety of age groups, including families with children. Their descriptions of walks, how to get to historical sites in remote places, the alternatives to the standard Ring of Kerry tours, and even where to find a laundromat in Killarney, were VERY useful to me, and I definitely don't fall into the category of \\"young and trendy\\"!	2002-10-22
US	52818926	R2OYUPLKOLJEOK	1573229083	539275432	My Dream of You	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Engaging and thought-provoking	I picked up this book on a recent trip to Ireland, mostly to occupy my time while waiting for buses -- but instead, once I started reading it, I could hardly put it down.  I'd already read her nonfiction &quot;Are You Somebody,&quot; and some of the same themes and characters reappear here, but she's woven them so effectively into the story that they don't seem intrusive.  I found the narrator inherently interesting because I'm a woman of about the same age who grew up in a partly-Irish Catholic family.  I feel that the main character is an accurate embodiment of the mind-set inculcated into many women of our generation and background:  a woman's role in life is to love and be loved, and to serve others selflessly;  and if your life isn't everything you want it to be when you reach middle age, it's ALL YOUR FAULT for not living up to the womanly ideal.  Intense self-examination is part of the process of dealing with this (&quot;Where did I go wrong?&quot;);  denial is part of it too, and the main character's ruthless analysis of her illusions and self-destructive behavior patterns was, I felt, admirably done.  The 18th-century tragic romance woven into the story is touching in its own right, but it also reflects (in melodramatic exaggeration) the narrator's thought processes and emotional states.  What I found most engaging about the book was the characters:  the author has a facility for depicting memorable personalities, and everyone -- from the narrator's family and friends, to the supporting characters in the imbedded story -- was vividly described, both physically and mentally.  I didn't feel that the ending was &quot;inconclusive&quot;:  the narrator has come to a better understanding of her own behavior, rejected yet another emotional &quot;dead end,&quot; and engaged in a selfless act of friendship that has the potential to turn into something more, so she's definitely matured in the course of the story.  All in all, I found the book highly satisfying, and Ilook forward to more fiction from O Faolain.	2002-10-15
US	52818926	R2582GCX709CXC	0874806607	4701858	Cidermaster Of Rio Oscuro	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Vivid and touching	This is a wonderful book, beautifully written and immensely touching.  The author interweaves vivid descriptions of his farm and its inhabitants -- both past and present -- with his observations on cider-making, the care of apple orchards, his wife's art, and his memories of his late, much-loved daughter.  He doesn't gloss over the irony that, after he spent years working on nuclear testing, his daughter should contract breast cancer;  but he isn't polemical about it, and by the end of the book his personal tragedy is subsumed into the rhythms of the seasons and the ongoing life of the farm.  The timeline of the book is circular -- it's not a straightforward history -- but I felt that this further emphasized the cyclical nature of life in the orchard.  I recommend the book unreservedly.	2002-07-03
US	52818926	R26DFAHY4YTM2Z	0767904613	438956014	Going on Being: Buddhism and the Way of Change	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Highly personal, but profound too	Epstein's previous two books were focused on the practical application of Buddhist insights to psychology, and specifically to the psychotherapeutic relationship.  By contrast, this is a highly personal account of Epstein's own experience as a student of meditation, and of the various teachers he has studied with over the years.  The &quot;guru&quot; relationship is more central to Buddhist practices than most Westerners are used to (or comfortable with), but Epstein has been fortunate in his teachers, and this book shows how liberating the guidance of a good teacher can be.  I also felt that he did a good job of conveying the joys of a meditation practice:  too many guidebooks, I feel, give the impression that it's a constant uphill struggle.  Developing mindfulness isn't a snap, of course, but the benefits are genuine and immediate, and that comes across well here.  It does help in reading this book to have a basic understanding of Buddhist principles and practices -- he doesn't go into much depth about them -- but you don't have to be an expert to appreciate what he's talking about.  This is less a &quot;how to&quot; and more a &quot;how it happened to me,&quot; and in those terms I feel it's excellent.	2002-05-03
US	52818926	R6E7DCKMU4IZ2	0399526781	365369187	What's Next: Women Redefining Their Dreams in the Prime of Life	Books	5	29	29	N	N	A real upper, and helpful too	I'm exactly the audience Pederson and Smith had in mind for this book:  a woman in midlife who's reevaluating her current situation and her options for the future.  Each chapter focuses on a single principle that can help in this search, e.g., &quot;trust your intuition&quot; or &quot;get support&quot;;  then the authors give real-life examples of how that principle has worked in the lives of actual women, and conclude with questions that allow the reader to gain insight into how it applies to her own life.  In general, I felt that the book was helpful to me, and offered good guidance to women (and, for that matter, men!) in just about any life circumstance.  The examples were multicultural and spanned a wide range of income and education levels.  And, although one chapter focuses on spouses, the authors didn't assume that every reader has one -- many of the women whose stories they told were single, divorced, or widowed.  The book is well written, and the authors' enthusiasm and lively style make it a real &quot;upper&quot; to read.  My only quibble is that the authors often seemed to equate &quot;spiritual&quot; with &quot;mainstream religion,&quot; usually some form of Christianity.  While I agree wholeheartedly about the importance of spirituality in guiding the way one lives, there are many other spiritual paths than joining a Bible study group or attending church regularly, and I wish the authors had made an effort to be more inclusive.	2002-03-11
US	52818926	R3UA5BO51M8EEE	0226468011	583365534	Metaphors We Live By	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Readable and thought-provoking	As a writer with a strong interest in how language shapes our view of the world, I found this book exciting and stimulating.  In a series of short and (generally) readable chapters, the authors delineate how metaphor informs the language we use to describe reality, and occasionally distorts our perception of it -- their remarks on what we DON'T notice are especially interesting.  I'd already noticed how the \\"time as money\\" metaphor pervades our language (spending time, wasting time, the value of time, etc.), so I was pleased that my rather bemused insight had been a glimpse of a larger principle!  I was less interested in the \\"what's wrong with the other guys' views\\" chapters, although the discussion of objectivism and subjectivism helped to clarify some of the issues for me.  And I think that critics who dismiss Lakoff and Johnson's work as just another shot in an ongoing, ultimately irrelevant battle between philosophy professors are missing the point:  they're picking up on an important aspect of the way language is used (and misused), and I think that learning to listen with an ear to metaphor (especially to political rhetoric) is an important survival skill for any aware human being.	2002-02-26
US	52818926	R3IYEFHOMYJBH4	1881052877	974265702	Repacking Your Bags: Lighten Your Load for the Rest of Your Life	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Generally helpful, but very couple-oriented	This book is a pleasant, amusing, readable way of addressing the major issues that confront one at midlife:  Am I living a life that accords with my values, ideals, and talents?  If not, what specifically needs to be changed so I can achieve this?  I found the &quot;unpacking&quot; metaphor especially appealing because (as an ardent traveler) I well know the real-life value of traveling light;  it was rather astonishing to me to discover how much of a pack rat I've been in other aspects of my life!  On the other hand, as a single person with many friends but no life partner (and no desire for one), I found that the authors' couple orientation rendered many of the exercises virtually useless for me.  I agree that love is an important part of a full, satisfying life, but defining love as marriage, or the equivalent, seems ridiculously confining!  Otherwise, the book is a pleasure to read, and most of the exercises gave me useful insights, so I recommend it with reservations.	2002-02-26
US	52818926	RSOA2PWKZB546	074322423X	268598033	Self Matters : Creating Your Life from the Inside Out	Books	3	36	46	N	N	New bottles, old wine	While the method that Dr. McGraw suggests for re-creating your life is a good one, and anyone who follows it will learn a great deal about him/herself, I found this book VERY off-putting for two reasons.  (1) Although it's less abrasive than some of his other books, I found his tone offensive.  As he well knows, people create a &quot;false self&quot; for the worthiest of motives (pleasing a parent or other mentor whom they honor, holding a job that's valuable to society, supporting their family), so I felt that his usual &quot;Quit whining and straighten up&quot; approach was inappropriate.  Most people who find themselves deeply discontented with their lives are NOT whining, they're gritting their teeth and sticking with it for the sake of their spouse and kids, their community, etc.  (2) He constantly berates other self-help experts, but in fact he's stolen most of his ideas from them;  he just restates them in his own (blunt) words.  While that can be valuable for readers who are put off by terms like &quot;self-actualization,&quot; I felt it was deeply dishonest of him not to give credit where it's due.  He's a good popularizer, and his &quot;I'm going to tell it like it is&quot; rhetoric is very appealing, but, really, that's ALL there is to him.	2002-01-31
US	52818926	R2JO0BRNNNUBPV	1580626076	91784656	Mini Everything Calorie (Everything (Mini))	Books	5	32	33	N	N	The most useful pocket-sized guide I've found	The Internet is my primary source of calorie information these days, but recently I needed to buy a printed guide to take on a trip where I wouldn't have Internet access.  I wanted a small book (remember those little booklets they used to sell for a quarter at the supermarket check-out counter?);  it didn't need to show calorie counts for packaged foods, as those are almost always on the package;  and it didn't need to include information about fast foods, which I rarely eat (and those change constantly anyway).  I looked in several bookstores (both large and small), and this was the only book I found that fit all my requirements.<br />In general, I've found the book extremely helpful, but it has a couple of flaws:  (1) Foods are grouped into sections according to type (e.g., Dairy or Vegetables), and then into various sub-classifications within each section.  Sometimes it's hard to figure out where to find a particular item (the Soups, Stews, etc. section is especially confusing).  (2) The cross-references aren't always helpful.  I looked up &quot;focaccia&quot; under Breads, and was told &quot;See Pizza,&quot; but under Pizza they just list &quot;Italian bread type,&quot; not the bread by itself (which is more often used for sandwiches than pizza).  It would have taken no more space to give the calorie count than it did to give that worthless cross-reference!  (3) There is NO INDEX, which would have solved Problem #1.  Still, in general this is a great little guide, and I hope the author continues to improve it in future editions.	2002-01-24
US	52818926	R3CWYI2WU28LSJ	1859841864	756824380	A Book of Migrations: Some Passages in Ireland	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Enjoyable and thought-provoking	I found this book to be an excellent read:  not only is Ms. Solnit a clear-eyed and perceptive observer, but she's also a good researcher into the historical and personal dimensions of the places she visits, and she generally presents this material very well (although a few times I felt that the background information got between her and what she was seeing).  Also, as a native Californian who grew up in the same rural-turning-into-suburban landscape as she did, I found her comments and comparisons very apt;  I'm not sure that someone from a different background would find them as relevant, but the material is fascinating and the anecdotes well written.  However, I was rather annoyed by the vehemence of her dislike for &quot;New Age types&quot; -- granted, some people who fall under that rubric are easy to scoff at,  but in that case I wondered why such a gifted and perceptive writer was wasting her time on cheap shots.  Maybe it's that she feels threatened by anyone who doesn't agree with her &quot;political activism is the ONLY way to change the world&quot; viewpoint, in which case I think she needs to examine her own biases!  Otherwise, the book is a beautifully written description of the West of Ireland (as a recent visitor to many of the same places, I greatly enjoyed her perspective) as well as a meditation on the nature of travel itself, and I feel it's well worth reading.	2002-01-22
US	52818926	R23O0ZPGAVA9YT	0553371657	10637688	Making a Living Without a Job: Winning Ways For Creating Work That You Love	Books	5	69	70	N	N	Change your thinking about what &quot;work&quot; means	My work history has ranged the spectrum from Corporate Clone to short-term contracting, and even when I was employed full-time at a &quot;real job&quot; I always had one or two other businesses going on the side.  But, like most Americans, I'd been brainwashed into thinking everyone should have a well-defined and well-thought-out CAREER, so I didn't take my &quot;sidelines&quot; seriously.  And, after thirty-plus years in the work force, I was still searching for the One Perfect Job that would best utilize my abilities and satisfy my soul.  This book changed my thinking:  Barbara Winter shows how to evaluate your talents, interests, and skills, and turn what you already like to do into multiple income streams.  She gives inspiring examples, provides tools for self-analysis, and offers encouragement;  she doesn't give specifics on how to create your perfect work, but she can't because everyone's combination of abilities and knowledge is unique.  The book started me thinking on how I could create income sources from the things I enjoy doing, and convinced me that I don't need to find that elusive Perfect Job after all.  I recommend it highly to anyone searching for a better way to work.	2001-12-05
US	52818926	R1KF5BJAHCOAH4	0312272103	733870390	McCarthy's Bar: A Journey of Discovery In Ireland	Books	4	5	6	N	N	My kind of traveler	McCarthy is the kind of traveler I aspire to be:  serendipitous, easy-going, and ready to enjoy whatever experience he stumbles into, be it an all-night family birthday party, a nose-to-nose encounter with a cow, or a sublime bit of natural or human-made scenery.  Having recently read Tony Hawks' &quot;Round Ireland with a Fridge,&quot; I found some of the pub stories repetitious;  however, McCarthy, unencumbered with either a fridge or the resultant notoriety, was able to interact more freely with the locals, so there's a less &quot;forced&quot; feeling to his anecdotes.  I spent some time in the West of Ireland last spring, and I think he's got it exactly right:  this region, for many years poverty-stricken and depopulated by emigration, is now coping with a nascent high-tech economy and the pressures of increased, up-market tourism, but the people haven't lost either their loyalty to their past or their friendliness.  Although some of his jokes grew old after a while, I felt that he was trying, mostly with success, to give some coherence to the book -- it wasn't just a random collection of anecdotes.  (And I don't think he over-emphasizes clerical abuse:  the subject was still very much in the forefront of people's minds in Ireland when I was there, so he was just echoing what he heard.)  In general, this is a thoroughly enjoyable book, and a true picture of Ireland as it is today.	2001-11-13
US	52818926	R24246WW0YZR4F	0939149222	696492745	O Come Ye Back to Ireland: Our First Year in County Clare	Books	3	15	21	N	N	Charming and well written, but ...	This is a beautifully written book, full of charming stories and vivid descriptions (as one might expect from a writer/artist team), and the story of their bumpy and circuitous settling-in process on a farm in rural Co. Clare is well told.  However, I found the book irritating and didn't even finish it.  I had expected to like it, as I've traveled in that part of Ireland (I have roots in Co. Mayo) and enjoyed it immensely, so I was surprised by my negative reaction.  After some thought, I realized why I felt that way:  the authors came to Co. Clare with clearly defined expectations about why they were going there and what their life there would be like.  So, from Day One, they were continually measuring the reality against those (understandably optimistic) expectations and finding it wanting.  As a veteran of many moves, including a trans-Atlantic one, I feel that this is the completely wrong approach to starting life in a new place.  If you come with an open mind, take the place and the people on their own terms, and learn how to find what you want within those parameters, you'll enjoy your new life much more.  (And, often, you'll find that the place has pleasant surprises you didn't even know to look for until you'd been there a while.)  The book is still worth reading for the descriptions, but an expatriates' guide it's definitely not.	2001-10-22
US	52818926	RAH4YGBKLERDN	188880923X	503216446	Black Hollyhock, First Light	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Outstanding poetry from a fabulous lady	Judyth Hill is a dynamic performer, writes smashing food reviews for the Santa Fe New Mexican, and, oh yes, composes (in my humble opinion) the best poetry in the Southern Rockies, and quite possibly North America.  This collection ranges from idyllic celebrations of life, love, and the changing seasons, to thoughtful dissections of maturing relationships, to coping with the dangerous and the tragic:  a bear at the bird feeder, her father's death, evacuating her beloved home threatened by a forest fire. The book looks terrific, too:  the cover picture, typography, and layout are gorgeous.  I enjoyed it thoroughly ... but I have one complaint.  Ms. Hill needs a proofreader:  I found several instances of &quot;it's&quot; that should have been &quot;its,&quot; and misspellings (or typos), and I felt that these detracted from what was otherwise a thoroughly class act.	2001-10-18
US	52818926	R2D0ZUUTSZZBMQ	0738204102	160578614	The Way Of Transition: Embracing Life's Most Difficult Moments	Books	5	48	49	N	N	Moving -- and very timely	I read Bridges' &quot;Transitions&quot; about four years ago, when I had just been laid off unexpectedly from my job, and I found it extremely helpful and reassuring.  So I bought this book mostly out of curiosity how Bridges himself would handle one of life's most painful transitions.  He begins by alternating between an autobiographical account of his wife's final illness and death, and more theoretical chapters discussing transitions in general.  But as the story continues with his stunned reaction to her death, and his attempts to embark on the next phase of his life, the personal and the theoretical merge.  I was impressed by his honesty -- he's candid about his self-doubts, about himself and his late wife (warts and all), and about the joys and struggles in their 37-year marriage.  This made his story all the more compelling by showing him not as the all-knowing &quot;expert,&quot; but as someone who's gained his expertise from hard-won personal experience.  As he points out repeatedly, life changes don't follow a neat, predictable pattern;  but if we embrace the process of transition and are open to what it brings, everything DOES work out eventually (his tentative, bumbling attempts at dating a casual acquaintance develop into love and a second marriage).  The book is a fascinating story, but along the way I learned a great deal about life transitions in general (every parent should read his remarks about planning your children's lives!).  And at a time when we in the US have just gone through a painful transition ourselves, and are struggling to redefine ourselves and our role in the world, I found his remarks surprisingly relevant on a larger scale too.	2001-10-09
US	52818926	R3GQI3F8LHF6EE	081293217X	22996997	Finding Your Own North Star: Claiming the Life You Were Meant to Live	Books	5	537	549	N	N	The best of its class	There are shelves and shelves of books on &quot;making your dreams come true,&quot; but remarkably few that deal with identifying WHAT your dream is.  My own background is similar to Beck's:  I bought into my parents' dream that I would have an academic career, went all the way through a Ph.D., found a teaching job -- and discovered that I felt like a fish out of water.  I was lucky enough to turn my skills into another career, but it's never engaged my heart, and if I could afford to abandon it I'd do so tomorrow without a single pang of regret.  What to do with the rest of my life?  I've been grappling with that question for several years now, and, after working through Beck's exercises, I feel for the first time that I'm approaching an answer.<br />The second part of the book deals with the change process and making your newly found dream into reality.  Other writers have dealt with this (notably Barbara Sher), but I found Beck's approach more compelling for two reasons:  (1) She doesn't gloss over the difficulties of creating a new life for yourself -- while she points out (as do many other authors) that the mere act of goal-setting can be very powerful, she also emphasizes that achieving those goals will be a long, difficult job.  (2) She sees life changes as cyclic.  Some books seem to imply that, once you've created a new life for yourself, you'll be settled for the rest of your days.  That's just not true, and I felt that she did a good job of preparing readers for the inevitable NEXT series of changes in their lives.  (Recommended supplementary reading:  William Bridges' books on transitions.)  All in all, I feel this is the best book of its type that I've read, and I recommend it highly to anyone who's grappling with these same issues in their own life.	2001-10-09
US	52818926	R2INFJPP3PV4BP	1897648022	137489611	Where the Rocks Float (Salmon poetry)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Magnificent	I'd never heard of this author until, on a recent visit to Ireland, I literally bumped into a pile of her books in a bookshop in Galway.  I picked up a volume that had fallen to the floor, read a few pages, and fell in love.  Her writing is concise, vivid, and full of powerful imagery, while her language is still accessible to the average reader.  It does help to know a little Irish history:  e.g., you can't fully appreciate the Granuaille poems without some background on their heroine (go to any Ireland guidebook and look up &quot;Grace O'Malley&quot;), but, if you know the story behind them, they're immensely moving.  I'm now an enthusiastic fan!	2001-09-27
US	52818926	R32RX24AMVX17Q	1903392136	361866598	Asylum Road (Salmon Poetry)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Wonderful writing	I was enchanted by O'Malley's earlier works, and she hasn't ceased to amaze me as she continues writing.  This book isn't as focused as some of her earlier ones (e.g., &quot;Where the Rocks Float&quot;), but the writing is terrific.  Her poetry ranges from wry humor (her comments on Connemara-wannabes) to profound reflections on the human condition.  The poem on the death of her son's dog brought tears to my eyes (I don't ordinarily wax sentimental over either kids or dogs, but this is way beyond sentimental!), and, as always, her language is sharp and vivid.  Although the West of Ireland is the subject of many of her poems, she's not just a &quot;regional poet,&quot; and I'd like to see her become more widely known.	2001-09-27
US	52818926	RPLHAT6VWQ4YH	0553378147	417228783	Building Your Field of Dreams	Books	3	49	52	N	N	Good as far as it goes, but ...	Morrissey's personal story is inspiring, and many of her suggestions about how to make your dreams reality are excellent. But I found the book disappointing in one important respect:  it assumes that you already have a firm grasp of what your dream is, and just need encouragement and guidance on how to make it come true.  Some of us aren't clear WHAT our dream is, for reasons ranging from outright brainwashing by the parents and teachers we were trying to please (&quot;you WANT to be a schoolteacher when you grow up, don't you?&quot;) to &quot;never gave it much thought,&quot; and this book is no help whatseover if that's your predicament.  I recommend instead Barbara Sher's &quot;I Could Do Anything If Only I Knew What It Was,&quot; or Martha Beck's &quot;Finding Your Own North Star,&quot; both of which will help you take that necessary first step towards identifying your dream.	2001-09-25
US	52818926	RW81JXER82E7S	0312274920	425833090	Round Ireland with a Fridge	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Charming, fun, and a real upper	I picked up this book from the library on a whim, and found it perfectly delightful.  The author makes a drunken bet to hitchhike around Ireland carrying a fridge, and decides to carry through with it.  In the course of his travels, he encounters everyone from Swan Rescue to a real live King, takes his fridge surfing, and finds new and exciting uses for a doghouse ...  The combination of Hawks' willingness to try just about anything, and the Irish fondness for embracing impossible quests (the madder, the better), makes for a fun read.  And, although he sometimes strains for a one-liner, he comes across as a likeable chap and a fun companion on the journey.  (I recently visited the West of Ireland, where I have family connections, and had a wonderful time, so this book helped me to re-live it.)	2001-09-25
US	52818926	RLAQXSX4632PG	055380121X	144975997	The Wisdom of Menopause: Creating Physical and Emotional Health and Healing During the Change	Books	5	47	53	N	N	One of THE best guides to menopause	I feel this book is head and shoulders above most of the other menopause guides on the market, for two reasons:  (1) Northrup is a practicing physician as well as an author and teacher, and she has years of experience working with women going through menopause. So her recommendations about what works, what doesn't, and where conventional wisdom may be wrong are based on considerable experience with REAL, LIVE women.  Her ample use of stories drawn from her practice, and those sent in by readers of her newsletter, helps to give weight to her opinions.  (2)  She makes the vitally important point that every woman's menopause is different -- your menopause is YOURS, not your mother's, or your sister's, or your best friend's.  The medical profession, in general, has tended to apply &quot;one size fits all&quot; remedies, e.g., prescribing Premarin to every woman whose hormones seemed to need tweaking.  Northrup, by contrast, points out that hormones are a delicately balanced system that may take several years to stabilize after &quot;the change,&quot; so it's best to determine as precisely as possible WHICH hormone(s) need tweaking, and do the minimum to prevent problems and increase comfort.   <BR> I  found her discussion of other menopause-related conditions  (e.g., osteoporosis) thorough and helpful too.  My doctor has been pressuring me to take a synthetic hormone to prevent bone loss;  my instinct has been to say no and address my (slight) problem by other means, and Northrup gave me some very useful information that supports my decision.  I questioned some of her suggestions -- e.g., while soy helps many women, it's more problematic if one is hypothyroid.  And I think she goes overboard where dietary supplements are concerned.  Still, she doesn't present herself as the all-knowing physician but as a woman who's addressing many of these same issues herself (and who sometimes makes mistakes), and I felt that that gave her much more credibility. <BR> I didn't have a problem with the occasional &quot;new age&quot; references:  she talks about using the Tarot (for example) as a means of self-knowledge, and it's as good a tool as any for stimulating reflection.  I felt, too, that her frankness about her assumptions and beliefs was a courtesy to the reader:  I've had highly infuriating experiences with doctors who were NOT aware of, or honest about, how their beliefs affected the way they treated their patients (e.g., &quot;once a woman is past childbearing, she's useless&quot;)!  In general, I felt Northrup had her feet firmly on the ground, and she's compiled a wealth of information into an easy-to-read and comprehensible volume.	2001-06-26
US	52818926	R2VRHHXRSSAG5V	0684873893	65279771	The Blackwater Lightship : A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	What love is all about	I was tremendously moved by this book. In spite of the fact that gay relationships play a significant role in the story, it's not a self-consciously &quot;gay novel&quot;; the real subject is love, both sexual and familial. The characters span the spectrum -- Lily, who was heartbroken by losing her husband young; the casually promiscuous Larry; Helen's solid marriage; her grandmother's self-sufficient widowhood; Paul's willingness to go to any lengths to reassure his lover of his commitment; and Declan, whom everyone loves, and who tries to play peacemaker between his mother, grandmother, and sister even as he's dying painfully of AIDS. I didn't feel that the ending was &quot;inconclusive&quot;: Lily and Helen have progressed from outright alienation to a point where they can envision having ongoing contact, and that's a tremendous change from the beginning of the novel. And I could relate strongly to Helen's situation: she's refused to deal with the &quot;unfinished business&quot; of her relationships with her mother and grandmother because her resentment of their past treatment of her is too strong and she doesn't want to become involved with them again; but once she's aired her grievances and heard their points of view, she begins to be able to see the love that motivated them too. The story is full of ironies: Lily, whom her daughter found unsupportive in childhood, has created a successful business based on customer support; both Lily and her mother find widowhood liberating as well as tragic; Helen's grandmother won't have a telephone in the house but tries to learn to drive; and the sexually irresponsible Larry is a caring, reliable friend to Declan. The tangled, messy subject of family love is difficult to write about convincingly, and I think Toibin has not only described it well, but created memorable characters to embody it.	2001-03-12
US	52818926	R3PDD02E3JTLE2	1562614746	458610625	DEL-Yoga Vacations: A Guide to International Yoga Retreats	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Just reading it makes you feel better!	This book is a very well-organized and well-thought-out guide to the wide spectrum of yoga retreats and workshops available, both in the U.S. and internationally.  The introduction includes brief but clear descriptions of the various styles of yoga offered by these centers, enabling you to choose a program that best suits your training and preferences.  Each center is profiled in enough depth to give you a sense of its atmosphere as well as the physical particulars (schedule, facilities, meals, etc.) -- some people are looking for a retreat-type environment, while others prefer yoga classes in a livelier resort setting, and this book helps you to avoid making an expensive mistake.  The photos are tantalizing, and both the teachers' philosophies and past participants' reactions to each program are described.  I hope the author updates the book frequently -- this type of information goes out of date quickly -- but, in my experience, it seemed very accurate (my teacher is active in the Iyengar Yoga community, so I'd already heard about some of these programs).  Reading the book is like getting a head start on a yoga vacation, and your only problem will be choosing which of the many wonderful possibilities to sign up for!	2001-03-01
US	52818926	R6O66F5NZPHBA	1582430861	259501582	The People of the Sea: A Journey in Search of the Seal Legend	Books	5	39	39	N	N	A wonderful glimpse into a different world	This is one of the most marvelous (in all senses of the word) reading experiences I've had in a long time.  Thomson's book was originally published in the 1950's, but had fallen out of print and was resurrected through the efforts of Seamus Heaney, a friend of the author's who also provides a very helpful introduction.  As a child, Thomson became fascinated by legends of seals who transform themselves into human beings (or vice versa), and in pursuit of this interest he traveled into remote areas of Scotland and Ireland where these legends were still part of the living folk tradition.  But in the 1940's the tradition was dying out:  the educational system pressured children to speak English rather than Gaelic, and listening to the radio had superseded traditional entertainments such as storytelling.  Thomson's chapters depict a way of life that was already disappearing;  he conveys not only the stories themselves but the entire &quot;flavor&quot; of the storytelling -- the people who tell them, the phraseology they use, their audiences, and the smoky cottages and fishy seaside shacks where the stories are told.  His summary of the seal legends is fascinating, but the greatest pleasure of the book, for me, was its evocation of the world in which the legends arose.  I can't recommend this book highly enough.  (Suggested listening to accompany the final chapter:  &quot;The Song of the Seals&quot; from Matt Molloy's album &quot;Shadows on Stone.&quot;)	2001-02-26
US	52818926	RJF8UYMSO1XDR	1570428069	63087292	Making a Life, Making a Living: Reclaiming Your Purpose and Passion in Business and in Life	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Inspiration for the prosperous	<BR>I listened to the audio cassette version of this book, so I can't judge whether that represents the full contents.  But, based on what I heard, I felt the book was uneven and often rather superficial.  There was a lot of focus on people like Albion himself, who achieved all the trappings of &quot;success,&quot; but felt that their lives lacked meaning and abandoned their careers for more personally satisfying work.  To which I found myself saying, &quot;Nice, if you can afford it.&quot;  Yes, most families would rather have a happy parent who loves his/her work than a Jaguar and a mansion on the hill ... but if one is a single parent with little education, trying to raise two kids and pay the rent, ditching that soul-deadening job for something more &quot;meaningful&quot; isn't really an option.  While I feel that Albion is doing a valuable service by helping the movers and shakers of corporate America redefine &quot;success,&quot; he's appealing to a rather limited audience.  He did include some blue-collar examples (such as his mother, whose story really *is* inspiring), but in general his focus is on the already prosperous. <BR>   <BR> Some of his points are valuable to anyone.  I can vouch that getting a good education is paramount:  my own background is mostly blue-collar, but my parents believed strongly in education, so that's enabled me to succeed professionally without the advantages of birth and &quot;good connections.&quot;  Likewise, I share his conviction that we should live our OWN dreams and not the life someone else has planned for us.  And I couldn't agree more that we need to redefine &quot;success&quot; in other terms than power, prestige, and big bucks.  But the author's points are undercut by the preponderance of examples drawn from the already well-off:  he seems to be saying &quot;Success in conventional terms is meaningless, but you have to succeed in conventional terms first before you can go beyond it&quot;!	2001-02-12
US	52818926	R2P9WJERND8AY7	0312209428	804528178	Women of Mystery: The Lives and Works of Notable Women Crime Novelists	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Belongs in every mystery lover's library	<BR>As an avid mystery reader (and someone who's dabbled in the genre myself), I was delighted to stumble across this book in the library.  I'd already read biographies of some of the writers Dubose profiles (e.g., Sayers and Christie), but this book puts them in their social, historical, and literary context as well as describing their personal lives (which are often even more astonishing than their books).  And I knew next to nothing about some of the foremothers of the mystery genre (e.g., Anna Katherine Green), so the book was enlightening as well.<BR><BR>Dubose makes some very interesting points:  She delinates how well-regarded, best-selling authors still felt they had to &quot;rationalize&quot; or apologize for their careers -- as women, they weren't supposed to have one unless they were the sole support of their family;  or a &quot;serious&quot; writer shouldn't be writing mysteries (although many mystery writers' efforts to &quot;go straight&quot; were resounding failures).  She notes that Miss Marple's claustrophobic village riddled with seething resentments and petty crimes, which Raymond Chandler ridiculed, is actually more &quot;realistic&quot; than the world Chandler depicts, in which his detective is the lone man of integrity in a corrupt environment.  She also points out the social-commentary aspect of many writers' books, e.g., P.D. James' unflattering delineation of the modern work place. <BR><BR>I felt that the final section was comparatively weak:  the profiles of contemporary writers are uneven, and Dubose's one-paragraph summaries of &quot;other notables&quot; are rather a waste of paper -- if you've read anything by that author, you KNOW this stuff already;  if you haven't, one paragraph of sketchy biography won't convince you to!  Still, I found most of the book informative as well as entertaining, and it's a worthy addition to the library of any mystery lover.	2001-02-09
US	52818926	R1K8C6XV83XVUI	0873375831	863030418	Get a Life: You Don't Need a Million to Retire Well	Books	5	184	187	N	N	Change your thinking about retirement!	As someone who will probably retire within the next dozen years, I was beginning to wonder whether the doom-sayers were right:  I don't have a million bucks in savings or a fat stock portfolio, so was I being foolhardy in assuming that I'd have enough to live on comfortably in my old age?  This book was tremendously reassuring.  Some of the author's main points are:  (1) The difference between a happy, fulfilling retirement and &quot;waiting for the undertaker&quot; is not money but quality of life -- family, friends, good health, and meaningful activities that give you a reason to get up in the morning.  (2) It's possible to estimate fairly accurately how much money you'll need to live on after you retire, and in most cases it's nowhere near the &quot;70% of your present income&quot; that the doom-sayers insist that you need to maintain your present lifestyle.  (3) The loudest doom-sayers are the ones who are trying to sell you retirement plans!  The author tells readers how to access a free set of &quot;retirement calculators&quot; on the Nolo Press web site to assist them in financial planning, and that alone is worth the price of the book.  But what really &quot;made&quot; the book for me was his many interviews with happily retired people from all sorts of backgrounds and economic levels -- just reading about them was a real upper.  There are plenty of books on how to provide for your retirement financially, but this is the only one I know of that adequately addresses the REST of your life.  Read it!!	2001-02-02
US	52818926	R29YT4POJTJW3V	0875847706	662530901	The Art of Possibility: Transforming Professional and Personal Life	Books	5	76	77	N	N	Change your perspective, change your life	I bought this book on someone's recommendation, but it just sat on my shelf for a few months until Tom Peters mentioned the Zanders in one of his newsletters.  I read his interview with them on his web site, went home, and read their book through in one sitting.  It starts off unpromisingly:  the first couple of chapters are brief and, I felt, rather platitudinous.  But then the authors started illustrating their points with anecdotes, and it all became clear to me.  Recognizing your assumptions and how they limit you, and being willing to expand your thinking beyond them to new possibilities, makes a major difference in how you deal with the challenges in your life.  I also liked their positive approach -- too many of us get entrapped in  &quot;something's broken about me and I need to fix it.&quot;  The Zanders are certainly not the first to articulate this point of view, but I felt that their illustrative examples made it much easier to understand.  But you do have to THINK about what their stories imply;  they don't give you &quot;step 1, step 2&quot; instructions on how to apply this philosophy to your own life.  The book has already given me a different perspective on several aspects of my behavior that had been troubling me, and on that basis alone I'd recommend it to anyone.	2001-02-01
US	52818926	ROBB95Q7CUM0H	0684852861	48882658	First, Break All the Rules: What the World's Greatest Managers Do Differently	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Every business person should read this!!	This book has its flaws:  it's better at debunking current management theory than suggesting new theories, and I found some sections very repetitious.  On the other hand, I think everyone in the business world -- staff as well as management -- should read it. <BR> <BR> I've been a working stiff for over 30 years.  For many years, at every performance review, I was told that, while I was doing a superb job in my present position, in order to get ahead in the company I'd have to develop management skills.  (The unspoken assumption was that if I *didn't* try to develop them, I had no genuine desire for advancement and deserved to be &quot;stuck&quot; at a low-level position and salary for the rest of my career.)  So I'd gamely try to develop management skills and fail miserably.  The fact is that I have no interest in management, don't enjoy it, and haven't the temperament for it, but I was led to believe that my lack of advancement was &quot;my fault&quot; for &quot;failing&quot; to develop the required skills.  I finally became an independent contractor so that I could get paid for doing what I do best and not have to worry about climbing the managerial ladder. <BR> <BR> This book was very liberating for me.  Its fundamental message is that a great manager accepts each person as an INDIVIDUAL:  rather than trying to change the person's inborn character traits and habitual behavior patterns, the manager gives each person the opportunity to reach maximum potential by doing what he/she does best.  The authors also point out that most employee &quot;behavior problems&quot; are actually managerial problems:  there's a mismatch between the employee and the job, employees feel that their good work is unappreciated or that their job doesn't give them the opportunity to use their talents, and they're constantly being urged to focus on and &quot;overcome&quot; their weaknesses rather than maximize their strengths. <BR> <BR> The book doesn't give much detail on how to hire talented people or choose the right person for the job, but I don't think that's the point.  Its overall message -- that conventional management wisdom is flat-out WRONG -- is one that needs to be attended to, and they've presented impressive statistical evidence to bolster it.  (As a footnote, I eventually became an employee again for practical reasons, but was lucky enough to land at a non-hierarchical, high-tech company that values talent -- and that's made all the difference in the world in my job satisfaction.)	2001-01-26
US	52818926	R2G8PR683FR1XQ	1579542298	516963410	The Men's Health Hard Body Plan : The Ultimate 12-Week Program for Burning Fat and Building Muscle	Books	3	17	47	N	N	Well, yes, but ...	The authors' diet and exercise recommendations are sensible and presented clearly, and any man who follows them (to any degree) will improve his health and well-being.  However, I have several problems with this book:  (1) It often seems to veer into the &quot;all or nothing&quot; thinking that dooms many diet/exercise plans from the start -- either you follow this regimen religiously and develop a perfect body, or you might as well forget it.  The fact is that doing ANYTHING to improve your diet or ramp up your exercise regime is good for you;  it's better to do something than nothing.  (2) The &quot;hard body&quot; ideal is not one that most men should or can aspire to (any more than most women could aspire to looking like the latest supermodel), and it's unrealistic to hold it up for emulation.  (3) As a woman, I personally find a &quot;hard body&quot; unattractive.  I enjoy being with a man who's fit, healthy, and comfortable with himself.  But as for someone with buns of steel and cast-iron abs ... I'd rather go to bed with a ham hock.	2000-12-15
US	52818926	R328DL6650BREA	0767902076	212741517	Take Time for Your Life: A Personal Coach's 7-Step Program for Creating the Life You Want	Books	5	39	39	N	N	Practical and very helpful	In my experience, one of the biggest obstacles to changing your life is being overwhelmed by the magnitude of the task.  If absolutely everything in your life -- your job, your extracurricular commitments, your finances, your health, your domestic situation -- seems out of whack, it's easy to conclude that your problems are too enormous to be solved, and do nothing. This book is a wonderful antidote to despair.  The author shows you how to identify the specific parts of your life that are draining your energy and preventing you from achieving your dreams, and she details simple, practical steps you can take to overcome these obstacles.  I feel that her priorities are right on:  many people (especially women) are prone to let the demands of others rule their lives, so learning to take care of yourself is a crucial first step towards making further changes.  I also appreciate her insistence that YOU are the person best qualified to set your own priorities and decide what you can live without.  Too many self-help programs start with the premise that you're doing something &quot;wrong&quot; and need to follow someone else's recommendations to overcome it -- but, for many of us, that's how we let our lives get off balance in the first place!  Finally, the author's lively style and upbeat tone support her message that this isn't rocket science:  you have the ability to put your life back on the right track, and it doesn't require extraordinary intelligence or strength, just making small, specific changes in the way you live each day.  I found the book useful as well as fun to read, and I'm looking forward to reading her next book.	2000-12-07
US	52818926	R1PJNIGKWVNFIQ	0898797411	989660614	Body Trauma: A Writer's Guide to Wounds and Injuries (Howdunit Series)	Books	4	29	30	N	N	Generally very useful	Like most of the &quot;Howdunit&quot; series, this is a useful volume that every aspiring mystery writer should own.  It's full of helpful, often detailed descriptions of various types of wounds and injuries, how they're treated, and, if they're not immediately fatal, whether they could lead to death or long-term disability.  The chapter on torso injuries was especially good:  it's not intuitively obvious to a non-medical person (like me) what the consequences of a particular type of wound or blow would be, and this made it much clearer.  I liked the author's use of quotations from mystery and adventure writers to illustrate his points.  And, although the tone is fairly dry, I found this volume easier going than others in the series, mostly because he used comparisons effectively and included easy-to-understand graphics. <BR> Some quibbles:<BR> 1.  The book is very uneven.  Some chapters are detailed and comprehensive, while I found others sketchy:  for example, the description of types of gunshot wounds was a good general overview, but it didn't give enough specific information to answer the question I had.  A chapter-by-chapter list of references, or suggestions for further reading, would have been useful too.<BR> 2.  The author occasionally veers off into &quot;Here's a nifty idea for your mystery novel.&quot;  Some of them ARE indeed nifty ideas, but I'd never use them, because I'm sure the first person to read this book already has!  I think the book would have been more useful to more writers if he'd just stuck to providing the facts.	2000-10-23
US	52818926	R21V7NHZDFFYK7	089879790X	116395233	Missing Persons: A Writer's Guide to Finding the Lost, the Abducted and the Escaped (Howdunit Series)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Informative, thorough, and great fun	This is one of the highlights of the &quot;Howdunit&quot; series:  it's not only informative and thorough, but it's great fun to read too.  Besides being an experienced and successful PI, Faron is a lively writer who knows how to choose an anecdote to make a point, so the book is engrossing as well as useful.  She clearly knows the business inside and out, so she covers aspects of the subject that most of us don't know exist, and her remarks on the seamier sides of the PI's job are priceless.  She occasionally seems to remember that she's writing a book for mystery authors, and tosses in a few suggestions for plots or episodes that I found rather pointless, but these don't detract from the general helpfulness of the book.  Her more &quot;reference&quot;-oriented final chapters are less entertaining, but I greatly appreciated her summaries of what kind of information is available from a particular source and how easily accessed it is:  many books that purport to give information on how to find people are just unselective lists of sources without commentary.  And her state-by-state breakdown of PI licensing laws and legal information was great:  I'm working on a couple of mysteries set in the state where I used to live, and her guidance was very helpful.  I hope Faron keeps the book updated:  the Internet has transformed searching (for people or information), and some of her suggestions are already out of date.  But, as a whole, this book is a terrific &quot;checklist&quot; of how and why people go missing and how to look for them, and well worth reading.	2000-10-10
US	52818926	R1E805E47745G1	0898795966	653508870	Police Procedural: A Writer's Guide to the Police and How They Work (Howdunit)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	A useful reference, but not a fun read	This is a good, solid, thorough information source about police departments and how they operate:  it covers everything from how recruits are trained to the typical layout of a police station.  It also has useful outlines of how various types of cases (homicide, burglary, etc.) are approached by investigators.  And, once someone has been arrested, there's a helpful summary of the sequence of events involved in taking the case to trial and what the investigator's responsibilities are at each stage.  (I consulted a friend who's a retired Assistant D.A., and her description of this process was very close to the book's, which I felt was a good recommendation!)<br />Some cautions:<BR> 1.  This is a &quot;plain vanilla&quot; description of police procedure.  For specifics about a department's organization and facilities, whether it has specialists on staff (e.g., a fingerprint expert), and its training and promotion policies, you'll need to consult the actual police department.<BR> 2.  Ditto for legal information.  The definitions of crimes, the terminology used to describe them, the length of sentences, and other factors (e.g., &quot;three strikes, you're out&quot; laws) vary widely from state to state.  Also, there may be differences in practice between what the criminal code says and the way it's normally applied, so talking to someone &quot;in the know&quot; is mandatory.<br />Finally, I found the book VERY hard to read.  The author clearly knows his stuff, and occasionally he deviates into an anecdote ... but he honed his writing style on police reports, so by and large the book is heavy going.  I'm surprised that an editor didn't go through and, at least, break up some of his full-page paragraphs and shorten his longer sentences -- a lot could have been done with formatting and subheadings to make the book easier to use.  Also, I felt that the index was barely adequate (no cross-references, for one thing), and the table of contents is very high-level too, so it tookme a long time to find the specific piece of information I needed.  I think this is a terrific reference book that should be in the library of every mystery writer -- but it definitely has flaws.	2000-10-03
US	52818926	R337WM5ZMABPNY	1852350679	845591123	The Bacchae: After Euripides	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A fascinating rendition	Euripides' &quot;The Bacchae&quot; is an enigmatic play, written late in the author's career, and existing only in one manuscript with a few  lacunae.  Modern readers (and producers) often interpret it as a  proto-hippie propaganda piece:  control-freak Pentheus gets his comeuppance  from the god of wine and dance, Dionysus.  But it's far more complex than  that:  Dionysus is a force of nature and not a human being, and the revenge  he takes on Pentheus' family is (by human standards) cruelly  disproportionate to the offense.  I've seen the play done as everything  from a &quot;Hair&quot;-influenced musical to a flamenco performance (which  was surprisingly effective!), and I feel it still hasn't given up all its  secrets.<BR>Mahon's rendition is memorable:  his language spans a range of  tones and emotions, from irony and wry humor to the beautifully expressed  choruses and the pathos of the final scene, and this conveys the  &quot;feel&quot; of the play far better than the usual all-too-dignified  &quot;exact&quot; translations.  His anachronisms are annoying at times,  and he can't resist the occasional Irish touch (e.g., he uses  &quot;ceili&quot; to describe the Maenads' dances).  Also, I have doubts  about the stageworthiness of his musical suggestions (everything from folk  to rock 'n' roll), but he leaves the director a lot of latitude.  I feel  that Mahon's language would work well on the stage, which isn't true of all  poet-playwrights!  All in all, this is a well-written work, and a pleasure  to read, too.	2000-08-17
US	52818926	R277EJH0TXS9H2	0898795184	288372301	Scene of the Crime: A Writer's Guide to Crime Scene Investigation (Howdunit Series)	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Very readable and helpful	I'm working on a series of mystery novels and have read most of the books  in the &quot;Howdunit&quot; series.  They're all more or less helpful, but  this is far and away the best.  The other authors seemed to think in terms  of &quot;I'm going to tell you everything I know in 100 pages,&quot; so  their books often read like criminology Cliff Notes.  Ms. Wingate, on the  other hand, is a practicing mystery author and has an excellent sense of  what an author needs to know, so the book is not only full of useful  information but well-organized and fun to read (if you're not squeamish).   She's clear about her areas of expertise and non-expertise:  she has years  of experience in fingerprinting, so she's very explicit and thorough about  that, whereas in other areas (e.g., guns) she just gives a quick overview  and refers the reader to the &quot;real&quot; experts for the technical  details.<BR>I found the sample forms and reports very helpful as a guide to  what investigators are looking for, and how information is communicated  from (say) the fiber experts to the police.  I've always especially enjoyed  Ms. Wingate's novels because of how they depict the personal dynamics  WITHIN a police department, which she well knows as an ex-officer.  Her  anecdotes in this book are not only memorable, and often very funny, but  also contribute a great deal to the reader's &quot;feel&quot; for how a  police department operates in real life.<BR>In general, I feel this is the  most readable and helpful volume of the series.  I hope Ms. Wingate revises  it periodically -- the technology is constantly changing -- but as a guide  to the &quot;feel&quot; of how an investigation is conducted, the book is  ageless.	2000-07-10
US	52818926	R324FT79V9U0YR	0380808986	407290461	Living Well with Hypothyroidism: What Your Doctor Doesn't Tell You... That You Need to Know	Books	5	125	135	N	N	Very helpful and reassuring	This is far and away THE best book on hypothyroidism on the market:  thoroughly researched, chock-full of useful information, and highly reassuring.  Ms. Shomon knows her subject from several angles (as a  patient, as a medical writer, and as proprietress of an outstanding web  site on the topic), and she's done a great job of organizing and presenting  the information clearly and without unnecessary medical-speak.  I don't  feel she is &quot;anti-doctor&quot;:  I was one of the millions of  hypothyroid people whose symptoms were dismissed by a series of doctors  with &quot;get some exercise and go on a diet,&quot; until I finally lucked  into one who routinely had all his new patients get a COMPLETE blood  work-up.  It's not that doctors don't know about hypothyroidism, but their  prejudices against fat people blind them to what, in many cases, is the  obvious explanation for someone's lack of energy, puffiness, and  inexplicable weight gain.  Granted, there's still a lot that is unknown  about the genesis of the problem and how best to treat it, but I think that  doctors' bias is often the deciding factor in whether the problem is even  recognized!  If someone suspects that they're hypothyroid, the best thing  they can do is to become informed about their condition and become a more  assertive patient -- and this book gives you plenty of ammunition, as well  as moral support.  I can't recommend it highly enough.	2000-07-07
US	52818926	R2ZUX3YMY9MCNG	0802713432	654799136	Galileo's Daughter: A Historical Memoir of Science, Faith, and Love	Books	5	43	45	N	N	Thoroughly enjoyable	I picked up the book expecting it to be like &quot;Longitude&quot; -- an exposition of the personalities involved in a scientific and technical breakthrough -- and I wasn't disappointed in that.  But this book has much  more depth:  not only does Sobel give a well-researched, convincing picture  of the individuals involved, but she puts Galileo's achievements and his  persecution by the Inquisition into their scientific and historical  context.  His case wasn't a simplistic &quot;religion vs. science&quot;  debate (as it's often depicted) but a tangled web of personal vendettas,  intellectual rivalries, and religious/political authority figures with  conflicting agendas, and Sobel made it all much clearer to me.<BR>I felt  that Suor Maria Celeste came across vividly in her letters:  she was  clearly an intelligent, perceptive, and levelheaded person, capable of  taking care of her father's affairs (and writing witty descriptions of  domestic disasters in her letters to him), while at the same time she was  coping with the stresses of living in a poverty- and illness-ridden  convent.  I found the mundane details fascinating because they gave me a  feeling for daily life at the time:  Galileo may have revolutionized  science, but he also wore out his collars and had a weakness for candied  citron!<BR>I think some readers' dissatisfaction with the book stems from  the fact that Sobel didn't feel the need to spell everything out.  She  doesn't speculate at length about Suor Maria Celeste's character, just lets  the letters and the facts of the story speak for themselves.  (It's clear  to me that Galileo loved his elder daughter so deeply because they related  as ADULTS, and she gave him the unqualified emotional support he didn't  have from anyone else -- so it's not surprising that her early death  devastated him.)  I did feel that the book was more about Galileo than his  daughter, but the historical records give her short shrift compared to him,  and Sobel made the best of what was available.<BR>Although the book is  solidly referenced, it's not obtrusively &quot;scholarly,&quot; and the  appendix material (e.g., weights and measures) is useful.  I wish that the  author had provided better maps:  the 1603 map of Italy didn't show some  cities that loom large in the story (e.g., Padua).  Otherwise, the  illustrations are well chosen and add a great deal to the story.  All in  all, I enjoyed the book thoroughly, and recommend it as a painless way to  learn more about this period of intellectual history.	2000-07-05
US	52818926	R3HS0963LRF5E1	0374111197	481105340	Beowulf: A New Verse Translation	Books	5	62	68	N	N	Reawakening the sense of wonder	&quot;Beowulf&quot; is, first and foremost, a good story clad in well-crafted language.  But the distance between that language and modern English is far too great for most readers to bridge, and translators tend  to opt for either the all-too-pedestrian literal or the all-too-precious  literary.  Heaney has created a translation that not only preserves the  &quot;feel&quot; of the original as well as its meaning, but is also a  &quot;good read&quot; -- it sounds utterly effortless, and that's REALLY  hard to achieve (I speak from experience, having spent an entire semester  of graduate school translating the original Anglo-Saxon).  The poem is a  compelling tale of heroism and the marvelous, and Heaney has made it fresh  and exciting again.<BR>I was especially struck by how the hero Beowulf  &quot;grows up&quot; in the course of the poem:  at the beginning he's a  young man (albeit with exceptional wisdom and good sense) whose main  concern is his heroic reputation;  in the final episode, he's a mature,  conscientious ruler who takes on the dragon out of a sense of  responsibility to use his gifts for his people's benefit, even if the  encounter proves fatal to him.  Most translations don't convey this  progression, but Heaney's language brings it out beautifully.<BR>The  introduction is admirable too -- beautifully written, with just enough  historical background to clarify the poem's context without overwhelming  the reader.  Heaney's story of how he chose the &quot;tone&quot; of his  translation is charming, and his discussion of the continuity between  Anglo-Saxon and English dialects is fascinating:  clearly, here's a man who  LOVES language and wants to share his delight in it with his  readers.<BR>The book is a pleasure to handle, too, attractively printed and  formatted.  My only quibble is with the cover image:  it's striking, but  the poem alludes about a zillion times to Beowulf's &quot;helmet,&quot;  and, given the number of historical &quot;re-enactors&quot; around  nowadays, it wouldn't have been impossible for the photographer to come up  with a reasonably authentic helmet (that cheesy chain mail wouldn't have  stood up to Grendel's dam, let alone a dragon!).	2000-06-28
US	52818926	RXVFRVRLJPWBD	1878346407	112394510	Free Money to Change Your Life	Books	4	79	87	N	N	Life is not a game show	This is not a printed version of &quot;Do You Want to Be a Millionaire?&quot;  It's based on the assumption that you want to CHANGE your life for the better, and are willing to take action to do so.  You  have to exercise your intellect, your intuition, your initiative, and your  skills in (1) deciding which life-changing activities you want money for,  (2) selecting the best possibilities for funding them, and (3) filling out  applications, writing grant proposals, or something similar.  I found the  book a very useful compilation:  while the information is available  elsewhere, it's often hard to find, and this book not only put it all  together but allowed you to make comparisons easily.  While some of the  addresses and phone numbers are out of date, that's inevitable in any  printed reference work, and (in my experience) this book was better than  average.  If you want to transform your life, and just need the money to do  so, this book can show you how to get it.  But if you're contented to  remain a couch potato, and want to do it in a bigger house with a  wide-screen TV, sorry;  you might as well save your money and buy a lottery  ticket.	2000-06-07
US	52818926	R1CEPW9NFK695T	055310313X	438111687	Yoga and the Quest for the True Self	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Enlightening and inspiring	I've studied yoga for years (albeit only as a physical discipline), so I was attracted by the title of this book.  It started off sounding like yet another &quot;How [name a spiritual practice] transformed my life&quot;  biography, and I almost put the book down at that point -- but I'm glad I  didn't.  Cope seamlessly interweaves the story of his personal development,  and that of his fellow seekers, with clear and easy-to-understand  explanations of the philosophical and spiritual underpinnings of yoga.  His  analysis of why modern-day Americans feel alienated from their true selves  is, I feel, right on the mark, and he effectively uses his own experience  to illustrate how we all can get back on track again.  I was also impressed  with his candor and sense of balance about the Kripalu community.  When  their guru turns out to have feet (and other body parts) of clay, it would  have been easy for the community to throw out his message as well as him.   But Cope gives him credit for having been an excellent teacher, and it's a  tribute to the soundness of his teachings that Kripalu has continued to  grow in a new direction after the guru's departure.  This book is not only  a fascinating story of one man's spiritual growth, but also painlessly  educational about the belief system he espouses, and I found it enthralling  on both counts.	2000-04-21
US	52818926	R12F3SQHG08RPX	1579542417	114885171	Picture Perfect Weight Loss: The Visual Program for Permanent Weight Loss	Books	4	213	228	N	N	Good at raising awareness, but rather one-sided	I think the immense virtue of this book is that it raises people's awareness about the foods they eat:  many people blindly assume that if a food item is &quot;fat-free&quot; it's &quot;healthy,&quot; or that certain  foods are ipso facto &quot;fattening,&quot; but Dr. Shapiro pops that  bubble neatly.  And by showing that you can improve your diet by making the  right choices among easily available foods, vs. following someone's weird  (or expensive) &quot;diet plan,&quot; he's done everyone a great service.   Still, I have some problems with his approach: (1) His concept of protein  equals &quot;soy,&quot; which is fine if you're a vegetarian, but those of  us who still include moderate amounts of animal protein in our diets would  have appreciated some guidance there too. (My doctor says I'm  &quot;pre-diabetic,&quot; so I'm trying to raise my protein intake and  reduce carbohydrates, but it's hard to stick to this regimen if my only  choice is tofu!)  (2)  The implication of many of the pictures is that  quantity is more important than content -- but one reason Americans are  fatter today is that we've grown accustomed to &quot;supersizing&quot;  everything and stuffing ourselves.  I think portion control is just as  important as making the right choices.  (3) He doesn't (usually) take into  account the carbohydrate vs. protein content of the foods he compares.   Given the choice between eating only fruit or having a bagel with cream  cheese for breakfast, I'd choose the latter because I need the protein.  I  think that the book is fundamentally sound and very helpful, but I'd  appreciate it if, in future editions, Dr. Shapiro made more of an effort to  address these issues too.	2000-04-12
US	52818926	R26BKTRG2EXGBF	0684863030	622691915	The Baby Boon: How Family-Friendly America Cheats the Childless	Books	5	32	36	N	N	At last, someone speaks up for the rest of us	Although I support &quot;family friendly&quot; policies in principle, I'm appalled by the way they're usually implemented.  &quot;Family&quot; is defined in the 1950's manner as &quot;parent(s) with children,&quot; and anyone whose &quot;family&quot; situation doesn't fit the mold is barred  from taking advantage of these policies.  Many companies are generous with  time off for parents;  but a gay person who wants a day off to tend his  partner who just had minor surgery, or a single woman who needs to take her  elderly mother to the doctor, often find themselves obliged to take  vacation time because this is considered &quot;personal business.&quot;  I  completely agree with the intent of &quot;family friendly&quot; policies in  recognizing that employees have lives too -- but in practice the policies  often seem to assume that only parents have lives!  This book does a great  job of documenting these inequities, and I feel that the author's point is  a good one:  if companies continue to grant privileges to parents at the  expense of their other employees, there will be a major backlash against  &quot;family friendly&quot; policies.  I commend the author for her courage  in speaking up for those of us who aren't parents, and I hope this book  stimulates some long-overdue discussion of what &quot;family&quot; really  means.	2000-04-11
US	52818926	RALL1ZCR7072T	0767903625	142134349	Wake Up, I'm Fat!	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Laughing through my tears	My story is similar to Manheim's:  an average-weight child, I suddenly turned Rubenesque at puberty, and from then on my entire experience of life was affected by my weight.  Although I'm in a less appearance-intensive job  than hers, my career suffered from the stereotyping of fat people as lazy,  undisciplined, and self-indulgent, so I tried for years to starve myself  down to a socially acceptable shape (and just gained more weight instead!).  I admired Manheim's guts, and her ability to transform painful personal  experiences into hilarious stories.  I was also impressed by her balance:  although she faults her parents for their well-meaning but cruel attempts  to get her to slim down, she credits them for giving her the  self-confidence and the activist ethics that have enabled her to succeed in  her career in spite of all odds.  The book is a fun, easy read, but us fat  girls will often find ourselves laughing through our tears.  Enthusiastically recommended!	2000-04-04
US	52818926	R3UFORDTZ7TS1	0446673358	629048102	Second Sight	Books	5	39	39	N	N	Surprisingly down-to-earth and sensible	I've been reading up on the subject of intuition, especially as it relates to healing.  Someone recommended this book to me;  although I'm usually put off by the term &quot;psychic,&quot; I felt that Dr. Orloff's credentials were impressive enough to lend some credibility to what she had to say.   The first half of the book is mostly biographical, but   makes an important  point:  what she calls the psychic (I prefer &quot;intuitive&quot;) kept  resurfacing in her life no matter how much she resisted it, and when she  finally learned to integrate it with her personal and professional life it  enriched both.  In the second half she writes more generally about the  psychic and how it affects people's lives, and I was impressed with her  levelheadedness and good sense:  being psychic doesn't make a person  &quot;special,&quot; and like all gifts this ability can be used for good  or misused for personal gain.  Her warnings about bad psychics, and those  who try to control their clients through fear, were well taken.  Also, I  feel that her criticism of traditional psychology is right on:  psychic  experience, and spirituality in general, have been viewed for too long as  symptoms of mental illness rather than health.  Her viewpoint is not so  much &quot;religious&quot; as spiritual, and, although that may be too much  for hard-core materialists, I think most readers can relate to it.  I felt  that the concluding chapters were rather long and repetitious, but  otherwise I found the book readable and thought-provoking.	2000-03-24
US	52818926	R334DWM4WDSCRY	0875848141	104748869	Serious Play: How the World's Best Companies Simulate to Innovate	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A good read, and thought-provoking too	When I first heard of this book, it didn't interest me:  I work for a company that specializes in simulation software, and most of the books on this topic that I've seen focus on the boring nitty-gritty of &quot;how to  write a simulation.&quot;  Then I went to a Tom Peters workshop in which he  recommended this book, and decided to take a look at it anyway.  I'm glad I  did:  not only is the book well-written and easy to read, but it laid out  the questions we should be asking our clients before we agree to create a  simulation for them!  As the author points out, simulations and prototyping  are excellent tools, but they're only tools:  what a corporation chooses to  model and NOT to model is often telling, and politics and unexamined  assumptions about the business often get in the way of the learning a good  simulation could provide to a corporation.  Another point he makes that I  feel can't be over-emphasized:  prototyping and modeling are often a  process of &quot;learning from failure,&quot; so a corporate culture that  rewards only &quot;successful&quot; prototypes is cutting off one of its  most fruitful sources of innovation.  He also has a good discussion of the  tradeoff between modeling in too much detail vs. oversimplifying.  All in  all, I felt that the book was an excellent high-level discussion of the  pitfalls and benefits of simulation, and very thought-provoking.	2000-03-17
US	52818926	R8DNN2KUMD1QV	0939616173	885408770	Anatomy of Movement	Books	5	188	189	N	N	Easy to understand and very helpful	As a student of yoga and dance, I've been looking for an anatomy book to help me understand what's involved in movement.  Unfortunately, most of the books I found were encyclopedic reference tomes that overwhelmed me with information.  So I was delighted to run across this one:  because its  specific focus is movement, the drawings and descriptions cover only the  relevant anatomical details.  It's easy to understand and clear without  being simplistic.  The organization of the book makes it easy to find the  information you want.  And it doesn't just show joints and muscles;  other  relevant body parts are illustrated so the reader comprehends how  everything works together (I never understood what the diaphragm really  looks like until I saw this book!).  This is a book that belongs in  everyone's library -- it's not just for dancers or bodyworkers.	2000-03-14
US	52818926	RUS0ZV2UCXEDO	0553107143	728766759	Hands of Life : An Energy Healer Reveals the Secrets of Using Your Body's Own Energy Medicine for Healing, Recovery and Transformation	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Interesting and a good read	In general, I found this book thought-provoking and a pleasure to read.  Motz is candid, and I think she makes it perfectly clear that what she does is based on intuition, not some scientifically proven model of mind-body  interaction.  The point is that, a lot of the time, it WORKS, and it works  well enough to convince some pretty hard-nosed physicians that &quot;energy  medicine&quot; is a valuable adjunct to the healing process.  The book is  much more autobiographical and less &quot;how to&quot; than the title  implies (this is true of a number of other books on intuitive healing,  e.g., Mona Lisa Schulz's), but it's quite likely that the author didn't  choose the title!  <BR>Perhaps the most controversial part is Motz's  theories about prenatal memories -- but I don't think we should dismiss  them out of hand.  After all, we spend the first 9 months of our lives  taking in all our sustenance through the umbilical cord, absorbing whatever  hormones et al. are in our mother's bloodstream, so it's likely that the  old folk wisdom is true and we really ARE influenced by the way she's  feeling about the pregnancy.<BR>What I found most impressive about Motz's  insights is that they confirmed something I've long felt:  even if our  brains are anaesthetized, our bodies remember what happens to them during  surgery.  I recently had a colonoscopy, was &quot;out&quot; the whole time,  and felt no pain when I awoke -- but I had an overwhelming sense of having  been violated.  I think most people who have surgery experience something  similar.  But, because our bodies are viewed by most doctors as merely  mechanical objects (and, from what I observed before I went under, this was  certainly true of the team who did my procedure), our emotional reactions  are considered &quot;silly&quot; and we try to ignore them.  By contrast,  Motz's attitude towards the body is one of reverence and respect.  I think  that's an important factor in her success as a healer, and many -- perhaps  most -- doctors should take a lesson from her.	2000-03-02
US	52818926	R20TYZJS49OX24	0670879835	54684085	Orbiting the Giant Hairball: A Corporate Fool's Guide to Surviving with Grace	Books	5	56	60	N	N	I LOVE this book!	This is far and away THE most delightful book I've bought in a long time.  It's stimulating visually as well as intellectually, fun to read, and the chapters are short enough to be assimilated by even the most harried  business person.  But it's not fluff:  the points he makes about education,  the way businesses are run, and the continual tension between creativity  and corporate inertia, are crucial ones (every manager in every large firm  should read Chapter 18, &quot;The Pyramid and the Plum Tree&quot;!). And  MacKenzie's recommendations are not, as some critics have argued,  applicable only in an &quot;entertainment&quot; industry like greeting  cards:  in today's fast-paced business world, a company's most important  asset is its ability to be flexible and continually come up with new ideas;   the &quot;giant hairball&quot; of entrenched structures and organizational  habits won't cut it any longer.  While I agree that the people who most  need to hearken to this book's message are educators, I think it's equally  important for business people:  even if you've been trained (first by your  schools and then by your employers) to stifle your natural creativity and  become a good little corporate clone, it's not too late for you to  recapture what you started out with.  I wish I could rate this 10 stars!	2000-02-25
US	52818926	R3JU8F7PL49800	1885173628	362357459	Chandler's Daughter: A Lexy Connor Mystery	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A fun book with an uncommon sleuth	I worked with Truly (no, that's not a pen name) many years ago at IBM.  Although I was pleased to hear that she'd published a novel, I was a little apprehensive about reading it, lest I find myself someday in the  uncomfortable position of having to lie to her about my reactions.   Fortunately I needn't have worried.  The book is great fun:  well written,  humorous, and with engaging characters and interesting settings.  The sex  is mostly offstage, and the violence is kept to a necessary minimum, so  this definitely isn't a tale for blood-and-guts fans.  The plot isn't a  nail-biter, but it's intriguing enough to keep the reader involved -- I  kept telling myself &quot;Just one more chapter and THEN I'll go have some  dinner,&quot; but I ended up reading the whole book in one sitting.  And  the main character, who bears a (not surprising) resemblance to the author,  is a delight:  she's smart, methodical, and gutsy, but she's also a loving  friend, kindhearted, and with immense joie de vivre.  But she's unsparing  in her self-assessment, and clear-eyed about the way a fat middle-aged  woman is viewed by society, so, when she finally meets a gentleman who  appreciates her, it's doubly satisfying to the reader.  I could quibble  with a few details (wouldn't someone who was about to fly off to Latin  America be carrying luggage?), and I would have liked more physical  description of the characters -- I found it hard to visualize many of them.   But, in general, I enjoyed the book a lot.	2000-02-23
US	52818926	R2SL5ME2J46IB6	0393048136	217254911	The New New Thing : A Silicon Valley Story	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Entertaining, but not just flash	This is an entertaining, readable book that manages to convey a surprisingly clear-eyed picture of today's Silicon Valley.  I don't feel that the author overrated his subject, as Clark's achievements would be  notable in any context:  he started out as a solid technical expert, and  subsequently combined a good &quot;nose&quot; for the New New Thing with a  Pied-Piper-like ability to attract talented people and build a phenomenal  work team.  I also think he deserves considerable credit for his habit of  sharing the wealth with the engineers who designed a product;  in the past,  the only people who got rich from an invention were the executives who  marketed it and the investors who backed it!  On the other hand, the author  unsparingly chronicles Clark's less admirable behavior -- his temper  tantrums, whims, failed relationships, and years-long grudges -- so I felt  that overall the picture was a balanced one.  Much of wealth creation today  consists, not of coming up with a better mousetrap, but of convincing  investors to buy into your &quot;vision,&quot; and the stories of how Clark  did this were very instructive.<BR>I also found the book rather scary in  its depiction of how our educational system fails to &quot;connect&quot;  with the brightest students:  Clark was bored in school, became a  prankster, and eventually was expelled;  if he hadn't chanced to meet a  teacher who recognized his great talents in math, it's likely that his  ingenuity and his desire for wealth would have led him into a life of  crime.  I felt that the author's attempts to explain Clark's behavior in  terms of his unhappy family history and trying to &quot;prove  something&quot; to the folks back in Plainview were rather weak:  he's a  typical &quot;gifted&quot; person in that he has an all-consuming interest  in technology and will subordinate everything else to his pursuit of that.  (If he were motivated only by a desire for wealth, he wouldn't be so  willing to risk his own!)  Our schools are still designed to turn out  well-behaved &quot;organization men,&quot; following the 1950's model that  Lewis succinctly describes, and their failure to recognize real talent and  teach its possessors how to use it well are, I feel, a major national  failing.  <BR>All in all, this is a book that makes you think, as well as  being amusing, and I feel everyone with an interest in high technology   should read it.	2000-02-15
US	52818926	RYNGPF7JDM00Q	0385484518	725864791	Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, A Young Man and Life's Greatest Lesson	Books	4	4	4	N	N	As much Mitch as Morrie	I usually eschew &quot;inspirational&quot; best-sellers, but  I read this one because I have a beloved relative with ALS and wanted to understand what she's going through.  The deepening relationship between the two men  as Morrie's condition worsens is touching, as is the transformation in  Mitch's consciousness.  However, I felt the book was nowhere near the  &quot;complete Morrie&quot;:  being a consummate teacher, he set Mitch a  limited assignment that he knew he could handle, but the deeper thinking  behind Morrie's aphorisms remains unsaid.  It's a good story (about Mitch),  well written, and worth reading, but I'm looking forward to &quot;Morrie in  His Own Words&quot; for what Morrie was really about.	2000-01-27
US	52818926	R3PXQQSYR5EUGQ	0892814810	428756946	The Body of Life: Creating New Pathways for Sensory Awareness and Fluid Movement	Books	5	138	139	N	N	An excellent overview	This is a clear, easy-to-read introduction to the body-mind theory behind Hanna's &quot;Somatics&quot; system, and how the system works in practice.  The anecdotes he tells are engaging, and I especially liked his insistence  that the process is a collaboration:  the practitioner isn't a  &quot;healer&quot; so much as a teacher, and healing takes place because  the sufferer re-learns how to use the forgotten parts of his/her body.  I  also found his explanation of the &quot;soma&quot; concept very  enlightening:  too many thinkers (even those of the &quot;New Age&quot;  persuasion) promote the view that we are spirits trapped in bodies and that  we should hence adopt a &quot;mind over matter&quot; philosophy.  Hanna, by  contrast, insists that the two are interdependent and that what happens to  one affects the other -- in both directions.  He points out that this idea  is reflected in Zen Buddhism, yoga, and other Eastern philosophies.  (Western thinkers have tended to misunderstand it, possibly because of the  mind-vs-body dichotomy in Christian thought, but Hanna clarifies the matter  nicely.)  I also found his explanation of the Feldenkrais system and its  relationship to other methods of bodywork (such as Alexander) very useful.   Although some of the research he cites is a little outdated now, nothing he  says is (to my knowledge) contradicted by recent studies.  Despite its age,  this is still a very useful book for anyone interested in the mind-body  relationship.	2000-01-21
US	52818926	R35AWCK5AE2I41	0679762876	762993057	Tracks: A Woman's Solo Trek Across 1700 Miles of Australian Outback	Books	5	55	56	N	N	Inspiring -- really!	It's a cliche to call books &quot;inspiring,&quot; but this one really is -- not because Robyn Davidson is heroic, but because (as she points out repeatedly) she's an ordinary woman from a rather sheltered background, but  with extraordinary determination, persistence, and resourcefulness.  To  her, the meaning of her journey is that anyone can achieve whatever they  want to.  But, she tellingly points out, many of the reporters who dogged  her steps portrayed her as crazy because that blunted her message -- which,  if women took it seriously, would rock the foundations of society.  She's  completely frank about her feelings, her doubts about her journey, and the  excuses she makes to herself when she's tempted to quit;  but, to me, this  made her accomplishment even greater because she was fighting herself as  well as external obstacles.  The internal journey she underwent was as  important as the external one, and those readers who complain that there's  too much of the former and not enough of the latter are, I think,  completely missing the point of the book.	2000-01-12
US	52818926	R2TMR0V2BK8JNK	0312204787	931377968	The Skull Mantra (Inspector Shan Tao Yun)	Books	4	37	38	N	N	Heavy going, but generally rewarding	This is an engrossing story, and the author does a splendid job of bringing the setting alive.  His picture of Tibet under the Chinese administration is painful to read but unfortunately accurate, and, to his  great credit, he avoids the temptation to depict all Chinese officials as  Bad Guys;  the occupation of Tibet is shown to be painful for the more  conscientious Chinese too.  I found that the characters were a mixed bag:   Shan and his Chinese and Tibetan partners-in-investigation were fully  rounded and believable, but some of the other characters (especially the  two Americans) were one-dimensional.  The novel was rough going at times,  too:  there are long stretches where what you're reading is fascinating,  but it's hard to see the relevance of it to the investigation;  and  although the author offers a neat resolution of the mystery at the end,  some of the other possible explanations he raised were never satisfactorily  resolved.  As for the criticism that the novel's depiction of Tibetan  Buddhism is full of errors, I'm not an expert on the subject, although I do  volunteer work for a Tibetan refugee relief organization and hang around  with a lot of Tibetans.  But I know that it's erroneous to view Tibetan  Buddhism as a monolithic whole:  there are various schools of thought and  monastic traditions, and the indigenous Bon religion, which preceded  Buddhism, is shamanistic and magical.  Westerners are usually initiated  into the monastic side of Tibetan Buddhism, but the magic often looms  larger in ordinary people's lives, and I think the author did a good job of  showing that.  All in all, the novel is rewarding, but it's not the light  escapist reading that one often expects from mysteries.	2000-01-11
US	52818926	RQHDKMV0YZPOL	0385267746	323452923	The Design of Everyday Things	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A philosophy rather than specific guidelines	In general, computer software is abominably designed.  But I find most books on user interface design frustrating: they assume that if the designer just follows certain specific rules, the product will  automatically be &quot;user-friendly.&quot;  It doesn't work that way,  folks:  even if your menus are short and your use of color is discreet, the  product may still be utterly unusable.  <BR>Norman puts the focus right  where it belongs:  on the USER.  What is this person trying to do with the  product?  What is his/her level of knowledge?  How can the design of the  product facilitate what the user wants to do, instead of getting in the  way?  This is a philosophy of design, rather than a set of rules.  But the  software designer (or any designer) who absorbs this philosophy will turn  out far better products than someone who merely buys a book of rules and  follows them blindly.	1999-12-14
US	52818926	R7B9GAO1IEQO7	0679763309	251642252	An Unquiet Mind: A Memoir of Moods and Madness	Books	5	806	847	N	N	Impressive and enlightening	Over the past 20 years I've had several friends who suffered from manic-depressive illnesses.  It's abundantly clear to me that the disease is primarily biochemical and &quot;not their fault.&quot;  But I had  trouble understanding why these people refused to take their medication (or  stopped taking it after they started) and otherwise engaged in massive  denial.  Jamison's frank and well-written book was a revelation:  now I  feel I have a better sense of the seductiveness of mania, and why creative,  intelligent people are often willing to risk the lows of their illness for  the sake of the highs.  As Jamison points out emphatically, however, the  long-term effects of bipolar disorder can be devastating mentally and  physically (not to mention the financial and personal fallout) -- hence her  crusade to understand the basis of the illness, and learn how to fine-tune  the medication so that the sufferer achieves equilibrium without deadening  the sensitivity and creativity that often accompany this disease.  I'd  already read &quot;Night Falls Fast,&quot; which is also excellent, but  this book set out the personal story behind Jamison's research interests.   While she insists that love alone won't cure the disease, it's also clear  that, without the love of her loyal friends, this intelligent, talented,  and articulate woman might never have made it through the more difficult  years, let alone become a respected authority in her profession.  Anyone  who suffers from bipolar disorders, and those who love them, should read  this book.	1999-12-07
US	52818926	RLUVQ3QROPH10	0679767207	408762239	So Long, See You Tomorrow	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Beautifully done, and to the point	This is an almost perfect short novel:  concise, well written, and immensely touching.  The adult situation it recounts could have become melodramatic, but the book makes it genuinely tragic by showing its effects  on the two boys on the periphery.  The narrator's adult regret for the  effects of his childhood thoughtlessness is very true to life too -- we've  all been there! -- and I found that the book echoed in my mind long after I  put it down.  I feel that this is an underappreciated masterpiece that  deserves to be much better known.	1999-11-02
US	52818926	R1NPCSI7LE6LIY	0892966742	100200360	The Course of Honor	Books	3	13	16	N	N	Could have been MUCH better	The (true) story on which this novel is based -- the decades-long love affair between the impoverished nobleman/unlikely emperor Vespasian and the freed slave Caenis -- is inherently compelling, and the author of the &quot;Falco&quot; mysteries seems like the perfect writer to retell it. Unfortunately, I felt that the novel fell flat. Choosing to tell the story in the third person (why?) meant that Davis spent far too much time on rather dry exposition -- in the first few chapters there were about 10 pages of background for every page of dialog. She falls into this same habit in some of the Falco novels (e.g. &quot;The Iron Hand of Mars&quot;), but there the expository bits are more fun because they're told in the narrator's cynical, wise-cracking voice. The historical characters are engaging enough when they're allowed to speak for themselves -- the straight-arrow Vespasian (I kept seeing John Wayne playing him), the loving but all-too-intelligent Caenis, her sorely tried royal mistress Antonia -- and even the made-up ones, such as her gold-digger friend Veronica and her manipulative mentor Narcissus, have considerable depth. Occasional scenes -- such as Vespasian's triumphal return from Britain -- came vividly alive, and the conclusion kept me up past my bedtime. But I suspect that Davis, in trying to write a &quot;serious&quot; novel rather than Philip Marlowe in a toga, went too far in the opposite direction. She seems to have forgotten a couple of basic principles of fiction writing: (1) A novel should be entertaining, and (2) Show, don't tell. I would have found the story much more absorbing if it had been told from Caenis' point of view; I'm sorry Davis decided to play it safe and go for Victorian omniscience and excruciating dignity.	1999-11-02
US	52818926	RFQNYS80I1SPR	0609601083	332661030	The Wisdom of Depression: A Guide to Understanding and Curing Depression Using Natural Medicine	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Yes, but ...	I have mixed feelings about this book.  On the one hand, the author makes excellent points about the origins and function of depression:  how it can  be a wake-up call, a learning experience, or the body's way of ensuring  that someone gets the rest and the caretaking he/she needs.  I also felt  that his &quot;holistic&quot; approach to depression is right on:  One of  my best friends leads a life that would depress the cheeriest soul alive,  and takes massive doses of Prozac to cope with it.  While she had problems  with depression long before she painted herself into this corner, I think  the drug is just suppressing the anger and frustration that might stimulate  her to get out of it.  On the other hand, several chapters struck me as a  sales pitch for St. John's Wort, and I have some real problems with that:   the potential for abuse, the dangers of self-medication and unpredictable  dosages, etc.  In general, I think the book has some excellent advice for  depression sufferers, but I'd advise readers to view the St. John's Wort  sections with extreme caution.	1999-11-01
US	52818926	R2NTBW1P8ECL44	0812929217	298656952	It's Nobody's Fault: New Hope and Help for Difficult Children and Their Parents	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Right on the button	I don't have a &quot;problem child,&quot; but I do have a close relative with an obsessive-compulsive disorder, and someone recommended this book to  me for information on that subject.  His discussion was brief but thorough  and to the point, and I learned some techniques that were very helpful to  me in dealing with my immediate problem.<BR> I was also favorably impressed  with the author's emphasis.  Far too many parents, faced with a difficult  child, get hung up on what THEY are possibly doing wrong.  So they try all  the &quot;good parenting&quot; techniques they hear of;  but, in their  eagerness to redeem themselves as parents, they often begin to view their  child as synonymous with his/her problem, and thus almost as an adversary.   Dr. Koplewicz focuses squarely on (1) identifying the child's problem and  (2) taking measures to deal with it.  He makes it clear that, for most  children, their disorder is as painful to THEM as it is to their parents,  and their parents' mistrust and belief that the child is somehow  &quot;using&quot; the problem to manipulate them just makes it harder to  solve.  I'd recommend this book highly to all parents as a glowing example  of how to get your priorities right!	1999-10-29
US	52818926	RWJIHT0VP10EV	0451173392	258285498	The Carbohydrate Addict's Diet: The Lifelong Solution to Yo-Yo Dieting (Signet)	Books	1	7	18	N	N	Ho, hum	Diet fads run in cycles.  Back when I was a teenager, trying to diet myself down to a weight that Nature never intended me to be, calorie counting was king.  Then we had low-carb, high-protein diets;  then it was liquid protein;  then protein got a bad rap and everyone was into  carbohydrates;  now protein seems to have made a comeback.  High-fat foods  have come, gone, and returned.  Sugar was out, then in again.  And  meanwhile Americans just keep getting fatter -- doesn't anyone see the  connection?  This series of books would have sunk without a trace too if  Oprah hadn't proclaimed it her latest discovery.  I predict that it'll go  the way of all her other fad diets, and I hope that she realizes what she's  doing to herself before she gives herself a truly serious health problem  (being overweight is NOT a serious health problem, in spite of what all the  diet-doctor-sponsored &quot;research&quot; would have you believe).  This  book, and the others in the series, have absolutely NOTHING new to say.   Don't waste your money.	1999-10-12
US	52818926	R34PDGI0H872IJ	0061000299	848405681	Listening Woman (Joe Leaphorn Novels)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	One of his best, but ...	This is generally a wonderful book, with a memorable opening scene, an intriguing set of characters, and a magnificent (and beautifully described) setting.  The plot is well thought out and full of surprises, especially  the explosive (literally and figuratively) climax.  However, Joe Leaphorn  is a little too Man of Steel for me near the end:  he hikes a dozen miles  across the desert, gets bitten by a dog, falls down a cliff, etc., etc.,  and still has the energy left to perform a heroic rescue ... GIVE me a  break!!  In general, though, this is a great story, and I'd put it among  the top four or five of Hillerman's mysteries.	1999-10-06
US	52818926	R39975DY09TJ40	0061099155	474082286	People of Darkness (Jim Chee Novels)	Books	5	53	54	N	N	One of my favorites	To me, this is is Hillerman's second-best mystery (after &quot;Dance Hall of the Dead&quot;).  Introducing a new detective seems to have sparked his creativity, and his cast of characters is one of the best he ever created  (although he seems to have recycled some of them in later books).  His  hired killer is a psycho but still sympathetic, the fragile blond  schoolteacher is tougher than she looks, and even the minor characters  (such as the lab technician in the first scene) are well done. Jim Chee is  a complex, interesting personality from the very beginning.  As usual, the  various settings in which the story takes place are vividly described.  And  &quot;how he done it&quot; involves, in my opinion, one of the cleverest  murder weapons in the history of the detective novel.  This is a winner all  the way through.	1999-10-06
US	52818926	R33T2XKYHLQWK7	0451404211	845332577	Woman Who Married a Bear	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Enjoyable and fascinating	I enjoyed this book a lot.  The Alaskan setting is beautifully described by someone who knows it intimately.  The characters are (mostly) unique and memorable;  even the potentially cliche-ridden drunken P.I. Younger has a  complicated and intriguing background. The writing is economical in the way  good poetry is economical -- comparisons with Raymond Chandler are apt, as  he's one of the few mystery writers who manage to achieve the same balance.   And the animal characters -- ravens, bears, eagles -- are used brilliantly  to enhance the drama of the story.  I found the mystery itself rather weak:   of COURSE the guy who's doing time for the crime didn't commit it, and the  isolated setting means that the number of suspects is necessarily limited.   The P.I.'s elderly client doesn't tell him the eponymous legend until very  late in the book, but that was a wise decision on the author's part, as it  clearly gives away who done it.  But the climax is still exciting enough,  and calls on all of Younger's considerable resourcefulness.  I'm definitely  planning to read the rest of the series.	1999-09-27
US	52818926	R28M4WO42V4DM0	0874779375	246791370	The Right to Write	Books	4	78	84	N	N	A good place to start	I began my career teaching Composition at a state university campus.  One day I was chatting with a colleague, a crusty old veteran who was the embodiment of everyone's Least Favorite English Teacher.  She declared,  &quot;I don't care if they write only one paper all semester -- I make them  rewrite it until it's PERFECT.&quot;  I countered, &quot;I don't care if  they don't write one perfect paper all semester -- I make them keep  WRITING.&quot;<BR>This explains what I like about Julia Cameron:  she's  taken a whole generation who were intimidated by teachers like my  ex-colleague into thinking &quot;I'm not a writer,&quot; and made them into  fluent, passionate, comfortable writers.  Even for the experienced writer,  her suggestions are great for jump-starting you at times when the inner  censor is remorseless or you &quot;just don't feel like writing.&quot;  And  she's an expert at puncturing your &quot;I can't write because&quot;  excuses;  those sections alone are worth the price of the book.  I found it  much easier going than &quot;The Artist's Way&quot;:  she's kept it  concise, and downplayed the religion and the Twelve-Step-isms that some  readers (myself included) found off-putting;  but at the same time she's  provided more of the practical and powerful exercises that were, I feel,  the great strength of that book.<BR>That said, I still found this book  somewhat unsatisfying for two reasons.  First, although the scenes from her  daily life are excellent examples of vivid description, I could have done  with a little less of her idyllic existence in the mountains and more  practical suggestions for those of us who don't have total freedom to  structure our writing time!  And second, although her method provides a  wonderful way for anyone to get started as a writer, she doesn't answer the  next pressing question:  &quot;Now that I know I CAN write, where do I go  from here?&quot;	1999-09-24
US	52818926	R2U5HAN2VNMTOX	0061097853	66914180	The First Eagle	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Not one of his best, but still pretty good	I've been disappointed in Hillerman's recent Leaphorn/Chee novels:  I felt that &quot;Sacred Clowns&quot; had a truly lame plot, and &quot;Fallen Man&quot; was better plotted but often read more like a rough draft than a  finished novel.  This mystery focuses on a compelling issue, the characters  and settings are vivid, and both Chee's emotional roller-coaster and  Leaphorn's developing relationship with his lady friend are well done.   Unfortunately, if you're familiar with Hillerman's previous novels you'll  figure out who done it, and why, about 1/3 of the way through -- but that  doesn't necessarily ruin the book, as in these novels most of the pleasure  is in watching the characters themselves figure it out!  This isn't one of  his best, but it's still head and shoulders above the past few novels in  the series.	1999-09-13
US	52818926	R15H69DKQ490CT	0786884126	889179542	Outsmarting the Midlife Fat Cell: Winning Weight Control Strategies for Women Over 35 to Stay Fit Through Menopause	Books	5	125	134	N	N	The ONLY &quot;diet book&quot; I'll ever recommend	I'm a fat acceptance advocate who hates diet books on principle.  Someone suggested I read this book anyway, and I'm glad I did.  It confirmed the  conclusions I've come to on my own after many unhappy years of struggling  with an illusory &quot;weight problem&quot;:  diets make you fatter,  skipping meals is bad for you, there are no &quot;bad foods,&quot; you  should listen to your body and eat when you're hungry, and the only way to  stay in shape is to exercise.  Her theoretical explanations made a lot of  sense, and her attitude was reassuring:  this is the way a woman's body  WORKS, and if you gain some weight or change shape in midlife it's not  because you're &quot;doing something wrong.&quot;  I don't agree with her  completely:  I think she's unnecessarily judgmental about &quot;emotional  eating&quot; (if you're under stress and can't do anything else to  alleviate it, is it better to overeat for a few weeks or to take up  smoking?).  Also, she seems to feel that the only way to build strength is  to work out with free weights, but many other exercise programs can have  the same effect -- even yoga, if you select the right asanas to practice.  Still, in general, hers is the ONLY sensible approach to managing one's  weight that I've ever read (any diet book that lists the National  Association for Fat Acceptance as a &quot;support group&quot; is all right  with me!), and I'd like to recommend that every woman (fat or thin) read it  as she enters midlife.	1999-09-13
US	52818926	R1CBVEZ5XSS5TL	0385333382	235106446	The Odd Sea	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Worth a read, but not all THAT good	I enjoyed the book, in general:  I felt that the family dynamics were well portrayed, the characters were appealing, and the way that everyone gradually transmutes the memory of Ethan according to the cast of their  individual minds was very believable.  As someone unfamiliar with the area  where the story takes place, I got a good sense of the &quot;feel&quot; of  living there -- not just the appearance but the smells, sounds, and tactile  sensations of the towns and the woods.  On the other hand, the writing  style that everyone raves about didn't strike me as all THAT wonderful.   There isn't much difference between the way Ethan writes in his diary and  the way the narrator describes things;  there were a couple of pointless  repetitions;  and the phrase &quot;the odd sea,&quot; which the author says  early on became his family's shorthand for the place where lost things end  up, is used only once or twice more in the novel -- I felt the author could  have done a lot more with this theme without being heavy-handed.  At times  I felt I was reading a draft rather than a finished work, e.g., some of the  &quot;linking&quot; sections, although the crucial conversations or thought  processes they linked were usually very well done.  I think the book is a  pleasurable way to spend a couple of hours (it's short and easy to read),  but it didn't knock my socks off.	1999-09-03
US	52818926	R25VPRVNOG9ERY	0140092501	887185706	Chaos: Making a New Science	Books	4	112	125	N	N	Fun, but not terribly deep	I read this book when it was first published, and it was the beginning of a journey that led me to my present job (at a Santa Fe Institute spinoff  company), so I must admit to feeling a debt of gratitude to Gleick!  He  writes engagingly about the people who founded &quot;chaos theory&quot; and  explains their discoveries in easy-to-understand terms -- other  &quot;popular science&quot; works (e.g., &quot;Goedel, Escher, Bach&quot;)  from the same era were beyond me mathematically, but I feel that Gleick  gave me a clear and accurate sense of what the theory was all about.  On  the other hand, he seems to focus too much on the &quot;who&quot; and not  the &quot;what&quot; of chaos theory, a habit that, unfortunately, has  persisted in other authors' books on the subject -- granted, some amazing  &quot;characters&quot; work in the field, but I think emphasizing their  eccentricity detracts from the solid science they're doing and the  real-life applicability of the theory.  To me, the best overall  introduction to this subject is Mitchell Waldrop's &quot;Complexity&quot;;   Gleick deserves credit for piquing everyone's interest, but this book is,  to my mind, only an appetizer.	1999-09-02
US	52818926	R3FV03TW38PQM1	0861710479	63820819	Buddhist Symbols in Tibetan Culture : An Investigation of the Nine Best-Known Groups of Symbols	Books	5	52	53	N	N	A wonderful short introduction to Tibetan Buddhism	I'm not a practicing Tibetan Buddhist, but I've acquired a fair amount of knowledge through osmosis:  I do volunteer work for a Tibetan refugee relief organization.  One slow afternoon in our shop, I picked up this book  to improve my knowledge of the iconography in the graphics we sell, and was  blown away.  Not only has the author written a clear, readable explication  of the symbolism, but the book is also a terrific introduction to  fundamental Tibetan Buddhist beliefs.  The average Tibetan may not be able  to elucidate the intricacies of the sacred texts, or practice the stylized  form of debate that forms an important part of a monk's training.  But the  book gives great insight into what this average Tibetan actually believes.   Now I feel I have a better understanding of how the Tibetans' Buddhism has  sustained them through persecution, exile, and attempts by the Chinese  government to stamp out their culture.  (And the Fur-Bearing Fish isn't a  refugee from a Dr. Seuss book, but a symbol with profound meaning.)  This  is a great little book, and I recommend it enthusiastically.	1999-08-25
US	52818926	R2SO6V8UOGC0Q3	0449909719	88792264	What You Can Change ... and What You Can't: The Complete Guide to Successful Self-Improvement	Books	5	13	14	N	N	One of the most cheering books I've ever read	Some readers find this book &quot;depressing&quot; because it seems to imply that their efforts at &quot;self-improvement&quot; are doomed.  I found it cheering because it confirms what I've always felt:  we are what  we are, and most of our life problems arise because we're led to believe  that we can't or shouldn't accept ourselves as we are.  For example, my  family tree is full of women who, by modern standards, would be considered  &quot;morbidly obese&quot; -- but they ate well, stayed physically active,  and lived healthy lives well into their 80's and 90's.  I have the same  body type, but at age 12 I was labeled &quot;overweight,&quot; so I spent  the next 25 years on the dieting roller-coaster before concluding that I  hadn't been too fat in the first place (I was just too buxom to fit my  doctor's idea of how a 12-year-old &quot;should&quot; look).  Doctors are  still nagging me about my weight today, but I lead an active life, eat a  balanced diet, and am healthy as a horse ... which drives them nuts!  I  also totally agree with his analysis of &quot;alcoholism&quot; -- in most  cases I know of, excessive drinking was either learned behavior (a type of  machismo) or a response to feeling &quot;trapped&quot; by life in some way.   If the drinking has become life-threatening, then something like AA can  help solve the immediate problem ... but unless the long-term problem is  addressed too, it's all too easy for lapses to occur.  Furthermore, I've  known people who became &quot;addicted&quot; to AA meetings rather than  trying to fix what was wrong in their lives, and I don't see that as much  of an improvement!  All in all, this is a very balanced, sensible, and  encouraging book, and I recommend it highly.	1999-08-20
US	52818926	R3T8P3NWSAFV37	0679741410	608603974	Writers Dreaming: 26 Writers Talk About Their Dreams and the Creative Process	Books	5	34	35	N	N	Fascinating and fun to read	Although this book is centered on the subject of how writers use dreams in their work, it contains a great deal of fascinating anecdotal information about the process of writing in general.  As a professional writer and a  former writing teacher, I'm constantly amazed at the misconceptions people  have about the writing process -- e.g., &quot;good writers get it right the  first time and never have to revise,&quot; or &quot;there's one RIGHT way  to write&quot; -- and this book does a lot to dispel those misconceptions.   It also implicitly points out that writing is a continual dialogue between  the irrational, creative, dream-logic part of the mind and the rational,  critical, linear part, and that the most successful writers are those who  can balance the two.  Epel has done a great job of shaping the authors'  comments into easy-to-read essays, and I was impressed that she avoided the  temptation of showcasing herself as the all-knowing interviewer.  This is  not only a fun book to read, but very informative too.	1999-08-17
US	52818926	RG40CM05JMUOM	0892815426	181936793	Creating the Work You Love: Courage, Commitment, and Career	Books	5	76	76	N	N	Work vs. career -- there's a difference	Far too many career planners start from the premises that &quot;your life's work&quot; equates to &quot;job,&quot; and that your  &quot;strengths&quot; -- your talents, your skills, your personality traits  -- are an infallible guide to which job you should choose.  Jarow is one of  the rare advisors (Barbara Sher is another) who takes a different approach:   your &quot;life's work&quot; may not slot neatly into a job or a  predefined career path;  furthermore, your own intuition and self-knowledge  are a more reliable guide to what you &quot;should&quot; be doing in life  than conventional aptitude tests.  His approach to discovering one's life  path may smack of New Age eclecticism (the chakras, the Medicine Wheel).   But I think he's picking up on something that other authors (e.g., Caroline  Myss) have discovered:  the cross-cultural similiarities between these  modes of self-analysis.  This implies that there's another way of knowing  that our Western, linear, &quot;rational&quot; approach doesn't address,  but that in matters of the heart might be a better guide to what  &quot;really matters&quot; and what's &quot;right&quot; for us.  If you  take the time to complete his exercises thoughtfully, giving them the care  and attention they deserve, you'll learn a great deal about what's truly  important to you and where your life path should go.  (I was talking  yesterday with a middle-aged woman who recently made some major life  changes.  She remarked, &quot;In my career, I zigged when I should have  zagged, and I've been miserable for the last 8 years!&quot;)  This book  will help keep you from zigging in the wrong direction -- or, if you're in  the same boat as my friend, it will help you zag back to the right path.	1999-08-12
US	52818926	R2F27SQO23DL3T	0670878839	302291051	The Alphabet Versus the Goddess: The Conflict Between Word and Image	Books	3	36	42	N	N	Intriguing but unconvincing	Shlain has an interesting thesis, his scholarship is impressive, and the book is fun and provoking to read.  But his argument ultimately fails (I feel) because the right brain vs. left brain dichotomy he bases it on  simply doesn't agree with the facts:  although it's abundantly clear from  recent research that the two halves of the brain have their areas of  specialization, it's also clear that their differences aren't as marked as  people commonly think, and that the two &quot;brains&quot; need to work  together or we can't make sense of the world around us.  (See Robert E.  Ornstein's latest book, &quot;The Right Mind,&quot; for a concise summary  of the current state of our understanding.)  Shlain's discussion of how  language shapes our thought processes is pretty solid (and has been echoed  by other writers, e.g., David Abram and Thom Hartmann), although I think he  takes it too far:  research shows that a person whose language has 20  different words for &quot;snow&quot; doesn't actually SEE snow in a  different way than someone whose language has two or three;  he just has a  better vocabulary in which to describe it.  In general, I enjoyed reading  the book, but I think it needs to be taken with about a pound of salt  because its central thesis is flawed.	1999-08-04
US	52818926	R1WSPISLX0TN43	0156001411	770567673	The Gospel According to Jesus Christ	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Outrageously good	Everyone compares this book to &quot;The Last Temptation of Christ,&quot; but I found it closer in spirit to Timothy Findley's &quot;Not Wanted on the Voyage,&quot; especially in its fusion of compassion with grim realism  and clear-eyed awareness of what organized religion is really all about.   It's beautifully written (although I'm sure the translation falls far short  of the original), and the characters are so vividly realized that the  reader genuinely cares about them and grieves at their tragedies.  Saramago  plays off the familiarity of the story to surprise us continually.  And, in  spite of the story's inevitable tragic ending, he manages to make a  powerful statement about human spiritual integrity, vs. what a religion (as  an institution) tries to make of it.  (As a footnote, I'm a former Catholic  raised in a strongly Portuguese community, so I know exactly where Saramago  was coming from!)  A very well-deserved Nobel Prize.	1999-08-02
US	52818926	R3E91UYVE6QOVB	0312089015	799928793	Swift Justice: Murder & Vengeance In A California Town	Books	5	21	22	N	N	A telling snapshot of the era	I'm a native of San Jose, and when I grew up there in the 1950's the tale of the Hart kidnapping and its aftermath was still fresh in people's memories -- but it was told only in whispers.  (My mother, who was at  church downtown on the evening of the lynching, vividly remembered the  &quot;feeling in the air&quot; and the groups of men gathering on street  corners, but always spoke of the lynching itself as something shameful.)   So I found this book fascinating, not only for illuminating a dark corner  of history, but for the vivid picture it paints of San Jose in an era when  it was still, in essence, a small town.  The fact that many of our most  distinguished public figures shared a dark secret was, I'm sure, important  in our civic psyche, and Farrell effectively conveys the repercussions of  the lynching for the city as a whole.  I knew him to be a good reporter and  writer (having read his articles in the Mercury News all my life), but in  this book he outdoes himself.  This is not only a well-told story but a  fine work of social history, and doubly important now that Silicon Valley  has all but obliterated the traces of what San Jose used to be.	1999-07-27
US	52818926	R2GND6Y9O0ZWP1	0060193395	744363528	Body for Life: 12 Weeks to Mental and Physical Strength	Books	1	7	10	N	N	Wrong, wrong, wrong!	Although Phillips' exercise regimen is, I think, a reasonable one, and he's clearly a good motivational speaker, I found the book infuriating for two reasons:<BR> 1)  It's a prolonged advertisement for Phillips'  nutritional supplements business.  It IS possible to be fit and healthy  without taking all that overpriced stuff!<BR> 2)  His definition of  &quot;fit&quot; is limited to those who are buffed and slender.  This isn't  unique to him, of course.  But the idea that you have to be buffed and  slender or you're not &quot;fit&quot; has, I think, discouraged a lot of  people from pursuing exercise regimes that are more appropriate for their  personal needs.  The goal, after all, is not just &quot;fitness&quot; but  HEALTH, and someone who's fat and old but takes a half-hour walk every day  is probably generally healthier than someone who spends 12 weeks on  Phillips' regimen and then gives it up because they don't have the time.	1999-07-09
US	52818926	R30MNBUGLXNDG4	0156006278	879715890	The Right Mind: Making Sense of the Hemispheres	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Fascinating and fun	Ornstein's early writings on right brain/left brain differences led to a veritable explosion of research and writing on the subject.  In this book he's written an excellent summary of the current state of our  understanding:  although it's clear that the halves of the brain have  different areas of specialization, he emphasizes strongly that they need to  work together to enable us to function fully as human beings.  He's bemused  (and sometimes annoyed) at the popular tendency to romanticize the right  brain as the seat of creativity and denigrate the left brain as an  unimaginative literalist;  the facts show that both halves are involved in  such complex human activities as listening to music and understanding  jokes.  His summary of the 19th-century debates on  brain functioning was  very useful and informative.  And his conclusion that psychology needs to  pay more attention to the various ways human beings have pursued spiritual  development over the millennia is, I think, a very timely reminder:   psychology has tended to dismiss this behavior as &quot;superstition,&quot;  but, as other writers have pointed out (e.g., Epstein's &quot;Thoughts  Without a Thinker&quot;), it has as much to do with developing the full  power of your mind as with addressing something &quot;out there.&quot;   Ornstein writes clearly and humorously, and the book packs an amazing  amount of knowledge into its rather brief length.	1999-07-07
US	52818926	R2SEZLF1UKQ70C	0465085857	929745996	Thoughts Without A Thinker: Psychotherapy From A Buddhist Perspective	Books	5	38	40	N	N	The best of East and West	I found this book not only enlightening but very practical.  The introduction to the fundamentals of Buddhism in the first section is clear, easy to read, and well-thought-out -- I've read a lot of Buddhist texts and  commentary on my own, but this summary pulled it all together for me.  His  discussion of the practice of meditation was extremely helpful -- although  the best way to learn how to meditate is to DO it, this provided some  useful guidelines, and was very reassuring for us perfectionists who tend  to get hung up in &quot;Am I doing it right?&quot;!  While the final  section would probably be most useful to those who practice psychotherapy,  or to their clients, I found it thought-provoking and fascinating to read.   This isn't just a book for specialists;  it has something to say to anyone  who's interested in human psychology or spiritual development (which,  Epstein might say, are fundamentally the same thing).	1999-07-01
US	52818926	R2ORX2QJ5NO1G1	0060191554	99871544	Eat, Drink, & Be Merry: America's Doctor Tells You Why the Health Experts are Wrong	Books	4	3	5	N	N	In general, very sensible	I don't agree with Dr. Edell in all respects -- his discussion and dismissal of most &quot;alternative healing&quot; is very superficial.  But I give this book 4 stars because of his thoroughly sensible approach to  dieting and the purported &quot;obesity epidemic.&quot;  (The NIH recently  redefined the guidelines for obesity so that their definition applies to  about half the U.S. population, and now is issuing dire warnings about how  &quot;more Americans are obese today than ever before&quot; ... DUH!!)  In  my experience, dieting, including pills, extreme calorie restriction, and  &quot;good food/bad food&quot; fads, has caused far more health problems  than obesity ever has.  My family history is full of vigorous, healthy  women who lived into their 80's and 90's but who, according to the NIH  guidelines, would be considered &quot;dangerously obese&quot;!  We'd all be  healthier if we followed Dr. Edell's prescription for moderation -- in  dieting as in everything else -- and for that reason I recommend the book.	1999-06-14
US	52818926	RACK45BUR5EG1	0679735666	333175733	A Natural History of the Senses	Books	4	7	11	N	N	A box of chocolates rather than a steak dinner	Readers expecting a meaty discussion of the science and history of the senses won't find it here.  The book reminded me of a box of good chocolates:  it's fun, full of variety and surprises, and a pleasant  diversion, if not very substantial.  I found it perfect for traveling:  the  chapters are brief and fairly self-contained, and you can read the book in  bits and pieces and still find it enjoyable.  In the category of  &quot;brain candy,&quot; this is definitely Belgian chocolate.	1999-06-11
US	52818926	R2SYL3S7CZLL72	0609804359	167808591	Slaying the Mermaid: Women and the Culture of Sacrifice	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Thoughtful discussion of a complex problem	I came across this book while looking for something else, and couldn't put it down.  As a woman and a former Catholic, I got a double dose of the self-sacrificing ideal.  Although I later rejected the notion of female  subservience, I felt that the &quot;masculine&quot; ideal of individualism  was equally unsatisfactory:  in order to achieve self-realization, did one  have to reject the positive aspects of self-sacrifice, such as compassion  and concern for the good of the community (or humanity as a  whole)?<BR>Golden's discussion is the first I've seen that looks at  this  very complex issue in depth, both intellectually and emotionally, and comes  to a balanced conclusion.  Rather than urging women to reject  self-sacrifice outright, she carefully considers the origins of the ideal  and its pluses and minuses, and helps readers to judge for themselves  whether self-sacrifice in a particular situation will enrich or deplete  their lives.  She doesn't give easy answers, but coping with a disabled  parent, or trying to assist a mentally ill person to get help, aren't easy  problems.  This is a truly outstanding book, and I recommend it highly.	1999-06-09
US	52818926	R1AYZFBSDJLFGP	0684849135	103946658	Why We Buy: The Science Of Shopping	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Marketing in the real world	While I don't agree with all of Underhill's conclusions, I think that what makes this book a valuable resource for anyone in the business of selling is his methodology.  Instead of putting together focus groups or doing  market surveys, he took the revolutionary step of watching HOW PEOPLE  ACTUALLY SHOP.  A lot of his deductions struck me as sheer common sense,  but how &quot;common&quot; is that in the retail business?  (For example,  one of my local department stores has a Women's Plus Sizes department that  should be a big draw:  the buyer has excellent taste, the merchandise is  high quality, and there's a very good selection.  But I hate to shop there  because it's crammed into a small area of the store, so a Plus Size woman  can barely force her way between the racks!)  This book is a real  eye-opener, as well as fun to read, and I hope merchants (in the mall as  well as online) pay attention to it.	1999-05-13
US	52818926	RBQKLDXDE6JDE	0864426275	828982845	Round Ireland in Low Gear	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Delightful and funny	I picked up this book at the library while researching my Irish background:  my great-grandpa was born in Aghagower, a little village in Co. Mayo at the foot of Croagh Patrick, which Newby climbs in the course of  his travels.  But that chapter so amused me that I ended up reading the  whole book and enjoying it immensely.  Newby and his wife are ideal  travelers, willing to try just about anything and to find delight and humor  in the unlikeliest circumstances.  As a British &quot;outsider,&quot;  Newby's perspective on Ireland is unsentimental -- especially compared with  American visitors, who are inclined to gush or to see the whole country  through glasses tinted by &quot;The Quiet Man&quot; and &quot;Danny  Boy.&quot;  But Newby lacks the prejudices and stereotypes that often slant  British travelers' views of the Irish, so his encounters with the locals  are straightforward and non-condescending.  I'm glad that the book has been  reissued with improved maps -- the originals were maddeningly vague,  especially if one had a yen to emulate any of Newby's travels.  This book  inspired me to do some bicycle touring in Ireland myself (well, maybe next  year), and I'm pleased to see that it's back in print.	1999-04-07
US	52818926	RBRKFKDTB22MK	156656302X	530641144	Grandmother's Secrets: The Ancient Rituals and Healing Power of Belly Dancing	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Delightful and enlightening	I enjoyed this book immensely.  The first part is a brief, anecdotal account of the author's childhood in Baghdad, with emphasis on the women who raised her and the importance of dance (and bodily awareness in  general) in their lives.  The second part is a history of dance, from the  feminist/revisionist perspective that's been presented more thoroughly in  many other books, but she summarizes it succinctly and her conclusions are  generally levelheaded.  The best part of the book for me (as a student of  belly dance) was the third part, where she presents exercises -- mental and  physical -- to put the dancer in touch with the meaning of the various  dance moves and techniques.  Of course you can't learn to dance out of a  book, but anyone who has a basic belly dance &quot;vocabulary&quot; will  find these exercises extremely valuable in giving depth to your dance and  helping you to integrate your mind and body more fully.  For most  Westerners, raised in religious traditions that divorce mind and body, this  is the part of dancing (and physical movement in general) that's most  difficult to grasp.  Other writers have touched on the same subject (e.g.,  Gabrielle Roth from a more general dance perspective, and Moshe Feldenkrais  and others from the world of &quot;exercise&quot;), but this is the best  exposition of the subject I've seen that relates specifically to belly  dance.  I recommend the book highly, not only to aspiring dancers but to  anyone who wants practical guidance for getting your mind and body back in  sync.  The illustrations are more decorative than useful -- aside from a  few touching portraits, and the photo of the author's grandmother (who  looks much gentler than her formidable reputation implies!), they could  have been omitted without detracting from the book.  The translation is  admirable:  the book is easy to read, and the author's poetic language  comes across gracefully.	1999-03-19
US	52818926	R76LA582XY2Y9	0375501320	973098536	The Greedy Hand: How Taxes Drive Americans Crazy and What to Do About It	Books	2	4	13	N	N	Tax reform for the prosperous	I agree that Shlaes has written an impassioned discussion of taxation and made some fairly reasonable suggestions (e.g., about estate tax).  On the other hand, I feel that her argument fails in one crucial respect:  she  assumes that the &quot;typical&quot; American family is a married couple  with two good incomes, and most of the reforms she suggests have to do with  easing the burden on them.  Maybe this is typical of Wall Street Journal  readers, but it certainly isn't the world *I* know: single women supporting  3 kids with little or no help from their exes, &quot;working poor&quot;  families with two or three minimum-wage incomes, middle-aged couples where  the wife has never worked and they're struggling to survive on the  husband's meager pension ...  The fact is that our tax system has always  given a break to those who can afford tax shelters, and taken  proportionately more from low and middle-income wage-earners, and most of  the reforms Shlaes suggests would simply perpetuate this inequity.  Her  book is likely to be popular among those who, in fact, are already paying  less than their fair share, but consider it outrageous that they have to  pay even that much.	1999-03-17
US	52818926	R1FHPP1AN32LLY	0553379534	72807956	Women's Bodies, Women's Wisdom: Creating Physical and Emotional Health and Healing	Books	4	12	16	N	N	Excellent as far as it goes, but ...	Although Dr. Northrup occasionally goes over the top with the body-mind connection, I felt that most of the book was insightful and useful to women who want better understanding and control of their own health.  However, my  frustration with this book (as with many other books on women's health) is  that it's completely focussed on those things that differentiate us from  males -- sex organs, hormones, pregnancy, menopause, etc.  I wanted more  information about how one's &quot;general&quot; health conditions are  affected by being female:  for example, I have high blood pressure, and I'd  like to know whether its effects and recommended treatment are different  for women, and whether it's more or less of a problem pre- and  post-menopause.  I realize that the book is quite long as it is, and Dr.  Northrup probably didn't want to make it too encyclopedic.  But my female  hormones affect more than just my sex organs, and I'd have liked to learn  more about those other effects.	1999-03-05
US	52818926	R26BWWOOETUP4Z	0865659966	537067562	Secrets of the Harem	Books	4	41	41	N	N	Limited range, but attractive, entertaining, and instructive	In spite of its rather general title, this book is focussed on the harems of the Sultans of Turkey.  The author has written guidebooks to Turkey and Istanbul, and she evidently knows her subject thoroughly. <BR>The book  covers, in great detail, the physical quarters of the harem (the Topkapi  seraglio) and its various inhabitants.  The author touches upon various  subjects -- art, music, and dance;  the social hierarchy among the harem  eunuchs;  the use of drugs and tobacco;  and the changing position of women  in Turkish culture. (Interestingly, a woman who survived a stint in the  harem -- which wasn't necessarily a &quot;given&quot; in some eras! -- was  considered a desirable wife rather than &quot;damaged goods.&quot;  In  fact, since a woman qualified for the harem solely because of her personal  merits, this was often a path for upward mobility for an attractive,  talented young woman of humble origin.) <BR>I appreciated the author's  careful distinctions between genuine, fact-based depictions of the harem in  art and literature, vs. those in which the harem is merely a springboard  for some Westerner's fantasy.  (However, all those paintings of blond or  fair-skinned women in the harem aren't, as some critics assume,  inauthentic:  slaves were acquired from Greece and Central Asia as well as  Africa and Turkey.  In fact, more than one Sultan took a Western European  wife.)  <BR>Art and photographs are used extensively:  the quality of the  reproductions is excellent, the modern photographs are well chosen, and the  captions are generally informative.  In spite of its dimensions and  picture-book appearance, this isn't just a coffee-table book:  I found it  interesting to read and educational.	1999-02-22
US	52818926	R27KCYOWGTUK0Q	1568496958	962925176	Dance Hall of the Dead	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Mind-bogglingly good	This book made a Tony Hillerman fan out of me.  The opening scene took my breath away:  he gets you inside the skin of a boy who's both a typical American teenager and a Zuni conscious of his ritual responsibilities.  The  cast of characters is varied and fascinating, the setting is vividly  depicted, and, although the plot seems to meander at times, it all comes  together in the heartbreaking conclusion.  (And, given the current  political situation at Zuni, his beautiful, detailed description of Shalako  is as close to it as most of us will have the chance to get!)  This is  Hillerman at the height of his powers, and, with one or two exceptions, I  don't think his later books live up to this one.	1999-02-02
US	52818926	R31J44I5FQ6Q8H	0671680420	145975086	Bum Steer (A Jenny Cain Mystery)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Outstanding	I think the whole Jenny Cain series is well done, but this one is especially good:  an interesting and unusual setting, a delightful group of characters, and a clever plot (I couldn't put it down, which, from a  voracious mystery reader like me, is a genuine accolade!).  The story is  more &quot;What's going on here?&quot; than &quot;Who done it?&quot;, but  the author really does keep you guessing until the end.  The only part that  rang false to me was Jenny's visit to Santa Fe, which sounded like the  author spent a weekend in Tesuque once and decided that this qualified her  as an expert on New Mexico (NOT!!).  Otherwise, the book was a pleasure to  read, and I highly recommend it.	1999-01-21
US	52818926	R137ROD3FSWK74	0826314457	789414683	Mayordomo: Chronicle of an Acequia in Northern New Mexico	Books	5	22	23	N	N	The real New Mexico	Far too many accounts of life in New Mexico are written by people with an agenda, often Anglos who came here to &quot;find themselves&quot; or &quot;get back to the land&quot; and were outraged when they discovered  that reality wouldn't cooperate with their fantasies.  By contrast, Stanley  Crawford arrived with an open mind and integrated his family so  successfully into a small, predominantly Hispanic village that he became  the &quot;mayordomo&quot; in charge of administering the community's  irrigation system.  This book recounts his experiences and describes the  workings of the community, in which the water system performs an important  symbolic function as well as a practical one.  It's well written, sometimes  almost poetic, and often very funny.  I think this and Crawford's &quot;A  Garlic Testament&quot; are far and away the best books on life in rural New  Mexico, and I recommend both of them unreservedly.	1999-01-21
US	52818926	RUJT4BAK55HNK	0380725274	787115445	The Stronger Women Get, The More Men Love Football	Books	5	25	27	N	N	Well written, entertaining -- and scary	I'm a woman who has been puzzled and bemused for a long time by the male fixation on sports.  How can a man remember the batting averages of all the players in last year's World Series, but not know the shoe size of the  woman he's been married to for 10 years?  Why does a man buy a newspaper,  read every word of the sports section, and throw away the rest without even  glancing at it?  Why is a professional basketball player paid a salary that  rivals (and often exceeds) that of the CEO of a major corporation, who is  responsible for managing a trillion-dollar budget and thousands of  employees?  And why, when a local writer received a major national award,  was she relegated to a few column-inches in the Local section of the paper,  while the firing of a high school football coach made the front-page  headlines?<BR>Nelson's book confirmed what I'd long suspected:  as women  have gradually broken through one glass ceiling after another, men have  retreated into sports as the last bastion of traditional masculinity.  It's  a world in which &quot;girl&quot; is used as an insult, where men are  permitted to express their affection only by punching each other, and where  the only females allowed on the premises are decorative servants.  But for  those who claim that this is harmless male bonding and dismiss its critics  as man-haters, Nelson shows the darker side: high school athletes who rape  with impunity,  glorification of mindless violence, and perpetuation of a  concept of &quot;masculinity&quot; defined by behavior that would make a  Neanderthal blush.<BR>While it's possible to pick holes in some of her  arguments (I know female sports fans who are as ardently partisan as any  man), I think Nelson's analysis is generally well done and convincing.  My  only criticism is that I would have appreciated more suggestions on  &quot;Where do we go from here?&quot;  But I think awareness of the problem  is more than half the battle, and she's certainly done an excellentjob of  that!  Every parent in America should read this book.	1999-01-20
US	52818926	R12J7YGFJNXM3N	0684844532	746580538	Who Killed Homer?: The Demise of Classical Education and the Recovery of Greek Wisdom	Books	3	27	36	N	N	Lively and readable, but misses the point	I found the book articulate, clear, a pleasure to read, and in general a good example of the virtues of studying classical rhetoric (heh!).  On the other hand, like many others who have covered the same turf recently, I  think that the authors missed the point by choosing to blame the usual  suspects:  feminists, revisionists, and all the other -ists.<BR>I attended  graduate school in the humanities in the late '60's and early '70's, at  what was universally regarded as one of the best schools in my field (if  not THE best).  In the preceding decade, as both faculties and enrollments  boomed, universities had begun to model all departments on the paradigm of  the sciences.  I'm not sure whether this came from desire to give those  departments more credibility in a world where science had become a god, or  to make it easier for the bureaucratic bean-counters by basing (say) tenure  or hiring decisions on the same criteria in all departments.  But the  upshot was that &quot;academic excellence&quot; became a game in which  faculty members competed for points (publications, citations, invited  papers), and students were a mere sideshow to the REAL work that went into  creating a successful academic career.  As an undergraduate during this  era, I, like many of my peers, was completely turned off: an academic  discipline that I felt was deeply relevant to today's world had been turned  into a pseudo-science intelligible only to insiders.<BR>Too many authors  write as if academia in the '50's and early '60's was a sort of Golden Age  that fell into ruins as various politicized special-interest groups pursued  their own agendas under the rubric of &quot;relevance.&quot;  In fact, if  academia hadn't previously turned itself into an esoteric game in which  irrelevance was a criterion of &quot;academic excellence,&quot; the  special-interest groups wouldn't have stood a chance.  I feel that in this  book Hanson and Heath went for the cheap, popular targets and completely  missed the main point.	1999-01-08
US	52818926	R2D7ZWCR96FO6U	0679758550	800955520	The Sign of the Cross: Travels in Catholic Europe (Vintage Departures)	Books	5	16	18	N	N	A good read, and thought-provoking too	This is a great book to read while traveling (it just got me through a trip home on a weekend when winter storms had disrupted airline schedules throughout the entire U.S.!).  The chapters are short and fairly  self-contained, but each is well-written and engrossing.  There's a lot of  variety -- from fairly straightforward travelogues such as the accounts of  the author's visits to Rome, to highly personal essays on his family and  his belated coming to grips with his father's early death.  And he's the  only ex-Catholic author I've read who's accurately described that odd,  characteristic combination of lack of belief in the Church's tenets with  lingering reverence for all things Catholic:  I'm a 'collapsed Catholic'  myself, and I think he got it down exactly right.  (Nostalgia for one's  childhood is part of it, but it's certainly not ALL of it!)  His  discussions of Catholicism and the English are telling, and he makes some  points about the Irish Catholic treatment of Protestants that most of us,  raised as we are with a black-and-white (or, in this instance,  orange-and-green!) view of the issue, have never considered.  There's a lot  here to think about as well as be entertained by, and I recommend the book  without reservation.	1999-01-04
US	52818926	R1N92CWH8DL3N1	0671873024	595022685	The Feast of Santa Fe: Cooking of the American Southwest	Books	4	19	22	N	N	A tasty tour of the Southwest	Dent has assembled a wide-ranging collection of Southwestern recipes, and his discussions of their history and derivation are often excellent.  He's a pleasant writer to read, and even if you're not a &quot;serious&quot;  cook the book is highly educational.  His instructions are usually clear,  although sometimes they're buried in a matrix of anecdotes that makes them  difficult to follow.  However, if you're looking for Santa Fe cooking as  done by a native's abuelita (granny), this isn't quite it:  some of the  recipes bear little or no relation to the &quot;standard&quot; version.   For instance, he tells you how to make carne adovada with pork chops, but  here it's usually prepared as a stew of pork meat and red chile.  And how  can he discuss beans without mentioning &quot;epazote,&quot; an herb widely  grown in the Southwest and used as a mild seasoning and (ahem) anti-gas  agent?  In general, this is the best book I know of on Santa Fe cooking,  but it's not 100% authentic.	1998-12-17
US	52818926	RSY8OP4CN6BCK	0345430573	151155247	A Certain Justice (Adam Dalgliesh Mysteries)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An outstanding, traditional mystery	Although the trappings of the tale are very much 1990's -- sexism and &quot;queen bee&quot; behavior in a law firm, financially stretched two-income families, a career woman who has no satisfactory personal  relationships, etc. -- this book felt very &quot;old-fashioned&quot; to me.   The plot is well constructed and well thought out, but some devices (e.g.,  a letter mailed by someone just before she is killed) are awfully Agatha  Christie.  I didn't think that &quot;coincidence&quot; was overused;  what  seems at first to be coincidence often turned out to be deliberate behavior  by someone with an agenda.  And the violence in the subplot wasn't  gratuitous -- it made perfect sense given the characters involved.  I felt  that the &quot;whodunit&quot; aspect was the least interesting part:  the  murderer HAD to be one of a limited set of people, so the element of  surprise was missing (I figured it out long before the conclusion!).<BR>To  me, the chief pleasure of James' novels is how she creates an entire  &quot;world&quot; peopled with believable, memorable individuals, then uses  a crime as the force that disrupts the orderly motion of everyone's lives  and brings out hidden aspects of their characters. She's excellent at  conveying the atmosphere of a firm or an institution -- every one she's  written about in her novels is unique.  And her ability to convey the  &quot;feel&quot; of someone's life with a few well-chosen details is  unsurpassed.  From this standpoint, I found the book just about perfect,  and I enjoyed it immensely.	1998-12-16
US	52818926	R2EZXXK3OFCKQD	0684841134	38951987	In My Wildest Dreams: Living the Life You Long For	Books	3	14	15	N	N	Helpful, but hardly unique	To me, the best part of this book was Blanke's discussion of how the language we use often limits us, and how reframing the way we state something can open up new possibilities we hadn't thought of before.  (I  realized that, uncongenial as my mother's &quot;change is bad&quot;  perspective always was to me, I still picked up her tendency to shoot down  a new idea without taking seriously -- which has caused me to be seen as a  nay-sayer and a pessimist at work.)  She's also good on the subject of  &quot;unfinished business&quot; -- her recommendation to throw out 50  things was a real eye-opener for me.  And I felt that her remarks on how to  convert disbelievers into allies were pertinent and useful. Her use of  material from actual &quot;Lifedesigns&quot; groups gave her examples a  convincing grounding in reality.  But I didn't find much in the exercises  or their interpretation that I hadn't seen somewhere else already.  The  book is still worth reading for the reasons I've mentioned, but if you're  REALLY interested in rethinking your life I recommend Barbara Sher's books  instead.	1998-12-16
US	52818926	R2UKJV870TX9WD	0609803700	173346128	Callings: Finding and Following an Authentic Life	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Direct-dial your intuition	The term &quot;calling&quot; is rather misleading:  it implies something unequivocal and unmistakable, like Moses hearing a voice from the burning bush or Paul being knocked off his horse.  But, more often, it's a whisper  you have to strain to hear, or a series of little signs you'll overlook if  you aren't paying attention.  Levoy's book is less a how-to guide than a  meditation on the nature of callings and how to listen for them.  He uses  many examples from his own life, but, to his credit, he doesn't take  himself too seriously or pretend that he has The Answer to anyone's  questions about the meaning of life -- even his own.  And his subjective  insights are balanced by plentiful examples from the experiences of others.   His anecdotal style, his heavy use of quotations, and the circular  structure of many chapters might frustrate a reader looking for direct  guidance, but I found the book thought-provoking and intuition-stimulating.   It's the sort of book you can pick up at any time, flip through, and find  a paragraph or a chapter that sets off new sparks in your mind.  My one  complaint is that he often isn't specific enough about the source of a  quotation -- e.g., &quot;Goethe wrote ...&quot; is NO help at all with the  author of such bagatelles as Faust, Parts I and II!  Otherwise, I thought  his reference section offered excellent suggestions for further reading:   you can pick a quotation that resonates with you, and follow it up with  more of that author's writings.  Finally, his writing is a great pleasure  to read -- it's fluid without becoming monotonous, and well expresses  the  twists and eddies of his or his subject's thoughts.  I enjoyed the book  thoroughly, and plan to reread it.	1998-12-10
US	52818926	R3R6DUY1GEHB9F	014009766X	823772714	The Complete Father Brown (Father Brown Mystery)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Generally a jolly good read	The notion of a priest-detective seems inherently paradoxical:  forgiving sin vs. seeking out the guilty, mercy vs. justice, the confessional vs. the interrogation.  But G.H. Chesterton was fond of paradox, and in these  stories he's generally successful in presenting a character whose pastoral  experience combines with his detective instincts to ensure that TRUE  justice is done.<BR>  I first read the stories as a Catholic high school  student, when I accepted the author's religious assumptions without  question.  But when I read the book again as a formerly Catholic adult, I  was pleasantly surprised:  Father Brown is (usually) unsanctimonious and  free of legalisms regarding sin.  Furthermore, he distinguishes between  someone whose sin arises out of a fundamentally generous spirit (like  Flambeau), vs. those who sin from coldly selfish motives based on greed or  arrogance.<BR>Chesterton is a memorable writer, if prone to excesses of  purple prose;  but when he's at his best, nobody comes within a mile of  him.  And, while his plots can be far-fetched, he works them out with great  ingenuity and thoroughness.  Some of the stories should be read with tongue  firmly affixed in cheek, but they're fun, memorable, and thought-provoking.	1998-12-08
US	52818926	R1C9HD338QEEWR	020168859X	501520711	The Non-Designer's Web Book: An Easy Guide to Creating, Designing, and Posting Your Own Web Site	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Instructive, reassuring, and great fun	Most web site designers take one of two opposite approaches:  (1) overwhelm the user with gobs of information (and, sometimes, try to compensate for the resultant dullness by throwing in pointless animations,  clashing colors, etc.), or (2) offer visual candy, but under all the spiffy  PhotoShop graphics and Java special effects there's no useful  content.<BR>Ms. Williams starts with the most basic considerations:  What  is it that you want your site to SAY about you or your business?  Given  that, what's the most effective way to say it?  Not only is the book full  of useful information, clearly presented, about site navigation and design,  but it's visually appealing and a pleasure to read -- just like a good web  site!  And, while you're having fun, you're also painlessly learning a  surprising amount.<BR>The book is rather thin on technical details, but I  think this is a point in its favor:  too much specific information renders  a computer book obsolete almost as soon as the ink is dry;  however, the  design principles Williams sets out are timeless.  I also liked her  reassurance that you don't have to be a technical expert to design an  effective web site:  good thinking and planning are the only  &quot;secret.&quot;  This is far and away the best book I've seen on the  subject, and I recommend it highly.	1998-12-07
US	52818926	R1TCC4KDYTOVLW	0609800140	371567930	Anatomy of the Spirit: The Seven Stages of Power and Healing	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Makes a great deal of sense	Although some people might find Myss' transcultural correlations hard to swallow, I don't think that's her point:  the chakras and the Tree of Life aren't necessarily &quot;literally&quot; true, but they show convincingly  that people from a wide variety of cultural and religious contexts have  arrived at the same underlying truths about the body/mind connection.  And  her interpretations of the causes of various illnesses make great sense to  me because I've seen plenty of this among my relatives and friends, e.g.,  someone who had a fatal heart attack shortly after suffering a personal and  professional defeat -- thus literally &quot;dying of a broken  heart&quot;!<BR>Another thing that impressed me is that Myss succesfully  avoids what Joan Borysenko calls &quot;New Age guilt,&quot; i.e.,  &quot;illness means that you're spiritually deficient.&quot;  She points  out that the causes of physical illness are complex and there isn't a  simple one-to-one correspondence between the body and the spirit;   furthermore, spiritual healing can and should take place even if the person  doesn't recover from the physical illness.<BR>I also heartily concur with  her remarks on &quot;woundology.&quot;  I've seen far too many people who  have made &quot;recovery&quot; the focus of their entire existence.  To me,  that's just exchanging one addiction for another, and if a person can't get  beyond the whole issue they'll be stuck there forever.  All in all, this is  an enlightening and helpful book, and I heartily recommend it.	1998-12-01
US	52818926	RMN3YSYKLO093	0684818701	422504912	The All New All Purpose: Joy of Cooking	Books	3	20	21	N	N	A useful resource, but I'm hanging onto my old one	My mother belonged to the 1950's school of cooking:  all-white dinners, canned fruit salads, and boil those vegetables into submission.  In 1968 I shared an apartment with a fellow student whose mother came out of the same  school.  But we had a copy of &quot;The Joy of Cooking,&quot; and under its  tutelage we both turned into fairly adept cooks.<BR>The new edition has  some interesting recipes, and I like the spiral-bound format:  my old  hardbound edition had a tendency to flip shut just as you were at the  trickiest part of the recipe!  But it assumes more cooking expertise than I  had in my twenties -- not an entirely safe assumption, given that the  present generation was raised on microwaveable everything.  The depth of  background information is uneven -- there doesn't seem to be a consistent  &quot;format&quot; that the many authors were asked to follow.  And I miss  the anecdotes that made the old &quot;Joy&quot; a pleasure to read:  I'd be  trolling for a new way to cook, say, rutabagas, and get lost in it for  hours!<BR>This is still a good, comprehensive cookbook, but for basic  information I'll continue to use my old one.  (And I disagree with their  assumption that nobody cans fruit or makes preserves any more.  Maybe my  vision is warped by living in a semi-rural part of the country, but last  summer, when we had the best apricot crop in years, there wasn't a canning  jar to be had for love or money within a 20-mile radius!)	1998-11-24
US	52818926	R1PEVF5BIISP05	0874778786	710370679	Sweat Your Prayers	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Thought-provoking, exciting, and fun to read	I was raised in a religious tradition that views the body as the source of sin and the antithesis of spirit.  Over the years, most of my physical activity (e.g., yoga) has focussed on disciplining the body so that it  wouldn't get in the way of the soul's higher aspirations.  Although I  enjoyed dancing in social settings, I considered this merely one of the  crass earthly pleasures, and never took myself seriously as a dancer  because I don't have a &quot;dancer's body.&quot;  Then last year, at the  age of 50-plus, in a moment of &quot;Oh, what the h*ll&quot; I succumbed to  a long-standing fascination with belly dancing and signed up for a class.   It's been a revelation:  not only am I stronger and fitter, but I've become  friends with my body as never before.<BR>Gabrielle Roth went through a  similar process, and the results are embodied in her workshops, videos,  music CDs, and, now, this book.  Genuinely respecting one's body as a  partner to the soul is a radical notion for most of us.  Roth appeals to  our intuition (our gut feelings!) as well as our rational mind, and the  book is not only thought-provoking but exciting on many levels.  Her  passion, vitality, and enthusiasm are well expressed through her writing;     she phrases her thoughts memorably, and the book is an unmitigated  pleasure to read.  While I don't buy all of her quasi-Jungian view of  personality, one doesn't have to to appreciate the book or the author's  general approach to dance as a spiritual practice.  Heartily recommended,  and deserves reading and rereading.	1998-11-23
US	52818926	R349O7FHM4FFSO	0826319602	932846658	A Garlic Testament: Seasons on a Small New Mexico Farm	Books	5	18	18	N	N	A thorough delight	Reading this book is like visiting the village of Dixon, NM, which has been Stan Crawford's home for many years.  At first it doesn't look as if there's much of anything there:  clusters of old adobe houses, small farms,  a combination grocery/gas station, a few lowriders cruising the main drag,  big old cottonwoods,  willow thickets along the river, and fences festooned  with Old Man's Beard.  But if you stay a while and explore, you'll discover  fascinating  people, an amazing array of small businesses (from herbalists  and food producers to weavers and fine jewelers), and a community lifestyle  that hasn't entirely lost its connection with the rhythms of the seasons.   Crawford is not only a dedicated farmer (and a pillar of the Santa Fe  Farmer's Market), but a fine writer and a clear-eyed observer;  the various  chapters of the book present a vividly described, thoughtful picture of his  life and his surroundings.  I found the chapter on Los Alamos rather weak  (it's just the usual &quot;ain't bombs awful&quot; arm-waving), but the  rest of the book is an unmitigated pleasure.  Forget the Hollywood version  of New Mexico;  this is the real thing.	1998-11-12
US	52818926	R31EQCJPCZU4LA	0553328255	390250393	The Complete Sherlock Holmes (2 Volumes)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	You've seen the imitations, now read the real thing	Everyone who's ever muttered &quot;Elementary, my dear Watson&quot; (which, by the way, Holmes never actually says in so many words) should buy this extremely well-priced edition and read it through.  It's not only  jolly fun, but enlightening:  the Hollywood stereotype of Holmes and Watson  is a gross caricature of Conan Doyle's characters.  Watson is an average  man with an average intelligence, and the point of his being there is to  serve as a foil for Holmes' vastly superior intellect;  if he's depicted as  a fool, the point is lost.  Likewise, Holmes and Watson are about the same  age and grow old together, whereas in the movies Watson often looks like  Holmes' grandfather.  And as for the usual film plots -- forget it;  Conan  Doyle came up with far more ingenious, fiendishly difficult mysteries than  the scriptwriters ever conceived, and solved them far more plausibly.   These stories are true classics, and should be on everyone's list of  must-reads.	1998-11-11
US	52818926	R1ZVG21CSKKOHT	0679742239	3711079	The Laughing Policeman	Books	5	57	59	N	N	The best of a generally great series	I read a LOT of mysteries, but I usually either donate them to the library book sale afterwards, or wait to take them out of the library in the first place.  The Martin Beck series is one of the few that I've bought, kept for  years, and reread numerous times.  This novel is probably the best of the  bunch:  not only is it well plotted and suspenseful, but the characters are  people you grow to care about, and their environment (Stockholm in the  '60's) is vividly depicted.  The authors' political agenda is clear, but  they're not simplistic:  the police bureaucrats may be idiots, but there  are still competent, conscientious policemen with a sense of responsibility  and the desire to see justice done;   and the authors are no kinder to the  misguided social reformers whose starry-eyed zeal led to the excesses of  the welfare state.  Setting the central events of the novel at Christmas is  a nice ironic touch.  I highly recommend the whole series, but especially  this one.  (The film made from the book is a bomb, however:  transplanting  the story to San Francisco works well at first, and Walter Matthau is  convincing  as Martin Beck -- but the screenwriters just strung together  all the sensational scenes in the novel with no attention to the authors'  careful plotting, and the result is a disaster.  View it and weep.)	1998-11-03
US	52818926	R2C0IEJO1PZ5SE	0837179653	912804119	The Native's Return: An American Immigrant Visits Yugoslavia and Discovers His Old Country	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A window into the past	Louis Adamic, a native of what is now Slovenia, emigrated to America as a young man, became a fairly well-regarded writer, and in 1932 received a Guggenheim fellowship to write in Europe.  He decided to pay a brief,  dutiful visit to his family, whom he hadn't seen in 19 years and who had  never met his American wife.  But he ended up spending the full term of his  fellowship traveling through the (new) country of Yugoslavia and writing  this book about his impressions.  It's well worth reading if you have roots  in this part of the world, or want to know more about the background of the  present crisis.  Adamic's comments on the relationships and the differences  between the various peoples who share the country are telling, and he  successfully avoids the Serbian romanticism that mars many other books on  Yugoslavia (e.g., Rebecca West's &quot;Black Lamb, Gray Falcon&quot;).  The  photographs are occasionally hokey, but contain many fascinating details of  costume, architecture, and daily life.  Yugoslavia in the 1930's was in an  uneasy state of equilibrium under an incompetent King, and it's sadly  apparent how this state of affairs contributed to the country's many  cataclysms later in the century.  This isn't a &quot;scholarly&quot; work,  it's impressionistic and opinionated, but as an &quot;insider's&quot;  perspective it's extremely valuable.	1998-10-27
US	52818926	RNL5I2EIVTSFP	014014515X	960909167	The Great Hunger: Ireland: 1845-1849	Books	5	34	35	N	N	A thoroughly appalling, if rather dry, story	In fall 1972 I was a student traveling around the British Isles with a  backpack and a rail pass.  Finding myself stuck in Dublin for several days,  I bought a copy of this book to while away the time.  Previously I'd known  of the Potato Famine only as a blessing-in-disguise that drove some of my  ancestors to America.  This book is rather dry and statistical, but the  story it tells is damning.  The Potato Famine was traditionally blamed on  the laziness of the Irish, who had grown dependent on a single,  easy-to-grow crop.  Woodham-Smith shows convincingly that the real villains  were the British landlords, who were trying to squeeze the maximum profit  out of their tenants, and the British government, who denied the magnitude  of the problem until it could no longer be concealed and then blamed it on  the victims.  I found the book engrossing, read it through in a few days,  and have reread it several times since.  Although it seems short on  &quot;human interest,&quot; some of the stories the author tells (e.g., the  account of famine victims in Skibbereen, Co. Cork) are almost too painful  to bear.  Perhaps it's just as well that she let the facts and figures  speak for themselves;  they're horrifying enough!	1998-10-26
US	52818926	RAJIYEXIXM3J9	0140012788	324630215	The Reason Why: The Story of the Fatal Charge of the Light Brigade	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Well-written, fascinating, and scary	I read Woodham-Smith's objective (and thoroughly appalling) account of the  Potato Famine, &quot;The Great Hunger,&quot; many years ago, and promptly  read everything else of hers that I could get my hands on.  I think this is  her best book:  by focussing on the people involved, their relationships,  and how they found themselves in a situation they were pathetically  incapable of dealing with, she's put together a thorough but lively account  of what led up to the Light Brigade cataclysm.  Not only is it an admirable  piece of historical research and writing, but the book has considerable  resonance today:  stupidity, arrogance, and personal feuds in high places  led to a disaster, and they could do so again -- but now the stakes are  potentially much higher.	1998-10-26
US	52818926	R3OD400WQ6JN7H	0750917164	10780395	1066 and All That: A memorable history of England	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Hilarious, and all too true	A critic of Josephine Tey's &quot;The Daughter of Time&quot;  sneered that  Inspector Grant was characterized by &quot;total ignorance of  history.&quot;  Unfortunately, given the way history is taught in most  schools, Grant has plenty of company.  This book is not only screamingly  funny but true to life:  most of us remember history only as a series of  random facts, and/or anecdotes rewritten to satisfy the currently  fashionable view of the past.  No wonder we seem perpetually condemned to  repeat it!	1998-10-09
US	52818926	RW3GRNGED3LQU	0394738748	194036733	Stretching for Everyday Fitness and for Running, Tennis, Raquetball; Cycling, Swimming, Golf, and Other Sports	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Easy to use, fun, and very sensible	This book was recommended to me in the early 80's by a yoga instructor,  and over the years I've found it immensely helpful.  Even today, when the  benefits of moderate and regular exercise are well known, too many people  still believe that you should &quot;go for the burn&quot; and &quot;no  pain, no gain.&quot;  <BR>Anderson isn't your high school football coach:   the exercises he recommends will, if practiced regularly, increase your  strength and flexibility without agony or the risk of injury.  His  stretches are effective on their own, or you can use them to supplement  other types of exercise.  And they're fun, too:  a good stretch, done  properly, should be pleasurable rather than painful!<BR>The book itself is  very well designed:  the text provides just enough explanation, the  illustrations are clear, and the large format allows you to keep the book  open (and out of your way) while you do the stretches.  This is a program  you can follow for your whole life -- it's not just for young jocks.   Highly recommended.	1998-10-02
US	52818926	R2D99JRW5NHDLQ	038518803X	225790436	Women's Burnout: How to Spot It, How to Reverse It, and How to Prevent It	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Helpful, but doesn't address the fundamental problem	The authors have written a thorough study of how burnout happens in women,  what its symptoms are, and how to cope with it.  Their scholarship is  impressive, their recommendations are sensible, and their attitude is  compassionate.  Unfortunately, I think they made a fundamental mistake:   they see burnout as essentially the individual's problem, and thus  something that it's up to the individual to address.<BR>The fact is that  most of the causes of burnout -- e.g., excessive work loads, lack of  control, insufficient rewards for the work performed -- are caused by the  SITUATION itself and not by the individual.  So, although the individual  can make things a little better by changing her/his attitude and speaking  up for what she/he needs, this won't have much effect unless the situation  changes.  And if the situation is controlled by a for-profit HMO, or by  management whose main concern is the stockholders, there's a more  fundamental problem here than the employee's attitude!<BR>Unfortunately,  the way most people cope with impending burnout is to detach themselves  emotionally from their jobs -- a strategy recommended here, and also, as a  general approach to life, by recent books such as Pollan and Levine's  &quot;Live Rich.&quot;  I think this is a serious mistake:  as other  authors have pointed out, employees need to unite and work with management  in order to burnout-proof the situation.  If individuals retreat into the  &quot;It's only a job&quot; attitude, both employees and the institions  they work for will be the losers.  Christina Maslach's books present  compelling evidence that burnout is situational, rather than an individual  problem, and I highly recommend them as a corrective.	1998-10-01
US	52818926	R2S16NS7QIB9D7	0887309356	584359848	Live Rich: Everything You Need to Know to Be Your Own Boss, Whoever You Work for	Books	3	13	13	N	N	Some good advice, but a backwards-looking mindset	I heartily subscribe to the authors' philosophy that you &quot;work for yourself,&quot; and that your career should be governed by putting your own self-interest first, not by blind loyalty to a company that has no corresponding loyalty to its employees. On the other hand, I have real problems with their idea that you should work for money and seek self-actualization and meaning from other things in your life.  This is based on a number of assumptions that I believe are false: (1) &quot;Jobs&quot; are created by employers and/or the marketplace, not by the people who do them; (2) the way things are is the way things are going to stay; and (3) the satisfaction you get from, say, coaching your kid's soccer team is more &quot;genuine&quot; than what you can or should get from your work.<BR>This is the 1950's suburban paradigm that I grew up with -- but the world of work is changing and the concept of &quot;job&quot; (let alone &quot;company&quot; and &quot;industry&quot;) is shifting.  If people detach themselves emotionally from their jobs now, they'll miss the opportunity to transform the work place into something more human-centered -- and I think we have a window of opportunity to do this now that may not last forever.<BR>Also, just in practical terms, I think it's naive to believe that an activity that takes up at least 50 hours a week (when you count in lunch breaks with co-workers, commuting time, dressing and undressing, etc.) can be NOT meaningful to you!  (This reminds me of Quentin Crisp's dictum: &quot;It's no good running a pig farm badly for 30 years while saying 'Really, I was meant to be a ballet dancer.'  After 30 years, pigs will be your style.&quot;)<BR>My own approach to career selection would be to start by saying &quot;What's most important to you in life?&quot; Then I'd ask (1) Can you make a job out of it?  If so, great; you're one of the lucky ones.  (2) If not, can you find work that's related to it?  If so, you're also lucky.  (3) If not, what job can you take to make enough money to live on and still have enough time to do what's important to you?  Pollan and Levine address #3 well -- but for those of us fortunate enough to have found #2 (as I did) or even #1, their advice is laughable.	1998-09-24
US	52818926	R1MJ6VLF3XT7TE	0451405137	997379372	Final Justice: The True Story of the Richest Man Ever Tried for Murder	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Scary and true to life	At the time of the Davis murders, I was living in Fort Worth and had a  second-hand acquaintance with some of the people involved.  Smith and  Naifeh got it exactly right:  not merely the facts but the &quot;feel&quot;  of the case.  Texas is a microcosm of the U.S., with all our best and worst  qualities exaggerated.  The Davis case exemplified our fascination with sex  and sleaze, our love/hate relationship with the wealthy, and a legal system  that's as much showmanship as The Majesty Of The Law -- and the results  were an ironic commentary on what we truly value.  (Somehow, the fact that  Priscilla Davis was a mother whose 12-year-old daughter was brutally  murdered got lost in the shuffle.)  The book is engrossing and truly scary,  and I highly recommend it.	1998-09-16
US	52818926	R3GQ8B1KMQCDVA	0062512544	122497513	Nothing to Lose	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Positive, helpful, and sane	It's a sad commentary on American women that, at a time when a new diet  book is published practically every day, and that sloppy exercise in  anti-fat bias &quot;The Fat of the Land&quot; is a best-seller, this book  has gone out of print!  <BR>As someone who spent much of her adult life  fighting a &quot;weight problem&quot; that didn't exist in the first place,  I only wish this book had been around when *I* was a teenager.  Erdman's  recommendations are right on, and I won through to those same attitudes  only after many years of self-hatred, self-punitive behavior, and  &quot;conditional living&quot; (&quot;When I lose 30 lbs, I'll take yoga  ... buy some really good-looking clothes ... find a better job ... &quot;).   I heartily recommend the book to any woman who thinks her weight precludes  her from doing what she really wants in life -- and to her significant  other who doesn't understand what she's going through.	1998-09-14
US	52818926	R2SMRCMB7SEBN8	0316051675	409530048	Dr. Bob Arnot's Revolutionary Weight Control Program	Books	2	5	9	N	N	Revolutionary?  NOT!!	I'm all too experienced with diets, having spent 25 years of my life  trying to achieve a weight that Nature never intended me to be.  So I admit  to starting this book with a bad attitude after reading that the author  deliberately gained weight and then lost it to test his theories:  how can  that POSSIBLY compare with the experience of someone who's been struggling  with a &quot;weight problem&quot; for most of his/her adult life?  The book  didn't win me over:  although his food and meal scheduling recommendations  are generally sensible, he's by no means the first physician to make them.   His remarks on exercise are nonsense, too:  his put-down of walking is  flatly contradicted by an enormous number of studies, and many people can't  follow his bicycling regimen for practical reasons (traffic, weather, work  schedules, or -- as in my case -- living in the Land of Dirt Roads).   Finally, as other critics have pointed out, the book is badly organized and  hard to use.  He makes some good points, but this is by no means the  &quot;revolutionary breakthrough&quot; that it's claimed to be.  Don't  waste your money.	1998-09-04
US	52818926	R154L5S91SDOF4	0826316786	421400974	The Matachines Dance: Ritual Symbolism and Interethnic Relations in the Upper Rio Grande Valley (Publications of the American Folklore Society. New)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fascinating, thorough, and readable	I picked up this book for two reasons:  (1) I'd recently seen the  Matachines performed, first by a Hispanic troupe from El Rancho, NM, and  then at Jemez Pueblo, which presents both Spanish and Indian versions;  (2)  my Ph.D. dissertation was on medieval drama and the relationship between  its themes and major societal concerns.  This study answered many questions  I had about the origins and history of the dance;  in addition, her  exposition of the meanings it has to the different groups who perform it  was well-researched and fascinating.  Starting with the same basic  material, and incorporating many of the same elements (costumes, dance  steps, tunes, etc.), Hispanic and Native American people living within a  few miles of each other have used the dance to express very different  concerns:  pride in the Spanish conquest on the one hand, and ambivalence  about it on the other.  Rodriguez is evenhanded and objective, and presents  the various dancers' points of view without gratuitious comment;  her  descriptions of the styles of different performing groups are vivid and  clear.  This is a thoroughly scholarly book, but  readable too, and the  photographs are well chosen.	1998-08-23
US	52818926	R1WYUYDIABPRGY	0345406400	255997198	The Romanovs: the Final Chapter	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Informative and thorough, but contentious	This book has a lot going for it:  the portrait of  the Romanov family's last days is touching, and the account of their execution is factual and truly horrific.  (As the author of &quot;Nicholas and Alexandra,&quot; Massie clearly wears his heart on his sleeve, but the story is appalling enough on its own merits:  Nicholas may have been arrogant, stubborn, and a political idiot, but his family certainly didn't deserve a brutal death.)  The author's exposition of how the bones were found and identified is thorough and clear, if a bit dry, and his explanation of &quot;Anna Anderson&quot; and her history is authoritative and convincing.  He's also very good at explaining how DNA typing works.<BR>On the other hand, when he describes the disputes over who was entitled to examine the bones and do the DNA work on them, the author becomes partisan.  I felt that his attack on DNA expert Mary-Claire King was highly unfair:  it's evident that she realized that the situation was t! urning into Dueling DNA Analysts and didn't want her employees wasting their time on it, so accusing her of failing to keep promises she never made is petty and mean-spirited.  The author's spitefulness in this section mars what is otherwise a balanced, objective account of the discovery and identification of the bones.  With this reservation, I'd recommend the book as a thorough and convincing description of how the Romanov bones were found and identified, and essential reading for anyone who is curious about the issues raised by their recent burial.	1998-07-20
US	52818926	R18Q2VWCPI7IMQ	0395657806	581209023	Autobiography of a Face	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Much more than a medical history	I found this a truly astonishing book.  Grealy manages to convey the horrific agonies she went through -- first as a cancer patient, and then as an adolescent and young adult trying to cope with the results -- in clear, straightforward, non-whiny prose.  Although she had plenty of reasons to feel sorry for herself, she writes about her painful experiences not as an end in themselves but as a springboard to considering larger issues:  family love and the unconscious damage it often does;  how we summarily judge others on the basis of their looks (and how &quot;unattractive&quot; people learn how to devalue themselves);  and how such judgments form (or deform) a growing person's sense of self.  What most impressed me was her lack of self-centeredness:  for example, even as she's undergoing the agonies of chemotherapy, and feeling inadequate because she cries when her mother urges her not to, she realizes momentarily that her mother is suffering almost as much as she is.  ! ! I kept being reminded of the Buddhist concept of the Bodhisattva:  someone who, out of compassion, comes to earth and suffers so as to raise humanity to a higher level of awareness.  This is a book with resonances far beyond one woman's life story, and I recommend it without reservation.	1998-07-16
US	52818926	R1ST82U1Z2CARZ	0425103633	884941430	Murder in Mesopotamia (Hercule Poirot)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A fun read, but not one of her best	All the usual Christie ingredients are here:  a body in a (virtually) locked room, a motley set of characters most of whom have something to hide, and a setting that adds further complications to the basic whodunit.  But this mystery wasn't as exciting to read for me as some of her others:  I felt that she'd used the same plot elements to better effect elsewhere, and the story seemed to drag during Poirot's lengthy &quot;who could have done it?&quot; inquiry.  Still, I thought one part of it was admirable:  having worked on digs and other field research projects myself, I felt that her picture of the group dynamics was right on target -- and Poirot's deduction of who done it on the basis of those dynamics was brilliant.  (Christie accompanied her archeologist husband on many of his digs, and obviously was a good observer!)	1998-07-14
US	52818926	R21FA2FAKKRPCV	0061003824	613782232	Third Girl	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Not a bad plot, but very dated	Agatha Christie attempts to depict the swinging sixties, and falls on her face.  The mystery is interesting enough, and, as usual, the solution to  is discovered not through forensics but through analyzing the pyschological undercurrents of the situation.  (The &quot;third girl&quot; idea is used very cleverly, I thought.)  On the other hand, Christie writes about swinging London from an outsider's perspective, and she clearly doesn't know what she's talking about when it comes to drugs, so some parts of the book are laughable.  Still, unlike many novelists who jumped on the hippie bandwagon, she's compassionate and doesn't go for the cheap shots -- the villain isn't a drug-crazed hippie but a person with more traditional (and despicable) motives.  Worth reading in spite of its flaws.	1998-07-14
US	52818926	R1DNPQMVR1KHGE	0396073204	787879730	Come, Tell Me How You Live	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Perfectly delightful	I'm sad to see that this book is out of print, because it's one of my favorites by Christie.  Her second husband, archeologist Max Mallowan, was kind, reliable, and utterly devoted to her, by contrast with her straying ex.  But accompanying Mallowan on his digs satisfied her adventurous side as well, and this period of her life was a happy and productive one.  In this book, she writes humorously about their travels together, but the picture that emerges is one of great affection and mutual respect.  Guaranteed to make you feel good!	1998-07-14
US	52818926	R1H826CESDN8Z	0192830805	359278790	The Rainbow (The World's Classics)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	My favorite D.H. Lawrence	Lawrence's fame (or notoriety) rests on his sexual frankness, but what a lot of readers overlook is how well he wrote about parent-child relationships and family dynamics.  The beginning of this novel is absolutely brilliant:  Tom Brangwen and the Polish widow marry in haste, then find that they  still haven't worked out their relationship.  Her young daughter is an uneasy third party, and the child's sensitivity to the unease in their household is beautifully described, as well as her stepfather's gentle efforts to befriend her.  As Lawrence continues the family history, his usual obsessions surface.  But in general, it's a good story:  sex is an organic part of his characters' lives rather than the mainspring of the whole plot (as in some of his other novels).  And the characters come across as multi-dimensional human beings rather than talking heads (or other organs) for Lawrence's comments on life.  A good novel for people who &quot;don't like D.H. Lawrence.&quot;	1998-07-10
US	52818926	ROPRPO1NAPGTK	0452277779	28550406	The Lady in the Car with Glasses and a Gun	Books	4	12	13	N	N	A wild ride with a fascinating driver	A beautiful, neurotic blonde impulsively takes her employer's white Thunderbird for a joy-ride from Paris to the sea.  Along the way, she keeps meeting people who insist they saw her a few days before.  The situation rapidly changes from amusing to sinister to life-threatening as she seeks the (shocking) solution to the mystery.  I found some of the &quot;how it was done&quot; parts more than a little far-fetched.  But the main character is an engaging woman, psychologically complex and far more intelligent than she gives herself credit for, and watching her discover her own strengths through her ordeal is fascinating and enjoyable.	1998-07-04
US	52818926	R2TT7HCATDNC3X	0684847515	719341536	Miss Pym Disposes	Books	5	32	34	N	N	Thought-provoking and unsettling	The setting of this book (a girls' school) is more claustrophobic than many of Tey's other mysteries, but her exploration of human nature is no less deep.  A sullen, unpopular girl is awarded a valuable scholarship, instead of the candidate favored by their classmates and teachers.  When the former is found &quot;accidentally&quot; dead under suspicious circumstances, Miss Pym is drawn involuntarily into helping to solve the mystery.  Her analysis of who could have done it -- psychologically as well as physically -- is fascinating and logical.  And the conclusion is stunning:  Miss Pym discovers that her own desire to do &quot;the right thing&quot; is not all that different from the murderer's motives, and the results were no less devastating.  The basis of the mystery novel, as a genre, is moral -- find out and punish wrongdoing -- but this is morally complex and will leave you thinking.  A winner.	1998-07-04
US	52818926	R1603H8U7MQSKR	0684818922	447716228	The Singing Sands	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Tey at the top of her form	This (posthumously published) novel shows Tey at her best.  Inspector Alan Grant, on his way by train to Scotland for a long-overdue spell of R&amp;R, is on hand when a young man's body is found in an adjoining compartment.  By accident, he finds himself in possession of a clue that hints that something wasn't right about the young man's death;  in his pursuit of the truth, he travels as far as the Hebrides and meets characters ranging from a lovely widow who looks good in waders to a world-famous Arabian explorer, a young pilot friend of the deceased, and the unforgettable Wee Archie.  The story line seems to ramble at times, but the conclusion is highly satisfying.  Thoroughly enjoyable.	1998-07-04
US	52818926	RASCM6OKPGHDA	0061091790	153058743	After All These Years	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A winner all the way through	I've read hundreds of mystery novels and far too many novels that purported to be &quot;comic.&quot;  This one is just about perfect.  The heroine is witty, smart, and feisty.  Although her situation as deserted wife and murder suspect is anything but funny, she tackles the problem of solving the crime (and clearing her name) with guts and resourcefulness.  The plot has plenty of twists, the characters are human and not just cartoons, and the settings (from a posh Long Island suburb to the sleazier boroughs of the Big Apple) are vividly described.  And this is one of the funniest books I've ever read:  the heroine is a master of the one-liner, and her irreverent comments on everything from her next-door neighbor's cooking habits to the Other Woman's figure are a scream.  Don't read this book on a transcontinental flight -- you'll laugh all the way through and drive your seatmates crazy.	1998-07-02
US	52818926	R72ML8BQSOKU8	0061093092	239081481	Lily White	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Not up to her usual standards	Although I usually enjoy Isaacs' books immensely, this one lost my interest early on, and I found myself plugging through it in the hope that it'd get better (it never did).  The plot is full of enough interesting twists to keep you going, and the characters are (as usual) well drawn and complex.  Also, she's very good at dissecting the complications of family relationships, and Lily's family was horrifyingly believable.  What spoiled it for me, I think, was her device of alternating first-person narrative by Lily herself, and third-person narrative by some eye-in-the-sky (Lilycam?).  What &quot;makes&quot; Isaacs' novels for me (and I suspect for a lot of other readers) is the feisty, funny narrators -- and every time the Disembodied Voice started in, I found my attention wandering.  I hope Isaacs goes back to what she does best;  this isn't it.	1998-07-02
US	52818926	RCPIYC8PRCCE1	0385006896	390250393	The Complete Sherlock Holmes	Books	5	39	42	N	N	No lover of classic mysteries should be without it	I discovered Sherlock Holmes via a couple of short stories in anthologies in the late 1950's, when I was in 7th grade.  These whetted my appetite for more, so I was tickled to discover a copy of this book (in an earlier printing) at the house of a friend.  I wish it had been available as a multi-volume edition -- this one was mighty hard to sneak under the covers for post-bedtime reading by flashlight.  And it's highly unsuited for summertime use:  it'll sink your canoe or cause your hammock to sag to ground level!  Still, it's a good, reasonably priced, solidly bound, and well-printed volume that should be in the library of any lover of classic mystery stories.  <BR>As for the stories themselves, they're not only THE best mysteries in the English language, but fun to read as a picture of life in the Victorian era.  There are some clinkers, and some of the situations and characters are rather absurd (Doyle shares with most of his fellow-countrymen an  ineptitude for writing convincing American English!), but in general I'm still amazed at Doyle's ingenuity and his convincing portrayal of life in many different sectors of society.  This is one of the few favorite books from my childhood that I still enjoy -- not as an exercise in nostalgia but as a Good Read.	1998-07-01
US	52818926	R31JEATG355CXM	0890090572	671217915	The Original Illustrated Sherlock Holmes	Books	5	71	74	N	N	A great, and well-priced, addition to your collection	If you're a Holmes fan, this book will make a great addition to your collection:  it reproduces the original illustrations created by Sydney Paget for the stories in Strand Magazine.  (But it's not the &quot;complete&quot; Sherlock Holmes -- some of the stories were published elsewhere.)  Paget was originally a fashion illustrator, hired by mistake for his brother Walter who specialized in adventure stories -- but the Holmes tales brought out the best in Sydney.  While some of the pictures are merely dutiful scene-setting, others are exciting enhancements of the story (cf. the Hound of the Baskervilles!).  In any case, the pictures are a good corrective for the cartoonish Holmes and Watson depicted in dozens of Hollywood epics:  they're a pair of active, well-dressed young men, not the scarecrow and his doddering sidekick.  (The TV series with Jeremy Brett got this right, although it made a botch of some of the plots.)  And I enjoyed the glimpses they give you into the world of Victorian society -- the interiors of elegant living rooms and hansom cabs, ladies' at-home dresses, tea-trays and decanters.  At this price, you can't afford to pass it up!	1998-07-01
US	52818926	R221Q62M9MWT8P	0826316263	20184319	Who Is Witter Bynner?: A Biography	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Who is Witter Bynner?	Here are some answers I gleaned from this book:<BR> 1.  A minor poet who enjoyed some popularity earlier in this century.<BR> 2.  A translator who, without expert mastery of languages, managed to convey admirably the spirit of the original text.<BR> 3.  Homosexual in an era when (even in a hang-loose town like Santa Fe) he had to be discreet and even secretive about it.<BR> 4.  A devoted partner.<BR> 5.  A loving son.<BR> 6.  A pillar of the literary and artistic community.<BR> 7.  A dear and cherished friend to many.<BR> This is a well-researched and well-written biography of someone who I think was far more interesting as a man than a poet -- although there are those who swear that his translation of Lao Tzu's &quot;Tao Te Ching&quot; is the best one ever -- and I found it thoroughly enjoyable.  Kraft delineates not only Bynner's life but the various environments in which he lived and worked, so it's an interesting social history as well as a biography.  A small caution:  the selections from Bynner's poetry that Kraft quotes are probably the best of the lot.  If you read this biography and the anthology &quot;The Best of Witter Bynner&quot; (edited by Kraft), you've seen all the good stuff;  don't knock yourself out trying to find copies of the rest.  (I did -- although fortunately that's not hard in this town! -- and it really wasn't worth the effort.)	1998-07-01
US	52818926	R4IOHPMSPPBU5	0020545304	594831758	Shilling for Candles	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Literate, exciting, and fun	When a beautiful, successful movie star who's &quot;getting away from it all&quot; in the country is found murdered, Inspector Alan Grant is overwhelmed with suspects:  the unstable young man who's just run through the last of his fortune and whom she took in on impulse, her husband the adventure-seeker, an elusive Balkan revolutionary, rival actresses, her hypocritical brother, an enigmatic songwriter, a wealthy monastery, and the self-styled &quot;astrologer to the stars.&quot;  (Throw in a couple of art dealers and it'd sound a lot like Santa Fe!)  Tey blends all these disparate characters into a complex, entertaining tale, and tops it off with one of the most delightful adolescent tomboys the reader is ever likely to meet.  The solution is shocking but believable, and the conclusion of the book is charming.  Greatly enjoyable, and the points she makes in passing about the pitfalls of fame and the power of the press are still relevant even if the technology is dated.	1998-07-01
US	52818926	R1CINF6KD7HEAE	0671567772	288454653	The Silent Passage: Revised and Updated Edition	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Top of its class	As the Baby Boomers reach menopause in record numbers, books on the subject have begun to proliferate as well.  I've read many of them in the course of traversing this &quot;passage&quot; myself, and Sheehy's is by far the most levelheaded, sensible, and informative of the lot.  <BR>In the era in which we grew up, the normal processes of female life (such as childbirth), which had been successfully negotiated by our foremothers for centuries, had become &quot;pathologized&quot; into matters requiring a doctor's intervention -- if not hospitalization, surgery, or prolonged use of drugs.  Now that women are reclaiming their own health, it's become far too easy for writers with a political agenda to capitalize on women's (understandable) anti-doctor sentiment and err in the opposite direction.  <BR>Sheehy, a thorough and down-to-earth person (as her other books show), has researched the subject of menopause in detail.  While encouraging women to take responsibility for their own health, she avoids the extreme of insisting that &quot;real women do it all NATURALLY without hormones.&quot;  And, while she gives the medical establishment no quarter, she also makes it clear that their informed assistance can help a woman negotiate menopause with considerably less discomfort than we were led to believe was inevitable.  I was impressed with the good sense she showed in the first edition, and am encouraged that she's updated the book with recent information.  If you buy only one book on menopause, this is the one to get.	1998-06-29
US	52818926	R1A7VTI4GUEBFD	0140258795	803603230	Longitude: The True Story of a Lone Genius Who Solved the Greatest Scientific Problem of His Time	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A well-told, uncluttered tale	I greatly enjoyed this book, and felt that the level of technical detail was appropriate.  The author's intention, stated explicitly in the afterword, wasn't to describe the workings of Harrison's chronometers or to elucidate the various rival methods of determining longitude.  Rather, she wanted to tell the story of Harrison and the raw deal he got at the hands of the Longitude Commission, and I think she did a superb job of that.  (And, as someone who's worked in a number of government-sponsored R&amp;D environments over the years, I found the story sadly familiar:  the conflict between the astronomical method, which was politically favored and whose supporters controlled the Commission, vs. Harrison's down-to-earth and practical approach, could be duplicated in many R&amp;D arenas today!)<BR>If you're intrigued and want to know more specifics about the construction of Harrison's chronometers, the author provides an ample list of source material.  But for the rest of us, I think her choice of details was ample enough to illustrate Harrison's ingenuity (e.g., the self-oiling and bi-metallic clock parts) without overwhelming the reader with minutiae.  The readers who grumbled that this book was &quot;too lightweight,&quot; or &quot;an example of the dumbing-down of America,&quot; I think missed the point:  it isn't intended to be a scientific exposition but a tale of human nature.  When a researcher's emotional attachment to a theory gets in the way of scientific objectivity, the results can be highly destructive.  This is a lesson that many technical people need to learn, this book teaches it well, and I'm a little scared (though not surprised) by how many of them simply didn't get it.	1998-06-29
US	52818926	R15OVBH8WV0K3I	0061011738	976785159	The Great Taos Bank Robbery and Other Indian Country Affairs	Books	5	41	43	N	N	What New Mexico is really about	Readers expecting Leaphorn and Chee will be disappointed -- but this is a wonderful book, a collection of essays from Hillerman's journalist days.  He neatly skewers Indian-wannabes in &quot;The Navajo Who Had So Many Friends ...,&quot; although &quot;The Messenger Birds&quot; and the piece on Mt. Taylor prove (as if we didn't know it already) that he's highly sensitive to the Native American point of view.  And although the hilarious title story is mostly of historical interest in today's post-hippie Taos, it'll strike a responsive chord with anyone who's spent time in rural NM. The essay on Reies Tijerina elucidates the (still) sore point of the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo and its land-grant repercussions ... and yes, we do still have bubonic plague here, although in the era of antibiotics it's not the threat it was in medieval Europe.  For someone who wants a sense of what New Mexico is REALLY all about, I recommend this as far and away the best book on the subject (a good runner-up is Stan Crawford's &quot;Majordomo&quot;).	1998-06-24
US	52818926	R3P3Z32SFRWQP2	0684803860	59773996	The Daughter of Time	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A fascinating study of a historical mystery	As a novel, this book is rather lame:  although the characters are delightful and the historical mystery it addresses is intriguing, the plot (such as it is) is pretty perfunctory.  On the other hand, Tey's approach -- addressing the question of Richard III's guilt from the detective's perspective -- is refreshing, and some of the points she makes (e.g., the use of rumor and disinformation by Richard's opposition) have never been disproved.  Subsequent research seems to show that the Princes were indeed murdered during Richard III's reign, although whether he was personally responsible for ordering their deaths is, to my mind, still an open question.  But it's equally clear that the Tudor picture of him as a deformed monster (perpetuated by Shakespeare) was a gross exaggeration.  And, as Tey points out, his successor Henry VII methodically committed even more heinous atrocities in his effort to secure the throne for his heirs.<BR>Although it's possible to pick holes in some of Tey's arguments, she does make important points:  (1) Just because something is in the history books doesn't mean it happened that way -- or even happened at all;  (2) People behave like people, not like characters in a morality play;  and (3) If a historian depicts people in terms of Good Guys and Bad Guys, the obvious conclusion is &quot;ulterior motive&quot;!  In this era when so much of what passes for &quot;news&quot; is propaganda, I think the book is still very much worth reading.  (I first read it over 30 years ago, and still find myself muttering &quot;Tonypandy!&quot; on occasion ... )	1998-06-23
US	52818926	R3IF5BFQMURE3A	0913668583	678338472	The Three Boxes of Life and How to Get Out of Them: An Introduction to Life/Work Planning	Books	5	83	83	N	N	Still a mind-opener after all these years	I first read this book when it had been out only a few years, and it turned my head around.  I had been brought up, like most children of the 'fifties, to think of life as a series of rigidly defined serial roles:  first you were a student, then you were a worker, and finally you retired and got to do all the fun things you'd been putting off for the past 40-odd years.  Having worked my way through graduate school, and done a bit of traveling in the process, I of course knew how artificial these distinctions were -- but I still tended to feel vaguely guilty about my &quot;immature&quot; lifestyle and rebuke myself for not &quot;settling down&quot; like a Real Grownup was &quot;supposed to.&quot;  Bolles set me straight -- in fact I was doing a pretty good job of balancing growth, work, and leisure in my life, and had nothing to be ashamed of.  My subsequent work history has borne out the wisdom of his advice:  I've been happiest and most productive when my life achieves that same balance;  the most miserable time of my life was the nine-year period when I succumbed to the siren song of Silicon Valley and became a money-obsessed workaholic.  This is a terrific book, and one that bears rereading every few years, especially when you feel your life slipping out of balance.	1998-06-22
US	52818926	R1L8Q722U6V4ME	1566563003	487488063	Serpent of the Nile: Women and Dance in the Arab World	Books	5	36	38	N	N	Thoroughly enjoyable and informative	I bought this book on the recommendation of my belly dance instructor, who's had a copy for years and says it's a &quot;wonderful resource.&quot;  I agree wholeheartedly:  the author has amassed all sorts of information about the background of Middle Eastern dance, and the historical illustrations (many of which are from private collections) are superb:  Dinet's paintings of Ouled Nail dancers made my head spin with costume ideas.<BR>But this volume isn't just for dancers:  while dance holds the book together, the author has also created a fascinating study of the uneasy relationship between East and West.  The influence has been mutual:  Westerners have become obsessed with the seductive East, while Hollywood has had no small influence on Middle Eastern concepts of entertainment.  <BR>She also discusses the ambivalent position of the professional dancer in both societies.  While Middle Eastern women seem more comfortable with their bodies than Western women, both cultures have historically been conflicted (for religious regions) about the body and sensuality in general.  Middle Eastern women may dance in the privacy of their homes for their own entertainment, but a woman who earns her living dancing is viewed with equal suspicion in both cultures.<BR>The illustrations range from the gorgeous (Gerome's beladi dancer entertaining Turkish mercenaries) to the dutiful (stiff studio photographs of early dancers) to the unintentionally hilarious (Ruth St. Denis and Ted Shawn are a hoot), and the printer renders them well.  My only quibble:  in the paperbound edition, the binding is so tight that some of the two-page spreads are hard to see as a whole (cf. the Plate Dance!).  But in general this is a terrific book, and I'm glad it's back in print.	1998-06-22
US	52818926	R3NY878APO4OM	0062509586	106484852	The Essential Rumi	Books	5	44	47	N	N	Stunning poetry, beautifully translated	This is one of the best books of poetry translations I've ever read.  Barks has done a tremendous job of rendering Rumi into language that captures the poet's range:  oblique to blunt, ethereal to earthy.  While I can't comment on the accuracy of the translations, they work beautifully as English poetry -- and that, to me, is the crucial part.  To Western readers, Rumi was a misty eminence of literary and religious history, and Barks has brought him to glorious, complex life.<BR>One caution:  although Rumi wrote intensely spiritual poetry, some of the &quot;teaching tales&quot; are pretty raunchy (after reading about the maidservant and the donkey, I'll never look at gourds the same way again!).  Again, his poetry blends the divine and the human, heavenly love and earthly eroticism.  While there are analogues in Western religious poetry (e.g., Teresa of Avila and the English 17th-century poet Richard Crashaw), this may be unsettling for some readers.  <BR>The hardbound edition, at least, is well done:  the paper has a nice texture, the typography and page design enhance the text, and the cover is attractive (I haven't looked at the paperback).  For me, the attractiveness of the book greatly enhanced the experience of reading it.	1998-06-22
US	52818926	R3JF29J5EA2MHO	0385315058	620220364	It's Only Too Late If You Don't Start Now : How to Create Your Second Life After Forty	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Indispensible for the second half of your life	If you're over 40 and have never read any of Barbara Sher's books, start here:  she'll convince you that, far from being a long downhill slide into senility, this half of your life will be better than the first.  Not only that, she'll show you, in clear and practical terms, how to determine what you really want to do with the rest of your life -- and then how to do it.<BR>Even if you HAVE read her previous books, read this:  when you're over 40, it's all too easy to say &quot;Yeah, I know what I'd really like to do with my life, but I'm too old/responsible/busy to do it now ...&quot;  Sher neatly skewers all your excuses, and shows you that, far from hemming you in, growing older is a great liberator.  <BR>This is a bit more discursive than her past couple of books, but Sher's brisk, realistic approach is as refreshing as ever.  And, aside from a little overlap in some of the exercises, this isn't a rehash of her previous books.  Enthusiastically recommended.	1998-06-22
US	52818926	R24OSFI402LRMH	0844232556	9943499	Handbook for Freelance Writing	Books	4	81	81	N	N	A great guide -- IF this is what you want to do	This book is terrific if you're interested in making a living as a free-lance writer and would like practical guidance about how to do it -- and it's funny too.  The author focuses on the part most writers have trouble with -- finding a unique &quot;take&quot; on a subject -- and his advice about that is very good.  I also heartily endorse his comments about how to present your work most effectively to editors.  He doesn't downplay the drawbacks of working as a free-lancer, but he's also upbeat enough to make you believe it's possible if you're willing to put in the effort.  I agree with his recommendation to find a good accountant to handle the financial aspects -- but, for those of us who don't live in a pop. 485 town, it would have been useful to have some hints about what to look for in an accountant!  But in general this is an excellent guide to the free-lance life.<BR>However, based on my own experience (I've been making a living as a writer for most of my adult life), I have one caveat:  Perry's life as a writer may not be the best life for you.  If you just want to earn a living from your writing, and aren't fussy what you write about or for whom, this is a great book for you.  If you have an area of specialization (e.g., computers), you can still free-lance successfully in that area -- and it's sometimes helpful in getting work for you to be an &quot;expert.&quot;  But if you're a writer who wants more time to work on your Big Project (your serious novel, your mystery series, etc.), you're better off taking a full-time job in a totally unrelated field and writing in your spare time.  Free-lance writing is time-consuming, requires total commitment, and can be psychologically and physically draining;  if you have any spare time at all, you'll want to go fishing rather than work on your novel!  Before you quit your day job, consider WHY you want to become a free-lance writer;  you may find you're better off where you are.	1998-06-14
US	52818926	RNW4V0U61YZ9W	0787908746	80480454	The Truth About Burnout: How Organizations Cause Personal Stress and What to Do About It	Books	5	67	68	N	N	The absolutely best book on burnout and its cure	Most books on burnout are based on the premise that burnout happens because of some &quot;flaw&quot; in the individual, so the solution is for the individual to change him/herself.  This viewpoint masks the extent to which burnout has become endemic in American corporations, as well as in its more traditional venues, the &quot;helping&quot; professions. <BR> For 20 years, Maslach has been a voice in the wilderness, pointing out that the problem arises from the work environment and not the individual.  Far from being &quot;flawed,&quot; the people who burn out are those that a company can least afford to lose:  the ones who take their jobs seriously.  But the ugly little secret of American corporations is that burnout is cost-effective:  employees who put up with impossible workloads, lack of control, a hostile and competitive work environment, no recognition, and no raises can keep a &quot;downsized&quot; company going;  and if the employee burns out and quits, well, all the better for the bottom line ...  Maslach and Leiter prove convincingly that the costs of burnout are non-trivial to the corporation as well:  reduced productivity, loss of expertise, increased hiring and training requirements, employees who do the minimum rather than approaching their jobs with enthusiasm.  And they point out that the cure for the problem lies in a concerted effort by employees and management to improve the work environment.<BR>The most useful part of the book, to my mind, are the sections that describe how workers and managers can burnout-proof the work situation.  Some of the earlier chapters, on how burnout happens and what it consists of, became a little repetitious, but perhaps that's because I've seen enough burnout (in myself and in others) that much of this was &quot;old hat&quot; to me!  From my own experience, I agree wholeheartedly with the authors' conclusions about the causes for burnout, and I hope that more managers read this book and take its recommendations seriously.	1998-06-12
US	52818926	R3ROPS9GKK8EEA	013091231X	942116104	Burnout: The Cost of Caring	Books	4	75	75	N	N	Even more relevant today	I'm sorry to see that this book is out of print, because it's even more pertinent today than when it was first written.  The author describes the problem of &quot;burnout&quot; common in people in the helping professions, and points out that its causes come from the work environment rather than the individual.  This is in contrast to most other studies of burnout, which view it as strictly the individual's problem and thus something to be treated on the individual level.  She identifies the institutional problems that can lead to burnout -- e.g., excessive workloads and lack of control -- and offers suggestions on how to improve the work environment.  In the era of &quot;managed care,&quot; underfunded schools, and lack of support (financial and emotional) for people in the helping professions, her advice is more important than ever.  Her 1997 book is excellent, but it focuses more on corporations, while I think the helping professions still have the worst problems with burnout.  The writing in this book is more heavily &quot;academic,&quot; but it's a thorough and believable study, and still very much worth reading.	1998-06-12
US	52818926	R10BRBGQ1A56CH	002008823X	93185568	The Franchise Affair	Books	5	24	24	N	N	One of the all-time greats	A teenage girl, missing for weeks, reappears with a story of being kidnapped and imprisoned by an eccentric mother and daughter;  the latter enlists a bored country lawyer to defend them.  Tey's Inspector Alan Grant takes a back seat in this book to the main characters.  The plot is based on an actual eighteenth-century case, but Tey updates it and makes it fully believable.  Not only are all the characters (even minor ones) beautifully drawn, but the various settings in which the story takes place are memorably described.  The book is not only a whacking good mystery with a thoroughly satisfying solution, but also a vivid picture of post-WW II Britain, and a commentary on the power of the popular press that's more pertinent than ever today.  This one is high on my Top 10 Mysteries of All Time list.	1998-06-11
US	52818926	R1FJGHAZEYL0FG	0345350499	627223385	The Mists of Avalon	Books	4	30	34	N	N	A fresh perspective on a familiar tale	I'm immensely amused by the readers who complained that this novel was &quot;historically inaccurate&quot; and  &quot;Arthurian Britain wasn't really like this.&quot;  We don't know enough about the period, or the historical original of &quot;Arthur,&quot; to make such claims (I have a Ph.D. in medieval literature and have researched the subject pretty thoroughly).  Nor were Malory and his predecessors writing &quot;history&quot; in the sense we understand it;  their versions are just as much a &quot;fictionalization&quot; of an earlier period as this is.  Although the Arthurian myths (like other myths) reflect events and characters from an earlier time, they're primarily MYTHS, and every era (and every teller) has given them a different spin.  <BR>Bradley is a worthy addition to these ranks:  she presents the familiar material from a fresh perspective, creates memorable characters and situations, and weaves an amazing amount of myth (as well as archeological and historical data) into a complex but generally well-thought-out and compelling story.  One can find flaws in particular episodes or characters, but in general the book is an impressive achievement.  And for those readers who complain that the characters are self-centered or have mixed motives -- well, isn't that the point, that although human beings' actions and perspectives may be deeply flawed, the Goddess sees that it all works out in the end?  (I find Bradley's Lancelot considerably more credible than Tennyson's!)	1998-06-10
US	52818926	R3NN8DGMLB5IEZ	0875847161	571072005	Competing for the Future	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Out of touch with reality	My problem with this book is the same that I had with the authors' original &quot;core competencies&quot; article:  they're perpetuating the view of the corporation as a little kingdom with its own  political structure, slogans, foreign relations policy, and plans for future conquests.  In fact, in today's business environment, corporations are losing their cohesiveness and their individuality.  Furthermore, the authors seem to view &quot;strategy&quot; as something perpetuated by a corporation's strategists upon a vaguely defined &quot;marketplace.&quot;  What is missing from both concepts is PEOPLE:  an organization's &quot;core competency&quot; may rest upon half a dozen key people who think of themselves as free lances and may go to work for the competition tomorrow if they get a better offer.  Likewise, the marketplace is made up of individual customers, who have their own quirks and oddities and preferences, and failing to assess those is fatal.  I don't deny that corporations have their own culture, or that synergies can emerge from the interaction of individuals within that culture.  But what makes or breaks a corporation is its ability to attract and keep good PEOPLE, and all the authors' fuzzy theorizing seems to miss that point entirely.	1998-06-09
US	52818926	R35AEGB3XMSMLZ	089106074X	390575274	Gifts Differing: Understanding Personality Type	Books	4	173	184	N	N	Useful background, but won't help you discover your type	This book gives an overview of the history and theory behind the widely used Myers-Briggs personality type inventory, and briefly but thoroughly summarizes the characteristics of each personality type as well as the &quot;groups&quot; of related types.  This is straight from the horse's mouth:  Isabel Briggs Myers and her mother, Katharine Briggs, developed the inventory based on Jung's theory of psychological types, and tested it extensively before it became widely used.  The book is generally well organized, easy to read, and clearly written, with occasional touches of humor.  But it won't help you identify your type if you don't already know it -- I recommend Kiersey's &quot;Please Understand Me&quot; for that.  Still, it's a good resource if you already know your type and want to find out more about it.  (Incidentally, you don't have to swallow Jung's psychological theories whole in order to find the Myers-Briggs useful!)	1998-06-04
US	52818926	R1A00IETR9OON1	0201000822	969690851	Transitions: Making Sense Of Life's Changes	Books	5	85	93	N	N	Helpful for all sorts of life transitions	I've always taken a relentlessly positive approach to losses:  if your job goes away (for whatever reason), find a new one promptly;  if a romance goes phfft, go out and get involved in some activity where you'll meet new people;  etc.  I wouldn't let myself feel any negative emotions about the situation, let alone express them to anyone else (&quot;I'm not a whiner,&quot; I told myself).  However, after years of doing this, I realized that my life seemed to be getting narrower and duller.  This book helped to show me why:  having never dealt with the pain associated with previous transitions, I was subconsciously choosing the &quot;safer&quot; alternative rather than taking any risks that might lead to yet another painful loss.  <BR>Last year I was laid off from my job.  This time I let myself experience the anger and feelings of betrayal that this aroused in me, and I expressed those feelings to my family and a few close friends.  Interestingly, I found some short-term free-lance work almost immediately, then took a short vacation, and three weeks after I returned I had another job!  I don't say it was cause and effect, but this was one of the less painful transitions I've gone through.  This is a GREAT book.	1998-06-02
US	52818926	R3ON5CGIUERYOB	0805038604	594024090	Turn Left At The Pub: 22 Walking Tours Through The British Countryside	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Britain at its best	I took the very first edition of &quot;Turn Left at the Pub&quot; with me on my very first trip to Britain in 1972, when I was a graduate student on a limited budget.  Rather than doing the usual tourist stuff, I wanted to get a &quot;feel&quot; for what Britain was, and had been during the medieval period I was studying.  This book was terrific:  the authors offered fresh perspectives on popular destinations such as Bath and the Cotswolds, and their recommendations for &quot;off the beaten track&quot; walks in Cornwall were superb.  The descriptions were informative, thorough, and great fun to read.  Later editions of the book have updated the contents while remaining true to the spirit of the original.  This is one of the best guidebooks I've ever used, and it has much to offer to the seasoned traveler as well as the person making a first trip to Britain.  I highly recommend it.	1998-06-02
US	52818926	R2NKKRQUO8XYHR	0312953615	342638275	The Sculptress: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One of the best recent mystery novels	I've been an avid reader of mystery novels for nearly 40 years, and thought I'd seen everything.  But this book jolted me -- and not because of the violence (I've read much worse).  Not only is it a gripping, well-plotted story with well-drawn characters and a generally satisfying ending, but also the author grapples with larger issues --  the complexities of family relationships and marital problems;  the slippery slope of semi-legal business deals;  and beauty, or lack of it, and how it affects our view of people (the obese Olive turns out to be a far more admirable person than her beautiful sister Amber).  The 'good' characters aren't angelic, the bad guys are mostly weak folks trying to cover their behinds rather than deep-dyed villains, and both the writer and her ex-policeman lover are 'difficult,' conflicted people -- just like real life.  The book isn't an easy read -- you do have to pay attention, and I think some readers' discontent with the ending arises because they expect the author to hand them everything on the platter.  But stick with it (read it twice, if necessary) and you'll appreciate just how well done it is.	1998-06-01
US	52818926	RAN74M26RRTKH	0960695400	476599912	Please Understand Me: Character and Temperament Types	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Easy to use and amazingly accurate	I'm a sucker for &quot;personality type&quot; quizzes, but this is a winner.  The test went quickly, and was so astonishingly accurate about me that I found myself reading everything else I could get my hands on about the Myers-Briggs theory of personality types.  Later I took the full test and had it interpreted by a qualified professional -- and the results were exactly what I discovered from the self-test in this book.  The Myers-Briggs is a great tool for understanding yourself and others, and, on the basis of my experience and my reading, I'd recommend this book as the best place to get started.	1998-05-13
US	52818926	R3FQ54GAO6MUYR	0201489333	221281919	Jobshift: How To Prosper In A Workplace Without Jobs	Books	5	27	28	N	N	A stimulating glimpse of the future	In the era of downsizing and mergers, one hears far too many people bewailing what we've &quot;lost&quot;:  job security, well-defined career paths, companies that feel responsible for the people who work for them, employee loyalty.  Bridges offers a more positive perspective:  &quot;work&quot; as we conceive of it was an artifact of the Industrial Revolution, with its view of workers as cogs in a machine;  and, as that rigid structure gradually disappears, so will our present concept of &quot;jobs&quot; and &quot;careers.&quot;<BR>This was one of the first ripples in what has become a massive wave of books on the changing business world, including recent examples like &quot;Blur&quot; -- but it's refreshing, easy to read, and can change your whole view of what &quot;work&quot; entails.  I think it's especially important for young people still in school to read it:  don't waste your efforts preparing for a traditional &quot;career&quot; that may not be there five years after you graduate;  focus on developing your talents, your skills, and your entrepreneurial spirit instead, because those are what will be worth the most to you in the future.	1998-05-06
US	52818926	R3JM17N25EQEB8	1563523302	826470409	The Millionaire Next Door: The Surprising Secrets of America's Wealthy	Books	3	0	0	N	N	But is it living?	The basic principles endorsed by the MNDs (live below your means, save, invest, and don't waste your money on ostentation) are sound, and I agree that we'd all be better off if we followed them.  On the other hand, there's nothing intrinsically admirable about being a millionaire, and it's possible to follow these principles and still be a scumbag. It's high time we in this country got over our focus on &quot;how much ___ you have&quot; and learned how to LIVE WELL -- and that has more to do with your attitude than your bank balance.<BR>  To me, a good life includes meaningful work, solid relationships with your family and friends, participating membership in your community, a rich mental, emotional, and spiritual life, and a living situation that supports all of these.  Some MNDs have these, and some don't.  I'm far more interested in hearing about people who live well -- whatever the size of their bank balance -- than  in many of the self-absorbed, money-obsessed misfits chronicled in this book.	1998-05-05
US	52818926	R2ZAEIZVLL5EKQ	0395848385	591032379	The Gate of Angels	Books	5	24	25	N	N	A small miracle	Penelope Fitzgerald is truly amazing.  This novel is short, easy to read, and often very funny;  at the end, you think &quot;How charming!&quot; and put it down.  But it keeps echoing in your mind:  no detail in the book is insignificant, and everything is subtly linked together to support its central themes.  (Compare Pope Benedict's grace, the inscription on Aunt Effie's ring, and the angels on the college gate;  or consider Fred's mother and sisters against Professor Matthews' seemingly irrelevant ghost story.  And note Professor Flowerdew's qualms about the new atomic theory, which relies on the &quot;unobservable&quot; ... )  The book is far more moving than most novels five times its length, and leaves an indelible impression on the reader.	1998-05-05
US	52818926	R1OBSWA3MVW4JH	0028605950	661257480	100 Best Careers for the 21st Century	Books	3	21	21	N	N	A totally wrong approach to choosing a career	I think Field's list of &quot;growth fields&quot; is accurate, so the book is a valuable resource for this reason.  On the other hand, if you're young and unsure what career to choose, the absolutely WORST thing you can do is sit down with this book  and say &quot;Well, I'm good at x, y, and z, and p and q are growth fields, so therefore I should be a ... &quot;  You may (as I did) end up in a job you do moderately well, but hate!  You'll do far better to start by asking yourself, &quot;What do I value the most?&quot; and &quot;What do I most enjoy doing?&quot; -- and then ask yourself &quot;How can I make this into a job?&quot;  <BR>Books like this always remind me of the scene in &quot;The Graduate&quot; where a helpful elder takes Dustin Hoffman aside and tells him he has one word of advice for him:  &quot;Plastics!!&quot;  Barbara Sher's books are a great antidote.	1998-05-05
US	52818926	R1Z3P26UROQDE4	0865475318	170125661	Last Night's Fun: A Book About Irish Traditional Music	Books	5	22	24	N	N	An experience not to be missed	I've been a Celtic music fan for many years, long before it began to turn up on the New Age charts.  While I don't mean to knock that genre (which has given some splendid traditional musicians -- e.g., the O'Domhnaills of Nightnoise and Alasdair Fraser of Skyedance -- the wider listenership they deserve), traditional Celtic music is an altogether grittier, funkier breed.<BR>Ciaran Carson brings a poet's sensibility to the performer's-eye perspective of Irish music, from last night's fun to the next morning's rude awakening.  Irish music isn't simply the tunes themselves;  it's the old-timers who performed them, the instruments they played, the pints of Guinness, the choking smoke in the bar and the pouring rain outside, and Carson conveys the whole experience admirably.  It's almost as good as being there.	1998-04-30
US	52818926	R2JATFIKARHFMS	1877727571	624719169	Four Questions of Melancholy: New & Selected Poems (Terra Incognita Series)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Brilliant poetry that deserves to be better known	Slovenia has always been a nation of poets (the oldest known musical instrument, a Neanderthal bear-bone flute, was discovered there).  As their country was annexed, subdivided, and subjected to one conquerer after another, the Slovene language and literature held them together.  <BR>Of the many fine Slovene poets writing today, Salamun is probably the most prolific and best-known -- and deservedly so.  This anthology presents a well-chosen overview of his work, put into English by a variety of translators.  My only criticism: their styles are so different that a reader may be left uncertain whether the dizzying variability of the diction is Salamun's or theirs.  (An out-of-print volume, &quot;The Shepherd, The Hunter&quot; translated by Sonja Kravanja, I felt gave a better sense of Salamun's distinctive &quot;voice.&quot;)  Still, this is a good selection, nicely presented, and well worth reading.	1998-04-30
US	52818926	R3GL5OZE97TIUK	0395859972	852870338	The Blue Flower	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A splendid portrait of the Romantic era	This is a wonderful evocation of the Romantic era in all its intellectual fervor -- and its immense folly.  The clue to the whole book, I think, is on page 2 (except that you have to read Chapter 8 about Fichte to understand its full meaning).  If reality is what we THINK it is, it's perfectly reasonable for Fritz to declare that Sophie is his &quot;soul's guide&quot; -- even if, in reality, she's 12 years old and dumb as a box of rocks.<BR>The author uses well-chosen and vivid details (the ingredients of soups, the lapel inkwells used by students) to bring the poet's world to life, and to point up the contrast between his aspirations and the stifling family and social obligations he must contend with.  But this isn't an earnest historical study;  it's touching, and surprisingly funny too.  I thoroughly enjoyed it.	1998-04-22
US	52818926	RCFE7LPYJML63	0465090974	570727715	The Way We Never Were: American Families And The Nostalgia Trap	Books	5	82	92	N	N	A refreshingly realistic myth-buster	Americans, especially those of the conservative persuasion, tend to idealize the 'Fifties as Paradise Lost:  schools taught readin', 'ritin', and 'rithmetic;  sex was confined to the bedrooms of married couples;  teenagers were virginal and children docile; God's in his heaven, Eisenhower's in the White House, all's right with the world ...<BR>In fact, as Coontz points out, the era wasn't all that innocent (her statistics on teenage pregnancies and shotgun weddings are a real eye-opener).  Furthermore, the myth of the suburban two-parent, two-child family, self-sufficient economically and emotionally, was not only fostered and perpetuated for economic reasons, but a historical anomaly even in the U.S. (not to mention the rest of the world).<BR>What Roberta Pollack Seid did in &quot;Never Too Thin&quot; for the MetLife weight tables, and Susan Faludi did in &quot;Backlash&quot; for the assertion that &quot;a single woman over 40 has more chance of getting killed by a terrorist than of getting married,&quot; Stephanie Coontz does for the nuclear family.  Her political agenda shows at times, but in general the facts she marshals are persuasive no matter whether you agree with it or not.	1998-04-09
US	52818926	R3V5TL4MXY8G1L	0452279380	217905301	On the Edge of a Dream: The Women of Celtic Myth and Legend	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Storytelling at its finest	Jennifer Heath is a storyteller in the ancient tribal sense:  someone who, while faithful to tradition, makes the old stories fresh and new.  Irish mythology has suffered more than most from being sanitized, dogmatized, and politicized;  she recreates the myths believably as reflections of a world view and moral sense that are worlds away from their 19th-century redactors'.  And the tales are well told, too:  there's broad humor and wrenching tragedy;   the courtship of the goddess Fand by the wily sea-god Manaan Mac Lir is delightful;  and I was tickled to see Cuchulain, who tends to be &quot;chevalier sans peur et sans reproche&quot; in the &quot;orthodox&quot; version of the myths, depicted as a faithless and not overly bright jock.  My only criticism:  I wish the book were longer;  I was sorry when it ended!	1998-04-06
US	52818926	R1C8BZ39WX6NHP	158060045X	261628166	TurboTax 1040	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Kept me on the edge of my chair	This had the elements of a good thriller:  nail-biting suspense, deep-dyed perfidy, false hopes, shocking turns of events, and finally, at last, a happy ending.  But it was only my 1997 Form 1040, and  TurboTax made it all happen as effortlessly as possible.<BR>I've used various versions of TurboTax to create my returns for many years.  Unlike most taxpayers (including me), Intuit understands the tax code.  All you have to do is plug in the words and numbers, and the program does the rest.  And, unlike the tax code, TurboTax gets simpler every year.   It's cheaper than most tax preparation services, and you can do it at home in your bunny slippers.<BR>This isn't a substitute for a personal assistant:  before you start, you still have to sort all those crumpled receipts and figure out whether that unfamiliar number you phoned in Chicago last July was a business call.  TurboTax won't magically transform you into a well-organized person, or solve your financial problems, or cure your bunions.  But it's made what used to be a major annual ordeal comparatively painless for me, and it well deserves to be a best-seller.	1998-04-02
US	52818926	RHMEMRW5Q5S0R	0440505003	76382648	I Could Do Anything If I Only Knew What It Was: How to Discover What You Really Want and How to Get It	Books	5	87	88	N	N	Practical, realistic, and uplifting	&quot;Wishcraft&quot; knocked my socks off many years ago.  While this didn't pack the same punch for me, I still recommend it heartily as a follow-up to the previous book:  she builds upon its insights  to offer eminently practical help for discovering what you want in life.  I like Sher's approach for two reasons:  (1) she makes it clear that achieving what you want in life doesn't necessarily shape itself neatly into &quot;career&quot; (a common mistake in career and life-planning books), and (2) she recognizes that not everyone has one GRAND passion;  some people are generalists by nature, and that's just as valid (and achievable!) a way of life.  Her down-to-earth and realistic approach is refreshing, and she makes no extravagant promises.  In fact, her books WILL change your life -- but only because she's shown you that you know what you're looking for, and just need some practical guidance about how to find it!	1998-04-01
US	52818926	R2PSVTLY6TXIO5	0345340892	899920203	Wishcraft : How to Get What You Really Want	Books	5	47	50	N	N	The single best career and life planning book I've ever read	Most books on life planning have, to my mind, two fatal flaws:  they assume that your &quot;strengths&quot; are an infallible guide to what you &quot;should&quot; be doing with your life;  and they then attempt to map this to a &quot;career.&quot;  Barbara Sher starts with the basics:  what is most important to YOU?  Given that, how are you to get it?  (And this doesn't necessarily translate into &quot;career&quot;!) Sher also takes the planning process beyond self-analysis and shows you, in clear and practical terms, how to get the help you need to achieve what you want.  Her subsequent books are all worth reading, but start with this one;  it's a breath of fresh air amongst the hundreds of &quot;Find the Right Career For You&quot; look-alike guides!	1998-04-01
US	52818926	R30P90B9N2HKYM	0440507561	666166450	Live the Life You Love: In Ten Easy Step-By Step Lessons	Books	5	28	28	N	N	One of the few self-help books that delivers on its promises	Several years ago I concluded, regretfully, that &quot;education&quot; is a process of learning what we CAN'T do, and that &quot;maturity&quot; seems to mean that we abandon progressively greater parts of ourselves to pursue ever more narrowly focused goals.  Sher's exercises bring back those wonderful days in childhood when most of life lay before us and we thought we could be anything we wanted.  <BR>But this isn't merely fantasizing about what &quot;could have been.&quot;  The great value of Sher's approach is that she shows you how to learn from those old dreams and find the life that's RIGHT for you.  Furthermore, she offers concrete, step-to-step guidance on how to make your dreams reality;  this isn't one of those vague &quot;change your life&quot; books that leaves you all charged up but doesn't show you how to get from here to there.  Highly recommended.	1998-04-01
US	52818926	R1372QN8HATJYO	0201461358	689709051	Discovering Your Career In Business	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Credible answers -- but may be the wrong question	The authors have taken an important problem -- how to ensure the best 'fit' between a person's values and interests, and a particular job -- and applied both intelligent scrutiny and strict scientific method to come up with trustworthy results.  The &quot;Business Career Interest Inventory&quot; is a valuable tool (at a good price), and the book offers excellent insight into interpreting its results and using them to discover which business career best suits you. <BR>I have only one area of disagreement with this approach, but it's a profound one.  The authors seem to assume that the business world, as it exists today, is a &quot;given,&quot; and that choosing a business career requires you merely to identify the right shape of hole into which you, the peg, will fit.  In fact the business world is undergoing profound changes:  the hierarchical model of management is flattening;  more people are adopting the philosophy that they work &quot;for themselves&quot; rather than attaching their loyalty to a company or an industry;  and the transition from a product-oriented to a service economy, and from a skills-based to a knowledge-based model of employee competence, is transforming the work place.  <BR>How do the interest patterns identified by the BCCI fit into a business environment in a state of flux?  Maybe the authors will address this problem in the second edition ... but the fact that they didn't (yet) makes me question the premises upon which this book is based.	1998-03-25
US	52818926	R4G6NDWYT1OD6	0316812471	623103021	Revolution from Within: A Book of Self-Esteem	Books	4	11	13	N	N	A real upper	It's unfortunate that this book was read and reviewed as &quot;the scoop on Gloria Steinem's love life&quot; or &quot;just goes to show that feminists have psychological problems.&quot;  What she's really talking about is a process of inner liberation that transcends age, looks, and sex.  The book has valuable insights for everyone, and deserves to be read with more attention to its contents than to its author's political beliefs.	1998-03-19
US	52818926	RWQIY7W3GRJD2	0140167153	355880617	Your Money or Your Life: Transforming Your Relationship with Money and Achieving Financial MORE	Books	4	47	50	N	N	Some excellent advice, but the whole program has flaws	The first few chapters of this book are great:  they offer a fresh perspective on why we work so hard to make money but are never satisfied, and the authors' advice about balancing your expenses against your expenditure of life energy is excellent.  <BR>However, I have several problems with the &quot;program&quot; the authors recommend.  (1)  It's far too easy for frugality to become an end in itself.  I know ex-Yuppies who are now as obsessive and self-righteous about penny-pinching as they used to be about owning the latest and greatest espresso machine, and I frankly don't see that as an improvement.  (2)  The program requires minute attention to detail, and not everyone is capable of this.  That doesn't mean (as the authors imply) that they &quot;don't care&quot; about managing their money or achieving financial independence -- but there ARE other ways of achieving these goals besides the authors' &quot;one size fits all&quot; program.  (3)  As other critics have pointed out, the authors' recommendations on how to invest your money are rather dubious:  it's much safer, and potentially more profitable, to diversify.  (4)  The authors seem to set up a false dichotomy between &quot;your job&quot; and &quot;what you want to do with your life,&quot; and imply that you have to get out of the work world to achieve the latter.  I don't think the two are necessarily incompatible -- some of us actually like our jobs, and would just like to change our hours or work in a less stressful atmosphere.  I think, too, that if there's something wrong with the world of work, it's better to stay in it and try to IMPROVE it than to drop out.  (Relevant reading here:  Matthew Fox's &quot;The Reinvention of Work,&quot; Marsha Sinetar's books.)	1998-03-19
US	52818926	R2PRU78APSCSGN	0044408714	613648856	The Forbidden Body: Why Being Fat is Not a Sin (Issues in Women's Health series)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	One of the best books on the subject I've ever read	Shelley Bovey is a writer on health subjects, as well as a fat woman who's been through all the guilt, humiliation, and self-loathing that fat women experience constantly, so she knows whereof she writes.  She argues convincingly that weight and morality have been inappropriately intertwined:  the real issue isn't health but denial of the &quot;untidier&quot; aspects of ourselves.  Excellent reading for anyone who's struggled with a &quot;weight problem&quot; -- and those who love them.	1998-03-19
US	52818926	R2V0B4RVXCU89D	0136156002	81195221	Never Too Thin: Why Women Are at War With Their Bodies	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A must-read for anyone who has a &quot;weight problem&quot;	In the era of &quot;The Fat of the Land&quot; and Fen-Phen, this book deserves a wider readership.  The author convincingly shows that the supposed &quot;obesity epidemic&quot; of modern times has to do more with changing standards than with reality.  And her analysis of the &quot;scientific&quot; basis of the Met Life weight tables is an eye-opener and deserves to be better known.  This book is a great antidote for the ever-increasing plague of diet books, and I hope to see it back in print soon.	1998-03-19
US	52818926	RO5WMQB115GAU	0060630620	426810153	The Reinvention of Work: New Vision of Livelihood for Our Time, A	Books	4	34	43	N	N	Positive, uplifting, and not terribly practical	Like most of Fox's books, this one ranges from the sublime (the cosmic implications of &quot;true work&quot;) to the ridiculous (there's nothing sillier than a celibate priest writing about sex).  And Fox's ego is far too much in evidence at times.  Still, I'd recommend this book to anyone who's trying to rethink their relationship to &quot;work.&quot;  I picked it up at a time when I was undergoing immense life and career changes.  Although it wasn't much help in practical decision-making, it did give me a fresh perspective on how my values related to the jobs I'd had (they didn't), and got me thinking about how I could translate them into work I felt better about.  Also, although I'm a former Catholic and hypersensitive to writers who try to force their doctrinal perspective on you, I felt that Fox generally managed to be spiritual without being sectarian (that's probably why he's no longer a Catholic!).  In general, this book has a lot to recommend it, although keeping your tongue in your cheek at times is strongly advised.	1998-03-19
US	52818926	R9XLH0QKNOZBY	0385425074	227839006	Backlash: The Undeclared War Against American Women	Books	5	2	9	N	N	An eye-opener and myth-buster	Faludi clearly has an agenda, but she's up-front about it, and I felt she marshalled the facts convincingly.  I don't agree with her in all respects -- for instance, I don't think the anti-abortion movement was founded ONLY to erode women's rights;  there are more complicated moral issues involved.  But her analyses of the deceptive use of statistics, as well as flat-out falsehoods, to &quot;prove&quot; the failure of feminism are perceptive and enlightening, and her scholarship is impressive.  (Anyone who claims that this book is merely a piece of left-wing propaganda obviously hasn't read the footnotes!)	1998-03-19
US	52818926	RABWISFS19DUK	0877012385	916145115	Sushi	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Tasty visuals but low-protein content	For the sushi lover, this is erotica: scrumptious morsels, beautifully photographed and lovingly described.  The author has eaten her way through an impressive variety of sushi, and her affection for her subject is evident throughout.  However, the book is thin on practical guidance -- you won't find instructions on how to make sushi, or how to distinguish good sushi restaurants from those to be avoided at all costs.  And it's dated:  I haven't seen kobashira in a sushi bar for 10 years or so, after a contamination scare in Japan halted exports of this scallop.  Still, the book is a pleasure to look at and to handle -- and I'm forever grateful to the author for introducing me to kohada.	1998-03-18
US	52818926	R2CWVZSEZ7T10K	0787110329	266632603	The Adventures of Brother Cadfael: The Summer of the Danes/Brother Cadfael's Penance/The Heretic's Apprentice/Monk's Hood/The Potter's Field/Saint Peter's Fair	Books	5	17	18	N	N	The best, and not-so best, of Ellis Peters	Ellis Peters has made the medieval mystery novel what it is today, setting high standards not only for historical accuracy but for believable characters, well-thought-out plots, and exquisite writing.  Unfortunately, she doesn't always live up to these standards herself.<BR>This package comprises some of the high points of the series:  Monk's Hood, St. Peter's Fair (which has a far more satisfying conclusion than the rather simplistic TV movie), The Heretic's Apprentice, and especially The Potter's Field, which begins quietly but turns into a powerful tale of youthful idealism and middle-aged passion.<BR>The Summer of the Danes has memorable characters and a beautifully described excursion outside the confines of Shrewsbury, and Peters cleverly links the fortunes of Cadfael et al. to significant events in Welsh history (which she has also made into a series of novels).  But, a couple of chapters into the story, the author forgets that Brother Mark can't speak Welsh and Cadfael is supposed to be there as his interpreter (well, maybe it's a miracle, but in that case she forgot to credit St. Winifrid!).<BR>Likewise, in Brother Cadfael's Penance, our hero unravels a murder using physical evidence plus a fishy explanation offered by the perpetrator;  later on he discovers that the murder was avenged by someone who identified the murderer without access to any of the evidence!  Again, the characters and the setting are vivid, the &quot;real&quot; history is an integral part of the story, and Brother Cadfael's conflict between his duties as a monk and as a father makes for an engaging tale -- but the implausibility of the &quot;payoff&quot; seriously weakens the novel.<BR>I feel that, in general, this has the highest consistent quality of any contemporary mystery series.  All the novels are worth reading, but some require tongue placed firmly in cheek first.	1998-03-16
US	52818926	R1XJWU4BKR9KE0	0876043317	89312940	Money and Spirit: Creating a New Consciousness in Making and Managing Your Money	Books	5	10	10	N	N	One of the most helpful money management books I've read	The rather cutesy dialogues and the mysticism might be off-putting to some people.  But Brown perceptively analyzes why people are conflicted about money management, and provides practical, level-headed advice on how to overcome these conflicts.  The equation works both ways:  money problems are often a symptom of a deeper spiritual malaise;  but learning to manage money successfully can have profound effects on one's sense of self-worth and competence.  Brown writes a weekly column in the Santa Fe New Mexican, and I hope he either collects his columns into a book or writes another one -- what he has to say is  helpful and important (and a lot more realistic than the &quot;one size fits all&quot; money management techniques promoted by books such as &quot;Your Money or Your Life&quot;!).	1998-03-12
US	52818926	R3QV1LQLPQYMBJ	1573226513	599781190	A Woman's Book of Life: The Biology, Psychology, and Spirituality of the Feminine Life Cycle	Books	3	79	88	N	N	Nobody's life that I recognize ...	I found this book rather disappointing.  Borysenko is at her strongest when she discusses the body-mind connection and the changes a woman goes through in the course of the life cycle;  these parts of the book contain useful, up-to-date information for women of any age, and I wouldn't hesitate to recommend them to readers.  On the other hand, the &quot;typical woman&quot; whose story she chooses to present throughout the book is a white, upper-middle-class, well-educated woman who takes an exotic job, marries a professional man, and has perfect children ... sorry, but this doesn't sound like most women I know.  Her heroine's big teenage crisis is whether or not to diet;  her major marital upheaval turns out to be a misunderstanding;  and when her husband dies she immediately finds another boyfriend.  Where's the child who cuts school or gets involved in drugs;  the husband who ditches her to marry a younger woman, leaving her to support herself and the kids on a secretary's salary;  the chronic illness that blights her old age?  Or do only women who lead relatively sheltered lives have the time and leisure to consider the meaning of the cycles in their lives?  Unfortunately, that's the impression the book left me with.  Borysenko is apparently a kind, compassionate person who wants to help people make sense of their lives, but the range of readers addressed by this book is awfully narrow.	1998-02-18
US	52818926	RZCY7LAVL7PRO	0385418493	610658517	How the Irish Saved Civilization: The Untold Story of Ireland's Heroic Role From the Fall of Rome to the Rise of Medieval Europe (The Hinges of History)	Books	3	4	10	N	N	History Lite	This is a well-written, charming book.  The title chapter is interesting and generally accurate (to my knowledge -- and I have a graduate degree in medieval literature).  Cahill's observations on the role of women in the Celtic church were intriguing, too, and I'd like to read more on that subject. <BR>However,  I found the author's equation of 'civilization' (pronounced, no doubt, with a British accent) with The Classics rather narrow-minded.  His picture of life in pre-Christian Ireland relies on the highly arguable assumption that heroic literature is an accurate depiction of daily life.  And I think he exaggerates the degree to which Christianity changed the behavior and beliefs of the &quot;average&quot; Irish man or woman:  I live in New Mexico, where all the Pueblo people have been nominally Catholic for the past 400 years, and yet they're still dancing to call the deer and increase the corn crop.<BR>If you view this book as &quot;a literate man's thoughts about the history of Christianity in Ireland,&quot; it sort of works.  But as a historical work, it's pretty lightweight (I read the whole book on a flight between Albuquerque and Dallas!).  It's a delightful story -- but it's definitely not the whole story.	1998-02-10
US	52818926	R362NEGLR60BR7	0465017592	208403894	Gifted Children: Myths And Realities	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Authoritative, thorough, and convincing	This is the best-researched book on this subject that I've ever read (the bibliography is 1/4 of the book).  While the author doesn't provide any revolutionary insights of her own, she's done a terrific job of summarizing current research on gifted children, debunking commonly held stereotypes about giftedness, and translating researchers' insights into practical advice.  While her style is rather dry, the book is accessible and generally free of psychological jargon.  The book is a gold mine for parents and teachers, and a benchmark for researchers into giftedness.<BR>I was particularly struck by Winner's convincing data showing that gifted children's minds actually work differently from average children's;  they're not just &quot;more of the same.&quot;  As a former gifted child who went through ten years of educational hell before finally hitting my stride in mid-high school, I think that this point can't be emphasized strongly enough.  We're capable of growing up into swans;  don't try to convince us that we're defective ducks!	1998-02-10
US	52818926	RDS1R69WTFBMD	0446353426	656227699	The Tenants of Time	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Vivid and memorable	I thoroughly enjoyed this book, although I found it a less stunning experience than the author's previous novel, &quot;The Year of the French.&quot;  Once again, he's chosen a little-known incident in Irish history and written about it vividly, with a cast of memorable characters.  He depicts the landscape, the people, and the historical setting with a wealth of detail, and both dialogue and descriptions are beautifully expressed.  I think the book isn't as strong as its predecessor for two reasons:  while &quot;The Year of the French&quot; had one central character whose rise and downfall had the force of Greek tragedy, this novel is built around a group of characters and doesn't seem as strongly focussed.  Again, there are two climaxes -- the abortive rebellion, and its consequences many years later -- so I felt rather let down after the first, and the story seemed to lose its momentum for a while, by contrast with the inexorable progression of events in his first novel.  Still, it's not only an extremely good historical novel, but a good NOVEL and well worth reading (even if you're not Irish!).	1998-02-10
US	52818926	R2V8EQC78F1ZHL	0805010203	154264141	The Year of the French	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A true classic	G.K. Chesterton once wrote, &quot;For the great Gaels of Ireland/Are the men that God made mad,/For all their wars are merry/And all their songs are sad.&quot;  This book captures that spirit admirably.  The author has a sure grasp of historical fact, both of political events and of the texture of daily life (the smell of seaweed, the color of whisky).  And he writes beautifully, with an ear for dialogue and an eye for the telling detail.  But the real power of the book lies in the characters he creates, vividly realized and memorable (and this is true of both major and minor characters);  the reader grows to care about them and feels genuine sorrow at their misfortunes.  In the process, too, one learns a surprising amount of history.  By the end of the book, I felt I understood the complex relationship between the British and the Irish far better than ever before -- and I'm part Irish, from a County Mayo family, and thought I knew it all already.  I highly recommend this book.	1998-02-09
US	52818926	R1FOBPCLCIN699	0446673714	604192884	The Soul's Code: In Search of Character and Calling	Books	3	11	14	N	N	Depends on whose soul ...	Hillman has written a good description of the kind of person commonly labeled &quot;gifted.&quot;  This person is characterized by a passion for a certain field of endeavor (be it music, mathematics, literature, politics, or painting), shows this passion early in life, and pursues it with enthusiasm, focus, and indifference to others' opinions.  On the other hand, personifying this passion as a &quot;daimon,&quot; while paying tribute to its force, seems redundant and clumsy to me:  what's wrong with saying that this particular constellation of personality traits is &quot;innate&quot; and leaving it at that? <BR>  My other objection is that Hillman implies that EVERYONE has such a &quot;passion,&quot; and this simply isn't true:  although people's talents and interests vary widely, not everyone has this degree of commitment to one particular area.  Some people are &quot;generalists,&quot; happiest when they can pursue a variety of interests.  By suggesting that everybody has, or should have, a single focus in life, Hillman is presenting a rather narrow view of human potential.  <BR>  Finally, as other critics have pointed out, this is a badly written book, diffuse and repetitious.  I felt that he said everything he had to say in the first couple of chapters, and from then on he just repeated himself endlessly.  His insights have applicability to certain people, but not everyone, and it's presumptuous of him to claim otherwise.	1998-02-09
US	52818926	R2NGBT667JWSUS	0553375067	559651636	Emotional Intelligence: Why It Can Matter More Than IQ	Books	4	114	150	N	N	Yes, but ....	I have  mixed feelings about this book.  On the one hand, I think Goleman has made a good case for broadening our view of &quot;intelligence&quot; to encompass more than what is measured by an IQ test.  And I strongly agree with him that we need to educate children emotionally as well as intellectually. <BR>On the other hand, both the author and the journalists who have written about his findings have used them to support a false dichotomy:  EQ is the opposite of IQ, highly intelligent people are emotional idiots, and so forth.  He quotes, ad nauseam, the story of a high school student who, when his teacher gave him a B instead of the A he thought he deserved, shot the teacher.  This perpetuates the stereotype that gifted children are lacking in EQ, which other studies have shown is NOT the case -- in fact, they tend to be hyper-responsible, sensitive to the feelings and wishes of others, and prone to blame themselves rather than others when things go wrong in their lives (gifted teenagers commit suicide at a higher rate than average teenagers).<BR>  Gifted children have it hard enough already:  they're considered &quot;nerds&quot; and &quot;freaks&quot; by their peers, and expected to be perfect at everything by their parents and teachers;  but they're not supposed to have problems (in or out of school) because, after all, they're GIFTED.  Labeling them (falsely) as emotionally deficient, and asserting that there's some fundamental conflict between IQ and EQ, just makes things even harder for them.	1998-02-09
US	52818926	RZQBEGYNSKKVD	0465016901	241968441	The Drama of the Gifted Child: The Search for the True Self, Revised Edition	Books	4	85	110	N	N	Defines the problem well, but blaming is counterproductive	The title essay of this book well describes a far too common problem among gifted (intellectually, artistically, or emotionally) children.  Because of their quick perceptions and sensitivity, they are deeply attuned to others' wishes, needs, and expectations, and tend to structure their lives around those rather than following the guidance of their &quot;true selves.&quot;  From my own experience, I completely agree with Miller's description of the problem, and of what in the child's psychological makeup leads to its occurrence.  But I part company with her when she places the blame for the child's problems solely on &quot;narcissistic parents.&quot;  While such parents undoubtedly exist, I think that most parents are sincerely trying to do what's right for their children;  they do harm out of ignorance or misguided beliefs rather than deliberate cruelty.  For instance, a gifted child may be taught to belittle his/her gifts because the parent believes &quot;humility&quot; is important, not because he/she is selfishly trying to crush the child's spirit.  Rather than blaming parents, I think it's more productive to acknowledge their desire to raise their children right, and educate them about the ways in which they may be unconsciously causing harm.  And it's far more positive for an adult who recognizes this problem in him/herself to take action to honor the &quot;true self,&quot; rather than getting hung up on &quot;what my parents did wrong&quot; and sinking into a victim mentality.	1998-02-04
US	52818926	R3PKOUTX6DWPFF	0671758187	246999178	Off the Road: A Modern-Day Walk Down the Pilgrim's Route into Spain	Books	5	56	58	N	N	Wherever you go, there you are	I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  The author is frank, spares neither himself nor others, and his writing is often screamingly funny.  His fellow pilgrims are a motley collection of rogues, jocks, fanatics, earnest believers, and clueless tourists -- but even in more pious eras, people went on pilgrimages for all sorts of reasons, few of them lofty (witness the Canterbury Tales).  Hitt never manages to pin down his own motivation for making the trip, doubtless disappointing readers who expect every journey to end in a blinding flash of insight.  But I found his candor refreshing:  he tells it like it is and doesn't pretend to a piety he doesn't feel, even when he's momentarily overcome with emotion upon reaching his goal.  Chaucer had it right:  a pilgrimage is a metaphor for life itself, we're all on this road together, and, if you keep your eyes open, you'll learn that the journey IS the destination.	1998-02-04
US	52818926	RUYWOTCJ42Y68	0345409876	737501549	Women Who Run with the Wolves: Myths and Stories of the Wild Woman Archetype	Books	5	1	3	N	N	It can change your life (really)	I picked up this book when it was already a best-seller, and hence approached it with a certain cynicism:  it sounded like yet another touchy-feely, &quot;let it all hang out&quot; invitation to express aspects of one's character that are probably better left unexpressed.<BR> Was I wrong!  Myths are powerful because they speak to a level of understanding beyond the rational.  I got to the story of the Ugly Duckling, and found myself in tears:  that was me as a child, and, although I'm well into swanhood now, I'd never overcome the feeling that there was something profoundly wrong with me because I wasn't the cute, cuddly little girl everyone said I &quot;should&quot; be.  Estes' advice to the former Ugly Ducklings of this world was right on, too:  don't get hung up in being a &quot;survivor&quot;;  pay tribute to the pain and the strength of the child you were, then leave it behind you.<BR> This isn't as &quot;scholarly&quot; a work as some critics would like, but I don't think that's the point.  Reading it is like spending time with a wise grandmother who tells you all the old tales and advises you based on what she's learned from life.  In rational terms, much of what she says may make no sense -- but the stories themselves, her wisdom, and the love and acceptance she radiates, are all powerful teachers.<BR> This is a book about changing from within, not abandoning your responsibilities to, literally, go off and run with the wolves.  Through reading these stories, you'll REclaim parts of yourself that you thought you'd lost forever.	1998-02-04
US	52818926	R10TXJ78UXKU8H	0446392243	383242082	Guilt is the Teacher, Love is the Lesson	Books	4	61	61	N	N	Balanced and very helpful	Joan Borysenko is often dismissed as a New Age airhead, and her recent books are mostly a rehash of her earlier ones.  But I think this is her strongest book, for several reasons.  Guilt is a powerful component in many people's psychological makeup (especially women's).  While pop psychologists tend to dismiss guilt as simply an unhealthy vestige of an overly strict religious upbringing, this does justice to neither the force of the emotion nor its positive components, compassion and responsibility.  Borysenko avoids oversimplifying these issues, distinguishes the healthy from the unproductive aspects of guilt (her discussion of &quot;New Age Guilt&quot; is worth the price of the book), and offers positive guidance on how to learn the lessons guilt can teach us.  A major contribution to Western philosophy it's not, but I found this book the most balanced, sane, and practical discussion of guilt that I've ever read.	1998-02-03
US	52818926	RPK12Z6MHQF7C	0679776397	598725160	The Spell of the Sensuous: Perception and Language in a More-Than-Human World	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A compelling, important book, despite its flaws	One day I spotted a bird at my feeder that I didn't recognize.  I got out my field guide, identified the bird, mentally patted myself on the back, then looked out at him again.  He was a perky handful of mottled brown fluff, with delicate feet and shiny black eyes -- and it suddenly struck me that whatever name I applied to him was utterly irrelevant to the living reality of the bird himself.<BR> Another pertinent story:  I live in high desert country, where a fragile ecosystem has evolved over millennia, perfectly adapted to the region's harsh soil and scarce water.  In recent years, a number of people have bought plots of land near my house and put mobile homes on them.  They've then scraped every hint of vegetation off the lot.  The ambitious ones do things with gravel and railroad ties and bags of fertilizer.  But most just leave the soil bare, as if possession is exemplified by their victory over &quot;weeds.&quot;<BR> So I read Abram's book with a shock of recognition.  His concepts aren't particularly original (I kept being reminded of the English Romantic poet Wordsworth), and he often takes for granted that his readers accept his assumptions.  I find it ironic, too, that such an eloquent and persuasive writer should devalue language.  While I think he takes that argument too far, he's absolutely right that by defining &quot;knowledge&quot; and &quot;civilization&quot; as &quot;distance from the non-human,&quot; we've lost a sense of our place in nature that is endangering our planet's health and our survival as a species.  It's unfortunate that the book is being marketed through New Age and ecological sources;  it deserves a much wider readership.	1998-02-03
US	52818926	R1C0CMFIZV3VKL	0061092886	842578132	The Fallen Man (Joe Leaphorn Novels)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Chee needs a vacation	In Sacred Clowns, the plot was rather lame but the writing was still vintage Hillerman.  In this novel, the plot is much better, but the adjective that came to my mind time and again was &quot;perfunctory&quot;:  from the completely interchangeable rock climbers in the prologue, to Jim Chee's love troubles with the latest culturally incorrect girlfriend.  A disappointment overall;  Hillerman is capable of much better, but his last few novels have been well below standard.	1998-02-02
