US	52811948	R3BQ2O8NWOF79K	1400053609	457126022	Fortissimo: Backstage at the Opera with Sacred Monsters and Young Singers	Books	4	15	15	N	N	A Thoughtful and Enjoyable Look Backstage at the Opera	For the operaholics among us (I am one) \\"Fortissimo\\" is an entertaining and interesting look at what goes on backstage at the opera. Author Murray was given unprecedented access to Lyric Opera of Chicago's Opera Center for American Artists during the 2003-2004 season. This is Lyric Opera's training ground for young artists. Murray follows this group of twelve singers through coaching sessions, rehearsals, auditions and performances to give the reader a close-hand look at the rigorous intensity of this most glorious art form. Interspersed with this are chapthers which fill out the picture of what it takes to succeed in opera. There is a chapter devoted to the comprimario - singers who specialize in secondary characters. Another chapter is devoted to Pavarotti, a warning of what can happen when one achieves what Murray dubs 'sacred monster' status. A sacred monster, superstar, Pavarotti was undone at the end of his career by his enormous ego. This book is a wonderful gift for those opera lovers on your Christmas list this season.	2005-10-14
US	52811948	R20F584BO5GNDS	0486419223	740804653	The Aspern Papers (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Superbly Written and Psychologically Astute	This story of an unnamed narrator ingratiating himself into the household of a elderly lady, once the mistress of a famous poet with whom the narrator is obsessed, and her middle-aged niece, in order to obtain papers written by the poet is superbly written and psychologically astute. As often is the case with the works of Henry James it is an exegesis on how people use other people. Often times it isn't exactly clear who is using whom more. The Aspern Papers is an excellent introduction to Henry James for those first approaching The Master's work. It is a novella, approximately 100 pages in length. The writing style is elegant and clear, unlike his style in later works like \\"The Wings of the Dove\\" and \\"The Golden Bowl\\" which tend to be convoluted and vague.	2005-10-08
US	52811948	R1NVFTM77YSIDT	1594200580	838943619	The City of Falling Angels	Books	5	9	12	N	Y	For Those Who Already Adore Venice	John Berendt brings us a brilliant evocation of Venice in his new book \\"City of Angels\\". Through it's feuds, intrigues, machinations, crimes and loves the soul of this most magical and mysterious city is revealed. Bracketed by the fascinating story of the fire which destroyed Venice's great opera house, La Fenice, and the resulting investigation, criminal trials and rebuilding, the author gives us individual chapters about the high born and low born of The Most Serene Republic. We are introduced to native Venetians and expatriates alike - a rat poison mogual, a suicidal poet, Ezra Pound and his mistress Olga Rudge, the Curtis family owner's of the magnificient Palazzo Barbaro upon which Henry James based his materpice, \\"The Wings of the Dove. Through this pointillistic montage Venice is laid bare to the reader's eyes. Definitely for those who are already enchanted by Venice. However, I am not sure if the crime drama behind the burning of La Fenice will be enough to hold those not familiar with Venice.	2005-10-05
US	52811948	RCLCTZM03062T	0743237544	978951898	Chasing Matisse: A Year in France Living My Dream	Books	5	26	27	N	N	A Thoughtful Meditation on Travel, Art and Life	The author, a writer and artist, is fascinated by the work of Matisse. He and his wife, also a writer, sell their house, leave their desk jobs and go off to France to follow in the footsteps of Matisse. The author chronicles their travels to the places that inspired Matisse - Paris, Collioure in the Pyrenees, Corsica, Belle-Ile off the coast of Britany and the South of  France.  <br /> <br />In these places the author learns not just to look but also to see. The facts of Matisse's life and his development as an artist are interwoven with the travel adventures of the author and his wife as they live their dream of starting over in a foreign country. A look into the soul of an artist and what we can learn from him if we seek to live the creative life, this book is vastly superior to the shallowness of \\"C'est La Vie\\" by Susie Gershman and her vacuous tale of leaving the US to live in Paris. <br /> <br />The only thing missing from \\"Chasing Matisse\\" is a map so that the reader can see the locations of the various places that are visited. It's also helpful to have on hand a copy of \\"Henri Matisse: A Retrospective\\", Museum of Modern Art 1992, while you read so that you can see the paintings that the author mentions extensively in the book.	2005-10-02
US	52811948	R2MWGSS80OJBRQ	1933372001	850033295	The Days of Abandonment	Books	4	38	44	N	N	A Brutal Yet Compelling Novel About The Pain of Divorce	In brilliant prose that is sometimes lyrical and sometimes brutal,this Italian novel puts us inside the mind of 38 year old Olga, mother of two young children, after she is abandoned by her husband for a younger woman. Olga is bereft. Her sense of self collapses and we watch as she descends into a kind of madness, haunted by the specter of the 'poverella', a woman abandoned by her husband who lived in Olga's building during Olga's childhood. However, what I found flawed about this beautifully written book is twofold. First, we are never shown how she emerges from her meltdown. It just seems to happen. Secondly, the ending is a cop out. Olga conveniently and quickly finds another man to take the place of the one who has left her. So in the end what has she really learned about herself as a human being, one not part of a couple? The message seems to be that a woman needs a man in her life in order to survive. For those readers who are animal lovers, be aware that there is a disturbing scene in the novel involving the death of the family's pet dog.	2005-09-29
US	52811948	RUZK99HDWMDOP	0805440453	137952291	The ACLU vs. America: Exposing the Agenda to Redefine Moral Values	Books	5	156	207	N	N	Bravo! The ACLU  Finally Unmasked	Finally a book to unmask the true agenda of the ACLU to undermine not only the US Constitution, but the American way of life. The authors, attorneys for the Alliance Defense Fund, created to counteract the power of the ACLU in the legal arena, sets out how the ACLA seeks to turn the US Constitution on its  head, robbing parents of parental authority, destroying the concept of marriage, wiping out Christmas, denying freedom of speech to Christians. Numerous Supreme Court cases are cited and explained in this excellent book. Two chapters I found of particular interest, one showing the philosophical underpinnings of the organization when it was first formed (no they are not a benign organization that somehow went wrong), and the second demonstrating the ACLU's push to make the international law of it's choosing supercede the US. Constitution in terms of legal precedent. While the ADF is a Christan organization and I am not a Christian, as an attorney I applaud it's efforts in the legal arena to adhere to the principles of our Founding Fathers. It is clear that God was uppermost in the minds of our Founding Fathers. (God is mentioned numerous times in the Declaration of Independence much to the chagrin of the ACLU). It is time that the politically correct thought police of the ACLU be stopped and it's radical agenda for America be revealed. We don't want a society where a postal worker need be fearful if he 'slips up' and says \\"Merry Christmas\\" when a customer arrives in December to mail her Christmas cards. In the world of the ACLU he would be summarily sent for thought re-training, that \\"Merry Christmas\\" a sure sign of his bigotted mind set. This should be on the required reading list in all college political science and law school Constitutional law courses	2005-09-21
US	52811948	R2IHBOX2RGWT2O	0670032697	730701037	C'est la Vie: An American Conquers the City of Light, Begins a New Life, and Becomes--Zut Alors!--Almost French	Books	1	20	27	N	Y	Embarrassing In It's Shallowness	Six weeks after her husband kicks the bucket, the widow Gershman decides to live her dream - moving to Paris. The book touches not at all the emotional elements of finding oneself a widow at 53. Instead the almost 300 embarrassing pages of this book tells us where to shop, shop and shop and eat, eat and eat. In all her time in Paris Ms. Gershman never mentions doing one cultural activity. She never visits a museum, goes to the ballet or the opera. All difficulties of life in Paris such as dealing with furniture deliveries, purchasing fax machines etc. are smoothed over by her group of elite and tony friends. Her social life is busy given the number of chefs, journalists and hoteliers she knows. Finally with pride Ms. Gershman tells us of her love affair with a married count. Apparently she feels no shame in telling us about her relationship with another woman's husband. It's just the thing to do in gay Paree. We learn nothing of interest in this book other than if one is shallow in Texas (her home state) one is equally vacuous and shallow in Connecticut and Paris. Save your money and read one of Peter Mayle's books instead.	2005-09-14
US	52811948	R3NJHOQZK3Q55A	0375504257	482984817	Leave Me Alone, I'm Reading: Finding and Losing Myself in Books	Books	4	14	22	N	N	More Literary Analysis Then Personal Memoir	I'm not quite in agreement with the other reviewer of this book. It has it's clever and moving moments, but it is more literary exegesis than personal memoir. Corrigan focuses on what she calls extreme female adventure stories. These are novels like Jane Eyre and Villette in which the central female characters go through a series of interior adventures of the soul. She also tells us of subsets of this genre such as the female detective genre where she spends time on Dorothy Sayers, \\"Gaudy Night\\". The final genre is female Catholic martyrolgy fiction. Here she spends 14 long pages discussing the \\"Karen\\" books written in the 1940's. In them Karen's mother tells her tale of woe battling her daughter's cerebral palsy. This is a book dear to Ms. Corrigan educated in a Catholic paraochial school in New York City in the sixties and required reading for good Catholic girls.  Ms. Corrigan shows us how these novels are tied in to her life as a professor of literature and book reviewer for NPR. She sees her battle with infertility, miscarriage and adoption of a Chinese daughter as a form of extreme female adventure story. There are some light moments. But to me this is less a personal memoir of her reading life than a chance to put forth her literary analyses.	2005-09-12
US	52811948	ROZN2O170EGMI	0802117937	852085608	By the Grand Canal: A Novel	Books	2	3	3	N	N	An Atmospheric But Slow Moving Novel Set in Venice	The scene is Venice, 1919 at the end of World War I. English diplomat and man about town, Hugh Thurne arrives in Venice to contemplate his dying marriage and his future. There he socializes with old friends Giacomo and Valentina Venier and their two teenage children. Giacomo, whose roots in Venice go back centuries is dying. His finances are in decline and he is struggling to maintain his parental palazzo. Into this mix comes the beautiful Violet Mancroft, recently widowed when her husband was killed in the war, and her teenage son. Her deceased husband, Phillip was a close friend of both Hugh and Giacomo who are both godfathers to her son  Robert. These friends have invited Violet to  Venice to console and help her. Nothing much happens in the novel other then lunches, dinners and gondola rides. The author leads us to believe that a romance may develop between Hugh and Violet, but nothing happens. The most that happens in this novel is a nascent romance between Robert and Giacomo's daughter. The characters do a lot of reflecting upon their lives. If plot is important to you don't bother with this book. The pace is languid. But if you are a lover of Venice the atmospheric elements of the novel may appeal to you. Otherwise this book is much ado about absolutely nothing.	2005-09-07
US	52811948	R3P1RBQ2VJAQBK	0871138905	562386813	Mozart in the Jungle: Sex, Drugs, and Classical Music	Books	2	25	41	N	N	It's About Integrity, Blair!	Reading this book to the end was akin to being drawn to looking at the site of an auto accident; you don't want to look but you can't help yourself. Oboist Blair Tindall portrays the world of classical music in New York as a cross between a hippie commune and a job on the assembly line. Tindall never stops whining about the horrors of being a classical musician as she drinks, snorts, smokes and screws her way through 305 pages. In the end it's about integrity, which Blair has little of. It doesn't matter what industry or profession one is in, abuses abound everywhere. It 'ain't' only in the classical music world that women lacking integrity sleep their way into better jobs by having affairs with married men, teachers and colleagues. Learn the meaning of personal integrity Blair before you cruxify the world of classical music. Creating beautiful music every night isn't the same as working on an assembly line, although Blair believes this is the case. If the author sees so many problems in the industry how about giving your readers some possible solutions instead of your continual 'kvetching'. This reader doesn't care if you wear a size zero mini-skirt.	2005-08-31
US	52811948	R3R1HRYYS7CTYW	080507886X	496766923	Alibi: A Novel	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Post-War Venice and Moral Dilemmas	Venice 1946. Adam Miller upon finishing his time in the military as a  Nazi war criminal investigator goes to Venice where his mother is living as part of the well to do expatriate community. There Adam meets Claudia a mysterious and beautiful Italian Jewish woman who has survived the camps. He also learns his mother has become engaged to Gianni, a respected Venetian doctor from a highly regarded Venetian family. Adam believes Gianni is a fortune hunter. Claudia believes he is a war criminal responsible for the death of her father. Is one or both of them correct? After Gianni is murdered moral questions lead the reader through the wartime labyrinth of deceit and betrayal behind the beautiful facades of Venice. The first half of the novel is taut and compelling. Venice immediately following the war is a fascinating setting. But after the murder takes place the novel stalls and disintegrates into a muddle quite difficult to follow.	2005-08-28
US	52811948	R1DZTUXAT7UGL2	0878058370	524419563	The Light in the Piazza and Other Italian Tales (Banner Books)	Books	1	8	25	N	N	Italy Rendered Dull	Apparently highly regarded as a writer, Elizabeth Spencer's \\"The Light in the Piazza and Other Italian Tales\\" left me cold. The title story, recently made into a Tony Award winning musical is the tale of an American woman and her daughter vacationing in Italy. There, daughter Clara meets and falls in love with local Florentine, Fabrizio. However, what the besotted Fabrizio doesn't know is that the beautiful Clara is mentally challenged, having suffered a childhood injury to the head. Should mom reveal her daughter's handicap to Fabrizio and his family? This is the question around which the novella revolves. I won't reveal the ending. However, what could have been a poignant tale of maternal love and responsibility becomes a comedy of manners examining the national differences between Americans and Italians. To me the portrayals of both groups were stereotypical. This story was the best of the lot. The others were boring beyond words. In fact I did something I rarely do. I put the book down three quarters of the way through. A waste of reading time. I plan on avoiding the musical.	2005-07-31
US	52811948	R1OVCRA281CD8X	0312352050	832687499	Inside the Mind of Scott Peterson	Books	2	241	285	N	N	Interesting Speculation With an Erroneous Conclusion	Why would a man who is seemingly normal, and has never been in any trouble, kill his very pregnant wife and dump her body in the bay? The Scott Peterson trial leaves this question unanswered. Dr. Ablow's book is an attempt to answer it. Ablow, a forensic psychiatrist, presents the thesis that the roots of Peterson's sociopathy lies in the murder of his maternal grandfather sixty years ago. Unable to care for her children, grandmother Peterson placed her four children, including Scott's mother Jackie, then two years old in a Catholic orphange to be raised by nuns and priests who routinely physically and sexually abused them. After leaving the orphanage around the age of 18, Scott's mother had three children out of wedlock with different men who left her. Two of these she placed for adoption. A third she reluctantly raised and then sent away when he began being troublesome. Then along came Lee Peterson who married her and the birth of Scott her \\"Golden Boy\\".    Raised by a mother who seemingly had not much feeling about the three children she sent away, and a father who left his own children by a previous marriage, Scott developed into a sociopathic monster - hollow at his core. He was incapable of feelings and could only imitate real feelings, which was the reason he appeared emotionally wooden in his behavior after Laci's disappearance. In addition, Ablow argues, Scott was damaged by his separation from his parents when he contracted pneumonia shortly after birth and had to remain in the hospital in an oxygen tent for several weeks. Jackie demanded perfection in her growing boy, thus to survive he had to approximate perfection, deadening himself to who he really was. Ablow argues the closest Scott came to feeling alive was during sex, resulting in his numerous infidelties after marrying Laci. Laci is presented by Ablow as being emotionally shallow, someone who always wanted everything to be 'pretty'. As a result she and  Scott were lacking in even the spark of any real emotional connectedness.    Then came Amber Frey, who Ablow maintains provided such a spark in the deadened soul of Scott, resulting in what he calls 'a perfect storm' inside him that caused him to kill his pregnant wife. There were very suble hints to others that Scott was unhappy about his impending fatherhood. It took Laci a long time to become pregnant and he indicated he would have preferred her infertility. As a man incapable of feelings, he was unable to feel anything for his soon to be born son. To  Scott, Ablow argues, birth equals death. Jackie 'killed' her three previous children by giving them away. She 'killed' Scott by putting him in the 'Golden Boy' straight jacket'.    I agree with Dr. Ablow that Scott was dead inside, although I'm not sure the blame can be placed do neatly on Jackie Peterson. Many people have significantly worse childhood's then Scott and don't become killers. Nor is the hospital separation a cause. Many premature and ill babies remain in hospitals and don't grow into killers. What Dr. Ablow ignores is what is ineffable in the souls of human beings like Scott Peterson - that 'something' that we call evil. In Ablow's world no one is born evil and we must understand these damaged souls. He tells us if he had been called in to testify he would have labeled Scott clearly 'insane' at the time of the murder.     But where I really disagree with Dr. Ablow is that Scott killed Laci and Connor because of the spark of life Amber ignited in him. It is difficult for me to believe that a man as deadened to feeling as Scott would kill his wife and unborn child only to replace them with a relationship with another woman and her child by another man. No, Scott was too selfish for that. My instinct tells me that Scott was a selfish man who wanted to be free of all encumbrances. He wanted to be free to continue his many infidelities. The birth and financial responsibilities for a wife and child would severely limit such freedom in the future. What Amber was, was a reminder of that freedom - a freedom to flirt, have sex and 'feel' the false \\"high\\" of incipient romance. But Amber would have eventually been dumped by  Scott (or worse) when the noose of responsibility began to tighten around his neck. It was the confluence of his meeting Amber with it's attendant reminder of what freedom tasted like, with the tightening noose of fatherhood that caused the selfish and emotionally dead Scott to commit his crime. Ultimately Scott's single minded desire for freedom resulted in the ultimate loss of that freedom forever.	2005-07-30
US	52811948	RUY1NG2PTKJY9	0871138875	299455153	Blood from a Stone: A Commissario Guido Brunetti Mystery	Books	3	27	44	N	Y	A Brunetti  Mystery Politically Marred	As a longtime fan of Donna Leon I look forward to the publication of each new Commissario Brunetti mystery. However, my enthusiasm is waning of late.  This time Brunetti is involved in finding the killer of an African peddlar - one of an onslaught of illegal immigrants to Italy.  Brunetti is warned off of actually solving the crime, the despicable Vice - Questore Patta, telling Brunetti the higher ups in the  Departments of Interior and the Foreign Ministry want it so. I won't give away the ending; suffice it to say it has political overtones and involves the war on terror. <br /> <br />What is beginning to turn me off about the Brunetti mysteries is Leon's insistence on subjecting her readers to her ultra-leftist diatribes which she is increasingly putting into Brunetti's wife Paola's mouth. (This trend began with  Doctored Evidence her last novel). We are treated to a lecture on the evils of giving a bouquet of tulips as a gift because of the wasted energy used to grow and ship something that will wind up in a garbage can in two days. We are told that a man who wakes to find two drug addicts robbing his home and shoots them dead, is evil and should be the one prosecuted. The drug addicts are described repeatedly as 'poor devils'. After all the man who shot them had insurance and would be reimbursed. I suppose Leon thinks he should have known they meant no harm to him and his familybefore he shoots. (Perhaps he should have stopped for a chat with them upon finding them in his living room). Paola is appalled that the Italian government sends a large contingent of men to capture a terrorist cell. Apparently she thinks one police officer would be sufficient to do the job. Clearly Ms. Leon doesn't take the war on terror very seriously. She also believes Americans call everyone \\"Islamic Fundamentalists\\" even if someone double parks. Finally we are assured it's only leftist types who display any interest in the dead peddlar who is the center of this mystery. In Leon's black and white world only leftist's can feel compassion for a dead man. Supporters of the current Italian government are heartless and uncaring. <br /> <br />Enough already, Ms. Leon. Please keep your leftist opinions to yourself and give us back the wonderfully plotted and atmospheric novels set in the ephemeral La Serenissima. If I want to read political diatribes I can read Al Franken instead.	2005-07-30
US	52811948	RBW4D83697C6U	0743492609	277827243	The Painted Kiss: A Novel	Books	2	4	7	N	N	The Poorly Painted Kiss	Sorry to disagree with the others who have reviewed this book, but in my opinion the writing is pedestrian and the story dull. This is another entry in \\"The Girl with a Pearl Earring\\" genre. It's a fictionalized account of the relationship between fin-de-siecle artist Gustav Klimt and his longtime friend Emilie Floge. Not much is known about the nature of the relationship between Klimt and Floge thus making it ripe for a imaginative novelization. Yet the results here are as dull as dishwater. Floge ever in love with the womanizing Klimt keeps silent about her feelings and has sex with the great painter about once a decade. We follow their relationship from her girlhood (she meets him at age 12 here) through his death and WW2. The narrative voice of Floge at age 12 is the same as it is at age 30 making for less then compelling writing. The outburst of creativity during this period of Viennese history is never captured. This was the period of Mahler, Richard Strauss and Freud. All of this background is sadly neglected. This novel is fine as a beach read, but not much more.	2005-06-20
US	52811948	R3URYY9OP41FL7	0449909565	242627710	How to Get Your Dog to Do What You Want: A Loving Approach to Unleashing Your Dog's Astonishing Potential	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	Great Advice For Those of Us Owned By Dogs	Warren Eckstein brings the same caring and compassion for pets, sprinkled with some light-hearted humor to this book, that he does to his radio shows each week. This is a comprehensive and straight forwardingly written guide book for the care and training of dogs. Warren tells us that many of the problems that we encounter with our canine pets are the result of the dog simply being bored. Given the frenzied pace at which we live, our dogs are left alone for increasing periods of time. He gives us many suggestions for keeping our pets from being bored,going from the simple rotation of toys to the suggestion of an occasional canine playdate or party. He even suggests doggie makeovers and and how to give a doggie massage. I particularly liked his suggestion of using a shake can (an empty soda can filled with some coins and taped closed) as a training aid. When Fido goes yet once again to knock down the kitchen garbage pail, you have already balanced the shake can on top of it, and Fido gets a noisy surprise when the can hits the floor.	2005-05-23
US	52811948	R2IAUOZ1VWKB55	1580232000	86138649	The Way Into Jewish Mystical Tradition	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	A Brief Journey into the World of Kabbalah	The extraordinary Rabbi Kushner takes the novice on a journey into the world of Kabbalah, the Jewish mystical tradition. He does this by presenting the reader with 50 short chapters that contain text from the great works of Jewish mystical literature with commentary on them by Rabbi Kushner. Some of the things examined are the ineffable name of God, nothingness, the shattering of the holy vessels, the repair of the world, the sefirot the ten emanations of God, and Adam Qadmon the cosmic template of the primal and ultimate human form (not to be confused with Adam haRishon the first Adam of the Garden of Eden). Included is a glossary of Hebrew terms used, as well as a bibliography for those who want to learn more. I didn't find this book as inspirational as some of his others, but still it is a very worthwhile basic introduction to Kabbalah for the beginner.	2005-05-09
US	52811948	RP9EYHWGVVIKM	081269421X	466099850	The Mindful Traveler: A Guide to Journaling and Transformative Travel	Books	4	8	8	N	N	For Those Who Wish For a Deeper Travel Experience	Currie has developed a journaling technique that is sure to bring a deeper, richer and more insightful texture to one's travel experiences. Written as a journaling technique this book is useful even to those who don't keep a journal while traveling as it is full of thought-provoking questions. He advises us to think about our spiritual touchstones - those core beliefs that guide us through life experiences. He then tells us to consider our intentions and objectives in chosing a travel destination. With touchstones and objectives in mind we spend time each day writing about our travel experiences. How are they in keeping with those touchstones, intentions and objections, how are they not in keeping and why? In such self-evaluation, in looking at how we deal with the vagaries of travel we gain many insights into ourselves, and in the end this is why we travel. Currie suggests a debriefing period at the end of our trip - a time for reflection upon what we have learned about ourselves and how to apply it to our life at home. The book is written with a liberal dose of Buddhist philosophy, but is  worthwhile even for those who are not on the path of the dharma. In addition there are many practical tips for preparing for a trip as well as dealing with the ups and down of traveling.	2005-05-04
US	52811948	R23LCFDQVH2IHH	0385494149	801233492	Enduring Love: A Novel	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Enduring Obsession	Joe, a well-known science writer and his longtime companion Clarissa, professor and expert on Yeats are picnicing when they become participants in a freak hot air balloon accident. A young boy is in the uncontrolled balloon. Joe, and several spectators rush to help. The result is that a man falls to his death. This accident brings Joe into contact with Jed one of those who attempted to help. Their brief contact is the beginning of Jed's obsessional love for Joe. He telephones, writes and follows Joe expressing his unrequited love for this newly met stranger. One strange accident, one chance meeting will change the lives of Joe, Jed and Clarissa.<br /><br />Romantic, marital and obessive love is explored in this novel. It's a fascinating look at psychopathology. In addition there are similiarities with the more recent and deeper novel, \\"Saturday\\" just published by McEwan. Both Joe and Henry Perowne of \\"Saturday\\" have their lives altered by a momentary encounter. Both are men of science and rationality placed in relationships with women experts in the literary field. Henry's daughter is a poet forming a juxtaposition of thought and philosophy. While Enduring  Love is a psychological thriller, \\"Saturday\\" is that and more - a look at forgiveness in the post-911 world. Even if it is not a deeply introspective as \\"Saturday\\", \\"Enduring Love\\" is still beautifully written and well worth reading. There are phrases, descriptions in \\"Enduring Love\\" that are so perfect and true they will take your breath away.	2005-04-30
US	52811948	R273X3ZXZOE1LI	0385511809	740331338	Saturday: A novel	Books	4	2	4	N	Y	A Metaphor of Forgiveness in a Post-911 World	Unable to sleep, Henry Perowne, esteemed neurosurgeon, loving father and husband, materially successful, stands at the window of his grand London house and sees a plane on fire heading towards Heathrow. Is he watching another terrorist attack in progress? So have our thoughts been altered since September 11, and it is the events post-911 that hover in the background of this novel that follows the seemingly normal events of Henry's usual Saturday.  However, what occurs will be anything but normal. A fender bender occuring on the way to a squash game with a friend will have an extraordinary impact on Henry and his family. We watch Henry playing squash, shopping for groceries, attending a rehearsal of his blues-playing son, cooking dinner for a family reunion, as a large anti-Iraq war demonstration hovers in the background.  The silent television news seems to follow Henry wherever he goes, onimnous in it's ubiquitousness. Violence, death hovers over the day.  Henry's thoughts during this particular day run the gamut from music, art and literature, family matters, surgical observations of patients seen and to be seen in the coming week, and we are swept up in the details of his life.  The novel is masterfully written, at times powerful at others lyrical.  But in the end it is disappointing.  The denouement is improbable. Henry is too good, too unflawed to be the protagonist of a novel. Fascinating protagonists are made from ambiguity.I don't wish to give away the ending, but suffice it to say that at the moment of crisis, on the cusp of violence, Baxter, the savage beast is soothed by a poem; a synapse deep within his brain triggering some sort of momentary humanity in it.  The ending seems to me to be a metaphor for the blessings of forgiving those who harm us.  \\"There is grandeur in this view of life\\", the author tells us both at the beginning and ending of the novel.  I suppose this is the author's desire for the post-911 world.  Unfortunately it is a demonstrationof fuzzy headed and simplistic thinking.  The book could have used a bit more fleshing out as well as some cutting.  Henry's wife Rosalind is a bit of a cardboard figure.  Their love-making brackets the novel, an affirmation of life. A lengthly description of a squash game could have been pared down.  Still this is a book to savor, one that will linger in your mind after the book has been returned to the shelf.  Fuzzy headed or not I suppose this is the mark of a fine novel.	2005-04-24
US	52811948	R2M3IIUH51AT2V	1929154178	234166906	The Little Guide to Your Well-Read Life	Books	5	79	81	N	Y	How to Make Books a Part of Your Life	If you are a booklover or have a special booklover in your life, this is the book for you. It is a breezy and charming guide to making books a part of your life, and getting more out of the ones that you read. Included in the advice is how to create a \\"Book of Candidates\\" - a list of books you want to read and how to keep a Bookography - a list of books you have read which becomes a sort of diary of your reading life. Another suggestion is creating a shelf of books called \\"For When I Go There\\" - books about special places you want to visit, saved to be read when you are finally there. The atmosphere of reading a novel about Venice for example is greatly enhanced when reading it sipping a cappuccino at a cafe overlooking the Grand Canal. I know, I've done it, savoring both the book and the place.     Leveen also tells us how to get more out of the books we do read. He promotes engaged active reading by feeling free to write our thoughts and comments in the margins of books (he calls this being a a Footprint Leaver vs. being a Preservationist, a person who believes in leaving a book in a pristine condition). He advises not rushing to put a completed book back on our shelves the minute we have finished reading it. Instead he tells us to review it a day, a week, a month after reading it in order to aid in the retention of the book's contents. There is also advice on audio books and joining bookclubs. In the end he quotes Anatole Broyard, \\"A good book is never exhausted, it goes on whispering to you from the wall\\". This would make a perfect gift for a booklover you know.	2005-04-19
US	52811948	R3UU3IJZKV74RH	0787979155	854407480	We Jews: Who Are We and What Should We Do	Books	3	30	33	N	Y	I Was Hoping For More	Rabbi Steinsaltz's magnificent and brilliant book \\"The Thirteen Petalled Rose\\" is on my list of the ten most meaningful books I have ever read. So it was with great pleasure that I looked forward to reading his newest book, \\"We Jews\\". This book is far from the spirituality of \\"The Thirteen Petalled Rose\\". It seeks to answer practical Jewish questions such as 'do Jews have their own set of character traits', 'are we a nation or a religion' and 'are Jews excessively cold or excessively emotional'. Many of the answers to these questions seem to be generalizations that are incapable of proof, such as his belief that Jews inherently share character traits such as flexibility and adaptability, stubborness and persistence, individualism, intellectualism etc. His chapter on the Jews monistic perception of the world drawn from their monotheism and how it affected the work of Marx, Freud and Einstein is indeed fascinating. In the end Rabbi Steinsaltz pessimistically concludes that given the way Jews are living (i.e. the large degree of assimilation) will lead to their end as a people. He implies that perhaps there could be a slim hope for Jewish continuity in the building of 'a second center, comparable to, possibly better then the main center in Israel'. He never tells us the location of that center, but I assume it to be in America. He tells us Jewish continuity will require a lot of work, but never mentions with any specificity what that work looks like, and in the end that is the difficulty with this book. It is short on the details. Each chapter ends with questions by Arthur Kurzweil with whom Rabbi Steinsaltz worked on this book, followed by the rabbi's answers. In these sections too answers are never fully explored. The Q & A could have been fascinating. Having studied with Arthur Kurzweil I know he is a brilliant man, and the inclusion of more of his questions and their answers could have been a wonderful way to flesh out this book. Unfortunately this was not done, which leaves this reader feeling terribly short changed.	2005-04-08
US	52811948	R1DTNPQFSMQP67	0743266927	420656326	Tenor of Love: A Novel	Books	3	4	4	N	N	More  Soap Opera Then Opera	This novel is a fictionalized version of the love life of Enrico Caruso. It is a tale of three women - the two Giachetti sisters, Ada and Rina, and Caruso's wife Dorothy. The first half of the novel takes place in Italy and is told from the view point of Rina Giachetti whose older and married sister Ada carries on a tempestuous affair with Caruso for over a decade, bearing him two sons. Rina, the younger sister suffers unrequited love for Caruso all of her life. He manipulates and uses her love. Ada ultimately leaves Caruso for another man and he uses Rina to care for his two sons who Ada has abandoned for her lover. He leads Rina to believe he cares for her, but ultimately casts her aside when he marries Dorothy. The first half of the book portrays Caruso as manipulative, controlling, narcissistic and self-involved. The second half of the novel is told from the point of view of Dorothy, a shy and insecure young woman whom he meets in New York. Theirs seems a true and deep love unfortunately cut off after a mere three years of marriage by Caruso's premature death. <br /> <br />As an opera lover I was attracted to the story, but was ultimately disappointed. There is barely anything about opera in the novel other than naming an opera here and there in which Caruso appears. None of the passion and magic of this ecstatic art form was conveyed which makes me wonder how much the author really knows about opera. She never conveys what Caruso finds in opera and what draws audiences to it. Unfortunately the author's writing is terribly pedestrian and is peppered with ghastly similes and metaphors like these, \\" in the heavens the dying stars were moving ones, quickly burning out in a trail of incandescent dust, like moths immolated in their own light\\" or \\"the dusk was a poet coating the texture of things with layers of beautiful obscurity\\". Referring to a grandfather clock she writes, \\"it's sound was muffled compared to the tom-tom of my heart\\". The skyscrapers of New York look more like 'skewers than scrapers'. A jumble of voices is 'a mush of different languages'. You get the point. Literary writing is not the author's strong point. However, if you are looking for an operatic romance novel that is mildly entertaining this book is for you.	2005-04-01
US	52811948	R14DF4B5U5B5A0	0316735485	919631242	The Hamilton Case: A Novel	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Mesmerizing, Brutal, Exotic and Richly Imagined	The Hamilton Case is a mesmerizing, but brutal look at the decay at the heart of colonial Ceylon. It takes place from the turn of the century, through the independence of Ceylon in 1948 and is told through the story of Sam Obeysekere,an \\"upper class\\" native who can out British the British (he refers to his parents as Mater and Pater).  Sam, the son of two parents who spend their time squandering the family's inherited wealth as they live a frivolous life of partying and shopping, oblivious to the needs of Sam and his sister Claudia, who are primarily raised by servants.  Sam is educated in a British style public schoolon the island, and then sent to Oxford returning to the island as a barrister. There he quickly raises in stature in the legal professions. The rage engendered in him since childhood by his promiscuous and vacuous mother is lived out through the woman he marries for her money and then ignores, as well as his ultimate entombment of his now poverty stricken elderly mother in a decaying family home in the jungle. Infanticide, self-mutiliation, suicide, pedophilia and murder abounds as the author brilliantly brings to life the death and rot teeming in the depths of the jungle As the jungle is replete with rot so is the Ceylonese society where the racism of the British for the native population is mirrored in the racism of one native group for the other groups that make up the Ceylon's population. Bracketing the novel at the beginning and the end is the murder mystery of the Hamilton Case in which Sam plays Sherlock Holmes, ultimately resulting in his inability to rise to the highest ranks in the judiciary. Kretser's writing is brilliant, at times lyrical at times raw as it brings the island of Ceylon pulstatingly to life. The images she creates will live in the mind of the reader for a long time as will the complex characters she has created. It is pleasure to read such a brilliant piece of literary fiction. I look forward to her next novel.	2005-03-21
US	52811948	R2JW8E1BJJ14LA	0521595126	777401781	The Life of Schubert (Musical Lives)	Books	3	7	9	N	Y	An Excellent Introductory Biography of the Composer	This is an excellent and concise introductory biography of Schubert for the general reader. Gibbs debunks many of the Schubert myths that have arisen since his tragic early death, and explores Schubert's social mileu. Of primary importance in Schubert's life is his circle of male friends. In addition he tackles some of the recent research concerning the composer's possible homosexuality, and explores some of the rudimentary evidence that exists about Schubert's relationships with women. What is lacking in this book is more analysis of Schubert's oeuvre.	2005-03-16
US	52811948	RBADEGPFFV9OI	1841953229	506012232	Rembrandt's Whore: A Novel	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Deliberately Obtuse and  Essentially Dull	Told from the point of view of Hendrickje Stoffels, Rembrandt's mistress, paragraphs in dark and darker colors, like Rembrandt's own brush strokes paint a picture of mid 17th century Amsterdam and the second half of the life of Rembrandt. It's a time of plauge, war, floods, superstition and religious intolerance.  <br /> <br />Suffering after the deaths of his three small children and wife Saskia, Rembrandt finds solace in the arms of Hendrickje, a beautiful servant in his household, 23 years his junior. He never marries her (thus the name given to her by the towns people, \\"Rembrandt's whore\\") but clearly loves her, as he loves the child they have together as well as his beloved Titus, son of Saskia. <br /> <br />Written in a deliberately obtuse style with shifting points of view we are told of an endless succession of visitors to the Rembrandt household, as well as providing laborious information on his bankcruptcy and the loss of  his house, his paintings and other possessions. Interspersed with this are amorphous descriptions of his paintings that can only be deciphered by those completely familiar with the Rembrandt oeuvre. This book is essentially boring and confusing.	2005-03-11
US	52811948	R3BDIEHWABU8RB	0156278111	618928945	The Education of H*Y*M*A*N K*A*P*L*A*N	Books	5	50	50	N	N	Written Seventy Years Ago Hyman Kaplan Still Delights	Having just begun teaching English As A Second Language to a group of Asian adults, a relative thought I might enjoy \\"The Education of Hyman Kaplan\\". The novel takes place entirely at the American Night Preparatory School for Adults. There under the tutelage of Mr. Parkhill, Hyman Kaplan, Miss Mitnick, Miss Caravello, Mrs. Moskowitz and an assortment of Jewish and Italian immigrants struggle with the complexities of the English language, anxious to master the language and learn about the history and culture of their newly adopted home. The irrepressible Mr. Kaplan takes center stage in the classroom with his singular logic in using the English language. Abraham Lincoln becomes Abram Lincohen, King George III of England is an autocrap, and Valley Forge becomes Velly Fudges. Kaplan conjugates the tense  to die as \\"die, dead, funeral\\", and when talking of the contents of a newpaper he can't understand why he must say \\"it said\\", instead of \\"he said\\", since the paper is decidedly of the masculine gender. It's the Harold Tribune after all. This is a hilarious yet touching book. We are never laughing at Hyman Kaplan's linguistic foibles but with him, as we appreciate the struggles of all immigrants, those seventy years ago, or those today to come to terms with becoming Americans and learning the language that binds us together.	2005-03-08
US	52811948	R2OTTY2AXLQOI0	0066214416	402806121	The Schopenhauer Cure: A Novel	Books	4	13	15	N	Y	A Brilliant Idea , Not Satisfactorily Carried Out	As a Wagnerian and someone who has studied Buddhism extensively I was familiar with Schopenhauer's philosophy, so when I found this book I looked forward to reading it. I have enjoyed Dr. Yalom's other novels. Julius, an eminent psychotherapist discovers he has terminal cancer. Evaluating his life he wonders about the impact he has or has not had on the patients who have passed through his office. He particularly wonders what has happened to a patient by the name of Phillip Slate who suddenly left therapy with Julius after three years of treatment for sexual addiction. Phillip could not exist without several casual sexual encounters each day. He was a predator who used women and then threw them away. Julius decides to track down Phillip twenty years after he ended therapy. What he finds is a remote and isolated man who is a professor of philosophy at a local university. Phillip has become what he calls a philosophical therapist. He is now cured of his sexual addiction. He tells Julius he was cured by the philosophy of Arthur Schopenhauer, and has modeled his life upon Schopenhauer's. Schopenhauer was a morbid pessimist, a misanthrope, a misogynist. He never married and lived in self-imposed isolation. Phillip lives the same way. <br />Phillip is seeking to be licensed as a therapist and actually sees some patients. He asks Julius to be his supervising therapist. Julius is dismayed by the thought that this remote, isolated but brilliant man will attempt to help people with their interpersonal relationships. Thus as a condition of being his therapist he requires that Phillip join his group therapy sessions for a year in the hope that Phillip will learn to be more human. Phillip agrees to the plan. <br /> <br />Most of the book consists of accounts of the dynamics of the group therapy. Alternating with this are chapters about the life of Schopenhauer. Phillip undertakes to help the group members by teaching them about the great philosopher. Ultimately he is the one taught about loving and living.  Herein is the problem with the novel. The six people who make up the group in addition to Phillip never come alive for the reader. For me they are wooden -there solely so that Yalom can teach his reader about the techniques of group therapy. In intense sessions of confrontation between the group members they begin to undergo the process of understanding themselves and changing. Still the insights into their characters and problems are merely on the surface. We find out little about their lives outside the group. The only character who even remotely came alive for me was Julius. Still we are told nothing about his battle with cancer. We learn nothing about what the last year of his life is like outside of his group. Although this is a book that obstensibly is concerned with interpersonal relationships we see nothing of Julius' last year with his children and friends. This sole focus on the therapy group gives the novel a claustrophobic feel to it which begins to oppress the reader. The ending is glib and ultimately unsatisfying. We never learn what happens to most members of the group. How do they integrate what they have learned in their outside lives? <br /> <br />Still despite it failings kudos must go to Dr. Yalom who has undertaken to integrate the complex teachings of Schopenhauer into a novel. As an intellectual exercise the novel succeeds, as an emotional exercise I am not so sure. Despite whatever failings it may have it is definitely worthwhile reading for the serious reader.	2005-03-06
US	52811948	RGE73MNRFKHLW	1585675016	317802859	Hotel Bemelmans	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Poignant Tales of Grand Hotel Life - Moderately Entertaining	\\"In an old house in Paris that was covered with vines, lived twelve little girls in two straight lines...\\" Years and years after first hearing these lines from the first Bemelmans' Madeline book, and still knowing most of the lines in the book by heart, I was thrilled to find \\"Hotel Bemelmans\\" in the bookstore. Here, I thought, was the inimitable Bemelmans, but this time for adults. Unfortunately, I was rather disappointed. After coming to America from a boyhood spent in Germany under the tutelage of Uncle Hans in the art of hotel/restaurant management, Bemelmans finds himself working at the Hotel Splendide in New York one of the City's \\"grand hotels\\". He begins at the bottom and works himself up. The stories in this book are tales of the eccentric and lovable characters that he encounters while working at the Splendide. There is the irascible Herr Brauhaus, who constantly curses \\" Cheeses Greisd!\\" in a heavy German accent, and is in charge of running the hotel. There is also Monsieur Victor who runs the hotel restaurants and strikes fear into the hearts of his staff. In addition we find Professor Gorylescu, a magician who regularly entertains at hotel parties, as well as an assortment of guests whose eccentricities are revealed with delight. It is all a portrait of a time of elegance long gone, and of those who made a certain lifestyle possible. The stories are generally poignant, but if you are looking for a book to provide you with loud guffaws unfortunately this is not it.	2005-03-01
US	52811948	R2892KD7HTZDZT	1843910683	177431409	Lady Macbeth of Mtsensk (Hesperus Classics)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Long Neglected Masterpiece	Lady Macbeth of Mtsensk is the masterpiece of the now mostly forgotten Nikolai Leskov. This novella is a powerful story of obsession and violence, which shocked readers in it's day, and still has the power to shock today. Shostakovich chose the story for an opera because of it's dynamic storyline. The young and beautiful Katerina Lvovna has married a merchant twice her age, in order to rescue herself from poverty. Bored and stifled in the marriage she becomes enmeshed in a steamy affair with Sergei,a steward of her husband. Obsessed with the feckless steward, Katerina will stop at nothing to keep him. Her obsession leads to murder, and prison in Siberia where once again her obsession with Sergei leads to a desperate act. Frank in it's depiction of unbridled sexuality and violence, the novella is as fresh today as when it was written. This short book is definitely worth the time of any serious reader of literary fiction.	2005-01-21
US	52811948	R2J2MC51CORQWI	0316734500	36886929	The Bookseller of Kabul	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Fascinating But Flawed Book	Journalist Seierstad goes to Afghanistan in 2001 and meets Sultan Khan, an unusual man with a passion for preserving the literary heritage of his country in the face of Taliban oppression. Khan agrees to let Seierstad live with his family, and this book is a portrayal of the Khan family. It's a depressing story of violence, suffering and oppression, particularly the oppression of women. The oppression of women becomes the primary focus of Seierstad's story.And as she portrays women's place in Afghan society as chattel one is given the sense of her increasing anger at the Bookseller of Kabul who befriended her. Because she chooses to use a cinema verite form of story telling, Seierstad never makes an appearance in the book. The family members speak for themselves through what they must have told Seierstad or through what she personally observed. But because of this form of story telling there are many things we never learn. She never tells us much about the Afghani literature Khan tries so hard to preserve. I wanted to know more about it. I also wanted to know if Khan was familiar at all with any Western literature. We never find out what the members of the Khan family or their friends and neighbors think of the American ouster of the Taliban and the search for Osama Bin Laden. In fact, the United States is rarely mentioned in the book, curious given the state of current events in Afghanistan. Do the Khan women who open themselves up to Seierstad ask her any questions about life in the West? We never find out. The story is flawed by the technique she has chosen to use. Still it's a fascinating look at life in Afghanistan today.	2005-01-19
US	52811948	R1P83GTMLXFUE7	0895260425	746136200	Winning the Future: A 21st Century Contract with America	Books	5	72	113	N	Y	Sure to Make Liberals Foam at the Mouth	Newt has set the course for compassionate conservative policies in the 21st Century. Let's hope the White House follows them. In straightforward prose Newt tackles the issues of the day - Social Security, health care, the Separation of Church and State, technology and offers intelligent solutions to those problems. Of particular interest is his chapter on the role of the Federal Courts, and the interpretation of the Establishment Clause of the Constitution. Oust the judges on the out of step Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, he suggests, a la Jefferson. It's a bold idea, one sure to make Liberals foam at the mouth.	2005-01-19
US	52811948	R120E5WU04HE0T	1400095093	692361967	At the Villa of Reduced Circumstances	Books	3	12	17	N	N	Charming But A Bit Thin	Professor Dr. Moritz-Maria von Igelfeld is a member of the august Institute of Romance Philology in Germany. He is the author of \\"Portuguese Irregular Verbs\\" a seminal work, read by few. \\"At The Villa of Reduced Circumstances\\" is one in a series of three slim books that contain short stories following the quirky von Igelfeld and his colleagues at the Institute on a series of adventures. This book contains two such stories which take place on foreign shores. In one Dr. von Igelfeld goes to Cambridge on sabbatical and comes in contact with the eccentric habits of various English academics as well as their intrigues. In the other story for which this book is given it's name, he goes to Bogota to receive an honorary award given by the Columbian Academy of Letters. While there von Igelfeld hilariously becomes involved in a revolution, and finds himself briefly named as President of Columbia. Much of the humor in the two stories in this book derive from national differences between the English, Germans and Columbians. If you like understated humor of the Wodehouse variety you will enjoy this book. Otherwise you will find it a bit thin, particularly in the first story involving Cambridge in which nothing much happens.	2005-01-08
US	52811948	R2A4IGNEKD9J5	0670033561	359169189	Rumpole and the Penge Bungalow Murders	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Ah, The Joys of Rumpole	I can't think of anything better to do then to curl up in front of the fireplace on a cold winter's night, and read the latest Rumpole novel. Here Rumpole is back writing his memoirs about his first success at the Bar many years ago. Throughout this series of books Rumpole has dropped hints about the Penge Bungalow murder trial that he conducted in his youth, 'alone and without a leader'. In this newest Rumpole novel we get the details of this celebrated Rumpole case. We see Rumpole as a young man getting his feet wet in Chambers. We also meet the Head of Chambers, C.H. Wystan, father of She Who Must Be Obeyed, and learn how Rumpole won Hilda's hand in marriage. Periodically Rumpole is brought back to the present moment as various characters such as Dodo Mackintosh, Claude Erskine Brown, and Soapy Sam Ballard stop off and interrupt Rumpole in his writing.In fact Soapy Sam bans Rumpole from writing in chambers, until Sam is given a bigger part in the forthcoming book. <br /> <br />The mystery as to the identity of the Penge Bungalow killer is entertaining. But as in all the other books in the Rumpole series characterization and dialogue are king. <br /> <br />A sheer delight. John Mortimer, please keep the Rumpole stories coming.	2005-01-06
US	52811948	R12UQPQZPWZ4M	0316781487	223736820	Light on Snow	Books	1	5	8	N	N	The Result of Churning Out Novels Year After Year	Since the days of Eden Close, Anita Shreve seems to be spiraling downward in her writing ability. The only reason that I can imagine for this is her desire to churn out another novel each year. She is getting lazy in her writing style and it seems running out of ideas as well. <br /> <br />Light on Snow is the story of an New York architect who throws his professional life to the wind, after the death of his wife and infant daughter in an auto accident. He along with his 12 year old daughter Nicky leave suburban New York for a remote town in New Hampshire. Shreve hits us over the head with her symbolism. Nicky and her Dad bury themselve in a even remoter house in the remote town, and the action in the story takes place almost solely during a snowstorm. The state of the architect's spirit is thus wedded to the climatology of the novel. Just prior to the storm, father and daughter take a walk in the woods and there find new life - a newborn baby girl wrapped in a bloody sleeping bag and left to die in the cold and snow. Nicky and her Dad rescue the child, as the police search for the guilty parents. Voila, the baby's mother turns up at Nicky's house, and gets snowed in there.  <br /> <br />You would think that stuck there during the storm we would get some significant background information on the baby's mom, as well as Nicky and her Dad. But we don't. The reader is left with less then complete satisfaction. It's all pretty superficial stuff. In fact, Light on Snow would have been better served as a short story. To match the thin story, the writing is pretty pedestrian as well. <br /> <br />Since you now have fame and fortune, Ms. Shreve, stop rushing out novels each year. Take your time, and give your readers some of the literary richness of which you are capable.	2004-12-31
US	52811948	ROPZ92WKGG184	0316089699	279731145	Sea Glass: A Novel	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Not Sophisticated Writing, But a Worthwhile Story	Honora and Sexton purchase a ramshackle beach house on the coast of New Hampshire in 1929, setting the stage for their financial ruin. Their lives become entwined with others involved in a strike at a textile mill in a nearby town. This is simple, not sophisticated writing, but the story will hold your attention. It's a story suitable as a beach or plane read. I give it 3 stars because if you are unfamiliar with what life was like during the Great Depression, this novel will provide you with some inkling of it's hardships.	2004-12-27
US	52811948	R1KC40PR7RCT26	0316168688	744408823	The Dogs of Babel	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Creepy Yet Compelling	Paul, a linguistics professor returns home one day to discover that his young, talented and beautiful wife Lexy, has either fallen out of or jumped from the top of a giant apple tree in their backyard, and is dead. The only witness to the event is Lexy's beloved dog Lorelei.  All consumed with grief in the weeks and months after Lexy's death, Paul takes a leave of absence from the university in order to solve the mystery of Lexy's death. Was it an accident? Or was it a suicide?  Obsessed with unlocking the key to the mystery, Paul engages in research into teaching a dog to talk, in the hope that Lorelei will tell him what he wants to know. As he goes about this he encounters a cult of sadists who mutilate dogs in an attempt to teach them to talk. This is the creepy part of the novel. But in my opinion this is a distraction in the novel, not essential to the plot and put in for it's lurid effect.  The more compelling part of the story is watching Paul search his mind for clues to what happened in the story of the history of his marriage to Lexy. What emerges is the portrait of a disturbed young woman, who is by turns depressed, angry, selfish and suicidal.  We wonder why Paul can't see this at the outseft of the marriage. Yet as we know, 'love is blind'. What remains is an idealized view of a woman so adored by her husband that he is blind to what is quite plainly in front of his face. She needs professional help, yet not until the end of the story does he suggest it. The book is heavily ladened with symbolism. At Paul's first meeting with Lexy at a yard sale held at her home, he purchases a gizmo for making square hard boiled eggs, a clumsy hint that in their married life he will at times force her into being something she is not. Lexy earns her living as a masker maker, the author telling us that most of us never truly reveal ourselves to others. The symbolism becomes a bit heavy handed. Other creepiness appears when Lexy takes up making death masks for a living, or when Paul consults a telephone psychic. Although the portrait of a loving husband consumed by grief is well handled, beautifully written and compelling, the novel is essentially dishonest. For at the end the reader finds out what Paul has really known all along yet concealed from the reader. I as a reader recoil from such authorial tricks. Yet, it is clear that Parkhurst is a talented writer and this is her first novel.  It will be interesting to read her next novel which will hopefully be more subtle and not dependent on contrivances.	2004-12-18
US	52811948	R2ZFIY1KVJK51Z	0812217926	510873499	Sanctuary (Pine Street Books)	Books	4	17	20	N	N	Are Flaws in Morality Passed From Father to Son By Nature?	In Part One, Kate Orme discovers shortly before her marriage to Denis, that her fiance has covered up the fact that his dissolute brother was secretly married to a lower class woman, and had a child with her. By this deception Denis prevents the woman from inheriting her husband's estate, and is able to hold on to his own inheritance, resulting in the suicide of the woman and child. Kate is repelled by her finance's deception, but marries Denis anyway. In Part Two of the novel, many years have passed. Denis has died at a young age, leaving Kate alone to raise their son, Dick who is now an adult. When Dick is confronted with a moral dilemma in his professional life, Kate waits to see whether the father's 'moral' flaw has been passed to her son, or if her nurture of her son has been strong enough to cure it. The novel is beautifully written and exquisitely nuanced, yet the difficulty for the modern reader is how to react to the story in our own modern age of moral equivalency. A modern reader may view Kate's extreme reaction to the moral dilemma provided to her son to be overblown.	2004-10-20
US	52811948	RM0OSB4G7QQQF	0684825317	870864009	The Mother's Recompense	Books	5	15	17	N	N	A Mother's Dilemma	Written in 1925, this less well-known novel by Edith Wharton examines a mother's dilemma. Kate Clephane, the heroine of this novel, deserted her wealthy husband and young daughter twenty years before, when she fled the social constraints of her proper home in New York, at the turn of the century. After the end of that affair she seeks to be reunited with her child, but is denied this by her husband and mother in law. Ostracized by friends and family, Kate leads a life of love affairs and social gatherings amid the frivolous expatriate community on the Riviera. One day she receives a telegram from her now grown daughter. Kate's mother-in-law has died and the girl summons her to return to New York in an attempt to rekindle their relationship. Things go well for a while, until Kate discovers that her daughter is planning on marrying Chris one of Kate's near do well former lovers. Kate is repelled by the thought. She wrestles with what she should do. Should she tell her daughter of her former relationship with Chris, putting her relationship with her daughter in jeopardy? Should she attempt to break up the relationship to save her daughter from marrying a man whose character indicates he was not meant to marry? Or should she keep silent and not break her daughter's heart. The reader struggles with Kate over which is the correct decision, as well as what motivates Kate's behavior. Does she want to end the relationship between her daughter and Chris out of jealousy, or perhaps selfishness? I won't reveal her choice. But in the end she forgoes her own happiness in rejecting the hand of a suitor. Why? This is for the reader to decide. There are similaries in plot and style with Henry James' Washington Square, where a father intrudes into the relationship of his shy daughter with a potentially disastrous suitor.	2004-10-19
US	52811948	R35VDABW2F7MS2	1593371543	499844839	Single: The Art of Being Satisfied, Fulfilled and Independent	Books	2	14	33	N	N	Being Single Isn't Fatal	Judy Ford reminds us that being single doesn't mean you are a loser, that it's not a fatal condition, that loneliness isn't tragic or bad, and that going to dinner alone means you are hungry not that you're a reject. Dozens of platitudes form the essence of this book. Platitudes aren't bad things. Perhaps on a bad night when your bed is big and lonely, they will help you get through the night.	2004-09-28
US	52811948	RK5A7Z7OE3DIZ	0767913809	695997885	Who's Looking Out for You?	Books	3	24	39	N	N	Unabashedly In Your Face	If you are a regular viewer of The Factor, or listen to Bill's radio show, you will already have encountered the views he expresses here on the separation of Church and State, the evils of rap music, the high out of wedlock birth rate in the minority community. As usual Bill says it like it is with no sugar coating of the truth. There are some interesting points here, especially about the Founding Fathers' view of the proper place of religion in the newly founded republic. He also gives practical advise on looking out for yourself, and he doesn't mean by this shafting others. The parts I found most enjoyable in the book were when he talks about himself, his upbringing and career moves. O'Reilly fans (I'm one of those)will love this book, while spin meisters from the far left and far right will have a surge in blood pressure. If you are one of those keep your medication handy. An enjoyable and educational read.	2004-09-27
US	52811948	R1MFEB6K76C19B	1586420305	869463486	Venice Revealed: An Intimate Portrait	Books	1	2	4	N	Y	A Rambling and Essentially Dull Look at Venice	Having visited Venice many times, and being a lover of the City I was most disappointed after reading this book. Born and raised in Venice, the author returns to live there once again, after being absent for many years. The book contains his desultory ruminations on Venice as he wanders it's labyrinth streets. This is not Venice from the perspective of culture or history. It is a native's view of La Serenissima and how time and tourism has changed it. I found the writing amorphous and not terribly interesting. It's difficult to make this City of paradoxes dull, but the author has succeeded in doing so.	2004-08-28
US	52811948	RTJ4UMBF1XV2O	0743464826	827645186	Chasing Shakespeares: A Novel	Books	2	5	11	N	N	A Boring Bard Mystery	Joe, a hick blue collar Vermont graduate student at Northwestern University and his sidekick Posy, a rich Valley Girl, Harvard grad student who peppers her speech with 'like', and 'duh' and wields a Hello Kitty pen, are the protagonists of this boring Bard mystery. While working as a research assistant to an expert on Shakespeare, Joe comes across a letter obstensibly proving that Shakespeare did not write the plays. Joe and Posy set off for London to prove the letter is not a forgery. The problem with the novel is that unless you have a graduate degree in Shakespearean studies and are quite conversant with Elizabethan history and the whole authorship question, it is impossible to follow this book, most of which consists of Joe sitting in the British Library or visiting obscure Elizabethan historical sites. This most assuredly does not make for an exciting read. In order to make this even remotely understandable to the average reader the book needs to include a geneology chart and a cast of historical characters. However, the author has not chosen to do so, but to send the reader instead to a website, [...] in order to find the material. Even with that material I found it exceedingly difficult to follow the plot. By the end I couldn't care less about who authored the Shakespeare plays. This novel is best saved for those with a graduate degree in Shakespearean studies. For others, there are a lot more interesting books out there to read. I can only compare this book to the Da Vinci Code, an art mystery which also presents complex historical and artistic material, but in a much more cogent and exciting way.	2004-08-15
US	52811948	R557KTC9PYU50	1893554864	829421208	The Rape of the Masters: How Political Correctness Sabotages Art	Books	5	162	180	N	Y	Scathing, Scary, But Hilarious	This is a brilliant and scathing look at how our post-modernist art historians are engaged in the de-civilization of Western art. Kimball skewers the current trend of viewing all Western art (as well as Western literature) solely through the prism of sex, gender, and class. What results is a ludicrous but scary disfigurement of Western art. <br />  <br /> Kimball takes seven well known paintings by seven different artists, and shows us the absurdity of those art elites in the academic world who are blinded by their politically correct madness. The chapter on John Singer Sargent's 1882 painting, &quot;The Daughters of Edward Darley Boit&quot; gave me belly laughs galore as leading Sargent expert Professor David M. Lubin of Wake University, subjects a painting of four upper crust little girls at the turn of the century into a critique of sexual oppression and perversion. Playing on the French version of Mr. Boit's name ( i.e. boite, meaning box) Professor Lubin contends 'the Female Child is enclosed within [an]ideological and biological box'. If this is not absurd enough, Kimball shows us how Lubin's reasoning in analyzing the painting in sexual/gender terms depends upon such things as the circumflexed 'i' in 'boite' (remember the Frenchified version of the girls' father's name) as a receptacle into which the 'i' phallus plunges. In addition the word 'boite' the good Professor tells us also means 'house of prostitution'. From this he concludes that the little girls represent the father's (remember Dad doesn't appear in Sargent's picture) harem. <br />  <br /> One could laugh one's head off if it wasn't so frightening to consider this is what young people are subjected to in universities across America. 'Bravo' to Roger Kimball for showing us the 'Theater of the Absurd' that goes on behind those ivy covered walls. My daughter is an art major. I'll be sure to remember Mr. Kimball's book next time her university telephones asking for a charitable donation.	2004-07-31
US	52811948	RID7TRNW763CR	0385721307	650667943	Quattrocento	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Imaginative, But a Bit Muddled	Matt is an assistant curator at New York's Metropolitan Museum of Art. He is also an art restorer and an expert on Renaissance art. One day while browsing through storage bins in the basement of the Met he finds a painting of a young woman. He is quite taken with the painting and after studying it, and after scientific testing, realizes it is an unknown work by Leonardo Da Vinci. Working day after day to restore the masterpiece he falls in love with the young woman in the painting who he names &quot;Anna&quot;. The new discovery is made public to the art world with much fanfare at a ceremony in the museum. Matt is now an art celebrity. Overwhelmed by this turn of events, Matt wants some moments of quiet and retires to another exhibit in the museum, the restoration of a Renaissance 'studiolo'. The money for that restoration has come from a mysterious man by the name of Klein, an expert on physics and other matters. Suddenly Matt finds himself propelled back to the Quattrocento, where he meets the beautiful Anna, and becomes involved in her life. Here things become muddled, as physics, art and the development of the well-tempered clavier become intertwined in the world of time travel. Matt unhappily finds himself returned to the modern world just as his relationship with the beautiful Anna begins to heat up. He seeks out the physicist Klein to see how he can return to the Quattrocento and his beloved Anna. But Klein has disappeared. No one has heard of him. Matt attempts to track him down in Istanbul, and Prague, and finds himself transported back to the 18th century and a performance of Mozart's Don Giovanni. Will he be able to find his way back to Anna in the Quattrocento? That is the question. If it all sounds a bit muddled and confusing it is. But it is still fun as the reader learns about art, music and physics along the way. What does not ring true for me is the underlying love story. There is not much development of the relationship between Matt and Anna. Whatdraws them together? To me Anna is aloof and arrogant. For three hundred pages I was hoping to find out about Da Vinci and the origin of the unknown painting of Anna, but this part of the story is dropped completely until the last line of the last page of the novel. Worth reading if you are a lover of Renaissance art.	2004-07-30
US	52811948	R30U3C17CWKVU9	0743250400	372341668	The Master	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Episodic Look at the Personal Relationships of Henry James	This is a look at Henry James' life and mind through the device of a novel. Beginning after the failure of his play Guy Domville in 1895 and ending in 1899, the author uses flashbacks and focuses his attention mainly on James' relationship with others. Not much time is spend in looking at his novels other then tangentially. A large focus seems to be James' unconsummated homosexual longings with a variety of men. He is fascinated with the Oscar Wilde trial, we get a description of a night spent sharing a bed with Oliver Wendell Homes, his interest in watching a cousin modeling in the nude for a class of art students,his infatuation with the sculptor Hendrik Andersen. We also learn of James' relationhip with women; his guilt over the suicide of his close friend Constance Fenimore Woolson, his ailing sister Alice and with Minny Temple a friend of his youth. Finally there are the relationships with his father, and his brother William, the latter being a difficult one of animosity, love and jealousy. In the end we are left with the thought that James was someone of great aloofness, who repeatedly pushed away anyone who got too close. Toibin captures the subtlety of James' observation. In small passages we watch as James observes an unaccompanied child walking in front of a country house at which he is staying, or his young sister's embarrassment by the author Thackeray at a family dinner. As James captures the pregnant meaning of such small moments in his novels, so does Toibin in this novel. A novel for those with a curiosity about the mind of Henry James.	2004-07-23
US	52811948	R173SVO6Y6WQYO	0375405917	107666840	A Good Year	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Head Off to the South of France Sans Luggage This Summer	If a trip to the South of France doesn't fit into this summer's budget, head to your bookstore instead, for copy of Peter Mayle's latest look at the charms and the foibles of the French. Max Skinner, a thirty-something Englishman struggling to make his way in London's shark-like financial world, loses his job and conveniently receives a surprise inheritance. Max's elderly English uncle, Henry has died bequeathing to Max a modest and somewhat decrepit chateau and vineyard. In his childhood Max had spent summers with good old uncle Henry, and now as Henry's supposedly only heir, Henry has left it all to Max. And just in time too to head off financial disaster after Max is fired, and to rescue him from the ghastly London weather. Max heads off to the south of France to check out the state of his inheritance, and along the way meets a taciturn farmhand, a lovely notaire, a gorgeous local restaurant owner, and a California Napa valley girl who may or may not be Uncle Henry's love child, thus complicating the inheritance picture. Max wants to get the vineyard up and running, and to add to the fun encounters a vineyard mystery. Someone is hiding the fact that a portion of the vineyard produces outstanding wine. But where are the profits going? Who is covering up the fact and cooking the books? All gets unraveled in the end, and we are treated to a charming look at the French and their habits (descriptions of wine tastings and local cuisine abound), and some well-placed jibes at the English and the American character as well as the wine industry. Light-hearted, charming and fun, a perfect novel to enjoy this summer.	2004-07-05
US	52811948	R2N96ZCEL73DMP	1400060419	782072394	Sleeping with Schubert: A Novel	Books	3	15	19	N	N	Classic "Chick Lit " With a Gloss of Culture and Class	Make no mistake, this is classic \\"Chick Lit\\", with the requisite wise-cracking heroine, Liza, a thirty-something Jewish lawyer from  Brooklyn Heights. In addition there is the required on again, off again boyfriend, a male best friend (no, not gay this time around), a yenta mother, a shallow but gorgeous competitive sister who wears size 11 shoes (the only thing taking away from her perfection),and a rather happy-handed brother-in-law, who Liza's sister stole away from her.To complete the a la Bridget Jones picture, instead of daily reports on cigarettes consumed, and pounds lost and gained, at the beginning of each chapter, we get weekly reports written by Liza's psychiatrist.  One day, while hitting the shoe department in Nordstrom on a visit to her parents in California, Liza discovers she is inhabited by the ghost of Franz Schubert. Suddenly her world is turned upside down. She quits her lawyering job and has her debut at Carnegie Hall. She is a wunderkind who has never had piano lessons beyond tinkering in the second grade. But now she is the grand interpreter of the music of the great Schubert. The classical music world is taken by storm. Is Liza the real thing, or an imposter? The author skewers modern life - the talk show, advertising, music critics, Juilliard music professors - as we wonder has Schubert, perhaps returned to finish the Unfinished Symphony? Along the way we learn virtually nothing about Schubert's life and music. In fact, until half way through the book(page 200 or so), not one word is said regarding his background at all. In a series of dreams Liza shares with Franz, we get the tiniest glimpse of his life. But if you are reading this book, hoping to learn something along the way, forget it. The writing can be quite pedestrian at times, e.g. \\"The Hotel Imperial is a huge, ornate pastry. The exterior is held up by more columns than there are pigeons to poop on them\\". But there are some laughs between it's covers, so give it a try if you are inneed of a good beach read this summer. But if you should miss it, don't despair. It's apparently been optioned by those cultural whiz-kids in Hollywood.	2004-07-03
US	52811948	R2CJOC7EPPSFOL	0826415865	11126270	Book of Hours	Books	5	20	20	N	Y	Powerfully Enriching and Inspiring	In this book we follow Father Lee through a year spent in Rome in the seventies, teaching American students attending a Catholic University. He opens the eyes of his students, as he does his readers, to the power of art to enrich and inspire us. We follow him as he teachs his students about the works of Homer and Virgil, and we come to understand the freshness of these works written thousands of years ago. We follow him as he travels to the opera houses of Europe in pursuit of one of his passions - opera. The conversations he has with ordinary people he meets en route are powerful ruminations on theology and philosophy. A gay American couple he meets on a train, who are unable to come to terms with Church teaching on homosexuality, challenge his notions of religion and love. A performance of Wagner's Die Meistersinger sparks a conversation with a German couple - innkeepers - who wrestle with Germany and the Holocaust. His thoughts on the fire bombing of Dresden I found powerful and devastating especially in view of today's world situation. His thoughts on 'that most complicated of the performing arts - opera - I found refreshing. I have known Father Lee through his wonderful books on opera, but The Book of Hours gives us a much deeper look at the world around us, and the role the arts play in that world, and in the human soul. What Father Lee reminds those of us who love the arts, is that they connect us with the divine. They draw us to what is deep inside us, and what is extraordinary outside us, for in the end the arts help us touch what is immanent and what is transcendant. A must read for those with a deep appreciation for literature, art and music.	2004-06-27
US	52811948	R28DB54RHY4EHQ	1573222011	510182268	The Illuminated Soul	Books	3	1	1	N	N	The Life Changing Effects Brought By A Mysterious Visitor	Into the lives of a Jewish  Canadian widow (Mrs. Ivri) and her two young sons, arrives a mysterious Czechoslovakian woman.  She has escaped from the Holocaust and in the process saved an old illuminated manuscript of spiritual dimensions, that had been protected by her scholarly father.  This lovely novel explores the powerful impact that one individual can have upon us, even though their life may only touch ours briefly.  Eva Higashi, the mysterious woman, who bears the name of her Japanese husband, now deceased, enchants the widow and her two young sons with her joie de vivre, and her colorful, insightful and unusual stories of her life and escape from the Nazis.  The Hebrew word for angel also means messenger - one who is sent by God. Perhaps for the Ivris, Eva may be that messenger from God who has arrived to teach them about the imponderables of life.  An unusual and esoteric story, in the end I found it difficult to connect emotionally with these characters, thus the three stars.	2004-06-18
US	52811948	R1CNNG1A7D7LXN	0312422555	721219604	The Marriage of the Sea: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The UnKnowability of Place and The Human Heart	Brilliantly placing her story in New Orleans and Venice, I disagree with the reviewer who could see no relationship between these two cities. Both are magical and mysterious cities that exist as much in one's imagination as in reality, and this is what Alison captures so well. The story of seven characters are vaguely linked in this story - two married couples, whose marriages are disintegrating like the two cities in which they are set, as well as two single people engaged in a subtle dance of courtship and desire. Finally there is an elderly, patrician Venetian facing his physical disintegration, as he longs to preserve the beauty of Venice in the construction of a 'water' villa floating on the surface of the lagoon.<br />Several reviewers criticized the lack of character development in this novel. I believe the author chose to do this purposely. Her characters advance and retreat like the tides themselves, while the author captures their vague and ephemeral natures, characteristics which they share with the cities in which the novel is set.  This is a beautifully lyrical novel in which the unknowability of the human heart is explored.	2004-06-05
US	52811948	R1WQJ6DWI0HA6	0312993870	515201292	What I Loved	Books	4	5	7	N	Y	An Examination of Loss and Moral Bankruptcy	&quot;What I Loved&quot; is a story about the friendship between an art historian and an artist, and their two families including their two sons who are nearly the same age. It is a novel of loss -  the loss of children, spouses, friends and lovers over a span of twenty-five years. It reminds us that change is an inevitable part of life. It is also an indictment of the vacuity and moral ambiguity of modern day life, particularly in the trendy, fast paced New York art world and club scene, where an artist who creates art works of cleverly violent moral bankruptcy can rise to the pinnacle of success; and where the club scene is filled with teenagers whose parents are absent while they chase success, leaving their kids rudderless, rootless and literally and figuaratively empty. A large part of the novel explores one of the teenage sons and his descent into the hellish netherworld of the club scene. Another segment of the book follows one of the characters as she writes a book on 19th century hysteria and it's late 20th-21st century equivalent, anorexia. This is a gripping and atmospheric novel of complex ideas on art and modern day life, and what it means for us and our children. Sometimes sinister, sometimes wrenchingly painful, this is a novel definitely worth reading and reflecting upon.	2004-06-04
US	52811948	R1LK4U4HEV7EB5	0871139030	349635017	Uniform Justice: A Commissario Guido Brunetti Mystery	Books	4	5	9	N	N	A Web of Political Corruption	The military, and political corruption are the targets in Commissario Brunetti's twelfth outing. Once again there is the lovely backdrop of Venice - that city of contradictions, yet it seems with each Brunetti novel Venice as a character is fading more and more. I wish Leon would bring it back to prominence. Although the 'whodunit' here is not difficult to guess, the ending still comes as a surprise. One of the pleasures of the Brunetti novels is in watching the workings of his mind, and how he deals with moral ambiguities, and those ambiguities are at the heart of this novel. Another pleasure is seeing the role his family plays as he solves the puzzle. His wife Paola is as integral to these books as Brunetti himself. The Brunetti novels are way above what one finds in other mysteries these days, and is highly recommended. However, I could have done without the presence of the author's subtle and not so subtle jibes at politics in the United States.	2004-01-21
US	52811948	R32JN5XVQDXVAR	1565122577	412304108	The English Disease	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	A New Millennium Portnoy Has Appeared	Charles Belski, musicologist, expert on the neurotically depressed Gustave Mahler, whose 'disease' Belski also shares, finds himself on the assimilated Jew's journey in American to discover who he is and his place in the Jewish world. Belski a new millennium Portnoy is condemned to forever chase the 'shiksa goddess' after his first grade teacher provides him with a six year old beautiful shiksa desk mate. The novel opens with Belski traveling through the Southwest with his shiksa goddess wife with whom he has become disenchanted. We follow Belski through the land of the 'glue eater's' as he takes his gentile daughter to day care and on a trip to Auschwitz with his hilarious colleague Liebowitz, who offers a witty exegesis on how the Marx Brothers are models of the Ascent of Assmiliating Jewish Man. Skibell's writing is intelligent, piquant and fun, and at the end Belski discovers his place on Liebowitz's model Ascent. I won't spoil the book by revealing that place.	2003-12-27
US	52811948	R2L441ZUZOJUQA	0521578876	125985010	The Life of Debussy (Musical Lives)	Books	2	3	7	N	N	Too Concise, Dry and Dull	This is unfortunately, a 'too' concise biography of Debussy which never really gives a sense of what the man was like, or the impact of his music on the twentieth century. A disappointment after a good experience with another book in the Cambridge music series.	2003-10-20
US	52811948	R4GMY05H8AR6S	1931243468	67850014	Lieutenant Gustl (Green Integer)	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Intriguing Early Example of  Stream of Consciousness	Written in 1901, twenty years before James Joyce's &quot;Ulysses&quot;, this is a very early example of the literary stream of consciousness technique. Indeed, Joyce acknowledged his debt to this story. It is an indictment of Austrian militarism, as the book explores the mind of the young Viennese officer, Lieutenant Gustl. Gustl ruminates upon whether to take his own life, after suffering what he believes to be an insult to his honor, while retrieving his coat at the cloakroom after a concert he is attending. His thoughts flit from one thing to another, and the reader is given a look at the shallow and arrogant nature of Austrian society during the fin de siecle period.	2003-10-08
US	52811948	RXDVZQNULYVGU	1901285065	528115985	Fraulein Else	Books	4	16	18	N	Y	Brilliant Stream of Consciousness Novella	Written in 1924 in the stream of consciousness technique used by James Joyce, this novella is an examination of the mind of the nineteen year old Fraulein Else. Else the daughter of a well known Viennese attorney is vacationing at an elegant hotel in the Alps. There she receives a telegram from her mother which will have a significant impact upon her life. Her mother wishes her to approach a long time friend of the family, a much older man, who is also vacationing at the hotel. Else's father has a long time obsession with gambling and has misappropriated trust funds belonging to his clients in order pay off gambling debts. To keep him from the shame of debtor's prison, her mother asks Else to approach the older man to pay back the money that will keep Else's father out of prison. What happens in the mind of Else during the hours where she must wrestle with the shame of asking him for the money, the debauched payment he requires, her reaction to his demand for payment and her ultimate decision and it's horrific outcome is the subject which Schnitzler brilliantly explores. Schnitzler has been largely forgotten by readers, but this brilliantly crafted book deserves to be read.	2003-10-06
US	52811948	RVVXDF92XF4PP	0971063206	185472596	Artifact: A Peter Grant Mystery	Books	1	2	2	N	Y	Shame on the Publisher and Author	Shame on the publisher and author for putting this morass of grammatical and typographical errors in front of the buying public. When I counted 30 such errors in the first 75 pages I gave up and stopped counting. Mr. Geddes have you no shame?  Could you not make sure your book was properly proofread.<br />Now to go on to the the actual story. I would hardly call it original. The Commissario character is borrowed from Donna Leon's fine novels. However, the Commissario here is a bore compared to her Commissario Brunetti. Geddes steals the aging Princess character from the Venetian mysteries of Edward Skeplowich. The mystery plods along with some nice scenery. The author practically hangs a red flag around the neck of the murderer pages and pages before he is revealed. Other plot point clues are also telegraphed by the author. It doesn't take much talent to figure out the resolution of the puzzle, just as it's obvious there isn't much talent on display in this novel. However, I give it one star for reminding me of the exquisite La Serenissima and it's unique ambiance. If you love Venice read it for that purpose only. Otherwise read Donna Leon's mystery novels instead. They are intelligent, astute and entertaining, something this novel definitely is not.	2003-09-30
US	52811948	R23JXKO9D9P0NZ	0805067884	607359357	The Tristan Chord: Wagner and Philosophy	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Essential Reading for Any Wagner Lover	The Tristan Chord is a brilliant exploration of the evolutionary nexus between Wagner's political and philosophical beliefs, and the momunental works of art he created. For me the finest part of the book is the very detailed examination of the philosophy of Schopenhauer and it's extraordinary impact on the composer. To be able to write on such a complex subject and to do it in such a completely compelling and readable way is an amazing achievement. Essential reading for a deepening understanding of Wagner's oeuvre.	2003-09-30
US	52811948	R1DHG6BQEZJJS6	1901285480	208309489	Twenty-Four Hours in the Life of a Woman	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	A Little Gem of a Novel	Perhaps not as psychologically compelling and taut as some of Zweig's other work, this novella is still worth reading for it's fine writing. At a hotel in Monte Carlo in the days after World War I, a group of wealthy travelers are shocked to learn that a married woman of their set has suddenly left her husband and family on the arms of a seducer whom she has known less then twenty-four hours. Each guest chimes in with their opinion of the woman's extraordinary behavior. Our narrator expresses his understanding of the woman's actions while the others vehemently condemn the lady. Suddenly he finds himself the confidante of an older woman who is in the group. She tells him the tale of how twenty years earlier she too had been drawn to an intense younger man who she observed in the casino one evening. Zweig explores the motivations and the ramifications of a sudden act of passion.	2003-09-13
US	52811948	R2IRPUBF0C18MN	0841914052	177747995	The Royal Game & Other Stories	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	A Psychological Tour de Force	Zweig is a gripping storyteller and these stories are taut, atmospheric and psychologically astute. Zweig explores the human mind in the grip of obsession, fear, guilt, sexuality and suicide. My favorite of these five stories was \\"The Burning Secret\\", a brilliant exploration of the anatomy of the seduction of a married woman, with her young son the implement of the seducer's art. In the process we are shown the inner workings of a child's mind as it becomes aware of the hidden power of sexuality. Each story is gripping and beautifully written.	2003-09-06
US	52811948	R401K84GFVTMR	1901285227	724867186	Confusion: The Private Papers of Privy Councillor R von D	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Zweig should be rediscovered	I knew of Zweig as Richard Strauss' librettist. Wanting to see what his work was like when he stood on his own I discovered his novella, &quot;Confusion&quot;. Elegantly and tautly written it is the story of a respected professor reflecting back upon his life and about the man who had the greatest impact on his life. This man is his English professor. As a young student, our narrator is drawn to this brooding man and his mysterious wife. He is drawn into the web of their lives and the terrible secret that is hidden there.	2003-08-30
US	52811948	R1F3GJC64BVPWF	1584650443	275090028	The Day Laid on the Altar (Bakeless Prize)	Books	2	3	3	N	N	For the Very Patient Reader	Like repetitive brush strokes, the author's sparse prose circles round and round, to build up a vivid portrait of the life of an artist in Renaissance Italy. Alternating chapters describe the lives of three artists, two unknown and one the revered painter, Titian.  It took me a while to get into the book. The writing style is vivid, but repetitive and distancing. I'd recommend this book for those with a more serious interest in the creative life of 16th century Italy.	2001-10-17
US	52811948	R2CDWX6PBQU787	0786708239	155843737	Miss Garnet's Angel: A Novel	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	A Book as Beautiful and Magical as Venice Itself	What a joy to read this lovely book shortly after returning from a trip to Venice. Steeped in the art and history of Venice and in an obscure story from the Apocrypha, the novel is multitextural, haunting, and ethereal just like the serpentine streets of that most Serene of Cities. The subject matter sounds weighty but it is never dull.  Elements of a mystery are part of this story of the spinster English school teacher Miss Jula Garnet who is changed forever by her stay in Venice and the people she meets there.I kept turning pages to find out what would happen next. Just a wonderfully literate,and thoughtful book. It will stay in your memory.	2001-09-06
US	52811948	R24P8DQ389HE1Q	0375420657	690407391	An Italian Affair	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Entertaining Fluff	Most fittingly I recently read this book on a flight from New York to Venice. As in flight entertainment it was enjoyable.  The author's pain and vulnerability in the face of the collapse of her marriage is touching and honestly rendered, but I found the Professor not to be terribly appealing. The descriptions of various travel locales were wonderful, but the author's choosing to write the book in the second person was annoying and distracting.	2001-09-02
US	52811948	R4ZML1D7K9QT1	0385334893	414482955	Tulip Fever	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Dutch Schlock	&quot;Tulip Fever&quot; is an entertaining beach read smartened up with the gloss of 17th century Dutch art and history. The plot stretches credulity and it's main character, Sophia is loathsome. The only likeable character in the book is Cornelius. I pitied him for being enthralled by his vacuous young wife.&quot;The Girl With a Pearl Earring&quot; is a much better book.	2001-08-23
US	52811948	REWLXFXJ139VC	0316781142	704361388	The Last Time They Met: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Ending Will Astound You	This is the story of an ill fated romance told backwards. It  begins with an encounter between Thomas and Linda at a writer's   conference. They haven't seen each other in 20 plus years. The fire of love is rekindled. The book then moves to their adulterous romance at age 27 which came to a tragic end, and then their teenage love at age 17. Despite the passage of years they are soul mates and each time they encounter each other they are inexorably drawn to each other. But the story we think we are reading isn't quite what we thought. In the end  everything we thought we have come to understand about their  lives is shaken. The poignant ending stunned me. It will make you weep.	2001-05-29
US	52811948	R31UMXWG3DI6CF	0312192525	128650106	The Concubine's Tattoo	Books	1	3	6	N	N	As Painful as Being Slashed with a Samurai's Sword	I picked up this book because the idea of a mystery set in 17th century Japan sounded intriguing but reading it became a dreadful ordeal. Despite the veneer of historical accuracy the language and dialogue used is ridiculously modern. Sano, the novel's samurai detective follows his 'hunches'. Did anyone use the word hunch in 17th century Japan. The book just felt false to me. I felt like I was putting on the cloak of Japan during this period instead of really being immersed in it. A mystery novel like &quot;The Fig Eater's by Jody Shield's truly made me  feel like I was existing in the historical period  she was writing  about. Now if we could get Rowland's plotting together with  Shield's feel for history we could get an outstanding mystery novel.	2001-05-19
US	52811948	R2MRM41XCJJH0S	0316785644	658358380	The Fig Eater	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A Case of Showing Off	I'd suggest going with the original inspiration for this novel, Freud's, &quot;Dora: An Analysis of a Case of Hysteria&quot; which is a truly fascinating piece of writing. Shield's idea here is wonderful, but she fails to carry it off. The book is nothing but a vehicle for showing off her prodigious research on 'fin-de-siecle' Vienna. All sorts of details are thrown in about Vienna just for the sake of putting them in and without furthering the plot in any way. The ending was a huge disappointment. The author had the best of intentions here and the book could have been truly interesting, thus the three stars, but in the end it was a bore.	2001-04-24
US	52811948	R2KP8U7VCE1WUM	0312204272	358028755	The Museum Guard: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Intriguing Idea, the Ending was Strained	I had never heard of Norman, but picked up the book at the airport in Houston between connecting flights. I was drawn to the title. The plot was intriguing and unusual. I've been to many museums but pay little mind to  the guards there and it came as a surprise to me that they actually might  be influenced by the works of art they guard all day. My attention was held  throughout but ultimately the end was strained. It was inconceivable to me  that the musuem curator and the art professor could not see that assisting  Imogene in working out her delusional behavior in soon to by invaded  Amsterdam would lead to her death because of  her obsession with her Jewish  roots. But Norman was interesting enough that I look forward to reading his  other books.	2000-06-13
US	52811948	R1RWF1YEM3CGTD	0786880252	732936480	Opera 101: A Complete Guide to Learning and Loving Opera	Books	5	11	15	N	N	A Delightful Introduction to the Opera	A perfect book for those just starting out on their journey into the delightful world of opera. It's easy to read and informative, and Mr. Plotkin is deliciously opinionated, a characteristic shared with most opera  goers. It's like having an extended and fun conversation at intermission  time with an opera aficionado.	2000-04-09
US	52811948	R36I2KQ0YSVK1L	0446521663	362112589	Host Family	Books	3	1	2	N	Y	A Good Beach Read for this Summer	If you want a breezy and easy beach read for the summer this is a good choice. Unfortunately I found it's humor annoyingly glib. It stretched belief that Daisy, the protagonist found her true love on the very day that  her husband of twenty plus years informed her he wanted out of the  marriage. But I suppose this book is not about reality.	2000-03-15
US	52811948	R127GRME8YP0IL	0156724006	391771733	A Poetry Handbook	Books	5	27	39	N	N	A Small Treasure	It's a small treasure for those who are about to embark on the arduous and mysterious journey of writing poetry. Her prose is as lyrical as her poetry, as she teaches about the essence of this magical process.	2000-03-13
