US	52810271	R2O9L8W3I3OTDC	0785266712	614023552	As For Me And My House Crafting Your Marriage To Last	Books	5	6	6	N	N	a better way for a strong marriage foundation	As a Lutheran pastor, I certainly have a soft spot for other well-written Lutheran pastors.  Be that as it may, AS FOR ME AND MY HOUSE is, without a doubt, the most helpful resource I've found for couples who want to build a genuinely fruitful Christian marriage.  I say \\"build\\" because a marriage does not happen overnight - it is constructed over years of companionship, trust and, lest we forget, forgiveness.  No other resource that I've seen even comes close to describing the kind of work a successful marriage requires, and no other resource identifies forgiveness, not love, as the centerpiece of that rare gem, a fruitful Christian marriage.  I give this book to my pre-marriage couples, but I would give it to a 60-years married couple with no hesitation, because I believe that they would learn from Walt (and Thanne's!) wisdom and counsel.	2005-01-20
US	52810271	R1RL24T5S5YA25	0312421273	647099960	The Corrections: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Oprah hype irrelevant - CORRECTIONS is well worth the effort	Jonathon Franzen's THE CORRECTIONS is an incredible novel that is well worth the effort of getting past the first 100 pages or so.  It has been a long time since I've read something so engrossing that is based on characters I find thoroughly repugnant at the start; Franzen's skill as a writer held my attention until the story just swallowed me up.<br />What works best in this engaging novel is the simple instability of four of the five main characters.  Franzen works magic as he recounts the epic rise and fall of Enid, Gary, Denise, and Chip Albright - in his recounting of their self-sabotaging imperfections the reader is horrified and at the same time not at all surprised.  As Franzen weaves their stories around Alfred, the 'head of the household,' the effect is nearly hypnotizing; in his advancing dementia Alfred is taken prisoner by what he considers his highest virtue, the ability to remain 'private' to the point of emotional solitary confinement.  Alfred's distance, one realizes, is at the same time a gift and a curse for his family.  They all thrive in their own reflections of his emotional isolation, yet their craving for the connection that comes only with emotional vulnerability and openness leads them all to horrible levels of self-delusion and denial.<br />THE CORRECTIONS is just what the title suggests - a recounting of external issues that must be painfully borne and also an evaluation of how different people may or may not be open to the self-understanding that comes only when one considers one's family of origin.  But if this were just psychology wrapped up in fiction it wouldn't be nearly so entertaining - Franzen's skill is such that even when the reader's skin is crawling with revulsion (and a bit of self-identification as well!), they also can't wait to turn the page and find out what happens next.  THE CORRECTIONS is a book that will cause discomfort in the first few hundred pages, yet it is well worth the effort in the end.	2003-01-26
US	52810271	RTTUSF36EFTB0	0380789035	337033298	American Gods	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Imaginative and intriguing - Gaiman is a storyteller!	Neil Gaiman's AMERICAN GODS is a first-rate yarn, a tall tale in the tradition of the best American mythology.  It is a paradoxical, creative journey of revelation and self-discovery.<br />AMERICAN GODS' main character, Shadow, is swept into a conflict raging between gods who moved to America with their worshippers and were promptly forgotten.  Apparently, gods do not do well in America, finding it difficult to inspire worship and sacrifice in a land so diverse and filled with such rich blessings and horrible curses.  As Shadow interacts with the gods, he travels the country and deals with his own past, his dead-yet-walking wife, and future prospects that seem uncertain at best.<br />If this were, as some have suggested, an exercise of an over-active imagination, I would have been much less appreciative of this novel.  However, the wandering storyline of this novel was, for me, one of its most appealing aspects.  As Shadow is a rambler, so is this story - the best American mythology does the same, moving about this vast country and discovering riches in the most unlikely places.<br />I think that, rather than being unfocused, AMERICAN GODS is in fact a reflection of America as seen from an outsider's viewpoint (Gaiman is British-born).  As the center of the story begins to shift (and that shift is one of the most unexpected pleasures of the book), readers will, I believe, appreciate Gaiman's gifts as a writer: seamless integration of research into interesting plotlines, with vibrant character development to boot.<br />A word to readers:  THIS IS NOT REALLY FANTASY/SCIENCE FICTION.  At least, it is not F/SF in the vein of Asimov or the Pern series, where technology or fantasy drive the story.  AMERICAN GODS is, in my opinion, fiction, plain and simple, with some elements of F/SF thrown in.  I would compare it to the works of Orson Scott Card or Ray Bradbury's longer stories and novels.<br />Neil Gaiman, I think, will continue to be a major voice in literature, if AMERICAN GODS is any indication of the quality of his writing and his creative vision.if AMERICAN GODS is any indication of the quality of his writing and his creative vision.	2002-05-14
US	52810271	R1YCHGORD0IATD	0060931930	882375795	Giants in the Earth: A Saga of the Prairie (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	84	85	N	N	An immigrant classic	O.E. Rolvaag's epic GIANTS IN THE EARTH is truly an American classic, especially for those of Norwegian or Scandinavian descent or those who've lived in the Great Plains.  It seems to be a true description of the life the early settlers lived, the desperation of opressive freedom, and the claustrophobic effect of too much open space.<br />Per Hansa, the protagonist of our story, moves his family from a fishing village in Norway to the plains of the Dakota Territory in the last part of the 19th century.  They are homesteaders, the people who settled the untamed prairie and bound themselves to it, sometimes at great personal cost.<br />Rolvaag brilliantly describes both the psychological effect of early prairie life and the Norwegian immigrant culture of the time.  Being a new land, there were new challenges, new ideas, and new opportunities.  In Per Hansa, Rolvaag invents a character that displays the passion and drive of the early settlers.  His wife, Beret, like so many wives of the time, follows him with little idea of the hardships and, unfortunately, none of the psychological tools to deal with them.  Their neighbors are wonderfully crafted:  Tonesten, the whiner; Kjersti, his strong, capable, disrespectful wife; Hans Ola, the solid, dependable Scandinavian whose success is not so much from following his dreams as it is making no mistakes.<br />One comes to love the settlers even as they deal with squatters, locusts, sod houses, and the endless winter of the northern Plains.  Midwestern Americans of Scandinavian descent will know that this is our story - our great-grandparents and great-great grandparents were contemporaries of Per Hansa and Beret.<br />Rolvaag should know this story - he himself was an immigrant and lived in Northfield, Minnesota for many years.  The book was originally written in Norwegian and published in Norway, so in translation some idioms and cultural forms are hard to understand, but the translators and editors of the current text do a fine job with footnotes and introductory material.do a fine job with footnotes and introductory material.	2002-03-18
US	52810271	R2YPQQAO61SCXS	0842329129	46316172	Left Behind: A Novel of the Earth's Last Days (Left Behind No. 1)	Books	1	41	53	N	N	Leave it behind	Many, many people have lifted up the LEFT BEHIND series as good Christian writing.  Unfortunately, I must disagree, vehemently.  As a seminary student, I wanted to at least give the first book a try, because so many Christians are reading this series and seem to enjoy it.  So I tried it.  I didn't like it.  End of story.<br />What's not to like?  Well, for starters, even as a Christian I found the plotline required too much suspension of disbelief to be credible.  The main characters seem bound by the authors' intention to make leaps of faith and logic that defy the imagination at times.  Other Christian writers, even those who write Christian fiction, are able to walk the reader through faith struggles in a way that seems believable - LaHaye and Jenkins cannot, in my opinion.  The plot seems wooden, the characters even more so, and quite frankly, I disliked every last one of them from the start, a sure sign that something is wrong with the writing.<br />Christian authors usually write with the intent of inspiring faith in their readers.  The best of them, people like Walt Wangerin and C.S. Lewis, are able to work their inspiration without being obvious about it - regardless of faith, the story remains interesting and entertaining.  LaHaye and Jenkins, however, show their agenda from the start, and their heavy-handed treatment of the story left me feeling disgusted, not inspired.  As a Christian, I was dismayed at the level of intimidation in this book - I can't even imagine what a non-believer would feel.<br />All in all, I felt the level of writing was amatuerish at best.  Toward the end of LEFT BEHIND, I found myself extremely disinterested in the story, but wanted to finish it anyway because I felt I needed to give the authors a chance to redeem the story.  It didn't happen.  The climax was as bad as the rest of it - predictable, uninspiring, and emotionally flat.<br />If you're looking for quality fiction from a Christian point of view, I would recommend you keep searching.  Yes, the LEFT BEHIND series is a bestseller, but that's not always an indicator of quality.  Try it if you like, but be forewarned - it may not be worth your while.u keep searching.  Yes, the LEFT BEHIND series is a bestseller, but that's not always an indicator of quality.  Try it if you like, but be forewarned - it may not be worth your while.	2001-12-22
US	52810271	RUPE4GN119HPC	0375504397	237509158	Black House: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A definitely positive rebound from DREAMCATCHER	After being disappointed with DREAMCATCHER, I was very, very hopeful that Stephen King's second collaboration with Peter Straub would be an enjoyable read.  Thankfully, my hopes were fulfilled.  While it isn't the best, BLACK HOUSE is a return to the things most King readers enjoy most - a good, spooky story, fully realized characters in whom the reader can believe, and a pace that makes the reader wonder how in the world they ever read the book so quickly.<br />Like many King readers (Constant Readers, as King himself likes to call us), I typically devour new books when they arrive, then return for a second, more savory reading at a later date.  At this point, I've only accomplished the former, but I'm looking forward to the latter.  BLACK HOUSE is a truly enjoyable read.  Those who have read its predecessor, THE TALISMAN, will enjoy finding themselves wrapped up in the world of Jack Sawyer again, but even new readers should find that BLACK HOUSE isn't an insider's novel - elements from THE TALISMAN are brought into BLACK HOUSE in such a way that the reader understands what's happening even if this is their first King novel.<br />Jack Sawyer is one of King's most enjoyable characters, but in BLACK HOUSE he faces a dilemma that is new for King readers - a moral question that isn't simply good versus evil.  Jack is intensely attracted to a married woman who holds the key to the mystery in this story, and his struggle with that attraction is one of the most wonderful elements of BLACK HOUSE.  Henry Leyden, Jack's blind, immensely talented friend, is another character most readers will enjoy quite a lot.  His humor, as King fans have come to expect, skates the very fine line between tastefully honest and downright vulgar, resulting in some truly funny moments.  But Leyden is also a compassionate character as well, making us care about him and his relationship with Jack.<br />All said, this is good writing, especially since it is very difficult to tell where Straub or King is telling the tale.  I've not read anything by Peter Straub, but being a King fan, I can definitely say that BLACK HOUSE is worth your while, regardless if this is your first encounter with Stephen King or if you are, like me, a Constant Reader.King is telling the tale.  I've not read anything by Peter Straub, but being a King fan, I can definitely say that BLACK HOUSE is worth your while, regardless if this is your first encounter with Stephen King or if you are, like me, a Constant Reader.	2001-12-19
US	52810271	R1WXFO585MGNX4	0312876513	882430933	Shadow of the Hegemon (The Shadow Series)	Books	4	7	12	N	N	Another excellent episode in the Ender/Bean saga	SHADOW OF THE HEGEMON is yet another worthy episode in Orson Scott Card's excellent series about the Formic War and its consequences.  While this book is not as good as ENDER'S GAME or even its immediate predecessor ENDER'S SHADOW, it is still a great read.<br />Bean, otherwise known as Julian Delphiki, has now returned to Earth after being discharged from Battle School.  When several of his classmates are kidnapped, Bean must figure out who is doing it, why, and how he can help.  Eventually, Bean's adversary Achilles surfaces as the major antagonist, and Bean must deal with his own history as he attempts to figure out how to rescue Petra Arkanian, his closest friend at Battle School.<br />Card has woven an intricate plot, with international themes and some religious undertones, though SHADOW OF THE HEGEMON is not nearly as religious as the last three Ender novels XENOCIDE, SPEAKER FOR THE DEAD, and CHILDREN OF THE MIND.  Bean is still the arrogant, confident mastermind who was responsible for many of the innovative plans Ender used to conquer the Buggers in the Formic War, only this time he is working to save his friends.  Peter Wiggin, Ender's older brother, is working to put himself in a position to assume the title of Hegemon and lead Earth to worldwide peace, and Bean must assist him, fully knowing that the difference between Peter Wiggin and Achilles is less than one would desire but enough to make a world of difference.<br />Card has again written a book with an almost impossible premise (children so brilliant that they hold the future of the human race in their hands), but he writes it so well that one barely notices the improbable aspects of the plot.  SHADOW OF THE HEGEMON continues the Ender/Bean saga very well, drawing ethical and theological concerns into the narrative seamlessly and effortlessly.  This book is worth your time, especially if you enjoyed any of the other books dealing with these characters.	2001-04-29
US	52810271	R1VAVV3JHUJWWE	0743211383	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Still great, but not King's best	Fans of Stephen King's earlier work seem to be very happy with DREAMCATCHER, which bears a lot of resemblance to his earlier work. As a King fan for years, I really looked forward to this novel, but upon completion, I found that it was not as good as his past work, and it truly pales in light of his most recent, excellent works like BAG OF BONES and THE GIRL WHO LOVED TOM GORDON.  Many King fans enjoy his writing because of the wonderful character development; we feel like we KNOW these characters by the time the last hundred pages arrive. DREAMCATCHER, unfortunately, seems to be lacking that character development - one never gets to know the characters outside of the present and the past circumstances which affect the present in some way, shape or form.<br />As a cohesive element, Duddits Cavell is not nearly as believable as the pariah status of the Loser's Club (IT) or the Little Bald Doctors (INSOMNIA), King's previous (and excellent) novels about Derry. In addition, the human antagonists (namely Kurtz and the soldiers following his lead) seem formulaic and predictable. The story might have been better served had they left the tale far earlier.<br />I did enjoy several elements of the story. Beaver Clarendon was a very interesting character, especially his interesting and very amusing talent for obscenity. The relationship formed between Mr. Gray, the alien, and Jonesy, his human host, was very interesting and deserved more illumination. The idea that human emotion could be intoxicating for those who have never experienced it was a new one for me, and King as usual explores the possibilities in a very unique and enlightening fashion.  There are also moments of heart-rending sweetness between the four heroes and Duddits, their friend; the fact that it seems ALMOST too good to be true but isn't is a reflection of King's ability to give us very human characters.<br />What works in DREAMCATCHER is what is on the page, for the most part; the villian Kurtz could be left without a huge sense of loss.  What might have drastically improved this novel is what King has often done in the past - showing how the actions of the central characters affect the peripheral characters, and giving us more background information to make the central characters more alive, more interesting, more human. Stephen King's latest is a very, very good book, but it is not as good as I was hoping it would be.left without a huge sense of loss.  What might have drastically improved this novel is what King has often done in the past - showing how the actions of the central characters affect the peripheral characters, and giving us more background information to make the central characters more alive, more interesting, more human. Stephen King's latest is a very, very good book, but it is not as good as I was hoping it would be.	2001-03-30
US	52810271	RAHLZ4K4R6STT	0451191137	325409950	Anthem	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Rand's Objectivist views at their most idealistic..	In stark opposition to her massive (but equally well-written) novels THE FOUNTAINHEAD and ATLAS SHRUGGED, ANTHEM presents Ayn Rand's Objectivist philosophy in a very engaging, idealistic manner.  ANTHEM is brief, concise, and drives quickly from start to finish with no hesitation, no unexpected plot delays, and very little indecision on the part of the main characters.<br />Much like 1984 and ANIMAL FARM, ANTHEM presents the 'horrors' of socialism and state oppression: loss of identity, corruption and deceit, and the despair associated with having every choice taken away, every voice silenced, every new idea crushed.  Unlike the former novels, the answer for Rand in ANTHEM is not victory over the state; the answer is escape followed by a revolution led from outside, an answer which parallels her own life.<br />Those who enjoyed Orwellian fiction should find the same kind of enjoyment in ANTHEM, a work which is in some ways unjustly overshadowed by THE FOUNTAINHEAD and ATLAS SHRUGGED.  The latter two are long, exhausting novels which, while worth the read, are labor-intensive.  ANTHEM is a marked contrast, a brief missive which is made excellent by the clarity of its message rather than the excellence of its argument.	2001-03-02
US	52810271	RUNGTLG3XGIBZ	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Excellent literature for children and adults alike	J.K. Rowling has done it again with HARRY POTTER AND THE GOBLET OF FIRE.  I have enjoyed every book in the series and Book 4 is no exception.  One could compare Rowling's work favorably with C.S. Lewis' NARNIA CHRONICLES and Susan Cooper's under-appreciated series THE DARK IS RISING.  This is fiction for children which is engaging and enjoyable for adults as well.  <br />One of the things I appreciate most about Harry Potter is that he is growing up in these novels, and like many of us, his coming of age will not be entirely pleasant or successful.  Granted, occasionally things are slanted a bit in his favor, and it would perhaps be more honest if the evil characters in Rowling's books were evil due to outside influences rather than their own personal wickedness, but I rarely find myself thinking about such matters when I'm actually reading the books.  Harry Potter's struggles and discoveries are what make these books magnificent; the wizardry element is just a bit of fantasy that spices things up at times.  After all, what child (or adult) wouldn't want a broomstick that could make you fly?<br />THE GOBLET OF FIRE dragged out a bit at times, which is why it doesn't get five stars, but make no mistake, the Harry Potter series books are definitely worth reading, whether you're 12 or 92 years old.	2001-02-13
US	52810271	R2IXWCUAP7PP0U	0020425651	400011174	The Dark Is Rising Sequence: Silver on the Tree; The Grey King; Greenwitch; The Dark Is Rising; and Over Sea, Under Stone	Books	5	147	151	N	N	An excellent fantasy series that is HIGHLY underrated	I first stumbled upon Susan Cooper's THE DARK IS RISING sequence when I was in sixth grade.  I was required to read a Newberry Award-winning book and do a report, and the cover of THE GREY KING looked kind of cool, so I gave it a shot.  Fifteen years later I still can't believe I haven't heard more about this series.<br />C.S. Lewis set the standard for children's fantasy literature with THE NARNIA CHRONICLES, and Susan Cooper has equaled Lewis' accomplishment in these books.  In some ways, the stories are much better because Cooper's target audience is a bit older, wiser, and more mature.  Evil characters are not always obvious in Cooper's world, nor are they always super-intelligent.  Cooper weaves elements of Arthurian legend and Welsh mythology into modern day England in a way that tends to swallow the reader whole.  Even as an adult I find these books rich and enjoyable; it is easy to forget that one is reading 'children's literature'.<br />Fans of THE NARNIA CHRONICLES or HARRY POTTER will find that THE DARK IS RISING is another series readers will enjoy no matter what their age may be.  My one caveat would be to parents of young children: there are scenes in these stories that may not be appropriate for children under the age of 10 or so.  As always, be aware of what your children are reading.  Once your children have reached an appropriate age, however, I would highly recommend THE DARK IS RISING for both you and your children!	2001-02-13
US	52810271	R197510CF56KMJ	038524388X	274159559	The Passion of Ayn Rand	Books	4	18	26	N	N	Ayn Rand from the inner circle...	For years I had heard of ATLAS SHRUGGED and Ayn Rand without knowing anything about the book or its controversial author.  In college I had the opportunity to take a course in biography and this was one of the books we were required to read.  It started a fascination with Rand that continues today.<br />It is amazing that Barbara Branden could provide such an objective look at Ayn Rand, considering the circumstances and history of their friendship and professional association.  Regardless of Branden's endorsement of the Objectivist movement, her personal history with Rand was certainly not one filled with enjoyable moments, especially toward the latter stages of Rand's association with Branden's husband Nathaniel.<br />Be that as it may, Branden provides a look at Ayn Rand from the inside circle, as it were.  Branden provides an investigation of the author struggling to publish and then struggling even more to parlay literary success into a philosophical revolution the likes of which have not been seen since Nietzche.  The story is well written, and Branden's personal involvement with Rand is neither edited nor 'touched up,' at least from this observer's perspective.<br />Those who have heard of Rand's work but are unsure regarding its meaning and scope might want to try this biography as an introduction.  Knowing the person behind the story will shed lightsome of the 20th century's most controversial literature.	2001-01-28
US	52810271	R3FO7CN38Z4856	0310218926	512021648	Paul:  A Novel	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Wangerin captures Biblical times again	Walter Wangerin's novel THE BOOK OF GOD was an excellent work of art, a filling-in of Biblical narrative that was at the same time daring and faithful to its roots.  With PAUL: A NOVEL Wangerin tries his hand at a more in-depth look at one of the most influential people of Western Civilization, Paul/Saul of Tarsus.<br />Wangerin shows exacting scholarship and discipline in this novel.  Paul's speech is sprinkled liberally with words pulled directly from his letters to the churches throughout the Mediterranean during the first century AD.  Wangerin provides 'fictional' settings for these words, but as in THE BOOK OF GOD, one gets the feeling that Wangerin could have been there himself.<br />A truly effective and wonderful part of this novel is the description and illumination of minor characters from Paul's letters.  Wangerin tells Paul's story through the eyes of Paul's contemporaries - Prisca, James, Peter, Timothy, Barnabas, and others all weave narratives throughout the book.  They knew Paul, and their stories illustrate the complex person we believe Paul to be.<br />Two minor blemishes keep this from 5 stars, in my opinion.  There are several letters from Seneca which, although they illustrate the political setting, seem unconnected the the rest of the story.  The other problem is that of the ending.  With Wangerin taking so many risks to novelize the story of Paul, one wishes he had been more definitive, more clear at the close of the book.<br />These are minor problems, however, and the bulk of the novel is a wonderful novelization of Paul's time as a missionary in the first century.  Wangerin is one of the few contemporary authors who combines a solid Christian faith and desire to tell the Christian story with an ability to actually write stories.  With so much dreck in the market being bought simply because it carries the label &quot;Christian,&quot; it's good to see that Walter Wangerin can write books that are just good, period.	2001-01-28
US	52810271	R25CJ5LZ92H1BV	0451169514	380266608	It	Books	5	3	4	N	N	SO much more than monsters!	IT is, without a doubt, one of Stephen King's finer novels.  The first King novel I ever read was CUJO; the novel that got me hooked on his writing was IT.<br />Unfortunately, many reviewers and readers have shunned King's work because of the genre in which he first published -- horror.  Don't misunderstand me: IT is a terrifying novel that deals with all manner of monsters, from sewer-dwelling maniac clowns to elephant-sized spiders.  But stopping with the monsters of IT would be akin to stopping with the elves of Tolkien.  Both King and Tolkien understand that the struggle's the thing which makes the story, and on that scale, I'd say that IT fares well indeed.<br />This is the story of seven friends who, for various reasons, find themselves outcasts among their peers.  They form a bond of friendship which holds true as they discover more and more about the evil force lurking in their hometown, a force that has begun to rise from its slumber to kill and feed.  But IT also follows these friends as adults, forced to remember this evil they've forgotten and to return to do battle again, even though childhood and its curious strengths seem to have disappeared.<br />I have enjoyed this book immensely each time I've read it, and I'm now on my first hardcover edition after reading two paperbacks to shreds.  IT is one of the books I imagine I will cherish my entire life, and I think you will, too.	2001-01-24
US	52810271	R8UBHVOG9NDQU	0812589041	401439625	Ender's Game	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Highly imaginative, spellbinding plot, sympathetic hero	Of the many science fiction novels I've read, I don't think any have surprised me as much as ENDER'S GAME.  I expected some kind of arcade hero in real life, along the lines of The Last Starfighter or something like that.  What I got was far beyond Space Invaders!<br />ENDER'S GAME revolves around several moral dilemmas while simultaneously building to a completely unexpected climax.  In retrospect, the climax seems obvious, but Orson Scott Card is such a masterful storyteller that the aroma of surprise still lingers on a second read, even though we remember what happens.  Ender Wiggin is a completely believable and lovable hero, a child forced to battle an enemy he doesn't see as well as the 'allies' who seem all too intent on destroying him first.  Card's descriptions of the various battle simulators and military training are vivid, remarkably original, and continually surprising in their scope.<br />This is the first in a series of novels about Ender Wiggin and, more recently, his sidekick Bean.  They are all wonderfully conceived and written, and all struggle with morality as well as technology and religion, but none of them pack the wallop of a good story like ENDER'S GAME.  I would rate this novel alongside THE MARTIAN CHRONICLES, the FOUNDATION series, and the DUNE series.  It isn't just a good science fiction novel:  ENDER'S GAME is one of the best novels I've read, period.	2001-01-24
US	52810271	R45FFF5W3V9YN	0966247809	960069051	Rich Mullins: Home	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Writing almost as poignant as his songs	This book is, like many things associated with Rich Mullins, far too short.  Rich's articles were as honest and soulful as his music, and after reading this collection one wishes that he were still around to be counseling, comforting, and most of all singing about the God he so dearly loved.  Anyone familiar with Rich's music should own this book -- it gives yet another glimpse into the heart and spirit of this modern-day saint.	2000-11-20
US	52810271	RNTEL6N5L0VN	0684853523	44310359	On Writing:  A Memoir of the Craft	Books	5	12	13	N	N	As usual, honesty rules for Mr. King	ON WRITING is Stephen King's latest foray into the world of writing, and I imagine this book, though it is non-fiction, will be as wildly successful as BAG OF BONES, which many believe to be King's best work.<br />Mr. King seems driven over the past few years by an impulse to impact his viewers and leave a legacy, a common impulse but one which he has the unique opportunity to fulfill through his writing.  ON WRITING will contribute to that legacy in a very substantial way.<br />The brief autobiography is a sometimes blunt, sometimes tender look at King's childhood, surrounded by monsters both real and imagined.  King's manual on how to write, however, is a brutal look at the realities of writing and the cost involved.  Anyone who has literary aspirations should not read this section without being prepared to be humbled and stripped of all pretensions to greatness.  Mr. King even offers a correction of his own draft to illustrate the painful process of good writing, and one is suprised to find that the ink used to scratch corrections on the page isn't blood-red.<br />This is yet another of King's great works, along the lines of THE STAND, CARRIE, THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION, and BAG OF BONES.  Constant Readers will enjoy it immensely, but new readers should as well.	2000-11-02
US	52810271	R3KQL33N2BD8MA	0345387651	394884897	The Cider House Rules	Books	4	12	13	N	N	A truly enjoyable book	I am a new fan of John Irving, having been introduced to his work by  watching the movie version of &quot;The Cider House Rules.&quot;  Having  seen the movie before reading the book, I was prepared to be disappointed  by the differences between them, but I found instead that Irving's book is  much more meaty than the movie, more human and more complicated than the  movie could ever have hoped to be.  The movie is still very good, but the  book is much more than good.<br />Dr. Wilbur Larch is a truly interesting  character, and Michael Caine was a perfect cast in the movie.  Irving's  character development is most obvious in the two main characters, Larch and  Homer Wells, especially his use of catchphrases and mantras specific to  personalities in his works.  Larch is enigmatic to the point of  frustration, subverting his desires and needs to those of &quot;the  children&quot; from the first page to the last.  His ether addiction is  never excused nor celebrated, as is the subject of abortion throughout the  story.<br />Homer Wells is another exciting character for Irving.  Here we  have a conflicted man, a human being, living with lies and half-truths his  entire life, breaking &quot;the rules&quot; while expecting others to live  by them in their own circumstances.  The movie version paints a much  different picture of Homer Wells; in the novel, Homer is much more complete  and MUCH more frustrating.<br />THE CIDER HOUSE RULES was a great read for me,  a book I devoured in a week without much effort on my part.  This is a good  American story, and I would recommend it to anyone looking for an honest  novel about real, conflicted, complicated people.	2000-09-07
US	52810271	R3EZY4ZK6LGOTB	0805420401	963630731	The Screwtape Letters: Also Includes "Screwtape Proposes a Toast	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Evil at its worst, Lewis at his best	In the last 100 years, there might not have been anyone who understood how to write devils like C.S. Lewis.  &quot;The Screwtape Letters&quot; is a  chilling foray into the world of Hell and its hierarchy of greed, deceit,  and decay.  Watching Wormwood and Screwtape's conversation descend into  outright carnality is breathtaking, especially when one realizes Lewis'  intent; to show the other end of the reality, that Christians are pursued  by demons but loved by God even more.  I read this book once a year and it  still has the power to freeze my bones and turn my stomach.	2000-08-06
US	52810271	RF6ST16A5QVMZ	0671045881	692650386	Hearts In Atlantis	Books	4	7	7	N	N	One of King's finest, certainly his most honest	One gets the sense that Stephen King is becoming more and more obsessed with honesty, and that Hearts in Atlantis, at least that novella of the same name within the collection, is intensely autobiographical fiction.  Some say they are disappointed that King is no longer writing scary  stories.  Others say that they are glad he's finally writing real stories.  I would say that he's writing both, and if you're not scared by the actions  of some of the characters in Hearts in Atlantis, you should be, because  those characters are every bit as human as you and I.<br />Low Men in Yellow  Coats is a coming-of-age story about Bobby Garfield.  For the first time,  Bobby has to make adult decisions, and like many of us, his decisions are  made poorly and people suffer because of it.  Saying more would give away  the plot, but this is most likely the best of the stories in the  collection.<br />A close vote for best would be the novella from which the  collection takes its name, Hearts in Atlantis.  Tracking the downward  spiral an entire dormitory floor takes in the late '60's at the University  of Maine, King tells a story which so many college survivors can  appreciate.  But again, the main character comes of age through his first  sexual partner and a chance to defy the powers that be.<br />Blind Willie  doesn't seem to fit, but it is a tale of greed and complete moral descent  which may epitomize many of the people of King's generation, who sold out  peace and love for BMW's and Armani suits.  The madness to Willie's method,  however, is an interesting look at his psychological state of mind.<br />Why  We're in Vietnam continues the melancholy, despairing theme established in  Low Men in Yellow Coats.  Sully-John, Bobby Garfield's friend from Harwich,  is not a Chevy salesman attending the funeral of a fellow platoon member  from Vietnam.  His companion, however, haunts him all the way  home.<br />&quot;Heavenly Shades of Night Are Falling&quot; is King's wrap-up  piece, in several ways.  Bobby Garfield reappears, as do other characters  from the collection.  The sense of hope which still remains after all else  is gone is a familiar theme for King fans, and King's brutal eloquence,  honesty, and faith shine especially bright here.  Friends and lovers always  have a connection, according to King, even if the continent which birthed  it has sunk below the sea.piece, in several ways.  Bobby Garfield reappears, as do other characters  from the collection.  The sense of hope which still remains after all else  is gone is a familiar theme for King fans, and King's brutal eloquence,  honesty, and faith shine especially bright here.  Friends and lovers always  have a connection, according to King, even if the continent which birthed  it has sunk below the sea.	2000-07-02
US	52810271	RN68VKWXH4L3V	038529929X	313045692	Hannibal: A Novel	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Stars for elegance, penalties for repugnance.	Thomas Harris is such an exquisite writer.  Reading his work is like sampling fine wine at the ritziest place in town with the most elegant partner available:  you know you're with someone who has a lot of class and  style, but is restrained enough not to flaunt it.<br />Anyone who can make  this story seem elegant is a master.  The plot is not so good, the descent  of Lecter and Starling is frankly disturbing, and the fact that Lecter is  not the most ghoulish character in the story is a cause for concern on the  behalf of the author at times.  Harris has outdone himself this time -- I  don't consider myself extremely squeamish but I grimaced in disgust many  times during this novel.  While I enjoyed the prose for its lucid  brilliance, the story left me queasy when finished.  Read at your own risk.	2000-07-02
US	52810271	R2G1DZLQJVE0HD	0806623152	12593047	Luther the Reformer	Books	4	41	43	N	N	A fine starting point for Luther studies	Kittleson's concise treatment of the life and work of Martin Luther is a wonderful starting point for those interested in knowing more about Luther who are NOT interested in minute detail.  Kittleson covers the major  writings, the famous &quot;here I stand&quot; moments, and all the other  basics to understanding Luther and his beliefs.  While this is not as in  depth as Oberman or Erikson's treatments, it is informative and well-though  out, put together in a manner which reads easily and stays in your head  permanently, a must for seminarians and others who read quickly and forget  even faster.  Kittleson has done a marvelous job presenting Luther here; I  highly recommend this book for others.	2000-07-02
US	52810271	R10VJ4H9997Z7B	0375704299	699405656	Goodnight, Nebraska	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Not depressing -- didn't you finish the book?	Some readers have said that this novel is a depressing look at small town life in Nebraska.  As a small town native of northeast Nebraska, I can tell you that while McNeal's treatment is very authentic, the story is not as  depressing as some would have you believe.  For those who live in these  small towns, life is routine, and they find comfort in it.  McNeal seems to  understand that though routine may be stifling at times, it is also helpful  to know that others will be there for you when your weak spots get pushed.<br />Goodnight, Nebraska is a haunting novel at times -- a tough look at life  on the plains of Nebraska.  Townspeople gossip, adulterers cheat on their  spouses, high school students fall in and out of love quickly, farmers work  and work and work to provide for their sometimes unappreciative families.  This is how things are in small towns.  But those who live there know that  while it's hard to get away, those who do get away often find themselves  coming home to where things happen as they're meant to happen.  McNeal  captures this 'optimistic fatalism' very well in Goodnight, Nebraska, and  those who can understand it don't find it depressing at all.	2000-07-02
US	52810271	R3BR9XES1ZLXPO	080284345X	809087641	On Being a Theologian of the Cross: Reflections on Luther's Heidelberg Disputation, 1518 (Theology)	Books	5	62	62	N	N	The Cross alone is our theology	Amazing - five years after beginning seminary and after two years of ordained ministry, I still believe that all Christians should read ON BEING A THEOLOGIAN OF THE CROSS.  This book was life-changing for me during a stormy first year of seminary; I still read it annually and find myself challenged and comforted by Dr. Forde's utter trust in the cross of Christ as proof that God will have mercy on sinners, even if it kills Him (and then the cross begins its work on us).<br /><br />Dr. Forde died this past fall after a lengthy battle with Parkinson's Disease.  I was one of several hundred Lutheran pastors who had the privilege of studying under Dr. Forde at Luther Seminary, and from personal experience I can tell you that the rapier wit and laser-like focus of OBTC are a reflection of the man who wrote the words.  For Christians, Forde always argued, seeking God away from the cross of Christ is dangerous because it is in the cross that God means to be found.<br /><br />Dr. Forde's radical work challenges us all in our addiction to salvation through good works, a false hope if ever there was one.  With brilliant clarity Forde makes the case that Luther made so radically in his own day:  that the cross alone saves, and it saves us as much from our ambitions as it does our sin.	2000-06-22
US	52810271	R7TWKC936KHU0	0553380958	445913	Snow Crash	Books	3	2	9	N	N	Worthy concept, poor execution	Snow Crash is an exciting novel, with a great premise and an interesting story line.  Technological descriptions are vivid and original; I especially like the futuristic wheels used by both Y.T. and Hiro P.<br />However, this book suffers from a chronologically fragmented beginning,  two plotlines which are horrendously slapped together, and a general sense  of being on shaky ground throughout.  Stephenson's bleak outlook on the  future is not the problem here; the problem is that the plotline is so  fractured and out of joint that the tale suffers greatly.  I wound up being  annoyed because whenever things got good with one character, the other main  character would bludgeoun his/her way in and ruin the plot.  It seems as if  Stephenson or his editor wrote the manuscript, cut it up between random  paragraphs, threw all the pieces in the air, and then reassembled with no  thought for continuity or flow.<br />I love the plot itself.  References to  Ancient Near Eastern religion and modern computer technology usually don't  mix well, but Stephenson can and does make it work.  The fragmented and  fractured plotline, however, is more a distraction than a successful  device.  Perhaps a second or third read will improve the experience; here's  hoping this is so.	2000-05-30
US	52810271	R3KABAP0RCRCPI	1565070917	101890010	International Inductive Study Bible: New American Standard Bible	Books	2	20	36	N	N	Good translation, bad construction	I am an M.Div. student who wanted to use the NASB because of its literal translation from the Greek and Hebrew.  I love the translation but I do not care for the construction of the IISB by Harvest House.  The book itself is  too large to fit easily in my bag, the pages are very flimsy (even for  Bible pages!), and the corners exhibited wear before I had even used the  thing for a week.  I can't find any covers to fit this massive book, and so  it is just falling apart before my eyes.  In addition, I do not agree with  the commentary used in connection with this particular Bible; it is a bit  too historically literal for my faith.  I would recommend this translation,  but not this particular production of it.  The only reason it gets a star  at all is due to the super margins, which leave tons of room for notes,  personal commentary, and other writings one would care to enter.	2000-05-08
US	52810271	R3UQDYAINAJEW9	0684823764	94824058	The Great Divorce	Books	5	10	12	N	N	More than afterlife philosophy	Lewis' The Great Divorce is a chilling story which goes deeper than it seems.  It is very easy to pass this little tale off as mere philosophy or &quot;thoughts on death&quot;; the truth is, this book is a warning against  those who think their &quot;story&quot; is neither good nor bad.  Lewis  doesn't leave much wiggle room in describing heaven:  it is a place so  substantial that it cuts and causes pain for those who don't realize the  wonder of it.  There isn't much solace in hell, either:  completely  reversed, hell has no substance at all.  In fact, its residents don't even  realize they are even in hell in the first place.  I believe Lewis  intended this to be a caveat against a lack of substance in one's life as  well as death.  Of course, Lewis and I are both Christian, so working  within that understanding, there is much more to be said.  But even for  non-believers, The Great Divorce is a commentary of great value, as many of  Lewis' works are.  In the end, it would seem that The Great Divorce isn't  about Heaven and Hell; it is about the great chasm between Life and Death  themselves.	2000-05-05
US	52810271	R1HYC6XCTS1NCU	0310236126	668177661	The Book of God: The Bible as a Novel	Books	5	104	105	N	N	Novelization adds to, does not detract from, the story	There is absolutely no way to ever tell the story of the Bible in a concise, perfectly edited, all encompassing manner.  What I love about Walter Wangerin's work with The Book of God is that he doesn't try to get  everything into the story.  This is a marvelously edited, fictionalized  version of the major points of the Bible, presented in a manner which  engages the reader and educates at the same time.  I have read this book  three times, and each time it has been a blessing to me.  THIS IS NOT A  NEW BIBLE!  Those who are looking for a readable version of the Bible  itself should try the Living Bible or another similar translation.  Wangerin's work here tells the story; it is not a translation, nor is it  canonical in any sense of the word.  It is, however, inspired by the story  of God acting in and through Creation, and in this understanding, I highly  recommend The Book of God to Christians and non-believers alike who wish to  get into the story of the Bible.	2000-05-05
US	52810271	R7PEQ3G1OZM7R	0517149257	458212829	The Ultimate Hitchhiker's Guide	Books	5	0	0	N	N	All the answers to Life, the Universe, and Everything	Douglas Adams' five-part trilogy (just that phrase says it all!) is one of the must reads of the 20th Century. I pick up this volume whenever I need a good laugh; as soon as Marvin the Paranoid Android gets rolling, or a Vogon starts reciting poetry, I'm belly laughing so hard I'm crying. If you've  ever been suspicious that the world is not as it seems, this is the book to  confirm all your suspicions and then blast them right out of the water.  Don't let this collection wind up being an SEP (Someone Else's Problem),  read it today!	2000-05-02
US	52810271	R2HB6ITCHDG9S6	0140119906	702863006	Love in the Time of Cholera (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A gripping, tragic story, but not a love story	Marquez has crafted a book which, in my opinion, deserves far more attention than it has gotten.  The fact that Love in the Time of Cholera has its ugly and human moments might contribute to the disappointment so many people register when reading it.  I thoroughly enjoyed it, however,  because the people were passionate, exceptionally real, and because it was  especially descriptive of the disappointments and shocking realizations  that come with marriage.  I especially enjoyed the observations made  regarding Juvenal Urbino's bathroom habits; this kind of thing happens to  real people, but no one ever addresses it.  Marquez has done so.  He has  combined passion with decadence, one man's almost bestial sexual life with  a pure, undying love, and in the process I was mesmerized and enjoyed it  immensely.	2000-04-26
US	52810271	RTPZ375TWU7Z0	0811213463	922397383	The Samurai (New Directions Classic)	Books	5	21	22	N	N	A gloriously honorable tragedy	One of the biggest surprises I have received in the last year was &quot;The Samurai&quot;, for good reason.  Though it starts slowly, this novel is a gripping tale of determination, sacrifice, honor, deceit, and  love, following a group of three Japanese noblemen and a Spanish priest in  their trek from Japan to Rome.  The priest hopes to be declared Bishop of  Japan in order to oversee the missionary effort in that country, and is  willing to sacrifice almost anything to conquer the religious intolerance  of Japan at the time.  The noblemen are trying to regain family lands by  succeeding in their mission to establish trade between Japan and Nueva  Espana.  I could not put this novel down once the quest began, and I nearly  wept as I finished it.  I highly recommend this novel to one and all.	2000-01-17
US	52810271	R35W7XXKTFLFF1	0840734247	858312016	A Skeleton in God's Closet	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Religious/Archaeological/Historical Thriller!	As a Classics student a few years ago, I read 'Skeleton' and immediately  began telling all my fellow students and professors about it.  What an  incredible read, for believers and non-believers alike:  exacting  historical background, intricate analysis of the languages and dating  methods involved in Classic Archaeology, and yet this doesn't become bogged  down with the scholarly items.  The only part that was awkward was any  section dealing with romance, but there's so little it doesn't present a  problem.  This is a fantastic read, suspenseful to the very end, and caused  me to take a good hard look at how I might react if it weren't fiction.  I  would highly recommend this book to anyone.	1998-10-19
