US	52816461	R320GG0CJ5HMRR	0415093384	389326620	Arguing for Atheism: An Introduction to the Philosophy of Religion	Books	5	12	14	N	N	An exemplary text on atheism	In his book \\"Arguing for Atheism\\", Le Poidevin has accomplished what few authors have succeeded in; he has written a powerful but thoroughly respectful criticism of theology.  This is far and away the finest book I have ever read on atheism.  Le Poidevin introduces each theistic argument as fairly and thoroughly as possible, often overlooking inconsequential flaws, and even offering modified arguments that overcome such flaws.  He then proceeds to examine each argument in depth, exposing both valid points and flaws.  As the title of the book suggests, however, precious few theistic arguments are found to withstand scrutiny. <br /> <br />What sets this book apart from other books that critically examine theology is that Le Poidevin clearly has no interest in securing cheap victories over ill-conceived apologetics; rather, his aim is to examine the most cogent theistic arguments that can be constructed, even if he must lend a hand in bolstering them, which he does with humility and earnestness. <br /> <br />This book is a model of how apologetics and its criticism ought to be conducted.  I wish more authors on both sides of the debate would follow his lead.  This is the book I most wish that religionists would read and atheists would emulate, both for its penetrating criticism and for its exemplary tone.	2004-12-11
US	52816461	R3AG0HVD72VBXB	0471272426	111524112	The Skeptic's Dictionary: A Collection of Strange Beliefs, Amusing Deceptions, and Dangerous Delusions	Books	4	127	149	N	N	Informed, measured, and warranted skepticism	Robert Carroll has compiled an impressive collection of short articles defining and explaining ideas that warrant careful critical examination; that is, ideas deserving a thorough going over by a thoroughgoing skeptic.  Carroll pulls no punches in his criticism of whacky cultish ideas, yet he does not brazenly skewer all sacred cows.  Rather, he sets out to expose a wide range of ideas to the light of healthy skepticism, exposing blatant charades for what they are, explicating ideas that are often misconstrued or irrationally rejected, and casting doubt where doubt is due.  I believe he largely succeeds in these endeavors.<br />The book is organized like a dictionary with an alphabetical listing of various words that Carroll sets out to explore in depth.  I think the book is better described as an encyclopedia, however, because of the length and style of the articles, which are not terse definitions, but mini-essays.  Here is a sampling of the &quot;A&quot; words to give you an idea of the range of topics that Carroll addresses: acupuncture, agnosticism, alien abductions, ancient astronauts, angel therapy, anthroposophy, argument from design, argument to ignorance, aromatherapy, astral projection, astrology, atheism, automatic writing, and avatar.  (This is roughly one third of the entries under &quot;A&quot;).  Even within this short list there are some whacky ideas (angel therapy and alien abductions), some borderline ideas (acupuncture and anthroposophy), and some words that are simply in want of a careful definition (agnosticism, atheism, and avatar).  Carroll deals with them all rather even-handedly, at least from the perspective of a naturalistic worldview. Other topics covered in the book include Bible codes, Bigfoot, chiropractic, confirmation bias, crystal power, ESP, holistic medicine, karma, levitation, magnet therapy, miracles, Noah's Ark, etc.  I think Carroll did a rather good job in selecting his topics as they cover such a panoply of beliefs; he is just as likely to find fault with one cult as any other.<br />With respect to Carroll's intentions, as he states in the introduction, &quot;this book is a Davidian counterbalance to the Goliath of occult literature.  I hope that an occasional missile hits its mark.&quot;  Thus, Carroll apparently intends to instill a bit of healthy skepticism into those minds willing to accept it.  And who might that be?  Carroll identifies his intended audience as those uncommitted to occult claims (open-minded seekers), those who believe in them but have doubts (believing doubters), those who are more prone toward doubt than belief (soft-skeptics), and those who strongly disbelieve in occult ideas (hardened-skeptics).  But, &quot;The one group this book is not aimed at is the 'true believer' in the occult.  If you have no skepticism in you, this book is not for you.&quot;  I suspect that Carroll is quite right in his assessment; if you are an ardent believer in any of the cultish ideas that Carroll debunks, then you are unlikely to find his arguments compelling; The reason for that, of course, remains open to debate.<br />Here are a few short snippets from Carroll's entries.  Under &quot;acupuncture,&quot; Carroll first describes the history of the technique, its variants, and the types of claims made for it.  His brief analysis suggests that there is little reason to believe that the anecdotal successes of the technique amount to anything more than regression toward the mean.  In Carroll's words, &quot;An alternative treatment such as acupuncture is sought only when the pain is near its most severe level.  Natural regression will lead to the pain becoming less once it has reached its maximum level of severity.&quot;  Under &quot;agnostic,&quot; Carroll carefully defines the often-misunderstood word, explaining that &quot;The agnostic holds that human knowledge is limited to the natural world, that the mind is incapable of knowledge of the supernatural.  Understood this way, an agnostic could be either a theist or an atheist.&quot;  Under &quot;numerology,&quot; Carroll explores the idea of ascertaining a person's characteristics from numerical data based on name and birth date, and exposes it as a total sham.  He links the perceived success of numerology to the &quot;Forer effect&quot;, which he defines in another entry as &quot;The tendency to accept vague and general personality descriptions as uniquely applicable to oneself without realizing that the same description could be applied to just about anyone.&quot;<br />This is a fun book to read, both because of its wide range of topics, and because of Carroll's no-nonsense pragmatic approach.  I hope that the book will cajole at least a small minority of readers into critically examining some of the outlandish beliefs that surround us, and to wisely insist on something more than anecdotal evidence, wishful thinking, or arguments from ignorance before accepting them.	2003-09-16
US	52816461	R1U04O1MU0B4P9	0801854148	192291532	Matrix Computations (Johns Hopkins Studies in Mathematical Sciences)(3rd Edition)	Books	5	32	34	N	N	Got Matrices?	This is one of the definitive texts on computational linear algebra, or more specifically, on matrix computations.  The term &quot;matrix computations&quot; is actually the more apt name because the book focuses on computational issues involving matrices,the currency of linear algebra, rather than on linear algebra in the abstract. As an example of this distinction, the authors develop both &quot;saxpy&quot; (scalar &quot;a&quot; times vector &quot;x&quot; plus vector &quot;y&quot;) based algorithms and &quot;gaxpy&quot; (generalized saxpy, where &quot;a&quot; is a matrix) based algorithms, which are organized to exploit very efficient low-level matrix computations.  This is an important organizing concept that can lead to more efficient matrix algorithms.<br />For each important algorithm discussed, the authors provide a concise and rigorous mathematical development followed by crystal clear pseudo-code.  The pseudo-code has a Pascal-like syntax, but with embedded Matlab abbreviations that make common low-level matrix operations extremely easy to express.  The authors also use indentation rather than tedious BEGIN-END notation, another convention that makes the pseudo-code crisp and easy to understand. I have found it quite easy to code up various algorithms from the pseudo-code descriptions given in this book.  The authors cover most of the traditional topics such as Gaussian elimination, matrix factorizations (LU, QR, and SVD), eigenvalue problems (symmetric and unsymmetric), iterative methods, Lanczos method, othogonalization and least squares (both constrained and unconstrained), as well as basic linear algebra and error analysis.<br />I've use this book extensively during the past ten years.  It's an invaluable resource for teaching numerical analysis (which invariably includes matrix computations), and for virtually any research that involves computational linear algebra.  If you've got matrices, chances are you will appreciate having this book around.	2003-08-01
US	52816461	R1NESVHDNKYH6B	1568810636	583118820	A = B	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Witty + Concise + Useful = Excellent	This book is a refreshingly witty and concise look at--of all things--hypergeometric identities.  If you have never heard of a binomial coefficient, or shudder at the thought of a double factorial, of fail to see what's so special about special functions, then you are unlikely to derive much pleasure from this volume. On the other hand, if you've encountered gamma functions, Catalan numbers, and Grobner bases, and would delight in discovering deep connections among such vastly different ideas, or if you have wondered how computers can be used to discover or verify monstrous combinatorial identities, then you've stumbled upon a book that is sure to become a favorite.<br />This book introduces the idea of hypergeometric function, the Swiss army knife of combinatorial mathematics, and proceeds to develop algorithms for their computation as well as numerous applications. The authors also reveal what, exactly, computers can help us to decide, what is a &quot;closed form&quot; solution, what are &quot;canonical&quot; and &quot;normal&quot; forms, and inject relevant philosophical digressions that keep the discussions lively and entertaining. The authors also present snippets of &quot;Mathematica&quot; code so that you can try out many of the basic operations yourself.<br />The book has concise chapters on Sister Celine's method, Gosper's algorithm, Zeilberger's algorithm, and the WZ algorithm, with sufficient detail that you will likely be able to apply the algorithms yourself (perhaps by downloading the Mathematica packages that the authors point you to). The techniques are invaluable in proving identities in combinatorial mathematics; that is, identities involving binomial coefficients, factorials, rational functions, etc. By means of such techniques, computers &quot;not only find proofs of known identities, they also find completely new identities.  Lots of them.  Some very pretty.  Some not so pretty but very useful.  Some neither pretty nor useful, in which case we humans can ignore them.&quot;<br />This is a well-written and highly accessible book about an important (albeit very narrow and specialized) branch of mathematics.  If you have little experience with hypergeometric functions, yet deal with combinatorial mathematics, you will likely read this book in one (long) sitting; and you'll be glad you did.	2003-07-24
US	52816461	RVPARTV00ET3W	0132624788	39023766	Elements of the Theory of Computation (2nd Edition)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A classic text on the theory of computation.	Elements of the Theory of Computation, by Lewis and Papadimitriou, is something of a classic in the theory of computation. Of the many books I have used to teach the theory of computation, this is the one I have been most satisfied with.  It covers all of the fundamental concepts one would expect in such a book (more on this below) but offers a bit more mathematical rigor than most other books I've seen on this topic.  It also covers one topic that is rarely even mentioned in other textbooks: the composition of Turing machines.<br />The book begins with a brief introduction to the relevant discrete mathematics (such as set theory and cardinality) and proof techniques, then introduces the concepts of finite automata, regular expressions, and regular languages, describing their interrelationships. It proceeds to context-free languages, pushdown automata, parse trees, pumping lemmas, Turing machines, undecidability, computational complexity, and the theory of NP-completeness.  (These are all standard topics.) Along the way, Lewis and Papadimitriou also introduce random access Turing machines and recursive functions,  and do a nice job of explaining the halting problem and how this translates into undecidable problems involving grammars, various questions about Turing machines, and even two-dimensional tiling problems. All of these topics are covered with an appropriate mix of formalism and intuition. <br />Perhaps the feature I like best is the discussion of composing simple Turing machines to obtain more complex and interesting machines.  The authors even introduce a convenient graphical notation for combining Turing machines and spell out specific rules for composition. While most authors are forced to immediately employ heuristics in reasoning about complex Turing machines (lest the notation become overwhelming), Lewis and Papadimitriou are able to keep the discussion more formal and structured by virtue of their Turing machine &quot;schema&quot;.  I believe this makes their arguments more rigorous and even easier to follow.<br />This is clearly one of the best books on the theory of computation. However, be aware that there have been very significant changes from the first edition, which was lengthier and more thorough.  I confess that I actually prefer the first edition, as it contains nice sections on logic and predicate calculus (which have been removed from the 2nd edition), and is a bit more formal (albeit with some fairly awful notation). The 2nd edition is definitely crisper, with much cleaner notation; it is clearly more student-friendly, which was presumably the aim of the new edition.  <br />If you wish to teach an introduction to theoretical computer science, or wish to learn it on your own, this would be a fine book to use. It's hard to go wrong with this classic.	2003-07-24
US	52816461	RNTX4KRREYJ1P	0684853949	358452686	The Man Who Mistook His Wife For A Hat: And Other Clinical Tales	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Hang on to your right hemisphere!	This is one of the most entertaining and thought provoking books I've read in a while.  Oliver Sacks has done a marvelous job of illustrating just how mysterious and tenuous our perception of the world is by relating stories about patients who have suffered some kind of injury to the right hemisphere of their brains. Why the &quot;right&quot; hemisphere?  As Sacks explains, the left hemisphere has a fairly comprehensible role; it seems to follow rules. When it does not function appropriately, the consequences are reasonably predictable.  &quot;Indeed, the entire history of neurology and neuropsychology can be seen as a history of the investigation of the left hemisphere.&quot;<br />In contrast, the right hemisphere has been something of an enigma, and is consequently called the 'minor' hemisphere. But, &quot;it is the right hemisphere which controls the crucial powers of recognizing reality which every living creature must have in order to survive.&quot; For example, the right hemisphere is responsible for &quot;proprioception&quot;, which allows us to feel our bodies as &quot;proper to us&quot;; that they belong to us.  This is so basic that it is difficult to even imagine what it would be like to have impaired proprioception. Sacks is keenly aware of this challenge; in a sense, the entire book is an attempt to give us a glimpse into such an incomprehensible world.<br />Sacks quotes Wittgenstein:, &quot;The aspects of things that are most important for us are hidden because of their simplicity and familiarity. (One is unable to notice something because it is always before one's eyes.)&quot; Those things that are most basic, most obvious, have a deeply mysterious foundation in the brain.  One can begin to appreciate this when one considers those unfortunate individuals who have lost some of these basic perceptions due to injury or illness. As Sacks points out in the introduction, &quot;It is not only difficult, it is impossible, for patients with certain right-hemisphere syndromes to know their own problems...  And it is singularly difficult, even for the most sensitive observer, to picture the inner state, the 'situation', of such patients, for this is almost unimaginably remote from anything he himself has ever known.&quot;<br />Sacks presents detailed and compassionate accounts of numerous patients whose worlds are indeed unimaginably remote from our own. He tells us of patients who have difficulty distinguishing between people and inanimate objects, those who have perfect &quot;vision&quot; yet cannot discern the purpose of an object without tactile feedback, those who fail to recognize their own limbs as belonging to them, and those who have lost fundamental spatial concepts, such as the distinction between left and right. One of the most intriguing cases that Sacks presents is that of a woman who had &quot;totally lost the idea of 'left', both with regard to the world and her own body,&quot; a condition known as hemi-inattention. To this woman, everything in her left visual field simply ceased to exist, in analogy to the way each of us fills the blind spots in our visual field.  This unfortunate woman would eat half her lunch (that on the right side of her tray) and was incapable of turning to the left (since left did not exist) to discover what remained. In time, she learned to turn herself around, always to the right, until she found the rest of her lunch. <br />This book is not only engrossing, it is challenging; it forces one to acknowledge that what we take as so plainly obvious about the world is intimately tied to basic brain function.  Oliver Sacks demonstrates beautifully that the brain is still deeply mysterious, particularly in how it creates our sense of reality. There are profound implications here for those interested in psychology and philosophy. It's a great read.	2003-07-24
US	52816461	R2U4I7TI3KKSA5	0486428753	926925931	Counterexamples in Analysis (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	5	249	252	N	N	Great for the coffee table	It can happen to anybody.  There you are, minding your own business, when the though hits you: Does every continuous function have a derivative somewhere?  You try to prove that it must.  It sure seems like it must.  How could it not?  Hours slip by, and you've made no progress.  What do you do?  You pick up Gelbaum and Olmsted's classic &quot;Counterexamples in Analysis&quot;. There on page 38 is an example of a continuous function that has no derivative; none; anywhere.  No wonder you couldn't prove it.<br />It turns out that questions of the form &quot;Does A always imply B?&quot; entail proofs with two very different flavors, depending on whether the answer is affirmative or negative.  The affirmative variety can be very difficult, as it usually deals with an infinity of things. But a negative answer requires only one solitary example of an A that is not a B; this is affectionately known as a &quot;counter-example&quot;.  These are the slickest little proofs around--often a one liner--and they can provide a lot of insight.  Here's a trickier one: Are all linear functions continuous? Surprisingly, the answer is &quot;no&quot;, which means there is a counter-example.  Gelbaum and Olmsted show how to construct a discontinuous linear function.  Case closed. They also provide examples of<br />A perfect nowhere dense set<br />A linear function space that is a lattice but not an algebra<br />A connected compact set that is not an arc<br />A divergent series whose general term approaches zero<br />A nonuniform limit of bounded functions that is not bounded<br />I won't give away any more (although there are hundreds). The book has chapters on real numbers, functions and limits, differentiation, sequences, infinite series, set and measure on the real axis, functions of two variables, metric and topological spaces, and more.  Each section begins with a brief summary of the basic concepts and definitions, then launches into a list of terse counter-examples.  This is simplyindispensable for students of mathematical analysis, as it can help to explain why you cannot weaken those seemingly stringent hypotheses to various theorems; if you do, one of these quirky counter-examples will rush in and ruin your day. This is a great book to have on hand.  I highly recommend it. (I won't tell you how it ends.)	2003-07-23
US	52816461	R30BRTOBSCUD2O	0140236031	707877407	The Penguin Book of Curious and Interesting Mathematics (Penguin mathematics)	Books	3	12	12	N	N	epsilon math humor, where epsilon &gt; 0.	This is a book of mathematical fragments; that is, short self-contined blurbs involving mathematics or mathematicians.  The blurbs include puzzles, limericks, anecdotes about famous mathematicians or mathematics teachers, famous theorems, tiny biographies, and interesting observations.  Most are a single paragraph long, and nearly all are less than a page.  Some are fascinating and some are not so fascinating.  Some are quite amusing, and some are very dry. A few actually have some real mathematical content. The vast majority of them assume some mathematical acumen, such as familiarity with famous theorems or mathematicians, or knowledge of concepts such as a Taylor series. To give you and idea of what you will find in this book, I've picked three very different entries:<br />1) Here is a typical amusing anecdote: &quot;G. H. Hardy was about to return from Denmark to England, by boat, in appalling weather.  So he sent a postcard ahead to announce to the world that 'I have proved Riemann's Hypothesis', which was then as now the Holy Grail of professional mathematicians. Hardy reasoned that God (in whom Hardy did not profess to believe) would not allow the boat to sink, thereby leaving open the suspicion that Hardy had achieved this remarkable feat.&quot;<br />2) Here is a limerick by Paul Halmos, a famed contemporary mathematician:<BR>&quot;If you think that your paper is vacuous,<BR>Use the first-order functional calculus,<BR>It then becomes logic,<BR>And, as if by magic,<BR>The obvious is hailed as miraculous.&quot;<br />3) Here is an example of a puzzle with some actual mathematical content: &quot;A medical researcher does a carefully controlled experiment whose result is that new medicine X is more effective on male patients than a placebo.  The experiment is then repeated on female subjects, with the same result...  The data from the two experiments are then added together, and they prove that overall the medicine is LESS effective then the placebo.  Is this possible? Yes.&quot; [explanation provided in the back of the book]<br />While I like the idea of this book, and found a few entries that were really funny or interesting, over all I thought the collection was mediocre.  It can be fun, if you are in to math, but don't expect too much.  It's very light stuff.	2003-07-23
US	52816461	R2G7KYCJIOUT4B	0345315367	51275601	Murmurs of Earth: The Voyager Interstellar Record	Books	5	20	21	N	N	A message in a bottle.	If you had to sum up what Earth is like, what would you say? How would you describe the abundance and diversity of life? How would you summarize all the achievements of mankind? Now, suppose that you were asked to communicate this information to someone who does not speak your language, nor indeed any language that you have ever heard of. Suppose, further, that your audience is apt to interpret pictures, sounds, or symbols in ways that you could not even begin to anticipate. Finally, suppose that this communication must take place via a \\"message in a bottle\\", sent off into space, to wash up on some distant \\"shore\\", at some inconceivably distant time in the future.<br />Does this sound far fetched? Well, it shouldn't. This very exercise was carried out in the mid-seventies by a team of scientists with a unique opportunity to send such a message off into space on a pair of spacecraft; the two Viking probes, launched in 1977, that were deployed to explore Jupiter and Saturn. On each of the probes was a gold-plated \\"phonograph record\\" that contained a succinct summary of Earth and humanity. The significance of these particular probes was that they were destined to head off into boundless space at the conclusion of their mission. Thus, they were to become the first man-made artifacts to leave the solar system. This was too fantastic an opportunity to miss; \\"we\\" (humans) simply had to send a greeting card to whomever/whatever may find the probes.<br />This book lists and discusses all of the images, sounds, diagrams, and symbols that are recorded on the cosmic greeting cards. There are images of sea shells, plants, trees, insects, buildings, mountains, machines, and most of all, people: people dancing, laughing, talking, eating, and working. There are even cross-sectional illustrations of human anatomy. And there are recordings of greetings in 44 different languages, not to mention songs of humpback whales. All carefully chosen; all with some rationale. As these images, diagrams, and sounds were being assembled the most vexing of all questions had to be asked: How could an alien being stand a chance of decoding the disk? This was a fascinating and crucial scientific question for which several very creative solutions were offered, and all are recorded in this book. Of course, we will never have the opportunity to discover whether these solutions will work, which places them somewhat beyond the ken of science. <br />Ultimately, the main byproduct of the project was sincere reflection and introspection; it was rightly seen by all participants as a celebration of Earth, its history, and the fabulous diversity of humanity. While the chances that one of the greeting cards will be discovered and correctly interpreted are remote, their very composition was of intrinsic value to humanity in the here and now. I found this book, and the entire project, to be extremely uplifting. Etched on a golden disk, headed to who-knows-where, is a remarkable encapsulation of who we are. It's a wonderful example of science engendering deep contemplation, and drawing upon poetry and art. I'm very happy that this project was recorded so carefully in book form. It's a great story.	2003-07-15
US	52816461	R2VOB72AHGVBBQ	0393969975	846848903	DIV, Grad, Curl, and All That: An Informal Text on Vector Calculus	Books	5	131	133	N	N	A must for engineering and science students.	If you are an undergraduate engineering or science major, then you need to get a copy of this old classic and become good friends with it.  If you are a graduate student or a professional in some branch of engineering or science, and you have not already read this book, then sneak out and get a copy before anybody finds out. (You can pretend that you really knew this stuff all along.)  Seriously, this book should be considered Math 101 for scientists and engineers.  You simply cannot get by without knowing the basics of vector calculus, curvilinear coordinates, Gauss' law, Stokes' theorem, and of course, the protagonists Divergence, Gradient, and Curl, known to their friends as Div, Grad, and Curl.<br />This is about as tame a book on vector calculus as you could ever hope to meet, which is part of the reason it's been so popular for so long.  It's very easy to read (as far as math texts go), it has many simple but effective illustrations, it has ample exercises (most of which have solutions in the back), and it avoids excessive formalism, instead focusing on the nuts-and-bolts of vector calculus as it most commonly arises in electrostatics, for example.<br />Math majors will not be so enamored of this book, simply because of its heuristic approach (hence the word \\"informal\\" in the subtitle) and its close ties with applications, which it uses as motivation. Moreover, Schey does not develop differential forms or exterior calculus, which logically subsume and extend the material in this book (at the expense of far greater abstraction, which the majority of engineering and science students will prefer to avoid or at least delay).  Instructors, if you teach electrostatics or fluid dynamics, you may wish to consider having this as a supplementary text for your students.  It's such a clear and helpful little book your students will really appreciate it.  (But, you already knew that.)<br />Bottom line for engineering and science students: You need to know this material, and it simply won't get any easier than this.  Don't wait for the audio edition!	2003-07-15
US	52816461	ROATPWQKULUXG	0809058405	246141487	Innumeracy: Mathematical Illiteracy and Its Consequences	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The consequences of numerical ineptitude	This is one of those books I wish everyone would read. In this wonderful and very readable little book, John Allen Paulos addresses an ever-growing but little-acknowledged problem: the pervasiveness of &quot;innumeracy&quot;, a sibling malady of illiteracy. Paulos defines innumeracy as &quot;an inability to deal comfortably with the fundamental notions of number and chance...&quot;, and I can safely say, without much fear of contradiction, that it afflicts the vast majority of the human race.<br />But why is it a problem? What does it matter if people get a little confused over numbers and probabilities? Well, just consider how many important decisions we are faced with, almost on a daily basis, that involve numbers and probabilities. Nearly all political discussions these days involve mention of millions, billions, or even trillions of dollars, so it would be prudent to have some familiarity with those concepts. Nearly all discussions of product safety and drug efficacy involve the results or studies, which require some understanding of probability and statistics. Yet another reason to get a grip on numerical reasoning, Paulos claims, is that innumeracy is linked with belief in pseudoscience and other outright nonsense. As Paulos points out, &quot;...a significant portion of our adult population still believes in Tarot cards, channeling mediums, and crystal power.&quot; With a bit more quantitative savvy, these ruses would not hold sway.<br />Paulos writes in a very engaging style, although he admits at the outset that &quot;Because the book is largely concerned with various inadequacies--a lack of numerical perspective, an exaggerated appreciation for meaningless coincidence, a credulous acceptance of pseudosciences, an inability to recognize social trade-offs, and so on--much of the writing has a debunking flavor to it.&quot; Yet, Paulos's method of debunking is friendly and even comical. He typically uses social scenarios to make his points. For example, he relates the following story: &quot;...we were watching the news, and the TV weathercaster announced that there was a 50 percent chance of rain for Saturday and a 50 percent chance of rain for Sunday, and concluded that there was therefore a 100 percent chance of rain that weekend.&quot; Paulos notes that he had to explain the error to others who were listening to the weathercaster; and even then, one of the listeners &quot;wasn't nearly as indignant as he would have been had the weathercaster left a dangling participle.&quot; Given the generally sad state of literacy in this country, anecdotes like this should make one wonder just how deplorable the state of numeracy is.<br />If you are looking for a friendly and readable book that will help you to make sense of the ever-increasing use of numerical data and probabilistic thinking that is appearing in public discussions of all forms, I recommend this book very highly. If you are yourself a &quot;numerate&quot; person (perhaps even an instructor of mathematics), it behooves you to understand just how ill-prepared the majority of our population is to deal with such reasoning; you need to know what you are up against. It will shock you.	2003-07-14
US	52816461	R1L5QGEAZIK7PP	0471028657	377511761	Graph Coloring Problems	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A concise catalog of theorems and conjectures.	This is a highly technical book that gathers together in one medium-sized volume (less than 300 pages) hundreds of new and classical theorems and conjectures on every conceivable type of graph coloring problem. It is primarily a mathematical treatment in Theorem-Proof style, although the proofs are left to the references (otherwise the book would have been enormous). The book consists of many short sections, each one often less than a page, formally stating a theorem or a conjecture, then briefly summarizing what is known about it, and where the results have been published. As the authors state in the preface, &quot;We did not intend to write a textbook to be read from beginning to end, but rather a catalog suitable for browsing&quot;. It seems they have achieved what was intended; it's quite interesting to simply browse through this book.<br />To give you an idea of the level of the discussion in the text, here is an excerpt from page 1: After a terse definition of vertex coloring and &quot;chromatic number&quot;, the authors state that &quot;The existence of the chromatic number follows from the Well-Ordering Theorem of set theory... However, even if it is not assumed that every set has a well-ordering, but maintaining the property that every set has a cardinality, then the statement 'Any finite or infinite graph has a chromatic number' is equivalent to the Axiom of Choice...&quot;. If you are unfamiliar with concepts such as well-ordering or the axiom of choice, such a discussion will be of little value to you. However, if you are familiar with these ideas, you will appreciate how quickly the authors jump into meaty discussions.  As another example, the chapter on planar graphs begins with a number of excellent questions: &quot;Does there exist a short proof of the four-color theorem...?&quot;, &quot;Is there a short argument to demonstrate that the four-color problem is a finite problem?&quot;, and &quot;Is there a short argument that proves the existence of a polynomial algorithm to decide if a given planar graph if 4-colorable?&quot;, to mention three. The chapter then proceeds to discuss what is currently know about these problems, and many others.<br />I suspect that the book would be of great interest not only to mathematicians but also computer scientists, as there are numerous discussions/problems on computational complexity. For example, &quot;Does there exist a function g and a polynomial algorithm that for any given input graph G will find a number s, such that the chromatic number of G satisfies s &lt;= X(G) &lt;= g(s)?&quot; (Here X(G) is the chromatic number of graph G.) The authors state that the question was answered affirmatively by Alon in 1993 if X(G) is replaced by &quot;list-chromatic number&quot;. This is typical of the problems cataloged in this book: a terse but formally correct statement of a problem followed by what is currently know, with full citations.<BR> <BR>The bibliography at the end of each section is extensive, if not daunting, so there should be little problem looking up all relevant literature concerning a given problem. The authors have also set up an on-line archive for up-to-the-minute research results on these problems. This is an excellent reference for those who are interested in serious research in graph coloring. I would not recommend it to undergraduates in computer science or mathematics, nor to those seeking accessible discussions of classic graph algorithms; this is not an introductory text.	2003-07-14
US	52816461	RGBJ3U2VC3UU7	1564553078	395058800	The Future of God	Books	4	42	42	N	N	Speculation by an eminent historian of monotheistic religion	This audio tape is an exploration of monotheistic religions, written and read by Karen Armstrong, the author of numerous scholarly and well-received books on monotheism (&quot;A History of God&quot;, &quot;The Battle for God&quot;, &quot;Islam: A Short History&quot;). Unlike Armstrong's previous works, &quot;The Future of God&quot; does not focus exclusively on the historical development of monotheistic religions, but it also contains intriguing speculation as to what may lay ahead, extrapolating from their rich past. I can think of no better qualified person to engage in such speculation than Karen Armstrong; to have any credibility in predicting the future, one must have a clear grasp of the past.<br />As always, Armstrong counterbalances the ethnocentric Western view of religion with contrasting views from Islam, Judaism, and even Buddhism. She reminds her Western listeners that idea of a god who is objective and exists outside ourselves is somewhat peculiar to the West, and is even &quot;eccentric&quot; when compared to Judaism, Islam, and Greek and Russian orthodoxy.<br />An important theme that runs throughout the tape is that of change; while most adherents of a religion view their creed as essentially fixed, having been revealed in effectively its final and current form, Armstrong continually reminds us that this is a complete fiction. Each of the major religions has undergone enormous transformations over time, and are indeed still in the process of change. For example, Armstrong points out that many of the early prophets were actually polytheists; while they chose to worship a single god, they fully acknowledged the existence of others. Also, the notion of a personal god, with human traits, is a relatively late addition.<br />Armstrong argues that the idea of a personal god has been useful in the early stages of a religion, but that it ultimately proves to be problematic and limiting; that it must eventually be abandoned for more abstract and mystical notions. This leads to Armstrong's most unexpected--even startling--proposal; that modern atheism is potentially a prelude to a new religious outlook with an even deeper appreciation for god. She likens atheism to a sorbet that cleanses the palette in preparation for more delicious things to come. Armstrong notes that &quot;If we look back at history, we'll see that when people were called atheists this usually marked a religious transition, one of those quantum leaps to an entirely new era of religiosity and spirituality. Thus, in the early stages of their history, Jews, Christians, and Muslims were all called atheists by their pagan contemporaries, not because they didn't believe in god (obviously they did), but because they denied current conceptions of the sacred that were dear to the pagan world.&quot; <br />As the initiators of all religious movements, throughout history, were castigated as atheists, might we not reason that the atheists of today are in fact at the vanguard of a new epoch of religious views? A fascinating idea, to be sure. Indeed, on might view Secular Humanism as such a movement, although Armstrong does not make that connection explicitly.<br />Perhaps my only complaint about the tape is that it lacks the traditional references that allow a reader to explore the background material to a greater depth. Admittedly, this is rather hard to do on an audio tape, yet there were times when a brief pointer to the relevant literature would have been extremely helpful. As one example, Armstrong states categorically that the book of Genesis is a myth, and that it was quite deliberately written as such. As this is a topic of heated debate (at least in the US), it would have been appropriate for Armstrong to mention the evidence or body of work that, in her view, establishes this fact.<br />I found Armstrong's ideas to be quite thought provoking, so I feel the tape is well worth the cost. I believe that anyone who has read and enjoyed Armstrong's books would also enjoy this tape (even though it contains but a small fraction of what is contained in her larger volumes). I recommend it.	2003-07-13
US	52816461	R2F5OJ1DVDKP5C	0865423113	416761378	Mind from Matter	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Philosophy meets superb science.	The full title of this book is &quot;Mind From Matter? An Essay of Evolutionary Epistemology&quot;. It is a compilation of lectures delivered at Caltech in the mid 70's by Max Delbruck, one of the preeminent biologists of the 20th century. The insights in this book are so refreshing and deep, I must wonder why this book has not received far greater attention than it has. It is one of the best books I have ever come across for demonstrating just how critically important science is to philosophy. If you have any interest in how science impinges on epistemology in particular, this book is a &quot;must read&quot;; put it at the top of your to-do list. Even if your interest is much broader, and you are not intimidated by equations and scientific jargon, then you will enjoy this book greatly. It is extremely well-written, beautifully illustrated with concise line drawings, and best of all, it explores an astonishingly wide range of topics in both science and philosophy. To give you some idea of its breadth, this book covers perception, genetics, time, cognition, causality, number theory, evolution, computability, paradoxes, relativity, quantum mechanics, mind/brain duality, logic and artificial intelligence, and discusses what all of this has to say about how we know anything; that is, epistemology. It's a stunning synthesis.<br />One of the central tenets of this book, which impinges forcefully on epistemology, is summed up nicely beginning on page 117: &quot;...the empiricist argument that knowledge about the world can enter the mind only through experience is valid if we consider only the ontogenetic development of man, from fertilized human egg to adult person. But once we also take into account the phylogenic development of the human brain through evolutionary history, it becomes clear that persons can know something of the world innately, prior to and independent of their experience.&quot;<br />In essence, Delbruck argues that we acquire knowledge not only through direct interaction, during development onward, but also through the accumulated experience of our ancestors, handed down by way of our genes, which have been shaped by eons of previous experience. The distinction between &quot;ontogenetic&quot; learning and &quot;phylogenetic&quot; learning is revisited many times in the book and explored in great depth, both philosophically and scientifically. As a biologist, Delbruck is not content to simply assert that something happened; he wants to understand the mechanisms. Delbruck offers many deep insights: &quot;What is learned phylogenetically is not how to enter the world with ready-made adaptive concepts but how to have the brain so interact with the world before, during, and after birth that is certain to develop adaptive rather than maladaptive categories of thought.&quot;<br />This is an outstanding book. Be warned, however, that it is not an easy read. It is not science-made-palatable. Rather, it is a carefully argued synthesis of wide-ranging scientific knowledge, and an exploration of the philosophical implications. If you are prepared to think hard, this book will reward you.	2003-07-11
US	52816461	R2CAWACXN2KRLU	0963779710	510012398	The Evidence for Creation: Examining the Origin of Planet Earth	Books	2	7	17	N	N	Spectacularly self-defeating	My aim here is not to debunk creationism but rather to discredit this particular book, which consists chiefly of misinformation, unsupported assertions, and exceedingly poor arguments. The authors also unwittingly demolish their own position, ironically making the entire book a catastrophe of Biblical proportions. If you are interested in creationism, this would be an awful place to start. While I cannot in good conscience recommend a single book on the topic, I will simply point out that this one is exceedingly poor.<br />While my criticism is harsh, I feel it is completely warranted, particularly in view of the author's vindictiveness toward those who disagree with them. For example, they assert: \\"A person who accepts the evolution premise as valid can not be convinced through intellectual reasoning that he is wrong.\\" And, \\"To any honest open-minded observer, the vast fossil evidence from all over the world confirms the Bible record of creation.\\" [p. 75] Evidently the authors believe that anyone who finds the preponderance of the evidence to support evolution is, by that criterion alone, both dishonest and closed-minded. Such ad hominem attacks are not only uncalled for, they are fallacious.  Arguments with genuine substance needn't employ such tactics.<br />There are far too many egregious errors in this book to list in a short review, so I will merely select a few random quotes: \\"The majority of the methods for determining the age of the earth indicate the earth is young. Only a few questionable methods of geochronology support the evolutionary concept of billions of years of age.\\" As harsh as it may sound, this is a great example of the fallacy known as \\"invincible ignorance\\"; the authors simply refuse to acknowledge the colossal mountain of evidence against them. It hardly warrants further comment.<br />Here is another: \\"[Water] is one of the few compounds which does not follow the natural laws of chemistry. Instead of contracting when it is frozen, water expands to create ice.\\" To say that water \\"does not follow the natural laws of chemistry\\" is precisely like saying that helium balloons do not obey the law of gravitation. The somewhat unusual (but not unique) property of expanding when frozen is an immediate consequence of its crystalline structure, which follows from its bond angles, which follows from quantum mechanics; Laws of chemistry, all the way down.<br />But the authors make the most spectacular blunder I have ever seen in print. Here is what they have to say about a world-wide deluge (Noah's flood): \\"All manner of life would be mixed and scrambled together and quickly buried.\\" [p. 82] \\"Vegetation and animal life would be scrambled together, torn, and buried in the layers of the earth in no particular order.\\" [p. 83] \\"According to the biblical model of the flood, all kinds of life would have been caught and destroyed in the layers of the earth. Fossils should not be found in a sequential order of simple to complex.\\" [p.86]<br />The authors spell out what Biblical creationism predicts and correctly observe that it is dramatically different from what evolution predicts. After setting up this most appropriate test, which unequivocally distinguishes between two rival hypotheses, the authors simply abandon the entire argument and move on to a new topic, never once taking a close look at what we actually find in the geological record.  While the authors do inject some odd statements later on (p. 165) about fossils everywhere appearing to have been formed by a sudden catastrophe, these are unsupported, wildly misleading, and evasive.  The most relevant question is how (or whether) the fossils are ordered in the geological record.<br />Here is what we find: The fossils of the geological column are ordered according to phylogeny (relatedness) and not homology (similarity of form), revealing world-wide strata corresponding to epochs of immense duration, unerringly separating both flora and fauna into hundreds of distinct groups, and showing an unmistakable progression from simple organisms in the Precambrian era to complex multicellular organisms in the Cambrian era and beyond. Creatures are layered according to the most minute anatomical differences, such as the number of bones in the ear, the number of toes, or the number of lenses in a compound eye.  Flowering plants (angiosperms) diversified in the mid-Cretaceous, as did insects, so the types of plants and insects that we find are quite different on either side of the Cretaceous strata. Not a single reptile or mammal has ever been found among the countless fossils of the Cambrian strata. Primates are found first in the Cretaceous era, never in strata below. On and on it goes. Few things in science are as spectacularly clear or well-documented as that. The words \\"slam dunk\\" come to mind.<br />Infer what you will about why the authors failed to mention any of that. Also, please consider again what the authors had to say about honest observers. Enough said.	2003-07-11
US	52816461	R3AXS2AXUC5GTZ	1877733075	163121156	Losing Faith in Faith: From Preacher to Atheist	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A unique and significant contribution. Well worth reading.	In \\"Losing Faith in Faith\\", Dan Barker chronicles his tumultuous journey from preacher to atheist, and enumerates the many arguments and observations that eventually lead to his loss of faith. It is true that there are dozens of other books supporting atheism that are far more scholarly, with incomparably better scientific support, and vastly better philosophical arguments. However, this book has something that very few others have; a fascinating and engaging personal story. It is first and foremost a candid and meticulously documented journey from belief to non-belief, with all the attendant tribulations. Along the way, Dan Barker shares his insights, his experiences, and his emotions. His arguments definitely have merit, and are well worth considering, but they are not the major strength of this book. I think the book is properly viewed as a new type of \\"witnessing\\"; it is a first-person testimony to believing Christians that there be not dragons on the other side--rather, there is another world that has its own rich rewards in intellectual freedom, compassion, and the deepest respect for honesty. It truly is a great place to live and to think. That is a message worth communicating, and I believe that it comes through in Dan Barker's writing.<br />I do not consider this book to deliver a fatal blow to Christianity in general; as many have rightly pointed out, it is more appropriately viewed as an attack on fundamentalism. I have read the comments of many thoughtful Christians who agree with Dan Barker on a great many points, rejecting much of the dogma and fabulous embellishment of Christianity, yet holding on to the core tenets. I cannot help but see this as a very positive thing; it lessens the distance between believer and non-believer and illuminates a vast common ground. I like common ground; it's spacious.<br />The arguments in this book were not new to me--I was already familiar with most of Barker's criticisms of Christianity--and I was already an atheist.Nevertheless, this book had an important and long-lasting effect on me by convincing me of two things:<br />1) Atheists are denigrated far too frequently in our society. They are perhaps the most openly disparaged minority in the US. As a people we need to outgrow this, just as we have outgrown many other forms of bigotry.<br />2) Toward that end, there is a need for more role models and outspoken advocates of atheism. Many people need only a nudge--a mere hint that there are other ways of thinking--to set them off on their own liberating path of discovery. (Indeed, this is how it happened for me.) One need not and should not be righteous or overbearing; simply honest.<br />I believe Dan Barker has done a great service in writing this book. He has done much to comfort those who have lost their faith by showing them that greater rewards await them, that they are by no means alone, and that they have already procured an incomparable gift in thinking for themselves. Barker has also done much by way of his writing and his organization (FFRF) to safeguard the precious principle of church-state separation. I do no wish to be alarmist. I am not suggesting that this principle is in serious jeopardy; yet, it most certainly warrants a watchful eye. Thank you for your vigilance, Mr. Barker.<br />It's rather amusing that two things seem to have remained fixed in Barker's life, despite his radical transformation: his enthusiasm and his outspokenness. Watching Barker debate, as I have on several occasions, I'm sure we are seeing vestiges of Dan Barker the witnessing Christian, and Dan Barker the preacher. This is not an indictment; it's merely an observation that Barker has managed to carry his ebullience from one side to the other.<br />I feel obliged to inject one last comment: The atheist songs included in the book, such as \\"Friendly Neighborhood Atheist\\" and \\"You Can't Win With Original Sin\\" are, well, sappy. Clearly Barker intended to break down barriers by injecting some much-needed humor, and by showing that atheists are ordinary people too, but I suspect that many readers will grimace with discomfort upon reading these--much like being subjected to off-key karaoke. Let me assure you that atheists are not lining up with song books in hand (much to everyone's relief, I'm sure). Yet, I cannot fault Barker for his enthusiasm, nor for his willingness to reach out in every way he can; It's far better than coming across as nasty or nihilistic.<br />In short, this book provides a unique perspective on atheism; It offers a great many rational arguments for rejecting religious claims (specifically those of fundamental Christianity), but more importantly, it presents a richly detailed view from one who has lived passionately on both sides of the fence. It's hard for me to imagine how anyone could fail to find this book fascinating, if not enlightening.	2003-07-11
US	52816461	RGVTUCHP8MH7G	0345361792	438809520	A Prayer for Owen Meany	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Hauntingly beautiful.	Fiction is not my favorite genre, and what I do read of it tends to be the &quot;classic&quot; stuff: Hemingway, Dostoevsky, Dickens, etc. So, how is it that I'm writing a review of a John Irving novel? Well, I'll also admit a weakness for Irving. There is something wonderfully appealing about the unlikely characters he invents and brings to life. He latches on to the absurd, embraces it with both arms, sets it down before you, and impels you to forge an enduring relationship with it. You come to love his characters. There's something remarkable in what Irving does. He expands you by causing you to love the absurd.<br />Enter Own Meany. Owen is my favorite among all of Irving's characters (Garp is perhaps second). It is as if Irving had been saving this one all his life, pouring into this one character every contradiction and absurdity he could conjure, then wrapping him up in an impossible little package; and you cannot help but love him.<br />But this is only the beginning; literally. Irving pulls off something that I can only liken to Dickens in &quot;A Tale of Two Cities&quot;. Ivring builds a rich and intricate tapestry around Owen Meany that would itself be worthy of high praise; then he reveals the meaning of that tapestry in a way that I can only describe as haunting. Haunting and beautiful. I literally had dreams about this book after finishing it, it had such a profound effect on me. Irving put magic into this book. Need I add that it is well worth reading?	2003-07-11
US	52816461	R6GLJAOKK9X4D	0201083191	244778617	Lisp (3rd Edition)	Books	4	57	58	N	N	Old but still very good	Winston and Horn's &quot;Lisp&quot; is an old chestnut.  It has stuck around, undergone several editions, and remains in print for a reason; it's a very clear and thorough introduction to programming in Lisp (and, beginning with the 2nd edition, it is specifically about Common Lisp, the most widely adopted dialect of Lisp).  In fact, it's probably the best introduction to Lisp there is; yet it's not the right book for every beginning Lisp programmer.<br />This book is apparently intended for programmers who are not only new to Lisp, but fairly new to programming in general.  Consequently, it would not be the ideal book for a seasoned programmer who already knows multiple languages and simply wants to learn one more.  I suspect that such a person would find this book a bit on the pedantic side, as it covers basic concepts at length.  A better place to start for experienced programmers would probably be Paul Graham's fine book &quot;ANSI Common Lisp&quot;, or perhaps even, &quot;Lisp in Small Pieces&quot; by Christian Queinnec, which covers interpreters and compilers in addition to Lisp programming. If you are looking for a very complete reference on Common Lisp (as opposed to Scheme), then Guy Steele's book &quot;Common Lisp, The Language&quot; is the right choice; it's another old chestnut.  Finally, if you are not set on Common Lisp, you may want to consider &quot;Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs&quot;, by Abelson, Sussman, and Sussman, which is a Scheme classic.<br />Winston &amp; Horn's book has some very nice features.  It not only covers all the basics, it also covers CLOS, the &quot;Common Lisp Object System&quot;, which is to Common Lisp what C++ is to C; that is, it is an addition to Common Lisp (essentially a &quot;layer&quot;) that allows the programmer to define classes, sub-classes (with inheritance), and methods.  In my opinion, CLOS is by far the most compelling reason to use Common Lisp rather than Scheme.  Winston &amp; Horn also doan admirable job of explaining both &quot;lexical&quot; and &quot;dynamic&quot; scoping, with the former being the most important.  In fact, it is essential to understand &quot;lexical closures&quot; before one can write effective Lisp programs, which is why Winston &amp; Horn devote so much attention to them, even developing a kind of graphical representation for them.<br />Over all, this is a fine introduction to Common Lisp, and programming in general.  It's an oldie but a goodie.	2003-07-10
US	52816461	RY69BX3A2C9DH	0300084730	595966966	The Computer and the Brain: Second Edition (Mrs. Hepsa Ely Silliman Memorial Lectures)	Books	4	25	25	N	N	Dated, but always worth reading von Neumann	Von Neumann was one of the most celebrated and prolific mathematicians of the 20'th century; his contributions were legion, and always bore unmistakable creativity and elegance. &quot;The Computer and the Brain&quot; is a record of a lecture series that von Neumann delivered at Yale University in 1957. In these lectures, von Neumann set out to explore connections between computing hardware and their biological counterparts; brains. Von Neumann compared neurons with physical computing elements in terms of size, speed, heat dissipation, capacity, etc., in an attempt to discover what, if anything, could be said to unite them or to set them apart. He drew from what had been learned in designing computer instructions and memories in an attempt to glean some insight into what the brain might be doing. Ever the consummate mathematician, von Neumann was guarded in his statements, never over-reaching or confusing speculation with fact.<br />The ideas contained in these lectures will come as no great surprise to most scientists today; indeed, I would expect most to simply nod in agreement at most of von Neumann's observations. For example, von Neumann notes that neurons are essentially digital in that they have an all-or-nothing activation energy. However, it is interesting to see how seriously he pursues the idea that the brain may rely upon a mixture of analog and digital encodings; he took absolutely nothing for granted, and may well have been vastly ahead of his time.<br />Although von Neumann's many references to vacuum tubes and differential analyzers may seem archaic today, his central points remain essentially intact. I'm certain that von Neumann would have felt somewhat vindicated by the explosive advances in semiconductor devices (in both digital and analog incarnations), as well as in machine learning and neurobiology. One can perhaps view von Neumann's lectures as the first glimmerings of what would eventually become fruitful exchanges between computer science andvarious biological disciplines.<br />If you are looking for a discussion that will give you some insight into artificial intelligence, neural networks, or brain physiology, then I'm afraid you will likely be disappointed with this book. While many of von Neumann's observations may have been controversial at the time, they have for the most part moved quietly into the collective consciousness of scientists. However, if you have interest in either the historical development of these ideas, or in seeing how one of the preeminent minds of the 20'th century approached this vexing new problem, then it will be worth your time.<br />What I most enjoyed about this book is von Neumann's methodical and exceedingly cautious approach, coupled with his occasional willingness to speculate. As the vast majority of von Neumann's writings are accessible only to a very small audience, such as his enormously influential treatises on quantum mechanics, geometry, and game theory, and his pioneering work in areas such as functional analysis and operator theory, this little book is perhaps unique in that it lets you in on the ground floor.	2003-07-09
US	52816461	R36OB3Q2XUDJ4H	0517123207	796780795	The Origin of Species	Books	5	266	310	N	N	The second most misrepresented book ever written	There is only one other book that is so widely known, discussed, and debated, yet so rarely read: that other book is the Bible. To make my point, here is a little quiz:<br />  1) Which name is most closely associated with the theory of evolution?<br />  2) Which book did this person write on evolution?<br />  3) What claims are made in that book?<br />  4) What else is contained in that book?<BR>    <BR>With astonishing regularity, the average literate adult will respond as follows: 1) Darwin, 2) Origin of Species, 3) Humans descended from apes, and 4) I have no idea. The first two are correct, the third is absolutely false, and the fourth is an admission of complete ignorance.  Considering that &quot;Origin of Species&quot; is over 600 pages long, and took nearly two decades to write, one would expect it to contain something more than the four simple words &quot;Humans descended from apes,&quot; which, in fact, it neither contains nor implies.  So, what DOES it contain?  There is one word that best summarizes the bulk of Darwin's magnum opus: &quot;observation&quot;.<br />It is a lengthy book; at times it is tedious, at times politically incorrect, and at times scientifically off-base.  But, despite its numerous flaws, it is one of the greatest achievements in the history of mankind.  Even if you are among the few who refuse to accept Darwin's ideas, you cannot deny their impact.  The theory is the cornerstone--if not the very foundation--of modern biology.  Whatever your preconceptions, you will likely be surprised by this work.  Darwin was the consummate naturalist and scientist, as well as a refined and articulate gentleman. &quot;Origin&quot; is a delight and an epiphany to read.  It's amazing how much Darwin got right, despite the fact that he had essentially no idea of how inheritance worked.  It's amazing how much data Darwin carefully assembled, analyzed, and described.  It's amazing how meticulously Darwin weighed the evidence, noting when competing theories made different predictions, when the available evidence was not what he would have expected, and what future evidence could completely discredit (falsify) his theory.  It's amazing in its honesty.<br />The misconceptions about &quot;Origin of Species&quot; are not merely rampant, they are effectively universal, fueled (largely in the US) by the rise of creationism, which seeks first and foremost to vilify the theory of evolution as well as Darwin (often failing to distinguish between the two).  It's worth the time to read this enormous but meticulously crafted volume, if only to allow you to form your own opinions about such an influential book.  Once you have, take the little quiz again.  You may need 600 pages to answer the last question.	2003-07-08
US	52816461	R3LQQLZKRI9WNK	0962358908	720499359	The Spontaneous Self: Viable Alternatives to Free Will	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Is free will an illusion?  If so, what then?	In &quot;The Spontaneous Self&quot;, Paul Breer defends a philosophical position that is shocking to Western sensibilities; the thesis that free will is an illusion.  Many would immediately reject this assertion as self-defeating, equating it with nihilism or fatalism.  Undaunded, Breer carefully examines the idea of an autonomous &quot;self&quot; and finds, with Hume before him, that it is wholly without rational support.  The implications are profound--and surprising--for Breer finds nothing problematic nor even troubling in dispelling this illusion; instead he finds that doing so leads to greater calm, and even to a more defensible notion of morality.  To his critics, Breer is quick to point out that abandoning free will does not appear so outlandish when one considers the self-governing and organizing abilities of societies, which lack a centralized agency, and the fact that Buddhism and other Eastern philosophies have long ago cast off free agency.<br />One of Breer's objectives is to examine why we, in the West, cling so tenaciously to the idea of free will, for if it is an illusion the consequences are myriad and profound.  As Breer put is, &quot;The thoughts which affect us the most are the basic metaphysical assumptions we make about the way the world works.  Free agency is one of those basic assumptions.&quot; [p. 215]  In the opening paragraphs of the book, Breer notes that we are indoctrinated into many beliefs that we scarcely question, such as that of free will, yet those beliefs do not hold up to scrutiny.  Breer states rather dramatically that &quot;It may be unrealistic enough, in fact, to qualify as a delusion, i.e. 'a false belief regarding the self or persons...that persists despite the facts...'&quot;  Breer claims that free will is essentially a homunculus, a vestige of Cartesian dualism, which is also behind the concept of god.  &quot;What makes free agency a specifically spiritual concept is the assumption that the agent's choices are not caused by antecedent conditions.&quot;<br />Breer finds nothing compelling, nor even desirable, in the idea of a &quot;soul&quot;; he finds instead both paradox and oppression.  He asks, &quot;How can it be that, in a universe where every other living and non-living thing participates in a chain of cause and effect, we humans managed to extricate ourselves from that chain?&quot;  He observes that &quot;Our Western belief that individual souls remain separated throughout eternity, in heaven as well as on earth, creates a sense of personal isolation unknown elsewhere in the world.&quot; [p 219]  According to Breer, there is a fundamental error behind this duality: &quot;The error lies in inferring that if the organism is capable of thinking about its own thinking or perceiving the way it perceives, it must be a subject distinct from the experience it is 'having'&quot;. [p. 235]<br />Naturally, strenuous objections issue from those who wish to defend Western notions of morality, which are inextricably bound up with intention and free will.  As Breer admits, without the assumption of free agency, the notion of morality loses its usual meaning.  Actions are &quot;simply normative or abnormative, i.e. they either conform to or deviate from agreed upon rules.&quot;  According to Breer, &quot;Many philosophers have worked hard to avoid this very conclusion, primarily because they can not imagine society's functioning without a belief in free agency.&quot;  However, &quot;...there is nothing incompatible between viewing behavior as determined while continuing to express moral judgments about it.&quot;  In defense of this claim, Breer introduces the notion of &quot;positional responsibility&quot;, which does not depend upon free will.  According to Breer, &quot;To say that I am positionally responsible for a given act means that, because the act arose here in this body/mind rather then somewhere else, I am liable for whatever the consequences may be of this arising.&quot;  As aconsequence, &quot;When our responsibility is purely positional rather than moral,... deliberate punishment makes sense only if it has some kind of deterrent or rehabilitative value.&quot;<br />Breer considers what effect these conclusions have on individuals.  &quot;In blaming others, our belief that an agent inside the other person could have caused something less offensive to happen make acceptance of the actual behavior far more difficult.  The more freedom we assume that agent to have had in its choosing, the angrier we are likely to feel over the choice actually made.&quot; [p. 117]  In a similar spirit, Breer makes the following observations: &quot;What non-agency calls for is not forgiveness but acceptance; this is a cognitive rather than a spiritual process.&quot; [p 121]  &quot;Giving up the illusion of causal autonomy moderates our desires while reducing our temptation to engage in violent effort in order to achieve them.  One of the primary effects of that changed attitude is a reduction in anxiety.&quot; [p. 153]  &quot;With the giving up of agency, speculating about either the past or the future becomes less interesting.  We are drawn more intimately into the present...&quot; [p. 178]  &quot;The key lies not in loving every moment or wishing for every event but in accepting whatever arises.&quot; [ p. 213]<br />I find Breer's thesis to be quite intriguing, and worthy of serious consideration.  Breer makes an interesting case, both for rejecting the notion of free will, and for embracing its many implications rather than fearing them.  Personally, I feel that Breer has overlooked some elements of human nature that have bearing on his theory, such as our righteous indignation toward those who do not share our values.  However, I must join Breer, Hume, and legion Eastern philosophers in asserting that our notions of agency are perhaps more fiction than fact, and that it behooves us to gain a more realistic understanding of who we are.<br />If you intrigued by radical ideas and are not put off by philosophies that run counter to Western notions of morality, then you will likely enjoy this book.  Breer posits his ideas very clearly, and explores the evidence and the consequences quite thoroughly.  Whether you end up agreeing with Breer or not, it's an interesting journey.  If nothing else, it's a great thought experiment.	2003-07-08
US	52816461	RVRMBWVJN1RI1	0060505915	581879090	The True Believer: Thoughts on the Nature of Mass Movements (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	556	573	N	N	Still vibrant, after all these years.	When I first read Hoffer's classic book, \\"The True Believer\\", as a graduate student twenty years ago, I was shocked.  I was astonished that a writer could openly suggest parallels among Christianity, Islam, fascism, and the KKK, and survive to write another book.  Yet I was riveted by Hoffer's observations, which seemed to jump off the page in spite of his straightforward and unembellished prose.  But I also recall thinking that Hoffer was a bit too brash in his assertions; that he ought to have tempered nearly every statement with a qualifier--a disclaimer that left open the possibility that he was mistaken.<br />Upon reading Hoffer again, as a middle-aged and somewhat less idealistic professor, I find that several things have changed.  First, Hoffer's observations seem even more keenly relevant today, post 9/11, than they did in the post-Vietnam era.  Secondly, I now understand Hoffer's apparent brashness.  In my youthful zeal I often rushed through the preface of a book, or skipped it entirely. But therein was Hoffer's justification: \\"The book passes no judgments, and expresses no preferences.  It merely tries to explain; and the explanations--all of them theories--are in the nature of suggestions and arguments even when they are stated in what seems a categorical tone.  I can do no better than quote Montaigne: 'All I say is by way of discourse, and nothing by way of advice.  I should not speak so boldly if it were my due to be believed.'\\"  While I am generally no fan of blanket disclaimers, I understand why Hoffer did it this way.  His words could have been too easily dismissed had they been continually tempered and restrained.<br />Hoffer revels in pointing out seemingly paradoxical situations and attitudes, such as \\"Discontent is likely to be highest when misery id bearable; when conditions have so improved that an ideal state seems almost within reach.  A grievance is most poignant when almost redressed.\\"  His incisive comments cut to the nerve of his subject, treating in one stroke mass movements of every variety: \\"It is futile to judge the viability of a new movement by the truth of its doctrine and the feasibility of its promises.  What has to be judged is its corporate organization for quick and total absorption of the frustrated.\\"<br />But what I remember most vividly, and Hoffer has reaffirmed for me, are his chilling observations about indoctrination and self-sacrifice. \\"The readiness for self-sacrifice is contingent on an imperviousness to the realities of life.  He who is free to draw conclusions from his individual experience and observation is not usually hospitable to the idea of martyrdom... All active mass movements strive, therefore, to interpose a fact-proof screen between the faithful and the realities of the world.  They do this by claiming that the ultimate and absolute truth is already embodied in their doctrine and that there is no truth or certitude outside it.  The facts on which the true believer bases his conclusions must not be derived from his experience or observation but from holy writ.\\"<br />I will close with one further quote from \\"The True Believer\\": \\"...in order to be effective a doctrine must not be understood, but has to be believed in.  We can be absolutely certain only about things we do not understand.\\"  It is in statements like these that Hoffer seems to speak from a vantage point that few others have attained.  Hoffer's insights are timeless.	2003-07-08
US	52816461	RWP71A6BHVRX3	0553342533	926219124	In Search of Schrdinger's Cat: Quantum Physics and Reality	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Fact is infinitely stranger than fiction	If asked what the most significant technological achievement of the 20'th century was, most people will cite landing on the Moon.  If asked what the most significant scientific achievement of the 20'the century was, most people will cite the discovery of DNA, or the theory of relativity, or advances in cosmology, or any number of other truly stunning achievements. However, John Gribbin provides a different and eminently more defensible answer: quantum mechanics.<br />This book is perhaps the best lay introduction to quantum mechanics I've come across.  If you have a scientific leaning, and would like to be privy to one of the most shocking and influential scientific breakthroughs of all time (second, perhaps, only to evolution), then pick up a copy of Gribbin's &quot;In Search of Schrodinger's Cat&quot;.  It's a first-rate treatment of quantum mechanics (sans mathematics) that will instill an appreciation of just how wildly successful this theory has been, and why it justly deserves the accolade of the most significant scientific achievement of the 20'th century.  You will also appreciate why even its founders would have been quite happy to see it overturned.<br />While the theory of evolution continues to be shocking to many, once understood it has a simple elegance and even an appealing intuition.  It sheds light on previously mysterious aspect of our world.  Not so with quantum mechanics!  Even those who &quot;understand&quot; it are perpetually disturbed and/or baffled by it, as it seems to inject mysticism where once there had been seeming clarity.  Neils Bohr, one of the original founders of quantum mechanics, famously quipped, &quot;Anyone who isn't shocked by quantum theory has not understood it.&quot;<br />The title of the book refers to a famous thought experiment proposed by Erwin Schrodinger, another founder of quantum mechanics.  I shall not attempt to explain Shrodinger's hypothetical experiment here, as you will think me mistaken, deluded, or quite insane if I were to suggest that a cat might be neither dead nor alive, until it is observed as such.  So I'll let that pass.  You may think me similarly afflicted if I were to suggest that matter can pop into existence out of nothing.  So, I'll let that slide too.  Gribbin can break all that news to you, and you can blame him if it upsets you.  But I will give away this much: nature has apparently dealt us a far stranger hand than any science fiction writer has ever dreamed.<br />If you are a student of physics who can write down Schrodinger's wave equation and wield momentum operators with the best of them, don't forget to pause at some point and look at the larger historical and philosophical context of quantum mechanics.  If not, you will be like the hapless paleontologist who scrutinizes microscopic fossils while missing the gargantuan footprint in which he stands.  Quantum mechanics is far broader, deeper, and stranger than mere equations can convey (at least at present).  Sure, there are more erudite and academic treatments of this material, such as Max Jammer's &quot;The Philosophy of Quantum Mechanics&quot;, but that will take a good while to struggle through, and you may put it off.  In the mean time, pick up Gribbin's excellent and entertaining book.  It's a great substitute for science fiction as it is every bit as entertaining, yet as far as science has bee able to discern, it is all true.   <br />Even if science does not rank among your chief interests, you owe it to yourself to gain at least a passing familiarity with one of the greatest scientific achievements of all time, if not the greatest enigma of all time.  Consider it part of a broad liberal education.  Who knows, it may even turn up on Jeopardy some day.  The answer: &quot;The most significant scientific theory of the 20'th century&quot;. The question: &quot;What is quantum mechanics?&quot;.	2003-07-08
US	52816461	RJTCF0EKWZA5Q	0312381859	729758800	A History of Pi	Books	4	13	15	N	N	How I want a drink, alcoholic of course...	\\"A History of Pi\\" is an amusing and informative romp through history with a most unlikely protagonist; a transcendental number that is know by the 16'th letter of the Greek alphabet, pi.  Its pages contain historical developments, mathematical formulas, computational methods, and enormously entertaining facts, anecdotes, and trivia.  It traces the understanding of this mere number from the ancients, into the dark ages, through the enlightenment, and on into the present, from stone tablet, to abacus, to digital computer.  The list of notables whose legacies somehow impinge on 3.14159... include Euclid, Archimedes, Huygens, Pascal, Lambert, Leibniz, Newton, Halley, Euler, Lagrange, and Laplace, to name just a few. <br />If you haven't even a passing interest in mathematics, then this book will probably be an insufferable bore to you.  Similarly, if your interest lies in the mathematics alone, not the surrounding folklore, history, or personalities, then the book will be nearly as insufferable.  However, if you have any interest at all in mathematics along with its colorful history, then you will likely find Beckman's book to be an engrossing page-turner. To give you some idea of the range of topics that you will find in this book, here are several excerpts that I particularly enjoyed.<br />1) Beckman quotes the following episode, which is not directly tied to the number pi, but rather to the astounding calculating prodigies who dot the landscape of mathematics: \\"Truman Henry Safford (1836-1901) of Royalton, Vermont, could instantly extract the cube root of seven-digit numbers at the age of 10.  At the same age, he was examined by the Reverend H. W. Adams, who asked him to square, in his head, the number 365,365,365,365,365,365.  Thereupon, reports Dr. Adams, 'He flew around the room like a top, pulled his pantaloons over the tops of his boots, bit his hands, rolled his eyes in their sockets, sometimes smiling and talking, and then seeming to be in agony, until in notmore than a minute, said he, 133,491,850,208,566,925,016,658,299,941,583,255!'\\"<br />2) Here is what Indiana legislators were up to in 1897: \\"The Indiana House of Representatives did consider and unanimously pass a bill that attempted to legislate the value of pi (a wrong value)...\\", which was \\"the equivalent of pi = 9.2376, ...the biggest overestimate of pi in the history of mathematics.\\"<br />3) To illustrate the misplaced obsession of those who sought to compute pi to ever-increasing precision, Beckman relates the following quote: \\"Conceive a sphere constructed with the earth at his center, and imagine its surface to pass through Sirius, which is 8.8 light years distant from the earth [which is roughly 52,000,000,000,000 miles].  Then imagine this enormous sphere to be so packed with microbes that in every cubic millimeter millions of millions of these diminutive animalcula are present.  Now conceive these microbes to the unpacked and so distributed singly along a straight line that every two microbes are as far distant from each other as Sirius from us, 8.8 light years.  Conceive the long line thus fixed by all the microbes as the diameter of a circle, and imagine its circumference to be calculated by multiplying its diameter by pi to 100 decimal places.  Then, in the case of a circle of this enormous magnitude even, the circumference so calculated would not vary from the real circumference by a millionth part of a millimeter. This example will suffice to show that the calculation of pi to 100 or 500 decimal places is wholly useless.\\"<br />I should point out that the book contains more actual mathematics than I have found in virtually any other book that is intended (largely) for lay consumption.  In its pages you will find numerous geometrical constructions, infinite series, calculus, and monstrous-looking continued fractions.  Among the more pithy formulas you will find these: <br />pi / 2 = (2 * 2 * 4 * 4 * 6 * 6 * ...) / (3 * 3 * 5 * 5 * 7 * 7 * ...)<br />pi/ 4 = 1 - 1/3 + 1/5 - 1/7 + ...<br />But all such formulas can be skipped over, or merely admired for their ingenuity, should the reader be unable, or unwilling, to grasp their entire meaning.  I applaud Beckman for including such a panoply of mathematical formulas; it's hard to imagine doing the topic justice without them.<br />Oh, should you need to memorize pi to 15 significant digits (that is, 3.14159265358979), Beckman provides the following acronym: \\"How I want a drink, alcoholic of course, after the heavy lectures involving quantum mechanics!\\" Enjoy.	2003-07-08
US	52816461	R15BV4U4WVT9VL	0134335589	774386304	Problems on Algorithms	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A little gem of fundamental computer science	This is a terrific little book, which I recommend highly to students of computer science, but above all to those who teach computer science.  While I could imagine teaching a short course based on this book alone, it would be an excellent supplement to a more thorough-going text.  Better still, just keep this little book around for those times when you are searching for a good homework or exam problem.  It's got hundreds of them.<br />On the down side, Parberry's discussions are so terse that students may get somewhat frustrated if it is their only source.  Yet, there is much to be said for being concise!  The author wastes nary a syllable before launching into the problems, which is how he managed to pack so much into a mere 167 pages.  Don't be deceived by the thickness of this book; it may look like a mere pamphlet, but it contains 651 exercises, many of which have lengthy hints and good number of which are actually worked out in detail.<br />The book introduces a wide range of topics from very basic (mathematical induction) to somewhat sophisticated (NP-completeness).  About half of the book focuses on mathematical prerequisites such as induction, inequalities, binomial coefficients, combinatorics, graphs, Big-Oh &amp; Big Omega, and recurrence relations.  The rest of the book covers topics such as graph algorithms, searching, greedy algorithms, dynamic programming, divide-and-conquer, backtracking, program correctness, and even a chapter on NP-completeness. The latter includes a terse description of both Cook reducibility and Karp (many-to-one) reducibility.  This last chapter would be a bit too dense for someone unfamiliar with these concepts, but it's a nice review with copious exercises.<br />There are a few things I particularly like about the book.  First is the chapter on program correctness, which includes dozens of examples and exercises on loop invariants.  This is a great resource in itself. Secondly, I really like the occasional &quot;What is Wrong?&quot; sections, where the author presents what seems to be a valid proof or argument, and the student is asked to find the subtle flaw.  This is an excellent pedagogical technique.<br />If you're an undergraduate in computer science, the simpler exercises will be extremely useful to you.  If you are a graduate student in computer science, you will gain from seeing all these fundamental topics covered so quickly, and with very clear examples.  Read it before your qualifying exam! If you are a professor of computer science (like me), you may want to keep this book under wraps; it's too good a source for exam problems.<br />I'll close with a paraphrasing of one of the exercises in the book.  This is significantly wordier than most of the problems in this book, but it's clever and is exactly the type of thing that would make a great homework exercise in an introductory algorithms class.  &quot;You are facing a high wall that stretches infinitely in both directions.  There is a door in the wall, but you don't know how far away or in which direction.&quot;  The problem then asks you to describe how you would find the door in O(n) steps, where &quot;n&quot; is the number of steps initially separating you from the door.  What a cute problem!<br />I wish there were more volumes like this.quot; sections, where the author presents what seems to be a valid proof or argument, and the student is asked to find the subtle flaw.  This is an excellent pedagogical technique.<br />If you're an undergraduate in computer science, the simpler exercises will be extremely useful to you.  If you are a graduate student in computer science, you will gain from seeing all these fundamental topics covered so quickly, and with very clear examples.  Read it before your qualifying exam! If you are a professor of computer science (like me), you may want to keep this book under wraps; it's too good a source for exam problems.<br />I'll close with a paraphrasing of one of the exercises in the book.  This is significantly wordier than most of the problems in this book, but it's clever and is exactly the type of thing that would make a great homework exercise in an introductory algorithms class.  &quot;You are facing a high wall that stretches infinitely in both directions.  There is a door in the wall, but you don't know how far away or in which direction.&quot;  The problem then asks you to describe how you would find the door in O(n) steps, where &quot;n&quot; is the number of steps initially separating you from the door.  What a cute problem!<br />I wish there were more volumes like this.	2003-07-05
US	52816461	R2OKLJC3NX8VJB	047118117X	647638882	Optimization by Vector Space Methods	Books	5	52	54	N	N	Simply the perfect math book	Optimization by Vector Space Methods, by David Luenberger, is one of the finest math texts I have ever read, and I've read hundreds. Many years ago this book sparked my interest in optimization and convinced me that the abstract mathematics I had been immersed in actually would be applicable to real problems. Since then, Luenberger's book has inspired several of my graduate students. I merely lent them my copy, and Luenberger did the rest; he drew them in by carefully laying the foundation for an elegant theory, with just the right mix of formalism and intuition, and opened their eyes to the beauty and practicality of abstract mathematics. Anyone with an interest in higher-level mathematics (beyond multi-variable calculus, say) would benefit from exposure to this finely-crafted book.  I daresay, the rampant math anxiety that is so prevalent in the West would be substantially reduced if more authors would take such meticulous care in presenting their material.<br />The format of Luenberger's book is also extremely appealing in a way that I cannot quite put my finger on.  The typography and illustrations are inherently crisp and inviting; they draw you in. There is nothing at all superfluous or gratuitous in this book.  It is utterly to-the-point, methodical, and above all, clear. The techniques are developed starting from an elementary treatment of vector spaces, then proceeding on to Banach spaces and Hilbert spaces.  Along the way, Luenberger  introduces convexity, cones, basic topology, random variables, minimum-variance estimators, and least squares, among many other things. There is a recurring theme of duality, which can be used in a way analogous to the inner product of a Hilbert space. In particular, the familiar projection theorems of Hilbert spaces can be echoed in simpler normed linear spaces using duality, which Luenberger motivates and covers beautifully.<br />The book also covers some of the standard fare of functional analysis, such as the Han-Banach theorem, strong and weak convergence, and the Banach inverse theorem.  However, Luenberger never wanders too far off into abstract nonsense; around every corner lay tantalizing application of these ideas to optimization. Luenberger first explores optimization of functionals then covers constrained optimization, which builds upon concepts such as positive cones and Lagrange multipliers. The optimization methods themselves have endless applications in fields such as computer vision, computer graphics, economics, and physics.  Indeed, the list is effectively endless as optimization techniques pervade math and science.<br />I'm certain that the appeal of this book is helped immeasurably by the inherent beauty of the subject matter.  Hilbert-space methods are lovely in themselves--they possess a structure that engages one's geometric intuition while at the same time admitting convenient algebraic properties. Once you are in the habit of phrasing problems in abstract settings such as Hilbert spaces, it forever changes how you look at things; you cannot help but look past the clutter to the essence of a problem (or, at least try very hard to do so). While this material is not nearly as abstract as, say, category theory, it nevertheless hits a high point in mathematics--a point more people ought to experience.<br />If you've had some exposure to optimization methods, or need to apply them in the context of computer vision, graphics, or finance, to mention just a few areas, then I urge you to take a look at Luenberger's fine book.  It too hits a high point in clarity of mathematical writing.  Combine beautiful theory with endless applications and lucid writing, and you have a winner of a book.	2003-07-04
US	52816461	R35ZQJR7JFCFG5	0802485952	585450804	Testing Christianity's truth-claims: Approaches to Christian apologetics	Books	2	10	26	N	N	Testing?  Nay, merely echoing.	I purchased this book expecting that the author had attempted to assess the validity of various Christian claims through objective historical or scientific principles. While Lewis does address a range of arguments, the book is simply a compilation of typical apologetics with nary a glance toward objectivity. It's absurd to suggest that the book is about \\"testing\\" anything, aside from the reader's willingness to endure 295 pages of vapid apologetics.<br />On page 18, Lewis states \\"The open-minded will carefully examine the evidence of Christianity's best apologists and follow the evidence where it leads.\\" This plea for open-mindedness is revealing in that it deftly ignores Christianity's critics. Indeed, nothing in the entire book suggests that critics need be taken seriously, for Lewis shows outright contempt for those who question the claims he purports to test. On page 88 Lewis approvingly quotes Floyd Hamilton: \\"...our belief in the trustworthiness of the whole Bible is so strong that we are not afraid of descending to the level of destructive critics of the Bible, for the sake of argument, confident that the Bible will stand every critical test that may be proposed.\\" On page 55 Lewis proclaims \\"Those who turn away from the evidence do so willfully and culpably. Before God,... they are morally reprehensible and without excuse.\\" Apparently Lewis believes that skepticism is destructive and that non-believers are reprehensible. So much for objectivity.<br />Even more disturbing is Lewis's penchant for begging the question. In attempting to establish Christianity's claims Lewis and his associates invariably assume precisely what they set out to show, often without even flinching at blatant circularity. Page 55: \\"The most probable source of the biblical idea of God is God Himself. No other cause adequately accounts for the idea of God which men possess.\\" Lewis appeals to the \\"probability\\" of an explanation, and even asserts that it is the only one possible. One wouldthink that such statements would require lengthy justification; yet Lewis merely observes that ideas must come from somewhere, in analogy with literary invention. This pattern is repeated throughout the book; Lewis asserts that something is \\"highly probable\\" or \\"logically sound\\" when that is precisely what is at issue.<br />On page 78 Lewis raises Hume's skepticism about causal explanations and laments that a causal principle is needed to prove the truth of Christianity; without it all argument is futile. Here is how Lewis rescues the principle from Hume's criticism: \\"The causal principle is 'self-evidently true' because implanted in all men at creation as a bridge to the external world.\\" Translation: we need causal principles to prove Christianity and, as luck would have it, Christianity assures us that the principle is true. Another vicious circle. <br />On page 84 Lewis paraphrases an argument based on the \\"supreme end\\", which I take to mean the ultimate purpose of mankind: \\"The supreme end is not instrumental to any other end; it is the final intrinsic good which all else serves. And that highest good imposes an absolute moral imperative upon human activity. So the meaningfulness of our moral experience requires that the Cause of man be morally good.\\" Convinced? To be safe Lewis quotes the original:<br />1) Rational selves are confronted with a transsubjective and transtemporal supreme end to the realization of which they are unconditionally obligated.<br />2) Such an eternally valid end cannot subsist alone but must be existentially based on an eternal mind whose nature both recognizes and embodies the absolute good.<br />3) There exists, consequently, just such an eternal mind whose nature is absolute goodness.<br />The premises 1 and 2 are laden with haughty language and tacit assumptions that beg the question. What independent support is there for these \\"transsubjective\\" ends?  How do we know that they cannot subsist but through and \\"eternal mind\\"? These premises are explicated neither by Lewis nor, presumably, by their original proponent.  Yet Lewis makes the astonishing claim that this non-sequitur is a \\"syllogistic certainty\\" and constitutes a \\"logical demonstration\\"!<br />Page 244: \\"Since our available records of Christ's words and works are in the New Testament, some might ask for evidence in addition to it. Since there is no counter-evidence from the times to call the reports into question, we have no reason not to believe them.\\" Apparently Lewis is unaware of Gnostic refutations of Christianity. But far more troubling is Lewis's assertion that we are obliged to accept any claim that is not accompanied by a contemporaneous refutation. Lewis continues \\"Should we question the testimony of these reports to Christ's life we have ended all critical investigation.\\" According to Lewis, critical investigation ends as soon as we begin to question! But Lewis goes further still: \\"Historical claims are neither established nor refuted by science and philosophy. They can only be judged by the sort of common sense that takes pleasure in submitting to things as they are.\\" Ultimately, Lewis casts off science and philosophy, embracing common sense as the ultimate arbiter.  Dare I ask what the point of the previous 243 pages was, then?<br />Like an inebriate who misconstrues everything in terms of drink, Lewis shouts \\"Eureka!\\" at every turn; he need only survey the contents of his pencil drawer to discern the unmistakable hand of god. His polemics are supported by nothing but wishful thinking and approval of uncritical peers.  The resulting work cannot even articulate a useful question, let alone discern truth.<br />Christians who enjoy pseudo-philosophical apologetics and are not put off by brazen lack of objectivity may get something out of this book. There are several brief discussions that could get one thinking in a new direction. However, I implore you to pursue more respectable treatments, such as those by Alvin Plantinga, Richard Swinburne, Kelly James Clark, or even C. S. Lewis, all of whom are well worth reading. Non-believers (like me) seeking an intelligent discussion of Christian evidences will wish they had spent their time and money elsewhere.	2003-07-04
US	52816461	R41VYP86G51FZ	0737000368	949465476	Get a Grip on Evolution	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Darwin on rye, hold the pickles	Okay, I'll admit it; I don't even own a copy of this book. I simply picked it up from a pile of remainders at a local book store, and began to read. By the time I put it down, I had read most of it. I estimate it would take less than 40 minutes to read it cover to cover.<br />This cute little book is completely disarming. It mixes comic book style sketches with random photos and odd bits of clip-art, jumbles various typefaces, including one that looks as if came from a typewriter in need of repair, and is printed on the type of recycled-looking paper that you might wrap a large parcel with. It's thoroughly self-effacing. Yet--and here's the clincher--its little blurbs are actually informative and accurate; each one is short (often no more than a few sentences) and fun to read.<br />Each blurb covers some little topic that is in some way relevant to the theory of evolution: DNA, genetics, vestigial organs, mutations, Darwin, the difference between a hypothesis and a theory, the evolution of behavior, the formation of fossils, and even a few good-natured jabs at creationists (one sports a tiny illustration of a newspaper with the headline \\"Breaking News. Darwin was WRONG!\\").<br />I'm not sure who the intended audience of this book was, but I suspect that quite a few people would enjoy it; especially those with a streak of irreverence. But you definitely can't take this book too seriously. It's something you could keep in the bathroom, or by the pool. If it gets wet, Oh well. If for some reason you're in the market for a completely disarming and unpretentious little book on evolution, then here you go. It might make a good stocking stuffer (it's actually the right shape). Enjoy.	2003-07-03
US	52816461	R1ALO4SYUEQJ9T	0684854295	235571318	Ernest Hemingway on Writing	Books	4	42	44	N	N	Reflections on writing culled from Hemingway's writings	Hemingway was reticent about his craft; he feared that talking about it would destroy it, or even worse, be a substitute for it.  Yet, woven throughout his novels and other writings are numerous observations about writers and the art of writing.  In &quot;Ernest Hemingway On Writing&quot;, Larry Phillips has culled several hundred excerpts from Hemingway's books, interviews, and personal correspondences that touch upon some aspect of writing.  They range in length from a mere sentence fragment to several paragraphs.  As Phillips explains in the introduction, &quot;This book contains Hemingway's reflections on the nature of the writer and on the elements of the writer's life, including specific helpful advice to writers on the craft of writing, work habits, and discipline.  The Hemmingway personality comes through in general wisdom, wit, humor, and insight...&quot;<br />Some of these reflections are insightful, some are humorous, and some show us Hemingway at his best.  But this is not to say that the collection works as a whole.  While I like the idea behind book, and feel it has definite value, there are a good number of excerpts that do not seem to have any of the above qualities, so I question why they were included.  They seem like filler.  Nonetheless, I'll list a few of the reflections that I liked, as they show something of Hemingway's many moods and styles.<br />In a letter to Charles Scribner, Hemingway reveals a tortured ambivalence about writing: &quot;Charlie there is no future in anything. I hope you agree.  That is why I like it at a war.  Every day and every night there is  a strong possibility that you will get killed and not have to write.  I have to write to be happy... But it is a hell of a disease to be born with.  I like to do it.  Which is even worse. That makes it from a disease into a vice.  Then I want to do it better than anybody has ever done it which makes it into an obsession.&quot;<br />Among the reflections are many little truisms about writing: &quot;...it has never gotten any easier to do and you can't expect it to if you keep trying for something better than you can do.&quot;  There are also sardonic remarks: &quot;The good parts of a book may be only something a writer is lucky enough to overhear or it may be the wreck of his whole damn life--and one is as good as the other.&quot; Some of Hemingway's remarks seem genuinely helpful, as when he describes what he does when he is &quot;stuck&quot;.  He would say to himself &quot;Do no worry.  You have always written before and you will write now.  All you have to do is write one true sentence.  Write the truest sentence that you know.&quot;  Then, he explains &quot;If I start to write elaborately, or like someone introducing or presenting something, I found that I could cut that scrollwork or ornament out and throw it away and start with the first true simple declarative sentence I had written.&quot;  Finally, when asked &quot;How much should you write a day?&quot;, he proffered this advice: &quot;The best way is always to stop when you are going good and when you know what will happen next.  If you do that every day when you are writing a novel you will never get stuck. That is the most valuable thing I can tell you so try to remember it.&quot;<br />The collection definitely contains some gems; if you are a Hemingway fan you will likely enjoy it.  However, if you are looking for sage advice from the master, you are apt to be disappointed, for once you remove the quips and the anecdotes, there is not a great deal left.	2003-07-03
US	52816461	R1S36T51HJRAKK	0394800133	832870420	One Fish Two Fish Red Fish Blue Fish (I Can Read It All by Myself)	Books	5	10	15	N	N	Say!  What a lot of fish there are.	You can read it<BR>on a train.<BR>You can read it<BR>in the rain.<BR>You can read it<BR>where you wish.<BR>But can you read it<BR>to a fish?<br />Do you have<BR>a child there?<BR>Do you have one<BR>in your care?<BR>If you do<BR>then listen close.<BR>This book has more<BR>than just a dose<BR>of fun and charm<BR>and rhyming words<BR>creatures more<BR>than fish and birds.<br />Of course it has<BR>both of those things<BR>but better still,<BR>it has a Ying who sings.<br />A Zans, a Gox,<BR>a Gack, a Wump,<BR>tall or short<BR>or with a hump!<BR>Some are near<BR>some are far<BR>one even has<BR>a little car.<br />Wonders fill<BR>your child's head<BR>as she snuggles<BR>into bed.<BR>I cannot think<BR>of better times<BR>than those we've shared<BR>with Seuss's rhymes.<BR>So curl up<BR>and read about<BR>the funny things<BR>that bump and shout.<br />To each and every child<BR>I say<BR>count along with me<BR>this way.<BR>One fish, two fish,<BR>three fish, four<BR>Dr. Seuss<BR>for ever more.	2003-07-02
US	52816461	RO0CRRGDF7646	0872205525	745592647	A Rulebook for Arguments	Books	5	501	537	N	N	Don't argue, just buy it.  Then you can argue.	A college applicant allegedly wrote the following one-word essay to describe himself: &quot;Concise.&quot;  While I was tempted to coopt that entire essay as a review for this book, ultimately I decided to be more verbose: first, some general remarks about the relevance of this book, then a summary of its content.<br />I often lament that the mythical &quot;average person&quot; does not appreciate what counts as evidence, nor distinguish between prejudice and rational conclusion.  This is particularly evident in the realm of politics, where inflammatory rhetoric is the rule and rational argument the exception.  If this tiny book (or its equivalent) were required reading for every high school senior, or college freshman, I wager there would be a wholesale shift in the texture and value of day-to-day discourse.  No longer would we hear &quot;Don't vote for that crook!&quot;, but the more sober, albeit prolix, application of modus tollens, &quot;Public office requires honesty.  Jones is dishonest.  Therefore, Jones should not be elected to public office.&quot;<br />Of course, &quot;Don't vote for that crook!&quot; will never be abandoned for the simple reason that it is good tight prose.  Yet, wouldn't it be grand if it were crystal clear to everyone that it is simply shorthand for the more prolix version?  I claim that it would, for then we would be apt to challenge such a remark with &quot;What evidence do you have that Jones is dishonest?&quot;, rather than &quot;Would you rather I vote for that child molester, Smith?&quot;  The latter invites further character assassination of Jones, if not impeachment of his entire lineage.  Perhaps I'm just a stuffy academic, but I can't help thinking that the introduction of a bit of cool logic into every-day discourse would lower our collective blood pressure and maybe, just maybe, allow us to occasionally see beyond our prejudices.<br />This wonderful little book lists 44 specific suggestions, or &quot;rules&quot;, for injecting much-needed logic into argumentative discourse.  In the author's words, each rule is &quot;illustrated and explained soundly but above all briefly&quot;; Hence, to Weston the book is a &quot;rulebook&quot; not a textbook.  Weston continues &quot;In this book, 'to give an argument' means to offer a set of reasons or evidence in support of a conclusion.&quot;  This is in contrast to the variety accompanied by loud invective and broken china.<br />Throughout the book, Weston offers advice that we would all do well to remember.  For example, he reminds us that one can neither craft nor analyze an argument by merely consulting our prejudices, and that &quot;it is your reasons, not your language, that must persuade.&quot;  With regard to language, Weston asserts that prejudicial or loaded language &quot;preaches only to the converted, but careful presentation of the facts can itself convert.&quot;  Moreover, &quot;It is not a mistake to have strong views.  The mistake is to have nothing else.&quot;  Well put. <br />Weston also injects some broadly applicable principles of critical thinking (although he does not label them as such).  For instance, in contemplating possible solutions, explanations, or causes, he urges us to continually look for more options, rather than immediately narrowing them.  In so doing, we can state our case more fairly, and possibly head off objections more effectively. But perhaps the most important admonition is this: &quot;If you can't imagine how anyone could hold the view you are attacking, you just don't understand it yet.&quot;  Imagine a world in which all disputants took this to heart!<br />Beginning with short arguments consisting of a sentence or two, Weston builds to a chapter on crafting effective long arguments.  As usual, Weston anticipates common blunders and warns us, for example, to first &quot;find out what each side considers the strongest arguments for its position.&quot;  He then prepares us for the inevitable process of rewriting and reorganizing our arguments as we accumulate evidence and analyze positions on all sides.  He coolly advises us to adopt a different strategy, or even a different conclusion, should we discover that our initial inclinations are not adequately supported by the available evidence.  While this may seem obvious, it would be wonderful if everyone actually did this.<br />Weston provides some concrete advice on writing, such as developing one idea per paragraph, getting to the point quickly, and stating the conclusion clearly and directly.  According to Weston, you ought not &quot;fence more land than you can plow.  One argument well-developed is better than three only sketched.&quot;  To do otherwise would be like &quot;preferring ten very leaky buckets to one well-sealed one.&quot;  Finally, Weston urges us to preemptively raise possible counter-arguments and to develop them in sufficient detail that our readers will fully appreciate the position we are disarming.<br />The book includes a short but helpful chapter on fallacies, focusing primarily on the two &quot;great fallacies&quot; of generalizing from incomplete information and overlooking alternative explanations.  One angle that I found illuminating is that several classic fallacies are in fact species of &quot;overlooking alternatives&quot;, such as &quot;affirming the consequent&quot;, &quot;denying the antecedent&quot;, and &quot;false dilemma&quot;.  Several fallacies were discussed in this chapter that I have not encountered elsewhere, at least not by these names: specifically, the fallacies of &quot;persuasive definition&quot;, &quot;poisoning the well&quot;, &quot;provincialism&quot;, and &quot;weasel words&quot;.  All are tersely but amply illustrated.  Weston concludes with a brief chapter on definitions, of which there are several varieties: stipulative, operational, essential, and genus-and-differentia.  I found these distinctions to be equally illuminating.  As Richard Feynman said, &quot;Toname a thing is not the same as to know a thing&quot;, yet it is often a step in the right direction.<br />In summary, I found this book to be an excellent guide to crafting effective arguments.  Although I have studied formal logic fairly extensively, and even informal logic to a lesser degree, this book left me with many new ideas, and made familiar old ideas suddenly more cogent and relevant.  And, it's concise.	2003-07-01
US	52816461	R3CLVP5XUZIUVL	0262590204	182918244	Encyclopedic Dictionary of Mathematics: The Mathematical Society of Japan (2 Vol. Set)	Books	5	42	42	N	N	Indispensable.  How did I ever get on without it?	If my house were on fire and I had only sufficient time to rescue four books, I would likely grab my four-volume Encyclopedic Dictionary of Mathematics, Second Edition (EDM2).  Truly, this is one of the most useful books I own.  As testimony to this fact one need only observe that there are more bookmarks protruding from my copy of EDM2 than there are pages (well, almost).<br />If you are a mathematician, or if mathematics is central to what you do, you will likely appreciate this collection as it contains wonderfully concise yet informative and authoritative entries on nearly every branch of modern mathematics.  Need to refresh your memory on Radon-Nikodym derivatives and their properties?  No problem.  Are you up on Grassman algebras?  If not, you can look it up in EDM2.  Interested in game theory?  It's in there.  What about semi groups, elliptic integrals, perturbation theory, lattice theory, Hilbert spaces, projective geometry, integral geometry, measure theory, geometrical optics, and non-standard analysis?  All there!<br />But simply listing the topics covered in EDM2 will not give you an adequate picture of its utility.  What is amazing about the book is how much information it can pack into very few pages, yet manage to keep the discussion quite readable.  Don't get me wrong; it doesn't read like a Stephen King novel (nor would you want it to).  But the entries are self-contained and cogent enough that you can actually learn a good bit about topics that are totally new to you.  Of course, you will want to avail yourself of the many cited references to gain a more complete understanding of any given topic, but you will be well on your way to getting acquainted with fundamental definitions and techniques of a hitherto unfamiliar branch of mathematics.<br />Here are several examples: If you look up &quot;polynomial approximation&quot; you will find a succinct discussion that rigorously defines such terms Bernstein polynomials, Chebyshev system, Haar's condition, degree of approximation, moduli of continuity, approximation by Fourier expansions, trigonometric interpolation, Lagrange interpolation, and orthogonal polynomials, and all in FOUR terse but readable pages, with plenty of references at the end.  The entry on &quot;geometric optics&quot; covers Fermat's principle, Gauss mappings, Malus's theorem, and aberration, all in TWO pages.  The succinct one-page biography of David Hilbert is followed by a one-page synopsis of Hilbert spaces.  In a mere eight pages on function spaces it provides what amounts to a condensed survey of functional analysis, covering norms, dual spaces, Besov spaces, the Sobolev-Besov embedding theorem, Kothe spaces, etc.<br />Of course, what you will not find in this book is a single proof.  Nor will you find up-to-the-minute esoteric theorems.  But then I cannot imagine how such a reference could encompass such things; mathematics is far too vast.  Nonetheless, EDM2 has amazing breadth and depth for a meager four-volume collection.  And it is written with mathematicians in mind, so the discussions are crisp and rigorous.  It's exceedingly well done.	2003-06-30
US	52816461	R2NG9UBJ52CPEN	0060006641	545117488	On Writing Well, 25th Anniversary: The Classic Guide to Writing Nonfiction	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Wonderful.  Invest two hours and reap untold rewards.	If writing non-fiction is an important part of your personal or professional life, reading this classic will be a sound investment.  I read this book many years ago, when it was in its first edition, and its wisdom has had a profound impact on me.  I can think of few experiences that have had such a demonstrably positive influence on my career (I am currently a professor of computer science).  I have found Zinsser's sage advice to be applicable to writing technical papers, letters to the PTA, and virtually every other form of non-fiction.<br />Zinsser patiently instructs his readers on how to write about travel or science, how to conduct an interview, how to craft an effective lead and ending, and even how to get started.  Along the way, Zinsser entreats us to omit clutter and clich, strike out useless adverbs, adjectives, and qualifiers, incorporate active verbs, and strive for correct usage as well as unity of pronoun, tense, and mood.  But the overriding messages are clarity, simplicity, and directness.  Keep it crisp.  Oh, and just like driving a car, always signal your intentions (keep that &quot;but&quot; at the beginning of the sentence).<br />Two specific pages in Zinsser's book have remained etched in my mind from the moment I took them in almost two decades ago.  They comprise the most genuine and revealing demonstration I have ever seen in a book on writing.  On those two pages (pages 10 and 11 in the first edition), Zinsser provides a glimpse at the penultimate draft of the very book you are reading, juxtaposed with the corresponding pages in final form; in so doing, Zinsser invites you to critically examine his own writing, while revealing something of his process. This was brilliant.  Those few pages (penultimate draft plus final draft) are alone worth the price of the book.<br />The lessons in this comparison are profound: First, Zinsser himself practices what he professes, but more importantly, even he is prone to inflate sentences with useless verbiage.  What Zinsser has beautifully illustrated is how his writing came to be so tight.  It did not spring from his mind to paper in the form we see; rather, it was gradually shaped through repeated editing, much of it with the aim of removing unnecessary words.  (One could say that he is more like Beethoven, who endlessly rewrote, rather than Mozart, who composed finished works in one stroke.)  I immediately adopted this practice and to this day I devote several final editing passes to the removal of useless words.  I can think of no other lesson that I have learned in my 22 years of formal education that has been so enduring and consistently useful.<br />In the past decade I have recommended this book to each of my graduate students, and nearly all of my colleagues; at times I have simply purchased a copy and presented it to them.  Of course, such a gesture can be taken the wrong way.  It needn't imply that one's writing is in desperate need of repair, but rather that the content is worthy of concise expression.  It was in the latter spirit that I shared Zinsser's book with my students and colleagues, and I believe all have gained from it.<br />Do yourself a life-long favor and read this wonderful book.  It won't take long, yet its lessons might forever change the way you write.  Your readers will benefit, and you will benefit.	2003-06-26
US	52816461	R1UCNH79WBBRST	1555580416	821114573	Common LISP. The Language. Second Edition	Books	5	50	50	N	N	Perhaps the best computer language reference ever written	\\"Common Lisp, The Language\\" (or CLTL) is an industrial-strength language reference for a somewhat esoteric computer language (in the view of most programmers today), so this tome is definitely not for the novice, nor for the faint of heart.  However, if you are a true devotee of Common Lisp, then it is hard to imagine how you can escape this most sacred of texts.  I own two dog-eared and heavily marked-up copies of the book, from which I have gotten my money's worth many times over.  For years one or the other of these copies has been a permanent fixture on my desk, beside my keyboard.  It is an invaluable reference for serious Common Lisp programmers.<br />However, as a previous reviewer pointed out, CLTL is strictly a reference, not a text.  If you attempt to use it as an introductory text, you will hate both the book and the language, which will be your loss.  To learn the language, I would recommend either \\"Lisp\\", by Winston and Horn, or \\"ANSI Common Lisp\\", by Paul Graham.  After perhaps several years of serious Lisp programming, you will most likely find yourself studying the pages of CLTL, at which point you will appreciate what Guy Steele has succeeded in accomplishing in this slender volume of 1029 pages.  Common Lisp is an enormous language, with over 800 built-in functions, many of which have complicated semantics and dozens of keywords that alter those semantics.  Considering the daunting task of documenting this language, Steele deserves a medal.  (In fact, the book has received various awards.) <br />Common Lisp was an integral part of several classes that I taught at Caltech for many years; I had students write compilers, interpreters, theorem provers, symbolic manipulators, numerical solvers, graph algorithms, etc.  When you attack such a wide range of problems with a single language, you appreciate how rich Common Lisp is, and how well suited it is to all these tasks (yes, even numerical computation).  But to get the most out of the language, it's necessary to tap into its more esoteric functions, which is where Steele's book is very handy.<br />I can think of few topics in the field of computer science that have as rich a history as the language Lisp.  It's difficult to present a meaningful view of the language, especially in it's \\"Common\\" incarnation, without delving into some of that history.  Steele does this exceedingly well in CLTL, although I can understand how it can be off-putting to some; it adds bulk to an already formidable tome, and at times seems to clutter up what ought to be a cut-and-dried presentation of syntax and semantics.  However, unless you subscribe to the mystical view that Lisp was created by divine fiat (a theory that is gaining popularity), then you will inevitably have questions as to why things were done in one way and not another.  The answers provide insight into language design (or at least the workings of the X3J13 committee), and at times a better mastery of Common Lisp.  For those who do not care for such details, Steele sets the digressions off from the main body of the text, making them easy to skip.  But I, for one, am happy that this information is recorded somewhere.  (If nothing else, it keeps the creationists at bay.)<br />Like the mathematician Gilbert Strang, who manages to inject humor into the driest of mathematical journals, Steele has found ample opportunities to sneak bits of wordplay and irreverence into CLTL for comic relief.  Not only does Steele enliven his program fragments with snippets of pop culture, as in<br />\\"(loop for turtle in teenage-mutant-ninja-turtles do...\\"<br />but all such references are assiduously listed in the index, which makes it a real hoot to glance through.  Listed there are \\"Mozart, Wolfgang Amadeus\\", and \\"Michelangelo (artist)\\" as well as \\"Michelangelo (turtle)\\".  We also find things like \\"goody two-shoes\\", \\"oranges, comparing apples with\\", \\"square peg in round hole\\", and numerous foods, including garbanzo beans, ice cream, orangeflavor beef, pizza, and peppermint.  Under \\"pasta\\" we find \\"see also macaroni\\".  But my favorite index entry is \\"kludges\\", which directs us to pages 1 through 971; which is, of course, the entire body of the book, excluding index and appendices.  Steele obviously decided to have a little fun, which is understandable considering how dry such books tend to be.<br />But, before you click this book into your shopping cart, you should realize that the complete text is available on-line, and for free.  I'm not sure how Steele swung this with the publisher, but it's out there in the public domain.  Finally, I should point out that there are a number of excellent free Common Lisp interpreters available for many different platforms.  The best I have found is CLISP, which is maintained primarily by Bruno Haible through the GNU Project.  It's reasonably complete and robust.<br />Happy hacking.  May cons be with you.	2003-06-26
US	52816461	RW8DE5J53Q5DH	0195136292	399535438	The Sacred Depths of Nature	Books	5	53	55	N	N	There is wonder aplenty in nature and science	\\"But there must be something more\\" is a common refrain among those who believe that science robs the world of its meaning; those who cannot countenance that we are ultimately elaborate biochemical reactions, that life emerged from non-life, that stars are nuclear furnaces, that the universe began with a Big Bang.  Ursula Goodenough answers this refrain with compassion, patience, poetry, and above all, a command of science and a gift for communicating its achievements and its excitement.  In \\"The Sacred Depths of Nature\\", Ursula Goodenough, a research biologist, presents a series of meditations on the mysteries of nature.  She argues passionately that there are mysteries aplenty within us and about us, and that we needn't invent a supernatural realm.  How can one contemplate the exquisite workings of a signal transduction cascade within a living cell, or the grandeur of stellar evolution, or the complexity of biological evolution without a sense of awe?  As Carl Sagan was fond of pointing out, these stories have far greater richness and beauty than do any religious myths, no matter how richly embellished.<br />As Ms. Goodenough amply demonstrates in this unique little book, science needn't be devoid of awe; its language needn't be dry and unpoetic; its students needn't be deprived of feeling.  In fact, quite the contrary.  The intricacy and grandeur or nature, as revealed by science, is every bit as awe-inspiring as the greatest religious myths; indeed, even more so.  Ms. Goodenough argues that understanding life is like understanding a Mozart sonata.  As she puts it, \\"The biochemistry and biophysics are the notes of life; they conspire, collectively, to generate the real unit of life, the organism.\\"<br />Building on this theme, each chapter explores some aspect of biology, embracing the intrinsic beauty of some complex process, never shying away from accurate terminology, and always employing apt metaphors and analogies that make the concepts accessible to virtuallyanyone.  For example, as Ms. Goodenough explains, \\"Patterns of gene expression are to organisms as melodies and harmonies are to sonatas.  It's all about which sets of proteins appear in a cell at the same time (the chords) and which sets come before or after other sets (the themes) and at what rate they appear (the tempos) and how they modulate one another (the developments and transitions).\\"  Each chapter ends with \\"reflections\\", in which the author grants herself greater poetic license to interpret the lessons of the chapter in a personal way, and to explore common intuitions about life, even as they have been sanctified in religious rituals.  In one such reflection, Ms. Goodenough's declares \\"I have come to understand that the self, my self, is inherently sacred.  By virtue of its own improbability, its own miracle, its own emergence.\\"<br />Even if the reader does not come away with the same sense of awe at the workings of nature as the author, there is one observation that will surely be impressed upon him/her; that it is indeed possible for a scientist, a reductionist, a non-believer, to be filled with wonder, gratitude, and awe.  These things are not antithetical to science; for some, they are integral to science.  Those of us who are scientists typically have appreciated this fact in some way since childhood, although perhaps not as poetically or poignantly as Ms. Goodenough.  For those who insist that there must be something more, Ms. Goodenough's reflections may begin to persuade you that there is wonder enough within a single cell to rival any liturgy, and any cathedral.  How can anyone who even begins to grasp their inner workings ask for more?<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone who wishes to appreciate the poetry and awe of science.  It takes a small but significant step toward bridging a chasm between science, which is too often perceived as suffocatingly impersonal and dispassionate, and the sacred, which is mistaken for the exclusive domainof religion.  My hat is off to Ursula Goodenough.  I suspect that she will help to bring a good many talented young people into science who may not have otherwise ventured to go there, and just as importantly, help to remove some of the stigma associated with science and its practitioners.	2003-06-25
US	52816461	R14I9E826R2QGF	0465006965	262036966	Religion Explained: The Evolutionary Origins of Religious Thought	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A masterful exploration of how the brain shapes belief	In RELIGION EXPLAINED, Pascal Boyer explores the mental machinery behind belief and the dynamics of belief transmission within human societies.  Drawing upon diverse scientific disciplines, including psychology, sociology, neurophysiology, cognitive science, and linguistics, Boyer reveals some of the deep dark secrets of the human brain, and sheds light on the persistent hold that religions have maintained on society throughout recorded history.  The essential observation with which Boyer begins is that beliefs are not transmitted among humans verbatim; they survive only by virtue of complex and largely hidden processes in the brain, which predispose us to make certain types of inferences and to form certain types of memories.  Thus, what is retained and subsequently transmitted is not merely a function of the input, but also of the medium through which it passes -- that is, the brain.  Ideas and beliefs that become stable in a society are those that are efficiently stored, recalled, and transmitted by the human brain.  Boyer explores the many intriguing implications of these observations and supports his conclusions with recent findings from diverse areas of science.<br />This is one of those rare books that can literally change the way you perceive the world; it will give you a new perspective that can demystify many perplexing aspects of human societies -- particularly those involving the bewildering panoply of religious beliefs and rituals.  Why are supernatural beings imagined as human-like, with emotions and quirks, yet able to read the minds or transcend space and time?  Why are religionists keenly aware of what a supernatural agent does, and why, yet never wonder how his deeds are actually accomplished?  Why do religions so frequently involve sacrifices and carefully scripted ceremonies?  Boyer argues that all of these oddities can be clearly understood in terms of a small number of basic templates that we unconsciously invoke as we reason about the world.As Boyer puts it, <br />\\"People build concepts in ways that activate their inference systems most and produce the richest set of inferences with the least cognitive effort.\\"<br />For example, people are particularly attuned to factors that impinge on social interactions -- they pick them up very readily, and store them and transmit them efficiently.  This fact alone begins to shed light on the human propensity to invent human-like gods that are intimately concerned with human affairs.  Simply put, our brains are laden with machinery to discern, interpret, and reason about social interaction; it's what our brains look for and traffic in.  We are prepared to draw many detailed inferences from scant social cues.  No wonder virtually every god is made in the image of man.  Boyer also examines the connection between religions and morality, and argues that <br />\\"Religion does not really support morality, it is people's moral intuitions that make religion plausible; religion does not explain misfortune, it is the way people explain misfortune that makes religion easier to acquire.\\"<br />Boyer supports this type of claim by exploring the underlying templates that give rise to our intuitions.  While there is clearly much more to investigate and to corroborate, the explanations that Boyer provides are surprisingly succinct and powerful; they will allow you to see things that have hitherto gone unnoticed because they are so obvious and automatic, such as our propensity to ascribe intentionality to inanimate objects (if only metaphorically), or to irrationally imbue ceremonies with great meaning and power.  As Boyer amply demonstrates, these things escape our notice not because they are trivial, but because the cognitive mechanisms responsible for them are highly specialized and hidden from conscious inspection.  We can catch the underlying mechanisms in the act only through cleverly designed experiments; introspection is all but useless.<br />There are a number of instances in which Boyer may be rightly criticized for telling \\"just so\\" stories -- that is, engaging in speculation that goes well beyond the evidence.  Although this is often necessary when one is framing a new theory, Boyer occasionally neglects to note when we have left the realm of science and entered the realm of speculation.  On balance, however, Boyer does a marvelous job of substantiating his assertions with findings from  cognitive science and anthropology while managing to keep the discussion lively and engaging.<br />Religionists should be warned that Boyer does not even entertain the possibility that religions arise from some objective truth.  While the astute reader will sense this immediately, Boyer does not state this plainly until page 48: \\"...people who think that we have religion because religion is TRUE... will find little here to support their views and in fact no discussion of these views.\\"  Although I personally have no quarrel with this stance, I would have been happier had Boyer made this disclosure on page 1.  One gets the impression that this is left unsaid until page 48 because the author felt it was unimportant to address believers.  One side effect of this attitude is that religionists will likely reject the book in toto, and quite vehemently at that.  This is unfortunate because the book offers many fascinating insights into human cognition and it is quite conceivable that a religionist could happily agree that it helps to explain all OTHER religions, and the many (wrong-headed) sects within one's own religion.<br />I anticipate many strong objections to issue from believers.  It will be interesting to follow this, provided they refrain from attacking a straw man.  For instance, it would be all too easy to assert that Boyer is misguided, given that he has clearly never had a personal relationship with Jesus, or some such deity, implying that the objective reality of certain religious percepts is manifest to those who have had such experiences.  Unfortunately, this type of attack would miss the mark by a considerable margin.  What one needs to argue is why such \\"relationships\\" have any connection with objective reality, given that the human brain is so intrinsically biased toward social interaction that it will frequently perceive human (or supernatural) agency where none exists.  In other words, the question is not WHETHER one has such perceptions and beliefs, but WHY.  Religionists attribute these experiences to the actual existence of their respective deities, while Boyer and many others argue quite compellingly that they are simply normal epiphenomena of the brain.<br />If everyone can stay focused on that distinction, it will be a fascinating and lively debate.  I have my bucket of popcorn ready.	2003-03-04
US	52816461	R36BGCJ8GQ3YIY	1573928550	449071762	Atheism: A Reader	Books	5	32	34	N	N	A treasure trove of wit and candor	This is a marvelous and eclectic assortment of essays by freethinkers throughout the ages, including Thomas Paine, David Hume, Bertrand Russell, Charles Darwin, Gore Vidal, Carl Sagan, and Robert Ingersoll.  Each essay is beautifully crafted by writers who knew the fine art of constructing a powerful and persuasive essay; each is riveting in its insight or its candor. While a few of the essays are no longer politically correct (e.g. with references to \\"lesser minds\\"), the core theses remain vibrant and still ring true.<BR> <BR>While religionists will scarcely find an uplifting sentence in this collection, there is still much to recommend this book to such an audience.  First, it dispels many of the common myths about atheists: that they lack morals, that they reject god for selfish reasons, that they are ignorant of theism, that there is no meaning in their lives, that they cling to their own religious dogmas, etc. Second, it provides an interesting glimpse into the religious views of a wide assortment of freethinkers, which will challenge your core beliefs, such as \\"life after death\\" and \\"absolute morality\\".<BR> <BR>As an atheist, I found this book an absolute joy to read. Compared to the contorted logic that religionists often indulge to lend an air of respectability to their dogmas, these essays are positively bursting with the wit and acumen that only seem to spring from unfettered minds. Each essay does its part to clear away the cobwebs of mysticism. I will close with two of my favorite quotes from the book. I chose these quotes not only for their insightfulness, but equally for their mastery of language.  This will give you a taste of what awaits you in this book.<BR> <BR>page 49: Leslie Stephen, commenting on religionists: \\"They feel rather than know.  The awe with which they regard the universe, the tender glow of reverence and love with which the bare sight of nature affects them, is to them the ultimate guarantee of their beliefs.  Happy those who feel such emotions! Only, when they try to extract definite statements of fact from these impalpable sentiments, they should beware how far such statements are apt to come into terrible collision with reality.\\"<BR> <BR>page 140: David Hume, commenting on the tendency with which religionists embellish dogmas: \\"Every virtue, every excellence, must be ascribed to the divinity, and no exaggeration will be deemed sufficient to reach those perfections, with which he is endowed.  Whatever strains of panegyric can be invented, are immediately embraced, without consulting any arguments of phenomena: It is esteemed a sufficient confirmation of them, that they give us more magnificent ideas of the divine objects of our worship and adoration.\\"	2002-08-15
US	52816461	R2ZUISVSOZZLZB	1573922145	932256819	What Is Atheism?	Books	4	10	15	N	N	A great gift for inquisitive believers	\\"WHAT IS ATHEISM?\\" is a succinct and lucid explanation of the ideas that the vast majority of atheists will affirm (in my estimation). I sincerely wish that every religionist would read this book, if only to dispel the rampant misconceptions about atheism.  Atheism does not substitute one dogma for another, nor rob one of one's dignity, nor promote immorality, etc.  The typical atheist simply rejects the positive claims of the theist on the grounds that the reasoning is faulty, and that no religion, past or present, has distinguished itself as being more trustworthy or better supported by evidence or logic than any other.  All alike traffic in subterfuge, willful ignorance, and wishful thinking.  Krueger not only explains why the arguments for god's existence are ineffective, but advocates the stronger view that there are positive reasons for rejecting such a concept.  Krueger points out blatant absurdities such as using the Bible in support of its own claims (as Christians invariably seem to do), and summarizes the classic arguments for atheism, such as the problem of evil and the existence of non-believers.  Krueger also discusses the usual theistic rebuttals to these arguments and explains why they do not work.<br />One of the contributions of this book that appears to be unique (at least I have not seen similar discussions elsewhere), is the section on prophecy.  Krueger begins by listing five very reasonable criteria for a compelling prophecy; criteria that I doubt anyone would dispute.  Briefly, these criteria are that a prophecy must be clear (so that one knows when it has come to pass), unusual (so as to be clearly distinguished from common occurrences), written prior to the event (else it can be a fake), difficult to guess in advance (else it implies nothing supernatural), and difficult to stage (so that followers cannot force the prophecy to come true).  This is a simple exercise, albeit one that I never see undertaken by believers.  What Krueger then shows, of course, is that none of the Biblical prophecies unambiguously meets all these criteria.  In fact, most fail outright.<br />If there is an analogous book that argues for theism, I would be quite eager to read it.  As yet I have not found any work of apologetics that is so consistently to-the-point and logically sound as Krueger's book is. (Of course, there are hundreds of books that offer up the standard theistic arguments, such as intelligent design and the cosmological argument, without the slightest acknowledgement of the many severe logical flaws in these arguments that have been pointed out since at least the time of Hume.)<br />The book is not without its flaws, however. The chapter on the incoherence of the concept of god detracts from the otherwise rational and measured attacks on theism. Attempts to reach profound metaphysical conclusions by dissecting our use of words such as \\"omnipotent\\" and \\"omniscient\\" are dubious. A believer can simply assert that the mystery of god defies adequate description through our use of words, which are only finite and limited approximations of reality.  I think it is unfortunate that Krueger indulges this line of reasoning as it seems to follow the same impulse as theists who simply \\"define\\" their respective gods into existence. I remain unconvinced by all such arguments, from theists and atheists alike.  However, these arguments are not essential to Kruger's thesis and can be ignored without appreciably weakening the cumulative case for atheism.<br />Overall, this is a concise and well-presented case for atheism. If you are a theist who wishes to understand why anyone could possibly NOT believe in god, then I can think of no better place to start than with this book. I believe that Krueger has done an excellent job of exposing the myriad misconceptions that theists hold concerning atheists and atheism, showing why the standard theistic arguments are nonsensical, and showing that the Judeo-Christian god is so hopelesslyconfused that his nonexistence is a virtual certainty.  Thus, I believe that Krueger has actually defended the more typical atheistic position, that there is no reason to believe theistic claims, rather than the stronger view that there are no gods.  I say this because Krueger has not really shown that beliefs such as Deism are in themselves inconsistent; while there appears to be no valid argument in support of the god of deism, it is simply not open to the same criticisms as the personal triune god of Christianity, and therefore cannot be \\"disproved\\" as easily.  But, again, this does not appreciably detract from Kruger's main thesis; that belief in god(s) is unfounded.	2002-08-15
US	52816461	R25FESVUI40YRT	080280456X	634891901	Return to Reason: A Critique of Enlightenment Evidentialism and a Defense of Reason and Belief in God	Books	4	36	42	N	N	Excellent argument, Wrong conclusion	I enjoyed this book tremendously. While I disagree fundamentally with the position argued in this book, I have nothing but high praise for the author.  Clark writes masterfully; his summaries of philosophical ideas, even those espoused by his foes, are concise, accurate, and scholarly.  Every sentence is well crafted and carefully reasoned.  You will not find an ad hominum attack or a circular argument in this book.<BR> <BR>Clark's thesis is that the existence of god is not a proposition that is appropriate to deem true or false based on an accumulation of evidence, as we would approach a scientific theory.  Rather, it is a truth that is apprehended immediately and rationally in essentially  the same manner that one immediately apprehends other minds, without subsequent need of rational proof. Clark maintains that \\"evidentialism\\" has been misapplied to theistic arguments, arguing that one does not base inter-personal relationships on objective evidence (at least not entirely), and thus it should be with man's relation to god.<BR> <BR>Ironically, I find Clark an unwitting ally of atheism. I reason as follows. It is well known that the human mind is strongly predisposed to perceiving human faces and human intentions, even where none exist. We see faces in clouds and rocks, and ascribe intentions and attitudes to inanimate objects quite readily. A very likely explanation for this peculiar bias is that such perceptions are an over-generalization of the same mental machinery that allows us to  immediately apprehend other humans and to assess their motives; a cognitive ability that is basic to all social interaction. With respect to this faculty false positives are far less troublesome than are false negatives, which is consistent with our innate tendency toward over-generalization.  From this perspective, one can read Clark's entire book as a vehement first-hand account that betrays the source of religious conviction as a cognitive error; a result of a cognitive mechanism that is searching for evidence of human presence, and is apt to over generalize. In this light it is far more likely that the palpable sense of god's presence is an epiphenomenon of mind, not a perception of reality; in short, an illusion. (Theists will no doubt argue that this inherent sense is itself evidence of god's hand. This is an entirely different conjecture that would demands its own supporting evidence.)<BR> <BR>Despite our diametrically opposed viewpoints, I concur with most of Clark's central argument -- we differ only on the ultimate inference drawn.  Clark believes he has demonstrated the rationality of belief in god; I believe he has plainly exposed it as an illusion.  Alas, even the most carefully crafted arguments seem only to widen the gulf between theist and atheist.<BR> <BR>I gave this book four stars instead of five, not because Clark failed to reach the same conclusion as I did, but because he assiduously avoided asking the critically important question: How is it that our immediate apprehension of other minds can be trusted as valid evidence for god's existence? In particular, there are two enormous problems with Clark's premise that he does not address: 1) Our perception of other minds is on occasion demonstrably wrong, and 2) There is no evidence that this faculty has any validity whatsoever beyond the realm of natural human experience.  Thus, not only is it possible that one's apprehension of god is in fact mistaken (i.e. has no referent), but there is absolutely no basis for claiming that it is applicable to a supposed supernatural realm. Unless Clark can face these obstacles squarely, and overcome them, the more parsimonious conclusion is that the apprehension of god is a mundane illusion, just as Freud and others have surmised.<BR> <BR>The argument that the \\"perception\\" of god is in fact a common cognitive error (due to over-generalization) is explored and supported extensively by several authors, including Guthrie (\\"Faces in the Clouds: A New Theory of Religion\\") and more recently by Boyer (\\"Religion Explained: The Evolutionary Origins of Religious Thought\\").  I urge everyone who has read Clark's book to read either Gurhtie's book or Boyer's book.  I emphatically urge those who have read either of the latter two books to read Clark's book; it is a most startling admission in the light of recent insights into the human psyche.	2002-08-15
US	52816461	R3OC9GWDELYKUL	157884908X	525894077	Living in the Light: Freeing Your Child from the Dark Ages	Books	2	38	38	N	N	A commendable effort	This book addresses a very important issue that every freethinking parent eventually faces -- how to raise your child so that he/she will not fall victim to religious indoctrination.  As a freethinker and a parent of a young child, I am rather dismayed by the lack of information available; I wish for my child to think for himself, and never be lured into accepting irrational dogma on blind faith.  How can I best ensure this healthy outcome?<br />Obviously, there is no 100% effective &quot;inoculation&quot; short of indoctrination, which is precisely what I wish to avoid.  This book makes some concrete suggestions: some are dubious, most are basically rational, and a few (very few) I would even call gems. I particularly liked Ms. Stone's continual emphasis on nurturing curiosity, and helping children to become good &quot;scientists&quot; -- i.e. encouraging them to ask unending questions and to seek answers for themselves.  Perhaps the most insightful and valuable comment in the entire book is that humor is the best defense against indoctrination.  Through humor, one can often broach topics and play with ideas that<BR>might otherwise appear to be off limits.  <br />What I did not like about the book is the rather pointed anti religious tone, such as the use of &quot;godmonger&quot; rather than a neutral word such as &quot;theist&quot; or &quot;religionist&quot;.  While I too dislike those who would  inculcate my child with theistic thinking, I would prefer not to pass this resentment on to my child.  I'd much rather foster a curiosity of and a respect for other points of view.  I feel it would have been much more positive and constructive had Ms. Stone set a good example of sternly but respectfully disagreeing with religionists.  There is entirely too much name calling on both sides of the issue.<br />The book also suffers from many typos and grammatical errors. More importantly, it's unclear where some of the suggestions come from; are they from personal experience,or controlled studies, or are they merely hearsay?  There is no way to independently evaluate the merits of her suggestions. References to relevant studies, or at least more disclosure on the source of the ideas would have greatly increased the value of the book.  Finally, I was not at all persuaded by the author's penchant for classifying children into personality categories; it struck me as very dogmatic and unscientific, especially given the lack of references to studies or other literature that might corroborate Ms. Stone's classification scheme. <br />Unfortunately, I cannot give this book a strong endorsement, despite Ms. Stone's commendable effort, and the appalling lack of books on this topic.	2002-08-15
US	52816461	RQ3EX7W6V94BL	0801099382	363893474	A Shattered Visage: The Real Face of Atheism	Books	1	65	131	N	N	Uninformed and hateful	It is all too easy to imagine that Zacharias has never had a single conversation with a bona fide atheist (that he was aware of), nor read anything on the topic beyond the writings of Nietzsche.  His misconceptions and distortions are so pervasive that I am at a loss to explain it in any other way. I will give Zacharias the benefit of the doubt and assume that he is merely ignorant or misinformed about atheism and neither malicious nor self-serving.  However, Zacharias cannot escape culpability for his complete lack of scholarship; there really is little excuse for this given that he is persecuting a vast group of individuals who share nothing but one simple trait; disbelief in god(s).<BR> <BR>This last point deserves emphasis.  Atheists are an extraordinarily diverse group in every way save one; disbelief.  Some atheists are highly moral, others are not. Some atheists devote their lives to bettering society, others do not.  Some atheists prize truth and honesty above all else, others do not.  The same can be said for theists, and by all accounts in approximately the same measure.  (Although, if pressed, I must admit that from my own limited experience I have found atheists on the whole to have a greater propensity for honesty and compassion than do religionists.  Of course, this does not entitle me to make sweeping generalizations any more than Zacharias is justified in making sweeping claims to the contrary.)<BR> <BR>Regarding Zacharias's lack of scholarship, I will merely point out his most basic and egregious gaff; Zacharias's very definition of an atheist is incorrect. An \\"atheist\\" is a person \\"without theism\\" -- i.e. lacking a belief in god, nothing more.  Zacharias's straw man atheist insists that there is no god, a hardened and dogmatic assertion that I have yet to meet an adherent of.  This is a common misconception among theists that is fueled by the fact that  it is easier to persecute a dogmatist than an open-minded and rational individual who has considered evidence on both sides.  Granted, not all atheists are open-minded (nor are all theists), but Zacharias's characterization of an atheist deftly avoids the large class of people who  have sincerely considered the theistic world view and found little if anything to distinguish it from superstition; hence, they reject it.<BR> <BR>No one is the better for propagating such baseless misunderstandings about atheism.  Would it not be in everyone's interest to face the facts honestly?  Atheists are not immoral, evil, selfish, ignorant, lazy, or possessed; they are simply people, as are theists.  As such, it would seem to be a moral responsibility to present a fair characterization of atheism, even if it does not serve the  immediate purposes of theism.  This would also be the courageous thing to do, as  it would force one to confront the real issues, not straw men.  (Need I point out that it would also be the truthful thing to do?)<BR> <BR>There have been a great many truly gifted and compassionate atheists: Thomas Paine (actually a deist), Mark Twain, Gore Vidal, Carl Sagan, Isaac Asimov, Steve Allen, Albert Einstein, Linus Pauling, Richard Feinmann, and countless others.  It's truly absurd to paint this entire group with the gloom that Zacharias imagines.  I can only hope that Zacharias will one day make an attempt to engage in open dialog about atheism, and that he might make a sincere attempt to understand a different point of view.<BR> <BR>I will close with this observation.  I find that the measure of an author is not in the vigor with which he/she espouses a point of view, but in the fairness they accord opposing views.  Those who assimilate all points of view well enough to portray them with respectful accuracy are usually capable of contributing something of substance.  Conversely, those who construct an absurd \\"shattered visage\\" of an opposing view rarely deliver anything of value.  Unfortunately, Zacharias has placed himself squarely in the latter category.	2002-08-15
US	52816461	R1BFAMOSB6WW9M	0801062578	871191711	The Long War Against God: The History and Impact of the Creation/Evolution Conflict	Books	1	28	96	N	N	A dogmatic attack on evolution, riddled with errors	If I were a Christian, I would be deeply embarrassed by Morris's habitual errors of fact and logic, and above all, by his seething hostility toward scientists and any field of study that challenges his own beliefs.<br />From beginning to end, this book is a ranting, almost maniacal, tirade against the theory of evolution, which Morris attacks so strenuously that he apparently neglects to cast a critical eye toward his argument. Morris's assertion that evolution is the root of all evil (almost literally) is simplistic and riddled with logical errors.  For example, Morris states adnauseam that evolution was central to Nazi doctrine, which he offers as proof that it is &quot;Satan's lie,&quot; and the cause of everything from pornography to the dissolution of the nuclear family. Curiously, Morris is not equally troubled by hideous misapplication of Christian doctrine throughout history. Similarly, Morris attacks evolution by pointing to mystical beliefs that predate it, yet he exempts Christianity from the same scrutiny.<br />Remarkably, Morris fails to demonstrate even the most rudimentary understanding of evolution, offering only naive interpretations and superficial historical facts about Darwin (Morris's devil incarnate). Morris's &quot;science&quot; is so sophomoric he appears to fabricate it on the fly, never pausing to analyze it, or even to check fundamental definitions.  For instance, Morris asserts that evolution &quot;...goes squarely against the second law of thermodynamics.&quot; However, the 2'nd law applies only to &quot;closed&quot; systems, and therefore to none of Morris's scenarios. Morris also asserts that the &quot;...study of biology shows no evidence whatever of evolution occurring in the present,...&quot; which is such a muddle it's difficult to interpret. Is he unaware of 20'th century biology? Would he expect to see speciation happening before his eyes?  Perhaps a more earnest writer could use such a statement to launch a deeper discussion, but for Morris it is the argument in toto.<br />To counterbalance Morris's view, I urge both theists and atheists to read Robert Wright's book, &quot;The Moral Animal.&quot; The contrast between Morris and Wright is so extreme at several levels that you will find it entertaining if not deeply informativet for Morris it is the argument in toto.<br />To counterbalance Morris's view, I urge both theists and atheists to read Robert Wright's book, &quot;The Moral Animal.&quot; The contrast between Morris and Wright is so extreme at several levels that you will find it entertaining if not deeply informative	1999-07-13
