US	52819475	R208PNR8ZL0F8	0060565276	446701844	The Boys of Pointe du Hoc: Ronald Reagan, D-Day, and the U.S. Army 2nd Ranger Battalion	Books	3	13	15	N	N	It's more about Reagan's White House than Rangers	This book has potential for greatness, but unfortunately it falls short of the target. Douglas Brinkley makes a valiant attempt of comparing the importance of the 2nd Ranger Battalion scaling Pointe Du Hoc during the D-Day invasion with the creation and delivery of Ronald Reagan's 40th anniversary speech at the same location. While this approach makes for an interesting read, it simply does not work. Reagan's speech that day (and the one at Omaha Beach) was excellent, but it does not come close to what the Rangers accomplished 40 years earlier.<br /><br />Having said all that, I like this book. The topic is interesting, and the material is solid. It is also pretty short which makes for a nice summer read. But, it just contains too much about Ronald Reagan's White House staff, and not enough details about the brave Rangers who inspired the speech. Of course, my opinion is probably tainted since I enjoy military history a lot more than I do political history.<br /><br />Also, I do not think this book adds anything to the history of the actual event - attack on Point Du Hoc. Brinkly basically compiles details found in many other books. Given his background I was expecting more from him.<br /><br />I recommend this book if you are interested in learning more about Reagan's speech at Point Du Hoc. If you want to discover details about the men who made the brave attack - look elsewhere. RLTW!	2005-08-23
US	52819475	R1AHUR5FSANFGB	0140441387	42442846	The History of the Church from Christ to Constantine (Classics)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Original early history of the Christian Church	This book is truly unique since it offers the reader what many consider the earliest recorded history of the early Christian Church. Simply put there is no equivalent to Eusebius when it comes to early Church history. He lived in the 4th century and wrote 10 books describing the first three centuries of the Church after Christ's ascension into heaven.<br /><br />The greatest value of this book is the insight it offers. I learned several interesting things such as how much doctrine was debated, how awful the persecution was for early believers, and how much the early Church fathers wrote. It is amazing to think all of the books that we do not have a copy of from this era.<br /><br />I really think that every Christian should read some of this book to get a sense of how difficult it was to practice the Christian faith in ancient Roman civilization. The list of those who gave their life for Christ is very long, and the persecution lasted for centuries. We truly are blessed to live in a time, and country in which we can worship freely.<br /><br />I highly recommend this book to anyone who is interested in early Christian history. Hopefully it will open your eyes (like it did mine) to what life was like for the first Christians. A word of warning about Eusebius' writing - some of it is pretty dry and factual, but there are plenty of golden nuggest sprinkled throughout the text.	2005-08-14
US	52819475	R1P6EQQ6CUZTEP	0060652969	21086024	The Problem of Pain	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Lewis probes the intellectual problem of pain	I definitely like the premise of Lewis' book - Christians must be able to explain \\"The Problem of Pain\\". Or in other words, given the fact that we belive in a loving God why is there so much pain and suffering in the world. Definitely not an easy task, but a necessary one.<br /><br />Overall I think that Lewis does an excellent job explaining in a very logical fashion why pain exists, and the purpose that it serves. He covers many difficult facets of this topic in a unique way. I believe that his analogies are very powerful, and well beyond my capability of coming up with this material. I truly appreciate the way he so easily works his way through the material. He was truly gifted by God with a unique apologetic approach.<br /><br />I agree with a few other reviewers that this book is not without fault. Two sections I did not find to be very good were the chapter on the pain of animals, and some of the chapter about the fall of man. The chapter on animals seems out of place, the one about the fall includes some obscure rambling about the origin of man. Not really Lewis at his best.<br /><br />Having said that, I still highly recommend this book to any Lewis fan, and definitely any Christian. We need to be able to provide answers to life's difficult questions, and Lewis is a great source of material for supplying the Christian world view.	2005-03-26
US	52819475	R1OU375Z6F77X1	0844661201	968049324	The Church of Our Fathers	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Enjoyable Church history primer	Roland Bainton is an excellent historian who has a deep understanding of Church history. In this short book he presents the highlights so that any reader can get a nice overview of the Church. It is quite a task to explain 2000 years of history in a little over 200 pages, but Bainton is one of the few who can pull off this task with great success.<br /><br />For those who find history boring, this book will be a nice surprise. It is well packaged. I particularly like this book because it blends the simple facts with personal accounts, poems, songs, and even some art. I highly recommend it for anyone hoping to get a solid primer about the Church's history. For those who want more depth (to include source material references, etc.) this is not the right book, although it would still be an enjoyable read.	2005-03-24
US	52819475	R3PKJ4KY04LVUR	0060652381	453295478	A Grief Observed	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A master apologist  struggles to find God	By most accounts, CS Lewis is considered one of the top Christian apologists of the 20th century. This fact makes this book even more powerful than some of his others because even Lewis doubts his faith when faced with an extremely difficult situation, the death of his wife. Also, this book shows a much more personal side to Lewis as he struggles to find God and answers to his questions.<br /><br />This book is somewhat difficult to read for two reasons. First, the subject is tough. I cannot a harder to discuss the death of a loved one, especially a spouse. Second, the book is based on a journal that Lewis kept which means that the text is not as tight as some of his other books. Oddly enough, these two facts actually make the book stronger than some of his other works.<br /><br />The reader gains deep insight into the soul of Lewis as he seeks God for answers. This is more than just an intellectual exercise. Lewis exposes his emotions in a way that is authentic and real - his writing comes across as very honest. Although I have never lost someone close to me I certainly can appreciate the pain that Lewis experienced. As a Christian I am definitely encouraged that someone with a faith as strong as Lewis experienced doubt, but in the end found his way back to God.<br /><br />I highly recommend this book, especially since it shows a side to Lewis that you will not find in his other books. Also, it could minister to you, or others who have lost a loved one.	2005-03-20
US	52819475	R349OCR84MTRQ9	0792265319	517589387	Mr. Jefferson's University (National Geographic Directions)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A historians view of Jefferson's vision for UVA - fun read	In this short book, historian Garry Wills describes the vision, design, development, and legacy that Thomas Jefferson created with the University of Virginia. First, I admit that I am somewhat biased about UVA since I had the chance to attend Mr. Jefferson's university as both an undergraduate and graduate student. Having said that, it actually helps if you have spent sometime in Charlottesville strolling the grounds before you read this book. Otherwise, the reader may find it difficult gaining a true picture of the architectural design and layout of Jefferson's academical village.<br /><br />This book is a nice tribute to Jefferson's hard work and determination in creating a world-class university. Of course all of his political savvy was necessary to see his vision to fulfillment. Simply put, UVA was a monumental project to complete.<br /><br />Two complaints I have about the book center more around the design than the actual content. First - more pictures would be better in a book of this type. Second, why make a book that includes so much discussion about architecture so small. If anything this book should be an oversized coffee table style book in order to give the reader (especially those who have not seen UVA) a better \\"look\\" at UVA.<br /><br />I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in UVA, and the history of how the school was started. If you are an alumnus you will surely enjoy this book, and it doesn't take long to read through it. Of course, you will want to return to Charlottesville for a stroll down the lawn after finishing this book, so plan accordingly. Wahoowa.	2005-01-17
US	52819475	R2RXPNC8E7UVCW	0156870118	714437196	Surprised by Joy: The Shape of My Early Life	Books	4	9	9	N	N	CS Lewis describes his intellectual journey towards "Joy"	I have not read much CS Lewis (only a few books), so I will not pretend to be an expert about the man, or his writing. I figured that Surprised by Joy would be excellent since it provides a first hand account of the spiritual conversion of CS Lewis. I was not disappointed - it is an interesting read.<br /><br />I particularly like the fact that Lewis not only describes the environment which influenced his perspective of the world and early decisions in life (his family, the death of his mother, his schooling, etc.). But, he also traces his intellectual journey back to God. The influencers are many - the books he read, the friends he made, the discussions he had, and the observations he made about life. Considered by many to be one of the best thinkers and writers of the last century it was fascinating to see the progression of Lewis' thinking about the world in which we live and the God who made it.<br /><br />I highly recommend this book for any CS Lewis fan (I am rapidly becoming a bigger one), or any one who is having an intellectual struggle with believing that God exists. This book may help you unpack some of the baggage that the world presents about this topic. A short word of warning - if you are looking for some \\"light\\" reading this book is not a very good choice. I am not surprised that some reviewers found the book boring - it is not suitable for all tastes.	2005-01-06
US	52819475	R2O3Q7PO9BFDL0	0802808867	746169937	The Anabaptist Story	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Interesting overview of Radical Reformers	In this book, Mr. Estep provides a very interesting overview of those who led the \\"radical reformation\\" in the 16th Century. The author does an excellent job of describing the various leaders, churches, communities, and doctrines which were formulated by the \\"re-baptizers\\" during this important time in the Church's history. I really learned a lot from this book about the Anabaptists, especially in terms of their doctrine.<br /><br />I did have two small problems with the book. First, the author is a little too sympathetic to the Anabaptists when defending the formation of their doctrines. Of course, that is his background so this did not come as a complete surprise. Second, the author does not describe the Munster incident in much detail, if at all. It is a little irresponsible as a historian to brush over this significant event in a book about 16th Century Anabaptism.<br /><br />Despite these two problems - it is a good book which I recommend to anyone interested in learning more about the radical reformation. If you do not know much about this period of Church history, like me, this is a great starting point.	2004-12-31
US	52819475	R3Q9VJ8XFPIDQ0	0385491158	282057521	The Faith: A History of Christianity	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Nice overview of Christian history	In this book, Brian Moynahan provides a nice overview of Christian history. Starting with its humble beginnings, the author traces the major events and people of the Christian faith over the last 2000+ years. Overall, I enjoyed this book and felt it was well worth the time commitment it took to make it through the 800 pages. Oddly enough, I have to commend the author for attempting to cram so much history into less than 1,000 pages. It is a difficult thing to do, and he mainly succeeds, although I felt he did exclude some things that I would like to have seen discussed in more detail.<br /><br />The author writes in a style which is easy to follow, and I liked the balance he uses. Some Christian history I have previously read is a little on the dry side because so much theology is discussed, and the reader starts to get lost in some of the \\"hair splitting\\" that has taken place over the years. Some tend to forget that the story of Christ's church is a mixture of both people and ideas. The inclusion of too much theology can make for a pretty boring read. I felt that Mr. Moynahan does a decent job of telling the story of the Christian Church without boring the reader to death.<br /><br />My one main complaint is the same as a previous reviewer. The author tends to jump around a bit much for my taste, and some of the transitions between chapters is pretty rough. Also, I felt like he practically blows through the last 300-400 years of Church history, and the book starts to take on a little bit of a \\"text-book\\" tone during the last 100-150 pages. Once the reformation is done, the author seems like he is in a rush to reach the end.<br /><br />If you are interested in reading a solid overview of the Christian faith, this book is a good starting point. It will take some time to work through, but I think it is well worth the effort.	2004-11-29
US	52819475	RNT833O7EQDRJ	048641762X	417239079	Erasmus and the Age of Reformation	Books	4	22	23	N	N	Great historian's perspective of a great thinker	Johan Huizinga writes great history. I do not think many contemporary historians can match his prose. He does an excellent job of providing the reader a unique perspective of certain events, and the people involved with them as they unfold.<br /><br />In this book, Huizinga writes about Erasmus, a man who is arguably one of the great thinkers of the 16th century. I did not know a lot about Erasmus before I read this book, but now feel like I have a much greater understanding about the man, his ideas, and the era in which he lived.<br /><br />A word of warning about this book - it helps if you have a pretty good understanding of 16th century European history. If you are a novice, like me, you may struggle through some sections. It is well worth the effort though, in the end.<br /><br />The best thing about Huizinga's book is that you get more than just the history of Erasmus. The author includes a lot of analysis and his perspective into Erasmus' life, which are fascinating.<br /><br />I highly recommend this book to anyone who is familiar with 16th century European history, and wants to learn more about Erasmus. If you are new to this era of history, or do not know much about Erasmus, I would consider reading a more general history before making your way through this book.	2004-11-07
US	52819475	R3G0H03X6L56BE	0310234697	410592075	The Case for Faith: A Journalist Investigates the Toughest Objections to Christianity	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Good book for generating discussion around "serious" topics	First and foremost, I am very pleased that this book has generated so many reviews - both positive and negative. I believe that Lee Strobel's intent is to get Christians, and others, talking about some of the more difficult questions that arise if we take our faith seriously. A lot has already been said about this book by other reviewers, so I will keep my comments brief.<br /><br />Overall, I enjoyed the book. Three strong points drew my attention - first the eight questions covered are good ones. I read the book hoping to add more depth to my ability to answer these questions. I feel like I accomplished this goal. Secondly, the persons interviewed are some of the top Christian thinkers around today. So, for the most part, the views presented are solid. Third - the premise the book uses (and begins with) is good. Interview a man who has fallen away from God (Templeton), find out his reasons, and then try to answer his questions. The Templeton aspect of the book gives Strobel a legitimate starting point before he begins the investigative process.<br /><br />There are some issues that some have raised about this book that I think are legitimate. First - the author does not take a balanced approach. Strobel is guilty as charged, he only interviews Christians. Although, I am not sure how he could have covered the wide range of issues and included opposing views without exceeding 500 pages (probably too long for most, myself included). Secondly, the author is not really an unbelieving skeptic anymore. He was at one time, but he is now a member of the Body of Christ. I think this does prevent, or limit, his ability to ask certain questions during the interviews. Lastly, the book may not convince non-believers to follow Christ, so it probably better serves those who have already made this decision than those who have not. In defense of Strobel, he is not an apologist, so I did not really expect an extremely strong defense of the Christian faith from him.<br /><br />I do think this book is well worth reading, so I recommend it to anyone looking for answers to some of the more difficult questions about faith. If you are a skeptic, hopefully it will answer some of your questions. If you are a believer, hopefully it will increase your faith, and ability to provide solid answers.>I do think this book is well worth reading, so I recommend it to anyone looking for answers to some of the more difficult questions about faith. If you are a skeptic, hopefully it will answer some of your questions. If you are a believer, hopefully it will increase your faith, and ability to provide solid answers.	2004-09-13
US	52819475	RKC118ORMO9PA	0785264310	416258377	Uprising: A Revolution of the Soul	Books	5	10	12	N	N	McManus gets back to the basics	Uprising is the second book by Erwin Mcmanus that I have read. Just like \\"Seizing your divine moment\\", this book challenged my faith, and really made me contemplate my walk with God. The author does not pull any punches when he discusses what it takes to experience a revolution of the soul. I think many readers will be refreshed by his honesty and sincerity of the message.<br /><br />The best aspect of this book to me is how McManus communicates the reality of what is required of us to be successful Christians. It takes our best, it takes time, and it takes a lot of hard work, discipline, and effort. But, we are all capable of it. Through his Son, God has made it possible for us to follow Him along the straight and narrow path. McManus does an excellent job of describing this path, and how to navigate it.<br /><br />I highly recommend this book to anyone who is looking for ways to successfully follow Christ. Even mature believers can learn something new, and experience the uprising that McManus describes.	2004-09-06
US	52819475	R21XCV1FXU4ZNL	0891077243	106543516	Romans (The Crossway Classic Commentaries)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Excellent commentary, even to today's Christians	First, a word of warning. This commentary is actually the first one that I have read completely - cover to cover. I chose to start with this one because I have felt like I never really fully understood the Book of Romans. Luckily Hodge's commentary provided me much needed insight into the text.<br />I particularly liked this commentary because it is complete (offering multiple views on the more difficult passages) without being exhaustive (endless discussions). Also, it is very well written - the precision of the language was much appreciated. Although, I must admit that I had to use my dictionary multiple times to reference some words that are not common in America today.<br />Despite the fact that this commentary was written years ago, it is still very useful to anyone interested in learning more about the Book of Romans. I feel like it truly gave me a step forward in the right direction towards a better understanding of God and His Kingdom.	2004-06-17
US	52819475	RV83K31EMS8X7	0849917719	152659957	Can Man Live Without God (Contemporary Classics)	Books	5	63	70	N	N	Revealing the truth about God through Christ	I should start my review by clearly stating that I am a Christian so I did not have much difficulty with the apologetic arguments put forward by Dr. Zacharias in this book. Still, I was very interested to see how he would go about trying to prove God's existence, and more importantly, explaining how God answers the tough questions of life through His son Jesus Christ. Overall, I was very impressed with the book because of the unique blending of materials that Dr. Zacharias uses. He possesses a deep understanding of his material, and is a master at communicating the message - despite recent attempts to kill off the concept of God - He is alive, and still speaks to us today through His Son, His word, and His Holy Spirit.<br />I read all of the reviews for this book, and I am encouraged that it has received so much attention. Although others may not agree with the author's position, at least, it gets people to talk about things that matter. Real issues that we just don't spend enough time dealing with these days like Does God exist? If so, what does that mean for me? For the world. If not, what does that mean for me, and the world? Is there such a thing as absolut truth? If so, how can we know it (or Him from the Christian perspective). I think that Dr. Zacharias makes an effective attempt at answering these questions, and ultimately, offering the Christian world view.<br />I especially like the fact that he argues at various levels and brings in numerous stories and illustrations to prove his point. Without these elements, it would be a pretty dry read. Some are bothered by the fact that he does not go into great detail about opposing views, but I think they miss the point. Dr. Zacharias is not writing an academic volume which covers every detail and possible outcome of the various world views. Instead he attempts to show that ideas do have consequences, and we must pay attention to what is possible in the world if we try to make it work without God.<br />I highly encourage anyone who is interested in this topic to read the book. It may not answer all of your questions, but it will get you thinking. Also, it is not very long, but be warned, it is not light reading. Having said that, I am confident that the average college educated person can handle it. The copy I bought included a CD with the oral presentation that Dr. Zacharias gave upon which the book is based. I recommend listening to the CD before reading the book so that you have an understanding of the framework, and general approach that the author plans to take.courage anyone who is interested in this topic to read the book. It may not answer all of your questions, but it will get you thinking. Also, it is not very long, but be warned, it is not light reading. Having said that, I am confident that the average college educated person can handle it. The copy I bought included a CD with the oral presentation that Dr. Zacharias gave upon which the book is based. I recommend listening to the CD before reading the book so that you have an understanding of the framework, and general approach that the author plans to take.	2004-06-02
US	52819475	R2KABHRU6A8069	0060652950	94824058	The Great Divorce	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Pondering the perspective of heaven	First I have to admit that I have not read much CS Lewis. Given his reputation as one of the premiere Christian writers of the last century I recently purchased a small stack of his signature series books. The Great Divorce is the first one I have read, and I was truly amazed by its simple, yet complex message.<br />This book is powerful fiction with enough theology to put the gears of your mind into overdrive. In my opinion Lewis addresses two key questions in The Great Divorce - Is there a difference between heaven and hell? And, does God truly give us the freewill to decide our own eternal destination? Lewis really makes the reader ponder these two &quot;deep&quot; topics, and think about why certain &quot;types&quot; of people may have more difficulty choosing heaven over hell.<br />I won't give away Lewis' conclusions, but instead I will highly recommend this book to anyone looking for a short, but powerful book. If you are a Christian you should definitely add this to your reading list. Lastly, if you are not a Christian, don't be afraid to read it. Lewis was a great writer by anyone's standards, and his &quot;theology&quot; is subtle enough to be enjoyed by anyone.	2004-05-02
US	52819475	R1H94LTD1JYJ2G	0385502478	443628680	The Creed: What Christians Believe and Why it Matters	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Strong presentation of the Creed - Christian fundamentals	This book was given to me by my father as a gift after I expressed interest in possibly pursuing an advanced degree in Christian theology or apologetics. It was an excellent choice because it deals with one of the fundamental Christian creeds - the Nicene creed. Overall, the author's presentation about the subject was strong, but I did find a few sections somewhat tangential.<br />The author states that his aim in writing this book is &quot;to make the creed controversial for those Christians who say it, but do not understand it, and therefore, do not grasp what a radical and offensive act they perform when they declare these words every week in a public assembly&quot;. Oddly enough, the church I attend actually does not recite the Creed during weekly services. None the less, I was very interested to see how the author goes about fulfilling his aim.<br />The bulk of the book focuses on a line by line analysis of the Creed, and the fundamental doctrines it represents. Basically, the book illustrates how different the Christian view is from other religions, and the world we in which we eixts. Additionally, the author feels like the Creed should be a unifying way to help the Church find common ground. He realizes that the Body contains diverse views throughout, but he proves the point that the Creed helped unify the early church, and it can do the same today.<br />Additionally, the author offers analysis of various denominations approachs to certain doctrines, such as baptism, the Holy Spirit, and the accuracy of the Bible. It is these sections which are not all successful. For example, pointing out that the modern charismatic movement does a better job of including the Holy Spirit in their doctrine, but go overboard on the issue of speaking in tongues is insightful. On the other hand, worrying about the current gender discussion (whether to use more inclusive language in the Bible) seems out of place. It is as if the author wants to focus on the basics, but cannot help going after periphal topics. I found this distracting at times.<br />I do recommend this book to anyone wanting to learn about the history and meaning of the Creed. I had not thought much about the Creed since our church does not use it, so this book was very helpful to me.p going after periphal topics. I found this distracting at times.<br />I do recommend this book to anyone wanting to learn about the history and meaning of the Creed. I had not thought much about the Creed since our church does not use it, so this book was very helpful to me.	2004-03-28
US	52819475	R10GCXDNNPVYU6	0375725636	8161589	A Serious Call to a Devout and Holy Life	Books	5	68	68	N	Y	Law makes a solid case for pious living	I read this book when I heard Jack Hayford mention it during one of his sermons. Given the title and era in which it was written, I expected it to contain some pretty weighty material about Christian living. I was not disappointed.<br />In this book, Law challenges the reader to respond to his \\"serious call\\" (and he was very serious when he wrote it) to devout living. The author makes a very solid case for this approach to Christian living for two main reasons. First, he is dead right about most topics he covers. His main point is that many Christians (I fall into this category) take for granted what God has done for us. There is no higher call than to love and serve Him. Yet we do not place as much value on spending time in devotion (prayer, reading scripture, praising, worshiping, serving) to God as we should. Instead we lived unbalanced lives in which God has a secondary role, instead being the primary focus of our existence.<br />Secondly, as another reviewer mentioned, his message is as relevant today, if not more so, than when it was written. We live in a day were modesty and pious living are completely ignored. It was refreshing to read a book which calls Christians to a much higher standard - we should not crave the things of this world. It is something I have struggled with, and continue to struggle with everyday that I live in overly abundant America. This book has helped me regain a more proper perspective on the importance of living for God (and what that means) versus living for the world.<br />I highly recommend this book to any Christian looking for a well written resource about living a life devoted to God. Law provides a lot of deep thought about the subject, and practical ways to try and live it out. At times, he goes a little bit too much into legalism for my taste, but overall he is on the mark with his approach and logic for his \\"serious call\\".	2004-02-14
US	52819475	R1NY5P65GD6BU6	0871230437	320361019	The Burning Heart: John Wesley : Evangelist	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Wonderful book about a powerful man of God	I must admit that I knew next to nothing about John Wesley before I picked up this book. What a great surprise for me when I learned about the life of this powerful english evangelist. Skevington Wood has done a wonderful job of writing the story of John Wesley in a historically accurate, but accessible way.<br />The book is nicely divided into 3 sections - the man, his mission, and his message. I found the first two sections absolutely fascinating. Wesley's pursuit of the truth of the gospel is profound. He spends over a decade trying to figure out the essence of Christ's message. After his spiritual rebirth he lives a tireless life of evagelism across his homeland. His lifetime spreading the gospel to his fellow enlishman will be inspiring for any Christian reader.<br />The third part of the book is also strong, but sometimes laden with a lot of theology and somewhat complex doctrinal arguments within the church during Wesley's lifetime. This section, as well as the first two, are full of references and footnotes so that the reader can explore topics of interest in the original source material if so desired.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in learning about John Wesley and the impact his faith in Jesus had in his country, and eventually around the world. Skevington Wood's book will provide you with wonderful insight into the life of this powerful man of God.	2004-01-27
US	52819475	R1TX8L2YYD6LAD	0805424652	733907559	When Godly People Do Ungodly Things: Arming Yourself in the Age of Seduction	Books	4	22	27	N	N	An important message, although a bit wordy at times	First, I must admit that this is the first Beth Moore book that I have read. I have heard her speak before (during a marriage conference), but have not read anything written by her.<br />Overall, I liked the message of the book. It is very difficult to live in a holy manner given the ungodliness that we face everyday in modern society. This book helps to understand the challenge, and offers an approach to prepare for the spiritual battles that you may face. Her warning that mature Christians may face the toughest battles is well placed since we do not talk much about it within the Christian community. I particularly liked her one analogy of &quot;the lion is in the yard&quot; - this section of the book is well done.<br />The book also offers a plan of restoration particularly aimed at those believers who have veered from the straight and narrow path. Although her message is simple, it is biblically based and may be useful for someone who is not sure what to do about the mess they have made of their life.<br />My main negative about the book is that her writing is not very concise. She writes likes she talks and includes a few too many personal comments throughout the text. Having said that, it is just a minor distraction, not a major irritation.<br />This book offers a wake-up call to the church about sin. We face an enemy who is ruthless in his approach to destroy our lives, or distract us from our call to follow Jesus. By reading this book you will be prepare yourself for the battle we face. If you do not think that we are in a battle then I suggest you read this book in order to face up to the reality of the challenges Christians face, even mature ones.	2004-01-18
US	52819475	RQKKPVI7MCPGM	0807013013	417279169	The Reformation of the Sixteenth Century	Books	5	13	17	N	N	Excellent introduction to important time in European history	First, I must admit that I like history, but I am not very familiar with the reformation. Having said that, I think Roland Bainton's book is an excellent introduction to the topic. It is very well written, well researched, and well presented. I was duly impressed with the author's ability to tell the story of what happened - the key discussions, decisions, participants, etc. without boring the reader. You can tell that Dr. Bainton possesses a deep understanding of this era.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone hoping to learn more about this important part of European (and Christian church) history. You will learn a lot, and the author's profound analysis is well worth the read.	2003-12-29
US	52819475	RBVHB80KGIX6B	0785264302	791598544	Seizing Your Divine Moment: Dare to Live a Life of Adventure	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Beware dormant Christians - this books challenges your faith	Do not read this book if you are fully satisfied with your Christian walk. But, if you are like me, and sure that you still have plenty of room to grow read Seizing your divine moment. It will challenge you to take your faith to a whole new level. As other reviewers have noted, this book can be dangerous because it will make you take a very hard look at how you are living for the Kingdom of God.<br />Weaving the story of Jonathan and his armor bearer attacking the Philistine army, Erwin McManus will challenge you to do the same. Not only does he suggest that you take the battle to the enemy, but he thinks that you should lead the charge. If you do God will move with you, others will follow, and those Christians who have fled for the hills may come to your aid. Wow - that is a pretty big challenge to think about.<br />Personally, this book has caused me to do some focused thinking about my role in God's Kingdom. If it will get you to do the same, it is worth the read. I highly recommend this book to all Christians who can hear God calling them to a higher place, but are not quite sure how to get there. If you are a happy Christian comfortable in the safe place where you are - do not read this book. It may just cause you to pick up the sword and start your own battle.	2003-12-19
US	52819475	R2QCLIJ631FK7T	1586608290	292882269	My Utmost for His Highest	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Get this devotional for next year	First, I must admit that I am not a big fan of devotionals. The few I have used before picking up &quot;My Utmost for His Highest&quot; have been rather shallow, and almost had a hallmark quality to them (easy verse, followed by flowery discussion, ending with God loves you). So, I was hesitant to spend a year going through Oswald Chambers book when it was recommended to me by a friend.<br />I am certainly glad that I did because it far exceeeded my expectations. Over the last year, Oswald Chambers has challenged me to pick up my cross daily, and follow Christ with reckless abandon. Chambers does not pull any punches, and he speaks plainly about the sacrifice that is required when we make the daily decision to follow Christ, no matter what the consequences.<br />At times you may question the intensity of the faith Chambers is describing - does God really expect &quot;My utmost for His highest&quot; on a daily basis? But, in the end I think you will become convinced God is always looking for our obedience, and willingness to fight the good fight for His kingdom.<br />If you spend a year going through this book, I think that you will be blessed, and more importantly, challenged to take your faith to a higher level. Therefore, I recommend this devotional for any Christian looking for a resource which can make a daily impact on your Christian perspective, and outlook on life. I now understand why this book is consider a classic devotional by many in the Christian community.	2003-12-03
US	52819475	R1V270RVUPC8ZT	0631225285	459984789	Christian Theology: An Introduction 3rd Edition	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Thorough introduction to Christian Theology	I read this book in hopes of teaching myself some of the basics of Christian Theology. My selection of this text was the right one. In it, Alister Mcgrath gives an excellent overview of Christian thinking and theology in an unbiased, and informative style.<br />Don't be fooled though, the book is not an easy read. It is long, and discusses some pretty complex subjects relating to Christian doctrine. Having said that, the book is an enjoyable read if you interested in this topic. And although the book is used as a textbook, it does not read like one.<br />As many others have stated, Mcgrath does an excellent job of covering a wide range of Christian theology, and the various positions associated with each. He remains objective througout, and does not see a need to include any of his own opinions - which is nice considering the difficulty of understanding some of the topics included.<br />I highly recommend this book for anyone wanting to learn basic Christian theology. It is especially useful if you are like me - trying to teach yourself without the aid of a college professor. Lastly, the book is well documented, so my Amazon wishlist has grown by leaps and bounds with the various texts that are referenced. Therefore, be careful - if you like to buy books this one could cause future damage to your wallet.	2003-11-29
US	52819475	R388IZIQ3FYH5C	083082233X	13566057	Out of the Saltshaker & into the World: Evangelism As a Way of Life	Books	4	26	26	N	N	Practical approach to lifestyle evangelism	In this book, Rebecca Manley Pippert gives some very practical advice on how to use lifestyle evangelism when attempting to share your Christian faith with others. The main theory of the book (which I agree with) is that most Christians don't know how to share their faith, and most non-Christians are scared of being victimized by aggressive evangelism techniques (if you were to die today - where would you go?). Her basic solution is for Christians to relax, use the Bible, and let our lives provide the witnes to our faith. Seems like pretty simple stuff, but it can actually be quite challenging (especially if someone responds to the Gospel when presented with it).<br />The book is full of stories from her experience which help illustrate her points (both success stories and failures are included). They also provide some humor which I think is the author's attempt to say that we Christians need to lighten up a little when it comes to evangelism.<br />Although there is nothing extremely profound, or new in this book, I do think the author does a good job of explaining how Christians should use Jesus' behaviour as our example when trying to reach others. Also, the chapters about Jesus and the Pharisees were pretty well done.<br />Overall, I recommend this book for any Christian wanting to learn more about evangelism, and practical ways to bring God's light into your world. If you have read and liked any of Jim Petersen's books about evangelism then I think that you will enjoy this one also.	2003-11-12
US	52819475	R2W6VQPIOIOF3	0785274308	425047162	Failing Forward: Turning Mistakes Into Stepping Stones for Success	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Well structured book of encouragement	I have read a few of John Maxwell's books about leadership and found them all to be insightful. In fact, he is usually one of the first authors I recommend to anyone looking for a book about leadership. I particularly enjoyed this book because it brings a somewhat different perspective to failure - a practical one.<br />We all have heard the cliches about &quot;staying the course&quot;, and &quot;not giving up&quot;, but this book adds layers of details about failure that you will probably not find in other books. Maxwell goes step-by-step into the numerous facets that can determine the differenc between success and failure. Having finished the book, I am more inspired to get busy, and make things happen - even if it means failing forward a few times.<br />Also, I especially liked the fact that John Maxwell includes numerous stories about those who have failed (usually numerous times) before achieving their goals. The stories help illustrate the points he makes throughout the book, and prove that it takes determination, effort, hard work, and sacrifice to get through the obstacles that you will face while chasing your dreams.<br />I highly recomend this book to anyone interested in learning practical strategies for achieving your goals and dreams. The exercises at the end of each chapter will help put Maxwell's concepts into action for your own life. Good luck.	2003-11-05
US	52819475	R219WT96EU2CQ8	0385508719	254491312	Every Second Counts	Books	3	27	43	N	N	Decent follow-up to first book	As a fan of Lance Armstrong, and his accomplishments on the bike, I bought this book hoping to get some insight into his career and life the past few years. But, as some other reviewers have mentioned the first book is better, and there is not much new material in this one. Many of the chapters contain material from previous articles, or updates from his web site. Even the last chapter on this year's tour is not really all that great (it sounds rushed, and probably was in order to be included in the book). The result, is a decent book, which is worth buying if you are a fan.<br />There are some encouraging sections to this book, which many readers will enjoy as Lance struggles to find balance in his life. He seems to be asking all the right questions like how does he continue winning Le Tour, and spend enough time with his wife and kids so that he is not a failure at home. Or, how should he give back to the cancer community, or respond to the riduculous doping charges. These discussions are all pretty interesting, and make for pretty good reading.<br />But, in the end I am bothered by his ultimate conclusions. To say that &quot;too many people look at religion as an excuse, or a crutch, or a bailout&quot; and that &quot;even when I was looking straight at death, I never thought there was something on the other end&quot; makes me think that after all he has been through he still doesn't get it.<br />I hope that Lance keeps winning Le Tour, and keeps searching for the truth. Perhaps one day he will find it. And maybe, just maybe he will figure out a way to save his marriage also. It is a shame to think that after all they have been through that they are throwing in the towel now.	2003-10-28
US	52819475	R3LIVCKCA40UFK	083082250X	637972625	Know Why You Believe	Books	4	23	24	N	N	Nice summary of answers to common questions	My wife asked me to read this book to see if it was any good- so I did. Like most reviewers, I enjoyed this book despite its simplicity. It is pretty short, easy to follow, and worth the time spent reading it. I was somewhat familiar with certain sections of the book, but enjoyed the pragmatic way that Paul Little presents the Christian view to the reader.<br />The context for the book is that Paul Little wanted to provide answers to the 12 most common questions he received when discussing Christianity on college campuses. He fulfills his purpose, and provides many references, and additional materials to research if you want to go deeper into any particular subject.<br />You will most likely not be interested in all 12 topics discussed, but it makes sense that most Christians should have some familiarity with these questions, and the basic answers provided in this book. I recommend this book to anyone looking for a quick introduction to apologetics, or different ways to answer the questions that may arise as you share your faith with others.	2003-10-22
US	52819475	R38TY44NKNS0Q5	0425179613	495393406	It's Not About the Bike: My Journey Back to Life	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Tells the gripping story of Lance's survival	The Lance Armstrong story is pretty well known by now. If you want to know the details of exactly what happened, and how he survived, then read this book. As everyone has mentioned it is not very well written, but that makes for a quick read. Lance's return from cancer is inspirational, and his cycling achievements since then remarkable. Thus, I recommend this book to anyone interested in learning more about Lance Armstrong.<br />Lastly, I will mention that one reason I read the book was to see what kind of perspective on life Lance has after coming so close to death. It is nice to see that someone is talking about the life and death issues that we somehow neglect in our modern world, but I must admit that I was disappointed by his ultimate answers and conclusions.<br />As a Christian, I cannot fathom keeping God from my life, especially when I need Him the most. Lance's belief that it was the miracle of medicine and his own willingness to fight that brought him back from cancer seems somewhat shallow. I hope and pray that he continues to search for the answers to life's great mysteries.	2003-10-22
US	52819475	R1FAWU9L3QLWMM	080782786X	967883985	The Shenandoah Valley Campaign of 1862	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Essays cover various aspects of well known campaign	With this book, Gary Gallagher continues his efforts to add details to well known Civil War campaigns by compiling essays from a variety of authors. In Gallagher's opinion, most Civil War battles have already been covered well enough by one author or another in narrative form. Thus, the challenge becomes, how can greater detail and insight be presented without simply rehashing the same facts and figures of previous works. His campaign series takes the approach that it would be interesting to have noted Civil War historians present detailed essays about various military aspects of a certain campaign. Typically, these books have resulted from summertime battlefield tours that Dr. Gallagher offers through his university history department (first with Penn State, and now with UVa).<br />The Shendandoan Valley Campaign of 1862 is somewhat different than previous installments of this series for two main reasons. First, even Gallagher admits that a great overall narrative of this campaign has not been written. Most people know of the campaign, but they do not really know the details of what happened. I fall into this category. I know the basic plot of Stonewall Jackson helping save Richmond through his military exploits and victories against a handful of bumbling Union generals in the Shenandoan Valley. These essays have definitely helped broaden my understanding of what actually occurred.<br />Secondly, as a previous reviewer mentioned, this book does not have much of a military focus. Instead, it covers a wide gamut of topics. I like the variety and enjoyed most of the essays, but I must admit that a few of them seem somewhat misplaced in a military campaign series. The first few essays discuss Jackson's success, and the impact it had on Union plans, and I would have like to see more of these type essays included. That is my main criticism of the book. Although I found all eight essays well written, at least two of them were not very interesting.<br />Despite its flaws, I still recommend this book to anyone interested in learning more about this campaign. If you are looking for a book that details the various battles fought during the campaign, this is not the right book for you. But, if you are looking for a broad perspective of the campaign, and how it impacted those involved (soldiers, generals, civilians, and government leaders), then you will be pleased by the contents of this book.I still recommend this book to anyone interested in learning more about this campaign. If you are looking for a book that details the various battles fought during the campaign, this is not the right book for you. But, if you are looking for a broad perspective of the campaign, and how it impacted those involved (soldiers, generals, civilians, and government leaders), then you will be pleased by the contents of this book.	2003-08-27
US	52819475	R19V3BNYV72D8Q	0785268170	26702666	Anchor Man: How a Father Can Anchor His Family in Christ for the Next 100 Years	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Challenging book for Christian fathers	Having read Point Man a few years ago, I expected to be challenged by this book, and I was not disappointed. In it, Steve Farrar takes a realistic look into what it takes to be a successful Christian father. He starts the book by commenting about the social decay we see in the US and around the world. Simply put, Farrar believes (and argues pretty convincingly) that we have a fatherhood crisis and it is destroying our nation one generation at a time.<br />Farrar then explains the bibilical view of fatherhood and the promise of God to bless a man's family (for many generations) if he follows the plan. The last section gets more into the practical steps for a Christian father to take in order to anchor his family in Christ.<br />Overall, the concept of the book is not new, but Farrar's approach is more straight forward than others, and may come off as pretty tough to some readers. He does not pull any punches when he explains that divorce is not an option, that men need to memorize the Word of God, that there is no substitute for spending time with your kids, and how important the man's role is at home. This book has given me a lot to think about and help me to assess the things I do well versus those areas that I have neglected, or postponed.<br />I highly recommend this book to any Christian man looking for a ways to make your family better, and methods for strengthening your walk (and your kid's walk) with Christ. Lastly, if you are considering divorce, whether you are a believer, or not, you should read the first few chapters of this book. It clearly articulates the danger you face, and the problems your kids will face after the papers are signed.	2003-06-23
US	52819475	R4G4IDHLY19IJ	080782481X	689073906	The Antietam Campaign (Military Campaigns of the Civil War)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Informative Essays about America's Bloodiest Day of Battle	Just like previous reviewers, I agree that this book is a fine addition to the on-going series about the Military Campaigns of the Civil War. This installment about the Battle of Antietam is particularly strong because of the quality of scholarship included and the distinguished group of historians that Gallagher gathered for this edition.<br />Each author includes an interesting essay that details a specific aspect of the battle. Some examples of topics that are covered include: the supply challenge the Confederacy faced, how new Union recruits reacted to the carnage of Antietam, the role Confederate artillery played, and why McClellan failed to pursue Lee after the battle. I found that every essay presented a compelling argument and really offer the reader a detailed analysis that you will not find in other books about the battle.<br />As always, this type of book is not aimed at telling the history of what happened at Antietam. If you are looking for a general narrative of the battle - this is not the right book. On the other hand, it is designed for those who are somewhat familiar with the battle and are looking for the most current research from a find group of historians. I highly recommend the book for people who fall into this category. It will greatly enhance your understanding of key aspects that affected the battle which has been the bloodiest day in US military history.	2003-05-31
US	52819475	R227VJXEWHO7IB	0849917522	179643978	Being the Body	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Great update to a modern Christian Classic	With this book, Chuck Colson and Ellen Vaughn update their previous classic work about the Christian church (The Body). This version is even more powerful than the original, and it covers some new ground that is worth exploring. For instance, the event of 9/11 and how the Church reacted to them is described at length. Colson and Vaughn are right on when they argue that the Church was truly fulfilling its mission after this tragic event by showing God's love in our modern world. As many Christians are well aware, somehow we have once again lost the momentum (and possibly our direction) of that season. This book looks at possible reasons why we have returned to a normal state despite the fact this country experienced events which &quot;forever changed the face of our nation&quot;.<br />Of course, the scope of the book goes well beyond the Christian church in the USA, and the events of 9/11. It looks at the Church around the globe, and covers how the church has succeeded or failed throughout history. In fact, some of the more interesting stories and examples come from outside the US, and deal with events from other eras (the reformation, and WWII). I also like the fact that the authors use many examples from the Catholic church to demonstrate that they too are members of the body, and have made an enormous impact throughout history, despite their challenges (to include the current crisis).<br />Just like the original version, this book challenged me to take a hard look at my own faith, and my role within the local church. For those who feel that Christianity is only a personal experience, I challenge you to read this book, and discover why our participation at our local church is so vital to the Body of Christ. Hopefully, this book will help change your mind, and get you involved with Gods people as they try to bring light into today's dark world.<br />I highly recommend this book to any Christian who has not read it. More specifically if you are looking for a detailed analysis of today's church - this book is it. Also, if you have read The Body, it is worth the time and effort required to read this version. More than half of the material is new. The updates are of the same high quality as the original and result in an even stronger and more comprehensive look at The Body.analysis of today's church - this book is it. Also, if you have read The Body, it is worth the time and effort required to read this version. More than half of the material is new. The updates are of the same high quality as the original and result in an even stronger and more comprehensive look at The Body.	2003-05-24
US	52819475	RBRH2R3Q56R1Y	083081650X	644598495	Knowing God	Books	5	194	200	N	N	Profound book about the God of the Bible	First, I must admit that Knowing God is the first book by Packer that I have read. Luckily, I was not disappointed. Considered a modern Christian classic by many, Knowing God lives up to its reputation. In it Packer presents a balanced view of God - who He is, what He is like, what He has done for us, and what He expects from us in return. I had a pretty good understanding of some subjects before reading this book, but found myself learning a lot as Packer challenged me to dig deeper into the Bible, and apply my faith in order to get a clearer picture of God.<br />I really enjoyed this book because I have been looking for &quot;deep&quot; Christian books that are neither full of fluff (like a lot of the recent self-help style Christian books), or too full of theology to grasp (thick, boring tomes that most Pastors can't even finish). I found that Knowing God fits nicely into this category. Packer's thoughts about God are deep, yet concise. He includes a lot of scripture to support his perspective, which indicates that it is not written for a &quot;new&quot; or &quot;baby&quot; Christian, and he also includes some historical and academic material as well. I liked the fact the he quotes many sources which enabled me to write down the titles to other books which go deeper into subjects of interest to me.<br />Overall, I recommend this book to Christians who have a firm grasp of their faith, and are looking for guidance on how to grow a deeper relationship with God. One of the keys is gaining a better understanding of God, and this book offers an excellent starting point for that journey.	2003-04-27
US	52819475	R3PFTFCV94356G	0195117964	102280953	Drawn with the Sword: Reflections on the American Civil War	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Interesting Essays about the Civil War from one of the best	James McPherson is considered by many to be the greatest Civil War historian in the US these days. His one-volume classic about the War, Battle Cry for Freedom, is the one most recommended to those who want the best book about the war. Therefore, it was with great interest that I read Drawn with the Sword.<br />McPherson does not disappoint with this book which is really a series of essays about various topics from the war. The essays range from Why the South Lost to Who Actually Freed the Slaves. Based mostly on previous articles and lectures, all the essays are excellent, and McPherson pulls no punches during his detailed analysis. For example, McPherson disputes the claim by some recent social historians that argue that the slaves freed themselves, and that Lincoln played a reluctant part in the process. McPherson clearly lays out the argument that Lincoln went to great lengths to ending slavery, and that without him it probably would not have happened.<br />McPherson also gives his educated opinion about Lee's performance as a general, and whether or not the South actually could have won the war. Two topics which I find fascinating because they are so disputed, even among professional historians. Speaking of historians, I particularly liked McPherson's final essay about the challenge that professional historians face when trying to bring history to the masses. He offers a fresh glimpse into this problem, and spells out the potential danger that historians face by making themselves irrelevant to the general public. To find out more, read the essay.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone who is a student of the American Civil War, like myself. The essays will add to your knowledge, and broaden your perspective of the war. If you are new to this part of history, I recommend that you start instead with McPherson's Pulitzer Winning book about the war, Battle Cry of Freedom.	2003-04-16
US	52819475	R2SBY5TVO4FQ95	0425053881	334608074	The Last Days Of Patton	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Revealing Book about Patton's Last Days	I picked up this book by accident when I purchased a lot of 6 military books on Ebay. I owned it, so I figured that I may as well read it. Luckily, for me, I was not disappointed with Mr. Farago's detailed description of Patton's last days. It reveals the tragic ending to one of American's greatest heroes from WWII.<br />The book showed me three key lessons about Patton that I did not know before reading it. First, Patton did a pretty horrible job after the fighting was over. He was not well liked outside of the ETO, which prevented him from finding a command in the Pacific Theatre. Therefore, he was selected by default to help run post-WWII Germany. More specifically he was given authority over Bavaria, the original area where Nazism took root. In Farago's analysis, Patton was ill suited for this job, and he did a rather poor job of executing his duties. Farago shows how Patton's professional frustration prevented his ability to get the job done, and also reveals that Patton had some rather disturbing personal beliefs about the Jews. For anyone who views Patton as their personal hero, I recommend that you read this book to get the whole picture, you may not be pleased with what you find.<br />Secondly, I learned about the tight relationship between Ike and Patton. I have read Ike's \\"Crusade in Europe\\" and that book did not really spell out the history between the two men. Their personal relationship played a key role in helping keep Patton \\"in the game\\" at several junctions, and was a definite plus for Patton. Farago explains that Patton took advantage of his friendship with Ike one too many times which resulted in his eventual demise.<br />Lastly, this book goes into great detail about the accident that resulted in Patton's eventual death. It is a tragic tale which is worth reading. It is sad to think that one of our greatest warrior's from WWII died after the war in a rather random traffic accident.<br />Overall, I enjoyed this book. It is well written, and an easy read. I recommend it to anyone interested in General Patton, or American leadership during the war. It has some material that you may not find in other books about the ETO.asy read. I recommend it to anyone interested in General Patton, or American leadership during the war. It has some material that you may not find in other books about the ETO.	2003-04-10
US	52819475	R3FLHPM7YZLGV0	0306707683	157784617	Crusade in Europe (The Politics and strategy of World War II)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Unique Perspective of War from Ike	General Eisenhower presents a very unique perspective on the ETO throughout Crusade in Europe since he was the one and only Supreme Allied Commander in the theatre. In his role as Commander, he was privy to a vast array of the decision making discussions that took place to create the Allied strategy against Nazi Germany. In this book, he brings to light a lot of the strategic thinking and planning that went into the Allied victory in WWII. Therefore, I would consider this book required reading for anyone interested in WWII history.<br />Having said that, I think that the book does fall short of its objective for two main reasons. First, Ike is hesitant to criticize other leaders for bad decisions, and tactical mistakes. For instance, Ike blames the lack of success in Operation Market Garden more on the weather than the ill conceived plan that Monty used to execute this daring mission. Secondly, Ike does not display much emotion when telling the tale. For example, when Ike talks about the Battle of the Bulge, he infurs that the Allies expected the attack, and felt almost no panic when it came. If you look at books from others involved in the fighting, you get a much different perspective.<br />Overall, I enjoyed this book and wished I could give it 5 stars. It should be a 5-star book, because of the unique position that Ike fulfilled in the ETO. Instead, I give it 4 stars, but highly recommend it to anyone interested in WWII history.	2003-03-05
US	52819475	R39CBAENG0R2R8	0700608370	916794304	The Union Soldier in Battle: Enduring the Ordeal of Combat (Modern War Studies)	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Vivid Details about the Northern Soldiers Combat experience	In this rather short book, Earl Hess goes into detail about what combat was like for the Northern Solier in the American Civil War. Using mainly letters written by veterans, the book explains why most Northern soldiers were able to endure the horrors of Civil War combat, and how this experience shaped their perspective of the conflict.<br />I found the book fascinating. It really gets into the personal history of the war, as seen through the eyes of thos who fought it. If you are looking for a glimpse into the intensity of Civil War fighting, this book will open your eyes to what it may have been like. The only reason I did not give this book five stars is that the writing is rather dry, and merely factual during certain chapters.<br />I recommend this book for anyone interested in learning more about the Civil War combat experience of the Northern Soldier. It was gruesome, noisy, confusing, exhilirating, and harrowing. How so many were able to endure this hardship and keep fighting until the war was won still remains somewhat of a mystery to me.	2003-02-18
US	52819475	R1IAMX3RF94452	0689122004	325950235	The Civilization of Europe in the Renaissance	Books	4	15	15	N	N	An interesting book, but a challenging read at times	Mr. Hale's book is full on insight into the transformation that occurred in Europe during the Renaissance. His research is extensive, his analysis detailed, and his knowledge of the subject extensive. I feel that I really learned a lot about this interesting era in European history. Also, the author uses numerous illustrations and prints when discussing various points, which helped me a lot since I do not possess much of a background on this subject. The book will make for a most enjoyable read for anyone already familiar with this time period.<br />For those of us who do not know a lot about the Renaissance, sections of the text can be challenging. As one other reviewer mentions, Hale takes a thematic approach, rather than a chronological one which did prove challenging for me. Also, some sections are rather &quot;text book like&quot;, and somewhat dull. Overall, I enjoyed the book, but I just found it more challenging to finish than other historical books that I have read.<br />I recommend this book to anyone intersted in learning more about the Renaissance in Europe. If you do not know a lot about the subject, like myself, you may want to find a different starting point than this text. Otherwise, you may end up like me wondering how much you missed out based on your ignorance of the materials provided.	2003-02-10
US	52819475	R2KEXPL4S8AEO1	0553341324	86348126	On to Berlin: Battles of an Airborne Commander 1943-1946	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Memoirs of a True American Hero of WWII	In this book, General Gavin tells the story of the &quot;All-American&quot; 82d Airborne Division during WWII. He is best suited to provide this history since he served with the Division during its entire participation in the European Campaign, starting as a Regimental Commander with the 505th to eventually commanding the unit.<br />General Gavin gives a detailed description of all the operations the 82d participated in during WWII, and adds his analysis of why certain things went well for his unit, while other things were a struggle. I found his analysis of the German's lack of will to particpate in hand-to-hand combat fascinating. Especially since I have not seen this perspective in other WWII books that I have read. Additionally, he provides insight into the Allied command structure and the challenges it faced.<br /><br />I really enjoyed this book because General Gavin provides a unique perspective of the war, much different than other general officers. Due to the nature of airborne operations, Gavin personally experienced the harshness and challenges of WWII combat. Additionally, he participated in numerous high-level planning sessions with other well-known leaders of the Allied Command. Thus, he can connect the cause and effect of how strategic decisions influenced the actual combat operations in the ETO. General Gavin also gives his analysis of the Allied decision to concede Berlin to the Russians - pretty interesting stuff, especially given the long-term impact that this decision had on world events.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in WWII history. For those wanting to learn more about the 82d, or airborne operation - this is required reading. If General Bradley is known as the Soldier's General, then General Gavin should be known as the Paratroopers General. No one knew airborne operations better, and no general had a greater influence on his men and the battles they fought than &quot;Jumping Jim&quot; Gavin.	2003-02-06
US	52819475	R2AFILUNCDP4VZ	0849916488	552884906	Loved by God	Books	4	5	5	N	N	In Depth Exploration into God's Love	First, I must admit that this book is the first R.C. Sproul book that I have ever read. In it, he gives a detailed analysis of God's love. He attempts to answer some very tough questions about God's love, that are worthy or exploration, such as does God really love everyone? Does God really hate certain people mentioned in specific passages of the Bible? and how does a God of love require the sacrifice of His own Son for the redemption of mankind?<br />Overall, R.C. Sproul does an excellent job &quot;digging deeper&quot; into the notion of the love of God. He uses numerous Bible passages, and takes a rather academic approach when presenting his points. By that I mean, that this book is not a &quot;feel good&quot; Christian book about how much God loves everyone. No, it goes much more in depth than that - which makes for a challenging and engaging read.<br />My favorite part of the book is Sproul's exposition about the love chapter found in 1 Corinthians 13. The purchase of this book is worth it for this section alone - it is very well done. I did have one complaint about the book, but it is more about Sproul's theology than anything. R.C. Sproul is a big believer in the concept of election and predestination. He spends a large amount of this book getting into this theory which I found distracting at times, and not totally believable.<br />Having said all that, I do recommend this book for any Christian searching for a deeper understanding about God's love. This book will challenge, and hopefully expand your comprehension about this topic.	2003-02-04
US	52819475	R2VIS5RV52WUW9	0226359948	935894454	The Autumn of the Middle Ages	Books	4	27	28	N	Y	Detailed Analysis of 15th Century France and Holland	First, I must admit that I am not a Middle Ages scholar, and this book is the first one I have read about Middle Ages culture. Having said that, I thouroughly enjoyed Huizinga's book about life in France and Holland during the 15th Century. I am glad that I put the effort into reading this book. I say effort, because Huizinga's analysis is not light reading. No, it is a detailed analysis of Late Middle Ages culture - art, literature, religion, and lifestyles are all covered at great length. Much of it is fascinating when viewed in contrast with the way we live today.<br />This translation of the book seems solid. It includes a lot of text from original documents, many in French, or Latin, but includes English translations in the footnotes section. A few parts of the book were more difficult to work through than others, but in the end I felt like I had gained a new insight into European history. I particularly think that Huizinga's thoughts about the Christian church in this era leading to the reformation make for fascinating reading.<br />If you are interested in what life in the late middle ages may have been like then I highly recommend this book. Keep in mind that it is a historical exposition about this era, not a textbook treatment full of facts.  Personally, it has kindled enough interest in this subject for me to warrant further study- hopefully it will do the same for you.	2003-01-09
US	52819475	R99BBHZ1N83ZV	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Insightful Biograhpy by One of America's Premiere Authors	I have to admit that this is the first book by David McCullough that I have read. I am certainly glad that I did. Although reading the book may seem like a daunting task- it is over 600 pages long, it is well worth the time and effort.<br />John Adams is a magnificent tale about one of the true hero's of the American Revolution. Written in a smooth flowing style, this book provides the reader with insight into early American history. John Adams lives the American dream, by rising from obscurity to become the second President of the United States.<br />The best part of the book are the letters that the author uses to give a glimpse of early America. Written mainly by John and Abigail Adams these letters give you a sense of the thoughts, feeling, motivations, and beliefs of those involved with the creation of America.<br />The other interesting facet of the book is the contrast McCullough draws between John Adams and Thomas Jefferson. Although, Jefferson is remembered as a more important man, and better President, the books indicates that John Adams may in fact have been the better of the two. While others seem willing to achieve their political ends by whatever means necessary, Adams remains true to his values, and sincere in his dealings.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in early American history. It has already won the Pulitzer Prize, and will remain a classic for years to come.	2002-12-29
US	52819475	R2DL7LXMGIG17V	0310245664	64463183	Bible Jesus Read, The	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Yancey helps explain relevance of the Old Testament	Like others have noted, the title for this book is slightly misleading. It does not really talk about how the Old Testament was read when Jesus walked the earth. Instead, the author focuses on a handful of books from the Old Testament to show their relevance, and what they can teach us.<br />As expected, Yancey's writing is excellent, but the results are slightly mixed. The two strongest chapters are on the book of Job, and the Psalms. The chapter about Deuteronomy is misplaced, in that it does not fit well with the other chapters. The style is much different, and it is more heavy on drama, than with substance. The two chapters which are good, but not great cover the book of Ecclesiastes and the Old Testament Prophets.<br />The thing I enjoy most about Phil Yancey's writings is that he is honest, and makes me take a harder look at my own Christian walk, and the questions/challenges that I face. Given that fact, I recommend this book for anyone looking for a contemporary look at the some books of the Old Testament. This first half of the Bible is often overlooked by many Christians, and is full of many books which give you a much deeper view of who God is, what he thinks of us (His creation), and what His plans are for this world. Those facts alone should prompt us to read His word, all of it.	2002-12-24
US	52819475	R10WN0PHPU75SE	0891097759	464795649	Lifestyle Discipleship: The Challenge of Following Jesus in Today's World	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Practical book about building disciples	Lifestyle Discipleship is the third book about evagelism by Jim Petersen. In it, the author explains a sensible approach for people to use when trying to help others develop into mature Christians. I liked the book for two main reasons. First, it is biblically based (the author includes numerous scriptures to support his concepts), and second it is easy to comprehend. Any Christian who reads this book will not feel overwhelmed by the challenge of helping others to grow in Christ.<br />Instead of laying out a complex disciple building program full of tips and techniques, Petersen focuses on how we should live. He believes that it is our calling to model the Christian lifestyle so that others are inspired by our example. We should become &quot;insiders&quot; who impact the world in which we operate.<br />I agree with his &quot;insider&quot; concept, and hope that this book helps me to influence those around me. I recommend this book for any Christian who is looking for ways to make a greater impact for the Kingdom of God. If you have not read the first two books in this series, I recommend that you read those first, before this one.	2002-12-05
US	52819475	R3KI5UADXS6G0I	0671554352	857948047	Overlord	Books	4	103	105	N	N	Find out what happened after the Longest Day	This book fills in a nice gap of WWII history in that it covers the initial battles that followed immediately after D-Day. Max Hastings does an excellent job of trying to figure out why certain parts of the Allied plan went so well, while others seemed to take forever. Additionally, he interviewed numerous Germans involved with the Normandy command in order to give perspective on what the German Army was experiencing and how this affected the outcome of certain battles.<br />I really enjoyed the new material and research that Hastings reveals as he tells the tale following D-Day. His treatment of the US Army is pretty balanced (some units fought well, while other &quot;green units&quot; had a tough time fighting the Germans), and I think he draws some interesting conclusions. His point that American Paratroopers and Ranger units were essential to the success of many battles highlights the success (and misuse at times) of these units.<br />Hastings goes into great detail about why the British/Canadian army struggled so much to take Caen. He has some critical words about Montgomery performance (he promised much, but deliverd little), but concludes overall that the British had a much more difficult fight against a stronger part of the German defense. I really enjoyed this section of the book because I have not read much about this part of the battle.<br />Hastings does talk at length about the mistake of letting the German Army escape at Falaise, although he concludes that the US Army would not have been able to close the gap with the units available.  I do not totally agree with this conclusion, but it makes for interesting discussion.<br />I recommend this book for anyone interested in the ETO, especially Operation Overlord.  If you are looking for a book specifically about D-Day, this is not the best one, in that it covers all of Operation Overlord, not just the invasion.	2002-08-12
US	52819475	R2I40756OXP4VI	0304352896	51986070	History of Warfare: Warfare in the Seventeenth Century	Books	4	20	22	N	N	Interesting reading, but not for novices	First, I must admit that I have not read much about warfare in the 17th Century, other than some articles in Military History magazine.  Therefore, I expected to learn a lot from this book.  I was not disappointed, although I found some sections difficult to follow.<br />Overall, the book is excellent.  The author's research is thorough, his writing detailed, and conclusions well founded.  His main thesis of the book is that warfare in the 17th century was not revolutionay, but evolutionary.  He provides ample evidence to support this point.  He describes the technological advances that changed tactics and techniques on the 17th century battlefield, and also highlights crucial war, battles, and sieges that occurred in this era.<br />All of this makes for some fascinating reading, and the illustrations (maps, diagrams, images, pictures, etc) are excellent.  My one main issue with the book is that it is hard to follow during certain sections.  I think that the author assumes that the reader possesses both a decent knowledge of the events of the 17th century, and of European geography when he describes certain events.  For instance, in the section about the wars of Louis the XIV of France, the author describes battles that occur all throughout Europe within the span of a few pages.  I found myself flipping back to the reference section of the book, and maps to try and keep track of battlefield locations, and the key leaders involved.<br />Therefore, I do not know if this is the best book, if you are new to this era of warfare, like I am.  Otherwise, I recommend this book to anyone interested in learning more about this &quot;evolutionary&quot; period of warfare in history.	2002-06-20
US	52819475	R3HY5GLHSIDHDH	0304352705	436884389	History of Warfare: The Renaissance at War	Books	5	16	19	N	N	A Nice Surprise- fascinating book with excellent graphics	First off, I knew nothing about war during the European Renaissance before reading this book, so I went in with pretty low expectations.  I was pleasantly surprised- this book is fascinating.  Thomas Arnold writes in a very clear style, that is easy to follow.  His research is detailed, but he does not bog the reader down with too many minute details.<br />Also, this book is full of excellent graphics.  It has many period prints, maps, tapestry images, and some well done battlefield graphics.  I thought this illustrations really helped emphasize many of the author's key points.<br />This is the first book in the series that I have read, so now I have rather high expectations for the other volumes I purchased with this one.  I highly recommend this book to any military history student, or anyone interested in learning more about how warfare changed in Europe during the Renaissance.	2002-06-19
US	52819475	R3Q55NJYAZ7RW5	0743216385	867939499	Band of Brothers: E Company, 506th Regiment, 101st Airborne from Normandy to Hitler's Eagle's Nest	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Story about America's finest- WWII paratroopers	Band of Brothers is much different than the other Ambrose that I have read in that it focuses mainly on one company as it jumps, fights, and drinks its way across the Western Front during WWII.  By using the numerous personal interviews that he completed for this book, Ambrose gives a pretty detailed account of E company's soldiers, NCOs, and officers.  All in all, the company is full of a highly motivated group of men who are willing to go the distance in order to achieve victory.  Personally, I enjoy books that give this kind of detailed accounts of battles and events as they happen to the common soldier, or in this case uncommon soldiers- paratrooopers.<br />Having said that, some may not enjoy this book as much if you do not have a good understading of the ETO during WWII. Ambrose assumes that the reader is familiar with most battles, so he does not go into great detail when describing the events as they happen to the men of E Company.  Instead he gives an interesting glimpse into the mind, hearts, and souls of these brave men who represented one of the finest military units that the Army put in the field during WWII.<br />Simply put, E company represents the kind men who make you proud to be an American.  They make the best of almost every bad situation, and do a tremendous job of defeating the Nazis, in spite of every obstacle (D-Day jump), every situation (Operation Market Garden), and every circumstance (Battle of the Bulge) that they face.  The training they endure is intense, and pays big dividends when they find themselves in combat all over Western Europe.  If anything, this book really reinforces the notion that hard, realistic training is vital to survival.  It teaches soldiers to deal with anything they encounter, and builds a bond in the unit that enables them to overcome all odds, and attain ultimate victory.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in learning more about WWII soldiers (especially paratroopers).  If you are not very familiar with WWII, it may help to read something else first, in order to gain maximum enjoyment from the inspirational tale of E Company, and how they helped defeat Hitler's Nazi Regime.amiliar with WWII, it may help to read something else first, in order to gain maximum enjoyment from the inspirational tale of E Company, and how they helped defeat Hitler's Nazi Regime.	2002-06-14
US	52819475	R1IV5KT64ZGE13	0525242627	504509381	Dresden 1945: The Devil's Tinderbox	Books	4	24	28	N	N	Interesting account of a tragic event	Alexander McKee provides an interesting account of a tragic event from the last year of WWII.  In it, he describes the horrific bombing of Dresden by the British and American planes by using many first-hand accounts from victims of the bombing.  He also attempts to explain why the bombing happened, and why the Allies decision to punish this German city (mainly filled with innocent civilians and refugees) was a mistake.<br />I recommend the book to anyone who is interested in finding out more about this air raid so that you can come to your own conclusion about whether or not &quot;Operation Thunderclap&quot; was needed or justified.  Mr. McKee's opinion is that the British made a terrible mistake by pushing for this type of raid (fire bombing of a major cultural center) and should not have targeted the old part of the city, knowing that it would have been full of innocent civilians and refugees.<br />The descriptions of the bombing are detailed, and at times graphic.  You will most likely feel sympathy for the victims as they struggle to survive the bombings.  But, my one complaint about the book is that it does not do a very good job of putting this event into the larger framework of the war.  Therefore, it is hard to draw a final conclusion about this event, based solely on reading this book.<br />In my mind, the bombing was ordered for one of three possible reasons.  First, the US and Britain may have been trying to help the Russians win the war along the Eastern front.  Not a likely scenario since military targets were not bombed.  Second, perhaps the Russians needed a large demonstration of US and British air power.  To me, this scenario is also less likely, although possible.  Finally, the bombing may have been ordered to punish the German people for starting the war.  Personally, I find this scenario most likely, especially since this lesson has not been forgotten.<br />I can say that because my mother comes from Dresden, and I have many family relatives who survived the bombing.  I have discussed the bombing with them, and it made a lasting impact on everyone who witnessed it.  Also, you can still see the effects it had on the city if you visit today.<br />If you are interested in this subject, I recommend the book.survived the bombing.  I have discussed the bombing with them, and it made a lasting impact on everyone who witnessed it.  Also, you can still see the effects it had on the city if you visit today.<br />If you are interested in this subject, I recommend the book.	2002-06-11
US	52819475	R39FA9P37QE39G	0684826976	646280776	Undaunted Courage:  Meriwether Lewis, Thomas Jefferson, and the Opening of the American West	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Interesting Description of Epic American West Adventure	Like other Ambrose books that I have read, Undaunted Courage is well written and researched. It tells the tell of Lewis and Clarks' great adventure across the USA. I have not read much of anything about this epic adventure before finishing this book, so I expected to learn a lot from one of America's best historians- I was not disappointed.<br />You get some great insight into what America was like in the early 1800s. America was full of great promise (the pioneer spirit, the land of opportunity, etc), but we also faced some serious problems (treatment of blacks, indians, woman, etc). One of the great ironies of the book is that some of the people who help Lewis and Clark to fulfill their mission, are treated the worst by the pair. Makes you wonder how such highly educated men (to include President Jefferson) could be so wrong about certain things, yet inspire others to accomplish great deeds.<br />Ambrose is a great storyteller, one of the best. His passion runs deep for this subject, so he gets long winded (as many other reviewers have noted) at times in the narrative. I think that is my main complaint about the book. Ambrose takes forever to get the explorers across the country, but returns them in a whirlwind. The book would have been better served if Ambrose took a more balanced approach to the expeditions timeline, giving equal weight to both parts of the trip.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in learning more about the cross-country adventure of Lewis and Clark. If you are ignorant about the subject, like I was (I thought it was just the pair with their female indian guide for most the trip), you will gain greater insight into one of America's truly historic events. Lastly, this book will make you appreciate many of the advancements we have made since then (i.e- transportation and communication systems), although it may also make you want to spend more time enjoying the wonderful outdoor parks of America.	2002-06-05
US	52819475	R144837HCWBHHL	0807847534	128517052	The Third Day at Gettysburg and Beyond (Military Campaigns of the Civil War)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Insightful Essays about 3rd day at Gettysburg and aftermath	This book follows the standard format of all Gary Gallagher Military Campaigns of the Civil War books.  It contains six essays about various aspects pertaining to the last day at Gettysburg and the immediate aftermath of the battle.  Overall the book is solid in that it discusses some of the latest scholarship and academic findings about Gettysburg, and covers a wide range of topics.  I enjoy this in depth analysis of battles, while others may find this type of history book slighly dry.<br />Gary Gallagher's essay about the impact the loss at Gettysburg had on the Confederate Army and civilian population is very interesting, and probably the best essay from the book.  I did not realize that Vicksburg was considered a much greater loss for most Confederates.  Not until Lincoln's address does the magnitude of what happened really sink into the hearts and minds of both sides.<br />Both, Piston's essay about the relationship between Lee and Longstreet during the battle, and Reardon's essay about Pickett's charge, are well researched and written.  Robert Krick's essay about the shared history between Generals Armistead and Garnett is a bit long and somewhat boring.  Robert Bee's essay conveys a very personal view of the Battle through the letters of one of the participants.  I find these types of eye witness accounts fascinating.  Finally, Greene argues that Meade was not overly cautious in his pursuit of Lee.  Greene presents some decent arguments, but I was not convinced that Meade did not prolong the war through his slow advance towards the defeated Confederate Army.  Of course, all this changes once Grant is put in command over Meade.<br />I recommend this book for anyone who is very interested in the Battle of Gettysburg.  If you are looking for fresh, relevant, and current material about the third day of the battle, then you will enjoy this book.  For those who have read other books in the campaign series and liked them, you will most likely enjoy this one also.	2002-05-30
US	52819475	RWMFKCEFWS4CU	0385086903	34649879	Decisive day;: The battle for Bunker Hill	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Compelling Description of Important American Battle	This is the first Revolutionary War book that I have read, so I consider myself a novice in this field.  Having said that, I have a fair amount of military history and really enjoyed this book.  Ketcham's account of this famous battle is detailed, well researched, well written, and easy to follow.  He does an excellent job of telling the story of what happened during this dramatic battle from both the American and British perspective.  Addtionally, he gives extensive background information about the key events, and players that are involved in this &quot;high stakes&quot; battle without boring you.<br />I learned a lot about the battle, and feel that I have a much better understanding, and appreciation for what took place on that fateful afternoon.  I highly recommend it to anyone interested in the battle, or learning more about the men who fought the Revolution, and the odds they faced.	2002-05-22
US	52819475	R2CR5MIVPCPA29	067416055X	305697349	The Confederate War	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Gallagher's views on the Confederate War experience	If there is one thing I like about Gary Gallagher it is that he is determined to try and get things right when he discusses the Civil War.  Unlike some other historians, he is not afraid to use a blend of perspectives (battlefield, cultural, political, etc.) when trying to explain or discover what happened, or more importantly, why things turned out a certain way in the Civil War.  This book represents his attempt to discuss the Confederate war experience as it unfolded.<br />This book is classic Gallagher in that he uses a series of essays to really dig deep into many Confederate issues like: Why did the Confederates lose the war? How did they make it last so long? Was the Confederacy doomed from the start? Did most Southerners support the War, and/or believe in the cause?  He augments his arguments with statistical analysis, passages from letters, and other supporting documents.  Overall, he does a solid job of supporting his theory that historians should focus more energy into the question of How did the South make the war last so long instead of why did the South lose the war.<br />Some may find this book a bit dry since Gallagher spends many pages discussing other historians works.  But, if you are interested in trying to see the war from the Southern perspective, then you will most likely enjoy this book.  It is an interesting array of material from one of today's best Civil War scholars.	2002-05-21
US	52819475	R2O4791SC8KWZG	0844665509	260143252	A Stillness at Appomattox (Army of the Potomac, Vol. 3)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Outstanding conclusion to a classic trilogy	Just like the first two books of Bruce Catton's trilogy about the Union Army, this one is outstanding.  In fact, I think that I enjoyed this one the most out of the three, although I recommend reading the whole series in order to get the most out of Catton's writing.<br />In this book, Catton covers the last two years of the war (after Grant takes command), ending with the Confederate surrender at Appomattox.  Catton's writing is captivating and revealing as he tells the story of how the Civil War became a brutal fight between two determined sides.  Both of them willing to fight until the bitter end, and determined not to yield.  The battlefield descriptions from the overland campaign are riveting.  You truly get a sense of the horror the common soldier (and young officers) faced during this brutal fights.<br />Once again, Catton's prose is engaging and insightful.  He tells numerous stories from the point of view of the common soldier in order to give the reader a sense of what is might have been like to fight in the Civil War.  Also, his descriptions of General Grant, Sheridan, and Meade reveal a lot about the character and personality of the men who lead the Union Army to victory.<br />I highly recommend this book (and the entire trilogy) to anyone interested in the Civil War.  If you have not read much about the Union Army, this trilogy is a great starting point.  I have been reading a decent amount about the Civil War the past few years, and nothing I have read truly surpasses this series.  Enjoy.	2002-05-20
US	52819475	R1JGRLCN9T9PJ	0253338220	116795224	The Myth of the Lost Cause and Civil War History	Books	4	66	83	N	N	Interesting Essays about Southern Civil War History	Having just finished this book, I see why some of the essays have caused some controversy.  It takes a hard look at the facts of the war, versus what has been presented as accurate history by many Southern leaders and writers.  Simply put, some of the authors openly question many commonly held views, particularly those proposed by people interested in justifying the South's loss, or reasons for leaving the Union.<br />Overall, the essays are solid: some great, some good, and a few are only okay.  I found Alan Nolan's, Gary Gallagher's, and Jeffrey Wert's essays to be most compelling.  They are all well written, researched, and argued.  Also, the topics they cover are interesting.  Although I do not agree with Alan Nolan's low opinion of General Lee as a soldier, the rest of his essay takes many of the myths of the &quot;Lost Cause&quot; head-on, and dispells them convincinly.<br />Two of the essays I did not find very exciting: Keith Bohannon's, or Charles Holden's.  The topic were too narrow for my taste. The other essays are all good, and helped add to my understanding of the war.<br />I recommend this book to anyone who is a Civil War &quot;buff&quot;, or student of the war.  If you think that the war was not fought over slavery, but only states rights, you should explore the discussion of this topic in numerous essays.	2002-05-05
US	52819475	R2FX7E1YDR6QAU	0844667900	623272056	Glory Road	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Another classic Catton saga	Agree with the other reviews that Glory Road is another classic book from Bruce Catton's saga trilogy about the Federal Army. A superb follow-up to Mr. Lincoln's Army.  I think that I actually enjoyed this book more, but I recommend starting from the beginning of the trilogy, if possible.<br />The thing I enjoyed most about this book is the writing, and solid research.  Catton's prose flows easily from page to page and tells the fascinating human drama of the civil war.  He does not get bogged down in too many details, and manages to cover the middle years of the war in just a few hundred pages.<br />Also, his research is solid (especially considering the book was written in the early 1950s), and most of his conclusions have stood the test of time.  I can see why many historians consider Bruce Catton to be one of the forerunners to today's enormously successful Civil War authors.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in the Civil War.  If you have not read much about the subject, this trilogy is a great starting place to learn about the Federal Army.  The &quot;Civil War buff&quot; will also enjoy this book, if it is not already in your library.	2002-05-01
US	52819475	R3PFVSWYT24Q0T	0844667919	260143252	Mr. Lincoln's Army	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Outstanding overview of McClellan's Army	As other reviewers have mentioned, Bruce Catton is considered to be one of the best authors to read if you are interested in the Civil War.  Despite many recommendations from others I had not read any of Catton's books until now.  Having just finished Mr. Lincoln's Army, I can finally understand why Mr. Catton has received so many accolades (to include the Pulitzer prize).  This book is an outstanding introduction to General McClellan, and the Army he commanded.<br />I truly enjoyed this book for several reasons.  First, the writing style is excellent.  This book is not boring history (facts, figures, hyposthesis, conclusion).  Instead, Catton tells the interesting story of what happened to the Federal Army from the beginning of the war up until the battle of Antietam.  The book reads more like a good novel, than a history text book.  Having read many Civil War authors, I would put Catton in the top category.<br />Secondly, Catton includes many observations and stories from the everyday soldier which add vivid details to events as they unfold.  His description of the Battle of Antietam comes alive when he includes descriptions of what the men who fought actually saw and experienced.  I learned a lot and gained new insight into many events which speaks volumes to the quality of this book, considering it was written back in the 1950s.<br />Lastly, Catton stays focused on his topic and does not try to cover too much material.  The book is about the Union Army, so he does not waste time getting into too many details about what was happening on the Confederate side.  I enjoyed this perspective because Catton succesfully answers the question of why the Union Army could not defeat the Confederates early in the war, despite the great advantage of resources that it possessed.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in the Civil War.  Whether you are a &quot;Civil War Buff&quot;, or just trying to find out more about this pivotal event in American history, you will enjoy this book.will enjoy this book.	2002-04-17
US	52819475	R3KB58JXAE0IRY	0029118174	562382879	Partners in Command: The Relationships Between Leaders in the Civil War	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Interesting view of command relationships	As the author explains in the first section of this book, it is based on a course that he taught at the Army War College about command relationships in the Civil War.  Overall, it is an interesting view into the lives, relationships, and correspondance between certain key leaders of the Civil War (Lee and Jackson, Lincoln and McClellan, Grant and Sherman to name a few).  Mr. Glatthaar's research and analysis of these relationships is excellent and detailed.  For instance, he explains why the relationship between Lincoln and McClellan was so strained (to include an appendix looking at McClellan's personality quirks in modern terms).  Or why Jackson and Lee worked so well together, despite a very limited personal friendship.<br />Simply put, I learned things from this book that I have not found in other places.  One warning: I agree with another reviewer that this book is not for people who are not very familiar with the Civil War.  The original course was taught to Senior Army leaders (Colonels) and civilians, so it was geared towards students who understand strategy and tactics.  Having said that, I highly recommend this book to any Civil War student, of &quot;Buff&quot; who is interested in learning more about the key leaders who shaped the events of the war, and helped determine its outcome.  If you do read it, take a look at the notes and bibliography section.  In it, the author gives his recommendations for other books to use for additional info.	2002-02-11
US	52819475	R204VGD36HSJFW	0684856298	996959617	The VICTORS : Eisenhower and His Boys: The Men of World War II	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Synthesis of other Ambrose books	As mentioned by almost every other review, this book is a synthesis of Ambrose's earlier works about WWII.  Overall, it makes for a fine read, but the material will be redundant if you have already finished his other books.  Having said that, this book would serve as a good intro to the writing style that Ambrose typically uses in his WWII books.  He likes to focus on the people who actually fought the war.  From the generals to the privates, he tries to cover all angles in order to tell the best story.  And Ambrose is one of the better story tellers around these days.  Unfortunately, he sometimes forgets to mention where he gets his stories from, as evidenced by the recent controversy.<br />For those not very familiar with the ETO, this book could serve as a good primer of this theatre, mostly from the American and British perspective. Otherwise, I don't recommend it for anyone familiar with Ambrose's other books, or who is a serious student of WWII because there is not much new here.  Lastly, if you decide to buy this book, don't pay full price for this book.  It is in every used book store that I have visited recently, usually for a low price.	2002-02-01
US	52819475	R1SNY1KDROC8MS	0684803291	320650512	Last Battle: The Classic History of the Battle for Berlin	Books	5	33	35	N	N	Another Ryan WWII classic	Before Stephen Ambrose took center stage as the best current historian of WWII, there was Cornelius Ryan.  Mr. Ryan wrote a trio of classic books about WWII: The Longest Day, A Bridge Too Far, and this book.  The first two were made into movies, and are commonly known.  They cover two of the most important European theatre campaigns that involved the US and British forces.  If you have not read either one of those books, I highly recommend both of them.<br />The Last Battle is the least known book of the trio.  None the less, it is a classic.  In it, Ryan gives a gripping account of the battle for Berlin.  He does an excellent job of introducing the scenario that lead to this truly horrifying and desperate battle.  Just like his other books, he weaves a captivating narrative that takes the reader from the planning sessions of the Red Army, to Hitler's bunker, on to the streets of Berlin where the battle was actually fought.  He covers this conflict from many angles (Generals, soldiers, civilians, Germans, Soviets, etc.) and gives the reader an accurate account of what happened during this battle.  As always, the amount of research and personal interviews he did for this book are quite impressive.<br />Mr. Ryan does an excellent job of building the battle drama into the fury that erupted when the Soviets finally rolled into the city of Berlin.  The payback that the Red Army gives the Wehrmacht, the city, and the civilian population of Berlin is a real eye-opener.  If you have never read anything about this battle (like myself), you may be shocked when you learn the details.  As Ryan points out, the Soviets saw this campaign as the one opportunity to avenge their losses on the Eastern Front (especially in places like Stalingrad), and they took full advantage of the situation (to include many heinous acts against innocent civilians).  Just like when the British and Americans bombed Dresden, the Soviets wanted to teach the Nazis, and the German people, a lesson they would never forget.<br />I first bought this book because of the author.  I had some interest about the battle because I visited Berlin as a young man back when the wall was still in place.  Once I started this book I became totally engrossed with it, and finished in a few days.  I highly recommend it to any Cornelius Ryan fan.  If you liked his other books, you will definitely enjoy this one also.  Also, this book is great for anyone wanting to learn about the battle that sealed the fate of the Nazi regime.ld never forget.  <br />I first bought this book because of the author.  I had some interest about the battle because I visited Berlin as a young man back when the wall was still in place.  Once I started this book I became totally engrossed with it, and finished in a few days.  I highly recommend it to any Cornelius Ryan fan.  If you liked his other books, you will definitely enjoy this one also.  Also, this book is great for anyone wanting to learn about the battle that sealed the fate of the Nazi regime.	2002-01-30
US	52819475	R1DGP416IUCVQO	0891096639	905994577	Church Without Walls: Moving Beyond Traditional Boundaries (Spiritual Formation Study Guides)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Book that challenges tradition	This book challenges the concept of the Christian Mega-Church, and the role of Christians in the modern world.  In Church Without Walls Petersen puts forth the following two point thesis:<br />1. Christians are in the world (not separate from it) in order to spread the good news about Jesus.<br />2. Every believer has a role in this process.<br />I think that he successfully argues his point, and provides a litany of supporting evidence (mostly historical) to show why the concept of the Church (the Body of Christ) has lost its place in the world over the centuries.  By explaining a short history of the Church, Petersen points out that many good ideas that were relevant in their time, have become steep traditions in the Church, and lost their effectiveness.  While this argument is interesting, especially if you do not know a lot of Church history (I fall into this category), it does get a little boring in certain sections of the book.<br />The part of the book which I found most compelling, was about my role as a Christian in the Church.  Basically, Petersen points out that the &quot;If we build it they will come&quot; philosophy that many churches follow today is not working.  We are not reaching the unchurched, and will continue to fail in this effort, unless a change is made.  More specifically, every Christian needs to be out the in the world, modeling and explaining Christ's love to an American culture which has become quite indifferent to the Church.<br />I think that Petersen's analysis is accurate and convincing.  He spells out how we are to do this, and what the Church should do to support this effort.  If this topic is of interest to you, then you should read this book.  It will challenge you to rethink your role in the Church, and take a hard look at whether or not the Christian community is being effective in a world that so desparately needs to hear the truth and love of Jesus.<br />Although I think that Chuck Colson's book &quot;The Body&quot; will give you a more profound look at today's Church, this book does a better job of explaining our role in the process.  Coupled together, these two books will hopefully inspire Christians to step out of their comfort zones, and truly make a difference in the modern world.ll give you a more profound look at today's Church, this book does a better job of explaining our role in the process.  Coupled together, these two books will hopefully inspire Christians to step out of their comfort zones, and truly make a difference in the modern world.	2002-01-28
US	52819475	R1XUVDFES8UNZ8	0891095616	851392	Living Proof: Sharing the Gospel Naturally (LifeChange)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Eye-opening book about personal evagelism	Honest admission: this is the first evagelism book that I have read.  Having said that, I am very glad that I started with this one.  In it, Jim Petersen gives Christians a contemporary discussion about evagelism, based on a lot of research, analysis, and the author's years of experience in the field.  I really enjoyed this book, and learned a lot about evagelism for numberous reasons.<br />First off, the book is well researched.  The author does not just give his opinion on how Christians should try to share their faith.  Instead, his recommendations are based on many surveys, studies, and his personal experiences over the past few decades.  Some of the statistics that he sites in the book will really open your eyes about the challenge today's church faces when it comes to evagelism.  Despite the existence of numerous &quot;Mega-churches&quot; across America, we are still failing to reach a majority of the population who have no idea what Christianity is all about.<br />Secondly, I liked the book, because the author sticks to the basics, and avoids denomination bias.  He uses a simple formula when it comes to evagelism.  We need to help others understand the Gospel, not the specifics of our denomination, but the fundamentals.  Christ crucified for our salvation is our bottom line, and the Bible is our primary source.<br />Thirdly, the author takes a realistic approach to evagelism, so that everyday Christians (myself included) are not overwhelmed by our role in the great commission.  Mr. Petersen makes it very clear that not everyone is ready to receive Christ as his or her personal savior.  That the process of conversion may take some time, and our role when talking with others (and living our life before them) may be just to help them find the truth of the Gospel out for themselves.<br />Lastly, I liked the fact that this book is filled with practical advise.  The author does not just talk about evagelism, but he offers many practical ways to get started in this area.  Before reading this book, I always thought that eveagelism was better left in the hands of others.  I did not feel like I had the skills required to help others understand the message of the Gospel.  Having finished this book- I come away thinking that I can do this, and should get involved.<br />I highly recommend this book to any Christian who is trying to better understand what evagelism is all about.  It is an easy read, and will help answer many questions you may have about how to help further the Kingdom of God.is area.  Before reading this book, I always thought that eveagelism was better left in the hands of others.  I did not feel like I had the skills required to help others understand the message of the Gospel.  Having finished this book- I come away thinking that I can do this, and should get involved.<br />I highly recommend this book to any Christian who is trying to better understand what evagelism is all about.  It is an easy read, and will help answer many questions you may have about how to help further the Kingdom of God.	2002-01-14
US	52819475	R3EQKABAWCDZ5Y	0849935792	899145497	The Body	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Penetrating look at the Christian Church	I read this book based on a recommendation and am really glad that I did.  In this book, Chuck Colson takes a very detailed look at the Christian Church (The Body).  He discusses its history, purpose, and current state.  Based on a lot or research and interviews, the authors gave me a lot to think about and really opened my eyes to what the Chrisitan Church is all about.<br />Overall, I was particularly impressed with three points that the author discusses: unity (tolerance) within the Body of Christ, active faith, and regular church attendance.  First, I think that Chuck Colson &quot;calls it like it is&quot; when he describes the petty arguments that have decided Christianity for years.  It is a shame that many who call Jesus lord, cannot get along with other denominations.  While we squabble over doctrine, more people become lost, and miss the greatest gift that God has to offer.  The books call for unity is well founded and supported.<br />Secondly, Mr. Colson challenges today's church and its members to display the kind of active faith that marked Jesus during his time on earth and the early church.  I totally agree with him that if the Church is to fulfill its purpose, Christians need to &quot;get plugged in&quot;.  Make a difference and bring light into the darkness that surrounds us everyday.  This call to action really challenged me to rethink my role in society as a Christian, and how I can help further God's kingdom.<br />Thirdly, this book gives the best explanation of why regular church attendance is required that I have read.  The authors point out that the Church is God's chosen instrument to spread his Gospel, save the lost, and further His Kingdom.  As stated in the book &quot;Christianity is about more than just you and your relationship with God&quot;.  I have fallen into this trap, and heard this argument from many Christians.  This book helped remind me that I have a much greater responsiblity than just my own salvation.<br />Lastly, this book does an excellent job of weaving in numerous stories to put a human face on the concepts he discusses.  Despite the heavy subjects that it covers, it is actually a pretty easy read.  I enjoyed this style, and learned a tremendous amount of things about Christianity that I did not know before reading this book.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone who is looking for a detailed analysis of the Christian Church.  If you have ever had questions (or heard comments) about why it is important to attend a church, how can the Church be more effective in today's society, what has worked in the past, and what will work in the future, then you should read this book.this book does an excellent job of weaving in numerous stories to put a human face on the concepts he discusses.  Despite the heavy subjects that it covers, it is actually a pretty easy read.  I enjoyed this style, and learned a tremendous amount of things about Christianity that I did not know before reading this book.  <br />I highly recommend this book to anyone who is looking for a detailed analysis of the Christian Church.  If you have ever had questions (or heard comments) about why it is important to attend a church, how can the Church be more effective in today's society, what has worked in the past, and what will work in the future, then you should read this book.	2002-01-03
US	52819475	R2V4HGF1H4VSNS	0785268812	914031574	Success God's Way Achieving True Contentment And Purpose	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Biblical Perspective on Success	I really enjoyed Dr. Stanley's book about success.  In it he gives a biblical perspective about success, and how to achieve it.  I like the fact that he uses many different examples of success from the Bible, and tells you how to apply these lessons to your own life.  This book has really made me take a hard look at my life, and the goals I have set for myself.<br />I recommend this book to anyone looking for a Christian perspective on success.  Having said that, unlike others reviewers, this is not the best &quot;how-to&quot; success book that I have read.  The Success Journey by John Maxwell provides better &quot;tools&quot; and &quot;methods&quot; for how to set goals, and achieve success.  But Maxwell's book lacks a Christian perspective on the subject.  Therefore, I recommend that those readers looking for books to help you plan your course along the pathway to success, look into both books, John Maxwell's and Dr. Stanley's.	2001-12-19
US	52819475	R24QLT0ABU875Q	156205810X	663559807	Designing Web Usability	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Great overview of Web Design	Jakob Nielsen is definitely one of the top web gurus around today.  This book consolidates a lot of his ideas about web design in one resource.  Although I do not agree with every single rule or bit of advice that Dr. Nielsen gives in the book, overall I agree with his overall theme of simplicity.  His main argument is that a web site can only be effective if the user can accomplish their purpose in visiting the web site quickly and efficiently. It doesn't matter if the user is looking up some obscure resources at the Library of Congress site, or buying CDs at Amazon.com.  Both &quot;customers&quot; want the same thing- quality service from the site. Quality means a lot of things to different people.  But at a minium, a site needs to be fast, easy to navigate, and meet the users needs.  The bottom line is that every user is just a click away from leaving.<br />A few sections of the book that are particularly useful are the ones about writing for the web, designing for an international audience, and establishing design standards.  I also like the fact that the book is full of examples from real web sites, showing the strengths and weaknesses of each.<br />The two things I do not think are that great about the book are the price, and the reduncancy of material.  Simply put, it is overpriced, and the author rehashes many concepts throughout the book.  Having said that, I would still recommend this book to anyone who is heavily involved with web design.  You should be familiar with the concepts.  If nothing else, this book will generate some ideas on how to make your website more effective.	2001-12-07
US	52819475	R2BM8KZCLM2DGG	0451203933	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Detailed Account of a Tragic Battle	Mark Bowden has done the military a great service by writing this book about the desperate battle fought in Somalia back in the early 1990s.  He provides today's military leadership with a detailed account of this tragic battle so that we can applaud those who fought so bravely in it, and hopefully avoid the mistakes that were made.  Many of these mistakes could have been avoided, and unfortunately cost US soldiers their lives.<br />The most compelling reason to read this book, is the accurate and balanced approach that the author takes.  He is not in the military, and does not have a specific agenda for writing this book.  Instead, he aims to tell the story of what went wrong, how the participants reacted (what decisions were made, why, and what effects did they have on the battle), and why this battle was lost, despite the bravery of those involved.  It is a sad part of US military history, but one worth telling generations to come.<br />For this book, Mr. Bowden spent a few years on interviews, went to the battlefield, and completed extensive research, in order to put all the pieces of the battle together.  The amount of research and documentation he completed for this book is impressive.  The fact that he spoke with many Somalia participants adds a realistic dimension to this story.  Not only do you get a feeling for what happened from the US perspective, but you also gain an understanding of the battle through the eyes of the Somalie people, as they experienced it.<br />The one complaint I have about the book (and reason I did not give it five stars) is that it is not very well written.  The action is gripping, and vivid, but the author's style is a bit simplistic for my taste.  Having said that, it is still an excellent read.<br />I highly recommend this book for anyone interested in modern military history.  Any current members of the US Army should take the time to read this book, and draw out the lessons learned in order to make sure that these kinds of mistakes are not made again.of mistakes are not made again.	2001-11-26
US	52819475	R3IKJO4V5QCWRG	0253337380	56430133	A Great Civil War: A Military and Political History, 1861-1865	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Good Overview of &quot;The Great Civil War&quot;	Written by a highly regarded US military historian, this book does a solid job of explaining why the Civil war happened, how it was fought, and why the North prevailed in the end.  Dr. Weigley has done a nice job of adding his voice to the current discussion of the war by some of today's best historians.<br />Overall, the book is not the most stimulating reading, unless you are very interested in the subject (i.e.- you have already done some reading about the war).  None the less, I really enjoyed the first part of the book (about the roots of the war and military strategy used in this era), and the end of the book (about why the North prevailed, and how the Confederacy collapsed so quickly, in the end) the most.  I think that Dr. Weigley makes some great insights during these two sections.<br />In a bit of a surprise, the political sections of the book are better written and more interesting to read than the military sections.  I find this slightly strange, because of Dr. Weigley's expertise in US military history.  For some key battles (Fredricksburg, Chancellorsville), he gives only a cursory summary, and does not add any new insight into these battles and their outcomes.  I guess I expected to learn more about the military perspective than the political one by reading this book.  But I must admit that it ended up the other way around for me, in this case.<br />Overall, I enjoyed the book, but I must agree with a previous reviewer that this book is not on the same level as Battle Cry of Freedom by James McPherson.  Simply put, if you have time (and/or interest) to read only one book about the war, don't read this one.  Read the McPherson book instead.  It is a more thorough and enjoyable book.<br />On the other hand, if you are a student of the war (I fall into this category), or consider yourself a Civil War buff, this would be a good choice to add to your Civil War library	2001-10-29
US	52819475	RSGIMRQ55U0QX	0807825522	557407417	The Richmond Campaign of 1862: The Peninsula and the Seven Days  (Military Campaigns of the Civil War)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Insightful essays about Richmond Campaign	I agree with an earlier reviewer who writes that this book is a great companion (or follow-up) book to Stephen Sears &quot;To the Gates of Richmond&quot;. Mr. Sears books gives a vivid account of the overall campaign, while this book offers some insightful essays about certain aspects of the campaign. The authors are all experts in the field, and offer well written essays for the reader to contemplate.<br />I really enjoyed this book because the authors cover a wide range of topics to include General McClellan's flawed performance, &quot;Stonewall&quot; Jackson's less than stellar leadership during the campaign, the artillery battle at Malvern Hill, &quot;Prince&quot; John Magruder's struggles, and the affect of the campaign on both Northern and Southern society. These detailed essays offer readers the latest and greatest scholarship about the Richmond campaign.  They really helped me gain a much deeper understanding about what the campaign was like, why it was so important to the overall war effort (for both sides), and most importantly, how did if affect those involved.<br />I highly recommend this book for those &quot;students&quot; of the Civil War (like me) who are looking to gain a richer grasp of the events that happened during the Richmond campaign. If you have not read anything about the Richmond campaign (usually referred to as the Pennisula and Seven Days campaign) then I suggest that you read &quot;To the Gates of Richmond&quot; by Stephen Sear first, then this book.	2001-09-19
US	52819475	R2K64KID4XOX6N	0830727671	719523069	Living the Spirit-Formed Life: Growing in the 10 Principles of Spirit-Filled Discipleship	Books	4	30	32	N	N	Quality description of Christian disciplines	Having read many of Jack Hayford's books I must say that this one is more direct than some of his earlier works. In it, he takes a no-nonsense approach to explaining Christian disciplines.<br />His purpose for writing the book is to give readers a biblically based approach to Christian living. Basically he tries to answer the question &quot;Now that I am a Christian, what do I do?&quot; Or &quot;Being a Christian seems so difficult, how do I do it?&quot;. As expected, he gives a very detailed outline of how &quot;Spirit filled&quot; Christians approach and apply their faith in practical terms. He covers most topics of importance to one's walk with Jesus to include prayer (the second half of the book is all about prayer), worship, bible reading/studying, daily devotions, and many others. I really like the fact that he includes many scriptures to explain the Biblical foundation for it, and why each is important.<br />Dr. Hayford does come from a pentecostal denomination, so readers should expect to learn a lot about the Holy Spirit's role in Christian living. For those who are not Christian's don't worry. He does not view Christianity as a purely emotional or experience oriented religion. Instead, he gives a very balanced explanation of how Christians should try to live out their life for God.<br />I recommend this book for anyone looking to strenghten their faith in God. If you are a new believer, this book will help provide you a roadmap for life. If you are a more mature Christian, this book will help remind you of what God expects of us as Christians, and practical ways to deepen our faith in Him.	2001-09-04
US	52819475	R3R1QV4Q8RX4WX	0395701015	509709654	To the Gates of Richmond: The Peninsula Campaign	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Insightful narrative of the Civil War's largest campaign	&quot;To the Gates of Richmond&quot; is the first book by Stephen Sears that I have read. I purchased it on the recommendation of some friends who said it was the best book about the Pennisula campaign. Overall, I was very impressed by the book. Mr. Sears writes in an easily understandable format, and gives great insight into the leaders, soldiers, and politicians involved with the battle. He has a profound understanding of General McClellan (most likely based on his previous research and books about him) which really helps paint a clear picture of what exactly happened to the Union army during this campaign. Basically, this failed campaign prolongs the war by three years, so I think that it is important try and understand how a much larger army was defeated. I think the author does an excellent job explaining the events as they unfolded on both sides. Addtionally, I liked the fact that many eye-witness accounts of events are given throughout the book. These quotes help add an element of accuracy that I have not found in some other books. I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in learning more about the Pennisula campaign of the Civil War. It will add to your understanding of the campaign, and the events that followed.	2001-08-27
US	52819475	R2TIUMMB5VCR7U	0830723986	806614987	Worship His Majesty: How Praising the King of Kings Will Change Your Life	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Insightful book about modern worship	First off, I must admit that I enjoy reading Jack Hayford's books.  He takes a very common sense approach to the Bible, Christianity, and faith.  I think that he does a better job than most other pastors of giving practical insight into Christian concepts.  In this book, his focus is worship and how it can change our lives.<br />I enjoyed this book the most because it is a no nonsense explanation of worship.  Basically, Dr. Hayford is hoping that this book will help start a reformation of worship in today's Church.  Throughout the book, he tries to confront many traditional notions about worship, and its role for the believer, and the Church.  In some ways, this book may challenge you, especially if you come from a very traditional denomination.  I know that in my case it has made me take a hard look at my role in daily worship, and during church services.<br />Dr. Hayford's basic premise is that biblically based worship is the vital key to the success of any church.  He goes into great detail about what worship is, and is not.  Various topics he discusses include musical worship (songs), prayer, communion, and tithing.  He uses various examples from the Bible (Abraham, David, Samuel, Peter, and Paul) to illustrate many of his points.  Also, he tries to clarify misconceptions about worship that many believers (including myself) may have.  For instance, he explains why worship is actually designed for our benefit, and not God's.<br />I highly recommend this book for anyone wanting to find out more about worship, and how it can impact your walk with God.  I think that you will find this book stimulating, and cause you to examine your own worship practices and effectiveness.	2001-07-18
US	52819475	R19BRG664ZAAPD	0785274294	451698810	The Success Journey: The Process of Living Your Dreams	Books	5	52	52	N	N	An honest look at success	I really enjoyed this book, and learned a lot about my journey towards a successful life.  John Maxwell has put together years of research about leadership, and the pursuit of success for this book.  He uses a very straight forward approach towards the subject of success, and what it really means.  Additionally, he reinforces his ideas with many quotes and stories from people of every walk of life.<br />Although some of Mr. Maxwell's thoughts and concepts were not new to me this book really challenged me to take an honest look at my life and where I am heading.  Since I am currenlty in the middle of a huge career change (and trying to focus my thoughts on what my future should look like), I think that I discovered this book at the perfect time.  It has helped me gain focus and motivation for the upcoming changes.<br />I especially enjoyed the practical exercises that are at the end of each chapter in the book.  You can't just read this book and expect your life to change.  You have to do some work, and the author constantly reminds you of this fact throughout.  When I forced myself to answer some of the tough questions that he throws at you, I gained some real insight into my life's work, and where I am heading.<br />I also liked the fact that John Maxwell includes an entire chapter about family relationships and the fact that you cannot be successful, unless you are successful at home first.  I have seen too many people make this mistake, so I am glad that he included this angle in the book.  My wife and I had a great discussion about what we value when we completed the exercises at the end of this chapter together.<br />I highly recommend this book for anyone looking for insight into how to fulfill your dreams, how to become successful, or just want to improve their outlook on life.  It can help give you a new perspective, and gives you the tools for an honest assessment of where you are, and where you want to go.	2001-07-10
US	52819475	R2MDTA6JGRJ328	0310385709	203019113	The Jesus I Never Knew	Books	5	71	74	N	N	Thought Provoking Book about Jesus	This is the first Philip Yancey book that I have read, and I must say that I am impressed.  The main reason I like this book is the straight-forward, honest approach that the author uses to find out more about Jesus, Christianity, and the Church.  An endeavor that I am currently undergoing myself.<br />For the book, the author did an enormous amount of research looking for the answers to the questions about Jesus that plagued him most.  He looks at questions like: What was Jesus really like? How does the Church (and many Americans) view him now?  How should we respond to His message? All valid questions that I think many people struggle with at some point. To answer these questions, Mr. Yancey follows the life of Jesus here on earth from start to finish, and gives his thoughts (and many others) and conclusions about Jesus.<br />He draws his material from many sources, but I like the fact that he always goes back to the Gospels as the &quot;measuring stick&quot; for everything.  I also like his conclusion that after writing a book about Jesus, that he has even more questions than when he started.  I feel the same way.  It seems the more I learn about Jesus, the more I feel that I don't know or understand.  Luckily, this book has helped answer some questions that I had about Jesus, and gave me some fresh insight into what Jesus was all about.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone who is looking for a deeper relationship with Jesus, and wants to find out more about Him.  This book will probably challenge your current view and opinions about Jesus, which hopefully will wet your appetite to know Him better, like it has with me.	2001-07-02
US	52819475	R1K4WBBGZ75QJB	0785277471	83074253	The Wonderful Spirit Filled Life	Books	5	40	40	N	N	Very informative book about God's Holy Spirit	I bought this book for two main reasons.  First, I want to know more about the Holy Spirit, and the role it has in my Christian walk.  Second, I have heard Charles Stanley preach before, and he seems like a reliable source for helping further my Christian development.  This book confirmed both my reasons.<br />In his book Dr. Stanley does an outstanding job of explaining how the Holy Spirit works in our lives.  Although I do not agree with all of his conclusions about the Holy Spirit (most specifically when he talks about the limited availability of speaking in tongues for all Christians), overall, I think this book is right on target.  Whether you are a new Christian, or have walked with God for years, I think that this book can help bring new light to a subject that is often misunderstood.<br />Using a lot of scriptures, and his extensive research on the subject, Dr. Stanley has greatly increased my understanding of the Holy Spirit.  I liked the book because he offers a lot of practical advice about seeking God's Holy Spirit.  I really enjoyed the fact that Dr. Stanley shares his own struggle with grasping everything that the Holy Spirit has to offer us as Christians.  I think that many Christian leaders in his position would perhaps be too proud to discuss their own journey towards a greater understanding of God's spirit.  Lastly, I think that this book has helped further my quest for knowledge about the Holy Spirit.  Dr. Stanley includes a list of the resources he used while writing the book, at the end of each chapter which will serve as an excellent guide for me in the future.<br />I highly recommend this book to any believer who is wanting to learn more about the Holy Spirit.  If you are like me, you want to learn the truth from a reliable source.  I think this book will meet your need, if that is your desire.	2001-06-26
US	52819475	R39S5IWMI4RCBR	0807122866	835439889	Lee and His Generals in War and Memory	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Insightful essays about Lee and his subordinates	I bought this book based on the fact that I consider Gary Gallagher one of the premiere Civil War historians today.  Luckily, he did not disappoint me with this effort.  Through a series of 13 essays, Dr. Gallagher takes a detailed look at General Lee and his subordinates performance during the Civil War, and how they have been portrayed by historians.  More speficially, he details how the &quot;Lost Cause&quot; writers created some of the myth and legends about the South's best and worst leaders.  Additionally, he looks at more recent works (both books and video) about the Civil War, and whether or not these historians bring a more balanced and better pespective on the war.<br />I really enjoyed this book because it offers so much fresh material on many popular Civil War leaders, and topics (like Ken Burns video collection).  Also, I think that Gary Gallagher brings a very balanced approach to his research and analysis.  In other words, I trust his opinion because he always supports his thoughts with detailed research from the latest sources available.  Therefore, he can successfully weave together both the battles and politics of the war, and paint accurate pictures of the Southern leaders discussed in this book.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone who has a fundamental understanding of the Civil War, and is looking for resources to develop a deeper analysis of this complex war.  Learn from someone who is at the forefront of current research, and willing to put in the extra time and effort to get the story right.	2001-06-23
US	52819475	R3R8EVL54ZVKBW	0801063590	308038073	How to Read a Christian Book	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Book meets is designed purpose	I bought this book for one main reason- as a resource to help me decide which Christian books to buy in the future.  As a Christian, there are almost an infinite number of books available these days.  Some are good, some are great, and others are not worth the time or effort required to read them.  The problem is deciding which ones to read, and/or which ones to buy to build a library of &quot;Great Christian books&quot;.  This book is specifically designed to help readers make the right choices.<br />The book is a quick read, and has a few sections that are slightly boring.  But, more importantly, it contains a comprehensive list of book recommendations for Christians.  The book is worth the money for these lists alone.  Additionally, the author has put together a suggested three-year reading program which I plan on starting soon.  It has books from a wide variety of Christian subjects, that builds on many concepts over the three year period (foundation books the first year, more complex books the following years).<br />I highly recommend this book for any Christian looking for a way to put together a quality reading program.  If you are like me, you get overwhelmed by choices at most Christian bookstores.  Luckily, this book can help you focus on quality books which will help enhance your Christian experience and development.	2001-06-18
US	52819475	R11HF6ZBZ5GVBB	0849953278	462795544	Books of 1 & 2 Timothy / Titus (Life Lessons with Max Lucado)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good Bible study to generate discussion	My wife and I were looking for a Bible study to complete together at home.  We chose this book as a starting point, and I am glad that we did.  It uses a format that works well for generating discussion, and gaining greater insight into the Bible.  Max Lucado introduces the Bible book which you will study, then gives you a question to start discussion before you get into the actual text.  Next comes a Bible passage followed by a series of questions about the passage.  Afterwards, you have a short section from another Christian book (many of these are from one of Max Lucado's books) with more questions, a prayer, a chance to journal your thoughts, and some final questions.<br />I know that this sounds like a lot of work, but it is worth every minute.  My wife and I learned a lot from the book and each other while working our way through 1&amp;2 Timothy and Titus.  Overall, I would say that we averaged about 30-45 minutes on each study.  Of course, I count this time as the best kind of quality time that a couple can spend together.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone, or any small group who is looking for a Bible study that will help them better understand 1&amp;2 Timothy and Titus.  The book is made up of 12 lessons, so you could easily finish this study in as little as two weeks (we have already bought another book in this series since we enjoyed this one so much).	2001-06-18
US	52819475	R16I3GTUI1ISW9	1576737330	89800612	The Prayer of Jabez:  Breaking Through to the Blessed Life	Books	5	16	18	N	N	A Powerful Book	I bought this book because of all the attention it has gained in the Christian community.  I am glad that I did--it is wonderful.  By using a rather obscure passage from the Old Testament, the author makes some profound insights into the ways we should pray.  Simply put, he challenges the Christian community to raise our expectation of prayer and blessings from God.  I think that he is absolutely correct on both topics.<br />One concern I had about the book was the issue of praying for abundance.  Luckily, the author &quot;hit the nail on the head&quot; with this topic by focusing on what God wants to bless us with instead of what we want from God.  After all, if we put our faith in God, shouldn't we trust his judgement when it comes to his blessing our lives.  I think that prosperity is one of the most misunderstood topics in the Christian community today, and hopefully this book will help solve that problem.<br />This book is short, so I recommend reading the entire thing in one sitting if you have the chance.  As far as format goes, the book is kind of like reading a sermon.  First the author identifies the text, then makes four main points based on the text.  He reinforces his message with examples from his own Christian experience.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in drawing closer to God, and learning more about prayer.  Even if you have walked with Jesus for years, this book may give you a new insight, or different perspective about your prayer life.	2001-06-14
US	52819475	R2S5JB32CDTZPC	0385495641	161920063	Ghost Soldiers: The Forgotten Epic Story of World War II's Most Dramatic Mission	Books	4	35	37	N	N	A gripping account of WWII POW rescue mission	I really learned a lot of things I did not know about WWII when I read this book.  A relative gave it to me as a gift since military history is one of my favorite subjects.  Before reading this book, I have not spent much time learning about the pacific theatre.  I have always thought that the European part of WWII much more interesting.  This book has completely changed my perspective.<br />The book focuses on the surrender of the Phillipines to the Imperiel Japanes Army, the treatment of allied POWs by the Japanese, and subsequent rescue mission by US Army Rangers.  All three topics make for fascinating, eye-opening discovery.  The author uses a lot of personal accounts and quotes from soldiers who lived through this saga, which adds an element of realism that I have not found in many other books.  This technique drew me into the story and gave me a whole new perspective about what happened to these soldiers.  Your heart will ache when you learn about the treatment of the POWs, and leap with joy during the rescue mission portion.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone looking for a unique story from WWII.  This book is not a dry, boring history book.  Instead it tells the sad story of what happened to our soldiers in the Phillipines during WWII, and the inspiring story of the men who rescued them.  The fact that any of the POWs survived their ordeal is a miracle, and the story of how the US Army rangers completed this &quot;mission impossible&quot; is fascinating.  For anyone currently serving in the military, get it and read it.  It will give you a whole new appreciation of those who have gone before us (some paying the ultimaye price), and motivate you to do well the duty that lies before you.	2001-06-13
US	52819475	R2F2SQUOLPMKEY	1562924893	642840855	In His Steps	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Classic Christian Novel with a Powerful Message	I really enjoyed the simple message of &quot;What would Jesus Do&quot; that is the centerpiece of this classic Christian book.  I have heard this saying many times in the many different Christian circles that I have traveled, but never knew its original source.  Now that I have finished the book (the original version which I recommend), I think I have a much better understanding of what it means to a Christian to ask the question &quot;What would Jesus do&quot; in any situation we face.<br />I really enjoyed this book because it tells a compelling story, and prompts you to take a tough look at your own life.  It brings all kinds of deep, thought provoking questions to mind.  Questions like: What would I be willing to do to follow Jesus?  Am I willing to make sacrifices in my own life to further his Kingdom?  I bought this book because it looked very interesting, and I really glad that I did.  I think that it will have a huge impact on my life, and my Christian faith.<br />I highly recommend this book for anyone interested in finding out more about the &quot;What would Jesus do&quot; concept.  Also, anyone looking for a book that will challenge them to live a more meaningful life for God will benefit from this story.  The book is not very long, and a pretty easy read.  Hopefully, it will have a profound impact on you as it dit me.	2001-06-06
US	52819475	R1HUG74NZY8JE2	0684848015	340472252	Citizen Soldiers: The U. S. Army from the Normandy Beaches to the Bulge to the Surrender of Germany	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Gripping Account of Soldiers' WWII Experiences	This is the first Stephen Ambrose book I have read, and I throughly enjoyed it.  The book describes WWII in Europe from a soldier's point of view.  Ambrose does a wonderful job weaving the personal stories of soldiers who experienced combat in Europe during WWII, to tell the tale of how the Allies won the war.  Unlike other books focus mainly on telling the overall story of WWII (the Operations, plans, tactics, and strategy from the General officer level), this book aims to give the reader a glimpse of what is was like to actually fight the war.  My admiration and respect for the WWII generation continues to grow, the more I read about it.<br />I recommend this book for anyone who is interested in WWII, especially if you are looking for details about how the soldiers lived, fought, and died in the major battles that followed D-Day.  You will not be disappointed.	2001-06-04
US	52819475	R1W7LDB20T3WW	0785274316	890160557	The 21 Irrefutable Laws of Leadership: Follow Them and People Will Follow You	Books	5	91	99	N	N	Excellent Resource for Leaders	John Maxwell's book is by far the best leadership book I have read in the past few years.  I wish I had this material available to me years ago, so that I was better prepared for the leadership challenges I would face as an officer in the US Army.  I have read many leadership books the past decade in order to better develop my own skills, but none of them has put together all the pieces like John Maxwell does in this book.<br />Basically, the book covers Maxwell's 21 laws of leadership.  Each chapter describes the law in detail, and provides many historical examples to help reinforce the principle.  I think that he has done a great job of taking a lot of material and focusing in on the key points that help make a leader successful.  The book's structure also allows you to put the book down for a few days, and not lose your focus or understanding when you get a chance to return to it.  I particularly liked this approach since I never seem to have enough time for professional reading these days.  Lastly, the material is easy to understand and apply to any leadership situation, which makes it a great resource for those leaders looking for a way to have an immediate impact on their organization.<br />As a military officer, I understand the principle role that leadership plays in an organization's success. During my short career (10 years), I have been in both great and lousy units.  Each time, I can trace the unit's performance directly to its leader and his/her ability to influence its members to accomplish the mission and take care of its people.  My personal experience only helped reinforce the material, and verified in my mind that John Maxwell is &quot;on-target&quot; with his laws.<br />I highly recommend this book for any leader.  Whether you are just starting out on your career, or have been in a leadership position for years, I think this book can make an impact on your performance.	2001-01-11
US	52819475	R1WFBP1UOLNIAI	0813916119	60409328	Lee's Young Artillerist: William R.J. Pegram (A Nation Divided)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Great Ibook about a young Confederate Officer Experience	I found this book a very interesting read.  In it, Peter Carmichael describes the military career of the young Confederate officer, William Pegram.  The books gives a nice overview of his successful role in the Army of Northern Virginia as an artillery officer. Most of the text chronicles Pegram's swift rise through the ranks as he boldly leads his men, cannons, horses and caissons on the battlefield.  Mr. Carmichael uses many of Pegram's letters home to tell his story.  More importantly, Pegram's view of the war, slavery, and the Confederate Cause, come through as well.<br />Mr. Carmichael does a fantastic job of revealing how some of the young Confederate officers like Pegram viewed the Civil War.  Since most Civil War books focus more on the Generals than the junior officers who actually fought the battles, I felt that this book really brought a new perspective to my understanding of the conflict.<br />I do not recommend this book for those who do not already possess a good understanding of the Civil War.  Instead, I highly recommend this book to anyone who has gained an appreciation for the war, and is looking to find out more about its participants.  This book really opened my eyes about &quot;the Southern Cause&quot;, and how it meant different things to different people.	2000-12-20
US	52819475	R2ME6OYWTHACXI	0130882623	750602808	Business Data Communications and Networking (3rd Edition)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Great Overview of Data Communications	We used this book in my graduate MIS course, and it was a great tool for learning the basics about data communications and networking.  Many of my classmates thought that Panko did a great job of explaining data comm concepts, whether it was something as simple as an ethernet LAN, or as complex as an ATM network.  Everyone in my class seemed to enjoy the text (both highly technical students with a background in data comms, and students who were learning the material for the first time).<br />The book is designed to give readers a general overview of a subject, then drill down into the details in later chapters.  He starts with the basics (layers, encapsulation, protocols, etc), and then gets into how networks are built from the ground up.  Panko has included numerous modules at the end of the book if you want to learn even more about a specific topic.<br />The author has also put together slides for each chapter which were very helpful in explaining difficult concepts, or emphasizing certain chapters in the text.  If you can get a copy of them, I highly recommend using them.<br />I recommend this book for anyone looking for a way to learn a lot about data communications and networking.  This book covers the gamut from LAN to WAN technology, packet switching, ATM networks, frames, IP addresses, etc.  It can also serve as a tremendous reference if you need to review a topic later on down the road.	2000-12-05
US	52819475	R2UTCJDQX2TLCU	0672318385	703072325	Sams Teach Yourself Web Publishing with HTML 4 in 21 Days, Professional Reference Edition, Second Edition (Teach Yourself -- Days)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Excellent Book about HTML for Beginners	I bought this book to help sharpen my HTML skills for a web site project that I am currently working on for my Master's Degree.  Luckily, I made a great choice, because this book has helped me further develop my understanding of HTML in a very short timespan.  I use this book more than the textbooks that our instructor assigned to us.  I highly recommed the book to anyone looking for a book that can teach them HTML in less than  a month.<br />I found the book easy to read, full of great examples, and very well suited to use as a reference guide. You will find yourself quickly building web publishing skills starting with the very basics, then moving on to tougher subject like using frams, inserting multi-media, creating forms, and other useful topics.  My own personal copy is rough around the edges because I have used it so much during my project.<br />If you are looking for an easy way to learn a lot about HTML, but don't have the time or money to spend on a class, I recommend that you purchase this book.  It is money well spent for those looking to expand your web publishing skills.	2000-11-11
US	52819475	R6MG7MT8NECWG	1556159005	152022281	Rapid Development: Taming Wild Software Schedules	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Excellent Introduction to Project Management	I recently read this book as part of my graduate MIS program at the  University of Virginia.  I thought the book was a great introduction to the  world of software development.  Having limited experience in the IT world,  this book did an outstanding job of giving me insight into the tricky  business of project management.  I highly recommend this book to anyone who  wants to learn a lot about classic mistakes that software developers and  managers commonly make.  Luckily, Mr. McConnell also lists many best  practices that project managers can use in order to maximize their chances  for success on software development projects.	2000-09-09
US	52819475	RRZNV74KXSX1X	0807845698	280997998	Two Great Rebel Armies: An Essay in Confederate Military History (Civil War America)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Interesting contrast between two armies	Mr. McMurry's purpose in writing this book was to try and explain why the  Army of Northern Virginia was so successful, and why the Army of Tennessee  so awful.  Although I did not agree with some of his conclusions, he does  provide some compelling evidence to support his arguments.<br />I found this  book to be very informative, and an easy read.  I recommend it for anyone  looking to better understand how the South fought the war, why the two  great rebel armies had such different levels of success on the battlefield,  and possibly why they did not have the ability to win the war.	2000-06-06
US	52819475	R2XPSAXFIG37HE	0817310010	784219675	Third Alabama!: The Civil War Memoir of Brigadier General Cullen Andrews Battle, CSA	Books	4	2	2	N	N	More of a Unit History than a Memoir	This memoir reads more like a unit history of the Third Alabama than General Battle's memoirs.  He does not spend much time talking about himself.  Instead, General Battle describes the war as his unit experienced  it.<br />I thought the book was interesting, and easy to read.  It is very  short, so don't look for too much detailed information.  The thing I liked  most were the battlefield vinettes that General Battle describes.<br />I  recommend this book for anyone interested in learning more about how the  soldiers and leaders of Lee's army viewed the war.	2000-05-17
US	52819475	R3PBG823W59VQ4	039303531X	390044281	How Great Generals Win	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Good survey of successful commanders- past and present	Bevin Alexander's book is an easy read, and he does a solid job supporting his theses about why certain General's were very successful.  I doubt that anyone will agree with everyone of his selections of Generals and  campaigns, but this book can serve as a good starting point for discussions  about strategic planning for success in warfare.<br />I had some problems  with the authors selections (of course who are the great generals  throughout the ages is a matter of opinion), and some of the overall  conclusions in certain campaigns.  For example, Mr. Alexander states that  Lincoln would not have won re-elction unless Sherman captured Atlanta  before the election without fully supporting the argument.  Instead, he  simply states this opinion as fact.  Also, the maps were a little lacking  at times.  I agree with a previous reviewer that more detail on the maps  would have helped.<br />Despite these shortcomings, I recommend this  book for any military history bookgroup looking a book to generate  discussion about military strategy, or anyone looking for a nice addition  to their military history library.	2000-03-15
US	52819475	R2YM03L7QLYK04	0080405614	891323587	Profession of Arms	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A historical perspective of the military profession	I read this book on the recommendation from a fellow officer in order to gain a better historical perspective of the military profession.  This book develops the lineage from Armies of the ancient world to today's modern Armies in a rather concise and insightful manner.  Sir John Hackett  focuses a lot on the relationship between the military forces and the  countries they represent on the battlefield.  He also offers some  interesting opinions about training future leaders in the Armed Services  based on his vast military experience and career.  I thoroughly  enjoyed this book (it has many interesting photos and prints throughout the  text), although it is written from a European (the author is British)  perspective.  The author does devote some time to the US Army, but his main  focus is the European military system.  Therefore, if you are looking for a  book about how the American Army has changed over time, I do not recommend  this one.<br />On the other hand, I do recommend this book for anyone wanting  to learn more about how the profession of arms has developed over time.  It  would make a fine addition to your military history library if you have  one, or serve as a great first addition, if you are thinking of starting  one.	2000-03-05
US	52819475	R35BHO7UGO2123	0785274723	914001878	E-Quake: A New Approach to Understanding the End Times Mysteries in the Book of Revelation	Books	4	13	14	N	N	A Great Introduction to the Book of Revelations	Although this book is not very long, Jack Hayford does an excellent job of introducing readers to the Book of Revelation.  Of all the books in the new testament, I have always found Revelations the most difficult to  understand.  I am glad that Pastor Jack Hayford has finally written a book  that gives definitive insight into some of the symbols, terms, and messages  contained in the text.<br />Luckily for the reader, he does not try and  explain every single verse in Revelations.  So, if you are looking for an  extremely detailed explanation of Revelations- don't buy this book.<br />Instead Pastor Hayford tries to give the reader a basic understanding of  why Revelation was written, how the book is structured (something that I  definitely misunderstood until I read this book), and what it means to us  today.  The one great lesson that became crystal clear to me after reading  this book, is the importance of worshipping God in a Christian's life.  Many Christians, myself included, underestimate the power and importance of  worship in their Christian walk.  Just like prayer, it a fundamental  discipline that can make a world of difference in your life, and the life  of the Church.<br />Just like one of the previous reviewers mentions, I hope  Pastor Hayford does another follow-up book about Revelations.  Now that I  have a fundamental understanding of the book, I would like to dig a little  deeper, and gain even greater insight.<br />I recommend this book to anyone  who has struggled with trying to understand the Book of Revelations.  If  you are looking for an excellent source to give you a basic understanding  of Revelations, look no further.  Get a copy of this book and add it to  your Christian library.	2000-02-27
US	52819475	R213DQPB4UWWNG	0807120286	289282230	The March to the Sea and Beyond: Sherman's Troops in the Savannah and Carolinas Campaigns	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Learn more about Sherman's Soldiers- in their own words	Joseph Glatthaar wrote this book in order to examine Sherman's march across the South &quot;from the level of the common soldier, both enlisted and officer&quot;.  In the introduction he states that by writing the book  from this perspective, he hoped &quot;to restore the reality of the  campaigns, to understand the underlying motivation of Sherman's men for  adopting a policy of devestation and to shed light on the total-war concept  in military history&quot;.<br />Mr. Glatthaar's efforts have resulted in this  very informative and engaging book.  I did not know a lot about Sherman's  Army before reading this book, and feel that I now have a much better  understanding of the men who filled the ranks and led the regiments in  their famous march to the sea.  In his text, Mr. Glatthaar presents many  quotes directly from letters and diaries written by Sherman's men, which  really enhances the story and his conclusions.<br />I recommend this book  for anyone wanting to learn about Sherman's Army- why it was successful,  why it adopted a policy of total war, destroying much of the South, and why  it remains controversial to this day.	2000-02-27
US	52819475	R2ZZXQ8PVQ0Z75	0684803305	874197393	A Bridge Too Far: The Classic History of the Greatest Battle of World War II	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Another classic WWII Book	This book is a powerful and well documented account of Operation Marker Garden.  Mr. Ryan gives a vivid desciption and analysis of why Monty's ambitious plan failed.  He covers both sides of the story (Allies and Axis)  at such great lengths that you almost feel as if you are right in the  middle of the action yourself.<br />The most compelling part of Mr. Ryan's  book is his perspective of this disaster from the individual soldier level,  both officer and enlisted.  The drama that resulted from this opeartion,  especially in Arnhem, will keep you turning the pages to find out what  happens in the end.<br />I definitely recommend this book for anyone who has  read Mr. Ryan's other books (The Longest Day, The Last Battle), or has an  interest in WWII, and airborne operations.  The movie that was made based  on this book is also a classic.	2000-02-27
US	52819475	RX619UM6WHQPS	0671890913	686500362	The Longest Day: The Classic Epic of D-Day	Books	5	91	93	N	N	Great Book about the first twenty-four hours of D-Day	A masterful account of the first twenty-four hours of the D-Day invasion.  Mr. Ryan transports the reader all over the battlefield, giving numerous perspectives (both allies and axis) to the events that unfolded on June 6,  1944.<br />When I was a company commander serving in Germany, I required all  my company officers to read this book as part of their professional  development.  They all thanked me afterwards for introducing them to one of  Mr. Ryan's classic WWII books.<br />I highly recommend this book for anyone  who has an interest in WWII, or has read any of Mr. Ryan's other books (A  Bridge Too Far, The Last Battle).  Personally, I read this book and viewed  the film (which is also a classic) before visiting the Normandy beaches.  I  felt this preparation made my trip to Normandy more meaningful and  enjoyable.	2000-02-27
US	52819475	R1XV639712EUI7	0061091987	848321606	The Bloody Ground (The Starbuck Chronicles, Book 4)	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Not the best Starbuck, but excellent battlefield desciptions	I have read the whole series and this book is not the best one.  I think that the first two books- Rebel and Copperhead are better than the last two- Battle Flag and The Bloody Ground.<br />The battlefield scene  desciptions are very good and alone make it worth reading. I just was not  impressed with the character development, especially for the new ones  introduced in this book.<br />I do hope that Mr. Cornwell continues the  series, I would hate to see it end at this point.	1999-07-21
US	52819475	R3SUP8Y3OIRKR2	0345422473	947191478	Gods and Generals: A Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Not as good as Killer Angels, but an easy read	Although this book is not as good as Killer Angels, I thought that Gods and Generals was interesting, well researched, and easy to read.<br />Jeff Shaara covers a much greater time span in his book (from the beginning of  the war up to Gettysburg) than his father did in Killer Angels, which is  quite a challenge.  If you are looking for the kind of detail that Killer  Angels has, you may be disappointed.<br />Jeff seems to have chosen to focus  more on the men who shaped the war, than the battles themselves.  He does  not overkill you with facts and figures which I thought made for an easier  read than some Civil War books.  My interest level increased with each  chapter as he continued to develop the main players of the book.<br />The most  interesting character in the book was General Jackson.  When I finished it,  the biggest question in my mind was what would Gettysburg have been like if  Jackson had survived?	1999-07-20
