US	52812730	R2XHABEC5NH9YW	0151011400	906795518	The Mysterious Flame of Queen Loana	Books	1	8	19	N	Y	A good idea squandered	The first section of this book is really very good, so it was particularly disappointing that Eco did not follow through with his initial idea.  Instead, he uses the main character to rehash some fairly common criticisms of popular culture.  For some reason, he gives detailed plot summaries of numerous comics and books for young people, which is tedious.  One just cannot understand what it is that so fascinates the narrator about all of these old comics and mystery novels.  By the end, Eco has completely forgotten about Paola, and the persona of his narrator.  Then the book just ends.  Pffft.	2005-09-10
US	52812730	ROEB2HHJHZZHY	1401301819	957849564	The Third Translation	Books	1	6	9	N	N	Good potential, bad book	As just about everyone else has stated, this is a very boring book.  I think one problem is that there is nothing at stake.  This character has to find some inconsequential relic or his career will be ruined.  Career?  He appears to be some kind of perpetual graduate student.	2005-06-02
US	52812730	R1MRV1231JX70I	0262122596	152422127	Radiant Cool: A Novel Theory of Consciousness (Bradford Books)	Books	1	2	12	N	N	Not really a novel	As one writer put it, this would be a good book to assign as part of an introduction to neuroscience, or as a text in a philosphy course.  It does not really work as a novel. Everyone is just too overwrought over nothing.  These are pretty abstract ideas to become this hysterical about.	2005-06-02
US	52812730	R2TFXJND3MG7ID	1582342245	788796223	The Dark Fields	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Better than I expected.	Frankly, I thought the blurbs on this novel damned it with faint praise. Some writer said it was a good &quot;start&quot; for Glynn.  Someone else called it &quot;slick.&quot;  I was expecting it to be kind of a silly romp.  Instead, I thought the idea of this drug posed interesting questions.  So what if it kills you.  Life is terminal.  I want some!  I had no fault to find with the writing style.  It was fast and transparent.  That is a lot more difficult to achieve than many realize.  This is a very good thriller.	2004-05-08
US	52812730	R3LYM411K81A8T	0395963494	15085847	Bay of Souls: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Farfetched, but fun.	I was surprised that Stone's fans were so disappointed with this novel.  It isn't perfect, but it is certainly a thrilling story.<br />Midway through the course of his life, Michael Ahearn finds himself in a dark woods, with the right way obscured.  From there, things really start to go downhill.  Ahearn's descent into the inferno provides the reader with an exciting ride.  The feeling that he deserves his fate enhanced my enjoyment of this misadventure.  When we first meet Ahearn, he is a study in hypocrisy.  In the opening scene, he is giving his son a bunch of transparently insincere reasons why he cannot join his father's hunting trip.  We accompany Ahearn on this trip to discover that he loathes hunting, and in particular despises the kind of people who hunt to put food on the table.  Ahearn sends his son to a Catholic school, although he really despises Catholics and cringes at the school's influence over his son.   Ahearn likes to keep up a façade of religiosity while harboring a petulant resentment against the universe for failing to provide the fairy-tale god of his childhood Sunday school classes.  <br />For most of the story, we are limited to Ahearn's perception.  We really are not given any insight into his wife's feelings, although we can see that she is distant and discontent.  We see Ahearn becoming infatuated with a woman who really quite frightening.  The point of view is quite effective here because any attempt to explain or interpret this relationship would be impossible.  You simply have to accept that it is happening.  The limited narration is especially effective at the end of the story, because Ahearn does not seem to understand why he has become frightening to others.  We merely see them being frightened for no apparent reason.  But Ahearn seems as benighted spiritually as he ever was.  The meaning of his experience to the author remains rather vague.  I think this made the novel less satisfying then Stone's earlier works.	2003-05-17
US	52812730	RHO5QIYDULRVT	0743244249	195828381	Cosmopolis: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Witty and incisive	Don Delillo is the perferct author to try to understand the rise and collapse of the economic bubble as the century flipped into Y2K.  He has penetrated a number America's peculiar cultural hysterias: environmental fears (White Noise); conspiracy theories surrounding the assassination of John F. Kennedy (Libra); Moonies and mass marriages (Mao II), and now this latest mass hypnosis masquerading as economics.  The objects of Delillo's scrutiny are cultural phenomena rather than human foibles. His characters become icons for certain events, metaphoric translations.  They could not endure quotidian existence.  They are not human, and this quality may repel some readers.  Yet, there is satisfaction in the way Delillo gives articulate form to something the reader will have sensed, something recognized as familiar in recent experience.<br />Delillo also has a wonderful sensitivity for words.  He makes some fun observations here about the argot of the Internet and high tech culture.  I had not before recognized what a quaint anachronism \\"Automated Teller Machine\\" is.  Delillo treats his readers to a number of such observations about our language.  I believe that Don Delillo's \\"Underworld\\" was without rival the best fictional work about America in the twentieth century.  This is a much narrower work, but it displays the wit and penetration that shines in Delillo's best works.	2003-05-16
US	52812730	ROJPJPGZSYYEV	0670031720	28976631	Drop City	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Boyle's Best Yet	Boyle rivals John Steinbeck's ability to create characters who would frighten and repel the average reader, and then make that reader care about the fate of those characters.  This story taps all of Boyle's best talents.	2003-04-25
US	52812730	R24EXIPGAJJJUY	0679753796	323270866	Dance Dance Dance	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	A more gentle Murakami	If you have not read &quot;The Wind Up Bird Chronicle,&quot; I strongly recommend it.  It is Murakami's best and most complex novel dealing with the images and themes explored in &quot;Dance, Dance, Dance.&quot;  This is a sweeter story, a kind of love story, set in the strange landscape of Murakami's parallel universes.  Although it is not quite as thought provoking as &quot;Wind Up Bird,&quot; it is very engrossing and enjoyable.	2003-04-25
US	52812730	R2WCTRJQG3JE1R	0805071709	515201292	What I Loved: A Novel	Books	5	22	35	N	Y	Excellent observations for a very specific audience.	This is a novel about the arts, their place in society and the role that criticism plays in the art world.  If you are not interested in these things, than the focus of this narration will seem oddly skewed.  For instance, the odd characters in this novel react to the mutilation of an admired painting with sincere heartfelt outrage.  Their reaction to news of the mutilation and murder of a living boy later in the story is more ambivalent.  The author is very much in control of this material however, and carefully draws her reader's attention to consider the parallels and distinctions between these two situations.  Ultimately, this novel is a condemnation of the developments in painting, poetry, and literature that occurred in the 1970's and 1980's, particularly the rise of criticism or \\"deconstruction\\" and the disintegration of the creative impulse that this rise triggered.  <br />Hustvedt brings into vivid focus a group of exquisitely sensitive, self-absorbed artists and critics in the first part of this novel.  The entire first third of the book is devoted to making the reader familiar with the peculiar values of this world.  These are the people who frequent the trendy galleries of Manhattan and teach at the prestigious universities.  Our narrator, Leo, and his wife are professors who have the luxury to spend their days analyzing and deconstructing works of art.  The artist that Leo discovers is soon free to spend his days constructing little boxes with symbolic things inside of them.  That these characters all take these activities very seriously does not strike the reader as remarkable at all while we are in the universe of Part One. In that universe, these are serious activities indeed. <br />I liked Part One.  I recognized these people and relished the accurate particulars of this kind of life.  I was dismayed therefore when Part Two opened up with the death of a child.  Oh no! Not this again!  But not to worry, we are not headed toward an Oprah book club selection.  Actually, the death of the art critic's child is foreshadowed in Part One.  He is just a little too delicate, a little to precious for life.  His death, however, sets up Leo to become involved with the artist's living creation who turns out to be a monster.  <br />As Leo is drawn out of his sheltered idyllic universe into the places where most of life swarms, we begin to see how effete and sterile his own world has become.  There is a very funny scene where Leo finds himself in the Opryland Hotel in Nashville of all places.  Here is a man whose sensibilities recoil from the slightest whisper of bad taste.  His encounter with Opryland completely disorients and finally disables him, so that he must retreat to New York City and take some tranquilizers.  It is a little subtle, but the humor is clearly intended.  <br />Hustvedt's novel gives narrative shape to the collapse of creativity under the weight of a particularly pernicious style of criticism.  This it does excellently.	2003-03-30
US	52812730	R2UARJZBNCH4F1	0971156913	631941720	Into the Heart of Truth: The Spirit of Relational Yoga	Books	2	92	102	N	Y	Who is he writing to?	This book has wonderful illustrations:  figures from eastern spiritual traditions that capture all the mystery and complexity of the subject.  Unfortunately, the author does not refer to these figures or incorporate their complexities into his text.  I always bristle when someone starts going on about what &quot;We&quot; think and feel.  This author's overuse of the &quot;We&quot; construction is particularly annoying because the audience he envisions is a collection of besotted sensualists.  No, Mr. McAfee, my personal relationships do not all eventually disintegrate into jealousy and possessiveness.  I am very sorry for you if yours do.  At one point, McAfee suggests that the reader go to a cocktail party and refrain from drinking, &quot;just as an experiment&quot; to see how stupid everyone else sounds.  Who over the age of 25 has not had this experience?  Furthermore, these admonitions strike me as awfully self-righteous.  We all have our own personal demons.<br />It seems quite odd that someone writing a book purporting to be about the yoga of relationships would assume, as McAfee does, that his readers have never questioned the nature of the self, or even that they do not understand that the image of the self carried in the conscious mind is an illusion.  This idea is the very heart of yoga.  <br />There is little substance in this book.  The author's comments about meditation at the conclusion are worthwhile, but most students of yoga will already be aware of the techniques he suggests.  If you are interested in the concept of the self in yoga, I suggest &quot;Raja-Yoga,&quot; by Swami Vivekananda.  This an astonishingly insightful series of essays written around the turn of the century followed by a very cogent commentary on the Sutras of Patanjali.	2003-01-09
US	52812730	R2Y5I2QHIWH4X8	0609608886	482506264	The Dhammapada: The Sayings of the Buddha (Sacred Teachings)	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	Perfect	This translation captures all the depth and complexity of this teaching in sparse poetic lines.  My life had been enriched immeasurably by contact with this text.  Its meaning grows with every encounter.	2003-01-09
US	52812730	R39RZ0EUIK1R8Y	0679439382	39256491	The Little Friend	Books	1	14	19	N	Y	A whole lot of nothing going on.	I am just completely baffled that the author of \\"The Secret History\\" could have written such a pointless and unsophisticated book.  I could not put \\"The Secret History\\" down.  I cared about its lonely narrator even as he was drawn into this fantastic and terrible group of friends.  That book was witty, allusive and self-conscious.  <BR>This book devotes an entire chapter to the death of the family cat as though that really were a significant event.  Some reviewers suggest that there is some kind of social commentary on racial injustice going on here.  Are they kidding?  These characters came right out of \\"Gone with the Wind.\\"  This is like 555 pages of Nancy Drew.  Twelve year olds are just not that interesting.	2002-11-03
US	52812730	R2EAD0CSC2Y76W	0385720920	729613164	Choke	Books	1	3	13	N	Y	Such a mean view of the world	I have the good fortune to say that I have never encountered anyone remotely like the people in this novel.  I finally concluded that I was just not the target audience for this novel.  Some people thought this was funny?!  Compulsive sex adicts throbbing lovelessly away on the bathroom floor?  Ugh.	2002-08-30
US	52812730	R3DF326J2WXCFL	0786885688	574463302	Shopgirl: A Novella	Books	5	1	2	N	N	True.	This is such an accurate portrayal of the life of a single woman in a big city, that it almost took me back to a place I would never want to revisit.  I wonder if I had read this during those dark times, I might have set about fixing myself a little earlier.  I highly recommend this book to any young woman who cannot make out the light at the end of the tunnel.	2002-06-19
US	52812730	R15RWLODN1GSKX	0446602698	278983300	The Juror	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Entertainment with a little extra	This novel doesn't pretend to be anything other than a diversion.  It gives the reader exactly what he bargained for.  Beyond that  the book provides a deeper level of characterization than you usually find in such novels.  I particularly enjoyed how attractive the author made the villain.  It added an element of excitement.  I also liked the way the main character faced up to the private quality of her trendy art boxes.  On the other hand, I found the young boy's sexual obsession with the juror's girlfriend odd and out of place.  It was kind of distateful without contributing anything to the plot.  That is just a quibble however, this is a good airplane novel.	2001-11-27
US	52812730	R3RP109YFR96IL	067972267X	76818172	A Pale View of Hills	Books	4	22	25	N	Y	View of memory's tricks	A quote from The New York Times book Review on the back cover characterizes this book as elliptical, and it certainly is that, maybe a bit overly so.  At the end, I began to wonder if Sachiko and Mariko were actually imaginary characters that allowed Etsuko to think about the past, but that doesn't really work.  Where would Mrs. Fujiwara fit in?  It seems that Etsuko has the events that took place during her friendship with Sachiko mixed up in her memory with events that occurred later when she was deciding to leave Nagasaki.  When she tells the child on the bridge that if she doesn't like it over there, they can always come back, she is remembering a conversation she had with Keiko, even though she had been thinking about Mariko up until that point.  Memory does work like that sometimes.<br />Since Etsuko doesn't like to dwell on the events that preceded her arrival in London, thinking about Sachiko gives her a way of seeing them from a safe distance.  I would have liked a few more clues, however, about how a woman like Etsuko ever extricated herself from a marriage to a man like Jiro.  I thought Niki's assumption that Etsuko would not have wanted Ogata-San in the household nicely demonstrated the impossibility of explaining the way things were supposed to have been before the war, and how terrible it was for Etsuko to find herself alone with Jiro.<br />The point is that memory only provides a pale view.  The past is always going to be a fiction.  It is a worthwhile examination of this problem	2001-11-27
US	52812730	R34G0GH3BY88O6	0786866527	474101056	Experience	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	A Treat For Amis Fans	Readers expecting anecdotes and gossip about Amis's literary friends and  family will be disappointed.  This is not actually a memoir, but a creative  work that revisits the themes developed in Amis's previous books such as  the relationship between an author's experience and his creative work, the  place of the narrator in a work of fiction, and the lost illusion of a  caring, omnipotent god.  <br /> Reviewers who approached this book as a  literary memoir were understandably puzzled by Amis's apparent obsession  with the disappearance of his cousin, Lucy Partington, in 1973.  Twenty  years later the family learned that she had been murdered by a serial  murderer.  This is a family tragedy, certainly, but a private sort of  tragedy.  Yet, Amis returns to the subject again and again and in the  oddest places.  At one point, he is going to have all of his upper teeth  pulled and he starts worrying about Lucy Partington.  I think the place of  Lucy Partington in Amis's imagination does take shape in this book in an  interesting way.  Still, I understand the resistance to his having made  this tragedy such a personal affair.   <br />The book has that blurry  distinction between the accidental and the created world that is part of  the fun of an Amis novel.  One wonders if a dentist in Argentina actually  sent Amis an essay about dental imagery in Joyce's &quot;Ulysses&quot; with  the comment that there is much in the novel &quot;transcending the purely  dental.&quot; (p. 180)  <br />I had written a longer review, but I see I am  preceeded by some excellent comments by other readers.  Oddly enough, the  negative comments seem as true as the positive.  That is sort of the way  Martin Amis's books are.  I doubt if someone completely unfamiliar with  Martin Amis would pick up this book, but I would recommend reading some of  his other fiction first, particularly, &quot;London Fields&quot; and  &quot;Time's Arrow.&quot;  Anyone who has not read Kingsley Amis's  &quot;LuckyJim&quot; ought to do so anyway just for the pure delight of  it, but it, too, is sort of a prerequisite to Martin Amis's  &quot;Memoirs.&quot;  For readers who wait impatiently for a new work by  Martin Amis, this book will be a treat.	2000-08-19
US	52812730	R990VAA5FDREY	0374286663	35205496	The Way I Found Her	Books	3	6	10	N	Y	Diverting but Disappointing	This story holds your interest.  It got me through a transatlantic flight, and that recommends it.  It could have been such a great book though, that I was left feeling disappointed.<br /> The first two parts of the book  present a thirteen-year old boy coming to terms with the fact that his  beautiful mother not only has the morals of a cat but also is too stupid  and self-absorbed ever to love him or his sweet, gentle father.  This is a  real crisis for an adolescent boy.  I was really looking forward to the way  Tremain would resolve the conflict.  The mother and the boy are so vividly  brought to life.  He is a dear boy, sensitive, considerate and articulate.   The reader feels confident that he will be able to make some kind of peace  with his situation.<br /> Suddenly, this delicate story is tossed out and  replaced with a silly fantasy involving mad Russian kidnappers, complete  with &quot;significant&quot; chess matches and lover's communicating  through a chink in the wall.  Yawn.  Too bad.  Maybe Tremain was getting to  close to some kind of personal truth and lost courage.  Go for it again,  Rose, you were almost there.	2000-05-29
US	52812730	R2Z92C7QMQFAX2	0786862866	251140440	The Wooden Bowl: Simple Meditations for Everyday Life	Books	3	10	14	N	Y	Not for beginners	I would emphasize what one of the other reviewer's stated.  This is a very interesting account of one man's path to meditation, but you really have to read it carefully.  It is not a prescription for beginners.  At about the  third chapter it occurred to me that the author was not talking so much  about meditation but his own struggle to cope with extreme depression.	1999-12-21
US	52812730	R14PSU65HJ2YGM	1565122348	587195374	Fool: A Novel	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	Sweet and subtle	This celebration of the human spirit has a most unlikely hero: a stockbroker and flimflam artist.  Throughout the novel, Barnaby Griswold wrestles with a self-loathing so complete that it defines him.  The  narrative presents Barnaby as he sees himself, so the reader has little  hope for him.  The strategy works well in the end, as the character slowly  evolves from clown into human complexity.<br />I was surprised by the story's  direction after the flippant tone of the opening narrative led me to expect  a farce or romantic comedy. The story moves very slowly, not the pace of  comedy at all.  The tennis game that begins the story is literally in slow  motion.  The crisis is viewed in retrospect, so we are given Barnaby's wry  perspective of it.  I loved the author's use of the tiger motif to deflect  Barnaby's own self-deprecation and remind us that even stockbrokers have  human potential.  What happens in the end remains appropriately open to  chance, as is life.<br />You could almost see this as a contemporary rewrite  of Dickens's &quot;A Christmas Carol,&quot; only without the  sentimentality.  After his quiet epiphany, Barnaby does not become a great  philanthropist or spiritual leader; he simply fulfills some personal  responsibilities.  Nice.	1999-12-06
US	52812730	RI0OZ5KUZHX17	0395944775	528826728	A Book of Reasons	Books	3	5	5	N	Y	Interesting, odd, yet incomplete	John Vernon has the task of cleaning out his brother's house after his brother dies of a sudden illness.  He discovers that his brother lived in an abyss of hopelessness and depression.  This book is his attempt to come  to terms with that discovery, and the questions of personal responsibility  it raises for him.  Should he have known how his brother was suffering?   Could he have helped?  Was he required to?  <br />In the beginning Vernon  tries to approach these daunting questions in a light-hearted search for  the reasons.  Why the thermometer, for instance?  His musings along these  lines are quite interesting.  He meanders through all sorts of unrelated  arcane lore looking for connections, for the reasons why things happen the  way they do.  Ultimately, however, he has to acknowledge that all of these  reasons are beside the point.  He says, finally, &quot;Reasons do have a  limit.  Shall I offer a history of the Pepsi bottle, the cigarette, the  milk carton, the rag?  A history of bad smells?  Even now, in memory, I  feel buried like Paul, trapped in his house, surrounded by the waste of  unexplained things.&quot;<br />This might have been a turning point in the  narrative away from reasons to the limits of personal responsibility, but  the author doesn't go there.  He seems to withdraw into a kind of personal  disgust that pushes away the responsibilities of love and kinship.  He does  not come to terms with his discovery, and this is the drama of the  narrative.  As this drama unfolds, however, I sense that it is no longer  under Vernon's control.  Vernon seems to drift to a place outside of human  relationships, so that the book ends on a strange unresolved note.	1999-12-06
US	52812730	R39CKSUK1LR0WU	0691004439	749023477	The Lives of Animals	Books	1	9	79	N	N	Out of touch	Way out of touch<br />I notice that the author of this book is a professor of English at Cape Town.  That may explain his total ignorance of the premises of the ethical debate on the use of animals for food and medical  experimentation as it is being carried on today in the United States.   <br />This is supposed to be a fictional exposition of the issues raised by  the treatment of animals in contemporary society.  The idea is that a  novelist is invited to give a lecture at an American university where her  son is employed as an instructor.  Instead of talking about novels,  however, she advocates - Gasp!  - Vegetarianism.  Her son is outraged by  this position, inexplicably.  He wishes that she would stay away, never  know her grandchildren, die, actually, simply because she is a  vegetarian.<br />Now, it is true that the lecture given by the mother is very  stupid.  She has this idea that western culture regards the ability to  reason as godlike, so that it justifies human exploitation of animals.  No.   Human reason has never been considered godlike; human reason is the result  of the Fall.  Poets and philosophers have always acknowledged the  limitations of reason.  So, the woman is no scholar.  The text makes this  excuse for her.  Her son keeps fretting that argumentation is not his  mother's strength, that she should not be doing this.  Okay, but why  publish this fictional woman's silly argument?  <br />The son's attitudes are  even more benighted.  On the way to a dinner given for his mother, the son  starts worrying about what will be served:  &quot;So are they, out of  deference to vegetarianism, going to serve nut rissoles to everyone?  Are  her distinguished fellow guests going to have to fret through the evening  dreaming of the pastrami sandwich or the cold drumstick they will gobble  down when they get home?&quot;  <br />What planet is this guy from, anyway?  I  would suggest to Mr. J. M. Coetzee that if he ever has occasion to give a  dinner on anAmerican college campus, he had better have a vegetarian  course. <br />The fictional section is followed by comments from four  essayists on the issues raised by Coetzee's fiction.  Since there is little  of substance to discuss in the fiction, the commentators point out the  problems of responding to an invalid argument presented by an unreliable  fictional narrator, and this they do very nicely.  But, why do it at all?   This book is a sham.	1999-12-06
US	52812730	R1Z61BFJUR0T3O	0393046117	114362560	Mrs. Einstein: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Important addition to literature of WWII	This novel joins Michael Ondaatje's &quot;The English Patient&quot; in  raising important questions about the development of nuclear weapons and  the decision made to use them at the conclusion of World War II.  It is  time for our literature to begin examining these issues.  We have countless  fictional works based on the holocaust in Germany, and certainly, we need  these works.  We need to understand what happened, and how it could have  happened.  Too often, however, American and British authors find the answer  all too easily.  They simply create a fictional universe in which the  German people share a passion for sadism carried to extremes and an average  IQ of about 50.  So much of this literature becomes formulaic, and finally,  silly.  You do not have to scratch &quot;Winds of War&quot; too deeply to  discover Colonel Clink.  Meanwhile, we have our own unpardonable act, which  we have not until recently brought into critical focus. Ondaatje lulls his  readers' attention away from the horrors of war in the charmed atmosphere  of the abandoned hospital where the English patient lays.  This idyll  shatters suddenly with the sapper's undeniable utterance.  &quot;You would  not have dropped this weapon on a white people.&quot;  McGrail's novel  moves in a similar way.  Einstein's abandoned, illegitimate daughter  Lieserl slowly ceases to be a human character, and becomes instead that  aspect of human intellect that made the bomb possible.  She is the  mathematics.  She has no morals, no religion, no values.  She is not  impeded by national boundaries or physical limitations.  She is a force,  supposedly driven by revenge, but that motive cannot be examined too  closely.  In fact, Lieserl does not work as a character with human  motivations, and limitations.  The reader has to accept her as a type of  abstraction or the story becomes entirely implausible.  This woman can  change her identity and nationality by the simple act of changing her name.   She and her companion sail across boundaries and easily assimilate into  the most closed communities. In the context of the American project to  create the bomb, Lieserl becomes the cloud that obscures the light of  ethical considerations from the teams of scientists working on the project.   She is the abstract knowledge, blameless yet responsible.  After the  unthinkable occurs, however, Lieserl has a moment of self-awareness.  She  suddenly realizes that once they had the bomb, the politicians, ignorant of  its actual power, incapable of understanding anything close to its  destructiveness, would certainly use it, and use it proudly.  The novel  brings home the fact that some of those working on the project knew exactly  what they were unleashing on the world.  We need to ask ourselves,  &quot;What can they have been thinking?  Why did they pursue this unwelcome  knowledge? Did they really imagine that the politicians would refrain from  using it?&quot; Once the moment of revelation is past, however, the novel  does not hold together.  McGrail tries to return her character to the  mundane considerations of domestic life, and she really cannot do that.   Lieserl's has to remain figurative in order to be believable.  This is  really a minor problem, however.  The development of this interesting  figure for a mysterious aspect of the human intellect rewards the reader  amply.	1998-09-16
US	52812730	RDMFL9GQ0LOQT	0609601067	897584228	Mendel's Dwarf	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Unique and dramatically satisfying	I think the novel is unique in the way it presents ongoing scientific  research and controversy in the context of well-wrought fiction. The  &quot;Double Helix&quot; by Crick and Watson gave the reader a dramatic  context for the discovery of DNA, but there was no attempt to create a  fictional world.  Mawer makes the stakes real for us by creating a real  character, the geneticist, Benedict Lambert. Genetic research becomes  dramatic, exhilarating and tragic in the fictional context of Ben's ethical  dilemma. The geneticist's ability to select which sperm to use raises the  ethical issues behind genetic research.  Whenever these issues arise in  public debate, there is always that latent fear that man will be punished  if he attempts to &quot;play god,&quot; that we haven't the right to  attempt to control our fate with knowledge.  The fear is as old as  Prometheus.  Mawer demonstrates that the fear is based on an illusory  power.  We never need to worry that our knowledge will overcome the chaos  of creation.  Our power is always subject to the infinite number of chances  that determine the way things are.  The ending perfectly coordinates the  fictional drama with the real life issues raised by the discoveries Mawer  has been revealing all along.	1998-09-02
US	52812730	R1YQE87I9GP65P	1558532730	410501913	After the War	Books	3	3	10	N	Y	Well written, but emotionally flat	This is a serious book, and well written, yet it fails to move me.  It  lacks an intelligence that cares about what is going on, if not the  narrator, then the narrator's creator.  Marius's narrator is such a dull,  immature, self-centered character that it is difficult to get interested in  what happens to him.  He doesn't care.  He doesn't care about what happens  in his own life.  He doesn't care about his mother and sister in Greece.   He just wants to sit in his little room daydreaming about his college  chums.  <br />At one point, the older version of Paul reflects, &quot;I am  angry at the stupid innocence of the young man I was then, which makes me  in this later time want to slap him across the face and shout at him and  tell him to grow up, to be different, to be somebody else.&quot;  Indeed,  but this doesn't happen until page 373.  Throughout the entire first part  of the book, Marius presents Paul's mumbling &quot;I do not want to talk  about it&quot; stance as heroic.  It is difficult to understand why  everyone in this Tennessee town courts this silent foreigner.  Paul will  say ponderous things like, &quot;After he [Bernal] died, I never did  mathematics again.&quot; (Page 155)  Well, why not?  What has Bernal's  death got to do with Paul doing mathematics?  Are we supposed to think that  Paul is sacrificing his supposedly great talent as some kind of offering to  Bernal?  Actually, the statement is not true.  Paul goes to work as a  chemist in which capacity he must use mathematics to some extent.  Very few  people continue to do theoretical math once they are out of college.  It is  just a silly adolescent sort of thing to say.  But you do not get enough  acknowledgement from Paul the elder, sitting at his kitchen table years  later, that this is a very foolish young man.    <br />On the other hand,  Marius does present a very complex story coherently.  I only question his  narrative strategy.  The narrator is such a stumbling block it is  surprising that Marius didn't see the limitations of such a narrow approach  to his subject.  For instance, Marius intends to address the bigotry faced  by immigrants to small American towns after the War.  These Tennessee  people hold themselves above the descendants of Virgil and Homer, and yet  cannot even tell a Greek from a Belgian!  That circumstance could have been  used more effectively, however, if Paul were just a little more Greek.  Why  have him give up his bazooka?  That was one of the few interesting things  about him.  Or, the fact that he has taken this rather menial job would  mean more to the reader if, at the same time, he were thinking of problems  in theoretical mathematics.<br />The parts of Marius's book that I enjoyed  were those where Paul is confronting these odd Tennesseans and trying to  figure out the rules of this particular game.  If we had a Greek  mathematician trying to fit into a small town in Tennessee at the turn of  the century, that would have been an interesting book.  I could not  understand at all the fixation on Bernal and Guy.  Maybe Marius intended  these characters to be &quot;symbols of the past&quot; or something equally  abstract and silly, but they just don't work.  I think here the problem is  that we know all too well these feelings of nostalgia for carefree days of  drinking beer in the student union.  To raise this banal itch to such level  of personal agony seems a bit bathetic.	1998-09-01
US	52812730	R3C04NXETXBFUX	0870814796	377008283	The Meade Solution	Books	1	0	2	N	Y	Misogynous, Vicious and Vulgar	Misogynist, Vicious, and Vulgar: All of these sins we would forgive, if only the novel were funny.  Its failure to amuse results, in part, from the fact that the author has not bothered to flesh out his story.  He initiates a scene and then inserts three dots and skips to another without creating a coherent narrative.  We have an outline of a parody of contemporary graduate English studies with no substance.  An equally serious failure is the author's unawareness of the state of English departments in today's universities. The job market did not collapse because senile professors were holding on to tenured positions, as Conley suggests, but rather because University administrators determined that they could no longer afford to pay people to worry about the number of syllables in a line of Chaucer.  Undergraduate English is taught by adjunct part-time faculty members while graduate English departments are dying by attrition.  There is good grist for parody's mill in this!  situation, but Conley has not taken advantage of it. The situations and characters in this novel are simply not recognizable.  Good parody requires an intimate knowledge of the subject.  This book seems to have been written about another time and place.  For a very funny parody of the traditional graduate English department, see A. S. Byatt's Possession.	1998-07-26
US	52812730	R1CFC4M5JIKTBO	0385490607	967520774	Medea	Books	1	8	19	N	Y	A flat presentation of this fascinating character	Margaret Atwood's brief introduction to this novel leads one to expect a feminist revision of the Medea story.  Unfortunately, Wolf does not really do anything with the story except resurrect the characters.  The story is supposed to be presented from the different perspectives of several of the characters.  Chapter titles indicate who is speaking.  If we were not told that the fictional narrator had changed, however, we would not know from anything presented in the story.  They all have the same petulant, nagging tone.  A writer must do something radical with such a story to justify a modern retelling, such as Joyce did with Ulysses.  So often, modern writers assume that it is enough to diminish the characters and have them speak in an informal idiom.  Wolf presents Jason as simply stupid, and Medea as a carping divorce.  The only twist Wolf gives to the story is to make Medea the innocent victim of false accusations.  I guess that is supposed to be the feminist slant! ! .  Yawn.  Medea is so wonderfully horrific; we do not need this whining, watered-down contemporary version.	1998-07-16
US	52812730	R71VASS5061FZ	0679777547	582743995	The Club Dumas	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Elegant and Complex	This is one of the great ones!  Its treatment of the interplay between fiction and the stories we construct with our lives is both elegant and complex.  It is delightful too, to know that only a select audience can savor the intricacies of the plot.  You must have the intimate knowledge of fiction which comes of love.  The author never resorts to cheap tricks either, the novel satisfies from cover to cover.	1998-06-19
