US	52821609	R1J944K1EEVYYL	0520236599	693914579	The Klamath Knot: Explorations of Myth and Evolution, Twentieth Anniversary Edition	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Overlooked gem of natural philosophy	Nature writing always carries something of the romantic with it, and this is its greatest strength and greatest curse. As a strength, it provides a window into the sublime limit which nature opens for her human observers. Such romanticism is a weakness, however, if it devolves into a reified hymn to an imagined nature which is as unreal as the imagined un-nature from which one hopes to fly. Nature is not a paradigm, is not a given. One has to meet it, encounter it, realize one's place in it, hear what it has to say, say something back to it, wonder about it, and allow it to remain mystery. The best nature writing has does this -- think of Walden, and how Thoreau allows the pond to retain its power and dignity while plumbing its depths, measuring its boundaries, cataloging its flora and fauna, and descibing his own very human comings and goings around its then mostly deforested banks. In the end, we know a lot about the pond, and even more about Thoreau, but Walden remains Walden, the myth, the legend. Having been lucky enough to have lived close to Walden for several years, I can tell you that no amount of reading about Walden, even at Walden, can capture the life of the pond. Thoreau's book takes the measure of the pond, and makes it real in a way that the real Walden always has been, yet never quite is.<br />Wallace's book accomplishes this for the Klamath mountains of northern California, home of great trees, deep lakes, and sasquatch. His book never holds the Klamath at arm's length, as the romantic impulse al too often wants to do, but rather gives an account of the terrain, measures it out, proposes a history and a taxonomy of the land and the fields and the rivers which captures so much about the place, but never pretends to total knowledge. He writes (as did Aristotle about his fish, and Thoreau about his flowers) as a scientist with the soul of a poet, or perhaps a poet with a scientist's eye. Of course, Wallace is neither a scientist nor a poet (neither were Aristotle or Thoreau), and so what we see is Wallace's experience of the Kalamath, not Klamath poetry and Klamath science. And of course, that is all we can see, just as all we can see in Walden the book is Thoreau's experience of Walden the pond. Such places cannot be captured by a single perspective, but will not be seen at all unless a single perspective widens the vision for the rest of us. There are many small ponds around Concord, Mass, but Thoreau went to live at Walden. And there are many wild knots of mountains and rivers still scattered around this nation, and the world. Each one needs a Thoreau, or a Wallace, or an Ed Abbey, or Aldo Leopold, or Muir, or Whitman, to bring it to our vision in a way we may have never seen it before. I daresay the lumbermen who cut the trees on Walden's shores saw the same water and sky as Thoreau -- but it was Thoreau's way of seeing it that lasted. Wallace's view is the one that needs to last, to stick in the mind, concerning the Klamath region.<br />Wallace's theme in the book is an \\"evolutionary myth,\\" one that tells a story about the land which provides a key to meaning. He writes, \\"Moses forced his society to accept a unifying law; Jesus forced his to accept the unity of all of humanity; Darwin forced his to accept the unity of all of life\\" (8). He acknowledges that placing Darwin in league with Moses and Jesus will strike some as odd, but Wallace is a man with a vision. He points out that \\"both religion and science are mythologies, in the sense that each provides the individual with an account of the origins and meanings of life. It seems to me irrelevant, in this mythological sense, whether such accounts are facts or fictions. They need only to provide their believers with a workable key to life, an invisible world of origins and meanings to help them make sense of an often confusing, sometimes frightening, physical world\\" (8). Following this idea, he presents his explorations of the Klamath as a playing-out of anevolutionary mythology, a story about how the land came to be, what it might mean, and how the story fits in with the rest of life. It is a powerful and original story he tells, and bound to last. More than a memoir of a love-affair with a place, and more than a naturalist's account of a fragile and vanishing ecosystem, Wallace's book is a testament to the power of a place to transform one's very understanding of the world, and what it means to be human in that world after the knot has been unraveled, and then re-tied. It is a powerful and meaningful vision of lost wild places which avoids romanticism and doomsaying, and which holds as much hope as horror about the loss and preservation of the American wilderness.evolutionary mythology, a story about how the land came to be, what it might mean, and how the story fits in with the rest of life. It is a powerful and original story he tells, and bound to last. More than a memoir of a love-affair with a place, and more than a naturalist's account of a fragile and vanishing ecosystem, Wallace's book is a testament to the power of a place to transform one's very understanding of the world, and what it means to be human in that world after the knot has been unraveled, and then re-tied. It is a powerful and meaningful vision of lost wild places which avoids romanticism and doomsaying, and which holds as much hope as horror about the loss and preservation of the American wilderness.	2004-03-31
US	52821609	R1VE0PUY9CQ2C7	0800632931	191808215	Jesus Humanity and the Trinity	Books	4	27	27	N	N	A Christocentric, very, very brief systematic theology.	This is a nice little volume from Tanner, and one can only hope that the larger systematic that will eventually come from her pen will continue her ability to communicate difficult trinitarian language into useable language for both religious and lay believers. At only 134 pages, she chooses to focus on only a few of the classical doctrines which will outline the faith proclaimed by the churches, and she chooses wisely. Her book breaks down into four sections: (1) Jesus, (2) The Theological Structure of Things, (3) The Shape of Human Life, and (4) The End, or, roughly, Christology, Methodology, Anthropology, and Eschatology. For Tanner, none of the last three can be understood in the Christian paradigm without an understanding of the role of Jesus in the Christian faith. Now, one might question the order of presentation here, since a full-blown Christology is difficult to begin with. However, she rightly realizes that it is Christian faith, after all, faith in Jesus the Christ, which defines Christian theology, and so her focus on Christology is both inventive and stimulating. Also, her Christology turns out to be a Jesusology, but not in a pursuit of the historical Jesus, so she approaches the matter in a decidcedly original way.<br />Much recent theology, of course, has perhaps suffered from a surfreit of Christology, to the point of Christomonism in some cases. Tanner takes her christocentrism in a different direction, however, and manages to speak about the historical figure of Jesus not as a subject of history, but as a focus of Christian faith. She thus moves towards an overthrow of the Jesus of History - Christ of Faith dichotomy, by understanding the way that contemporary church people can focus on the Jesus of Faith, so to speak. She takes accounts in the early church of Jesus and reworks them into a view of a &quot;graced human life&quot; (21), seen in Jesus. All of this makes the concept of the Trinity a very human-centered doctrine (which is refreshing), and while she devotes space to a discussion of the immanent Trinity, for Tanner, the economic Trinity is the immanent Trinity, and in her hands the Trinity becomes a very practical doctrine indeed. In a way, one could say that, according to Tanner, Jesus' humanity leads into the doctrine of the Trinity because the trinitarian perichoresis (the divine &quot;dance,&quot; literally) includes, in the Incarnation, God, creation, and humanity. Her conclusions about the human nature of Jesus' divinity lead into a very relational theology, of God as transcendent and yet gift-giving, and this saves the sometimes rigid systematic form from ossification.<br />Tanner's theological sources are firmly in the Reformed tradition, and she makes very heavy use of Barth throughout the text -- scarcely a page goes by without his name. Karl Rahner also shows up more than a few times, which is a nice juxtaposition with Barth at times, and Tillich is wholly absent. This is as it should be, given Tanner's (mostly unspoken) focus on Incarnation -- Tillich is largely without the Incarnation in his theology, and the humanity of Jesus means something different for him than it does Tanner.<br />On the whole, this is a successful book as long as it tries to relate all the doctrines of the faith back to her understanding of Jesus. If this perspective is lost, however, the book often seems arbitrary in its argument about Jesus' significance, especially in its main topic, i.e. the Trinity. However, there is no reason why one should lose sight of Tanner's position on Jesus, since it is well argued very early in the text. Whether the reader will follow Tanner in her interpretation of Jesus is another matter, but she has given good practical reasons why this reading of Jesus allows for useful contemporary visions of the Trinity. Tanner's book thus adds a welcome voice to the conversation about the significance of systematic theology for contemporary Christian belief.and while she devotes space to a discussion of the immanent Trinity, for Tanner, the economic Trinity is the immanent Trinity, and in her hands the Trinity becomes a very practical doctrine indeed. In a way, one could say that, according to Tanner, Jesus' humanity leads into the doctrine of the Trinity because the trinitarian perichoresis (the divine &quot;dance,&quot; literally) includes, in the Incarnation, God, creation, and humanity. Her conclusions about the human nature of Jesus' divinity lead into a very relational theology, of God as transcendent and yet gift-giving, and this saves the sometimes rigid systematic form from ossification.<br />Tanner's theological sources are firmly in the Reformed tradition, and she makes very heavy use of Barth throughout the text -- scarcely a page goes by without his name. Karl Rahner also shows up more than a few times, which is a nice juxtaposition with Barth at times, and Tillich is wholly absent. This is as it should be, given Tanner's (mostly unspoken) focus on Incarnation -- Tillich is largely without the Incarnation in his theology, and the humanity of Jesus means something different for him than it does Tanner.<br />On the whole, this is a successful book as long as it tries to relate all the doctrines of the faith back to her understanding of Jesus. If this perspective is lost, however, the book often seems arbitrary in its argument about Jesus' significance, especially in its main topic, i.e. the Trinity. However, there is no reason why one should lose sight of Tanner's position on Jesus, since it is well argued very early in the text. Whether the reader will follow Tanner in her interpretation of Jesus is another matter, but she has given good practical reasons why this reading of Jesus allows for useful contemporary visions of the Trinity. Tanner's book thus adds a welcome voice to the conversation about the significance of systematic theology for contemporary Christian belief.	2004-03-30
US	52821609	R11OC97MO04GF9	0415287588	782140779	Routledge Philosophy GuideBook to Husserl and the Cartesian Meditations (Routledge Philosophy GuideBooks)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	An excellent new book which fills a mighty scholarship gap	Edmund Husserl is really an unsung hero in early twentieth century philosophy. His fundfamental importance for such thinkers as Heidegger and Merleau-Ponty should in and of itself be cause for Husserl's popular rehabilitation; this is the book to accomplish just that.<br />Part of a new publishing venture Routledge press has initiated in order to produce introductory studies on important philosophers (the backlist so far includes thinkers from Plato to the later Heidegger) which are at the same time vital contributions to contemporary scholarship, this volume on Husserl is the first secondary text to address Husserl's Cartesian Meditations, a breathtaking lapse if you think about it, since authors seldom get taught in introductory classes in primary text alone. Husserl's students, intellectual progeny, and even enemies have really been the focus of Husserl studies (much like Irenaeus was the focus of gnostic studies until the full publication of the Nag Hammadi documents several years ago), and anyone wanting an introduction to Husserl's thought had to do the best they could. His work, and the Cartesian Meditations in particular, has been and is deserving of competent, thoughtful commentary, and Smith's volume neatly fits the bill. It is a deep and detailed investigation of the genesis of Husserl's thinking (in itself a phenomenological \\"to the thing itself\\" kind of approach), and almost a line-by-line commentary on the ideas, problems, and contributions of Husserl's book which never fails to remember that it is aimed at newcomers as well as specialists. Plainly put, it is no longer responsible to teach Husserl without this volume, and no class on existentialism, phenomenology, or deconstruction should proceed without it, either.<br />The person seeking to understand Husserl's masterwork should begin with the Cartesian Meditations in one hand and this volume in the other. Incidentally, any doctoral students responsible for the Cartesian Meditations in general exams without the benefit of a faculty that actually teaches Husserl (sadly, a rather common situation)  owes Smith a heartfelt thank-you card. It is a book that makes anyone with Husserlian questions happy. It is not the final word on Husserl's work, but thankfully, it is a very important first word.without the benefit of a faculty that actually teaches Husserl (sadly, a rather common situation)  owes Smith a heartfelt thank-you card. It is a book that makes anyone with Husserlian questions happy. It is not the final word on Husserl's work, but thankfully, it is a very important first word.	2003-12-16
US	52821609	R3EI4ZEDZ0RSKZ	0684836394	321270291	Science and the Modern World	Books	5	16	20	N	N	CLassic little work in the philosophy of science	Whitehead is widely regarded as a humane philosopher in the best sense of that word--a philosopher able to get across very difficult ideas with a wink and a smile. Also, he has always been commended for his prose style in his more intimate writings, at least in his books based on lectures (the best of which are Science in the Modern World and Adventures of Ideas). Process and Reality is difficult but worth the effort; one does need a glossary at times, but this isn't a review of that book.<br /><br />It is hard to imagine a philosophy book written with more clarity than this one. I think that the quotes given by reviewers witness that fact. The only review here, it turns out, which dilikes the book because of its \\"unreadability\\" is the one riddled with spelling and grammatical errors itself. Hard reading, it turns out, is even harder if one cannot spell. With that, I heartily concur.	2003-12-16
US	52821609	R2DCLY5AP26HN7	0486251756	492618490	Parsifal in Full Score (Dover Music Scores)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	An excellent score for listening to a Wagnerian masterpiece	Wagner's Parsifal, his \\"last\\" opera, is also in many ways his most moving on an intellectual and spiritual level. Full of Schopenhauerian resignation which rises beyond the pessimism of The World as Will and Idea into the world of Buddhist renunciation, Parsifal uses Christian metaphor to show the futility of striving and the peace to be gained from release.<br /><br />However, this review will obviously be of the Dover edition of the full score, not the opera itself. Also, I won't comment on the previous negative review, except to add that the reviewer should do Wagner and the world a favor and read Macgee's [[ASIN:080507189X The Tristan Chord: Wagner and Philosophy]], and give the slanderous and bizarre Wagner-Hitler link a well-deserved rest. Wagner was an anti-semite, but to somehow link this to Hitler is a classic example of the genetic fallacy (where did this idea ever come from, anyway? The Nazis loved Beethoven far more than Wagner's left-wing revolutionary aural madness,it never really fit with their style....)<br /><br />The Dover editions of Wagner's full scores are the most useful editions available for actually listening to and studying Wagner's Gesamtkunstwerken, and are a bargain at twice the price. Professional musicians will of course recognize that the G. Schirmer editions are the ones most often used for actual performances and rehearsals, particularly the Schirmer piano reductions (either the good old green hardbacks or the orange paperbacks). But even professionals make good use of the Dover editions, since they are ideal for sitting down with a good set of headphones and a cup of coffee to take in the brilliance that was Wagner.	2003-02-21
US	52821609	R3U292W45PS385	0415050790	93489371	The Presocratic Philosophers (Arguments of the Philosophers)	Books	4	35	35	N	N	A clear, witty, analytic view of the Presocratics	The Kirk, Raven, and Schofield [[ASIN:B000KXC35C Presocratic Philosophers]] tends to be the standard text, but I have to say that Barnes' work is my pick. One can tell from his personal style that he lives with these texts, in much the same way as Barnes' work on Aristotle reveals his affection for the great Macedonian. My \\"analytic\\" desciption in the title of this review is a technical term; Barnes' appointment in philosophy at Oxford indicates to the discerning reader Barnes' philosophical committment towards Anglo-American analytic philosophy, and the asides sprinkled liberally throughout the text show Barnes editorializing on these thinkers as only an analytic philosopher with a dry, British wit can. As a matter of fact, in his worse moments he comes across as only slightly less opinionated and certain of his conclusions than does Lord Russell in the latter's often caustic but always enjoyable History of Western Philosophy. Still, it is Barnes' interpretation of these thinkers, more than his style, that ultimately recommends this work. The condition of the Presocratic texts and their profound age allows for nearly any sort of reading (witness Heidegger's important work on Anaximander, Heraclitus, and Parmenides in particular), and Barnes  tries to situate his subjects within a narrative grouped more around ideas than chronology. The work is in three sections, entitled \\"Eden\\" (the earliest of the Presocratics and their ideas about the nature of matte, etc.), \\"The Serpent\\" (Parmenides and Zeno), and \\"Paradise Regained\\" (Ionian thought, Empedocles, Atomists, et. al.), and there is an \\"Epilogue\\" which ties it all together nicely. Since the thing is arranged in terms of ideas rather than names, it can be difficult if one simply wants, say, the chapter that explains Democritus--there is none. Rather, Democritus (for example) shows up throughout the work, whenever his thought becomes relevent to the flow of the narrative. That said, Barnes does go into great detail when discussing the various thinkers, and you come away from the book having thoroughly examined each of the philosophers in a contextual rather than chronological way. The appendices and indexes are exhaustive, and allow for quick location of either a thinker or a specific topic. An excellent book on the Presocratics.n discussing the various thinkers, and you come away from the book having thoroughly examined each of the philosophers in a contextual rather than chronological way. The appendices and indexes are exhaustive, and allow for quick location of either a thinker or a specific topic. An excellent book on the Presocratics.	2003-02-18
US	52821609	R1ZWH1DZ5B5V1E	0061300675	841100143	Religion within the Limits of Reason Alone (Torchbooks)	Books	5	34	37	N	N	What can be done in the space between your ears!	Let me state up front that I do not think Kant succeeded in what he tried to do in this book. That caveat in place, Kant's book a fine attempt at grounding religious belief in something other than revelation. Now, of course that might ruffle a few feathers on both sides of the belief-fence (as it did in his day, and will continue to do), but that was Kant's goal in this text. However, no understanding of Kant's reasoning in this book (or any other of his works) can be complete without taking into account the Lutheran Pietism in which he was raised. (Regarding the review below, Kant was never Roman Catholic; the Lutheran streak is part of what made Kant who he was, for good or ill.) The subjectivism of his Pietist background had an almost incalculable affect on Kant's philosophy and metaphysics. As a matter of fact, the subjectivist principle of his \\"Copernican revolution\\" in philosophy could arguably be seen as a natural outgrowth of the personalism that his Lutheran Pietist upbringing gave to him. Members of the Pietist sects current in Kant's day believed that religion should be realized, contained, and held deep within the inner self. They also held that religion should be expressed through simplicity and obedience to moral law. Hence, to oversimplify, we get Kant's famous \\"starry heavens above and the moral law within\\" as the two things which fill him \\"with ever increasing wonder.\\"<br /><br />Kant was convinced that the moral basis of religion, specifically the Christian religion, was available to any and all by introspection and meditation. In this work, he sets out to show why that is the case and how it could be achieved. Kant's anti-supernaturalist project of Kant's book is explicit from the beginning, though I should point out that, as in his [[ASIN:0521657296 Critique of Pure Reason]], Kant certainly does not refuse to entertain ideas such as miracles and such. He simply says that they are not he purview of speculative philosophy. This could become a naive fideism, but with Kant it (arguably) never does. What Kant wants to do is plain in his title, and clear in his text: develop the idea of religion strictly within the bounds of reason, alone. For Kant, pure philosophy was the realm of human reason, and within that realm (at least pushing against the antinomies) religion could be found and established. Anything beyond that was simply beyond the ability and thus the interest of philosophy.<br /><br />This is a great translation and as good an introduction to reading Kant as any of his works., but with Kant it (arguably) never does. What Kant wants to do is plain in his title, and clear in his text: develop the idea of religion strictly within the bounds of reason, alone. For Kant, pure philosophy was the realm of human reason, and within that realm (at least pushing against the antinomies) religion could be found and established. Anything beyond that was simply beyond the ability and thus the interest of philosophy.    This is a great translation and as good an introduction to reading Kant as any of his works.	2001-07-17
US	52821609	R2BO8QR1V1CL95	0800628934	964333306	Symbolism in the Fourth Gospel: Meaning, Mystery, Community	Books	4	14	18	N	N	Best of both worlds	Approaches to the symbolism in the biblical texts is a thorny issue for many readers. That is why this book is so wonderful. Koester stands more-or-less in the evangelical camp, so gives an honest historical reading of John. On his reading, there really was a Samaritan woman, there was a wedding in Cana, there was a Lazarus, etc. This is good, of course: to strip away the historical underpinnings (however tenuous, especially in John) of the pericopes is to eviscerate them. On the other hand, a coldly historical approach to John misses the point(s) of the text completely. The most symbolic of the gospels deserves a thorough symbolic reading in its historical setting. That is what Koester gives. \\"Balanced\\" is an overused word, but this book is balanced in its presentation of the Johannine material and the debates surrounding its interpretation.	2001-05-11
US	52821609	R2I3N43L7Q6WLO	0300078528	731074063	Medieval Foundations of the Western Intellectual Tradition (Yale Intellectual History of the West Series)	Books	5	60	63	N	N	Fascinating and well-researched work	Colish's book is a tour-de-force in the Yale Intellectual History of the West. Her thesis, that the foundation of the Western intellectual mindset and tradition really began in earnest in the Middle Ages rathern than Greek antiquity is an interesting one, and one for which I beleive she gives good arguments. The way she suggests that the ideals of Greece were filtered through Rome and Latin Christianity befire they reached &quot;Euorope&quot; as we know it today comes off convincingly. For her, it is a matter of the development of ideas counting for more than their sources; as a historian, she knows that things didn't have to turn out the way that they did. Colish fleshes this out very nicely in the section of the book where she gives an evenhanded and scholarly account of the parallel cultures of the Latin West, Byzantium, and Islam. Her work in this volume shows that she has thought long and hard about these issues, and her conclusions deserve close attention.<br />In addition to her excellent discussion of European Medieval intellectual thought, Colish goes into the vernacular literature and day-to-day culture of the Medieval world and proves again that the &quot;Dark Ages&quot; were anything but in some very important ways. Her treatment of theology in dialogue with Medieval law, science, and literature is nothing less than inspired: as a theologian, I found myself wondering how Colish, a historian, had found the time to track down all the relevant arguements, and how she had been able to explain such byzantine issues as the Nominalist controversy and lay-investiture in so clear a manner. Read this book (not really for beginners) in conjunction with or immediately following Cantor's Civilization in the Middle Ages, and you will have a firm grasp of the entire span of the Medieval era, its ideas, culture, politics, religion, and heritage. A wonderful book.	2001-03-06
US	52821609	R1IV4N2QY64WAN	0809128381	723217293	Pseudo-Dionysius: The Complete Works (Classics of Western Spirituality (Paperback)) (English and Ancient Greek Edition)	Books	5	68	71	N	N	Foundational work for much Christian spirituality	The Classics of Western Spirituality Series (Paulist Press) is an  amazing undertaking, and every volume becomes the standard for primary sources for the religious thinkers covered. This certainly holds true for this complete volume of the works of Pseudo-Dionysius (anonymous writer of the fifth or sixth-century C.E.). Beautiful translations from the Greek of &quot;The Divine Names,&quot; &quot;The Mystical Theology,&quot; &quot;The Celestial Hierarchy,&quot; &quot;The Ecclesiastical Hierarchy,&quot; and all ten extant letters, three essay-introductions by Jaroslav Pelikan, Jean Leclercq, and Karlfried Froehlich, an exhaustive bibliography, and complete biblical and textual indices make this a volume that will last more than one lifetime and serve as the finest authority on Pseudo-Dionysian theology available. No understanding of twelfth and thirteenth-century theology is complete without an acquaintance with Dionysius's work--this includes Aquinas. Covering prayer, religious epistemology, and biblical interpretation, Pseudo-Dionysius always makes for enlightening reading and deeper appreciation of the often overlooked aspects of Christian theology: its mystical or &quot;immediate&quot; side. For the price, this book cannot be beaten. Buy it and read it, you might be suprised at what you'll learn.	2001-03-06
US	52821609	RAU0Q3Y8CBTYH	0060925531	698128879	The Civilization of the Middle Ages: A Completely Revised and Expanded Edition of Medieval History	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The best one-volume to own	In other reviews I have named several introductory books on Medieval philsophy, but Cantor's general-purpose book includes all this and more. A true do-it-yourself book on the Middle Ages, this relatively non-technical volume covers every inch of ground that the novice or intermediate-level student or general reader might need to know.  A must-have for students and anyone who deals regularly with the Medieval era, since for cultural and political context Cantor's book is on the A-list. No notes and not much supplemental information, and this is a put-off, but for raw information (which is mostly all one needs at the intro level) this is the book to read. I also recommend that it be read in conjunciton with or immediately preceding Marcia Colish's book The Medieval Foundations of the Western Intellectual Tradition 400-1400. This volume is more for specialists, but is an excellent compliment to Cantor's work.	2001-03-06
US	52821609	R2M3O9TP6JN5F4	014044114X	30170986	Confessions (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	An original from any point of view	St. Augustine's Confessions is a treasure of Western literature, and, much like the book of Job and the Psalms, really belongs to the heritage of the entire culture and has transcended sectarian importance. That is not to say that these books are not religiously important--of course they are, and the Confessions perhaps even more so to a confessing Christian. Much of what the entire Western church still believes comes straight from the mind and pen of St. Augustine, and to understand his mind one really needs to read the Confessions. Nearly the entire orthodox Catholic tradition of fall-redemption theology sprung full-formed from Augustine's mind, which can be seen in his allegorical interpretaiton of Genesis 1, the section that ends the Confessions and gives them an &quot;unfinished&quot; quality. Augustine was a well-known and revered man when he wrote this book, and rather goes out of his way to depict himself as a youthful deviant to his followers. This is both a heuristic device and what Ausgustine really believes about himself; he is interested in his flock realizing his own fallenness and finitude, and seeing it in themselves as well. A brilliantly modern book for fourth-century fare, it is amenable (at the risk of anachronism)to a multitude of interpretations. Here one can find existential angst, control-dramas, the quest for and the overturning of the ego-self, and an almost pathological study of human guilt (it has been quipped that if the Saint from Hippo had had a good psychotherapist, the Church might have been spared nearly two millennia of sexual dysfunction). Augustine's conversion in the garden reads almost like a kensho experience in Zen. Read the book and draw your own conclusions, but never forget that, as you read, you are sitting at the feet of (and in judgement of) one of the sharpest minds ever produced in Latin Christianity. He writes, &quot;For although I cannot prove to mankind that these my confessions are true, at least I shall be believed by those whose ears are opened to me by love&quot; Book 10.3, and whether or not your ears are open to him in love, they should at least be open. Augustine always has something to say to the careful reader, and no less a careful reader than Derrida lui-même is an inveterate reader and student of Augustine's. Quite a compliment from a reader who certainly does not share Augustine's faith concerns....ed by those whose ears are opened to me by love&quot; Book 10.3, and whether or not your ears are open to him in love, they should at least be open. Augustine always has something to say to the careful reader, and no less a careful reader than Derrida lui-mme is an inveterate reader and student of Augustine's. Quite a compliment from a reader who certainly does not share Augustine's faith concerns....	2001-03-06
US	52821609	R1FVUZ4J0IG2N0	0195012933	705147989	Documents of the Christian Church	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Indispensible	If you are a student of theology, Western history of almost any sort, church-state relations, sociology of religion, philosophy of religion, or are just a mad autodidact, you already have this book. All primary sources, and fascinating reading for any occasion. If it played a role in the formation of Western theology and political-ecclesiological development, it is in this small book.  There is information in this book you don't even know that you are missing, so look at it this way: church histories are necessary and very important, but wouldn't you like to read the same documents the historians are reading, and draw your own conclusions? An essential tool for professors, students, pastors, and educated Westerners of all stripes.	2001-03-05
US	52821609	RQPZOYGEKCCLO	0141000031	846050314	The Sagas of Icelanders: (Penguin Classics Deluxe Edition)	Books	4	113	122	N	N	Riviting, the finest introduction to a timeless literature	The Icelandic sagas bear repeated readings - these texts are a heritage of ancient European culture that belong on the \\"canon lists\\" with Homer and Shakespeare. Their influences and histories are that important, anyone who speaks English should certainly read these stories, they are distantly related to us and are at once familiar and very strange.  This massive volume is the best single-source for the sagas, and the translations are all new and take into account the most recent scholarship on the sagas.  Five stars for the work and the translations, and a sixth star for the best reason to own this book, the reference section, a book in its own right: illlustrations and diagrams, historical charts, glossary (Icelandic-English), up-to-the-minute and large bibliography, maps, family ties and trees, ages of icelandic history, and essays on the social and political structure that is so important to really understading the sagas and the culture that produced them.<br /><br />However, I have to subtract a few of my stars, with the proviso that I do recommend this book as a must-own for anyone interested.  This may raise a few hackles, but I really think that the \\"Tales\\" could have been omitted, and either Njal's saga or Erbyggya Saga added. These are fundamental sagas (esp. the former), but perhaps this is just my own love of Njal that sways me. Naturally, the inclusion of these sagas would mean something had to go, and I think that the sagas can stand without the Tales to augment them.<br /><br />All that said, the book is still a treasure, and I am very glad to see Penguin coming out with such fine volumes.  After all, Njal and Ergyggja are also published in very nice translation by Penguin. If you love Nordic poetry and literature, even if you own editions of these sagas, you should still have this one.<br /><br />It might be useful to end with what IS here, saga-wise:<br /><br />Egil's Saga<br />Vatnsdaela Saga<br />Laxdaela Saga (w/Bolli Bollison's Tale)<br />Hrafnkel's Saga<br />Bandamanna Saga (Saga of the Confederates)<br />Gisli Sursson's Saga<br />Gunnlaug Serpent-tongue's Saga<br />Ref's Saga<br />The Vinland Sagasderates)  Gisli Sursson's Saga  Gunnlaug Serpent-tongue's Saga  Ref's Saga  The Vinland Sagas	2001-03-03
US	52821609	R1P6B3SG9UXZXM	0800617622	343331158	A Short History of the Interpretation of the Bible	Books	5	31	31	N	N	An absolutely excellent book for all levels	Robert Grant (emeritus, U. Chicago) and David Tracy (U. Chicago)  have come together in this small book to give perhaps the finest concise history of biblical interpretation that you can find for the money ... Yes, it leaves out some theologians and interpreters, maybe your favorite ones, but the book is not meant to be exhaustive.  Nevertheless it almost manages even this, since I cannot think of someone you NEED to know about that you won't have studied after having read this little tome.  There is a very nice biblography, a good index (includeing references in the notes as well), though no scriptural index.  This is not a real problem, however, since this is not a book of exegesis per se, but the history of exegetical problems and traditions.<br />The book is divided into two parts, historical and theological.  That may not be an exact divide in a book on biblical interpretations, but it serves.  Grant writes part one, and manages to give a good overview of all (and excellent investigation of others) of the various readings of the text, Old and New. In 150 pages of non-technical language, Grant leads the reader from Jesus and first-century Jewish readings of the Bible, and the development of Christian texts into a &quot;testament,&quot; all the way to modern (20th century) Protestant ways of reading, without leaving out anyone who figures largely or less-largely in the history of interpretation. Quite a feat, but he is successful, at least within the scope that this book sets for itself.  It is not for the specialist, but the specialist can certainly benefit from it as a reference book and quick look-up tool (and who doesn't need that from time to time?)  David Tracy's contribution is part two, a theological and hermeneutical look at biblical interpretation, interpretaiton theory, critical theory, and prospects for the future.  As in Grant's earlier chapters, Tracy gives just enough information to be helpful, but not enough to be daunting.<br />With a top scholar in biblical studies and a top scholar in theological studies coming together in this book, it makes it a volume hard to avoid owning, especially for the student or educated layman.  Here is a suggestion, as a matter of fact: this would be an excellent adult study book for churches--pastors and vestries take note!  If you are in the position to need a history of how the biblical texts have developed and been interpreted (the multifariousness of interpretations might well shock you), this is a great little book to own.  I highly recommend it without reservation.cholar in biblical studies and a top scholar in theological studies coming together in this book, it makes it a volume hard to avoid owning, especially for the student or educated layman.  Here is a suggestion, as a matter of fact: this would be an excellent adult study book for churches--pastors and vestries take note!  If you are in the position to need a history of how the biblical texts have developed and been interpreted (the multifariousness of interpretations might well shock you), this is a great little book to own.  I highly recommend it without reservation.	2001-03-01
US	52821609	R22EZC0H2ZAJP7	0521468434	76417555	Augustine: The City of God against the Pagans (Cambridge Texts in the History of Political Thought)	Books	5	110	114	N	N	Should be the new standard	It is hard to find recent work on De Civitate Dei in English that does not use this newest edition and translation of probably Augustine's most influential work (if not his most readable).  I am convinced that this will be the translation that will be used for the foreseeable future.  An excellent rendering of the Latin original, wonderful introduction and copious notes.  So clear and precise is the translation, and so helpful is the supporting scholarship, that one could conceivably come to this particular text of Augustine's work having no prior knowledge, and leave it with complete fluency.  It is that good.  For the full effect, get the 3 vols of the Loeb Classical Latin-English edition (the MacCracken-Greene translation is still very useful, though not in comparison to newer scholarship such as Dyson's) and work though the text yourself.  I think that Augustine's Latin and Dyson's English match up well next to each other--this is a volume to own if you are contemplating any serious work with Augustine, or if you are just curious about what all the fuss over Augustine is about.  A polemical, brilliant, controversial, and stimulating work, City of God is as good a place as any to introduce yourself to Augustine, and this is an excellent translation to use.	2001-02-21
US	52821609	RDHM2QVB5SFI2	0520061284	313258396	Religious Experience	Books	5	32	35	N	N	A Phenomenology of Religious Experience	Proudfoot's book quickly shot him into the pantheon of very important philosophers of religious experience, most notably Schleiermacher, James, and Otto. As a matter of fact, I think that if you were to teach a course on Western scholarly notions of religious experience, you could do so very well using only these four authors: Schleiermacher's Religion: Speeches to Its Cultured Despisers; James's Varieties of Religious Experience; Otto's The Idea of the Holy; and Proudfoot. That may seem like a lot to assert, but for historical as well as ideological reasons, these four books are largely representative of the discipline for the last several hundred years.<br />I had to read this book twice. Not because of the difficulty of the work: it's not difficult or technical at all. No, I misunderstood Proudfoot's argument early on, and therefore I came away hating the book and wondering why on earth I read it. My first impression was that Proudfoot was giving the old reductionistic viewpoint that all that is going on in any religious experience is projection. And he does say, very explicitly, that previous expectations determine the outcome of religious experiences. But he does not say that that is ALL that is happening; that was my erroneous reading of Proudfoot. Many others have also had that negative reaction to his book, so I was not completely alone in my initial rejection of his work.<br />What he really seems to be saying, and a second reading made this clear as day, is that there is no \\"pure\\" experience of God, no unmediated approach to the Holy, the Numinous, Being, or what have you, in direct contradiction of Schleiermacher. This view is just plain old Kant, of course, but in light of modern and postmodern hermeneutics, it is, of couse, exactly right. It is not that that, for example, the charismatic Pentacostal does not legitimately experience \\"the Divine:\\" it is, however, that she does so within the framework already given to her from her tradition. Within that tradition, however, the experience may well be \\"pure,\\" in terms of the tradition. Two classic examples are Teresa's \\"mystical marriage\\" to God and, on the other end of the spectrum, Dante's Beatific Vision of God as Other. These two examples are experiences of God, both radically different (one very personal, one very impersonal), both mediated through particular cultural Weltbildungen, and both \\"legitimate\\" by anyone's definition. The same holds true across the board, from Sufi dancing to zazen: there is an expected outcome towards which masters or teachers guide students and devotees, and successful \\"experiences\\" take place within these defined areas. This certainly does not lessen the experience at all. Quite the contrary, it may well heighten the experience, since it gives a sense of \\"attainment.\\" To some this will sound like \\"you find what you expect to find\\"; Proudfoot himself likely would say this. But as a phenomenological stance, this is a respectful yet critical accout of human religiosity, and a wonderful book.adition, however, the experience may well be \\"pure,\\" in terms of the tradition. Two classic examples are Teresa's \\"mystical marriage\\" to God and, on the other end of the spectrum, Dante's Beatific Vision of God as Other. These two examples are experiences of God, both radically different (one very personal, one very impersonal), both mediated through particular cultural Weltbildungen, and both \\"legitimate\\" by anyone's definition. The same holds true across the board, from Sufi dancing to zazen: there is an expected outcome towards which masters or teachers guide students and devotees, and successful \\"experiences\\" take place within these defined areas. This certainly does not lessen the experience at all. Quite the contrary, it may well heighten the experience, since it gives a sense of \\"attainment.\\" To some this will sound like \\"you find what you expect to find\\"; Proudfoot himself likely would say this. But as a phenomenological stance, this is a respectful yet critical accout of human religiosity, and a wonderful book.	2001-02-21
US	52821609	RRRKVHLSBSO7E	0915145804	117678251	Philosophy in the Middle Ages: The Christian, Islamic, and Jewish Traditions	Books	5	46	47	N	N	Continues to be an excellent source.	This book was in its fifth edition in 1980 (my copy), and obviously has been reprinted since then.  There are more recent treatments of the subject, no doubt, and a lot of scholarship has  taken place in medieval thought since that time.  Nevertheless, I recommend that you buy this book (find a used copy if you can) because it is still one of the best places to get so many primary sources between the covers of one book.  The introductory essays are very well done, but the value of this tome (761 pages) is the selection and depth of primary texts.  This in no mere medieval cafeteria--the texts here are all selected for their importance to the overall content of each thinker's work.  The selections are generous, too. With this book, you get Augustine, Boethius, Erigena, Anselm (with Gaunilo), Abelard, John of Salisbury, al-Farabi, Avicenna, al-Gazali, Averroes, Sa'adia, Solomon Ibn Gabirol, Maimonides, Bonaventure, Grosseteste, Bacon, Siger of Brabant, Aquinas (Spiritual Creatures, Summa Part I, II [first part], and the text of the 1277 condemnation), Scotus, William of Ockham, Nicholas of Autrecourt, Marsilius of Padua, and John Buridan (on Aristotle).<br /><br />If you are concerned that there is no way you could get good information on so many writers in one book, let me assure you that you can.  For example, you may not read all of Aquinas, but you ought to be familiar with the first part of the Summa.  Similarly, you may not read all of Augustine, but some of the best of his work is here (good sections from The Teacher, Retractions, Confessions, City of God, The Trinity, and On Free Will).  The important additions of Islamic and Jewish philosophy (Christian medieval thought depends upon the Aristotelian work of Muslim thinkers to a great extent) to this work make it a very nice one to have.	2001-02-19
US	52821609	R2WMXR380NKPBT	0684836394	321270291	Science and the Modern World	Books	5	80	83	N	N	75 years down the road....	Naturally, a book written in the midst (or even aftermath) of the  relativity revolution is going to be both insightful and limited.  Whitehead's book is, in this regard, a child of its age.  Yet this is not the entire story, since Whitehead possessed  the gift of being able to contextualize his own thought and thus  leave it open-ended.    The technical aspects of the book are, of course, sparse on facts.  There is evidence that Whitehead (who, in 1925, had been at Harvard for only a year and was now engaged full-time with philosophy, less so with the mathematics of his earlier career) was aware of the sweeping changes in the world brought on by the quantum physics.  He was certainly aware of its potential.  Niels Bohr said that anyone who is not shocked by quantum theory has not understood it; on this definition, Whitehead did indeed understand it, because the new physics never ceased to amaze him.  He grew up, after all, and was edicated as a mathematician, in a very Newtonian world. But it is important to situate the book: the theories that shape what we today know as quantum mechanics were still being debated and worked out in the 20s.  Most of the most stiking information has been theorized since that time, certainly long after Whitehead's death.  Two examples are Bell's work on separated systems (60s) and Wheeler's  discussion of a self-observing universe (1979!).     Whitehead's book is most useful as a book on the philosophy of science, as well as a succinct and accurate appraisal of science in the modern world (modern meaning 17th-19th centuries, historically speaking). He takes a very \\"post\\" modern view of the extent of science, writing in chapter one, \\"if science is not to degenerate into a medly of ad hoc hypotheses, it must become philosophical and must enter upon a thorough criticism of its own foundations.\\" At the same time one can imagine his glee over such recent developments as chaos theory.  Whitehead would disagree with Einstein, and side with Bohr: God does indeed play dice.    If you take your science as religion, i.e. the scientific method is still your Nicene creed, you will dislike this book, and most of the recent work on the philosophy of science.  However, if you are interested in a hermeneutical perspective on science's recent past, and are willing to see science as as much a faith committment as any other world view (a la [[ASIN:0226458083 Kuhn]], for example), you will benfit greatly from this book. If you take Rouse's ([[ASIN:0801497132 1987]], [[ASIN:080143193X 1996]]) and van Huyssteen's ([[ASIN:1563382555 1998]], [[ASIN:0802838685 1999]]) position that even so-called \\"hard\\" science is thoroughly corrigible and foundationalist, you will enjoy this book. Whitehead's ideas are opposed to scientific materialism from the get-go, and he is absolutely against dogmatism on the part of science or philosophy.  To this extent, 75 years down the road this is still a great book, worth the price of the volume simply for the essays \\"Origins of Modern Science,\\" \\"Science and Philosophy,\\" and \\"Religion and Science\\" alone.	2001-02-19
US	52821609	R12ASTWLLYCRS5	0198661320	776788003	The Oxford Companion to Philosophy	Books	4	64	66	N	N	Great for the autodidact in your family	This is a tremendously helpful work. The work is written from the point of view of analytic philosophy, and thus tend to give short shrift to some thinkers in the continental stream. Still, the \\"fathers\\" of continental thought (Kant through Hegel, into Nietzche and Heidegger) are well represented and their philosophical works are amply dicussed and fairly treated.  Overall, the articles are all that one might want from a \\"companion to philosophy\\" (and much of it is actually good reading) I frequently pull the beast (1000+ pages paperback) down from the shelf; that is the best thing I can say about it.  You will not regret owning this book, no matter your philosophical bent. If you are a student, I cannot imagine how you have made it this far without it, one-stop encyclopedia can be great resources. Good job, Oxford Press.	2001-02-19
US	52821609	R26EAD52AAPUNH	0691019568	881271948	A Short History of Medieval Philosophy	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Wonderful as an introduction.	The text is a bit dated, I will be the first to admit, though so is the subject matter!  However, the book is comprehensive and thorough, leaves out nothing of importance, and gives a good and balanced picture of not only the &quot;what&quot; but the &quot;why&quot; of medieval thinking. If you are an old pro at Aquinas et al, this is a good historical overview to what you already know, maybe in a more concise and intelligent format than you are used to seeing in books on medieval philosophy.  If you are a student, and especially if you are not all that familiar with what is going on with medieval thinkers, I can hardly recommend this short history any more highly.<br />I have little to add to the three excellent recommendations I reproduce below:<br />&quot;What is most striking about the entire book is its just perspective and its fine balance between scholarly prudence and philosoohical suggestiveness in the presentation of the ideas and problems distinctive of medieval philosophy. . . . As a sketch of medieval philosophy it qualifies as something of a classic.&quot;--Philosophical Review<br />&quot;The author carefully traces the influence of Greek philosophy and of the three great reigious traditions . . . on the great medieval scholastics.  Professor Weinberg's book is a real contribution toward a sympathetic grasp of a tradition which he tells us must be retained and reexamined incessantly if we are to learn form the past.&quot;--Review of Metaphysics<br />&quot;The style is straightforward and clear; the content is judiciously selected; the interpretations are intelligent, impartial, scholarly.&quot;--Speculum	2001-02-19
US	52821609	R3LDW6EJSG08GH	0679722017	242844793	The Selected Poetry of Rainer Maria Rilke: Bilingual Edition (English and German Edition)	Books	5	214	218	N	N	Ausgezeichnet, &uuml;bermenschliches &Uuml;bersetzung	With this particular volume of Rilke, you get two things: (1) perhaps the finest example of German poetry (the book is bilingual) this side of Schiller, and (2) without a doubt the finest translation of Rilke, or probably any poet, you will ever encounter in English. Hefty praise, but I can say no less about this magnificent book. I often find myself reading the English more than the German, the translations are so elegant. In its review of the volume, the New York Times Book Review said that \\"it is easy to feel that, if Rilke had written in English, he would have written in this English.\\"  I concur. I am no fan of Mitchell's [[ASIN:0061142662 Daodejing translation]], though I know that he says up front that he is interpreting more than translating in that work. But Rilke volume is a triumph. Often, translators of poetry feel that they have to re-write the poem in order to get der Sinn, and Mitchell, himself a minor poet, could have done that easily and given us a nice book (even bad Rilke by a good translator is better than no Rilke at all).  Mitchell did not do that; he very simply gave us Rilke, Rilke's poems, in English.  They say what Rilke said, I don't know how else to say that.  Mitchell wisely does not try to reproduce Rilke's rhyme schemes, though he does seem to match Rilke's alliterations note for note. This is not a flaw in the translations by any means; complex, artful, infuriating German sentence structure being what it is, I cannot imagine successfully duplicating the rhymes and still making a book as beautiful as the one Mitchell has made.  German is a forbidding, precise, and multi-layered language, a daily Sprechstimme that is a far cry from the crude throat noises one often hears from people who wouldn't know German if it bit them (they are probably thinking of French, a terribly gutteral tongue that they likely haven't heard either).  But, thankfully, Mitchell is not translating French (much; there are a few sketches included in French), and anyway everyone knows that Merwin is the past master at that. Baudelaire is about the only poet I can stand to read in French, anyway, maybe Rimbaud ([[ASIN:0060955503 Paul Schmidt's Rimbaud]] is a masterful translation, the best on the market in English, and Rimbaud is difficult in French).<br /><br />To conclude, Mitchell's poems in this volume aren't translations of Rilke's poems, so much as they are Rilke's poems. Let me give one example, the first stanza of the first of the Sonnetts to Orpheus,in German then in English:<br /><br />Da stieg ein Baum. O reine &Uuml;bersteigung! / O Orpheus singt!  O hoher Baum im Ohr! / Und alles schweig.  Doch selbst in der Verschweigung / ging neuer Anfang, Wink und Wandlung vor.<br /><br />Now, the same thing, in English:<br /><br />A tree ascended there.  Oh pure transcendence! /  O Orpheus sings! Oh tall tree in the ear! /  And all things hushed.  Yet even in that silence /  a new beginning, beckoning, change appeared.<br /><br />This is what you want in a translation.way everyone knows that Merwin is the past master at that. Baudelaire is about the only poet I can stand to read in French, anyway, maybe Rimbaud ([[ASIN:0060955503 Paul Schmidt's Rimbaud]] is a masterful translation, the best on the market in English, and Rimbaud is difficult in French).    To conclude, Mitchell's poems in this volume aren't translations of Rilke's poems, so much as they are Rilke's poems. Let me give one example, the first stanza of the first of the Sonnetts to Orpheus,in German then in English:    Da stieg ein Baum. O reine Übersteigung! / O Orpheus singt!  O hoher Baum im Ohr! / Und alles schweig.  Doch selbst in der Verschweigung / ging neuer Anfang, Wink und Wandlung vor.    Now, the same thing, in English:    A tree ascended there.  Oh pure transcendence! /  O Orpheus sings! Oh tall tree in the ear! /  And all things hushed.  Yet even in that silence /  a new beginning, beckoning, change appeared.    This is what you want in a translation.	2001-02-13
US	52821609	RSL0DT7KT17RX	0393310396	772590568	Letters to a Young Poet	Books	5	49	54	N	N	Devotional	A fine transition from German to English (A-, A+ being [[ASIN:0679722017 Mitchell's translation]] of the poems), nevertheless no one should be afraid of buying this particular translation. It is sensitive to what Rilke wanted to say and says it in about as good English as you could get from such magnificent language.	2001-02-13
US	52821609	RYB5NG4KHKT1U	084767827X	401139077	Stubborn Fact and Creative Advance	Books	5	45	45	N	N	Start here.	After a long and enjoyable relationship with all of Whitehead's works, I am well aware of the very real problems of interpreting his thought.  I remain convinced of two things: (1) Whitehead was  the equal to Heidegger and Wittgenstein in every way, and ranks with them in the triumvirate of original and brilliant philsophers of this century, and (2) he is under-read mainly because of the difficulty one encounters in understanding his thought, oddly enough much like Heidegger and Wittgenstein.  Heidegger has long been the patron saint of contemporary continental thought, and analytic thinkers still read and teach Wittgenstein, though they have trouble with some of the mystical elements that keep creeping in and spoiling a good syllogism.  By and large, no one reads Whitehead with any consistency, except theologians (and not all, or even most, of them).  More's the pity, since his thought, like that of Kant or Plato, always brings new things to the discussion each time it is encountered.<br />This little book could do its small part in changing all that, though I doubt it.  I envision philosophers world over reading the book and saying, &quot;Oh, THAT'S what he meant!&quot;  Whitehead studies will take the fore, and we usher in a new age of creative speculation in philososphy.  Until that happens (and I am not holding my breath), read this book so that you'll be ahead of the game.  Because, I assure you, if you are new reader of Whitehead or an old hand, you too will have at least one &quot;So THAT'S what he meant&quot; moment in the course of reading this book.<br />If you are a student looking for textbooks, buy this one if you are reading Whitehead, and read this book before (long before, actually) you try to plow into Process and Reality.  Hosinski will not steer you wrong, and, unless your prof read this book too, you might actually understand better than she does.  You have probably come across Sherburne's Key to Process and Reality.  That is the standard intro, but I actually like Hosinski's better.  He explains the concepts, the &quot;why,&quot; of Whitehead, and once you have that, you don't need a &quot;key.&quot;  Once you have figured out Whitehead's language, like that of Hegel or Heidegger or Derrida, reading him is a joy and actually not that difficult.  Like all good philosophy, it is poetry; it has its own language, and you have to know how to read it.<br />If you are a professor teaching Whitehead and have not read this book, shame on you.  If you are a professor not teaching Whitehead because you think you know what Whitehead was all about  (&quot;oh, he was the last metaphysician, a ultra-modernist system builder like Hegel without Hegel's staying power), maybe you should read it again.  Then read any of the play-ful postmodern or even deconstructionist philosophers, and see if Whitehead's event-ontology (like Heidegger's, its closest relative) and his &quot;fallacy of misplaced concrescence&quot; seem familiar.  If it does, you have understood well.  As this book makes very clear, in formulating his thoughts Whitehead emphasized play, not rule; action not stasis; fallability not airtight systems; creativity not tradition (except where that tradition serves as a lure for creative transformation); objective uncertainties (to use Kierkegaard) not wretched complacency (to use Nietzsche); and above all revisability not dogmatism.  Speculative philsophy is just that--imaginative construction.  It must always pass the test of adequacy.  After all, since Heidegger announced the death of metaphysics and Derrida buried it, speculation for the sake of speculation is useless.  Whitehead's philosophy--and Hosinski's wonderful book, which I cannot recommend more highly--is useful.  Read it, then use it.but I actually like Hosinski's better.  He explains the concepts, the &quot;why,&quot; of Whitehead, and once you have that, you don't need a &quot;key.&quot;  Once you have figured out Whitehead's language, like that of Hegel or Heidegger or Derrida, reading him is a joy and actually not that difficult.  Like all good philosophy, it is poetry; it has its own language, and you have to know how to read it.<br />If you are a professor teaching Whitehead and have not read this book, shame on you.  If you are a professor not teaching Whitehead because you think you know what Whitehead was all about  (&quot;oh, he was the last metaphysician, a ultra-modernist system builder like Hegel without Hegel's staying power), maybe you should read it again.  Then read any of the play-ful postmodern or even deconstructionist philosophers, and see if Whitehead's event-ontology (like Heidegger's, its closest relative) and his &quot;fallacy of misplaced concrescence&quot; seem familiar.  If it does, you have understood well.  As this book makes very clear, in formulating his thoughts Whitehead emphasized play, not rule; action not stasis; fallability not airtight systems; creativity not tradition (except where that tradition serves as a lure for creative transformation); objective uncertainties (to use Kierkegaard) not wretched complacency (to use Nietzsche); and above all revisability not dogmatism.  Speculative philsophy is just that--imaginative construction.  It must always pass the test of adequacy.  After all, since Heidegger announced the death of metaphysics and Derrida buried it, speculation for the sake of speculation is useless.  Whitehead's philosophy--and Hosinski's wonderful book, which I cannot recommend more highly--is useful.  Read it, then use it.	2001-02-11
US	52821609	RHMSNKZFG13ES	0823218767	66201082	Suspicion and Faith: The Religious Uses of Modern Atheism	Books	5	50	52	N	N	A good prophetic witness via good old fashioned philosophy	Back in 1992 I attended a lecture entitled \\"Nietzsche as Christian Philosopher.\\" I was curious, and so went and heard a brilliant talk about the deep understanding Nietzsche had of the  Christianity of his day, and why he found it necessary to reject it. The lecturer did not try to make Nietzsche into a Christian, of course, for Nietzsche was not one.  Still, he pointed out that Nietzsche's critique grew out of his view, in part, of Christianity as a religion with a \\"slave mentality,\\" one utterly lacking in a will-to-power. Apparently, Nietzsche had been reading Paul.<br /><br />Westphal has also been reading Paul, and Augustine, and Luther, and Kierkegaard, in addition to the three founders of the \\"school of suspicion\\" as Ricoeur calls them: Frued, Marx, and Nietzsche.  Westphal has brought back from his travels with these men a powerful and critical message for the church today; and when criticized, the church should pay close attention to the criticism.  All three of these philosophers raise valid and very important concerns about not only the praxis of Christianity, but Christianity qua Christianity, as belief system and structure.<br /><br />Nietzsche is indeed a Christian philosopher insofar as he shows us the will-to-power implicit in belief.  He is correct that  the Christ-idea of Christianity is antithetical to a will-to-power or a triumphalistic worldview, and that it would never and could never produce der &Uuml;bermensch (that, in part, is why he hated it so). When Christianity weds itself to power, any power at all, it needs to read Nietzsche.  It also needs to read Freud, badly, if it hopes to confront its wish-fulfillments in this-worldly \\"Kingdom of God\\"-speech, and its death-wishes in indulging apocalyptic orgies (note to Tim LaHaye: read more Freud). Christianity should also read Freud if it wants to really get an insight into Paul's \\"what I want to do, I do not, and what I do not want to do, I do,\\" as well as a lot of Luther. Finally, a good re-reading of Marx (Marx has never really been given a good try, not since Lenin got him first and ruined him) might just show us why, after all, we not only cannot simply render unto Caesar, but why we constantly confuse Caesar and God. Great book by an important thinker.has never really been given a good try, not since Lenin got him first and ruined him) might just show us why, after all, we not only cannot simply render unto Caesar, but why we constantly confuse Caesar and God. Great book by an important thinker.	2001-02-11
US	52821609	R2XLLF0EMW0U73	0691023158	260353960	Justice and the Politics of Difference	Books	4	45	47	N	N	This is the conversation we need to have	Young's clasic book is most often read in seminars on social criticism and/or feminist studies.  This is as it should be, for Young's work brilliantly illuminates the direction debates about justice and oppressed groups must go.  However, I read the book from the point of view of the work of Warnke, Habermas, and Gadamer, more along the lines of hermeneutics and ideology critique.  What I found was an absolutely riviting account of how we define the groups to which we belong, how we believe those groups interact with each other, and the way that the competing demands of these groups are met and dealt with.  As Warnke does, Young realigns the concept of justice along a communitarian axis rather than an individualistic axis, proposing that we look at justice in terms of communitites than individuals.  Only in this way will the individuals within those communities be able to come to the table with their respective concerns.  Like Habermas, she investigates the rhetoric of power that underlies old ways of discussing justice in terms of distribution, denying that justice is a finite commodity that must be rationed.  And like Gadamer, Young stresses the need for an understanding of presuppositions in developing theories of history and interpretation.  After all, how we define &quot;our&quot; group in great part determines how we define &quot;others&quot;.<br />I found her turn from a rural to an urban paradigm of community to be nothing short of revolutionary.  She develops an idea of community-oriented justice that revolves not around the model of self-suffient hamlets, but around the interlocking and often messy communities that exist side-by-side (though often in isolation from each other) in cities.  Showing that the idea of self-sufficiency is unworkable in the curent context, Young holds out hope that these interconnected yet distinct communities will show us the way to not only survive but flourish in the postmodern world.  Justice does not compete with difference; it grows out of it.<br />An excellent study, it should be read by any and all, though the jargon cannot help but be technical at times.  I agree with the previous reviewer, a good second-year book for students of social work, religion, philosophy, education, or politics, and a great any-time book for anyone concerned with issues of justice in the world today.it grows out of it.  <br />An excellent study, it should be read by any and all, though the jargon cannot help but be technical at times.   I agree with the previous reviewer, a good second-year book for students of social work, religion, philosophy, education, or politics, and a great any-time book for anyone concerned with issues of justice in the world today.	2000-12-25
US	52821609	R25OQKA6VF29PJ	0140124454	708809158	The Penguin Book of Vampire Stories	Books	5	23	23	N	N	The best there is.	Alan Ryan has assembled here both a history of vampire short fiction and a compelling collection of never-lose-their-edge stories.  The volume contains the very first vampire story to appear in English, fragments of Byron's vampire stories, a chapter Stoker never included in Dracula, excerpts from the \\"penny-dreadfuls\\" popular at the turn of the century, and several of the most important works for the genre, including the full text of the story Carmilla. Ryan introduces each story with a bit of background information and the author's place in the pantheon, which is helpful because many of these authors are otherwise unknown or known only within genre literature. This is the single best anthology available for a real introduction to vampire literature.	2000-12-25
US	52821609	RFYXK8J319T50	0262581027	512056598	The Philosophical Discourse of Modernity: Twelve Lectures (Studies in Contemporary German Social Thought)	Books	4	44	45	N	N	Leaves no stone unturned	Though I am almost always disturbed by Habermas's borderline naivety concerning what he calls the &quot;unfinished project of modernity,&quot; in this volume he rises to the heights I always thought him capable.  In 400+ pages (a big book, but always just short enough on the essays to be concise and clear), Habermas shows his command of almost all post-Kantian philosophy.  His criticisms are almost always on-target, and even though I do not follow his conclusions (has he read and dealt seriously with ALL of Heidegger?  what does he do with metaphysics that are expressly anti-metaphysical, such as those of Bergson, Whitehead, and James?), I am always amazed at his insights and explanations.  Interestingly enough, much of what Habermas is explicating (critique of foundations) has always been found in theoretical form in Gadamer, and in cosmological form in Whitehead.  Habermas always seems to hold out hope that some sort of Rawlsian &quot;original position&quot; will be found (can Habermas really think that there could ever be such a thing as an &quot;ideal speech situation,&quot; devoid of what Gadamer calls the Wirkungsgeschichte, or history which affects it?).  For my part, I cannot accept this.  Insofar as modernity wanted to find such a situation, it was guilty of what Whitehead called &quot;misplaced concrescence.&quot;  Habermas makes himself succeptible to the same criticisms.  But even though I all too often find Habermas too optimistic in regards the quest of modernity, I am never disappointed when he writes about that quest.  I believe this is one of Habermas's finest books, worth the time and effort required to read it.	2000-12-25
US	52821609	RX00CH30AYDJ6	0664247431	180070456	Process Theology: An Introductory Exposition	Books	3	51	55	N	N	Still a good book after 25 years	Cobb and Griffin wrote this book in the mid-70s to fill a growing need in American theological thought, namely, a clear exposition of the trend known as \\"process theology.\\"  Based on the work of Whitehead and Hartshorne, process thought takes seriously the ideas many have come to take for granted today, such as the interconnected nature of reality, the subjectivity of science, and a more holistic and biblical idea of a God that responds and reacts to creation with creativity.  Process theology developed these themes, with varying degrees of success.  It is still trying to develop these themes, three decades after this book.<br /><br />It must be said that Cobb and Griffin both were indebted more to Hartshorne's development of Whitehead's philosophy than a more strictly Whiteheadian point of view.  Because of this, the idea of God as a single \\"actual entity\\" gets turned into the idea that  God is a \\"serially ordered sequence of occasions,\\" not Whitehead's view at all, and only remotely monotheistic (or even di-theistic or panentheistic).  The best chapter in the volume is the one on Christology.  The worst is the one on eschatology.  There are few things in theology more helpful than a process christology; there are few things less helpful than a process eschatology, at least as Cobb and Griffin outline it.  See Ted Peter's [[ASIN:0800625420 God-the World's Future]] for an interesting use of process thought in the area of eschatology. All in all, a benchmark text in the field of process theology, and even where it is dated, it still speaks. [[ASIN:0824509706 God Christ Church]] is another good example of a popular introduction to process theology.	2000-12-25
US	52821609	R1VDQ8UCDZA33A	0029345707	177818139	Process and Reality (Gifford Lectures Delivered in the University of Edinburgh During the Session 1927-28)	Books	5	286	299	N	N	The Brilliance of Hard Work and Imagination	Early in this century American philosophy made a 'linguistic' turn that determined the direction it would take all the way to the present day.  In the spirit of the times, language made its way to the forefront of philosophy, the end result being (among other things) Positivism and a scientistic approach to the Geisteswissenschaften.  It is a turn many of us, looking back, wish it had never made.  Because of this turn, certain philosophers and ways of doing philosophy all but stopped being considered.  Among these philosophers were Dewey and James.  These thinkers have in recent decades been resurrected by contemporary neopragmatists, most notably Richard Rorty, who look back at the arid desert of mid-twentieth century philosophy and wonder how far we have come after all.  To quote Rorty (who is certainly no Whiteheadian), American philosophical thought 'began taking its cue from Frege rather than Locke.'  Broadly considered, this meant that language rather than experience, mind rather than body, was taken to be the most serious matter for philosophy.<br />Whitehead stayed with Locke.  Whitehead wanted to critique most Modern philosophy with what he termed the 'philosophy of organism;' that is, Whitehead insisted that experience or  'feeling' rather than disembodied thinking was the hallmark of human existence, and that all experience was subjective.  Now, this does not sound like Locke.  Anyone writing this side of modernity knows that Locke was the quintessential modern philosopher, with all the baggage that entails.  But when Whitehead wrote in the preface to Process and Reality that `the writer who most fully anticipated the main positions of the philosophy of organism is John Locke,' he was stressing the fact that Locke discarded metaphysics, seeking rather to look at what was actually happening, as far as he could tell.<br />In many ways, and though they wrote at the same time but in complete isolation from each other's thought, Whitehead and Heidegger were searching for the same thing, the thing both philosophers thought that Plato and Aristotle had known, but that had been forgotten in the intervening centuries: what it actually meant to experience something, or, as Cooper puts it, how `to make intelligible our immediate experience so that we can discover how it is possible to have any experience of the actual world.'  Rather than reading Whitehead as an elaborate and old-school metaphysician, one ought to read him as a phenomenological empiricist, if such a beast exists, and thus find an answer to the people who dismiss Whitehead as `behind the times,' people who simply don't bother to actually read Whitehead.<br />It is true that thinkers still committed to a reductionist/linguistic approach to philosophy will not see Whitehead's importance as a critic of closed systems (Whitehead's is expressly open and revisable, one reason it has endured as long as it has without being widely read in philosophy departments).  It is also true that American philosophy left Whitehead behind.  However, the blind alleys linguistic analysis and positivism lead us into should cause us to wonder if we were led in the right directions, or if we should have left in the first place.  Leaving something behind certainly does not necessarily mean progressing beyond it.  Whitehead's goal was expressly NOT the goal of philosophy in America after his time, though Whitehead's goal had been an important part of James's `Radical Empiricism,' ironically.  Whitehead looked back to James and Dewey, and Bergson on the continent, hoping `to rescue their type of thought from the charge of anti-intellectualism, which rightly or wrongly has been associated with it.'  Present-day neopragmatism, noting how vapid and unsatisfying most rationalist and linguistic philosophy has become in American thought, also looks back to Dewey and James, but to the pragmatism rather than to the empiricism of these two masters.  It has become axiomatic that the only way to readJames and Dewey is as pragmatists, after all.<br />However, the axiom is not true.  A `rediscovery' of Whitehead by contemporary American philosophy might lead to another and equally valid reading of James and Dewey.  James, Dewey, and Whitehead were thinkers of the same ilk.  If you like any two, you should at least consider reading the third.  Similarly, the relations between Heidegger and Whitehead have only recently been resurfacing, and deserve closer scrutiny.  Analytic philosophy never took seriously the questions raised by Heidegger because they weren't precise enough for logical analysis.  When a grandfather of the analytic movement, Wittgenstein, began distancing himself from his earlier work, his own disciples balked because, they said, he seemed to be retreating into metaphysics!  It is much more likely, however, that Wittgenstein realized that life cannot be reduced to propositions and truth tables.  This was also Whitehead's view.  Whitehead was also not precise enough for the analytic philosophers (I always wonder who is).  Whether or not the fact that he did not measure up to their standards (and still does not) should be seen as an indictment or a complement remains to be seen.<br />Whitehead is an immensely difficult writer. Hosinski's Stubborn Fact and Creative Advance (1993) is a brilliant introductory work, and I highly recommend it, especially if you have to read Whitehead for a class  Sherburne's Key is also very helpful, though you get a lot of Sherburne, too.  At issue is usually Whitehead's neologisms.  To draw another analogy between Heidegger and Whitehead, however, both men were notorious for creating new words because what they wanted to explain was both so uncanny and yet so obvious that the old words didn't work.  Don't let the language scare you away.  Whitehead rewards hard work, and you will likely never forget what you learn from him.  The ideas that we are beginning to take much more seriously these days about holistic thinking, interconnectedness, interdisciplinarity, non-dualism, commensurability between science and religion, and creativity were all covered by him seventy years ago.  Don't let your professors tell you that Whitehead is an outmoded metaphysician.  His `philosophy of organism' is as inherently open-ended, properly understood, as anything passing today as postmodernism.  Read Whitehead.ad James and Dewey is as pragmatists, after all.<br />However, the axiom is not true.  A `rediscovery' of Whitehead by contemporary American philosophy might lead to another and equally valid reading of James and Dewey.  James, Dewey, and Whitehead were thinkers of the same ilk.  If you like any two, you should at least consider reading the third.  Similarly, the relations between Heidegger and Whitehead have only recently been resurfacing, and deserve closer scrutiny.  Analytic philosophy never took seriously the questions raised by Heidegger because they weren't precise enough for logical analysis.  When a grandfather of the analytic movement, Wittgenstein, began distancing himself from his earlier work, his own disciples balked because, they said, he seemed to be retreating into metaphysics!  It is much more likely, however, that Wittgenstein realized that life cannot be reduced to propositions and truth tables.  This was also Whitehead's view.  Whitehead was also not precise enough for the analytic philosophers (I always wonder who is).  Whether or not the fact that he did not measure up to their standards (and still does not) should be seen as an indictment or a complement remains to be seen.<br />Whitehead is an immensely difficult writer. Hosinski's Stubborn Fact and Creative Advance (1993) is a brilliant introductory work, and I highly recommend it, especially if you have to read Whitehead for a class  Sherburne's Key is also very helpful, though you get a lot of Sherburne, too.  At issue is usually Whitehead's neologisms.  To draw another analogy between Heidegger and Whitehead, however, both men were notorious for creating new words because what they wanted to explain was both so uncanny and yet so obvious that the old words didn't work.  Don't let the language scare you away.  Whitehead rewards hard work, and you will likely never forget what you learn from him.  The ideas that we are beginning to take much more seriously these days about holistic thinking, interconnectedness, interdisciplinarity, non-dualism, commensurability between science and religion, and creativity were all covered by him seventy years ago.  Don't let your professors tell you that Whitehead is an outmoded metaphysician.  His `philosophy of organism' is as inherently open-ended, properly understood, as anything passing today as postmodernism.  Read Whitehead.	2000-12-18
US	52821609	R15G25IOMZJZQL	0226469409	627065254	The Iliad of Homer	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Most pleasurable translation of the Greek available	The five stars are for the princely Lattimore translation, of course.  No  one alive is able to review the Iliad; the word \\"classic\\" is  trite and hollow when applied to Homer's work, it is beyond such terms,  ever able to be reinvented and reinterpreted for every passing generation,  ideology, style, or even individual reader. The marvel of this translation  is the way that it has stood up over the years, still as much poetry in  English as the Iliad is in Greek.  Amazing.  The only translation of the  Iliad to own and read for pleasure.  Homer's prose leaps off the page, and  seems ever new in its noble crispness and bloodthirsty persistance.  Lattimore should be beatified for this text.	2000-06-06
US	52821609	R3BE4MS5FJU90N	0486242641	144759560	The Discovery of the Mind	Books	4	43	49	N	N	Dated but good general reading on the influence of Greek thought	To paraphrase an observation Whitehead made over and over, something wonderful happened between the 8th and 5th century BCE in Greece.  Why the circumstances came together in such a way as to produce what we glibly know  as \\"classical Greece\\" no one may adequately explain, but Snell's  book makes the quest for understanding pleasant reading and interesting (if  dated, in places) intellectual fare.<br /><br />This side of modernity, it is easy  to pan this book (written in the war years early in the 20th century) as  antiquated modern humanism, and indeed it does tend to go on and on about  the \\"individual\\" (often in isolation from the community) and the  genius of the Greek mind, perhaps ignoring that there were other cultures  before and after 5th century Greece.  But precisely these throwbacks are  the book's greatest strengths, when the context of its writng is taken into  consideration.  In pre- and wartime-Germany, an unfortunate interpretation  of Hegel's dialectical phenomenology allowed an entire intellectual culture  a collective amnesia about the worth and power of the individual, in favor  of the State as fulfillment of the \\"outworking of Spirit.\\"  For  Hegel, this State was Prussia; post-Weimar Germany, however, interpreted it  differently.  But Snell does not use his book as an anachronistic  justification for German superiority as heir to the best of classical  Europe, as so many authors of his time certainly did.  Rather, he points  out that the \\"discovery\\" of the individual mind, acting in  concert with others and pointed towards \\"the good\\" as  benevolently seen by Socrates, was the greatest achievement of classical  Greece bequeathed not only to Europe but to all the world.  That Snell  could bring out this aspect of Greek thought, and emphasize it, speaks well  of him and the book.<br /><br />The small volume is great reading for \\"cultural  literacy,\\" since to breathe in the West (now, almost everywhere,  culturally) is to breathe air exhaled by Greek writers long ago.  There are  serious problems with this, no doubt.  But coming to terms with Western  canon means coming to terms with Greek literature and philosophy.  This  book helps one do just that.ago.  There are  serious problems with this, no doubt.  But coming to terms with Western  canon means coming to terms with Greek literature and philosophy.  This  book helps one do just that.	2000-05-19
