US	52821450	R2FHC817FRH2NP	0252026136	256120273	Stupidity	Books	1	97	159	N	N	Pretentious to the point of being, well... stupid	I am sorry, but there is something about a book about titled &quot;Stupidity&quot; which contains page after page of sentences like:<br />&quot;From the culture that has been inscribed by Marx and Nietzsche as being inextricably involved with stupidity - German &quot;culture&quot; has brought us Simplicius Simplicissimus, the Taugenichts, Eulenspiegel, the schlemiel, and other literary cognates of historical dumbing - we also have, owing to Robert Musil, a number of intense reflections on what constitutes stupidity, its figural status and serial developments as something of a concept.&quot;<br />I kept reading waiting for the other shoe to drop.  For the self-irony to be acknowledged.  For the book to become interesting and readable; humorous.  It never happened, and I came to the horrible realization that this was, in fact, a dead serious, completely impenetrable, unreadable book on the subject of stupidity.  As such, I can only deem it stupid.<br />Not only that, but it is full of jargon and obscure jargon and unexplained literary references, an example of academia at its most loathsome and most removed from the real world.<br />It reminds me of the words of a much better commentator on foolishness, John Ralston Saul (whose books I all recommend most highly), regarding the degredation of language by philosophers and other specialists.<br />&quot;The example of philosophy actually verges on comedy.  Socrates, Descartes, Bacon, Locke and Voltaire did not write in a specialized dialect.  They wrote in basic Greek, French and English and they wrote for the general reader of the day.  Their language is clear, eloquent and often both moving and amusing. The contemporary philosopher does not write in the basic language of our day. He is not acceptable to the public. . . .  This means that almost anyone with a precent pre-university level education can still pick up Bacon or Descartes, Voltaire or Locke and read them with both ease and pleasure.  Yet even a university graduate is hard pressed to make his way through interpretations of these same thinkers by leading contemporary intellectuals...&quot;<br />Somewhere in the process of reading about and buying this book I saw Avital Ronell described as something along the lines of a leading contemporary intellectual.  This book certainly establishes that in my mind...duate is hard pressed to make his way through interpretations of these same thinkers by leading contemporary intellectuals...&quot;<br />Somewhere in the process of reading about and buying this book I saw Avital Ronell described as something along the lines of a leading contemporary intellectual.  This book certainly establishes that in my mind...	2003-01-04
US	52821450	RYH2AYTIJPSAF	1588203948	932394589	The Official Idiot's Handbook: How to Harness the Stupidity Inside You in Order to Achieve Nothing at All	Books	1	0	3	N	N	Not at all funny	Not really much else to say about a humor book...	2002-07-17
US	52821450	R2FVCF82GJEV4X	0674510534	151075620	Language Learnability and Language Development, 2nd Edition	Books	1	36	59	N	N	Unreadable	Well, maybe it is like wise mana from heaven to other linguists.  But I am a parent in a trilingual household who was looking for some insights into how my 3 year old's language development was going on.  I will now pull two phrases out of the book COMPLETELY AT RANDOM to show why I gave up:<br />&quot;Braine concludes that in every instance in which a child frequently utters both possible orders of a pair of categories, either (a) both orders are found in the adult language, and the child has learned the two orders separately (evidence for this is the fact that one order typically predominates at first and then is supplemented by the alternative order; or (b) there is independent evidence that the utterances reflect a pregrammatical &quot;groping pattern&quot; in which the child wants to communicate a semantic relation, lacks the grammatical means to do so, and strings words together randomly in the hope of being understood.&quot;  <br />That one is not so bad, actually.  How about, <br />&quot;When a paradigm is split in response to a violation of the Unique Entry principle for a given cell, the child in effect &quot;expects&quot; to find alternative entries for each of his or her other existing affixes that do not already have alternatives with strong lexical entries&quot;.<br />Having three post graduate degrees and learned to speak a second language fluently as an adult, so I actually know something about the subject of language acquisition and am not afraid of dense prose.  But this book defeated me after a few pages.<br />It is in my view supremely ironic that, given their field of study, linguistic scholars seem to be abominably poor at communication.	2002-04-17
US	52821450	R1OJKW5SKIN80T	0312217943	328345043	Eating the Flowers of Paradise: One Man's Journey Through Ethiopia and Yemen	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Not bad	As travel writing goes, this was an okay book.  Nothing memorable, but he did go to some interesting places and is a decent enough writer.  That said, he also seems to be a bit of a twit, which became annoying at some points.  It is actually amazing that he survived the journey, doing things like setting off to walk across the desert in Yemen from point A to point B, carrying a single bottle of mineral water which he then drops on the rocks.	2001-08-14
US	52821450	R3HLYOYE4E9VTX	0684856212	21714705	Burn Rate: How I Survived the Gold Rush Years on the Internet	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Couldn't put it down	This is a great book.  The author has a great view of the industry and, more importantly, a well-founded self view.<br />Though written in 1998 (i.e., AGES ago in the Internet industry), a lot of the observations he makes are still relevant today, particularly in the post-bubble world.  One of the observations he makes is that &quot;a few years from now when people hear the phrase `dot com` they will laugh&quot;, which is uncomfortably close to where we actually are.<br />His discussion of where Time Warner and AOL were and wanted to b in the early days of the Internet boom are also interesting, given how things have ended up with the two companies.<br />Finally, the author's epiphany towards the end about the fundamental flaw in his own net business was for me very profound, but I won't spoil that for other readers.	2001-08-14
US	52821450	R33QW3RSB55G6I	0767903269	863762746	The Informant: A True Story	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Truth IS stranger than fiction	My God this was a great book.  I could not put it down.  The plot turns and characters made it read like a Scott Turow thriller, but it was all true.  It is scary both how callous the leaders of one of the world's leading corporations (and the source of a huge amount of our daily food) are capable of acting, as well as how stupid people in positions of power are capable of being.  Scary.  Not surprising, though.	2001-08-13
US	52821450	R34D5X3TFT87RG	0739100645	20206932	How Israel Was Won: A Concise History of the Arab-Israeli Conflict	Books	2	43	56	N	N	Very disappointing attempt at a balanced view	I picked up this book hoping to learn more about a subject of which I have very little understanding, but about which we all hear about on a daily basis on the news.  I like to think that I came to the topic with very little bias, other than the semi-conscious bias that most westerners probably in viewing Israel as a bastion of western culture surrounded by arab muslim cultures.<br />I should say that I am glad I read this book.  It gave a good background to the inception of Israel and the interworking of the mid 20th century colonial powers in the region.  It also made it clear that Israel has frequently been the powerful aggressor in many instances, rather than a hopelessly outnumbered, embattled outpost.  The Palestinians clearly have many legitimate grievances, and whatever anyone says about who is right and wrong in these things none of it can change the following historical fact: that Palestine/Israel started out as a small area in which Arabs were in a minority, Israel now occupies a much larger territory, has an overwhelmingly Jewish population, and a very large number of the Arabs who used to live there do not any more.<br />Other than giving me the above insights, the book was both disappointing and annoying.  First, it is very poor history, and the fact that the author is a PSYCHOLOGIST, and that the book was &quot;the product of research done in the context of a professional writing group that INCLUDED three history professors&quot; should be a red flag to anyone looking for a proper historical analysis.  I don't know how anyone can say it was well researched; based on the notes a huge proportion of the research was done based on three or four other books on the subject.  For example in the Chapter on the Suez conflict, of 56 source notes, 38 go back to two books (Spiegel's, The Other Arab-Israeli Conflict, and Sachar's, A History of Israel).  Virtually no primary source materials are used, and the book is full of judgmental quotes or quotations regarding the views of various statesmen, but they are really just passages from other history books, rather than statements attributable directly to players in the events.  All very disappointing.<br />The annoying part is that as your read the book, the veneer of balance drops away, and it gradually becomes an &quot;Israel bad, Palestinians/Arabs good&quot; polemic disguised as history.  I first clued into this when the author made special note of the fact that Israel's 1950 Law of Return providing worldwide Jewry with the right of abode in Israel Violates the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial discrimination.  Taking into account that the convention was adopted 19 years later in 1969, and that no comparatives are given for any other country's compliance with the same convention, it is simply an idiotic thing to point out.  <br />As the book progresses (or perhaps I just became more sensitive), it becomes more and more obvious Begin is described as a &quot;terrorist&quot; whereas Arafat is the head of a &quot;guerrilla organization&quot;.  The public statements made by Arabs are all taken at face value whereas those made by Israeli leaders are all exposed as lies.  Syria has 35,000 troops in Lebanon, but was seeking a policy of trying to &quot;preserve a military balance and political stability&quot; in the country, whereas the Israelis were raping and pillaging for their own benefit.  Lyndon Johnosn is &quot;hair trigger&quot;.  One Israeli leader is a &quot;loose cannon&quot;.  Etc. etc.<br />This is not to refute all of these views or the many terrible acts and policies attributed to the Israelis, only to say that the book's validity as a decent work of history is fatally compromised by such blatant one-sidedness.<br />In the end, while I am glad to have read the book, I would not recommend it.	2001-07-03
US	52821450	R2UM1T2WFKXXOS	0749431431	955194444	Dirty Dealing: The Untold Truth About Global Money Laundering	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Good Overview	I found this to be a good overview with some interesting annecdotes and useful tips for spotting the signes of questionable financial behavior.  The tone became repetetive after awhile though, with paragraph after paragraph of &quot;for example the Russian Mafia is doing this&quot; or &quot;X million dollars was laundered through Antigua in 1999&quot; type factoids.  I found it very interesting reading but the interesting and useful substance could probably have been covered in 40-50 pages	2001-06-21
US	52821450	R224EPUP1BGF4P	1567510620	431506745	The Splendid Blond Beast: Money, Law and Genocide in the Twentieth Century	Books	2	30	49	N	N	Very Disappointing	A small part of my disappointment springs from the fact that the book's subtitle &quot;Money, Law and Genocide in the Twentieth Century&quot;, promises far more than the book delivers.  The book covers the Nazi genocide against the Jews, with some background information on the Turkish genocide against the Armenians.  So there is no coverage of Cambodia, Tibet, former Yugoslavia or other less well known genocides.  Of course, to cover Cambodia, for example, would have ruined the book's title and central theme of western intellectual self-flagellation over everything bad that happens in the world.<br />But the bigger problem with the book is summed up by the review squib on the back cover:  &quot;A savage and eloquent attack on international law and its failure to stop mass murder.&quot;  That it is, but if you think about it for a minute, law routinely fails to prevent murder, rape and other evil conduct on the part of people who choose not to obey it.  Once you get past that realization all that is left in the book is a long exposition of &quot;look at the terrible thing that happened&quot;.  Which is not to say the genocide wasn't terrible, only that the book isn't anything new or ground breaking.<br />The &quot;revelation&quot; that bankers and lawyers did business with the Nazis should be no more shocking than the fact that people cut their hair, babysat their children and filled their cavities, but for some reason business people are held to a higher standard.  The fact that Nazi companies used concentration camp slave labor is of course horrific, but again, the revelation that the systematic murder of 6 million people was NOT perpetrated secretly by a few &quot;bad&quot; Nazis is hardly a revelation at all.<br />The author clearly knows very little about international law - much of the international legal principles he seems to imply &quot;failed&quot; in the Nazi genocide, were in fact established at the Nuremburg and Tokyo trials in response to it.  He has a big problem with the accepted legal norm at the time that &quot;a nation state can do what it likes to its own people&quot;, but that doesn't change the fact that that it was an accepted norm at the time.<br />So much of the book's analysis is steeped in this sort of hindsight it is annoying.  Furthermore, so wrapped up does he get in the minutiae of the politicking that takes place among US and British diplomats during WWII regarding how to treat suspected war criminals, that he seems to forget there is a war on.  At one point he notes that during one period of infighting within the US state department &quot;so many Jews were murdered&quot;.  As if the doings of a bunch of diplomats and lawyers could have changed any of that in the middle of a world war.  Similarly, he notes that in May of 1944 the Allies knew of the German round up of Hungarian Jews for the death camps yet failed to do anything about it.  Again, what the allies could have done to help the citizens of an Axis country thousands of miles away in the month before D-day is never suggested.  Failure to do &quot;something&quot; is enough of a crime.  And, in fact the author equates words with conduct - in one place he equates the euphemistic characteristics used by US statements describing german business interests in the Holocaust with Stalin's statements regarding the liquidation of his own people.<br />And finally, the author dismisses many concerns of US diplomats out of hand without serious analysis.  For example one of the things which kept the Western allies from announcing a hard line on punishing Nazi war crimes DURING the war, was the fact that the Nazi government widely held the Allied bombing campaign against its population centers as a war crime and could have held downed air crew to the same strict standard.  But this doesn't seem to count for anything with Mr. Simpson if it resulted in a failure to persecute nazis.  But surely the role of any government, particularly a democratic one, is to protect the interests of its own citizens first?  People like Mr. Simpson forget that international law cuts both ways and may be claimed against your own country in ways you don't like.<br />Many other things about this book annoyed me greatly.  In summary, though, it is a hindsighted, one-sided, polymic against western lawyers and businessmen.  It goes into excrutiating detail over the way the US policy on war crimes developed during the war (hence the 2 star rating), but most of this is about diplomacy and politics, rather than law, and at a time when diplomacy and politics had already failed dismally to prevent war and other tragedies.<br />The conclusion is high minded balderdash, a bunch of conclusory statements unsupported by the rest of the work and steeped in intellectual judgments made 50 years after the fact.  The final paragraph contains the most ridiculous statement in the whole book &quot;The cycle of genocide can be broken through relatively simple - but politically difficult - reform in the international legal system&quot;.  This is like saying that more gun control laws will prevent murders, or that a manned mission to mars will be easy so long as some difficult technical issues are worked out.  What utter nonsense.<br />Read AJP Taylor if you want an example of what proper historical writing is supposed to look like.ne, is to protect the interests of its own citizens first?  People like Mr. Simpson forget that international law cuts both ways and may be claimed against your own country in ways you don't like.  <br />Many other things about this book annoyed me greatly.  In summary, though, it is a hindsighted, one-sided, polymic against western lawyers and businessmen.  It goes into excrutiating detail over the way the US policy on war crimes developed during the war (hence the 2 star rating), but most of this is about diplomacy and politics, rather than law, and at a time when diplomacy and politics had already failed dismally to prevent war and other tragedies.<br />The conclusion is high minded balderdash, a bunch of conclusory statements unsupported by the rest of the work and steeped in intellectual judgments made 50 years after the fact.  The final paragraph contains the most ridiculous statement in the whole book &quot;The cycle of genocide can be broken through relatively simple - but politically difficult - reform in the international legal system&quot;.  This is like saying that more gun control laws will prevent murders, or that a manned mission to mars will be easy so long as some difficult technical issues are worked out.  What utter nonsense.<br />Read AJP Taylor if you want an example of what proper historical writing is supposed to look like.	2001-06-18
US	52821450	R3G1LDPDIWEZSY	0849331374	882374762	The Telecommunications Handbook	Books	2	4	15	N	N	Section on regulation very disappointing	I bought this book because I recently joined the in-house legal department of a telecom company and wanted to know more about telecom regulation.  I saw the book in a bookstore and, seeing that it had about 150 pages on regulation, ordered it through amazon later.  Big mistake.  The regulation section is a series of almost completely random articles on the subject of regulation - whatever they could get a contributor to write about, I guess.  I wanted a structured intro into US telecom regulation.  While there is some coverage it is not presented as a guide and there is a lot of utterly useless stuff - for an example, a discussion of the Gambian experience in deregulation (I wish I was making this up..).  I had planned to read the rest of the book for general industry reference, but assuming it is of similar quality, it is hard for me to work up the energy to do so.	2001-05-23
US	52821450	R3VAWFFFJ1DMOL	0750672579	535009755	Netspionage: The Global Threat to Information	Books	1	11	13	N	N	A waste of money	This is the first book that I have read that originates from a Power Point presentation.  You can tell because the original Power Point slides are reproduced (poorly) and intersperced throughout the book.    <br />I would guess that these slides were used to great effect several years ago to stunned senior managers of companies still figuring out what the Internet meant.  But in 2001, most people are beyond needing this explained to them.  To give an idea of the target audience, one of the slides is titled something like &quot;Historical Development of Information Technology&quot; and includes &quot;Invention of Abacus - 3,000 B.C.&quot;  Is that big picture and patronizing enough for you? How about page after page explaining what the Internet is and revelations like &quot;Other companies can use the Internet to do bad things.  Like gather information about YOUR company.&quot; &quot;Other companies may try to STEAL your information&quot;.  Etc. etc. etc., mostly filler (probably the filler they used to fill out the time giving the presentation)  A saving grace would have been if the authors had annecdotes of real instances of &quot;Netspionage&quot;, or other &quot;inside&quot; experiences to impart, but most of the concrete examples they give appear to be from published cases.  So, if you already know what the Internet is and that IT security is imporant, don't bother.  If you don't know either of these things, buy a book about the Internet and remember, IT security is imporant.	2001-05-02
US	52821450	R28YT03O7IAKIH	070437112X	848377274	Nomonhan	Books	1	31	32	N	N	One of the worst books I have read in some time	Actually, perhaps I am not being fair, as I don't think I will be able to force myself to finish it.  But based on the first 80 pages or so, here are my reasons for judging it so poorly.<br />First, it is atrocious history.  One can only assume that he is regurgitating most of Alvin Coox's definitive book on the subject and the author acknowledges his heavy reliance on that work at the beginning.  That said, however, there appears to be a great deal of laziness at hammering down details; the book is full of statements qualified by &quot;apparently&quot; or &quot;perhaps&quot; or &quot;seeming&quot; or, &quot;professor so and so has asserted that&quot;...  The author uses virtually no original source material from either side.  In fact, the bibliography apparently lists more book length sources on Thailand and Indochina than the battle of Nomonhan itself.  What do these countries have to do with the subject, you may ask?  Well, I guess because the author found it necessary to tell the before and after part of the actual Nomonhan battle (i.e., start before the Russo-Japanese war, end up at World War 2).  In fact a good quarter of th book consists of this &quot;filler&quot; which has been dealt with so much more thoroughly and so much better in numerous other definitive sources (none of which the author refers to in his bibliography).<br />Second, it oozes condescension towards the Japanese; references to the &quot;Nipponese&quot;, etc. etc.  The references to &quot;Tokio&quot; as the capital of Japan throughout are particularly annoying.  Typical of both this attitude and the level of historiography being practiced is his (unsupported) appraisal of one Japanese general:  &quot;He really seems to have been an impulsive man, and a rather amateurish soldier.&quot;  He also has this bizarre need to repeatedly identify those Soviet participants who are jewish.  Maybe this goes somewhere, but I couldn't see the relevance.<br />Third, the writing is attrocious.  I found it almost impossible to follow the narrative, both because sentences were so convoluted and because of almost random leaps from subject to Subject.  For example, from a paragraph that starts with the historical situation between Mongolia and the Soviet Union in the 1920s, we end up (same paragraph) with a statement regarding the survival of Buddhist culture after the collapse of the Soviet Union, and move into a new paragraph about the Mongolian climate that starts &quot;Spring in these latitudes is a trying season, not the joyous rebirth of western Europe, but a time of winds and sand driven against eyes and face and ears&quot;, followed by a paragraph about the resumption of patrolling on the Halha river in 1939.  As for sentence structure, here is a typical example of punctuation abuse:<br />&quot;Although Ueda had assured the throne that there was no intention to expand the incident, it is therefore difficult to see, other than alarm at a presumed Soviet offensive, or an arrogant wish to chasties presumption, why Komatsubara on 26th May should have authorized Yamagata to mount an offensive in the politically sensitive disrupted zone east of Khalkin Gol, except as a pre-emptive strike.&quot;  Close to gibberish, right?<br />To be fair (again), my third set of complaints may be due as much to poor editing.<br />In any case, I really wish I hadn't bought this book.  I have long wanted to learn more about the battle of NOmonhan without making the investment in time and money to read Alvin Coox's tome on the subject.  This book does not fill the gap as a quick and readable account.  The only thing I got out of this book is the realization that I should by Alvin Coox's book and struggle through it or wait for a better account to come along.	2001-03-26
US	52821450	R1DE8QOQHF1HOH	0140170413	803838595	The Price of Glory: Verdun 1916	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A great book	I really enjoyed reading this book though it takes a while to get used to the author's style.  But the tale is gripping and he brings many of the principal actors to life, in all of their incompetence in many cases.  This book does suffer, however, from one problem, though not as badly as in his book about the Algerian conflict (which I had to give up on); his assumption that the reader is conversant in French and that it is therefore perfectly acceptable to move the narrative along with untranslated quotes in that language.  He does the same with German quotations as well.  Annoying, but it dies off later in the book.	2001-03-19
US	52821450	RXYHTPY2TFVZV	1897959222	12579304	Angola:  Promises and Lies	Books	4	1	2	N	N	An interesting account of a poorly covered war	While this is a better book than &quot;This House Has Fallen&quot; the author's most recent book about Nigeria, it suffers from the same problem of being a series of frequently random encounters with the country in question and the events in it over a period of several years.  There is some attempt to give the readers a more structured understanding of the historical and political background, but at the end of the day it is a series of points on a timeline as experienced by the author.  His experiences are very interesting, and he is a thoughtful and observant writer who feels an admirable degree of passion for those suffering from the ongoing conflict.	2001-03-05
US	52821450	REPOB7F7XF2UT	0679438734	135633049	Big Kiss: One Actor's Desperate Attempt to Claw His Way to the Top	Books	2	2	7	N	N	Ho hum	I guess I managed to finish it, but there are no belly laughs in this book.  Maybe there are for those who really appreciate the subtleties of the rather-seeming world of priviliged gay New York artistic types, but I guess I am just not hip to that scene.  The man can write and clearly has a good eye for the humorous side of life, but this just wasn't the hysterically funny book earlier reviews had led me to believe.	2001-03-02
US	52821450	R2UN2J2SJRRE2B	0316777722	491689172	Me Talk Pretty One Day	Books	2	4	7	N	N	Disappointing compared to &quot;Naked&quot;	With his latest book I got the distinct impression that David Sedaris had run out of amusing episodes in his own past to write about other than a few things that were clearly from the bottom of the barrel.  So a lot of the book is written about experiences he has had since becoming a well known writer and there is a &quot;gosh aren't I unique in my way of life and attitude&quot; aspect to these that just isn't endearing in the way that his self view from Naked and Barrel Fever were.  A good part of the attempted humor is his restructuring into English of conversations he and others had in the process of learning French.  Funny for the first paragraph, but gets old quickly because it is such a blatantly manipulative humorous device.<br />Coming to this book alone I would have given it 3 stars, but having enjoyed Naked and Barrel Fever so much, points off for disappointment in light of high expectations. . .	2001-03-01
US	52821450	R3AT3HCT00Z53X	0670859508	909606724	Crypto: How the Code Rebels Beat the Government--Saving Privacy in the Digital Age	Books	5	2	8	N	N	I couldn't put it down, and it made me want to know more	. . . which is about as much you can ask or say of a good non-fiction book.	2001-02-27
US	52821450	R3KD4SI38IDHWG	0312269889	992034516	Notes from the Hyena's Belly: An Ethiopian Boyhood	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An engaging story	I found this to be a very engaging story, with a good mix of local color, historical development and Ethiopian culture.  The way it is written raises questions as to how factual all of the content is, but that does not make it any less interesting as a story.  The weakest parts are his descriptions of political developments among Ethiopia's leadership, which frequently come across more as off-the-cuff characterizations you might here from someone in a bar rather than true insight.  Despite being described on its cover by one reviewer &quot;a glimpse into hell&quot;, the book does not dwell excessively on the gruesome things the author experienced, and even those do not fill up a great deal of the book, about half of which is devoted to his childhood which overall seems to have been pretty pleasant.  This is not to marginalize the terrible things that did happen to him, his family or Ethiopia, the point just being that he does not dwell on them with excessive or graphic detail.	2001-02-07
US	52821450	R3THUZ6K8G5MK5	0465087604	445649978	Tropical Gangsters: One Man's Experience With Development And Decadence In Deepest Africa	Books	3	7	21	N	N	Interesting but less than the title suggests	Perhaps I have a warped perspective because I read Tropical Gangsters around the same time as reading accounts of Congo, Somalia, the Sudan, Rawanda and other African genocides, but Robert Klitgaard's experience in Equatorial Guinea was not all that bad, comparatively speaking.  Which is not to say it is an interesting book.  But a lot of what he does is office work; put together presentations, have meetings, plan strategies, etc.  He does them in interesting surroundings in interesting circumstances, but at the end of the day it is white collar work.  And in his spare time he surfs, visits with friends, drives around the country side and so forth.  All of which is interesting to read about for most of us.  And occasionally there are very low key coup attempts and a couple of people he knows are arrested and tortured.  But it is unclear who the &quot;gangsters&quot; he refers to are; most of the people in the Equatoguinean government he works with seem honest and eager to get his help in furthering economic development.  He does not personally experience any of the outrageous examples of corruption you read about in the context of other African countries.  For comparative purposes, try &quot;In the Footsteps of Mister Kurtz&quot; about Zaire/Congo, which shows how bad things really could be.	2001-02-05
US	52821450	R3SV7QB3M0MZRZ	1565843347	357008389	Exterminate All the Brutes	Books	5	7	7	N	N	One of the most disturbing books I have read in some time. .	. . .and I say this as someone who has spent several years studying military history and is currently going through a period of reading first hand accounts of terrible happenings in Africa (such as &quot;Me Against My Brother&quot;).  It adds historical continuity to the Nazi war against the Jews, and unfortunately that continuity leads straight back to Victorian England and other 19th century European powers (and certainly well back into history, but the author doesn't go that far as pointed out by other reviewers) and their &quot;developmental&quot; policies in their colonial empires.<br />It is an engaging read and structured in an interesting way.  I only realized that it was a translated work after I read it, which is a great kudo to the translator.  I would actually give it 4.5 stars simply because in many places it is unclear whether he is quoting historical texts without citation or just paraphrasing them, which can be an important distinction to keep clear.  But not having so finely a graded scoring system I am erring on the good side.	2001-02-05
US	52821450	R1D9X4WZFGNRF0	0895262819	322297704	The China Threat: How the People's Republic Targets America	Books	4	23	32	N	N	Nobody has really refuted anything. . .	Another scary book, like Mosher's &quot;Hegemon&quot;.  Showing the many ways in which China regards the U.S. as an enemy and acts accordingly.  Whether they are justified in doing so is an irrelevant argument if you are on the U.S. side of the ocean.  I note that most of the 1 star reviews simply shriek that the author is a racist or Americans are terrible because they read these racist books etc., which seems increasingly to be what passes for discourse on the merits of a set of propositions, as opposed to actually dealing with content.  There is one one star review which actually deals with the content and for which I have great respect.<br />Otherwise, folks, I think the author has done a good job of investigating and reporting on facts which a lot of people, particularly in the Clinton administration, do not want to think about because they are so giddy with the prospect of the exciting things happening in China on the business side of the ledger.  Too bad; if anyone thinks that the communists at the top of the country, when confronted with a choice between economic benefits for all and political power for themselves, would choose the former, they are in for some disappointment.	2001-01-23
US	52821450	R2CO7F3LMPVPMS	1891620789	530612786	Cyberselfish	Books	2	13	17	N	N	Starts well, gets tedious	Ms. Borsook's book starts out well, makes some good points, including the basic idea that the prevalent libertarianism associated with high tech culture is selfish, misguided yet a growing force in America today.  Her insights from attendance at various high-tech events were particularly interesting.  However, I have given up in the middle of her chapter about the magazine &quot;Wired&quot;, which is based on her personal experiences and oh Lord does she grind the ax to the nub.  <br />After a while her writing style also gets extremely tedious: paragraph-length sentences full of jargon-laden descriptives, high tech turns of phrase and dependent clauses.  Maybe you need to write that way for magazines to get as much information as you can into a short space, but in a book it really starts to wear.	2000-11-14
US	52821450	R36DHHZR2RK426	0670891622	197999044	A Massive Swelling:  Celebrity Re-Examined As a Grotesque, Crippling Disease and Other Cultural Revelations	Books	5	2	6	N	N	Nasty, Intelligent and Funny - the classic combo	Oh, this book is funny.  Yes.  Funny funny funny.  Read it now.  I need to get it back from the person I lent it to so I can read it again.	2000-10-30
US	52821450	RJHZJW8TEKAIP	0380729415	809531963	Equator: A Journey	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A great travel book	Intelligent, insightful, and not at all patronizing of the cultures he visits.  He did manage to hit some of the world's hell-holes along the way.  The sections on French Guyana and the South Pacific were particularly  interesting.	2000-07-27
US	52821450	R1NA10BYRJGD4B	0786865539	30407008	My Goodness: A Cynic's Short-Lived Search for Sainthood	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Sigh. . .	&quot;If You are Talking to Me, Your Career Must be in Trouble&quot; was so funny.  Everything else Joe has done is a letdown.  Joe tries to be &quot;good&quot;, but takes the process of deciding to do so as an  opportunity to regurgitate all sorts of nasty things he has said about  people.  Then he sets up a straw man set of &quot;good&quot; (but really,  as he knows, ridiculous) lifestyle choices, such as drinking shade grown  coffee and giving money to the right (i.e. liberal) causes, and tries to  live by them (all the while subtley ridiculing them).  Yes, the scorn parts  are funny.  But the sad thing is that with a few exceptions he seems to  equate being good with spending money; writing checks to organizations and  people.  It means he was never sincere in his attempt to be good in the  fist place, or he has been so mean for so long that money is the only thing  of value he thinks he has to give to anyone.  Maybe if he had spent time  talking to old people in a retirement home or playing with children in a  children's hospital, the book would not have reached its predictable  conclusion.  Then again, us fans of Joe's nastiness would have nothing to  look forward to.  My expectations get lower with each book, though.	2000-07-27
US	52821450	R1PZS6CNK3KYGJ	0520222296	577762469	Paradise for Sale: A Parable of Nature	Books	1	15	36	N	N	This book is crap	If you want to learn anything about Nauru, don't bother.  If you have a significant emotional investment in the idea that the earth is doomed and western culture is raping the planet, then this is the book for you.  Just  be sure to read it by candlelight so you aren't guilty of intellectual  dishonesty (no animal fat or paraffin candles allowed, either).<br />But then  intellectual dishonesty is at the very core of this book.  The Nauran  people, who you would think play the central role in this undeniable  environmental tragedy, are mere scenery.  The authors never bother to  provide anything other than shallow reporting of their culture, history or  current situation.  The fact that the authors are lamenting on their behalf  is presumably adequate.  Similarly, as pointed out in another review, the  authors wrote most of the book without bothering to visit, then spent  thousands of dollars to ride on a gas-guzzling, ozone-destroying jet to add  some credibility to their preconceived notions.  And the whole analogy of  Nauru (small isolated island with limited resources and diversity) as Earth  (large, diverse lots of resources) is simplistic, but really relevant?  The  authors never really bother with relevance, because hey, simplistic  analogies speak for themselves.  In any case, the authors don't seem to  have any serious credentials (other than burning sincerity and concern,  which is often all you need in some circles), so it is hard to give much  credence to what they say about science or anything else.<br />But what I  found most offensive was the authors' condescending western liberal  intellectual &quot;gee aren't the natives cute and oh-so-wise&quot; view of  certain non-western cultures that they annoint as being &quot;in tune&quot;  with their environments.  They give a number of examples, but the one that  sticks in my mind is the Ladhki (sp.?) people, who supposedly live in  harmony with their harsh mountain environment.  The authors concede that  this culture has a high infant mortality rate, but that individuals who  make it past the age of five generally enjoy a long healthy life.  Well,  that's just fine isn't it?  As long as it's someone else's babies who are  dying. . .   But then that is the real problem, isn't it; too many people.   If they would just stop reproducing (or living, at least since premature  death is the unspoken aspect of &quot;living in harmony with the  environment) and aspiring to the same quality of life that the authors  enjoy (well, they probably feel suitably guilty about it), everything would  be fine.<br />Make no mistakes; turning a tropical island into a lunar  wasteland is a terrible thing, and the people who have to live there  probably wish things were different.  But this is so blindingly obvious  that a whole book on the subject would be (and is) ridiculous.	2000-07-27
US	52821450	R1NA6MZE096B3	0716731355	390140378	Islands: Portraits of Miniature Worlds	Books	1	14	17	N	N	Don't bother	Actually, 1.5 stars is probably more appropriate because (a) the book does contain some interesting natural history factoids and (b) it is not as bad as &quot;Paradise for Sale&quot;, another recent book about Islands.   <br />The book consists of a series of travelogues full of the author's random  observations about a number of islands: Iceland, Bermuda, Crete, Bali,  Lombok, Madagascar, etc.  As a clue to where the book is headed, the last  chapter is about &quot;earth&quot;.  Yes, as you might guess from that  fact, a principal theme is all the terrible things people (western people,  mainly) are doing to the earth, as is evidenced by developments in  individual island communities.  <br />As mentioned above, there is some  interesting canned natural history type information interspersed throughout  the book, but there is very little structure - mostly whatever happened to  strike the author at the time of her visit, or whatever random information  she had about the destination that she assumes readers will not have.  The  chapter on iceland swings between recent volcanic activity and the fact  that there used to be european colonies in Greenland and Leif Erikson  discovered North America (i.e., rather than Columbus or the people who  already lived there).<br />Her observations about the societies in the islands  she visits are worthless and are almost a parody of well meaning but  condescending and clueless western intellectual attitudes to non-western  societies.  One island has experienced improved economic development  &quot;because women have entered the work force and been freed of never  ending childbirth and virtual slavery at home&quot;.  As with most of this  book, this is an unsupported assertion.  Then, in Sri Lanka she is pleased  by the sight of women laboring in the tea plantations &quot;in their  brightly colored sari&quot;, while the men do the &quot;fun&quot; jobs of  fishing and digging for valuable stones (covered in mud in deep pits;  soundslike fun, hey guys?).  Bali and Lombok have happy, multicultural  societies (laughable, given recent events in Indonesia).  Ancient Minoan  aristocrats led elegant lives, wore nice clothes and lived in nice houses  (this is far enough in the past that the slavery, etc. part of that culture  gets filtered out).  Some statements are just plain idiotic:  the people of  Bali live &quot;pleasant and enjoyable lives&quot; - is the author giving  up her culture to join them? I bet many of them would gladly trade places  with her. &quot;Simple devices made of aluminum foil can be used to cook  food using sunlight instead of cutting down trees for wood&quot;.  Is the  author using this device every day at home?  At night?  On rainy days?    <br />Even the environmental analysis is spotty and judgment-laden:  slash and  burn agriculture by substinence farmers is bad, land that has been cleared  for tea plantations in Sri Lanka or terraced for mono-culture rice farming  in Bali seems okay because they make the scenery pretty.  Animals which  float to islands on natural rafts in storms and adapt to the new  environment are okay, but dogs brought by westerners and adapt by wiping  out indigent species are bad.    <br />The ironic thing is that in one of the  last chapters about coral atolls, she notes that coral is already growing  around the sunken ships in the Bikini atoll despite the area having been  NUKED repeatedly.  So much for the rest of her statements about all the  terrible things western culture is supposedly doing to the  &quot;fragile&quot; environment.  <br />In closing she states that the earth  is an island and &quot;time is running out&quot;.  Typical apocolyptic  environmentalism by someone who clearly needs to believe that events she  witnesses during her life time, and therefor her participation are somehow  more significant than any other period of time.	2000-07-26
US	52821450	R27PWIDRIT0V95	0767904966	62767557	The Yamato Dynasty: The Secret History of Japan's Imperial Family	Books	3	6	10	N	N	A good read, but. . .	It is always nice to see an &quot;outsider&quot; write something which challenges much of the orthodoxy of Japanese history.  This is particularly so with a subject such as the imperial family, where the freedom of  expression of people in Japan to write freely and bluntly about the subject  is kept in check by the threat of, well, death, among other things.<br />That  said, the Seagraves do not read Japanese and rely heavily on sources that  do not either (e.g. books such as &quot;Sheathing the Sword&quot; and  &quot;Soldiers of the Sun&quot;).  So much of what they rely on is  filtered.  So, as serious scholarship goes, its all rubbish.  But readable,  tantalizing and entertaining rubbish.  If even 20% of what they assert is  true then the assertions are worth keeping in the back of one`s mind when  looking at more traditional historical works.	2000-07-26
US	52821450	R1AJU9ENP3LCYA	0786884649	707244782	Confessions of a Cineplex Heckler: Celluloid Tirades and Escapades	Books	2	6	7	N	N	Not Joe Queenan's best work	I loved Joe Queenan's &quot;If You Are Talking to Me your Career Must be in Trouble&quot; and have sought out everything else he has written since reading that hilarious book several years ago.  This book is a  disappointment.  Part of the problem is that when put together, you realize  that a lot of his essays consist either of: (a) the juxtaposition of movies  with similar story lines to illustrate the point that Hollywood movies are  formulaic (shocking revelation; its amusing the first time he does it, but  wears thin after a while); or (b) attempting to do replicate feats in  movies in real life to illustrate the concept that Hollywood movies are  unrealistic (another shocking revleation; this wasn't funny to me even the  first time).  The essay which involved him acting like a jerk in movie  theatres just didn't work for me either.  Still has a few chuckles in it  and good observations on movies.  The piece about nun movies is quite  amusing.	2000-05-15
US	52821450	R1PDB5RC9MYGBA	0803722737	489163791	Max's Breakfast (Max and Ruby)	Books	2	1	6	N	N	A pain to read	The pictures in this book are wonderful, but I can't say my baby loves the book and more than anything else, it is hard (and uninteresting) for an adult to read out loud.  This is because it consists almost exclusively of  rather dull reported speach: &quot;Eat your egg Max&quot; said Max's sister  Ruby&quot; seems innocuous in print, but try reading it out loud a few  times.	1999-11-30
US	52821450	R1MFRX4FSQYHND	0394899563	365664895	Bunny Rattle: (Babies) (Learning Ladders-Blue Ladder for Babies)	Books	1	0	0	N	N	Don't buy it.	In my experience this book is tedious for parent and child alike.  The pictures are uninspired and lack any soul, and the cloth is not particularly pleasant to the touch.  Generally in my experience if a book  appeals to the parent reading it, there is at least a chance the child will  like it too.  The reverse is rarely true, though, so this book is a dud.	1999-10-20
US	52821450	R3HEEYUPXCKJIX	0140277447	803730078	The Rape of Nanking: The Forgotten Holocaust of World War II	Books	3	9	14	N	N	Poor history, but a good account.	Touted as &quot;the first book in English about the Nanking massacre&quot;, it is not; Dick Wilson includes a detailed account in his account of the Sino-Japanese war &quot;When Tigers Fight&quot;.  The  author, being of Chinese heritage, begins her account with a statement to  the effect that everyone in her family new about the massacre, though none  experienced it personally.  This sets the tone for the type of  historiography which follows.  While she does do an excellent job of  relating accounts of survivors and other details of a tragedy about which  there is not enough awareness in the west, such an important story deserved  firmer foundations.  I am not, by any means, questioning what took place,  but (for example) she relies on a single contemporary newspaper account to  back up a statement that because of the Japanese the population of a  certain Chinese city was reduced from many thousands to just ten people;  query as to whether that would be an adequate source for a term paper, let  alone a book which purports to be ground-breaking.  And granted, the  Japanese did some terrible things in China and elsewhere, but the book  seems full of negative generalizations about the Japanese which many would  probably find objectionable if directed at other ethnic groups.	1999-04-02
US	52821450	R2XM85EQHAACYD	0679759271	459391111	Lethal Passage: The Story of a Gun	Books	4	20	67	N	N	Should be required reading for anyone joining the NRA!	This is a very well written and researched account of a tragic event of the nature we encounter too often in the daily news.  At the same time, it illuminates the tragic and absurd situation in which the country has placed  itself on the subject of gun control.	1999-02-08
US	52821450	R1WQ8F8O2N6NF9	0871137194	565870539	Eat the Rich: A Treatise on Economics	Books	4	1	3	N	N	An excellent read from P.J., as usual	As far as I can tell, the premise of the book, economic navel gazing, is  just an excuse for PJ to go to various places and write nasty things about  them.  Which is fine as far as it goes for us fans of P.J. O'Rourke, but  for those familiar with his prior writings there are no surprising  conclusions on the subject of political economy.  But heck, his stuff is  always fun to read, though sometimes the effort involved in tying  everything to economics an arrive at the conclusion that free markets are  good seems to distract him from the equally, if not more important task of  being funny.	1998-10-14
US	52821450	R3HFUJXFFS9MNI	0670870951	436220225	Stalingrad: The Fateful Siege, 1942-1943	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent	One of the most human-oriented accounts of a major battle I have ever  read.  And let's face it, military history which describes battles in terms  of movements of units on a map can be incredibly tedious.  This is not such  an account, and it does an excellent job of illustrating what it was like  to be there.  I recommend it highly.	1998-10-14
US	52821450	R2PB95ID0MGS8P	0786863323	7901323	Red Lobster, White Trash, & the Blue Lagoon: Joe Queenan's America	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Funny but disappointing	Joe Queenan's earlier book, &quot;If you're talking to me. . .&quot; was  hilarious, and though his latest book contains the occasional good belly  laugh, for the most part I found it disappointing.  The main problem is  that he spends too much time saying that things suck, but only infrequently  delves into why.  When he does, as in his summary of the book &quot;Flowers  in the Attic&quot;, he is a genius comic writer, but most of the time he  just describes things as sucking, which gets a little old after awhile.	1998-08-26
US	52821450	R2Y7GBOZAARRZT	1564143341	227723800	Graham Crackers: Fuzzy Memories, Silly Bits, and Outright Lies	Books	1	6	7	N	N	Mediocre grave robbery	Although Graham Chapman was a very funny and creative man, there is probably a reason why much of the material in this book has not been published before.  While there is the occasional good laugh, and some of the details on the way Monty Python worked is interesting, overall it is an extremely disappointing book, particularly if you have read &quot;A Liar's Autobiography&quot;.  All in all, I would prefer to have my memories of Graham Chapman's creativity be based on that hilarious book, rather than this disappointing hodgepodge of miscellanea.	1998-07-27
US	52821450	R1A1I9OA9MZMX2	038548870X	374237140	Serpent in Paradise: Among the People of the Bounty	Books	4	12	15	N	N	A fascinating read marred only by the author's character	As more people go to places that were previously remote, travel writing becomes more and more contrived resulting in books like &quot;Across India by Elephant&quot;.  Pitcairn Island, however, is probably one of the few places left on earth that is truly remote.  Dea Birkett not only gets there (no mean feat in itself) but manages to stay for several months and gets to know the islanders.  The book is fascinating as a study of a community that is truly unique; less than 40 people, almost all related to each other, living thousands of miles from anywhere and dependent largely on the kindness of random passing ships and distant dreamers.  In that sense the book is pretty hard to put down.  Unfortunately, the author's constant negativity soon becomes distracting.  She has few kind things to say about anyone, and descriptions of the islanders, their words, their actions, either hint of disparagement or are outright critical.  This is a bit galling given that she lied about her purpose to obtain permission to visit, and one of the families opened their house to a her, a complete stranger, for several months.  As the book progresses, it becomes apparent that the islanders don't really mean anything to the author other than as a medium for her own experiences; as something to write about.  Toward the end she has an affair with one of the islanders, a married man whose family is off-island.  Although she denies it at least twice when confronted about it in person, she has no qualms about writing about it in her book.  Classy, huh?	1998-04-20
US	52821450	R392SGCQRKOD9X	0688100643	971632676	A History of the Twentieth Century 1900-1933, Vol. 1	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Don't let the critics dissuade you	Martin Gilbert is a fine writer and an excellent historian.  I was surprised to read this work described as a &quot;themeless pudding&quot; and criticized in other reviews as (effectively) not containing enough analysis.  Why does a historical work have to have a specific &quot;theme&quot;? Having slogged through many history books where the the author analyzes the subject matter to the point of obfuscating what actually happened, I can only say kudos to Mr. Gilbert for actually relaying events and letting us draw our own conclusions.  If you want to know what happened when, Mr. Gilbert lays it all out in an engaging and often touching manner.  I look forward to the next two volumes.	1998-03-30
