US	52821457	R24BYD2ASOO7WM	186872414X	414517584	Okavango: Africa's Wetland Wilderness	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A colorful overview of the Okavango	Adrian Bailey spent a year in the Okavango Delta of Botswana in order to photograph this remarkably attractive place.  The result is a collection of very inviting color photos that do a superb job of capturing the flavor of the flora and fauna of the area.  The text of the book tells the story of the formation of the Okavango Delta as well as describing the daily life of many of its inhabitants.   <br /> <br />     This book is not intended to be a guidebook for those who want to tour the Okavango.  For that I recommend Duncan Butchart's \\"Wildlife of the Okavango: Common Animals and Plants\\", a pocket-sized guide that does a good job of covering about 99% of what you are likely to see on a short trip to the region.  Bailey's book is more for those who either want a visual tour for getting better acquainted with the Okavango Delta or better yet as a souvenir for those who have visited it.  The book is of medium-large size and 176 pages in length.  There are pictures on every page and the quality of the photographs is first rate.	2005-10-03
US	52821457	R1D3HV8H8KX6CV	0815606753	108539902	Albert Schweitzer: A Biography, Second Edition (Albert Schweitzer Library)	Books	4	17	26	N	N	Thoroughly researched, fair, and readable	Any biographer attempting to write a life of Albert Schweitzer is facing a herculean task.  One must be knowledgeable in widely disparate areas of endeavor: medicine, theology, philosophy, and music.  Moreoever, one has to wade through mountains of letter correspondence, books, and articles written by and about Albert Schweitzer, not to mention a willingness to research his family and geographical background.  Finally, travel to the places Schweitzer lived and interviews with those who knew him take time and effort to properly digest.  James Brabazon has done a magnificent job in combining all these variables into a first rate biography of an amazing man.  Not only that, he has fairly evaluated the man and his ideas in light of both the praise and censure Schweitzer received.  Moreover, except in a few places where technical writing was necessary, the book seldom drags and makes for good reading, the kind that keeps one interested and wanting more, even when it's time for bed. <br /> <br />     Brabazon is clearly won over by Schweitzer's life and ideas, a true disciple.  The positive side of this is that he is able to explain (and sometimes defend) Schweitzer's ideas and actions in a convincing fashion.  Unlike many who criticized Schweitzer based on cursory observations, Brabazon's thoroughness and enthusiasm allow him to select various passages from letters or works to show Schweitzer's attitudes and philosophies with lucidity.  The down side of this (and the reason this book gets four stars instead of five) is that Brabazon shares the same blind spots Schweitzer did, especially with respect to his dubious theology.  Schweitzer simply assumed (without hard data or proof) many of his doubts about the veracity of the New Testament; from these assumptions, he built up a very elaborate system of belief that when it comes right down to it is not Christianity but rather ideas that decades later would come to be labeled as New Age.  Brabazon seems to think that Schweitzer's work is \\"objective\\" and that the reason for much of its unpopularity had to do with its upsetting the status quo as well as local historical factors (such as suspicion of anything German with the advent of World War I).  He never openly entertains the idea that many people just plain 'ole don't find Schweitzer's arguments convincing.  Nor does he seem to see that if Schweitzer's hubristic assumptions turn out to be wrong - namely, that the New Testament IS historically reliable, that the miracles did occur, that the resurrection did occur, that Jesus did think he was the messiah, that Jesus did not die for an illusion, et. al. - his ENTIRE theological system collapses like a house of cards.  (Reader's interested in an alternative to the \\"if miraculous, then unhistorical\\" bias against biblical passages may consult C.S. Lewis's essay \\"Modern Theology and Biblical Criticism\\" in the book \\"Christian Reflections\\".) <br /> <br />     Brabazon manages to give a fairly even account of Schweitzer for almost the entire book.  Unfortunately, in his epilogue, the hagiography he had been at some pains to avoid comes gushing in as he sums up Schweitzer's life with melodramatic hyperbole, e.g.,  \\"He was normal, in fact, to an abnormal degree.  He was superhumanly human.  He was excessively balanced.\\"  (Abnormally normal?  Superhumanly human?  Balanced..excessively??) <br /> <br />     Still, taking it all in all, this was a very, very good biography, thoroughly researched, well written, and for the most part fair.  He successfully tells the STORY of Schweitzer's life and gives a good idea of what life was like for him as a youth, student, pastor, musician, and physician working under physically demanding circumstances in Gabon, Africa.  The second edition is valuable for the additional light thrown on Schweitzer's marriage with Hlne and his valuable role in helping to sway public opinion to bring to light the problems of nuclear testing, eventually resulting in the TestBan Treaty in August of 1963.  If one can manage to take the theology presented in it with a very large grain of salt, one can agree with what Conor Cruise O'Brien wrote: \\"This biography is, I think, unlikely to be superseded.\\"	2005-07-18
US	52821457	R4GHG8WDMKZAG	0140103449	627173263	Unveiling India: A Woman's Journey	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Unveiling the lives of women in India	What is it like for an Indian woman to live in the world of purdah - the system of isolating and secluding married women?  What kinds of hopes or fears or monotony awaits an existence where you rarely or never leave a house, hidden behind curtained quarters?  Anees Jung, herself reared in the tradition of purdah, left India to explore the world and when she returned, she wanted to know more of the various experiences of women who still lived behind the veil, still secluded away from society.  She therefore set out on journeys from her base in New Delhi, talking and interviewing various women about their lives.  Those stories, and her reflections on them, are brought out in \\"Unveiling India: A Woman's Journey\\". <br /> <br />     The author encountered a range of stories from the happy to the sad, tragic to monotonous, fearful to courageous.  The women she talked to told of how their identity was wrapped up in their ability (or lack thereof) to have children.  (\\"To be a wife, to be a mother.  That is what a woman is born to be.  Therein lies her identity, her utility, her reason to be alive,\\" said one.)  Just as important as having children was the desire to produce males.  (She shares one survey that reported on some 8,000 abortions, of which 7,999 were female fetuses.)  Some women told of how their lives were dominated by fear, others by poverty, others by exploitation of unfair wages.  Some women talked about the monotony of seclusion - one woman who rarely even ventured out of her room (let alone the house), remarked that there was nowhere for her to go and no one to talk to, that by evening each day she was disgruntled, depressed, and unhappy.  \\"To live in this part of the world means to live in a vacuum.  Time loses its validity and days their count.  There are no weekdays no weekends.  I figure my days by light and by darkness and a long unending stretch of just living - no purpose, no motivation, no productivity.\\" <br /> <br />     Others talked about fulfilling marital relationships, of children bringing meaning to the household or of the role that religion (usually Hinduism) played in their lives.  Some were able to share the joys of newfound freedom and self-respect that was burgeoning for women in becoming village nurses or joining the Self Employed Womens' Association (SEWA).  In fact, Anees Jung's journey might be described as that of a social midwife, someone who traveled around India and assisted women in giving birth to their voice.  She gave women a means, an opportunity with which to speak their mind, share their wealth of good and bad experiences, and to express their hopes and fears. <br /> <br />     This book is reflective but not maudlin.  It is written in a fine style that conveys the intellectual, emotional, and spiritual components of the women who share their stories, nicely interwoven with the author's reflections on their lives as well as her own.  India's society continues to change; this book chronicles some of the history of that change in sharing the strong flavor of the quotidian existence of India's women.  Simply put, it was a fascinating and englightening book.	2005-06-17
US	52821457	R36YNTFO9XA053	0806118288	567201239	Geronimo: The Man, His Time, His Place (The Civilization of the American Indian Series)	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Fair, thorough, and easy to read	Books commonly do not live up to the hype they receive, so when I read comments about this one being, \\"the only definitive book on this notable Indian\\" and others to that effect, I was initially skeptical.  Then I read the book and found myself agreeing with the praise heaped on it, for Debo did indeed write a balanced and readable account of both Geronimo and the Apache, not to mention various parties from the U.S.A. who dealt with them (such as those in the Department of the Interior or army figures such as General Crook or Britton Davis), all based on years of careful research, personal interviews and extensive correspondance.  The result is a book that gives a little of everything pertaining to Apache life in general and Geronimo and his contemporaries in particular.  She writes with interest about past Apache history, Apache customs (such as the Dance of the Mountain Spirits), geographical distribution of various factions within the tribe, and the lives of those associated with Geronimo such as Cochise, Mangas Coloradas, Victorio, his wives, his sisters, Naiche, Nana, or Loco, to name but a few.  Moreover, she writes of the division of opinion and lifestyle within the Apache themselves with respect to living on reservations and raiding.  The raiding and killing done by Geronimo and other Apache hostiles, coupled with the duplicity and injustice of the U.S. government, ultimately brought disaster on many of the peaceful, productive Apache.  The years of imprisonment and exile following Geronimo's capture show the great forbearance of the Apache, along with the difficulties faced by all parties in trying to preserve the Apache way of life while at the same time trying to become incorporated into mainstream American society. <br /> <br />     Geronimo himself is treated fairly and shown in all his complexities.  The reader is neither given the hero worship type biography nor the spiteful villain approach, but rather a temperate account of a strong, courageous, independent, yet flawed human who both fought for his people and yet brought disaster to them as well.  As such, the man's humanity is revealed: his kindness to children and relatives, his good work ethic (even in old age), his fidelity to justice as he saw it, his courage in battle, his deeply religious nature, and willingness to endure hardship are just as evident as are his hatred towards Mexicans, weakness for alcohol, and willingness to murder and steal.  Photographs are liberally sprinkled throughout the text, providing excellent visual aids. <br /> <br />     I found Debo's writing to be neither overly sentimental nor dry as dust.  She obviously took great interest in her subject and from time to time placed personal comments in the text or footnotes which give the reader the feeling that they are receiving a STORY and not merely a dry academic treatise.  This is definitely a five-star book and I read it with great interest.	2005-04-24
US	52821457	R1Q5J0SMMHAHXQ	1555914985	715709558	God is Red: A Native View of Religion, 30th Anniversary Edition	Books	3	60	80	N	N	Humorous, insightful, and flawed	After a visit with his Aunt Lily while a student at Oxford, C.S. Lewis wrote in his diary, \\"Her conversation is like an old drawer, full both of rubbish and valuable things, but all thrown together in great disorder.\\"  This quote often recurred to me while reading Vine Deloria's book \\"God is Red\\", for he shares many valuable insights regarding Native American Spirituality and its differences from Christianity while at the same time overgeneralizing, misinterpreting, and omitting a mound of evidence that goes against his stated positions so he can argue against straw men.  In other words, \\"God is Red\\" is a true polemic. <br /> <br />     Deloria is at his best when describing the various characteristics of Native American spirituality such as the strong connection with the land or the relation of mankind to all living things.  In this, he gives the reader an insider's view, which is enlightening.  He also correctly points out the many flaws in behavior and inconsistencies in logic demonstrated by many Christians throughout history.  Sometimes he does this in a very telling fashion, as when describing the Treaty of Tordesillas in 1494 where the papal bull divided South America between Spain and Portugal.  \\"Plainly the pope was supervising not the divinely ordered division of the world's lands but national hunting licenses for rape and pillage.\\"  At other times, his biting comments are humorous, as when he talked about a popular movie called Billy Jack, with a character having martial arts expertise who \\"demonstrated his commitment to peace by breaking people's limbs in a spectacular fashion.\\" <br /> <br />     The flaws in this book are unfortunately not mere pecadillos.  For one, Deloria speaks in overly broad generalities, of \\"Indian tribal religions\\" (as though it were a single entity when in fact there is quite a bit of religious variation among the more than 300 tribes), or of behavior of a 'Christians' (when referring to the actions of governments and individuals of western Europe or the U.S. over the years).   <br /> <br />     This tendency to broadly generalize becomes problematic when he assigns blame for the wretched treatment Indians received at the hands of whites in the centuries following the arrival of Colombus.  He commonly takes an anecdote and from this states a principle or generalization that is far too broad to be supported by such isolated events, e.g., an Indian killed in the Korean war not being allowed burial in his own home town in Iowa (before burial in Arlington National Cementery), and then from this states, \\"One can only conclude that the Christian religion and its promise of the afterlifie is not meant for nonwhites.\\" <br /> <br />     Deloria at times paints too much of the \\"White man he bad, red man he good\\" portrait, selecting the worst incidents of abuse over the years while ignoring a mountain of charitable actions done by both individual and corporate whites over years.  Moreover, he frequently talks of the many positive values of Native American society yet omits the more beastly elements of their societies (e.g., kidnapping and torture of prisoners) and constant wars which went on between Native American tribes long before the white man ever set foot in North America. <br /> <br />     In addition to oversimplifying complex issues, there are some serious problems with the subjectivism that Deloria promotes with regard to Native American religions.  \\"Salvation and religious participation in communal ceremonies did not depend on the historical validity of the event but on the ceremonies and powers that were given to the people in the event.\\"  Again, \\"It was not what people believed to be true that was important but what they experienced as true.\\"  Such relativistic thinking is problematic because it questions the very nature of truth.  If something does not need to be historically valid or believable as a doctrine, then one is hard pressed to argue against any position in the world, including the Christianity that Deloria criticizes throughout the book. <br /> <br />     Deloria is insightful when talking about an insider's view of the Indian societies or how an outsider sees Christianity.  He is at his worst making dogmatic statements insufficiently supported by the facts or arguing against straw men.  \\"God is Red\\" is an interesting read, but one that ought to be taken with a large grain of salt.	2005-01-26
US	52821457	R2PHACGT4PYW68	0449904962	326326975	Indian Givers: How the Indians of the Americas Transformed the World	Books	3	46	63	N	N	A good book, though the claims are exaggerated	Jack Weatherford's book &quot;Indian Givers&quot; is a medium-sized (272 pages) book that attempts to share what Native Americans in North and South America have contributed to our modern world.  With a combination of stories and historical discussion, Weatherford's prose makes this book easy reading.  Among other things, he points out the contributions made in the areas of money capitalism (with so much of the world's silver coming from South America, especially Bolivia), many types of foods (including various species of potato, cassava, chocolate, corn syrup, etc.), medicinal contributions such as quinine treatment for malaria, architectural styles, or urban planning, among other things.<br />     Unfortunately, the book suffers from some serious shortcomings.  In attempting to make up for the lack of credit historically witheld from Native Americans, Weatherford does more than just correct this deficiency: he goes too far.  He makes claims that go well beyond what the historical record can substantiate.  In contrast to what history shows, he claims, for example, that the Industrial Revolution started in America(!), and that &quot;without American precious metals and methods of processing, the industrial revolution would never have spread to Europe.&quot; (!!!!)  He furthermore implies that Indians &quot;gave&quot; democracy to the fledgling U.S. (&quot;Washington, D.C., has never recognized the role of the Indians in the writing of the United States Constitution&quot;) and promoted peaceful civil disobedience that inspired the likes of Gandhi and Martin Luther King, Jr., and even claims that liberation movements in Africa and Asia(!?) owed something to American Indians, since &quot;the repeated failures of the Indian movements during the nineteenth century prepared the way for the successes of other peoples in the twentieth century.&quot;  <br />     It is a shame that Weatherford's book is so dreadfully misleading and unbalanced, for it also legitimately pointsout many of the things for which American Indians do indeed deserve credit.  It points a spotlight on the many interesting contributions that the various peoples in America have made to our societies over the years and, as previously mentioned, it is easy to read.<br />     In short, it is worth reading, but needs to be scrutinized with caution as it frequently overstates the case for &quot;how the Indians of the Americas transformed the world.&quot;  For a far more balanced presentation, I recommend Thomas Sowell's book &quot;Conquests and Cultures&quot;.	2003-04-20
US	52821457	R2W492O2ZXEEIW	0192142313	819179883	The Oxford Companion to the Year: An Exploration of Calendar Customs and Time-Reckoning	Books	5	20	21	N	N	The most thorough calender reference available	This 937 page reference work of calendar customs and time-reckoning is a modern day version of Robert Chambers's &quot;Book of Days&quot; (1864), and is now surely THE definitive reference work on the subject.  For every day of the year (including February 30, which has been observed three times in past calendars, once in Sweden and twice in the Soviet Union), there is a listing of the date (e.g., 25 Abril), the Roman date (e.g., a.d. VII Kalendas Maias), a list of Holidays and Anniversaries (e.g., Australia, New Zealand, Samoa, Tonga: ANZAC Day) or Holy Days (e.g., Mark the Evangelist) or perhaps something from Ancient Rome (e.g., &quot;On this day was held the ceremony for keeping rust off crops, the Robigalia,&quot;).  Moreover, there are usually one or two paragraphs given to explain the origins of various holidays or as biographical background.  Sometimes poems or literary excerpts are inserted to further enliven the entry.  Additionally, a generous amount of humor and bonhomie are sprinkled throughout the text.<br />     Other calendar customs such as the moveable feasts of the western church year, days of the week, Red-Letter days, Dog Days, terms at Oxford or Cambridge, Handsel Monday, Thanksgiving, or the Lord Mayor's Show each have their own entries and explanations.  Part II follows, with investigation into calendars and chronology.  Here the international scope of the book receives greater exposure, with discussion of the Roman Calendar, Chinese Calendar, Egyptian Calendar, Greek Calendar, Hindu Calendar, Jewish Calendar, Muslim Calendar, Anglo-Saxon Calendar, or Celtic Calendar being some of the many discussed.  Explanations of the difference between the Julian and Gregorian calendars, calculating the date of Easter, use of symbolic calendars, as well as many other topics round out a thoroughly researched section.<br />     My only demurring remark about this excellent book is that sometimes the academic writing can be a little dry and murky, drifting into the pedantic, so that at times I found myself nodding off to sleep.  This style of presentation also led to occasional difficulties when trying to understand the discussion at hand.  Nevertheless, on the whole, the book is most interesting.  A great deal of research obviously went into this wonderfully thorough and accurate reference work.  It may be used either as a source for information, or alternatively its daily entries may be read throughout the year as a short daily entertainment.  To sum, it is a book well worth obtaining.	2003-04-12
US	52821457	R1UOYKMVSZK0D4	0465045898	444608423	Migrations And Cultures: A World View	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Readable, thorough, and candid	How does moving from one country to another, or from one continent to another, affect people?  How does it affect the lifestyle of those who move?  Conversely, how does this change the culture of the recipient country?  In his book MIGRATIONS AND CULTURES, Thomas Sowell explores the various answers to these questions by examining the historical changes wrought by migrations amongst six different groups of people: Germans, Japanese, Italians, Chinese, Jews, and Indians (from India, not North America).<br />     By looking at the histories of Germans who migrated to various places in Russia - Baltic, Volga, Black Sea - as well as the differing histories of Germans who migrated to various places in the United States, Brazil, Paraguay, and Australia, he avoids drawing false conclusions that are often made when only one or two particular cases of migration are studied.  Sowell applies this broader historical frame of reference to each of these six groups to better understand cultural phenomena.  For example, Orlando Patterson at Harvard once wrote that the Chinese were prominent in Jamaica for reasons peculiar to Jamaican history.  But by looking at the Chinese in other cultures, one sees they are dominant &quot;middleman minority&quot; in other places as well, ranging from Thailand or the Philippines to Panama City or Lima, Peru.  So that one is forced to conclude that it wasn't something unique to Jamaican history that made Chinese prominent as middlemen, but rather due to something in the culture the people brought with them to China, whether in the form of particular skills or work habits or inclinations and attitudes to life. <br />     After years of exhaustive research, consultation with other scholars, and wide-ranging travels in preparing his trilogy (RACE AND CULTURE, MIGRATIONS AND CULTURES, CONQUESTS AND CULTURES), Sowell concluded, &quot;If there is one pattern that emerges from all these histories it is that each group has its own cultural pattern - and that these patterns do not disappear upon crossing a border or an ocean.&quot;  Some things, such as external cultural manifestations of language or dress, may change far more readily than internal cultural values such as social mores, marital choice, religious practice, propensity to sacrifice and to save earnings, or attitudes towards work, all things which go into that little phrase, &quot;cultural capital&quot;.<br />     Sowell's book is exhaustively researched but not pedantic.  His numerous specific examples for the general statements he puts forth not only make his work readable but reliable as well: in making a point, he backs it up with specific historical examples.  His book is not &quot;light reading&quot; in the way a intriguing novel might be, but it is &quot;sound&quot; reading, enlightening and trustworthy.  I didn't get the feeling Sowell tried to pull the wool over his readers' eyes: he instead attempted to lay out the facts in a coherent, honest fashion.  His conclusions are insightful (and sometimes controversial).  Provided one keeps a pen or pencil in hand to stay attentive to this text, I believe most will find this an enjoyable reading experience.	2003-04-07
US	52821457	R224UZQYA2QXFD	0120848147	9028232	Ecuador and Its Galápagos Islands: The Ecotravellers' Wildlife Guide (Ecotravellers Wildlife Guides)	Books	5	35	36	N	N	Excellent Color Plates with a thorough, yet readable text	A layman needs a good guide when on tour of a new territory, whether that be a museum, a literary genre, or a country's heritage.  In David Pearson's and Les Beletsky's 485 page ECUADOR and its GALAPAGOS ISLANDS, they present a book that is as good a guide as a layman could hope for, not just for exploring Ecuador or its Galapagos Islands, but for getting to know much of the fauna of Amazonian Latin America.  The text is professionally written, yet down to earth and not infrequently humorous.  The famous entomologist J. Henri Fabre once wrote, &quot;Others again have reproached me with my style, which has not the solemnity, nay, better, the dryness of the schools.  They fear lest a page that is read without fatigue should not always be the expression of the truth.  Were I to take their word for it, we are profound only on condition of being obscure.&quot;  This approach to scientific writing - being informative without being pedantic - allows writers like Pearson and Beletsky to fill the reader's heart with wonder while still often bringing a smile to his/her face.<br />     With Ecuador being one of the most biologically diverse countries on earth, it is impossible to create a book that is both comprehensive and brief.  The authors have gone for middle ground, covering the portion of Ecuadorian wildlife that is of interest and/or likely to be spotted by the ecotraveller to Ecuador.  There are 96 color plates (with 5-6 animals illustrated on each one), several pages of color photographs, an excellent chapter - with maps - of Ecuador's National Parks and Bioreserves, a section on Ecuador's geography and habitats (e.g., Lowland Wet Forest, Mangrove and Coastal Vegetation) along with drawings illustrating several major plants in these regions, and 200 pages of animal descriptions under the headings 'Amphibians', 'Reptiles', 'Birds', 'Mammals', 'Insects &amp; Other Arthropods', and 'Galapagos Wildlife'.<br />     As an Ecuadorian resident, I have found this guide to bean excellent aid to identifying and understanding the natural history of the country.  The book was both informative and fun to read, and I can highly recommend it to anyone who wants to know more about this wonderful area of the world.	2002-06-29
US	52821457	RN8R4XR6OGA0E	0970227809	652325660	Jesus and the Religions of Man	Books	3	73	80	N	N	Honest, Fair, Learned, Practical, though just short of great	After carefully working my way through this book, I wanted to give it a five star rating for the following reasons: a)Fairness - the author is not out to bamboozle the reader with sleight-of-hand tricks that act as an apologetic for the Christian faith.  He respects the faiths of others, carefully evaluating both the strengths and weaknesses of his own faith and of others.  b)Insight - His worldview is not that of an ivory tower academic, divorced from the realities of the real world, but a combination of study, travel, rumination, and interaction with many others of differing faiths.  Because of this, he often comes up with insightful commentary and revelatory remarks. e.g. traveling in Taiwan, the author saw how Buddhism and Taoism have both been used to further childhood prostitution, drug abuse, and gang activity.  &quot;Religion does not always increase the stock of the world's justice, mercy, and humility. . . Spirituality is power - a power that has more potential both to save and to harm than any other human force.&quot;  c) Learned - the author has done a lot of reading in the fifteen years spent in the making of this book, and his knowledge base is what one would wish for in someone comparing the world's religions.  d) Discernment - At last: An author who can differentiate between tolerance and truth!  The author is able to acknowledge that which is good in other faiths (tolerance) and yet still talk about Christianity as being the uncompromising fulfillment of that which the other faiths long for (truth).  Truth implies discrimination, and while respecting the beliefs of others, he's not afraid to disagree with their conclusions. e) Documentation - the author doesn't just spout assertions.  He carefully footnotes the information so the reader can look up items if so inclined.  The authorities he cites are widely recognized and accepted in their fields of belief.<br />     However, I refrain from giving this book five stars for three reasons: a) Occasionalincoherency of style (making it difficult to follow his line of reasoning) b) Occasional glossing over of topics or yielding conclusions insufficiently supported by the facts of his case, and c) Inadequacy of addressing the two other great monotheistic faiths, Judaism and Islam.  (This was the biggest limitation of the book.)  A Jew or Muslim asking, &quot;Why should I leave my faith and become a Christian?&quot; could read through this book and feel that this question had not been adequately answered.  <br />     The author covers the oriental faiths and western philosophies with great thoroughness.  (He divides his time between Japan and the U.S. and is well versed in addressing these East/West issues.)  Aboriginal religions of Africa and Australia receive very little discussion, though the apologetics he uses for the oriental faiths do adequately address these aboriginal religions as well.  The coverage given to Islam and Judaism, however, is not really adequate enough to invoke a convincing apologetic.  (These two faiths almost require separate books for dialogue, e.g. Josh McDowell's The Islam Debate, featuring both discussion and a debate with Ahmed Deedat.)  As an afterthought, I would also add that I, too, noticed a surprising frequency of spelling and grammatical errors.  The book needed better proofreading before going to the printing press; but that doesn't affect the quality of the book's arguments.  <br />     I think that Shintoists, Taoists, Buddhists, followers of Confucius, Lao Zi, Marx, or agnostics would find this book challenging and fair.  Those searching for truth will find a fellow pilgrim who is kind enough to shed light on the subject, saying, &quot;I respect the path you are taking up the mountain, but only one road leads all the way to the top.  Come over here and walk along with me.&quot;  I can easily recommend this book to their attention.	2001-05-02
US	52821457	RH5MDCZ25T51N	0970421400	230844280	The Information Inferno	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Great on style, short on substance	This book represents both the best and the worst of what this amazing age of information offers us.  The high praise for the graphics and layout, which the other reviewers on this web page give this book, are justly deserved.  All the &quot;stunning&quot; and &quot;wows&quot; and &quot;magnificent&quot; adjectives are no mere hyperbole but appropriate exclamations for a work that is evocative and visually moving.  The detail and clarity of the artwork (on page after page after page) reveal the hard work and exceptional success Whodini has achieved.  It truly is a book of great beauty. <br />     However, it is also the work of a vulgar, shallow, self-satisfied mind, with the &quot;information&quot; imparted on its pages lacking in insight, judgment, and wisdom.  It is ironic that with the author(s) placing so much stress on soundbytes, brevity, and short texts, this book itself runs to nearly 300 pages.  Time and again, the author preaches the philosophy that simpler is better, faster is superior, and brevity is better than the lengthy.  With this worldview, Homer is dismissed, Milton's Paradise Lost is trashed, Charles Dickens isn't worth the trouble to read (&quot;Dickens is a dead donkey&quot; and &quot;Dickens makes a lovely corpse&quot; are two of the milder quotes given), Dante's Divine Comedy is outdated, and listed in &quot;The Constipation Club&quot; are, among others, Anna Karenina, War and Peace, Don Quixote, Moby Dick, and The Brothers Karamazov.  Rather than pouring over sacred texts to slowly meditate and digest what they can only give through slow, careful, repeated readings, readers are encouraged to look for &quot;soundbytes&quot;, parcels of information.  &quot;The most influential and admired books of the Bible are the shortest: Ecclesiastes, Psalms, Proverbs, The Gospels&quot; he says, as though the CONTENT of these books, especially the gospels, had little to do with their influence!  Here again, he says, &quot;The Analects of Confucius, among the most sacred and influential books in Chinese history, is less than 500 soundbytes.&quot;  Are the Analects truly enduring through thousands of years because they can be broken into relatively few soundbytes?!  The impudence of these assertions takes our breath away.<br />     The crass language employed (as though obscenities somehow increased the power of the book's message) isn't nearly as foolish as the advice given.  In short, this book is magnificent on image, but wanting in substance.	2001-05-02
US	52821457	RGT5P8FV5XMJ	0802113869	283702839	The Kings and Queens of England and Scotland	Books	5	36	36	N	N	Excellent British Royalty Review	I have now read through this book twice - once before each of my trips to Great Britain - and have found this book to be immensely helpful in understanding Britain's past and present.  The book purports to be about the British monarchy, but in addition to thoroughly covering royalty, this book also covers a fair amount of history so the reader has some feel for the cultural setting of the monarchs as well.  There are numerous color illustrations and photographs throughout the text, finely placed, and quite instructive.  Each monarch has typically 2-4 pages devoted to their reign, with important dates and events set out in an easy to consult style.  Some attempt is made to evaluate the strengths and weaknesses of each ruler and to assess how the British peoples fared under their guidance.  In general, the presentation is fair-minded, following Shakespeare's dictum to comment on each ruler as s/he appeared, &quot;nothing extenuant, nor aught set down in malice.&quot;<br />  There are periodically pages devoted to related topics such as the origins of Parliament, the Magna Carta, Chivalrous Orders (such as the Order of the Garter), War of the Roses, coronation of the Prince of Wales, castle construction (explaining terms like motte and bailey), or Empire Building.  Events such as the 1381 Peasants Revolt, the 1666 Fire of London, or the Great Exhibition of 1851 (sharing scientific advancements from the Industrial Revolution) are richly illustrated, with commentary provided to explain their significance.<br />  The Kings of Scotland are discussed separately, with historical figures like Robert the Bruce or William Wallace being treated in the narratives.  Eventually, the Scottish and English/Welch monarchies converged with with the coronation of James I in 1603.<br />  In all, Plantagenet Somerset Fry has done an absolutely first rate job of creating an introductory book on the British Monarchy.  I found it quite helpful in keeping things straight in my mind (e.g. keeping all the Edward's and Henry's and George's distinct.)  It is an excellent book to read either for pleasure, for instruction, or for historical guidance while touring the British Isles..g. keeping all the Edward's and Henry's and George's distinct.)  It is an excellent book to read either for pleasure, for instruction, or for historical guidance while touring the British Isles.	2001-03-24
US	52821457	RIRGVNI3GWCUI	0195002105	394744637	The Idea of the Holy	Books	5	196	202	N	N	A Classic worth reading	C.S. Lewis once wrote, &quot;I believe that many who find that 'nothing happens' when they sit down, or kneel down, to a book of devotion, would find that the heart sings unbidden while they are working their way through a tough bit of theology with a pipe in their teeth and a pencil in their hand.&quot;  This pronouncement applies to Rudolf Otto's classic The Idea of the Holy (which Lewis had read.)  This book explores the esoteric and ineffable, and is best approached with a pen or pencil in hand to underline passages and write in the margins.  It is not a lengthy book (less than 200 pages in the edition I own) but chewing the sinewy theology takes some work to digest.<br />     Traditional theology has usually concerned itself with doctrine, with focus on the rational aspects of God.  Otto, following the tradition of mystics, gave careful consideration to an oft-neglected aspect of theology: the non-rational aspects of God.  In doing so, he coined the word &quot;numinous&quot; to depict that which transcends or eludes comprehension in rational terms.  It suggests that which is holy, awesome, and 'wholly other.'  He also applies the expression &quot;mysterium tremendum&quot; to the numinous, describing that which is hidden, esoteric, beyond conception or understanding, awe-inspiring, fear-instilling or uncanny, an absolute overpoweringness of an ineffable transcendent Reality.  <br />     Otto illustrates his concepts with scripture passages such as Isaiah 6, where the vision of the Lord and his robe filled the temple.  God's holiness overwhelmed Isaiah, who cried, &quot;Woe is me, for I am ruined!  Because I am a man of unclean lips, and I live among a people of unclean lips.&quot;  Other illustrations include the feeling of the numinous evoked by Bach's Mass in B minor, the 'Popule meus' of Thomas Luiz, or the contrast of light and darkness found in cathedrals or forest glades.  Most helpful to me was his analysis of the book of Job, showing how God's answer toJob about the mystery of suffering demonstrates the numinous in the character of God.  Otto seems, for the first time in my reading experience, to give helpful insight for why Job never received a direct answer to his questions about suffering.<br />     Otto's terse classic has unfortunately been largely forgotten.  I hope that it sees a revival in its readership, for it deserves to be studied and discussed with each new generation of readers.	2001-03-16
US	52821457	R1XQJ1GZ7ENAML	0890661413	855420991	A Foreign Devil in China: The Story of Dr. L. Nelson Bell	Books	4	11	15	N	N	A good biography of an industrious man	John Pollock's biography of Dr. Nelson Bell is well researched and written in straightforward, easily understood prose.  Dr. Bell led an unusually active life, being a missionary physician in China in the 1920s and 1930s when war, thieving, highway robbery, murder, and corruption were pervasive.  Despite this, Dr. Bell and his wife managed to rear a family, expand the services of the hospital where they worked, make many friends, and give health care to many in need.  As a surgeon, Dr. Bell operated on a variety of ailments, but it was the spiritual ills of the people that ultimately concerned him the most.  War and ill health forced Dr. Bell to finish his medical career in North Carolina, where his daughter Ruth resided with husband Billy Graham (the evangelist) and where he, along with Graham, founded the magazine Christianity Today.  He lived a long and highly productive life, and Pollock's rendering of it is done with engaging diplomacy.	2001-03-16
US	52821457	R1KFYQ0JB2AOD5	0813114454	626794734	Jefferson Davis Gets His Citizenship Back	Books	4	13	14	N	N	An Easy Read	Best known as the author of All the King's Men, Robert Penn Warren wrote this short (114 pages) book after Confederate President Jefferson Davis had his U.S. citizenship restored in 1979 during the Carter Administration, some nine decades after Davis's death.  When this took place, Warren returned home to Todd County, Kentucky for a ceremony honoring Davis's posthumous reinstatement.  As it turns out, Jefferson Davis, like Warren, was also a native of Todd County, and this book is Warren's memoir, a reflection on the ironic, sometimes sad life of the only president the Confederacy ever had.  This rumination was so engaging I couldn't put it down. I read it in one sitting, captivated by the quality of story-telling and the poignant southern nostalgia it evoked.	2001-03-08
US	52821457	R2C0GDLO56ZM4F	0140248307	667558266	The Cunning Man	Books	5	6	8	N	N	An Unusual Yarn Well Told	Robertson Davies remains far and away my favorite novelist.  After reading this book, I was sorry that he was no longer around to continue putting out such entertaining work.  Some people, even otherwise enthusiastic Davies fans, don't care much for this book.  As a physician, perhaps this biased me in the book's favor, but I thought this the most enjoyable book I read in 2000.  I've read all of Davies novels and would rank this high among them.  The story never sagged, the characters were of the usual fascinating Davies' variety, and his humor had me laughing aloud again and again.<br />     Davies' narrator is Dr. Jonathan Hullah, a physician of unusual diagnostic skills and adroit healing powers.  He is known as the cunning man, a term hearkening back to English village life in which a sort of village know-all could do a little of everything, from setting broken bones to doctoring horses.  He was the wizard of folk tradition, the cunning man.  The Cunning Man is Dr. Hullah's fascinating reminiscence of life, from boyhood apprenticeship with an old Indian healer to his service in the medical corps during World War II, then on to his unusual medical practice (which included such orthodox measures as having his patients strip off their clothes and lay on an exam table while he sniffed them.)  Hullah narrates this while at the same time conducting a search into the mysterious death of his parish priest while saying mass.  This combination memoir/mystery novel was, as I said earlier, the most pleasurable book I read in 2000.  If the chief end of a novel is entertainment, then this book succeeded admirably.	2001-03-08
US	52821457	R2N2C9TU1TNGPQ	0310235316	337454298	Reaching for the Invisible God	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A fellow pilgrim shares his experiences	Faith is not easy when it concerns trying to believe in something or someone whom you are never completely certain is really there.  Through stories, illustrations, reflections, and biblical investigation, this book works through some of the problems and solutions Yancey and others have found in trying to come to grips with a real, lasting Christian faith.  This is not a book of systematic theology or one that struggles with the thorny issues of textual criticism or canonization.  Yancey is aware of these problematic areas, but purposefully limits his work to a Christian's existential angst involved in a life of belief, doubt, and faith in God.  My favorite illustration was Yancey's driving down the Colorado highway at night; out of the blackness he suddenly saw Pike's Peak off in the distance as fireworks lit up the mountain.  Pike's Peak had always been there, but the fireworks made the invisible become visible.  Yancey draws the parallel with the spiritual world, citing the Genesis account of Jacob's encounter with God at Bethel, exclaiming afterwards that surely the presence of the Lord was in that place and he did not know it.  So, too, the divine is present in our world - yet we often don't detect it.  Don't expect an orderly, confident chapter-to-chapter traducing of religious doubt.  This book is a meandering musing on faith, an honest conversation from someone who claims no more than that he is a fellow pilgrim making a spiritual journey.	2001-03-08
US	52821457	R264BZL8Q53A9Y	0140275622	53891103	Happy Alchemy: On the Pleasures of Music and the Theatre	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Interesting for a Davies' fan	Although I'm not a big theatre fan, I do enjoy reading Robertson Davies.  He is one of two writers whose work I will read even when the subject is not up my alley; so when C.S. Lewis writes about Medieval English Literature or Robertson Davies writes about the theatre, I still read them.  It brings me great pleasure to experience their writers' craftsmanship and I know I will learn something.  (I also know I'm going to enjoy their humor.)  Happy Alchemy's subtitle reads, &quot;On the Pleasures of Music and the Theatre&quot;, and this work present 33 Davies pieces, including &quot;Lewis Carroll in the Theatre&quot;, &quot;Opera for the Man Who Reads Hamlet&quot;, &quot;Dickens and Music&quot;, &quot;How I Write a Book&quot;, and the humorously self-depreciating &quot;My Musical Career.&quot;  Happy Alchemy shares many fine insights about humanity while also providing many historical and literary lessons for the reader.  To read Davies (or Lewis) is to expand one's view of the world.	2001-03-08
US	52821457	R3N3U2UF0FE968	0312241208	713833264	Danger Stalks the Land: Alaskan Tales of Death and Survival	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Good for reading at bedtime or while camping	Alaska, despite its many cities and roads, is still a land with large vistas of wild, untamed territory.  Kaniut's book is a collection of several dozen Alaskan tales of death and survival, ranging from plane crashes in poor weather to bear attacks, climbing accidents, entrapment in mudflats as the tidewater poured in, winter stranding on ice floes, badger mauling, frostbite on hunting forays gone wrong, and many other true dramas.  While the book is rather limited in its straightforward, no-nonsense approach (one could, without being disrespectful, call the style prosaic), it does make for good bedtime reading before drifting off to sleep.  The wildness of nature that demonstrates the numinous aspect of God's creation in the last few chapters of Job can be seen in these stories, reminding us that man is not the master of everything he surveys.  Nature is wild, dangerous, and commands attention and respect.  Ignore this and you might die or be severely crippled (as some of these stories demonstrate.)  Overall, this was not a great book, but a good one, a decent selection to take along on a camping trip.	2001-03-08
US	52821457	RM83TW4S6OC3H	0385239548	651042649	Trail of Tears: The Rise and Fall of the Cherokee Nation	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A Balanced Cherokee History	Until Sequoyah's praiseworthy invention of the Cherokee Syllabary in the early 19th century, Cherokee history - like other Native American tribes - was orally transmitted, with only a small fraction of the past preserved for posterity.  Most of what was preserved were customs, traditions, and societal ways of life.  Ehle's book attempts to give the reader a feel for what Cherokee life was like down through the centuries, describing the food, the houses, the matriarchal structure of society, the athletic contests, and many other aspects of their existence.  He even comments on the outdated, yet amusingly mistaken notion that the Cherokees were one of the lost tribes of Israel.  From this reconstructed general history of the past, he moves into the era of written history, eventually arriving at the famous saga of the Trail of Tears in the late 1830s.  He researched his work thoroughly and tried to give a balanced approach by voicing alternative viewpoints, avoiding the overly simplistic &quot;poor red man/bad white man&quot; impression that seems to be so politically popular nowadays.  What the reader will find is that there were both scoundrels and heroes among both whites and Cherokees.  Sadly, when one speaks of victims, most of them seem to be the average Cherokee family (and some Caucasian missionaries).  Indian life was slowly and inexorably subsumed by overwhelming numbers of Caucasian settlers, forcing the Indians to give up their lands, possessions, and livelihood to the very people they were trying to emulate.  (This emulation included among other things farming methods, a bicameral government, newspaper production, clothing styles, housing architecture, and in many cases the Christian religion.) <br />     The events leading up to the Trail of Tears were complex, and while the Cherokees were in agreement about wanting to keep their lands, they were divided over means for preserving this; hence the John Ross versus Major Ridge faction.  Ehle's telling of this long and disheartening story does make the people of Georgia, President Andrew Jackson, and John Ross seem like scoundrels.  Many Cherokees and white Americans acted dishonorably, but the picture painted by Ehle makes these three parties' abominable practices seem inexcusable.  How accurate Ehle's portrait is can be decided by the reader.  (It didn't seem too distorted to me.)<br />     In places, Ehle switches his prose from third person narrative to first person viewpoints.  This makes the text a little uneven, but not therefore difficult to follow.  Overall, I give this book high marks for reconstruction of pre-historical Cherokee life and a balanced presentation of the triumph and tragedies of the Cherokee nation up through the Trail of Tears.  (He also gives, in an epilogue, some updates on what has happened to some of the Cherokees since the Trail of Tears, explaining, for example, the roots of formation for what is now Cherokee, North Carolina.)	2001-03-08
US	52821457	R23DE5O0WWSYHJ	0679725806	983562153	The Question of Hu	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A finely crafted story	The Question of Hu is historian Jonathan Spence's reconstruction of the real-life saga concerning a Chinese man named Hu.  In the 1720s, Hu traveled to France as an employed servant of his Jesuit master, Jean Francois Focquet, who later renders his accounts of Hu into writing.  Hu began to exhibit strange behavior on the ship's voyage to France, demonstrating an alarming incorrigibility that escalated after his arrival in Europe.  Becoming unmanageable, he was thrown into an insane asylum for two years.  Why?  What happened to put a previously normal appearing man in the madhouse?  And why was he later released to return to China as a respectable man, compensated monetarily for what he perceived as a great injustice?  Spence tells Hu's story with an engaging, entertaining, and intriguing touch.  This fairly short book is easy to read, a good story that will hold a reader's interest.	2001-03-08
US	52821457	R31PVNBHOARRIQ	0785269053	652593388	The Stamp of Glory: A Novel of the Abolitionist Movement	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Good, but not great, historical fiction	The Stamp of Glory is Tim Stafford's finely researched novel about the abolitionist movement in America, covering the years 1824-1863.  Starting with the startling portrait of slavery in the deep South, Stafford traces the lives of those in the Nichols family, along the way painting a fine historical portrait of the issues, divisions, fights (verbal or - as in the case of John Brown and his sons - physical), events (such as the slave revolt led by Nat Turner), prominent people (like Garrison, the Tappans, or Frederic Douglas), and victories of slavery abolition in 19th century America.  The bonus of this book is that it is a novel - read for entertainment - yet the reader receives history lessons for free.  Stafford obviously did his homework for this and the result is a realistic rendering of abolition in America.  Chapter titles contain topics and dates to help keep the reader oriented.  Stafford's work allows the reader to feel that s/he is sharing in the experience.	2001-03-08
US	52821457	R1AU3Y2HHGJRDA	014027586X	47443390	The Merry Heart: Reflections on Reading Writing, and the World of Books	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Reflections on reading, writing, and the world of books	It is usually a pleasure to sit down to a Robertson Davies work whether it be a novel, a collection of speeches, ghost stories, essays, or newspaper articles.  The Merry Heart is a felicitous adddition to the Davies canon,  containing his usual eclectic selection of literary topics and sparkling  ideas.  Each chapter has a few introductory comments (often including  excerpts from Davies' diary) by the book's editors that paint the  background for each piece.  Readers enjoy comparing notes about favorite  books and biographical history, so for avid readers, The Merry Heart will  be like reading a series of letters from a funny, witty, learned friend  about some of those events and books that have shaped his life.  This fine  385 page book of 24 chapters is easy to read in bits and pieces, either  during a lunch break, before bed, or on a weekend next to the fire.  (One  note of caution: for those unfamiliar with Davies' worldview, do not be  surprised to see elements of gnosticism popping up from time to time.)  All  in all, this book was a real pleasure to read.	2000-05-15
US	52821457	R3SLVUL0C06FW8	0140233725	370394725	The Book of Guys	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Some stories are terrific, some are pointless	My first foray into the reading world of Garrison Keillor was The Book of Guys.  It consists of 22 stories that reflect an impressive amount of learning and language skills combined with a curious imagination.  My  favorite of the set was the opening chapter address to the National  Federation of Associations convention.  Keillor's spoofs on the age old  battle of the sexes takes on smashingly funny proportions in this piece,  from the description of his attendance at the Sons of Bernie drunken orgy  of song and self-pity around a campfire in the freezing cold of winter to   comments about his high school poetic aspirations, including such numbers  as 'Soliloquies for Stringless Guitars'.<br />     The Mid-life Crisis of  Dionysusm, Buddy the Leper, Marooned, Don Giovanni, Earl Grey, and Casey at  the Bat (Road Game) were other stories I thought both humorous and  inventive, not to mention insightful in their comments about human nature.   On the other hand, many of the stories were crafty but without direction.   I finished several thinking, &quot;What was the point of that?&quot;   You  might want to read through a few of these stories while browsing through  the book before deciding whether or not you want to purchase it.	2000-05-15
US	52821457	R8F4117FR37Q9	0393317552	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	5	25	39	N	N	Fascinating and Thought Provoking	In his preface to the paperback edition, Jared Diamond boldly states, &quot;This book attempts to provide a short history of everybody for the last 13,000 years.&quot;  Following this startling statement, he writes,  &quot;The question motivating the book is: Why did history unfold  differently on different continents?&quot;  Keeping these two aims in mind  is quite helpful while reading through the book, and I found that while  Diamond certainly can't answer all the questions (he doesn't even attempt  this), he does suggest many plausible explanations for why history has  unfolded like it has (such as advantages of geography, fertility,  agriculture vs. hunter-gathering societies, east-west vs. north-south  spread of technology and crops etc.)  For a different approach that  emphasizes culture and economic explanations, try reading David Landes' The  Wealth and Poverty of Nations in conjunction with this book.<br />     Among  the many things I liked about this book were the following:  it is  extensively researched (as one might expect from a UCLA physiology  professor), the style is easy to follow, it is full of photographs, tables,  and maps (I'm a big believer that &quot;a picture is worth a thousand  words&quot;), and his questions and search for answers are fair minded.   Diamond himself would not insist that this book is the  &quot;definitive&quot; explanation for our existence, but an attempt to  help put pieces of the puzzle together in a coherent fashion (including the  often ignored &quot;prehistorical&quot; period that really set the stage  for how things turned out in the &quot;historical&quot; period.)  This is a  splendid book.	2000-05-15
US	52821457	RAA2MOB9FLPHT	0802815782	742246891	Taliessin through Logres, The Region of the Summer Stars, and Arthurian Torso	Books	3	28	37	N	N	Bad Poetry but Great Commentary	This book comes in four parts 1)Taliessin through Logres (collection of Charles Williams' poems about the Arthurian saga as seen through the eyes of the court poet Taliessin) 2)The Region of the Summer Stars (more of  Williams' poems about the Holy Grail) 3)Arthurian Torso, consisting of a)  Charles Williams prose work on the history of the Grail/Arthurian legend,  entitled The Figure of Arthur, and b)C.S. Lewis's commentary on Williams'  poetry, entitled Williams and the Arthuriad.  A fine introduction by Mary  McDermott Shideler accompanies the Eerdmans edition of this work.<br />     I  found Arthurian Torso to be the best part of the book by far.  By itself,  it deserves a five star rating.  Williams traces the fascinating history of  the Grail with the legend of King Arthur and the Round Table using a  combination of scholarly acumen and lucid tutorial explanations.  In other  words, it is both accurate and understandable.  Lewis, in turn, adds  insightful commentary about both the Arthurian saga and Williams' poems on  the subject.  Lewis's wisdom and lucid prose are as delightful to read on  this matter as they are about other subjects he tackled.<br />      Unfortunately, I think the poetry will appeal to very few people.  I give  it a one star quality (which, when combined with the five star quality of  the Arthurian Torso give the book an overall rank of three.)  Even C.S.  Lewis admits that Williams' biggest fault is his obscurity.  (There are  times when even such a scholar as Lewis - who not only loved the Arthurian  legend, who adored poetry, and who had discussed this poetry at length with  Williams himself - found himself puzzled by parts of it, describing parts  of it as &quot;cryptic&quot;, or saying &quot;I end in doubts&quot; or  &quot;There are things in this piece which I do not understand.&quot;)  <br />      I was unmoved by this poetry.  It was like trying to read something in  an unfamiliar language - no meaning was conveyed.<br />     So all in all,  this book receives a mixed review.  If the Arthurian legend interests you,  then this work is worth obtaining, simply for the Arthurian Torso section  of it.  If you get anything out of the poetry, it will be a bonus.	2000-04-04
US	52821457	R2CKRJPGZXVCTI	1566397162	310747089	Sudden Death and the Myth of CPR	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A Candid Appraisal of CPR in America	Of the roughly 400,000 &quot;sudden deaths&quot; in the United States each year, only about 1-3% of those undergoing CPR outside the hospital survive.  This low figure of survival is accompanied by a high price tag, both  economically and emotionally.  Timmermans takes a candid look at CPR,  exposing its myths and problematic areas, and I found his book historically  well researched and balanced.  I do have some reservations about some of  the misleading statements he makes in chapter 5, especially his mistake of  treating 'social inequality' as a synonym for 'unjust', accompanied by the  false implication that social value affects survival during a hospital  resuscitation effort.        On the whole, however, he does a fine job and  his extensive historical research and interviews with health care workers  make this a fine book.  It serves as an excellent antidote to the overly  optimistic expectations generated by TV shows and CPR training courses.	2000-02-03
US	52821457	RXHVJGEHYFW04	0801860342	552855786	The Primeval Forest : Including on the Edge of the Primeval Forest ; And, More from the Primeval Forest (The Albert Schweitzer Library)	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Candid and well written	This book will have most of its appeal to those with interest in medicine, missionary work, or anthropology.  It consists of Schweitzer's medical case histories, travels, hospital administrative chores, reflections on African and European culture, and general overview of his first decade and a half in Gabon on the west coast of Africa.  Schweitzer's candid comments about the Africans and the harsh conditions under which he worked help make this book better than the average account of third world philanthropic endeavors.  Schweitzer shows true insight and compassion for those he came to help and I found the book highly engaging.	1999-10-02
US	52821457	R1JDKYYEZXF1PM	0310228344	64463183	The Bible Jesus Read	Books	3	48	55	N	N	Faulty in spots, helpful in others	I have enjoyed reading Philip Yancey's books over the years, but this is not one of his better ones.  Like others, I feel the chapter on Deuteronomy is melodramatic and erroneous (not to mention boring.)  Although the title  is &quot;The Bible Jesus Read&quot;, this is not a scholarly attempt to  discuss the Hebrew or Greek scriptures available to Jesus during his  lifetime, and only selected sections of the Old Testament are examined.       On the other hand, the chapters on the Psalms, Ecclesiastes and the  Prophets are sparkling with helpful literary allusions, exegesis, and  insight.  They achieve the author's goal of making the Old Testament a  little easier to understand for the general reader.      If you haven't  read a Philip Yancey book before, try one of the others first, such as The  Gift of Pain, Where is God When it Hurts, or Fearfully and Wonderfully  Made.  If you have wanted to do more reading of the scriptures (either for  literary or spiritual purposes) and need some helpful guides, this book -  along with the NIV Student Bible compiled by Philip Yancey and Tim Stafford  - will be a good companion.	1999-10-02
US	52821457	R6LKB5DKJWMQN	0553257994	372934503	The Frontiersmen (Narratives of America series, Book 1)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	History as easy to read as a novel	Perhaps Allan Eckert did give an innacurate rendering of some of the people or events in this book, but by and large, Eckert's work is historically correct.  Moreover, he captures the flavor of what life was  like - the danger, harsh conditions, and constant threat of death - in the  Northwest Territory during the last half of the 18th century.  The  &quot;birth of America&quot; was far more complex than the simple  &quot;breaking away from the British&quot; version I learned in school, and  Eckert's evenhanded treatment of the Indians, white settlers, French, and  English opened my eyes to the way our nation was created.  Eckert's style  is engaging, the chapters are short (which help make the book easy to  read), the characters are vivid, and the stories are fascinating.	1999-06-13
US	52821457	R1HK2L0CVJ0IX6	0446674729	774235269	Judith's Pavilion: The Haunting Memories of a Neurosurgeon	Books	2	19	20	N	N	Failed to interest me	As a surgeon who enjoys the writings of other physicians, I was disappointed with Judith's Pavilion.  His metaphors and analogies are frequently a bit far fetched.  The writing lacks coherence while his stream  of consciousness makes the prose difficult to read.  The author rarely  points to anything profound or intriguing, though he does write with  conviction.      There are plenty of other reflective books about medicine  that would be better to sample than Judith's Pavilion.  If this genre  interests you, try something by one of these physicians: Paul Brand (The  Gift of Pain, Fearfully and Wonderfully Made), Oliver Sacks (The Man Who  Mistook His Wife for a Hat, Awakenings), Lewis Thomas (The Lives of a Cell,  The Youngest Science), Richard Selzer (Mortal Lessons, Letters to a Young  Doctor), David Graham (Thoughts Along the Way), Harold Klawans (Toscanini's  Fumble, Newton's Madness), or Sherwin Nuland (The Wisdom of the Body).	1999-06-08
US	52821457	R1L77Z8QJJW9MN	0156003996	835626799	Letters to a Young Doctor (Harvest Book)	Books	3	26	29	N	N	Good but not great.  Score: 7	Under the old Amazon.com ranking system, I would give this book a seven on a ten point scale.  As a fellow surgeon who enjoys Selzer's writings, I thought this was a good, yet not great collection of ruminations.  Some of  the chapters were quite touching, some were funny, and some were quite  plain.  A few actually suffered from Selzer's exuberant imagination as he  tried to stuff meaning and metaphor into patients' stories that didn't fit.  Taking it all together, I'm glad I bought it, but I liked his book Mortal  Lessons much better.	1999-05-27
US	52821457	R1GF7DZ2TKKS4Z	0156004003	53409060	Mortal Lessons: Notes on the Art of Surgery	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Inspires both awe and laughter	As a fellow surgeon with a love for literature and the marvels of the human body, I found Dr. Selzer's book tickled both my fancy and my funnybone.  He is enthusiastic for sharing his reverence at the amazing  complexity and function of our bodies (as well as its grievous  shortcomings), yet he is still able to regale the reader with mischievous  humor and steady doses of comic relief.  I found this one of the funniest  books I had read in several years.      Many of the chapters in the last  half of the book are not, as the subtitle would suggest, 'notes on the art  of surgery'.  They deal with things as different as bird watching,  abortion, smoking, car sickness, and childhood memories from the classroom.   Although they do not supplement the first half of the book with further  descriptions about the art of surgery, they do add spice to an already  meaty book about ourselves.	1999-05-26
US	52821457	R8HKFCS0M1EWS	1890626082	318414130	C.S. Lewis: Memories and Reflections	Books	2	12	12	N	N	Didn't spark my interest	If you happen to have a copy of the out of print book LIGHT ON C.S. LEWIS, you have basically all the comments that Lawlor has to give about his memories of the man. As for the commentary Lawlor gives on Lewis's books, I  found it uneven.  Unlike the lucid Lewis, Lawlor's sentences are often  murky and their meanings difficult to understand.  His commentaries on  Lewis's books didn't really enlighten anything.  I have been an avid reader  of Lewis for a long time, and this is the first time I bought a book about  Lewis in which  I returned to the bookstore for a refund when I was  finished.	1999-05-24
US	52821457	R8OAE7A7YGMW3	006063880X	535012118	C. S. Lewis: A Complete Guide to His Life & Works	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Not just &quot;another Lewis book&quot;	Having read a great deal of work by and about C.S. Lewis over the last decade, I was surprised by how much I learned from Walter Hooper's superb volume.  Hooper looked for information about Lewis from several obscure  periodicals to add to his already rich knowledge of Lewisiana, and the  rewards are apparent in the brief biography he writes about Lewis, the  contemporary book reviews about Lewis's works, and the &quot;Who's  Who&quot; and &quot;What's What&quot; sections.  I found Hooper's  explanatory chapters on Lewis's academic works especially helpful for  understanding what Lewis was saying in such literary works  as THE  DISCARDED IMAGE, ENGLISH LITERATURE IN THE 16th CENTURY, and PREFACE TO  PARADISE LOST, and his chapters on the fiction and theology of C.S. Lewis  are no less erudite and helpful.  Whether you have never read anything by  Lewis or have read every Lewis title you can get your hands on, C.S. Lewis:  COMPANION AND GUIDE will be an entertaining and helpful aid.	1999-05-18
US	52821457	R2SNKYUV24F6OU	0684853949	358452686	The Man Who Mistook His Wife For A Hat: And Other Clinical Tales	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fascinating and easy to read	If you have not read any of Oliver Sacks' books, this is probably the best place to start.  This collection of 24 clinical case histories is written so as to be of interest to both lay and informed readers alike.  Without  espousing a particular philosophical or metaphysical viewpoint, Sacks'  subjects and his commentary force the inquiring reader to ask some of the  great, probing questions about our existence.  With a perceptive, critical  eye for clinical observation and a widely read store of medical knowledge,  Sacks writes with true compassion for his patients.  Sacks thus shows how  both the science and art of medicine should come together in the best  tradition of medical practice.	1999-05-04
US	52821457	R10UJS19VAEAQV	0684853957	759385512	A Leg to Stand On	Books	5	48	50	N	N	A neurological short story of disembodiment	In this the most personal of all his books, neurologist Oliver Sacks tells the story of an injury he sustained while climbing a mountain in Norway and the terrifying, bizarre aftermath when he realized with horror that his leg  felt alienated.  It did not feel like it was part of his body, but a  foreign object somehow attached to him.  This sort of disembodiment, with  alterations in the mind-body image that affected Sacks deeply, was as  confusing as it was frightening.  When he finally recovered, he experienced  unbounded joy and a new wonder for being properly &quot;oriented&quot; to  his body.  With insight, learning, and an unusually unbuttoned metaphysical  self-revelation in which he discusses his religious background and doubts,  Sacks shows how the soul is stirred by the changes in the body.<br />     This  is an eminently readable book, free from the conglomeration of footnotes  and asides that accompany most of Sacks' other books.  I read it in one  day, fascinated and entertained throughout the reading.  Besides being an  autobiographical, neurological novel, this book also explores what it is  like for the physician to become a patient, how experiencing something  firsthand can change the way a physician views and practices medicine, and  how the mind-body image so strongly affects our worldviews.	1999-05-04
US	52821457	R2Z3Y75N6IE369	0679742263	786028412	The Moon by Whale Light: And Other Adventures Among Bats, Penguins, Crocodilians, and Whales	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A keen observer with a poetic eye	Diane Ackerman's sharp observations, poetic descriptions, reflective commentary, and search for knowledge make this an enjoyable reading experience.  My favorite piece was the one on bats, with their amazing  echolocating screams, biological helpfulness for making many plants  survive, and intriguing wing designs.  Ackerman does a good job of  dispelling many horror stories about bats, showing how they have gotten a  bad rap over the years.  Her article on crocodiles was also enthusiastic  and winsome.  I thought the whale essay was a little slow and monotonous in  parts, otherwise I would give this book a five star rating.  Definitely a  good book to read by the fire or relax with at the beach.	1998-11-27
US	52821457	R1EFGFD738JENP	0060162562	182851330	Newton's Madness: Further Tales of Clinical Neurology	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Intriguing neurological case studies	Dr. Klawans articulately presents several more neurological case studies in this follow-up book to Toscanini's Fumble.  Not all of them involve his own patients - some discuss historical figures such as Isaac Newton or the  biblical figure of Joshua.  Dr. Klawans' thorough studies and insightful  commentary make this enjoyable reading for medical professionals and laymen  alike.  I think it slightly better than Toscanini's Fumble, even though  both are occasionally given to hubris and a little too much self-certainty.   The chapters are not too long and the writing is crisp, so this would make  a good Christmas or birthday present.	1998-11-02
US	52821457	R35VQLJGZB9K30	0809247275	911996732	Toscanini's Fumble: And Other Tales of Clinical Neurology	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Good Neurological Sleuthing	Toscanini's Fumble is a book of a dozen and a half case histories coming  from the files of an eminent American neurologist, Harold Klawans.  They  are written in layman's language, with difficult words and concepts defined  and explained.  Even so, those in the medical field will find the stories  far from juvenile and quite rich in detail, spiced with references to  Klawans' favorite baseball players and musicians.  Included in the  collection are interesting historical vignettes, including one about the  3rd century Roman emperor Maximinus I.  The title of the book comes from  the chapter devoted to the neurological condition that caused famous  symphony conductor Arturo Toscanini to drop his baton while leading the NBC  Symphany Orchestra during a performance of Wagner in 1954.  (He was never  to conduct again.)  I give this book a 9 on a 10 point scale.  It was  enjoyable reading and easy to follow.	1998-10-12
US	52821457	R1D9NR9JPJ3R3	0898704448	236877231	The Everlasting Man	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Somewhat verbose, but excellent	I once heard that G.K. Chesterton's method of composition consisted of  reading several books on a subject, then dictating his thoughts aloud to  his secretary.  Such a modus operandi, if true, would explain why  Chesterton's works are sometimes a bit wordy, as though no one had edited  them to prune the excess verbiage.  The Everlasting Man is a loquacious  monologue where the style is occasionally irritating, but if you can look  past this minor shortcoming, The Everlasting Man is an outstanding  apologetic for Christianity.  It is a pleasure to recommend this book for  consideration, because Chesterton had a real knack for revealing the truth  in a surprising and often paradoxical method.  His books are not  &quot;dry&quot;, but lively, full of wit, fun, good humor, and fine  reasoning.  C.S. Lewis thought highly of The Everlasting Man, and after  reading it, I can understand why.	1998-09-30
US	52821457	R3SSXUI45W2V70	0842351159	198671323	The Quotable Lewis	Books	4	27	28	N	N	A fine resource	This book is a fine resource for looking up Lewis quotes or for thumbing  through to read Lewis in a different light.  The quotes are grouped  alphabetically by topic (e.g. &quot;courage&quot;, &quot;experience&quot;,  &quot;joy&quot;, &quot;Macdonald&quot;, or &quot;Middle Ages&quot;), being  culled from the academic and popular works alike.  Lewis enthusiasts (or  pastors or priests or rabbis looking for material for their sermons) would  do well to invest a few dollars and purchase this book.  It comes equipped  with a preface &amp; introduction, bibliography, a helpful index, and  several pages of pictures.	1998-09-24
US	52821457	RQY44FDT7OD7Z	0060159456	430117027	Extraordinary People: Understanding "Idiot Savants"	Books	4	12	13	N	N	A Sympathetic Book About a Fascinating Subject	FINALLY, someone wrote a book about &quot;idiot savants&quot;, those  paradoxical folks who are autistic, mentally retarded, yet profoundly  gifted in one area such as art, mathematics, or music.  Treffert has pulled  together the isolated reports about the 100 or so people over the past  century who have had this Savant Syndrome and engagingly discusses both  their case histories and the theories about why they are who they are.   Whether talking about Charles and George - who can tell you what day of the  week Easter will fall on over an 80,000 year time span or what the weather  was like every single day of their lives after age 4, despite the fact they  are both retarded and cannot do simple arithmetic -  to Leslie who is  blind, mentally retarded, and has cerebral palsy, but who without any  formal musical training can play a piece like Tchaikovsky's Piano Concerto  No. 1 perfectly after only one hearing, these people are as fascinating as  they are limited.<br />     Darold A. Treffert, M.D. is a psychiatrist whose  first hand dealings with several savants and interest in the matter have  helped him produce a fine book.  It is 291 pages long and if you are  willing to patiently work your way through it (it's not the kind of book  that lends itself to being read in one sitting), I hope you will feel as  amply rewarded as I did by this book.	1998-09-23
US	52821457	R2F33AP9OITS4K	0674576225	986198638	The Mind of a Mnemonist: A Little Book about a Vast Memory	Books	4	62	63	N	N	A readable book on a fascinating subject	I first encountered the name of A.R. Luria in the works of neurologist and  author Oliver Sacks, and am glad that several of Luria's works have been  translated from Russian into English.  The Mind of a Mnemonist is an  insightful inquisition by Luria into a man he knew for several decades who  had a literally limitless memory.  The man - called 'S.' in the book - had  an especially vivid synesthesia, whereby he converted what he saw or heard  into vivid visual imagery, with powerful gustatory and auditory overtones  as well.  To forget things required an act of the will, and in some  respects his prodigious memory was actually a hindrance for him.  This  short book is quite easy to read and fascinating enough to hold one's  interest all the way through.  <br />     This book, Oliver Sacks' The Man Who  Mistook His Wife for a Hat (especially his chapter on &quot;The  Twins&quot;) or An Anthropologist on Mars (cf. the chapter  &quot;Prodigies&quot;), and Donald Treffert's Extraordinary People:  Understanding &quot;Idiot Savants&quot;, all explore people whose memory is  astonishingly accurate and sometimes limitless.  These are fascinating and  highly stimulating accounts that arouse our sense of wonder.	1998-09-07
US	52821457	R3E05WGIH1GTSE	0892838698	617367914	The Forever Feast	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Enjoyable and Instructive	Dr. Paul Brand, co-author with Philip Yancey of Fearfully &amp;  Wonderfully Made and In His Image, has written a very down-to-earth book  that explores the analogy between physical and spiritual hunger.  In 18  chapters and 220 pages, the veteran missionary surgeon shares his thoughts  on how we satisfy our bodies and souls with nourishment.  Sprinkled with  quotes, drawings, and anecdotes, this lively book takes a gently  exhortative approach to spiritual growth, stimulating the reader to ponder  and act upon the need for maturation of the soul.	1998-08-30
US	52821457	R2LB4V1YBMJLOC	0310221447	204355676	Gift of Pain, The	Books	5	37	38	N	N	Outstanding	In this combination memoir/medical ruminations - originally published  under the title Pain: The Gift Nobody Wants - Dr. Paul Brand and Philip  Yancey share Dr. Brand's work as a physician, with reflections from a  lifetime of thinking about pain.  It is natural for Dr. Brand to explore  the subject of pain, for in a career as a surgeon working among leprosy  patients, he has seen the devastating effects that come upon people who  lack pain - damaged feet, fingers, noses, or eyes, often leading to  infection, misery, and death.  Part one of this book traces Dr. Brand's  path into medicine.  Part two explores his career in pain, and part three  shares how Dr. Brand has learned to befriend pain, seeing it as a gift, an  essential requirement for health.  As a Britain who has spent roughly one  third of his long life in England, one third in India, and one third in the  United States, Dr. Brand's life on three different continents have given  him first-hand glimpses of how people view pain.  <br />     People of any  philosophical or religious persuasion will enjoy this ecumenical book,  especially since it addresses an issue common to us all.  The writing is  not overly technical or heavy, and numerous illustrations/stories make this  a very readable book.  I found the book helpful for understanding the dual  nature of pain (&quot;For good and for ill, the human species has among its  privileges the preeminence of pain,&quot;), and appreciated the helpful  discussion about learning to cope with it.	1998-08-30
US	52821457	RZX7ON3D317D7	0385492081	82772270	Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mt. Everest Disaster	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fair, Thorough, and Exciting	Krakauer has written a great adventure story, one that is both tragic and  true.  He takes pains to share differing opinions about areas of  controversy, trying to be as fair as possible.  His explanations of  climbing equipment/jargon, historical reviews of Everest, Sherpa culture,  and the photographs accompanying the text, make it easy for the layman  (like myself) to follow the story.  Keep a dictionary by your side as you  read this - Krakauer's vocabulary is quite ample and he employs several  words not commonly used in conversation.	1998-08-30
US	52821457	R20NWRMRZ0MXTV	0824505425	726889615	I Asked For Wonder: A Spiritual Anthology	Books	5	46	46	N	N	An anthology of wisdom	This book is a &quot;best of&quot; selection from the writings of Abraham  Joshua Heschel, put together posthumously by Samuel Dresner.  The title  comes from the preface in Heschel's book of Yiddish poems, where he  comments, &quot;I did not ask for success; I asked for wonder.  And You  gave it to me.&quot;<br />  This 123 page anthology has numerous selections  ranging from one sentence to five pages in length.  (Most selections are a  few paragraphs in length.)  There is ample material for reflection, and  Heschel's wise insights and commentary provide spiritual nourishment and  admonition.  I enjoyed working my way through this compendium, underlining  passages and writing commentary in the margins, using it as a devotional  work.	1998-08-30
US	52821457	RNAKJMYJYDUDL	0061315575	893082414	002: The Prophets: Volume II	Books	5	40	43	N	N	Volume 2 also a Classic	While volume one of Heschel's definitive work concentrates more on  specific prophets, volume two delves more into the general office of  prophecy as well as the various concepts of God held by philosophers from  around the globe (most notably the Greeks such as Plato, Aristotle, Zeno,  Chrysippus, Strato, or Xenophanes.)  He explores different ways others have  tried to understand the Hebrew prophets, comparing and contrasting biblical  prophecy with religious ecstasy, poetic inspiration, psychosis and  neuroses, literary devices, and prophets throughout the world (e.g. Greece,  Mesopotamia, Egypt, India, Americas, China etc).  While these modes of  analysis have validity as tools of study, ultimately they all fall short in  adequately explaining - and therefore understanding - the prophets.  Heschel's amazingly wide range of scholarly studies give him a unique  ability to assess these remarkable prophetic revelations recorded in the  scriptures.  I found his comments sagacious and illuminating.  This is not  a book of light reading, but neither is it a dreary pedantic tome.  It is a  classic that is helpful for both scholars and lay public alike, deserving  to be studied, underlined, highlighted, and commented upon while reading  through it.	1998-08-30
US	52821457	R5O4OCAWL1XVJ	0385488181	262510817	Eiger Dreams: Ventures Among Men and Mountains	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Surprising Variety	If ever I thought that a collection of mountain climbing stories would be  a little stale from lack of variety, EIGER DREAMS certainly shattered my  preconceptions in this regard.  Krakauer writes on a diverse assortment of  subjects relating to outdoor climbing, superbly avoiding monotonous  repetition.  Whether musing about the derring-do spirit of the denizens of  Chamonix, the flyboys of Talkeetna, or humoring the reader with candid  confessions of what it is like to be tentbound, Krakauer displays great  range, penetrating insight, and clear style with his writing ventures.  I  liked this book every bit as much as INTO THE WILD and INTO THIN AIR.	1998-08-24
US	52821457	R12WVUFVSB6O66	0826308791	705634002	The Education of Little Tree	Books	5	6	7	N	N	I loved the story	Forrest Carter - regardlesss of what he believed or how he lived - wrote a great book.  The Education of Little Tree presents a unique way of viewing the world, for one sees through the eyes of a young half-Cherokee boy growing up in the Smokey Mountains of Tennessee during the 1930s.  I found the book realistic, being often humorous and occasionally sad.  The adventurous episodes of each chapter are written in lively narrative, and I never found myself feeling bored or disinterested while working my way through the book.  Little Tree's often sage observations and received wisdom from his grandparents help make this tale instructive as well as enjoyable.  I can easily endorse this as an excellent book to read	1998-08-21
US	52821457	R231JQ3O3FXDQY	0804105820	122057176	It Was On Fire When I Lay Down On It	Books	4	14	15	N	N	More collected essays	This book is simliar to ALL I REALLY NEED TO KNOW I LEARNED IN KINDERGARTEN in consisting of several dozen short, easily readable, reflective essays.  I liked his first book a little better - I thought the overall quality a little higher.  There are, however, many fine pieces in this collection (including one commenting on the theme of his first book that is brutally honest).  The mood is a bit darker in this second volume, but that is not meant as a perjorative description, it merely means that Fulghum shows a different side to his ponderings.  If you liked his first book, you will like this one.  If you didn't, then you won't like this one either.	1998-08-10
US	52821457	R10IDH4CTCM6UC	0393046346	982420487	The Greatest Benefit to Mankind: A Medical History of Humanity	Books	5	28	30	N	N	Superb Medical History in One Volume	Until recently, when asked by his students for an up-to-date, readable, one-volume history of medicine, Roy Porter was at a loss of what to recommend.  He therefore decided to bridge the gap, so to speak, and undertake this momentous task himself.  In so far as it is possible for someone to adequately accomplish this Herculean task of being both comprehensive and somewhat concise (the material is indeed covered in one volume, though 831 pages long), Roy Porter has succeeded.<br />     Porter has an eye for the unusual, spicing up his reporting with examples of odd concoctions and practices used for various maladies down through the ages, such as the use of pulverized crocodile dung, various herbs, and honey as a contraceptive pessary among the ancient Egyptians, or the English resistance against legal revisions (including town sewer reform among other things) attempting to fight cholera in the 19th century: &quot;We prefer to take our chances with cholera and the rest rath! er than be bullied into health,&quot; reported THE TIMES.  Most refreshingly, he is not timid in rendering pronouncements for both good and ill on the medical profession, bringing a candor needed to assess the impact of medicine down through the ages.  He is thorough without being tedious, educational without being pedantic, and has a fine eye for comedy without being flippant.<br />     As someone with an interest in history and by vocation a surgeon, I found Roy Porter's book a delightfully instructive volume to read.  I look forward to returning to peruse it many times in the years ahead.	1998-08-03
US	52821457	R3C4NOZ4YPPF9O	042510107X	34724671	Red Storm Rising	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Easy to read	I found this book exciting and easy to read, though it is not the type of book that would bring much pleasure with repeated readings.  It's a good book to read on a lazy weekend or a long plane flight.	1998-07-24
US	52821457	RT82JZI4AZ31L	068303703X	466114134	Grant's Atlas of Anatomy	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Good, but it's not Netter	I used Grant's Atlas of Anatomy during my gross anatomy class in medical school because it was the one recommended by the staff.  It was fairly good, but not great.  The illustrative pages on the twelve cranial nerves are perhaps the best.  A few years after finishing that class, I found that Frank Netter M.D. had finally come out with an atlas of human anatomy.  If your budget is limited (and most medical students have limited finances), buy Frank Netter's Atlas of Human Anatomy because it is hands down the best atlas available.  I wish it would have been around when I was struggling through first year gross anatomy class.  Grant's Atlas may supplement it to some degree if you are looking for a second presentation for variety, but Netter's is without question unequaled.  Beyond this, if you ever decide to specialize in a medical field involving surgery - neurosurgery, gynecology, general surgery, orthopedics etc. - you will have opportunity to continue using Netter's A! tlas after medical school, whereas Grant's Atlas isn't very good in this regard.  In short:  buy Netter.  If you want another text to go with the first, Grant's Atlas isn't bad.	1998-07-19
US	52821457	R1SFV1KXR6QHAM	0892836199	175425441	Letters: C.S. Lewis, Don Giovanni Calabria : A Study in Friendship	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A warm correspondence	&quot;Te beatum dico et dicam&quot; = &quot;I call you blessed and I always shall.&quot;  Thus Father Don Giovanni Calabria addresses C.S. Lewis at one point in their correspondence out of gratitude for his work as a scholar and author.  Between 1947 and 1954, C.S. Lewis and Don Giovanni Calabria exchanged a series of letters, written in Latin, sharing their concerns with each other and encouraging each other to carry on in the work of God.  There is real warmth of feeling on both parties parts, and even if you don't read Latin, you will enjoy the English translations of this exchange.  After Father Calabria died in 1954, Lewis continued to correspond with his fellow priest Don Luigui Pedrollo through 1961.  Moynihan did a fine job of rendering these letters into English vernacular, so that Lewis's distinctive style can still be detected even through the lense of translation.	1998-07-12
US	52821457	R3DEOOMRRBP3SB	0898705525	816806068	Orthodoxy	Books	5	238	247	N	N	Entertaining, humorous, intelligent, and full of surprises	Portly, fun loving, witty G.K. Chesterton decided to write this book as a companion volume to his book HERETICS.  Since HERETICS had criticised contemporary philosophies, ORTHODOXY was written to present an alternative viewpoint, and is therefore both affirmative in tone and autobiographical in many places.  A sampling of his chapter titles gives some idea of Chesterton's sense of fun as well as his unusual approach to the matter of Christianity.  Chapter one is &quot;In Defense of Everything Else&quot; (one pictures Chesterton with a whimsical, impish smile on his face as he wrote this).  There are also chapters on &quot;The Suicide of Thought&quot;, &quot;The Ethics of Elfland&quot; (a really superb chapter), &quot;The Maniac&quot;, and &quot;The Paradoxes of Christianity&quot;.  In this easily readable book (only 160 pages in the small paperback edition), Chesterton shows that theological reflections and philosophical ruminations need be neither boring nor incomprehensible.  This was jolly good fun to read, being both funny and intellectually stimulating.  Highly recommended.	1998-07-09
US	52821457	R14KX2OR9PK9Q1	0310202000	298478162	Church: Why Bother?	Books	5	45	46	N	N	How to worship despite being in church	Everyone who has attended church with regularity can understand boredom and indifference among the congregants.  Services are often not conducive to worship.  Avoiding an abstract, depersonalized discussion of the matter, Philip Yancey relates his own reflections and experiences during his Christian pilgrimage.  Rather than going to church services wondering how they will minister to US, we should go to church services to worship GOD.  Our attention should be directed outward (&quot;How did God view my worship?&quot;) rather than inward (&quot;I got nothing out of that church service.&quot;) Sometimes, perhaps most times, we have to conduct our worship of God DESPITE being in church.  But that is what we should do.  <br />     I liked this personalized and down-to-earth approach of one layman talking to another.  (One is reminded of C.S. Lewis's REFLECTIONS ON THE PSALMS where Lewis says he is not presuming to instruct, he is merely comparing notes, like two school boys talking shop and helping each other over difficulties their schoolmaster has long forgotten about.)  I enjoyed Eugene Peterson's Foreword too.  This easily readable book (only 100 pages long) is good for personal reading as well as group discussion.	1998-07-04
US	52821457	R1UYT9Z6LZHHWV	031026782X	229217882	C.S. Lewis: Speaker and Teacher	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Contents	The Foreword for this book was written by Thomas Howard.  Clyde Kilby wrote chapter one, &quot;The Creative Logician Speaking&quot; (which includes his personal memories of Lewis), Walter Hooper wrote &quot;To the Martlets&quot; (including some of his memories of Lewis and discussing a literary society to which Lewis belonged during his early years at Oxford), Stuart Barton Babbage writes of Lewis's wartime speeches in &quot;To the Royal Air Force&quot;, George Bailey shares many Lewis recollections with his &quot;In the University&quot;, long time friend Owen Barfield tells what Lewis was like &quot;In Conversation&quot;, and Carolyn Keefe writes two chapters about Lewis's broadcasts, &quot;On the Air&quot; and &quot;Notes on Lewis's Voice&quot;.  This collection is enjoyable reading for Lewis enthusiasts.	1998-07-03
US	52821457	RC2279IWCC1VY	0156508710	41206392	Letters of C. S. Lewis (Harvest Book)	Books	5	36	36	N	N	Hard to put down	While standard biographies are the medium people often turn to to find out more about someone, the letters an author pens often more revealing.  I thoroughly enjoyed this (much needed) updated version of the letters of C.S. Lewis from 1916 - 1963 to his various correspondents.  They are at various times funny, full of good advice, intentional nonsense, great learning, wit, homely (talking about the every day events that go on in life), and all in all intensely interesting.  In addition to this fine volume, you might want to try his volume of Letters to Arthur Greeves (originally published as They Stand Together), C.S. Lewis Letters to Children, or The Latin Letters of C.S. Lewis.  They are all quite good.	1998-07-03
US	52821457	R3VSUAJMNQX2T5	0156232073	571605858	C. S. Lewis at the Breakfast Table and Other Reminiscences: New Edition	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Contents	This book is divided into six parts, reflecting the various ways that people knew Lewis:  Earliest Perspectives (memoirs by those who knew Lewis from the 1920s - contributors include Leo Baker, Alan Bede Griffiths, O.S.B., and A.C. Harwood), Master (people who were acquainted with Lewis as Oxford don - contributors include Erik Routley, Luke Rigby O.S.B., Derek Brewer, John Wain, and Peter Payley), Colleague (fellow dons Adam Fox, Gervase Mathew O.P., and Richard W. Ladborough), Transatlantic Ties (American contributors Charles Wrong, Jane Douglass, Nathan C. Starr, and Eugene McGovern), Much More Than A Tutor (people who knew Lewis outside the classroom - contributors include Walter Hooper, Charles Gilmore, Clifford Morris, George Sayer, Roger Lancelyn Green, Dr. Robert E. Havard, and James Dundas-Grant), and The Essence That Prevails (perspectives about the influence of C.S. Lewis written by A.C. Harwood, Austin Farrer, and Walter Hooper.)  Other books that are similar to C.S. Lewis at the Breakfast Table include In Search of C.S. Lewis, C.S. Lewis: Speaker and Teacher, and Light on C.S. Lewis.	1998-07-03
US	52821457	R349YY25R6X0AO	0151519811	232497879	Light on C. S. Lewis	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Contents	Contents of this book include the Preface, written by Jocelyn Gibb, who knew Lewis from his role as editor for several of his books.  Long time friend Owen Barfield supplied the Introduction.  Theologian Austin Farrer remembers Lewis's work as a Christian apologist.  J.A.W. Bennett, a former Lewis pupil and later colleague, referred to Lewis as one of the last representatives of the &quot;Old Western Order&quot;.  Nevill Coghill was a classmate of Lewis's at Oxford in the early 1920s, and shares his recollections of the man he refers to as &quot;easily the greatest teacher of our time in his chosen fields.&quot;  John Lawlor, another former Lewis pupil, gives his richly insightful comments about Lewis's tutoring methods and approach to learning.  Novelist Stella Gibbons discusses Lewis's science fiction novels.  Kathleen Raine remembers her conversations with Lewis about poetry and criticism during his last years at Cambridge;  and Chad Walsh describes Lewis's profound impact on American religious thinking.  At the end of the book, Walter Hooper provides a bibliography of Lewis writings.  This book and others - like C.S. Lewis: Speaker and Teacher, C.S. Lewis at the Breakfast Table, and In Search of C.S. Lewis - is a fine volume of commentary about C.S. Lewis and his work by those who knew him.  Fun reading for Lewis fans.	1998-07-03
US	52821457	RJ0929J6IXLNG	015650880X	503386208	Letters to Malcolm: Chiefly on Prayer	Books	3	18	22	N	N	Meditations on prayer life	Letters to Malcolm was the last book that C.S. Lewis wrote, and consists of twenty two letters written to a fictitious character named Malcolm, mostly concerning Lewis's thoughts about prayer.  This may be the most personal glimpse of Lewis's spiritual side, and many have enjoyed his relaxed, warm dialogue in these epistles.  For those wishing to meditate on the various aspects of praying (content of prayer, petitionary prayers - does God grant requests?, prayer as worship, penitential prayer, the Lord's prayer, or prayer for the dead) this book will give plenty of food for thought.  Personally, I like most of Lewis's other books better than this one, but if you are studying the subject of prayer, pondering worship in prayer, or musing about whether or not praying does any good, this book will be a good purchase for you.	1998-07-02
US	52821457	RNYE79USB53IF	0684823780	338167986	Mere Christianity	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Superb	Mere Christianity is a revised and enlarged edition of the three books produced from C.S. Lewis's radio broadcasts in England during World War II:  The Case for Christianity, Christian Behaviour, and Beyond Personality.  Here is the outline for Mere Christianity:<br />     Book I. RIGHT AND WRONG AS A CLUE TO THE MEANING OF THE UNIVERSE.  1.) The Law of Human Nature (Where Lewis begins by saying, &quot;Every one has heard people quarrelling,&quot; then goes on to talk about the moral law people appeal to when they argue.)  2.) Some Objections  3.)The Reality of the Law  4.) What Lies Behind the Law  5.) We Have Cause to Be Uneasy<br />     Book II. WHAT CHRISTIANS BELIEVE  1.) The Rival Conceptions of God  2.) The Invasion  3.) The Shocking Alternative (where Lewis presents his claims that Jesus of Nazareth was either God incarnate, a liar, or a lunatic, but not merely a good moral teacher.)    4.) The Perfect Penitent  5.) The Practical Conclusion<br />     Book III. CHRISTIAN BEHAVIOUR  1.) The Three Parts of Morality  2.) The &quot;Cardinal Virtues&quot; (Lewis discusses Prudence, Temperance, Justice, and Fortitude)  3.) Social Morality  4.) Morality and Psychoanalysis  5.) Sexual Morality  6.) Christian Marriage    7.) Forgiveness  8.) The Great Sin (pride)  9.) Charity  10.) Hope  11.) Faith  12.) Faith<br />    Book IV. BEYOND PERSONALITY: OR FIRST STEPS IN THE DOCTRINE OF THE TRINITY  1.) Making and Begetting  2.) The Three-Personal God  3.) Time and Beyond Time  4.) Good Infection  5a.) The Obstinate Toy Soldiers  6.) Two Notes  7.) Let's Pretend  8.) Is Christianity Hard or Easy?  9.) Counting the Cost  10.) Nice People or New Men  11.) The New Men<br />     In his preface, Lewis wrote, &quot;The reader should be warned that I offer no help to anyone who is hesitating between two Christian &quot;denominations.&quot;  You will not learn from me whether you ought to become an Anglican, a Methodist, a Presbyterian, or a Roman Catholic. . . Ever since I becamea Christian I have thought that the best, perhaps!  the only, service I could do for my unbelieving neighbours was to explain and defend the belief that has been common to nearly all Christians at all times.&quot;  This was Lewis's purpose in creating this book, to discuss what Baxter called &quot;mere&quot; Christianity, or the bare essentials that should be common to all Christians.  In a book that is less than 200 pages long, it is amazing that Lewis was able to accomplish such a task.  Regardless of whether you are already a Christian, or someone who is interested only in what it is that Christians believe, this concise book explains the basics in an engaging fashion.	1998-06-28
US	52821457	R1130YNXOPBR6P	0802808719	565834210	The Christian World of C. S. Lewis	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Outstanding Enlightenment on Lewis's Books	The book's publisher notes that, &quot;This study of his [C.S. Lewis's] writings provides a perceptive and illuminating guide to readers who may be unacquainted with Lewis; a help to those wishing to understand him better; and an evaluation for those who want a survey of his works as a whole.  Clyde S. Kilby examines Lewis's Christian works one by one, compares them with each other and with books by other authors, and discovers and elucidates the themes that recur throughout the main body of Lewis's writings.&quot;  Some of the books discussed include the seven Chronicles of Narnia, the three volume Space Trilogy, Till We Have Faces, The Great Divorce, The Pilgrim's Regress, Surprised by Joy, The Four Loves, Letters to Malcolm: Chiefly on Prayer, Miracles, The Screwtape Letters, The Problem of Pain, Mere Christianity, and Reflections on the Psalms.<br />     I found this fine volume to be most enlightening, a helpful companion to understanding the things Lewis wrote about.  It is less than 200 pages long, practical, insightful, and definitely worth obtaining whether you are just being introduced to the works of C.S. Lewis or have been reading him for many years.	1998-06-28
US	52821457	R2SRM2UDF14IMC	0156722488	109773621	Poems	Books	4	22	22	N	N	Collected Poetry of C.S. Lewis	Thomas Howard, writing about this book in a review, remarked, &quot;This is the best - the glorious best - of Lewis.&quot;  I wouldn't go quite that far in my praise of this book, but it does indeed have a number of poems that speak to the heart.  Lewis's technique is outstanding, but technique does not guarantee great poetry, and some of Lewis's poems soar loftily while others fall flat.  Most poems are short enough to fit on one or two pages, making this book a nice item to dabble in for a few minutes at lunch, before bedtime, or just lounging around the house.  Some of my favorites were his Narnia Suite (a &quot;March for Strings, Kettledrums, and Sixty-three dwarfs&quot;!), Evolutionary Hymn (a satire that will make you chuckle), Love's As Warm As Tears (that I found moving), and The Apologist's Evening Prayer (a candid plea for mercy from someone who regularly spoke on God's behalf).  If you already enjoy reading C.S. Lewis, then buy this book.  If you haven't read anything by Lewis, you might want to start some place else (like The Chronicles of Narnia, The Weight of Glory, or God in the Dock) before turning to his poetry.	1998-06-23
US	52821457	R37S8B05QOIXYM	0156687887	16559150	C. S. Lewis On Stories: And Other Essays on Literature	Books	5	34	36	N	N	A fine discussion of stories	As a voracious reader and prodigious author, C.S. Lewis had lots of views to air on the art of telling stories.  Twenty pieces he wrote through the years are here collected in a compendium that ranges over a wide array of topics.  The titles give a good idea of the sorts of things you'll find in this book:  The Novels of Charles Williams, On Three Ways of Writing for Children, Sometimes Fairy Stories May Say Best What's to Be Said, A Panegyric for Dorothy L. Sayers, Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings, The Mythopoeic Gift of Rider Haggard, and Different Tastes in Literature are some of the things that Lewis discourses about with verve and understanding.  This is fine reading for those who love enlightening commentary about what comprises good fiction.	1998-06-23
US	52821457	ROSI3CHWISATT	0684823853	350241759	That Hideous Strength	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Slow start but finishes strongly	As a fairy tale, this book starts off rather slowly (as many fairy tales do), but the action eventually picks up and the ending is good.  Besides the story line, this book presents a more right brained approach to the things Lewis wrote about in THE ABOLITION OF MAN, as well as a depiction of the groups he talks about in his essay &quot;The Inner Ring&quot;, the 6th chapter of his book THE WEIGHT OF GLORY.  Lewis manages bring in several other mythologies into his own story, including Numinor (from his friend J.R.R. Tolkien's LORD OF THE RINGS) and Merlin (from the Arthurian saga).  If you can patiently work your way through the start of this novel, the body and ending of it will reward your efforts.	1998-06-21
US	52821457	R3D818VXF7BB54	0802806414	864999995	The Pilgrim's Regress	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A brilliant allegory	With the title being a parody of Pilgrim's Progress by Paul Bunyan, Lewis's allegory is a rich telling of his own route to faith in God.  In what was Lewis's only published allegory (the space trilogy, Chronicles of Narnia, and Till We Have Faces are all fiction, but not allegory) he takes the reader on a journey, complete with a map and one line summations at the top of each page to explain the action taking place.  Some of the philosophies Lewis denounced are no longer in vogue and will be unfamiliar to most, but the rest are recognizable and discussed fluently. J.I. Packer likes this the best of all the Lewis books and it is easy to see why.  Lewis's work is a virtuoso performance.	1998-06-21
US	52821457	R1I29919OZ0LI6	0156653273	84846429	Narrative Poems of C.S. Lewis	Books	3	23	28	N	N	Good stories in poetry	Narrative poems are distinguished because of their aim to tell a story, rather than share a few thoughts, feelings, or experiences like shorter poetry does.  For my money, the best narrative poet is Longfellow, with great tales like Hiawatha, The Courtship of Miles Standish, or Evangeline; Lewis wrote four narrative poems, only one of which reached publication during his lifetime:  Dymer.  Dymer is long and complicated and only partially successful as a good story.  Walter Hooper, who edited this volume, feels that The Queen of the Drum was Lewis's best of the four poems, while I thought it the least interesting.  The two best poems of this book are Launcelot and The Nameless Isle (and not just because they - at 9 and 21 pages respectively - are by far the shortest ones in the book.)  I loved the imagery Lewis invoked with these two poems, the nostalgia and almost mystical pull of these stories.  If you love narrative poetry, buy this book.  If you don't like narrative poetry, this book won't change your tastes.	1998-06-20
US	52821457	R2XK52UCSRRM8A	0802808697	788322248	Christian Reflections	Books	4	24	24	N	N	14 engaging C.S. Lewis essays	These fourteen essays (with an introduction by Walter Hooper) are about a variety of topics related to Christianity, but not necessarily ABOUT Christianity.  My favorite of the bunch is &quot;Modern Theology and Biblical Criticism&quot;, a thumping rejoinder to those whose misapplication of form and redaction criticism (e.g. Bultmann or Schweitzer or Dibelius) to the gospels prevents them from making sound judgments about the life of Christ.  His essay &quot;Petitionary Prayer: A Problem Without an Answer&quot; is brutally honest, ending as it does in a questioning uncertainty about the matter, while his essay &quot;The Psalms&quot; is helpful in guiding the reader to an understanding of how to view that portion of scripture.  Some essays may strike one reader's fancy less than another's, but there is plenty here for most people to find AT LEAST one or two they greatly enjoy.  I liked all of them and found most of them very helpful to my own reflections on life.	1998-06-19
US	52821457	R1LYMGY9W99PUT	0156983605	908428420	The World's Last Night: And Other Essays	Books	5	87	88	N	N	Seven finely crafted essays	This book is a collection of various essays that C.S. Lewis authored and published a few years before his death.  The titles are &quot;The Efficacy of Prayer&quot; (that discusses what practical, if any, effect our prayers have), &quot;On Obstinacy in Belief&quot; (exploring the reasons why people cling to a particular world view), &quot;Lilies that Fester&quot;(&quot;Lilies that fester smell far worse than weeds,&quot; a talk about those whose concern is with a superficial desire to &quot;be cultured&quot; versus those who really care about the things that comprise culture), &quot;Screwtape Proposes a Toast&quot; (a short sequel to his book The Screwtape Letters), &quot;Good Work and Good Works&quot; (describing the difference between quality workmanship and Christian charity), &quot;Religion and Rocketry&quot; (discussing the truth of religion in a world where advancing technology allows humans to visit other worlds), and &quot;The World's Last Night&quot;(about the second coming of Christ).  The essays are full of the usual vintage Lewis:  shrewd, humorous, wise, and clear.  In brief, they make for a fine reading time.	1998-06-19
US	52821457	R1C30HLJBVX3QK	0815201907	21814961	The Strange Lives of Familiar Insects	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Enthralling	I first heard about this book while reading Annie Dillard's Pilgrim at Tinker Creek.  She praised it highly, and deservedly so.  Teale's book has several drawings and photographs that nicely supplement a very engaging text.  His book is divided into three parts:  The Strangeness of Insect Life, in which he gives an overview of some of the peculiarities and oddities of insects; What Life is Like for an Insect; then Lives of Familiar Insects, with a chapter for each of 14 insects he has chosen to discuss, including the May Fly, Monarch Butterfly, Termites, Paper Making Wasp, and Ladybird Beetle, among others.  This is not an overly scholarly book, but one written for the lay reader.  Teale successfully pricks the reader's curiosity and arouses one's sense of wonder.  The chapters are of easily readable length, and my only regret about this fine volume is that it has gone out of print.  If you can get your hands on a copy (I found mine through the AMAZON.COM search service), by all means do so.  It's well worth the wait.	1998-06-17
US	52821457	R2H64BWK7M82V0	0679452486	496848842	Island of the Colorblind	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A nice complement to the book	This abbreviated audio version of The Island of the Colorblind was nicely complementary to the full length book.  I didn't care much for the background music blaring forth as Sacks began his reading:  it was distracting and made it difficult to hear what Sacks was saying.  I was also quite surprised to find out that Sacks has a lisp, as he does not pronounce his r's, thus words like very and colorblind are pronounced &quot;vewy&quot; and &quot;coluhblind&quot;.  Sacks sounds like Elmer Fudd with an English accent.  If you can get past these two factors, the tapes become a delight to listen to, and I liked them.	1998-06-15
US	52821457	R1X359DZBKDDRH	0310219140	35937449	Loving God	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A collection of stories in a book of theology	Theology is not merely about coffee shop debates or classroom discussions of theoretical situations.  It is about the study of God and how that knowledge makes a true difference in how we live our lives.  In this book, Chuck Colson has woven together several stories that demonstrate vividly how loving God makes a difference in how we live.  He discusses obedience, the word of God, sin and repentence, the hunger for holiness, and the holy nation.  The stories span many centuries and take place in many countries, from the monk Telemachus and his martyrdom in the Roman Coliseum, to Dr. Boris Kornfeld and his influence upon eventual Nobel laureate Alexander Solzhenitsyn, to Colson's own experiences with those he worked with in President Nixon's administration.  This book is easy to read, insightful, and practical; in a word:  recommended.	1998-06-14
US	52821457	R2CMAIY1KBJGXW	080521058X	196350960	Twilight: A Novel	Books	1	0	12	N	N	What's the point?	After reading his book NIGHT and being moved by Wiesel's holocaust experiences in the setting of a Nazi Concentration camp, I decided to read TWILIGHT when I saw it sitting next to NIGHT in a bookstore.  TWILIGHT turned out to be a very weird novel whose purpose I never could surmise.  I took it back to the bookstore for a refund.  I highly recommend reading Wiesel's NIGHT, but suggest avoiding TWILIGHT which is bizarre and perplexing.	1998-06-12
US	52821457	RJ8SZR8TPK3HI	0805241450	979628750	The Sunflower: On the Possibilities and Limits of Forgiveness	Books	5	20	23	N	N	Wiesenthal better than the symposium	Simon Wiesenthal authored a first rate book, one that should be read by everyone the world over, for it deals with problems that all societies struggle with in trying to achieve peace:  forgiveness, justice, and grace.  To what extent are we enabled to offer forgiveness on behalf of another, especially when the crimes committed are of almost unspeakable atrocity?  Wiesenthal's story is gripping, moving, and haunting, a true encounter that provokes repeated pondering and contemplation.  I don't have the 1997 revised version of the book containing the responses of 46 people in a symposium discussion, but I can say that in the original 32 responses, I read very few that contained a cogency and depth equal to that of Wiesenthal's story.  While a handful were good, most were evasive.  I therefore found the second half of the book to be a disappointment.  THE SUNFLOWER, though, is worth getting just to read Wiesenthal's treatment, which is first rate.  Philip Yancey also offers some thoughtful comments in a chapter from his book of essays entitled I WAS JUST WONDERING (beginning on page 70 under the title &quot;A Haunting Deathbed Confession&quot;.)	1998-06-11
US	52821457	R1LCO580PZOGF9	0156004801	475362106	All the King's Men	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Slow start, but finishes strong	I must admit that part of my interest in this book is provincial, as I spent part of my growing years in Louisiana, where the name of Huey P. Long is still familiar.  Robert Penn Warren's novel starts off a little slowly, but the action picks up, and Willie Stark is a finely drawn character whose resemblance to the real life Long will not be overlooked by those familiar with Louisiana's political history in this century.  Warren captures the FLAVOR of Huey Long's political milieau with his portrait of Willie Stark.  This book is surely worth a look if you are interested in seeing the potential benefits and dangers of someone who demanded absolute power to operate in the political sphere.	1998-06-07
US	52821457	R12XJ4NOPXPU02	0849961912	450659252	The Four Loves	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Buy the cassettes, then read the book	The cassette recordings of C.S. Lewis discussing the four loves are superb.  Lewis had a rich baritone reading voice, and his homely discussion of the storge, philea, eros, and agape is filled with good sense and profound insights.  I can easily recommend purchasing the tapes, and his book THE FOUR LOVES compliments the tapes nicely.	1998-06-04
US	52821457	R2AHVHVCF6BWTN	0396038417	163171271	001: History of the English Speaking People: Birth of Britain, 55 B.C. to 1485	Books	3	17	19	N	N	Fine writing, poor coverage	Churchill was a superb writer, a man whose style I find inspiring.  The way he conveys the information in this volume is most engaging.  However, this is not really a good history book, as Churchill's focus is much too narrow.  He focuses on military and political matters to the near exclusion of everything else.  He gives little discussion to things that have had profound effects on history, like disease and plagues (the Black Plague receives brief, cursorary treatment), and if you read through this volume, you will find little if any discussion of music, dress, art, architecture, language, agriculture, sport, religion, literature, or daily life among the English speaking peoples.  Science and inventions are only mentioned if they contribute something to the art of war.  His work is accurately described by a quote from J. Henri Fabre, &quot;History pays but little attention to these details: it celebrates the battle-fields whereon we meet our death, it scorns to speak of the ploughed fields whereby we thrive; it knows the names of the King' bastards, it cannot tell us the origin of wheat.  That is the way of human folly.&quot;  While Churchill's style is excellent, his chronicling is myopic and therefore unsatisfactory.  This volume does not give much &quot;history&quot; of the &quot;peoples&quot; (as the book's title would suggest), but it does tell about an island's wars and her kings.	1998-06-01
US	52821457	R205DM0054G7YO	0321402979	878213598	Principles of Anatomy and Physiology, Eighth Edition, and Atlas of the Human Skeleton, Package	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Outstanding text for health professionals and students	I am a surgeon, my wife is a nurse, and both of us greatly admire (and continue to use) this fine anatomy and physiology textbook.  It is helpful for undergraduate studies in A&amp;P college courses, graduate school studies, medical school, or nursing school, and the wonderful illustrations and pictures are great for reference in future years.  I highly recommend purchasing this textbook, even if it is not the &quot;Official&quot; one used by your particular school or course, since it will aid your studies greatly.	1998-05-24
US	52821457	R1ENQJ23RYVZK0	0914168002	128929443	Netter Collection of Medical Illustrations (13 Books in 8 Volumes)	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Excellent reference works for medical education	I have the whole CIBA set of Frank Netter illustrations, and treasure them both for their fine artistic work and their value as medical reference resources.   I found them invaluable during my medical school days, especially for my neuroanatomy classes, and still make reference to them from time to time in my clinical practice.  The texts for some of the older volumes need a little updating, but the illustrations are still pertinent, helpful as ever.  These are helpful adjuncts to medical students and residents alike.	1998-05-24
US	52821457	R2GXJKP9GOI7JJ	0914168193	985883715	Atlas of Human Anatomy	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Best Atlas of Human Anatomy Available	As a surgeon, I know that precise and thorough anatomical knowledge is very important to the operations physicians perform.  Having sampled most of the atlases available over the years, I can confidently say that Netter's is easily the best.  I still refer to it from time to time to aid my work.  I wish it had been around when I was a medical student taking gross anatomy.  It would have made a difference in my understanding and test scores.  This masterpiece is definitely worth buying.	1998-05-24
US	52821457	R3BYRUGHWSNS8V	0060685115	723685893	Wisdom stories for the planet Earth	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Excellent Discussion of a neglected subject	Although more books have been written about Abraham Lincoln than anyone else in history except Jesus of Nazareth and William Shakespeare, few of them have looked with any intensity or insight at Lincoln's religion.  Lots of people mention it, but few have really studied it.  Trueblood gives a superb viewing of Lincoln's spirituality, revealing what books Lincoln read while growing up (including Aesop's Fables, Defoe's Robinson Crusoe, and Weems' Life of Washington among others), what his spiritual heritage was, and how his own theology developed over the years, being intensified and refined while in the president's office during the Civil War years.  If you can find a copy of this out of print classic (only 150 pages long), by all means read it.  It's excellent reading.	1998-05-23
US	52821457	R18HU45A6C5HPX	0898159393	813648582	Up Shit Creek: A Collection of Horrifyingly True Wilderness Toilet Misadventures	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Funny at times	I give this book a six because the writing is sophisticated enough to make the stories funny and because I liked the last chapter of &quot;reflections&quot;, in which the author waxes philosophical about something that is part of who we are and ought to be discussed more openly.  I don't give the book a 9 or 10 because even though the stories are pretty good, they are not overwhelmingly funny, bizarre, or interesting.	1998-05-22
US	52821457	R2WXWCL74PT8MH	014015910X	404354666	The Salterton Trilogy: Tempest-Tost Leaven of Malice a Mixture of Frailties	Books	4	7	7	N	N	I liked Leaven of Malice the best	Of the three trilogies Davies created, I think the Deptford Trilogy is the best.  The Salterton Trilogy I would rank a distant second and the Cornish Trilogy third (though the first novel, Rebel Angels, is as good as anything Davies ever wrote.)  From the Salterton Trilogy, I especially enjoyed the quotes at the beginning of each book which explain the source for each book's title:  Tempest Tost coming from Shakespeare, Leaven of Malice from the Book of Common Prayer, and A Mixture of Frailties from Halifax.  As for the novels themselves, I thought Leaven of Malice the best, both in terms of the story and the characters.  Lots of humor, good plot, and a very believable demonstration of how malice, like leaven in bread, can grow within the breast of the person who bears it, eating away at their peace of mind.	1998-05-18
US	52821457	R27SM3HQ51ZDMY	0520006755	149726543	Ishi in Two Worlds: A Biography of the Last Wild Indian in North America	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Best book I've read this year	Imagine this:  it's the 20th century, we have electricity, movies, telephones, trains, cars, the latest audio recording devices, indoor plumbing, and access to the usual luxuries and amenities of our western world.  Then one day - here in the United States, out of our own country - a man appears out of the wilderness, almost magically transferred from the stone age to the steel age.  Truth is said to be stranger than fiction, and the story of Ishi is one such example.  Ishi was the last of the Yahi Indians, living in Northern California under a cloak of fear, secrecy, and evasion from white men, carrying on this lifestyle for the better part of four decades.  In this thoroughly researched book, Theodora Kroeber tells Ishi's story.  She covers the historical and geographical background of the Yahi Indians, how their lives began to change and their numbers decimated with the coming of the caucasions in the mid- 19th century, and how Ishi and the few remaining people of his tribe lived until Ishi was the last one left.  She then tells us about the man himself, the last (happy) five years of his life in San Francisco, and the adjustments and learning Ishi went through in his new home.  The author does a superb job of comparing and contrasting Ishi's stone age world with the steel age world, without the tedious prose often involved in such writing.  This book is highly readable and strongly recommended.	1998-05-15
US	52821457	R2RZVVLBENYT3B	0025536605	858328123	They Stand Together: The Letters of C.S. Lewis to Arthur Greeves (1914-1963)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Highly entertaining and valuable correspondence	This book is a finely edited collection of letters from C.S. Lewis to one of his closest friends, Arthur Greeves.  Besides the usual day to day chat, Lewis lets Arthur in on the three things he thinks should go into a letter:  a person's readings, thinkings, and doings.  Not only was this correspondence fun to read, but several specimens are as good as anything I've read in the way of sage advice to aspiring writers.  Lewis's letters are candid, often whimsical and full of good humor, and entertaining in giving insightful commentary on the books he read.  Walter Hooper has done a fine job of editing the correspondence and I strongly recommend obtaining a copy of the book if you can get hold of one.	1998-05-14
US	52821457	R3H5R2W57EGGM8	0684803356	896923	For Whom the Bell Tolls	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A good novel	I happen to think Hemingway is one of the most overrated novelists of the 20th century, but this particular book is &quot;a good read.&quot;  Hemingway does deal with many subjects such as duty, brutalization, love, or loyalty, all the while telling a good, moving story.  Not my vote for &quot;the great American novel&quot;, but worth reading.	1998-04-28
US	52821457	R25WPDJKP7170L	1573225304	770662476	Remarkable Recovery: What Extraordinary Healings Tell Us About Getting Well and Staying Well	Books	5	53	58	N	N	Definitely worth reading	As a physician who saw many people succumb to cancer during my surgical residency, I read with interest the accounts of people with documented cancers who truly underwent spontaneous remission.  The authors have done their homework in researching the background for these remarkable patients, trying to come up with clues about their reasons for survival.  For their research, I think it was wise to include not only those who were cured of their disease, but those who lived far longer than medical science would have predicted.  By doing so, they shed light on some interesting &quot;survivor characteristics.&quot;  This book is as objective as possible about the ineffable subject of spontaneous cancer regression (or more broadly, &quot;remarkable recoveries&quot;) as the authors try to take in all points of view (without necessarily endorsing them).  Their findings were strengthened by allowing the patients, their families and physicians to tell their stories.  I give this book a high mark of 9 for thoroughness of research and stimulating enlightenment; it does not receive a 10 because it does lack balance, not telling the stories of the thousand upon thousands upon thousands of people who went on special diets, did meditation or prayer, emotionally fought for their lives, and all the other things Hirshberg and Barasch discuss, yet who DIED from their cancer.  The mind may be able to cause the disappearance of warts, influence irritable bowel syndrome, and play a role in the extremely rare case of spontaneous cancer remission, but the vast majority of the time, it cannot halt the progress of cancer.  The book omits discussion of this all too sobering fact.  Otherwise, it is good for pondering a remarkable subject.	1998-04-15
US	52821457	R390WNPNSA9OGV	0836213122	347480714	There's Treasure Everywhere--A Calvin and Hobbes Collection	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Laughter galore	As with the other Calvin and Hobbes books, I found my shoulders shaking and sides hurting from laughing so hard.  For a kid like Calvin, there really is treasure everywhere.  For the reader, there seems to be laughter everywhere Calvin goes.  Great fun.	1998-04-15
US	52821457	R1R685XUZL0MMC	0836221362	160173314	It's A Magical World: A Calvin and Hobbes Collection	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A grand finale	It was with sadness that I finished this book, knowing that this was the last of the Calvin &amp; Hobbes books to come from Bill Watterson's sketchpads.  Watterson is like the Michael Jordan of the comic strip in the sense that when he retired, he was the best of the best and therefore irreplaceable.  His final book is wonderful as always.	1998-04-15
US	52821457	R2RNM5PJZRT9U0	0878053840	790937631	Conversations with Robertson Davies (Literary Conversations Series)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Interesting for Robertson Davies fans	For people who have loved reading Robertson Davies' books, this is an interesting and enlightening compendium of interviews with one of Canada's foremost men of letters.  The reading itself is a little tedious at times (though Davies is always lively) and if you haven't read any of Davies' other books, don't start with this one.	1998-04-14
US	52821457	R2VCM2WGM49QSM	0451192036	730789518	Black Like Me	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Sobering enlightenment	Although some of the things that Griffin faced as a &quot;black&quot; man have changed (we no longer have separate drinking fountains or different lavoratories for blacks and whites), the subtleties of racism still pervade our culture, so Griffin's book remains pertinent.  I was intrigued, among other things, to see Griffin changing shades of skin color to flip back and forth from the &quot;white man&quot; to &quot;black man&quot; appearances, recording the marked differences in the way apparently polite people displayed their true feelings when they suddenly saw him as a member of the &quot;other&quot; race.  This is an easy book to recommend, and I only wish Griffin were still around to update his comments and give his observations of how America appears now compared to four decades ago; (his experimentation as a negro took place in 1959).	1998-04-11
US	52821457	R3R8O7UJI2SK7O	0802800327	96467719	The Forgiveness of Sins	Books	2	2	7	N	N	Clotted thoughts	Charles Williams' writing has been described as being like 'clotted glory':  something that has value to say but is muddled in the communication.  His obscurity and lack of clarity are just a little too much for this book to be successful, and I recommend looking to other writers for enlightenment on this issue.	1998-04-10
US	52821457	R19KS3EPMGB1JR	0723236186	544385617	The Complete Tales of Beatrix Potter : The 23 Original Peter Rabbit Books	Books	4	17	21	N	N	Pretty illustrations	All the familiar tales of Beatrix Potter are in this handsome volume, including Squirrel Nutkin, Little Pig Robinson, and my favorite, Peter Rabbit.  The stories reflect the English culture from the early portion of this century and some things may be a little hard for young American readers to understand, but most of these tales will continue to have a long career of being read to the young.  Full color illustrations enliven this volume of short stories.	1998-04-09
US	52821457	R1PCHX7XQRFJ6F	0310385709	203019113	The Jesus I Never Knew	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Fresh Look at Jesus	This book served as a natural prelude to the author's next book, WHAT'S SO AMAZING ABOUT GRACE, because Christ dealt with grace so frequently.  Yancey has done his homework for this book, revealing the huge transformation that has occurred in his understanding of Christ over the years, from the flannelgraph and koolaid Christ of his childhood Sunday School classes to the awesome, demanding, enigmatic, yet graceful Christ one meets in the gospels.  This book starts with the assumption that the gospel accounts are accurate, discussing the picture of Christ that emerges from them.  As such, this book is not intended to be a work of literary, form, or redaction criticism.  Yancey is aware of these issues and the disagreements scholars have on these fronts, but these matters fall outside the purview of this book.  I found this book a stimulating and informative reading experience.	1998-04-09
US	52821457	R2MKF23MC9495O	0890090572	671217915	The Original Illustrated Sherlock Holmes	Books	5	6	7	N	N	As good as ever	This fine volume has the original illustrations of Sydney Paget and Arthur Conan Doyle's stories as they originally appeared in The Strand magazine a century ago.  The adventures and pictures are as thrilling as ever, while the mysteries Holmes and his sidekick Dr. Watson tackle have lost none of their allure.  These are most enjoyable tales, full of intrigue that will arouse the reader's curiosity, and this particular edition is nicely complemented by Paget's fine illustrations.	1998-04-09
US	52821457	R3FGLEZF7KZZ96	0836218787	432605012	Scientific Progress Goes 'Boink':  A Calvin and Hobbes Collection	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Funny as always	I love reading Bill Waterson's cartoons.  The  stories, the colors, the amazing faces Calvin makes:  all make for laughter and enjoyment.	1998-04-09
US	52821457	R3NPDGDEVYZ5XB	0836217691	770400434	Homicidal Psycho Jungle Cat: A Calvin and Hobbes Collection	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Another great laughing read	Whether guffawing, chuckling, or musing over Calvin's actions and observations, I found this book hard to put down.	1998-04-09
US	52821457	RD8562K77GNB4	0553213326	256512938	Kim	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Great Adventures	This was a FUN book to read, not just for the many adventures undertaken, nor only for the many fine characters (Huree Babu was my favorite), but also for the smorgasborg of different races and societies depicted from an India around the turn of the century.  Kipling - who spent parts of his life in both England and India - was able to see both eastern and western approaches to life.  His understanding and imagination created this fine novel revolving an adventurous boy's forays.  Happy reading. . .	1998-04-09
US	52821457	R2GSWB1XKG9WUW	0472060309	756311372	Devotions: Upon Emergent Occasions, Together with Death's Duel (Ann Arbor Paperbacks)	Books	4	39	42	N	N	Reflections on illness	First published in 1624, this series of meditations on illness were published following John Donne's sickness during late November and early December of 1623 (when he either had typhus or relapsing fever).  Each of his ruminations are recorded in groups of three:  meditation, expostulation, and prayer.  Donne's insights about the &quot;variable, therefore miserable condition of man&quot; will always be pertinent as long as humans continue to fall prey to disease.  The reading is a little slow at times, but there are some fine pieces in this book, including his famous meditation XVII, &quot;No man is an island&quot;, that Hemingway quoted when he wrote FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS.  Even if you don't read all of the essays, this book is worth obtaining just to pore over meditation XVII.	1998-04-08
US	52821457	R2HQAWVPLA4CSY	0684823802	530210334	Out of the Silent Planet (Space Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Great Stuff	A friend of mine once described his reading experience of OUT OF THE SILENT PLANET by saying, &quot;This kind of stuff really turns my crank.&quot;  I, too, really enjoyed reading this novel.  Lewis had a great imagination, and even though this book came out over 60 years ago, it still has a feeling of contemporary importance to it (a quality that is characteristic of Lewis's writing).	1998-04-08
US	52821457	R23GEOD2RCB20F	0395166209	401852041	The Education of Henry Adams (Riverside Editions)	Books	4	5	9	N	N	Reflective biography of the 19th century	As the grandson of America's sixth president, John Quincy Adams, and great grandson of America's second president, John Adams, Henry Adams was born to a distinguished New England heritage.  His biography recounts the education he received, lamenting the inadequacy of formal schooling in preparing him to live ably during a century of revolutionary technological and philosophical change.  Within his comments are wry insights that sometimes draw a smile from the reader, such as his definition of a schoolmaster:  &quot;A man employed to tell lies to little boys.&quot;  Adams' views are rather cynical and somewhat fatalistic, but they do reflect the grand changes taking place during his lifetime.  I read this book for a lit. class in college, and though most of my classmates found this book a little dull, I found it interesting enough to hold my attention.	1998-04-08
US	52821457	R29FSJXKHRXKPE	0684823829	530210334	Perelandra	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Sensually thrilling but a little slow	In this book, Lewis stimulates the senses with his descriptions of bubble trees, floating islands, colorful skies, beautiful sounds and strange creatures.  (It was a compliment to Lewis when one reader complained of being seasick after reading about the floating islands.)  From the standpoint of imaginative scene painting, Lewis is at his best in PERELANDRA.  His plot involves a wonderful twist on an old story:  the Genesis fall of mankind.  It is no coincidence that Lewis was lecturing on Milton at the same time that he was composing PERELANDRA.  In fact, reading Lewis's PREFACE TO PARADISE LOST, John Milton's PARADISE LOST, and Lewis's PERELANDRA in this order forms a nice trilogy, one I recommend trying.  The chief shortcoming of PERELANDRA is exactly what the reader from Eureka, CA says:  the story drags in the middle.  The action and forward movement of the plot are too slow for my taste.  Lewis's tendancy towards repetitive writing also slows things at times, especially near the very end when he goes through several pages of &quot;praise be he&quot; statements.  Despite these pecadillos, the book is definitely worth reading for the beauty, the intriguing plot, and for background to THAT HIDEOUS STRENGTH.	1998-04-08
US	52821457	R9K9G0JPOAQDD	1561387053	569473707	Sense and Sensibility (Courage Classics)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	See the movie, then read the book	Jane Austen fans are said to be most enthusiastic in their support for her writing, and after reading Sense and Sensibility, I could understand why.  She was a clever lady whose shrewd insight into human nature and English society allowed her to make effective use of satire, and her plots have enough twists and turns to keep the reader interested in what is going to happen next.  The dull, dirty world Austen inhabited has limited appeal to me so I can't say the book was highly attractive (which is part of the reason I ranked it with a 6.)  By way of recommendation, I would encourage a viewing of the movie version to help better understand the book.  Emma Thompson directed a film that I found quite pleasureable.	1998-04-06
US	52821457	R1FI0TBXUAUUL0	0964313707	942489982	Ten Fingers for God: The Life and Work of Dr. Paul Brand	Books	5	38	39	N	N	One of my favorite biographies	From his beginning as the son of English missionary parents working in India, to his schooling in England, marriage, family, further work as a pioneer in leprosy treatment, innovative surgeries, and on to his continued research in America, this book tells the story of a man who has lead an exciting life.  Dr. Brand's humility and ability to adapt to different cultural and environmental conditions both stem from his love for God and God's creation.  Philip Yancey's fine foreword enhances Wilson's portrait of this great man.  Recommended reading.	1998-04-06
US	52821457	R3LH7VR85IMN87	0553212605	502025919	Kidnapped (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Not just for kids	This tale of adventure is sometimes thought of as a children's classic, but the writing seems to be geared more for adults who will also be delighted with this great tale of adventure.  Stevenson has the storyteller's knack for spinning a good yarn, and I think this is one of the more pleasurable novels I've read.  Good plot, fine characters, suspense, and a satisfactory ending will make this an enjoyable reading experience for you, too.	1998-04-06
US	52821457	R3U0O5JF0YRZSN	0877848106	299672701	The Unaborted Socrates: A Dramatic Debate on the Issues Surrounding Abortion	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Socrates questions abortion	In this imaginative work, Socrates is resurrected and finds himself talking with various specialists about the issue of abortion.  The questions he asks are appropriate for considering the ethics of this issue.  A good book for those reflecting on the morality of abortion.	1998-04-06
US	52821457	R3VDWZEBPKR8Q3	055321277X	732800244	Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde (Bantam Classic)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Pretty good, but slow	This book is one of the &quot;classics&quot; that should be read by &quot;everyone&quot; at some point in their lives, but its not attractive enough to merit repeated readings.  I thought the plot was a little slow in developing and the story could have been written with greater economy.  It's an interesting tale of the different aspects of the Self, but as a story, it is so-so.	1998-04-06
US	52821457	RYE1F495IWT7Q	0877843899	750324087	Between Heaven and Hell: A Dialog Somewhere Beyond Death with John F. Kennedy, C. S. Lewis & Aldous Huxley	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A stimulating imaginary conversation	I enjoyed reading this discussion between Huxley, Lewis, and Kennedy, but without any chapter breaks this was a long and ofttimes tedious reading experience.  Kreeft should have broken this book into smaller sections to make it a little more reader friendly.  Nevertheless, it is a valuable dialogue that highlights the various philosophical positions of theist, materialist, and pantheist well.	1998-04-06
US	52821457	RW4R036FHREQU	0877849226	402045215	The Best Things in Life	Books	5	28	28	N	N	A fine Socratic Dialogue	What would happen if Socrates returned to the present, showing up on a college campus over 2,000 years later?  What sorts of things would interest him and what would he think about the modern world?  With fine imagination,  Peter Kreeft explores these questions in a book that discusses issues pertinent to the modern reader's life.  Entertaining and instructive, this book is good for stimulating ethical and moral reflection.	1998-04-06
US	52821457	R3ULI5SW9UFWD2	015676248X	398647291	Reflections on the Psalms (Harvest Book)	Books	5	206	208	N	N	Delightful Reading	It's a shame that so many of the people who enjoy Lewis's theological works never read his enlightening discussion of the Psalms.  This book does not have the polemic approach of some of his other works.  This is (by Lewis's own admission) not a work of scholarship, being more like one schoolboy comparing notes with another in describing the difficulties met and joys gained in reading the Psalms.  Lewis notes that the Psalms are poems, intended to be sung, and not doctrinal treatises on which to base a system of theology.  He selects various psalms for his discussions, enlightening them with his usual good sense, using illustrations from daily life and the literary world.  Lewis's approach is far more helpful than most others who comment on the Psalms and should be read with interest by those familiar with this part of the Bible.	1998-04-05
US	52821457	R2U32KMAWIF3DY	0521296803	985452618	Selected Literary Essays	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Good reading for fans of English Literature	This book is an expansion of Lewis's book THEY ASKED FOR A PAPER (published in 1962) and collects 22 of Lewis's essays on literature together.  Lewis is more interesting on some things than on others, but all in all, this was an enlightening book to read.  Eng. lit. fans and Lewis enthusiasts will be the ones most likely to read this book with pleasure.	1998-04-05
US	52821457	R16P0Z1QGIADMT	0140440100	589882194	The Adventures of Don Quixote (Classics)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Quite humorous	What Monte Python did for the King Arthur legend in their movie &quot;The Search for the Holy Grail&quot;, Cervantes did four hundred years ealier with the entire medieval knighthood tradition of chivalry and fighting.  If you read some of the original stories about &quot;knights errant&quot;, such as Le Morte d'Arthur, you can appreciate to a greater degree Cervantes fine parody.  If you can read Spanish (and I can't) you will also enjoy Cervantes puns throughout the text.  I laughed myself silly while reading this.  Don Quixote is as ridiculous in the adventures he undertakes while looking for his fair lady, Dulcinea, as his shrewd squire Sancho Panza is comically pragmatic.  Together they make an interesting pair.  It's true this is a rather long novel, but the rewards of humor (and occasional wise comments from Sancho) are well worth the time.	1998-04-03
US	52821457	R3GDQ5O2BC044D	002542730X	731224517	Politically Correct Bedtime Stories: Modern Tales for Our Life & Times	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Hilarious satire	These stories were fun to read privately as well as to small group gatherings.  We laughed a lot.  Most enjoyable.  Kudos to Garner for the idea to come up with such a book.	1998-04-03
US	52821457	R3STY022MUA29E	0553213466	289712823	Anna Karenina (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	3	7	N	N	A long novel that pays good dividends for reading	I enjoyed reading the other reviews on this web page.  I, too, found this book a pleasureable reading experience, though it took some patience to stick with a fairly long reading project.  Anna's husband, Karenin, is often overlooked in discussions of this book, except for an occasional comment about the &quot;loveless&quot; marriage he and Anna had.  Yet when Anna walked out to elope with Vronsky, she hurt not only her son but her husband as well; and while this book does deal with contemporary Russian social mores, its focus is really on morality, on choices of the soul, that people like Anna, Vronsky, or Levin make.  Tolstoy shows in this novel that moral choices DO matter, and that these decisions have meaningful consequences.  For Anna, it ended in the tragedy of her suicide.  For Levin, his realization that he truly did love his family, even if he didn't understand all of the metaphysical issues he frequently contemplated.  This is one of those novels that encourages repeated readings, as there is too much food for thought to be adequately digested in one go around.  If you are considering whether or not to purchase this novel, then by all means buy it.  It will give you plenty to think about now and in repeated readings in the years to come.	1998-04-02
US	52821457	R2ZA7SYPHI1YOT	0553280406	112450581	The Walking Drum: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Great Reading	If you like action, historical teaching presented in dramatic style, larger than life heroes, and a good paced plot, this novel is for you.  If L'Amour occasionally makes his protagonist Kerbouchard so knowledgeable and skillful as to be unbelievable, it is understandable, given the high number of things L'Amour teaches the reader on all kinds of subjects.  Fun reading, action packed, and well researched, this is a fine book.	1998-04-01
US	52821457	R2YGKOTFVBZGFJ	0060653183	814773921	Literature Through the Eyes of Faith: Christian College Coalition Series	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A book about why we read	This superb book shows both the limitations and the potential for literature to expand our lives.  Discussion is enhanced by reference to numerous literary examples to demonstrate the authors' points.  This was one of those books that was so good, I found myself wanting to underline almost every paragraph in agreement.  Highly recommended.	1998-03-31
US	52821457	R2O31PO3RVNLZM	0060611413	239825046	Peculiar Treasures	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Quite fun to read	In these short, pithy portraits of 125 Bible characters, Buechner has put together a humorous and entertaining bunch of folks who in most ways are just like ourselves.  Buechner writes with a light touch and his humor gives pizzazz to this book.	1998-03-31
US	52821457	RY6HRHANERVVN	1560531703	990940403	Abernathy's Surgical Secrets (Secrets Series)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Questions and Answers not found in other textbooks	How many times have you taken a written exam, an oral board type test, or been bombarded with questions while on hospital rounds that simple textbook consultation failed to prepare you to handle?  This book is great for medical students doing surgery rotations as well as general surgery residents trying to improve their knowledge base.  I read it twice during my surgery residency and found it quite helpful.  Shell out a few bucks and buy this book.  It's worth it.	1998-03-31
US	52821457	R29H4MGMQR2M4N	0896938239	272969698	Cults, World Religions and the Occult: What They Teach, How to Respond to Them	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Good overview of the world's religions	This book is an updated version of Cults, World Religions, and You, published thirteen years ealier.  It is a good overview about the beliefs of the world's major religions, compared and contrasted with Christianity.  Written from the Christian viewpoint, this book is a helpful aid for understanding the basic tenets of belief shared by those of various faiths around the globe.  The chapters are fairly short and readable.  This book is intended as a general overview for the layman, not a comprehensive encyclopedia.	1998-03-31
US	52821457	R18RWYI1ME6HQO	080410526X	122057176	All I Really Need To Know I Learned In Kindergarten	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Humorous yet thoughtful reflections about life	This book was a pleasure to read, enjoyable both for its thoughtful musings about the world we live in and the author's humor.  His idiosyncracies (such as his practice of not raking leaves or otherwise disturbing the yard with work) are things I either practice myself or else wish I did.  His good sense shines through in the leaves of the book and his often wise observations are not esoteric platitudes but down to earth comments about plain good living.  (I have sometimes seen this book stocked in the religious sections of bookstores, but this seems inapt, given that the author doesn't demonstrate much religious leanings in his writings.)  The chapters are short and easygoing, allowing this book to be read in one or one hundred sittings.	1998-03-31
US	52821457	R1NHU0KMB93U8J	0838514766	178383185	Clinician's Pocket Reference	Books	5	37	37	N	N	Great reference book	I highly recommend this text for third year medical students.  It properly assumes that the third year medical student knows next to nothing about clinical medicine and proceeds to explain abbreviations, commonly used drugs, procedures, protocols on rounds, and a whole host of useful things needed to survive and thrive in the hospital setting.  I used it not only in medical school, but during my residency as well (especially during the first two years), especially when learning critical care medicine.  Definitely shell out a few bucks and buy this book before you start your clinical rotations during medical school.	1998-03-31
US	52821457	R1GE9QAIHC7AUM	0721637809	663483087	Rush University Review of Surgery	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Great question &amp; answer review book	Highly recommended for any general surgery resident, both for studying to increase your knowledge base during residency as well as preparing for boards after you graduate.  Each chapter has a series of multiple choice questions that are immediately followed by answers and a few paragraphs discussion.  I found this didactic format most helpful.	1998-03-31
US	52821457	RH8DZSYL7R9MG	0151519811	232497879	Light on C. S. Lewis	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Good reading for Lewis fans	This book is a collection of articles written by several people who knew Lewis and does indeed shed light on the man C.S. Lewis as well as his writings.  I thought professor John Lawlor's article particularly fine.  Lewis fans will enjoy reading this book.	1998-03-31
US	52821457	R2RXLE2OT29HU0	0553213113	551860371	Moby-Dick (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Good novel, but it drags in parts	I give this book a rating of seven because it is well above average, but it is certainly not close to being the best novel I've ever read.  From the memorable first line, &quot;Call me Ishmael,&quot; the tale and quirky characters hold the reader's attention; but parts of the book are SLOW (including a very long and dreary chapter on cetology.)  It's a good book to read once, but it doesn't encourage repeated readings.	1998-03-31
US	52821457	R3E8VJ4BBDOAQQ	0916122654	934308798	Sequoia and Kings Canyon: The Story Behind the Scenery	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Fine guide for nature lovers	This is one of the books actually sold by the park service at Sequoia National Park in California, so this in itself should speak for its veracity and quality.  The color photographs in this large book are nicely supplemented by a not too long text.  This book is a good overview for those interested in returning to the Sequoia National Park repeatedly.	1998-03-30
US	52821457	R340L2J4LBKU63	0517060922	430331690	Book of Spiders & Scorpions	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent Overview for the layman	This book was a real treat to read.  It was informative without being pedantic, written in language understandable for the interested layman.  There are lots of color photographs and drawings that nicely supplement the text.  Spider and scorpion courtship, mating, digestion, respiration, hunting, and web spinning are all discussed.  A fine book for anyone who is fascinated by these creatures.	1998-03-30
US	52821457	R39KW5DHENDLFF	0684833247	173195196	Co. Aytch: A Confederate Memoir of the Civil War	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Best of the Civil War Memoirs	&quot;I always shot at privates,&quot;  writes Sam Watkins.  &quot;It was they that did the shooting and killing, and if I could kill or wound a private, why, my chances were so much the better.  I always looked upon officers as harmless personages.&quot;  In this and many other ways, Sam Watkins reveals a mixture of home spun humor and common sense.  His memoirs as a confederate in the Civil War are a mixture of reporting, thoughtful reflection, good natured hyperbole, and sad memories.  He lived an amazingly action packed life during those four years, as exciting and full of danger as a modern James Bond, only Sam's story is true.  He was certainly the exception as far as survivors of that many battles go, for of the 120 men enlisted in Company H (&quot;aytch&quot;) in 1861, Sam was one of only 7 still alive when Johnston surrendered to Sherman on April 26, 1865, testimony to the sad attrition caused by the war.  But no bitterness is found in these memoirs, only a gratefulness for having survived the conflict and vivid (if not always exact) memories of what it was like to be &quot;a poor old Rebel webfoot private soldier in those stormy days and times.&quot;  I feel these memoirs are among the best produced by those who survived America's bloodiest conflict and can recommend them unreservedly.	1998-03-29
US	52821457	R9VL8N8MJBRXI	0553274295	375745868	Where the Red Fern Grows	Books	4	2	6	N	N	A good (but not great) novel	My father's family is from Tahlequah, Oklahoma (the town where Billy picked up Old Dan and Little Ann) and after spending some of my boyhood in the Ozarks and seeing the movie when it came out in the 70's, I picked up this book expecting to read a story that would evoke strong nostalgic memories for me.  It was nostalgic to some extent, but I was a little disappointed.  Billy seemed like an overly sensitive kid who cried a lot, and he showed no compunction in cutting down beautiful trees so he could kill a trapped animal, although he could also be resourceful and courageous at times.  I also thought the story was a little slow in developing.  It was sad for Billy to see his two dogs die after fighting with the mountain lion, but the dogs were the ones who initiated the contact, ultimately receiving the same treatment they had  been harshly dealing out to raccoons for quite some time, so I felt no pity for them.  The most appealing portions of Rawls' tale include a fine introduction, Billy's determination to earn enough money to buy the dogs, and the interactions with his beloved grandfather.  Overall, it was a good novel, but not the best I've read.	1998-03-27
US	52821457	R5RZJ760VKBDH	0156738406	271128307	Present Concerns	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Short essays about a variety of topics	This collection of writings about a variety of topics (published for the first time in book form) was a pleasure to read.  Walter Hooper has done his usual fine job of editing these essays, which partially answer the question, &quot;Well what other sorts of things was Lewis interested in besides literature and theology?&quot;  As the title suggests, the things that caught Lewis's attention continue to be present concerns for our world today.	1998-03-27
US	52821457	R305NM7IVH8KYU	0684823837	21086024	The Problem of Pain (C.S. Lewis Classics)	Books	4	28	31	N	N	A good place to start	There are better books about the theological problem of pain (the biblical book of JOB, Paul Brand's  PAIN: THE GIFT NOBODY WANTS, and Philip Yancey's WHERE IS GOD WHEN IT HURTS?, to name three), but Lewis's book is a good place to start.  Lewis himself makes it clear in the introduction that this book only addresses the intellectual problem arising from suffering, and as such does not pretend to give advice about living with pain.  Lewis offers this by way of observation, that &quot;when pain is to be borne, a little courage helps more than much knowledge, a little human sympathy more than much courage, and the least tincture of the love of God more than all.&quot;  As a catalyst for considering the theological difficulty of resolving the idea of a good God with the pain and suffering in His creation, this book is worth reading.	1998-03-27
US	52821457	R4HNPFB2EKFMZ	0815114974	586384462	Current Surgical Therapy	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Best book to review for boards	This text is the working man's guide to surgery, with a practical hands on approach that I find rare among surgical texts.  It is a great source to read in preparing for general surgery board examinations, too.  I highly recommend it.	1998-03-27
US	52821457	R2PUKVJ70GQ2J1	0006382568	30834727	Rare Air: Michael on Michael	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Nicely done	This is an oversized book with excellent photography, especially given some of the tricky lighting involved.  Jordan's comments are candid, although he did write that once he left the game of basketball, he wouldn't come back.  Basketball fans can rejoice that in this estimate, Jordan was wrong.	1998-03-26
US	52821457	R2Z5ZYCU017ZR7	080281428X	464583078	Letters to an American Lady	Books	3	2	7	N	N	Informal and easy going correspondence	This correspondence between Lewis and an American lady was neither of poor nor outstanding quality.  Average reading.	1998-03-26
US	52821457	RB5UGVHCM9ORS	0020223404	850680941	The Letters of C.S. Lewis to Arthur Greeves, 1914-1963	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Excellent letters of Lewis's readings, thinkings and doings	C.S. Lewis believed that letters should be about a person's readings, thinkings, and doings, and this nearly half century of correspondence between Lewis and his friend Arthur Greeves richly fulfils all three of these areas.  Only a few letters are by Greeves, the rest being Lewis's correspondence to him.  Walter Hooper has done a fine job in ordering these letters and writing a fine introduction to fill in the background for these two.  The letters are often funny, sometimes pensive, and usually insightful, but they are never dull.  I enjoyed them greatly.	1998-03-26
US	52821457	R1CMZZ09JT70AA	0345377060	548734317	The Search for God at Harvard	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Informative, cogent, and enjoyable to read	I found Ari Goldman's book to be highly enjoyable and hard to put down.  As a Christian, it helped me better understand Judaism, and it was refreshing to see someone like Goldman who stood by his religious convictions (e.g. Sabbath observances, dietary practices) while still actively interacting in society.  It was also nice to see that the religion reporter from the New York Times would be willing to take a year's sabbatical in order to better understand the other religions he is asked to cover for his job.  In a way, this work is like a book of comparative religions, only reported from a personalized viewpoint (which makes it eminently more readable than the dry, &quot;objective&quot; and depersonalized accounts so often offered to us in our book world.)  Highly recommended.	1998-03-25
US	52821457	R1L2ZS0TH4XDBH	0836204387	667860921	Calvin & Hobbes Books, Tenth Anniversary Book	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Behind the scenes look at Calvin &amp; Hobbes	This enlightening book about the history behind those zany Calvin &amp; Hobbes cartoons is nicely done.  I enjoyed reading the commentary and laughing at the cartoons.  Most Calvin &amp; Hobbes fans will enjoy reading this book.	1998-03-25
US	52821457	R2CE59COESW1RA	0312148216	625429269	Toad Triumphant	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Not as good as the first two	I thought the original Wind in the Willows and the sequel Willows in Winter were better executed than Toad Triumphant.  Toad Triumphant is a little disjointed, the characterization a little unbelievable at times (e.g. mole's depression) and the story sags in parts (although things pick up with Horwood's clever ending).  On the other hand, Patrick Benson deserves high marks for his excellent illustrations which accompany the text.  I suppose Mr. Horwood wanted to try something a little different by delving into the histories of the river bank animals and bringing romantic love into their world, but I don't believe this approach worked as well.  I feel the book is better than average, but as I said, I like Kenneth Grahame's orginal and Horwood's first sequel better.	1998-03-25
US	52821457	R3KMSG4UWRQ0PB	0140129863	316220758	Native American Testimony: A Chronicle of Indian-White Relations from Prophecy to the Present	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The seldom told stories of our history	Nabokov has done a superb job of collecting individual Native American memoirs from the last half millenium and weaving them together to paint the sad portrait of Indian-White relations.  In between the tales from each successive time period in history is enlightening commentary, usually an historical overview of the period written by the editor.  These commentaries help give a unity to this work.  But this is not simply a bad guys vs. good guys book.  Nabokov's stories reflect the complexity involved among Native Americans who frequently disagreed with each other about what would be the best path to trod for all concerned; and they also tell the stories of proud peoples who continued to survive and carry on.  This book illuminates history in a way that most school textbooks do not.	1998-03-24
US	52821457	R1UAD7HIAJKYBS	0140390510	165741225	Up from Slavery: An Autobiography (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An ex-slave's biography	Booker T. Washington wrote a lively narrative of his life that deserves our attention today.  The first couple of pages are startling for the nonchalant way he relates that he doesn't know the year of his birth, nor the exact location, nor with certainty who his father was.  He does, on the other hand, describe the tiny dimensions to the cabin where he lived and what life was like for the slaves.  Washington went on from these humble beginnings to a fine education and a life of meritoriously helping fellow negroes to improve their education and vocational endeavors.  This book is a good reminder of the stark conditions and large barriers present for slaves making the transition to free members of society following the Civil War.	1998-03-24
US	52821457	R3CMY53B2GT7EC	0826308791	705634002	The Education of Little Tree	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A good fictional story.	The 27 reviews that preceded mine were enlightening.  My thanks to the reviewers for the author background and text commentary.  My ranking is based on the story itself, a fine piece of fiction that turned out to be far more enjoyable to read than I expected.	1998-03-24
US	52821457	R3QBGLO7MBEQEA	0521398312	503087432	Studies in Words (Canto)	Books	4	71	73	N	N	Etymology of 11 words/phrases	This book traces the changes to the meanings of eleven words over the centuries:  nature, sense, sad, wit, free, simple, conscience and conscious, world, life, and 'I dare say'.  This book may be a little too specialized for the general reader, but it is not so esoteric that it cannot be read with pleasure by anyone interested in word meanings.  Even though I'm no student of English literature or etymology, I did enjoy reading this book.	1998-03-21
US	52821457	R2SS9LE18X8W9K	0830702253	642296441	The Old Testament in Living Pictures: A Photo Guide to the Old Testament	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A fine pictorial guide to the ancient near east	Picture books are often helpful for understanding and bringing subjects to life, and this one is no exception.  The stories from the Bible come alive with this imagery, and this book is helpful to children and adults alike.	1998-03-21
US	52821457	R12DS7XB6FCGNY	0840743793	617144895	Evidence That Demands A Verdict Vol. 2	Books	5	57	69	N	N	Volume II:  better for referencing than reading	This book (formerly called MORE EVIDENCE THAT DEMANDS A VERDICT) is heavier reading than MORE EVIDENCE, Vol. 1, and is more amenable to using as a resource, for selective perusal of topics, rather than reading it all the way through.  (You can read it cover to cover, but it's not easy.)  This second volume addresses things like archaeology, form criticism, literary criticism, and historical research into the claims of the Bible.  Volume I deals more with the life of Christ and New Testament events.	1998-03-20
US	52821457	R2XSM5GYBRNKTM	0840743785	617144895	001: Evidence That Demands a Verdict, Volume 1: Historical Evidences for the Christian Faith	Books	5	4	9	N	N	Thoroughly researched	This and the companion volume that McDowell has made constitute a thoroughly researched and well packaged presentation of the claims for the truths and beliefs of Christianity.  This is a book of apologetics, so is intended to explain Christianity and the claims of Christ in a persuasive manner.  I think it is about as good as any Christian apologetic work out on the market.	1998-03-20
US	52821457	R3PGOSHFWHKVGN	0310486726	823912390	Sometimes Mountains Move ( A Revised Edition)	Books	5	33	33	N	N	Compassionately written, honest, and moving	In late April of 1968, a college student and experienced climber named David Koop died when a portion of the rock sheered off the mountain he was climbing.  The death was devastating to his friends and close knit family.  In their grief and attempts to understand what happened, C. Everett Koop - chief of pediatric surgery at the Children's Hospital in Philadelphia and later Surgeon General of the United States - and his wife give a moving account of their faith in God and how that faith has sustained their family's loss throughout the years.  This slim volume (96 pages) is poignant, honest, and strangely comforting to the reader.  I was moved by this book and can recommend it without reservation.	1998-03-19
US	52821457	R1V96XVD9DEREI	1557488118	963630731	The Screwtape Letters	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fun to read	Interestingly enough, this is one of Lewis's more popular books, yet it was the only one he did not enjoy composing.  Constantly making wrong look right, good look bad, and turning things &quot;upside down&quot; eventually grew wearisome for the author.  Fortunately, none of that weariness shows through in this penetrating and often humorous look at human nature.  Short chapters (letters) make this book easy to read, too.  There is a timeless quality about the subjects Screwtape raises in the letters to his nephew, Wormwood, that will keep this book &quot;contemporary&quot; for ages.	1998-03-19
US	52821457	R12KAS2M60H9A8	0374512671	704443977	The Sabbath	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A thoughtful commentary on a day of rest	I give this fine, slim volume high marks for readability and fine insight.  Heschel's comments are written for the lay reader and provide ample food for thought.  Among other things, Heschel reminds his readers that the higher goal of spiritual living is not to amass a wealth of information but to face sacred moments.  This is a good piece of tempering advice for those of us involved in scholarly pursuits.	1998-03-19
US	52821457	R2CN9FZGBAIFZM	0140440275	903822584	The Imitation of Christ (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A 15th century monk's devotional thoughts	This book is a collection of short devotional thoughts written by Thomas a Kempis.  He shows fine insight in his spiritual teachings and the deepest truths he discusses are as pertinent to the spiritual life now as they were over 500 years ago.  Recommended reading.	1998-03-19
US	52821457	R3DAQ7IVTI36W8	0813332893	568367162	001: The Gulag Archipelago, 1918-1956: An Experiment in Literary Investigation (Volume One)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An candid look at the Soviet penal system	This stark revelation of the Soviet gulags (jails) during the communist regime is an amazing achievement of memory and dedicated work.  Solzhenitsyn deserves the highest marks for his work, both for its revealing nature as well as its painstaking attempt to account for the events inside this archipelago of prisons that stretched across the Soviet empire.  Solzhenitsyn's pronouncements and thoughtful interpretations make this more than just a listing of horrors, giving the readers the stories involved.  The writing is terse and somewhat rough, perhaps due in part to this being a translation from the Russian, but partially owing to Solzhenitsyn's rough hewn style as well.  In all, enlightening and terrifying reading.	1998-03-18
US	52821457	RHQ5520G7P3VH	0451171357	85902037	The Agony and the Ecstasy: A Biographical Novel of Michelangelo	Books	5	0	1	N	N	History comes to life	I'm not someone who reads much historical fiction, nor do I take much interest in painting and sculpting, but this book overcame all my disinterests and swept me along in the creative process of the genius, Michelangelo.  Stone has written an outstanding book, based on extensive research, that really makes history come to life.  Pictures of Michelangelo's creations would have been a nice added bonus, but the text itself stimulates our imaginations and carries us into the world Michelangelo inhabited.  Wonderful reading.	1998-03-18
US	52821457	R67QFDSU71G50	0704333791	64102314	The Flying Scotsman	Books	4	17	17	N	N	A look at the life of Eric Liddell	If you enjoyed the Oscar winning movie Chariots of Fire, you will probably also enjoy this biography of Eric Liddell, the Scottish sprinter whose refusal to run on a Sunday - even in the Olympics - drew headlines.  More than just a successful athlete (who did win the Olympic gold medal in the 400 meters in world record time), Liddell was a man of strong character and religious convictions.  His selfless actions were a constant source of inspiration to others.  This book is neither boring nor long and can be read with pleasure.	1998-03-18
US	52821457	R2LBJWH3VOBCK	0451523105	705074922	One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich (Signet classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fiction, but characteristically true	This fine novel about a day in the life of a prisoner in the soviet penal system is short enough to be read in one or two sittings and vivid enough to paint a realistic picture of many a soviet gulag's hapless inhabitants.	1998-03-18
US	52821457	RMPOSECROC7HS	0310214696	72232602	Gifted Hands: The Ben Carson Story	Books	5	127	142	N	N	A Gifted Neurosurgeon's Biography	Dr. Ben Carson is living proof that we are NOT mere products of our environments.  He overcame a broken home, bad temper, and racial inequality to become a great man, loving father, and famous Chief of Pediatric Neurosurgery at Johns Hopkins in Baltimore, MD.  In this well paced, informative biography, Carson speaks about the different goals he set for himself throughout his productive life and how he, through patience, hard work, and faith in God, went about achieving them.  This was an enjoyable biography, an unusually humble one from someone in the medical profession who has earned every right to brag about his achievements, yet who deliberately avoids doing so.  You will enjoy reading this book.	1998-03-18
US	52821457	R7WB0DE2KY6TX	0830709258	720864877	Eternity in Their Hearts: Startling Evidence of Belief in the One True God in Hundreds of Cultures Throughout the World	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Thoughtful and well argued	Former Papua New Guinea missionary Don Richardson believes that as God has prepared the gospel for all peoples, so he has prepared all peoples for the gospel.  This book examines the examples Richardson has found around the globe of people whose cultural background had prepared them to openly receive the gospel, and suggests that all people have a sense of God's existence.  The title of the book comes from Ecclesiastes 3:11 which suggests the same thing, that God has 'placed eternity' in people's hearts, so that they will seek Him.  While I accept some of Richardson's conclusions with a grain of salt, I think he has done a fine job of researching the matter and providing a catalyst for discussion of this intriguing proposition.	1998-03-17
US	52821457	R2NMXVNDPIBOFK	0830704159	203228726	Peace Child	Books	5	30	32	N	N	A thrilling story from stone age New Guinea	I have had the good fortune of reading this book (twice), seeing the film, and hearing Don Richardson in person tell this story, and have been thrilled by each vehicle of communication (though I think Richardson's personal telling probably the most vivid.)  The Sawi of New Guinea were a people still living at a stone age level when Richardson and his family went to live with them in the early 1960s, and their bizarre cultural customs make for fascinating reading.  Their most developed form of treachery was betrayal, to 'fatten an enemy with friendship' before murderously turning on them.  When Richardson told the Sawi the story of Christ's life, the real hero to emerge was Judas Iscariot, who had betrayed his close friend.  Things changed among the Sawi when Richardson found how they stopped their wars through the means of a Peace Child, exchanged between warring tribes for adoption and peace.  Read this fascinating account of what happened next.	1998-03-17
US	52821457	R21DY6X8RA0Y3N	0060973684	97978976	Awakenings	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Mesmerizing	What is it like to be nearly frozen in time?  To have your whole sense of time radically changed, so that an action that takes 3 hours in real time for an encephalitis lethargica patient is perceived by that person as taking but a moment to complete?  Sacks explores this and other phenomena in a provocative, compassionate look at the people trapped inside of their own diseased bodies.  Recommended reading.	1998-03-17
US	52821457	R340M8H3BG9D0L	0060631120	67967421	Shantung Compound: The Story of Men and Women Under Pressure	Books	4	41	42	N	N	A candid look at human nature	Langdon Gilkey's account of his internment at the Shantung Compound in China during WW II paints a vivid picture of what humans are like:  and it is not pretty.  Selfish, base, mean spirited, quarrelsome - it didn't seem to matter what anyone's ideology consisted of, for the most part people acted in whatever ways promoted their own self interest.  (One notable exception was Eric &quot;Ridley&quot; (Eric Liddell), the Olympic gold medalist in track whose story was featured years later in the film Chariots of Fire.  His unselfishness was notable for being so unique in this camp.)  Gilkey makes insightful comments about law and human nature based on his observations, concluding that laws are not made to abstractly state what is right and what is wrong, but are implemented to restrain destructive self-interested behavior and turn socially impoverishing habits into socially constructive ones.  I didn't agree with everything Gilkey said, but this book is an eye opener and definitely worth reading.	1998-03-17
US	52821457	R1KQVX0IC1AF4G	0830705295	47097075	Lords of the Earth	Books	5	20	23	N	N	Exotic location for exciting adventures	This was an exciting book to read, not just for the exotic setting in remote Irian Jaya, not just for the odd social Yali customs, not just for the bravery and determination of the missionaries who lived among these cannibalistic people, but because Richardson is a superb storyteller who knows how to blend fascinating tales with a good dash of suspense.  It took very little effort to read this book as I was so caught up in the story that it was hard to put down.  Recommended reading.	1998-03-17
US	52821457	R3Q42VC2ZUZO1Z	0310213274	924964975	What's So Amazing About Grace?	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Grace:  What Christians have to offer	The C.S. Lewis anecdote Yancey tells captures the essence of what is unique about Christianity:  Grace.  As usual, Yancey does not discuss this issue in a removed-from-real-life, abstract theological fashion, but offers living examples of how grace can make a difference.  This book receives an 8 instead of a 10 because it does not tackle what is the hardest practical problem in dispensing grace:  finding the balance of grace vs. justice.  It's a struggle that every parent regularly faces and something that society constantly encounters.  &quot;Do we punish or forgive?&quot;  &quot;If we forgive everything, are we not promoting anarchy?&quot;  These are tough issues that require thoughtful application.  I certainly profited from reading this book, but because of this shortcoming, I think it a 'good' rather than 'great' treatment of the issue of grace.	1998-03-16
US	52821457	RKAPJJ6BQKJ8C	0060675071	193000446	Living in Sin?: A Bishop Rethinks Human Sexuality	Books	1	23	79	N	N	An atheistic view of sexuality	Spong may indeed be a member of the cloth, but if you want to know how an atheist views sexuality, read this book.  I found his approach dishonest and his judgment poor.  Why pretend to be something you're not (as Spong does when he pretends to represent the Christian view)?  There are certainly far better books about human sexuality to be found on the market.  Skip this one.	1998-03-16
US	52821457	R3APIDF5348FF9	0802812201	24389965	Descent into Hell: A Novel	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Abstruse, but he gets his point across	Charles Williams' writing has been described as &quot;clotted glory&quot;, an appropriate label for someone who writes 'spiritual thrillers' with a good deal of obscurity in the text.  There were two things I found particularly intriguing about DESCENT INTO HELL.  One was the idea of taking on another's sufferings on one's own behalf, a sort of vicarious suffering made possible through sacrifice.  The second was the actualization of self-centeredness, the self-absorption that ultimately leads to damnation, like a man who refuses freedom by clinging to a rope as he slowly makes a descent into hell.  Overall, the book was a little better than average, though the imagery is quite potent.	1998-03-16
US	52821457	R161GTWUVH7HP2	0684823756	273762432	George Macdonald: An Anthology : 365 Readings	Books	1	3	53	N	N	You can't make a silk purse out of a sow's ear	I have never enjoyed the writings of George MacDonald, and even though Lewis tried to select &quot;the best of&quot; with his anthology, I did not benefit from reading this book.  The fine introduction by Lewis is what prevents this book from receiving a rating of 1.  Don't bother buying this unless you want to read what Lewis wrote.	1998-03-16
US	52821457	R1DN3ZR7WHWCZ1	0061042498	141815545	Koop: The Memoirs of America's Family Doctor	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Anything but boring	C. Everett Koop is a man of strong opinions and firm actions, yet who places high value in attempting to be fair in his judgments.  This book of memoirs tells the story of a courageous and admirable man's career, focusing most of the text on his eight years as surgeon general.  I found the book very easy to read, not tedious or pedantic, and I give it a rating of 9 instead of a 10 because I wish he would have devoted a little more space to his career in pediatric surgery (which lasted 35 years).  It's good reading.	1998-03-16
US	52821457	RPYOQZ42BC1TD	0687069807	710961034	The Christian Agnostic (Abingdon Classics)	Books	1	15	74	N	N	Nice try, but the book's a failure	While Christians do doubt, and Agnostics do wonder, can anyone truly be a &quot;Christian Agnostic&quot;?  The terms 'Christian' and 'Agnostic' seem to be mutually exclusive when one is describing a position of religious belief.  Weatherhead's ambivalence and misreading of biblical texts mars the occasional insightful comment he renders.  I am sympathetic to his openness in questioning and discussing these issues, but he seems poorly read and very underinformed in resource consultation.  The word 'uneducated' is perhaps a bit too harsh to give to someone who has their doctorate, so perhaps 'limited education' would better describe why Dr. Weatherhead has not authored a successful book.	1998-03-16
US	52821457	R2EXF3CWZ5FL8L	0451521951	543411005	The Count of Monte Cristo (Signet Classics)	Books	4	24	34	N	N	Great Story; A reworking of a TRUE tale	Sorry to disappoint the previous reviewer, but when Dumas wrote this book, the ideas and plot were not new, not fresh, and certainly not original.  Robert Wilson clearly outlines the history in his introduction to the book.  &quot;In 1838 a police archivist named Jacques Peuchet published six volumes of crime stories taken from the files of the Paris police.  In one file was the story of a young shoemaker from Nimes who in 1807 became engaged to marry a rich and beautiful orphan, but because of a despicable practical joke played by four jealous friends was falsely arrested as a spy for the English against Napoleon and imprisoned until the empire fell in 1814.  While in prison he had met a dying Italian priest who told him where a great treasure was buried.  Upon his release he found the treasure and, using various disguises, cold-bloodedly wreaked his vengeance on those responsible for his misfortune, one of whom had married his fiancee.  When Dumas read the story, he knew he wanted to retell it.  That real-life melodrama is, pretty nearly, The Count of Monte Cristo in outline.&quot;  There is also an island named Montecristo that Dumas found enchanting, so very little of this novel is &quot;original&quot; or &quot;creative&quot; material.  On the other hand, this should not deter anyone from reading the book because the story itself is fascinating, easily holding the reader's attention.  A movie of this tale was made several years ago, starring Richard Chamberlain, and complements the book nicely.  I enjoyed both the book and the movie and happily recommend both.	1998-03-13
US	52821457	R3JL8GBRL9G4MF	0140440259	773663287	The Three Musketeers	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Lots of fighting, courage, and intrigue	After encountering this story first through television and then in films, it was a pleasure to read the original novel, which is full of bold and venturesome drama.  The characters are vivid (sometimes foolish, ofttimes arrogant, but never dull) and the tales fast paced.  There is even a surprising twist in the turn of events near the end.  Dumas wrote a good book that is lots of fun to read.	1998-03-12
US	52821457	RZJ5VMOVKHDGC	0517467321	329601471	The Kennedys	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Candid, thoroughly researched look at the Kennedys	Peter Collier and David Horowitz have done their homework in creating this candid portrait of the Kennedy family.  Written with neither malice nor favoritism, this book is about as honest a look at the Kennedy family as one can buy.  As they write well, it was a pleasure to read (with photographs and a family tree included, too).	1998-03-12
US	52821457	R1BLB0U46LWDTE	0192815377	569572839	Life of Johnson: Unabridged (The World's Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	My favorite biography	I enjoyed reading this biography very much, finding Boswell an amazingly adroit reporter and his subject fascinating and wise.  Johnson was full of shrewdness and good sense, along with amusing biases and unusual mannerisms, just the sort of person to ask to liven up a dinner.  The book is both humorous and moving, written in a lively style, and good for repeated readings through the years.	1998-03-11
US	52821457	R1NH264FEOYHE	0851117236	141731593	Introduction to the Old Testament	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Best introduction to the Old Testament	If you want a quick and easy intro to the Old Testament, do not buy this book, as it is long and detailed.  If you are a serious student of the scriptures who wants as good of an intro as possible to aid your understanding of the Old Testament, then this is the book for you.  This is one of the few academic works about which I can actually say that it made a true difference in my confidence about the truth of Christianity.  Highly recommended.	1998-03-10
US	52821457	R1WY3LBSIEQXMR	0671250884	467594726	Marathoning	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A good book for a Bill Rodgers fan	This book is a combination of biography and running advice that was enjoyable for a Bill Rodgers fan like myself to read.	1998-03-10
US	52821457	R3NWOITK9FXRT7	0425124347	448060127	The Bad Place	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Good, though disjointed story	Koontz writes well, but his method of simultaneously discussing several ongoing stories through very short chapters makes for a fragmented tale.  The disjointed approach prevents the story from &quot;flowing&quot; smoothly along.  He ties everything together nicely in the end, but it takes a little patience to make it through the first portion of the book.  One area where Koontz does succeed is in keeping the reader's curiosity up, as he creates and sustains the desire to find out what happens to everyone in the end.  Overall, it was nice light reading.	1998-03-04
US	52821457	R3RGRHMER1W6F0	0684818868	458361116	Lies My Teacher Told Me : Everything Your American History Textbook Got Wrong	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Fascinating, well researched, and well written	Loewen's book is good at not only giving a mini-history education in and of itself, but in pointing out the reasons  WHY history is taught so poorly and not enjoyed by most students.  He has thoroughly footnoted his chapters and carefully addressed the inaccuracies/omitted episodes from high school history texts.  This is an excellent book, receiving a 9 instead of a 10 only because he is occasionally a little impractical - preferring, for example, to think that children tell Helen Keller jokes to deflate a symbol too good to be true (rather than for the pure pleasure of telling cruel jokes) and believing America's Civil War was won with superior political ideology rather than gunpowder, supplies, and battles.  (The title of his discussion on the Civil War ought to be &quot;Fantasyland:  An ivory tower view of war&quot;).  Remembering that NO history book is going to be written without some bias (even Loewen's), it is a pleasure to recommend this fine book for correction of errant historical perceptions and stimulation to learn more about American history.	1998-03-04
US	52821457	RN3S9GCHD3MRY	0061043494	769540204	Gaudy Night (Lord Peter Wimsey Mysteries)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	An excellent mystery novel	After reading this excellent novel, it was easy to understand Dorothy Sayers' popularity as a writer.  Lucid, intelligent, witty, and perceptive, this novel was a pleasure to read.  Besides a good plot and interesting characters, the Oxford setting and the fascinating activities of academia were added bonuses.  Recommended reading.	1998-03-04
US	52821457	R161NVMRVHLPWW	0060915188	167052672	An American Childhood	Books	3	6	9	N	N	A collage of unusual childhood pictures	It took me three attempts to finally make it all the way through this book.  The problem is not the vignettes, which are often amusing, but the fact that the book lacks cohesion.  On the first page of the book, Dillard says, &quot;the story begins&quot;.  But she is wrong.  This is not a story.  This is a collage, a scrapbook of snapshots from her youth that lacks the unity of a good biography.  Many readers of the book enjoyed this sort of format, but I found it prohibitive.  Once I finally made it through to the end (on the third try), I enjoyed the experience, but it was a struggle early on in the book to keep going.	1998-03-03
US	52821457	R22PJYACBC9JW0	0310517818	858732473	Disappointment with God	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Honest and insightful	No book is going to deal with the problem of pain more eloquently than the book of Job.  Yancey's book, however, complements Job nicely.  People find Yancey's writings helpful because he is candid, articulate, well read, and as much as anything, practical, preferring to tackle our real disappointments and doubts rather than glossing them over with a coat of theological chutzpah.  Like many titles, this book grew out of Yancey's real life encounters, in this case a graduate student who showed up in his Chicago apartment one day in a simmering rage against God.  Yancey's book explores and suggests explanations to help us find our way in life, even when we don't understand.  Strongly recommended.	1998-03-03
US	52821457	R26EQO3XSOG0N	0891073906	145017176	This Present Darkness	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Good story, average writing	Peretti's storytelling skills carry the day for this book, and it's a good thing because his writing skills are average.  His characters are too predictable - what some people call &quot;flat&quot; or &quot;two dimensional&quot; - while the jargon and cliches that permeate the conversations grow old quickly.  Overall, this was a fairly good novel, but not one that encourages a second reading.	1998-03-03
US	52821457	R1ANCV6HB3EUTS	0140243194	274495222	The Medusa and the Snail: More Notes of a Biology Watcher	Books	3	8	23	N	N	Enjoyable at times	I thought his first volume of essays - THE LIVES OF A CELL - was more interesting, but there are still some essays here that will stimulate the reader to ponder the biology Thomas discusses.	1998-03-03
US	52821457	R3F67LRWCWCZDZ	0679755187	542049707	Cleopatra's Nose: Essays on the Unexpected	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Overly optimistic, but interesting essays	Boorstin himself admits that he continues to be very optimistic  about mankind's future, despite all the horrors that go on in the world, and this gives a slightly euphemistic tone to his essays.  Still, they are quite informative and I enjoyed reading them.	1998-03-03
US	52821457	RVNV8J9Y044RU	0156232057	956616020	C. S. Lewis: A Biography,Revised Edition	Books	4	22	24	N	N	An entertaining biography	Although I think George Sayer's JACK the best of the C.S. Lewis biographies available, Green and Hooper's book is also good, with the added advantage that both men knew their subject personally.  Their book complements Sayer's and is worth obtaining for Lewis fans.  It is certainly better than Wilson's biography of Lewis, though without quite the achievement of Sayer's book.	1998-03-03
US	52821457	R2QYJAD1EMQ3DM	0891077618	34184436	Jack: A Life of C. S. Lewis	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Best biography of Lewis available	George Sayer, a former Lewis pupil who later became one of his friends, has written a fine biography of the man whose books of literary history, children's adventure story, science fiction, Christian apologetics, poetry, ethics essays, and novels are still having a pronounced influence on readers.  Filled with Lewis's family background, packed with anecdotes, and containing critiques of Lewis and his books, this book should be interesting for readers of any age.  Definitely worth buying.	1998-03-02
US	52821457	R3O1MT1I5AH2K9	0449906094	178267094	C.S. Lewis	Books	2	11	16	N	N	An uneven, untrustworthy biography	It was very strange reading Wilson's biography.  At times, he seems very insightful and wise, with helpful and true comments about Lewis's character, his relationship to friends and household members, and his books.  At other times, he seems like an educated fool, quoting things out of context, reading things INTO Lewis's life and works that aren't really there, misrepresenting facts, creating fictional sources, or making up comments to be presented as truth.  Although Wilson sometimes presents many individual parts of Lewis well, the composite figure does not add up.  As George Sayer - Lewis's friend of nearly 3 decades - noted, at times the portrait of Lewis is almost unrecognizable.  There are better biographies of Lewis available.  Skip this one.	1998-03-02
US	52821457	R1GCXI2SMCA4YN	088270544X	588002047	In Search of C.S. Lewis	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Interesting reading for Lewis fans	Stephan Schofield did a great deal of work in garnering this collection of interviews, essays, and letters.  Most of the chapters are memoirs by those who knew Lewis, either as pupils or as colleagues.  Several intriguing anecdotes emerge from these pieces, and the book is balanced since the contributors are quite candid, giving Lewis both praise and censure.  For those interested in C.S. Lewis, this is fun to read.  Unfortunately, Bridge Publishers did a poor job putting the book together, with numerous typos, editing errors (such as combining letters from two people into one), and small type.  Still, if you can look past these pecadillos, this is an enjoyable book.	1998-03-02
US	52821457	RPEHXEIM4XTKT	0394726251	301838580	The Discoverers: A History of Man's Search to Know His World and Himself	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Great writing, but it does have shortcomings	Boorstin's amazingly thorough and eminently readable account of 'Man the Discoverer' was a pleasure to read.  Instructive without being pedantic, this approach offers history writing at its best.  There are few shortcomings, though, that prevent it from a '10' rating.  Lack of illustrations limits the book's effectiveness:  many geographic areas Boorstin mentions are not commonly known, so maps would be helpful; and complex concepts (such as the &quot;escapement mechanism&quot; in time pieces) are not successfully explained in words, and desparately need pictures to demonstrate what he is talking about.  Boorstin is also extremely limited in his discussions of discovery in the 20th century.  Einstein is barely mentioned, powered flight isn't discussed, communication revolutions of discovery such as telephone, radio, or television aren't covered, and no mention is made of computers nor the amazing things we've discovered with their use.  This does not prevent Boorstin from giving an inordinate amount of attention to other 20th century figures such as Freud in psychiatry or Keynes in economics.  (Are these things really &quot;discoveries&quot; in the same sense as the other things he covers in the book??)  Overall, this is a fine book, but it could be better.	1998-03-02
US	52821457	RM28ZYGN4S9S3	0820312290	805829013	Lee's Tarnished Lieutenant: James Longstreet and His Place in Southern History (Brown Thrasher Books Ser.)	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Apologetics:  Justifying the ways of Longstreet to man	This book reads like the doctoral dissertation of a graduate student:  copious footnotes carefully documenting statements, and a thesis with &quot;point&quot; to be made.  The writing, however, is not bone dry like many academic endeavors are, and this book is nicely crafted.  Longstreet probably alienated many people with his irascible nature, but I do think he was justified in saying the same things that Lee himself said about Gettysburg:  the decision to make Pickett's Charge was Lee's, against Longstreet's advice, and Lee properly took the blame for the defeat.  Civil War enthusiasts will enjoy this book.	1998-03-01
US	52821457	R2A9RO65VD1LZO	059043389X	474714897	The Adventures Of Huckleberry Finn (Apple Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent reading	This book is superb in a number of ways, including good storytelling, fine characters, a coherent plot, commentary on human nature and society, as well as a remarkably fine display of the various dialects heard in the south.  I enjoyed reading it in gradeschool because of the interesting adventures Huck had, and I enjoyed reading it as an adult for all the reasons mentioned in the last sentence.  This is one of the best novels I've come across, and deserves repeated readings.	1998-02-28
US	52821457	R2B004LYQZP9HK	0060976519	568183119	The Language Instinct: How the Mind Creates Language	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Fascinating, but certainly not &quot;light reading&quot;	This book was instructive, well written, fascinating, and mostly comprehensible.  I say &quot;mostly&quot; comprehensible because the detail required to discuss something as complex as language means that the reader is asked to remember and understand all those school terms from writing class that most of us quickly forget - case, nominative, accusative, prepositions, phonemes, indirect objects, participles, auxiliaries, articles, determiners, intransitives, and the like.  Fortunately, Pinker is lucid and practical, providing a glossary (which is needed for repeated referral while slogging through some parts of the book) and plenty of down to earth examples to demonstrate his points.  He makes a strong case for humans having a language instinct, and does so in a very engaging fashion.  I found the book entertaining and full of fun, a genial approach for the thoughtful ruminations about the fascinating reality of language.  I wasn't convinced by his arguments in chapter 11 on 'The Big Bang', but the rest of the book won me over.  This book requires concentration to read and determination to finish, but is well worth the effort to do both.	1998-02-28
US	52821457	R1UN39GO5L73MA	0312113544	281403267	The Willows in Winter	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A rarity:  a sequel as good as the original	It is not often that a sequel is as good as - or even better than - the original.  William Horwood's The Willows in Winter is one of those rare exceptions.  His style and content are true to Kenneth Grahame's original, without being a cheap imitation, and Horwood's book can be read independantly of The Wind in the Willows.  The Willows in Winter was a pleasure to read.	1998-02-27
US	52821457	R3NY578DQZJF7Q	083081650X	644598495	Knowing God	Books	2	33	93	N	N	A Christian's theology of God	I do not enjoy speaking disparagingly about a book that so many thousands (perhaps millions) of people have found helpful.  Because of this, I am glad for Packer's work.  Yet my reading experience of Knowing God was, to be candid, painfully boring.  I yawned my way through it.  If people want a thorough Christian view of God, the Bible is not only more lively reading, but it's the original treatise on the subject.	1998-02-27
US	52821457	R7UKKBV4ZO31B	0684827549	667246406	DARWIN'S BLACK BOX: The Biochemical Challenge to Evolution	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Without malice, a biochemist challenges Darwinian evolution	I counted over 50 reviews on this amazon web page!  Only two of them gave this book an average ranking.  All the rest were quite high or quite low, which means that if you decide to buy this book, you'll either think Behe good and his science genuine, or you will think him a misguided thinker who is dead wrong.  I'm with the former group, but I understand the latter.  This is a highly charged topic on which few people are indifferent.  Fortunately, there is one thing Behe does indisputably well:  he treats those with whom he disagrees with respect.  His charitable attitude is proof that you can disagree with someone's viewpoint, even vehemently, and still act like a gentleman.	1998-02-27
US	52821457	R4U9USTFCARQY	0060915455	198870493	Pilgrim at Tinker Creek	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A great book	Despite the numerous biology courses I had in school, I never looked at insects with anything more than indifference until I read PILGRIM AT TINKER CREEK.  It opened my eyes to the fascinating lives of various creatures that I had heretofore ignored.  Dillard also introduced me to some wonderful authors (such as Edwin Way Teale) and books (especially THE INSECT WORLD OF J. HENRI FABRE, which proved to be far and away the best book I read one year).  I heartily recommend purchasing this book.	1998-02-26
US	52821457	R105UWF5A0X872	0192822047	756102367	King Solomon's Mines (The World's Classics)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An entertaining tale about lost treasures and exotic places	I read this book shortly after returning from a six week stay in Africa, so I may have felt a little more enthusiasm for the story than I ordinarily would.  Years later, though, I still think it a good tale of adventure, with travel to what was then still an exotic place, and filled with mystery and speculation about lost treasure, just the sorts of things we still enjoy reading today.  It's not the best novel I've ever read, but it is better than average.  I think it would make a good Christmas or birthday gift.	1998-02-25
US	52821457	R2GOLKBHIGCF97	0140430431	516359216	Le Morte D'Arthur: Volume 1 (The Penguin English Library)	Books	2	8	22	N	N	The legend of Arthur	After reading this fine Penguin edition of 'The Death of Arthur', I understood why there was such a wealth of material for Monte Python to parody in their film 'The Holy Grail'.  I found a lot of the action in Malory downright silly or stupid. To be fair, Malory did a superb job collating the various grail legends.  As a modern publisher, Penguin has put together two nice volumes at a reasonable price.  And yet, though the legends of Arthur and the holy grail do hold fascination for western Europe, to be candid, I found Le Morte d'Arthur a dull and unpleasureable reading experience.  If you already love the legends or want to know more about them, buy the books.  If not, there are plenty better things to read.	1998-02-24
US	52821457	R3QIXGAHAG4P3G	0345348109	227222206	The Killer Angels: The Classic Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Historical Fiction about Gettysburg	Probably the best novel to come from the Civil War.  It was not only entertaining but instructive - depicted the layout of the land, troop positions, and battle strategies, enabling the reader to comprehend the three days of engagement at Gettysburg.	1998-02-24
US	52821457	R387UH4LEK4Q08	0394749138	152594585	Civil War Volumes 1-3 Box Set	Books	5	4	6	N	N	The definitive narrative of America's civil war	What separates Foote's narrative from most other retellings of America's War Between the States is the way he tells it:  readers don't seem to see this as merely reading a remote account of the war; rather, they get the sensation of sharing in the experience as it unfolds.  It's almost as though Foote can put us there to experience it ourselves, for Foote excels at telling stories - TRUE stories - and brings history alive in this fashion.  If you want the definitive HISTORY of the war, you can access the 128 volume 'War of the Rebellion' and the 30 volume 'Official records of the Union and Confederate Navies', issued by the government in 1880-1901 and 1897-1927.  But if you want to read the best STORY of the war, read Shelby Foote.	1998-02-24
US	52821457	R2W9AQ99TEHUVI	0395184878	30206211	The Poetical Works of Longfellow (Cambridge Editions)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Comprehensive, ordered, and beautiful	This book is part of the Cambridge series of poets and is certainly well worth the money.  Longfellow's poems are nicely grouped, with introductory comments to set the background of each.  There are also notes back near the index that further explain some of the passages.  Longfellow was an extremely successful poet in his lifetime, but his popularity fell in the century following his death in 1882; considering the 20th century's penchant for the abstruse, there is both humor and truth in Canadian novelist Robertson Davies' wry remark, that Longfellow's dimming popularity is owing to his being wholly comprehensible.  Many of Longfellow's poems are familiar for the stories they tell (e.g. The Courtship of Miles Standish, Evangeline, Paul Revere's Ride, Hiawatha), but there are many little known specimens which are moving in their own right.  This is a wonderful volume of poetry, highly readable, and worth the effort to obtain for yourself.	1998-02-24
US	52821457	R32ASUU00I113K	0836218663	854922838	The Revenge of the Baby-Sat	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Every Calvin and Hobbes book is a ten	Poor Rosalyn - can you imagine trying to babysit a kid like Calvin?  In real life, Calvin would be trying to the most patient of parents.  In the comic strips?  Hysterically funny.	1998-02-24
US	52821457	R3P1BG288884SD	0917665066	463373709	The Silver Trumpet	Books	5	19	19	N	N	A Classic Fairy Tale	It's a shame that this book has gone out of print again, for I have yet to read another fairy tale that I have enjoyed more. C.S. Lewis thought highly of it, and J.R.R. Tolkien's children were completely taken by it when their father read it to them.  The 1989 edition of the book has the wonderful illustrations of Josephine Spence to complement this delightful story.	1998-02-24
US	52821457	R1ZY4Y37J0K8KF	0679444076	967869259	The Wisdom of the Body: Discovering the Human Spirit	Books	2	31	41	N	N	Uneven and lacking sufficient illustrations	I yield to no one in my admiration for Dr. Nuland's story telling, writing skills, or speaking eloquence.  However, THE WISDOM OF THE BODY is not a successfully made book.  It mixes together fascinating clinical stories with monotonous, drawn out descriptions of the body's functions.  Nuland does not always succeed in conveying the body's anatomy and physiology to the reader, and the result is often a restless boredom.  This book has only 8 or 9 illustrations, and should have used ten times that many if readers are to understand the complex concepts Nuland discusses.  As a fellow surgeon, I enjoyed reading Nuland's personal case histories, but there are much better books to consult for educating one's self on the wisdom of the body.  (A few examples:  Tortora and Agnostakos TEXTBOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY, Frank Netter's CIBA illustrations, or Dr. Paul Brand's FEARFULLY AND WONDERFULLY MADE.)	1998-02-19
US	52821457	R230ETLTFPJ1K6	052129701X	986640402	Studies in Medieval Renaissance Literature	Books	4	19	21	N	N	Studies in Medieval and Renaissance Literature	This posthumous collection of Lewis papers provides eclectic discussions of people and books that come under the category of medieval and renaissance literature.  Each chapter was originally given as a speech, with most created for the medieval specialist, not the general reader, so the target audience is somewhat narrow.  Enjoyable reading if this is your field of interest.	1998-02-18
US	52821457	R22D8QJ53EAOW3	031035501X	728797456	In His Image	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Analogies between the natural and spiritual body	I have enjoyed reading and re-reading this book over the last decade.  As a surgeon, I can appreciate Dr. Brand's sense of wonder for the human body, and as a Christian, I appreciate the parallels Brand and Yancey have drawn between the human body and the body of Christ.  I enthusiastically recommend this book (and its companion volume FEARFULLY AND WONDERFULLY MADE).	1998-02-18
US	52821457	R2UGPZX85779M5	0060633875	29780906	Just As I Am: The Autobiography of Billy Graham	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A fine autobiography	Billy and a team of researchers have collated an enormous amount of material into an enjoyable autobiography.  I found the early chapters about his family and growing up on a North Carolina farm the most interesting.	1998-02-18
US	52821457	R3C5VG8IFD0T5W	0898702135	994034122	Under the Mercy	Books	4	30	33	N	N	A sequel to A SEVERE MERCY	This book is a sequel to A SEVERE MERCY.  It does not possess the writing unity of the first book, but is more like a collage or scrapbook.  It will be interesting reading for all those who loved A SEVERE MERCY.  I do not recommend reading UNDER THE MERCY, though, unless you have read A SEVERE MERCY first.	1998-02-18
US	52821457	R3QTVD1GGKBCYP	031035451X	496991949	Fearfully and Wonderfully Made	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Analogies between the biological and spiritual body	As the title suggests, this book explores many facets of the human body which - as the psalmist acknowledged - is fearfully and wonderfully made.  More than just an understandable discussion of the various body systems, this book also delves into the history of significant milestones in medical research, stories from Dr. Brand's career as missionary surgeon in India, and discoursive parallels between the biological body and the body of Christ.  Thoughtful, illustrated, and smoothly written, this is an excellent book.	1998-02-18
US	52821457	R1HHWF5ZRBAMZS	0060244887	607344832	The Chronicles of Narnia (Box Set)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Adventures in the land of Narnia	Adolescent and adult readers alike enjoy these books.  They are certainly a favorite of mine, the kind of work one continues to return to read throughout life.	1998-02-17
US	52821457	R307P5Y7HM6IE1	0345340426	669379389	J.R.R. Tolkien Boxed Set (The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Mesmerizing Journey into Middle Earth	Although they bear little resemblance to each other, Robertson Davies' DEPTFORD TRILOGY and Tolkien's LORD OF THE RINGS are far and away my favorite fictional trilogies.  The high number of &quot;10&quot; ratings from these reader reviews shows how much others have enjoyed reading Tolkien.	1998-02-17
US	52821457	R2P6WNC2UYJ3HD	0684823799	759467388	Miracles: A Preliminary Study (C.S. Lewis Classics)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Superb discussion about the possibility of miracles	A superb book that discusses the philosophical arguments about miracles and the possibility of the supernatural occurring in the natural world.  A bit difficult in parts for the general reader to follow (for whom the book was written), hence the rating of 9 rather than 10.  Still, a fine work of apologetics.	1998-02-17
US	52821457	RNDABRO05IUYE	0156329301	450659252	The Four Loves	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Friendship, affection, charity, and romance	A refreshing look at the four different kinds of love, as told by someone who had experience with each, yet whose scholarship and insight excel most others who try to discuss them.  I give the book an 8 instead of a 10 because of Lewis's views about friendship - he took very little, if any, interest in the personal parts of his friends' lives, so his views are jaded and different from most of society in this respect.  Still, the book (like most of what Lewis wrote) is enjoyable, helpful, and worth buying.	1998-02-17
US	52821457	R2GKM6DJ51XBJJ	0060688246	74501038	A Severe Mercy	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A heart-wrenching love story	The plotline: guy meets girl, they fall madly in love, marry, determine to never let their love die by insisting on sharing every experience with each other (in person or verbally), they convert from atheism to Christianity while in Oxford, find God invading the boundaries of their marriage, gal falls ill and dies, guy grieves her death, ponders the meaning of their marriage, and many years later writes about these things in \\"A Severe Mercy\\".<br />I have yet to speak with someone who did not cry while reading this book. It is a moving story of love and death that manages to avoid the sticky-sweet sentimentalism that merely parodies a true tragedy.  While the loss of a loved one is a tragedy, Vanauken shows that this was not the only one.  The other was the idolatrization of marriage, what Vanauken and his wife Davy termed \\"The Shining Barrier\\".  The Shining Barrier was the best of pagan love, the shutting out of anything that could produce the \\"creeping separateness\\" that might divide them.  What Vanauken and Davy had not counted on was the invasion of their marriage by God.  Later, as C.S. Lewis pointed out in a letter, Vanauken was given a \\"severe mercy\\" when Davy died.  The severe mercy was the removal of the idolotry - The Shining Barrier - from their marriage through Davy's death.  Moreover, the severe mercy of Davy's death also prevented Vanauken from watching his \\"natural\\" love with Davy die.  For as Lewis maintained (and so adroitly demonstrated in his book \\"The Four Loves\\"), the natural loves of eros (romance), philia (friendship), and storge (familial affection) - without the support of agape (charity, divine love) - will eventually be transformed and die.  So after Davy's death, Lewis wrote of this pagan love in a letter to Vanauken,<br />\\"One way or another the thing had to die.  Perpetual springtime is not allowed.  You were not cutting the wood of life according to the grain.  There are various possible ways in which it could have died tho' both parties went on living.  You have been treated with a severe mercy.  You have been brought to see (how true & how very frequent this is!) that you were jealous of God.  So from US you have been led back to US AND GOD; it remains to go on to GOD AND US.\\"<br />Readers of this excellent book often take interest in one (or more) of three things: 1)Van and Davy's approach to marriage and intimacy, 2)their intellectual searching and conversion to Christianity, or 3)the grieving process following death of a beloved. This was certainly one of the most emotionally moving books I have ever read and I recommend it unreservedly.	1998-02-17
US	52821457	RQ52KI7TYJLWE	0895265524	153280751	Glittering Illusion: English Sympathy for the Southern Confederacy	Books	4	24	25	N	N	An unusual view of America's Civil War	This book was Vanauken's thesis work while at Oxford, presenting a neglected and unusual viewpoint of England's position on the American Civil War.  Vanauken's views on &quot;The War Between the States&quot; won't draw much of a following nowadays, but that doesn't mean they are incorrect or misleading.  To the contrary, Vanauken forces the reader to rethink long accepted dogma about America's bloodiest conflict, and why England never entered the fray.  American Civil War fans will enjoy reading this book.	1998-02-17
US	52821457	R1S4MEF11S5PR2	0684823845	875737488	The Weight of Glory and Other Addresses	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Nine speeches of C.S. Lewis	Many of these nine speeches were originally delivered as sermons, including the masterpiece THE WEIGHT OF GLORY.  This collection deserves a rating of 10+ and is among the very best of what Lewis ever wrote.  Highly recommended.	1998-02-17
US	52821457	R24ZMGU4LLFYFO	0156870118	714437196	Surprised by Joy: The Shape of My Early Life	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Charming spiritual autobiography	Strictly speaking, this is a spiritual journey rather than a personal history, yet much biographical material goes into the telling.  I enjoyed the book immensely and found Lewis's ever present sense of humor refreshing.	1998-02-17
US	52821457	R19CYCSVPCT1XK	0684823764	94824058	The Great Divorce	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Imaginary trip into the afterlife	A sometimes overlooked classic of Lewis's, involving an imaginary trip to the afterlife.  This was a favorite of the late Sheldon Vanauken (A SEVERE MERCY).	1998-02-17
US	52821457	R1IGW43CVMV5W3	0911519211	690314133	Gateway to Heaven	Books	2	7	13	N	N	Subpar novel	Unlike the stunning book A SEVERE MERCY, Vanauken's novel GATEWAY TO HEAVEN is neither emotionally uplifting nor fascinating.  It is melodrama, with most of the conversations being &quot;overdone&quot;.  Too much hype.  This novel is not Vanauken's best work.  Better to stick with A SEVERE MERCY.	1998-02-17
US	52821457	R3PA6URHMU4JKY	0192812203	690083350	The Allegory of Love: A Study in Medieval Tradition (Oxford Paperbacks)	Books	3	16	26	N	N	A scholarly look at literary romantic literature	A difficult book to rank as it was not written for the general reader (like myself).  Erudite?  Absolutely.  Witty?  In parts.  Sustainable interest?  Here is where the student of allegory and medieval romantic tradition would probably rate the book a 10, while the laymen will rank it a 3.  I compromised with a rating of 6.  Definitely worth a look for literary scholars interested in this field of study or Lewis devotees interested in perusing his academic work.	1998-02-17
US	52821457	R15Y2769JQRDZO	0684823780	338167986	Mere Christianity	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Explanation of Christianity	A helpful and wise commentary about the basics of Christianity, written for the layman yet helpful for anyone.  Excellent.	1998-02-17
US	52821457	R3CAI0VOA2I5FY	0385486804	674569455	Into the Wild	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A book that was hard to put down	The number of reviews on this web page shows that people don't read this book with indifference.  Love it or hate it, it's worth a look.  (Keep a dictionary handy while you read.  Krakauer uses some unusual words.)	1998-02-15
US	52821457	R1XYPUVRAKU1MG	0156904365	322831088	Till We Have Faces: A Myth Retold	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A magnificent new twist on an old myth	Lewis had been thinking about the story of Cupid and Psyche for decades, going so far as to try writing a new version of Lucius Apuleius Platonicus' METAMORPHOSES (circa 125 A.D.) in poetry.  He abandoned the poetry in favor of a prose story, and I think TILL WE HAVE FACES the best of his novels.  It is one of those works that fits the cliche &quot;I couldn't put the book down.&quot;  Highly recommended.	1998-02-15
US	52821457	ROTUZ6OE5VRWU	0840759606	540327525	Open windows	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Reflective Essays on practical theology	These essays are quite down to earth and enjoyable to read.  Included in the book are interviews with Annie Dillard and Francis Schaeffer.  Even though this book is now hard to find, it is worth pursuing and purchasing.  Thought provoking and well written.	1998-02-12
US	52821457	R1UKWI1A34XJAM	0140168842	586563868	Murther and Walking Spirits	Books	3	1	4	N	N	A murdered man's narrative of his past	In this rather unevenly crafted novel, Davies has some clever ideas and interesting stories - along with the ever present Davies humor - but there are long sections of the book that 'drag' and fail to hold the reader's interest.  My impression of this book is that Davies came up with a clever format and some intriguing ideas, but did not successfully bring these to fruition.  Thus the rating of 5.  Davies has better things to offer in his trilogies.	1998-02-11
US	52821457	R2MZ8R6W9X20IS	0140062718	421197429	Rebel Angels (Cornish Trilogy)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A fascinating, delightful yarn	I can't decide which I think is the best of Davies' novels:  FIFTH BUSINESS or REBEL ANGELS.  I was delighted by both stories and the wonderful wandering asides Davies takes into such unusual subjects.  In the REBEL ANGELS, he tells his story through two characters - a beautiful young lady whose academic interests focus on Rabelais, Paracelsus, and other medieval writers, yet whose background is gypsy; and Professor the Reverend Simon Darcourt, a plump, middle aged priest turned college professor.  Davies' shows the pertinence of the scatalogical element in our lives and his discussions are both tasteful and humorous.  There is plenty of mystery and intrigue in the story to keep the reader's curiosity alert and the characters are most colorfully entertaining.  Excellent reading.	1998-02-11
US	52821457	R3U3NE8Q8V1XW3	0802801595	143324544	I Was Just Wondering	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Philip Yancey's collected essays from the 80's	An enjoyable and thought provoking collection of essays that Philip Yancey wrote for CHRISTIANITY TODAY magazine.  Each is only a few pages in length and quite amenable to reading during brief breaks throughout the day or before going to bed at night.  Also good for reading out loud to families or discussion groups.  Recommended buying.	1998-02-10
US	52821457	R25Q9Z7DMPX2GM	0140047433	358458434	Lives of a Cell: Notes of a Biology Watcher	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Stimulating Thoughts about biology and medicine	I enjoyed reading these short essays.  Thomas has an endearing way of presenting little known facts and sharing unusual analogies that bring unusual insight into the behavior and society of humans and their diseases.  This is no hum-drum collection of nearly identical articles, but a widely varied set of essays that incorporates good humor and generous praise of the wonderful world in which we live.	1998-02-10
US	52821457	R3FMKR7RKUFUHK	0374513384	539046286	Message in the Bottle	Books	2	7	48	N	N	Dense essays about man's 20th century blahs	There are very few books that I have been unable to finish because of ennui, but this was one of them.  I made it about 2/3 of the way through and had to call it quits.  This book badly needs editing.  Percy asks some engaging questions to begin the book, but it is all downhill from there.	1998-02-10
US	52821457	R2ZJV5WZEOFX19	0140243275	666247069	The Youngest Science: Notes of a Medicine-Watcher (Alfred P. Sloan Foundation Series)	Books	5	30	32	N	N	Autobiography of a lifetime in medicine	This is an enjoyable book of a lifetime spent in the field of medicine.  My favorite chapters were the early ones as Thomas looked back at what medicine was like early in this century, including what he remembers from his father's medical practice.  This medical reminiscence differs from most other physician's writings in that Thomas has spent the majority of his career in research rather than in the clinical practice of medicine.  But if research is often thought of as dull drudgery, Thomas certainly does not reflect that in the book.  His genuine enthusiasm (and important finds along the way) have shown how necessary research is to progress in health care.  As a clinical physician myself, I gained a new appreciation for this side of medicine.  Lewis's enthusiasm is infectious, his comments candid, and his medical poetry quite entertaining.  I enjoyed reading this.	1998-02-10
US	52821457	R3NOZD96NXSDM4	0060652845	453295478	A Grief Observed	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A widower's confession of grief and doubt	The synopsis, the publisher, and the reader from Colorado are all right on target with their comments about this honest, emotionally moving book.  Lewis does not hid behind a mask of professorial hubris or pull any punches as he openly confesses his doubts about God and vents his grief in the pages of his journal.  He pours out his emotions in what is probably the most &quot;personal&quot; of all his books.  Both those suffering the loss of a loved one and those who aren't will be helped by reading this book.  Certainly worth obtaining.	1998-02-10
US	52821457	R1D7WM51LW0ETX	0880705116	27560738	Praying With the KGB: A Startling Report from a Shattered Empire	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Remarkable dissintegration of the U.S.S.R.	For those who grew up under that shadow of the iron curtain, the changes that took place around the globe in the late 1980's and early 1990's were truly amazing, none more so than the splintering of the Soviet Union.  Journalist Philip Yancey writes an exciting account of his visit to the former USSR with a group called Project Christian Bridge.  Formerly an atheistic society, the Soviets had actually extended an invitation to the Christian group because of the moral  erosion in their society, finding that they lacked an ethical foundation for rebuilding.  PRAYING WITH THE KGB tells a remarkable story.  The book is short enough to be read in one sitting.  Exciting and highly recommended.	1998-02-09
US	52821457	R1NYFZXSZX6LIH	0807085138	856194030	The Insect World of J. Henri Fabre	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Fabre's fascinating insect stories/observations	This was far and away my favorite book of the year when I read it a few years ago.  Fabre (1823-1915) was no dry, pedantic writer of insect anatomy and classification, like many 19th and 20th century entomologists.  He was a keen observer, insightful scientist, and lively writer.  His passionate commentary - just the sort of &quot;subjective&quot; stuff excluded from scientific journals - is what makes the text come alive; for Fabre makes the reader aware that these insects have LIVES, and heightens our awareness of what is going on in the world around us which we so rarely bother to notice.  I highly recommend purchasing this or any other book of collected writings by this outstanding man.	1998-02-08
US	52821457	RBQCNEWZROAHJ	0140167943	988777649	Fifth Business (Deptford Trilogy)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Definitely worth buying	It is easy for me to give this book a rating of 10 as it is indeed among the best of novels.  Don't stop with this, though; go on to THE MANTICORE and WORLD OF WONDERS to complete the Deptford trilogy.	1998-02-07
US	52821457	RIEY08K1T1LS7	0802808689	694218053	God in the Dock: Essays on Theology and Ethics	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Essays on theology and ethics	I have continued to find this book helpful to my thinking on a number of topics over the years.  I never tire of reading from it.  There are 48 essays collected here (along with 12 short letters), all brief enough to be read in one sitting.  They are as entertaining as they are useful.  This is Lewis at his discoursive best.	1998-02-07
US	52821457	RV7B3S1UKVIEG	0140065059	211907108	High Spirits: A Collection of Ghost Stories	Books	5	11	11	N	N	18 highly entertaining ghost stories	These are definitely not typical ghost stories.  They aren't scary but humorous.  While he was master of Massey College at the University of Toronto, Davies wrote and read a new ghost story each year at the college Christmas party.  They are quite entertaining and jolly good fun.  They are among the more entertaining things Davies wrote in a lifetime of interesting writing.	1998-02-07
US	52821457	RQVHU0UZZZSC5	0061044288	454853722	Where Is God When It Hurts?	Books	5	49	52	N	N	Practical, honest discussion about human suffering	This is the best book on pain and suffering out in the market (even better than C.S. Lewis's THE PROBLEM OF PAIN).   Yancey's first chapter title describes our predicament well enough: 'A problem that won't go away'.  This problem is as old as mankind, and in some ways, no one will ever write a better outline of this difficulty than can be found in the book of Job.  Yancey's book, though, takes a fresh look at pain itself, and while it cannot answer all questions (no book can), it does give a thoughtful discussion that helps us to comprehend the crucial role of pain in our lives.  This book is not an abstract speculative treatise, but a practical and helpful companion as we ask why there is such a thing as pain, is pain a message from God, how do people respond to suffering, how can we cope with pain, and how does religious faith help (or hinder).  I give this book my highest recommendation.	1998-02-07
US	52821457	R7OGDTHUT0QCU	0140147551	988777649	The Deptford Trilogy: Fifth Business; The Manticore; World of Wonders	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Definitely worth buying	Undeniably, this and J.R.R. Tolkien's THE LORD OF THE RINGS constitute the best trilogies in all fiction (even though they bear little resemblance to each other).  FIFTH BUSINESS was my favorite, probably because I liked the erudite yet odd protagonist Dunston Ramsay, a man with an idiosyncratic penchant for hagiography (study of saints).  WORLD OF WONDERS was a close second (how did Davies pick up so much information about circuses without ever being in one himself?) with THE MANTICORE (a fictitious beast with the face of a man, body of a lion, and a stinging tail like a scorpion) third. Davies himself later said that he had pondered for years the questions: To what extent is a man responsible for the outcome of his actions, and how early in life does the responsibility begin?  After long reflection and debate, Davies concluded that responsibility begins with life itself, and his trilogy delves into this question, showing how the mere throwing of a stone laden snowball by Boy Staunton continues to have consequences for the next sixty years. Davies writing appeals to both 'high brow' and 'low brow' tastes, and this trilogy is a delight to read and re-read	1998-02-07
US	52821457	R18KJNY79RZ7JK	0195003454	106860715	A Preface to Paradise Lost	Books	5	69	73	N	N	Introduction to Milton's epic poem	This book was a pleasure to read both before and after reading PARADISE LOST.  In fact, one can make a nice trilogy out of PREFACE TO PARADISE LOST, PARADISE LOST, and Lewis's PERELANDRA.  Lewis's PREFACE should interest both the general reader and the specialist.  Lewis gives a roadmap for working through Milton's epic poem, discussing what an epic is and why Milton chose it, for example, or why Milton used a certain style for writing; he also comments on Milton's theology, medieval hierarchy, and a number of other pertinent subjects with which the reader will probably not be overly familiar.  The writing is clear, the discussion lucid and enlightening, and the subjects are interesting.  This is certainly worth purchasing.	1998-02-07
US	52821457	R2UKWN5IDYYJPT	0520082230	159643474	Migraine, Revised and Expanded Edition	Books	3	27	31	N	N	The study of migraine	This was a tough book to rank.  If you suffer from migraines or treat patients with migraines, you will probably think this book worthy of a ranking of 10.  If you are a general reader, you will be bored by the dry discussion and rank this book a 1 or 2.  Sacks is thorough, if nothing else, and has updated this book twice (1985 and 1992) to enhance it's accuracy and helpfulness.  From Sacks's thoughtful discussion, one certainly learns that 'migraine' is far more than a headache.  Sacks has intentionally kept the form of the book clinical, and in this sense it is different from his other books in that he does not write for the general reader.  As a physician who doesn't ordinarily deal with migraine in my practice, I vacillated between interest and boredom while reading this book.	1998-02-07
US	52821457	R14Y5EA6Y8M8F4	0687038928	539545526	Memories of God: Theological Reflections on a Life	Books	2	9	21	N	N	Disappointing reflections on a life	I found this book boring and disappointingly wretched.  Some of the good insights the author shared were overwhelmed by a drawn out book of what seemed like incurable self-pity.  This mood unfortunately permeates the book, preventing the reader from seeing someone who is learning about herself and God through the hard knocks of life.  As the book progresses, &quot;inner reflection&quot; turns into a continued wallowing in the quagmire of the past, leaving the reader annoyed rather than sympathetic.  Furthermore, this is one of those books that needed an editor to prune it before it went to the publishers.  The book is 205 pages long, but Bondi could have said everything she needed to say in 1/3 of that length.  Her repetition is annoying.  This book has potential that a good editor could make use of, but as it is, it isn't worth reading.	1998-02-07
US	52821457	R1RDI6TB0UZAMQ	0060973471	975595778	Seeing Voices: A Journey Into the World of the Deaf	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Fascinating look at deafness and language	I loved this book and could have wished it twice as long.  However, a friend to whom I recommended the book didn't think that highly of it.  So to be honest, I guess this book isn't for everyone.  It is true that particularly in this book, Sacks gets carried away by lots of long footnotes printed at the bottom of the pages.  For me, reading them was like exploring every nook and cranny of a great cathedral.  Absolutely enthralling.  But for others, it may prove to be rather distracting.  If you have ever pondered the endlessly fascinating relationship of language to thinking, you will like this book.	1998-02-07
US	52821457	RUK2SI2SVXIXF	0140126597	704041170	The Enthusiasms of Robertson Davies	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Short essays and "plays" about everything	For the reader who has yet to read any Robertson Davies, this book is a great place to start.  It is informative, easy reading that will frequently make you laugh.  It is 364 pages long, but most entries are 3 to 5 pages in length, so that it is an easy book to pick up, read, and put down again (e.g., during, coffee breaks, lunch breaks, bedtime reading, etc.)  The book is broken up into three sections, \\"characters,\\" \\"books,\\" and what might be thought of as a 'miscellaneous' section.  Judith Skelton Grant's six page introduction is enough to get the reader oriented and short enough to keep from sounding like a mini-dissertation.  Her description of some of the writings that make up this book reveals what wide-ranging interests Davies had.  Davies wrote about \\"circuses, saints, psychology, music, magic, religion, handwriting, book collecting, drama, social history.  His taste in literature ranged widely too, from Chaucer to Mervyn Peake, from Shakespeare to Don Marquis.\\"  The \\"characters\\" section of \\"The Enthusiasms of Robertson Davies\\" is mostly about writers, including books they wrote, while the \\"books\\" section is mostly book reviews, while mentioning the writers.  In other words, in the first section, the emphasis is more upon the authors (P.G. Wodehouse, Sydney Smith, Havelock Ellis, William Hazlitt, etc.) while the second is more about the works the authors produced (The Canterbury Tales, Origins, Lolita, Corsets and Crinolines, etc.), though each section has both.  The last section was, for me, the most entertaining section, one that comes closer to simulating a conversation.  Some of them were indeed placed in a conversational style, such as \\"A Chat with a Great Reader,\\" which by itself is reason enough to purchase this book.  Davies was not absolutely sure he had ever met a great reader.  He himself was \\"just a Persistent Reader.\\"  And what is a great reader?  \\"Somebody who reads greatly.  Somebody who gives his whole attention to what he is reading.  Somebody who brings to a book a curiosity and a sympathy which matches the intention of the auther.  Somebody who gives himself wholly to a book.\\"  There are a few entries which give a week's worth of \\"diary\\" entries.  This consists of generally a half to 3/4 of a page given over to what might be called \\"literary musings,\\" though written in a light and frequently humorous style.  These were some of the funniest entries in the book, many written with tongue clearly planted in cheek.  An entry from \\"The Writer's Week\\" gives a sample.  \\"Sunday: Lay on my back most of the day, reading, sleeping, and day-dreaming.  Very literary.  Some women, however, resent it, so young writers should choose their wives with care.  Many a promising career has been wrecked by marrying the wrong sort of woman.  The right sort of woman can distinguish between Creative Lassitude and plain shiftlessness.\\"  Or this from the entry \\"Haiku and Englyn\\": \\"I have been much troubled by the hubbub about diet in the papers, and I see no hope.  If I eat the high-protein diet to grow slim and thwart thrombosis, I am silting up my veins with cholesterol, and may burst like a clogged water-main.  If I eat the cholesterol-free diet, I am stuffed wth starch, and insurance companies threaten me with rapid transport to the Hereafter by the Fat Route.  Only women have the answer, and I sat in a restaurant today watching them eat lettuce and scraps of vegetable with lemon-juice dressing.  Yeats' splendid lines flashed through my mind - 'It's certain that fine women eat, A crazy salad with their meat, Whereby the Horn of Plenty is undone.'  I murmured this while emptying a big bottle of cholesterol over my fatty lamb chops.\\"  This book is not only entertaining to read but also education.  I underlined many sections and have found that in his good-natured way, Robertson Davies was stimulating to both the imagination and the critical faculty.  In short, \\"The Enthusiams of Robertson Davies\\" is a book I have returned to many times over the years and easily repays the investment of reading it.	1998-02-07
US	52821457	R10NOJYYY9IR5U	0198812981	240026270	English Literature in the Sixteenth Century: Excluding Drama (Oxford History of English Literature Series)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	English Literature in the Sixteenth Century	Whether you rate this a 10 or a 2 depends on your reading tastes.  No doubt many people would find the topic uninteresting, and if the topic or the author are not subjects you enjoy, then don't bother to buy it.  Not being a lit. buff myself, my attraction for the book was the author's commentary, with the goldmine of quotable material found therein.  This is an impressive volume of literary history, and I doubt that anyone else could have done such a thorough job and still made the topic come to life with such vigorous exposition.  Opinionated?  You bet.  That's part of what makes it enjoyable to read.  If you are interested in obtaining a copy of the book, you may want to contact Oxford University Press directly.  As one of the twelve volumes constituting the &quot;Oxford History of English Literature&quot; series, they have continued to print it over the years.	1998-02-07
US	52821457	R3D7CNW1T17P1T	0679756973	941603910	An Anthropologist On Mars: Seven Paradoxical Tales	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Seven fascinating neurological clinical case studies	I, too, found this to be a wonderful, stimulating reading experience.  This book receives an 8 instead of a 10 because some of the discussions about the physics of color vision in the first chapter would have been easier to understand with illustrations.  As is, it's hard to follow at times.  Nevertheless, I thoroughly enjoyed the book.	1998-02-07
US	52821457	R4FYXL1RQTRTE	0345395859	936056723	Finding God in Unexpected Places	Books	5	36	36	N	N	Essays on God's presence in the world	This compendium of essays, mostly gathered from Philip Yancey's columns for CHRISTIANITY TODAY magazine, come from the person whose works I enjoy reading more than any other living author.  These essays are not the narrow minded platitudes of someone offering yet another book of hollow reflections.  Yancey looks for the intimations of God's grace amidst our troubling human condition, finding it in many places others overlook, whether it be in Shakespeare, Vaclav Havel, the Soviet Union, a computer keyboard, or in the natural world.  The essays are brief and amenable to quick review each day e.g. lunchtime, bedtime reading, or afternoon coffee break.  These ruminations are also good material to be read in small groups.  I unreservedly recommend this book.	1998-02-06
US	52821457	R116VCF15AYQ9O	0521422817	383860912	An Experiment in Criticism (Canto)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	On becoming a great reader	Like famed Canadian novelist Robertson Davies, C.S. Lewis believed that a great reader is someone who enters fully into the experience of the writer, who gives his whole attention to what he is reading, and who brings to a book a curiosity and a sympathy to surrender to the work on which the author is engaged.  In this way, great reading is similar to love, moral action, and intellectual achievement.  Even those who with whom we disagree can teach us to see the world through their eyes.  As Lewis says, &quot;in reading great literature I become a thousand men and yet remain myself.&quot;  In this way, literature can enlarge ourselves and our view of the world.  Lewis argues it is less important to decide between reading what is considered &quot;high brow&quot; versus &quot;low brow&quot; than it is to learn to read greatly.  AN EXPERIMENT IN CRITICISM was a delightful book to read, chock full of illustrations to demonstrate the points being made.  Avid readers will enjoy this book.	1998-02-06
US	52821457	R1XX7Q29YW1V0L	0521477352	733825607	The Discarded Image: An Introduction to Medieval and Renaissance Literature (Canto)	Books	5	6	11	N	N	An introduction to medieval and renaissance literature	For those interested in studying medieval and renaissance literature, this book is all but indispensible for understanding the world view of the writers of that period (and thus understanding the books they wrote.)  In some ways, I believe this is the best book Lewis ever wrote.  However, I doubt the book would appeal to the general reader, and more interesting material would be available in Lewis's fiction or works of theology.	1998-02-05
US	52821457	R58QZ488EM9R9	0684823721	214482046	C. S. Lewis' Letters to Children	Books	5	27	28	N	N	C.S. Lewis's amusing, thoughtful letters to children	These eminently readable letters to children over the last 19 years of Lewis's life cover a surprisingly wide variety of topics (many being responses to thoughtful questions from the children who wrote to him).  Most of the children began corresponding with Lewis after reading books from his CHRONICLES OF NARNIA series, and Lewis's responses are neither patronizing nor somber, but rather sincere and often humorous.  Readers from gradeschool to adulthood levels will enjoy wandering through this lively correspondence.	1998-02-05
US	52821457	R1Y7YF37Z73F7J	0684823713	472936459	The Abolition of Man: Or Reflections on Education With Special Reference to the Teaching of English in the Upper Forms of Schools (C.S. Lewis Classics)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	How Education Develops Man's Sense of Morality	In this terse discussion about ethics, specifically how education develops man's sense of morality, Lewis argues that there are indeed objective values, denying the relativistic viewpoint of those who postulate that all values are fictional creations from the subjective mind of mankind.  He also convincingly demonstrates how those who educate the young inevitably influence students' views on the matter by the very language used in their schoolbooks.  Far from being an abstruse topic that has little bearing on our every day lives, subjective relativism has long term adverse consequences for members of society who come under its influence.  Given wide enough application, it could ultimately destroy mankind.  The appendix to THE ABOLITON OF MAN is quite helpful, listing examples of common values held by people of many different societies and cultures, pointing to an objective law, or &quot;Tao&quot;.  It does indeed show that there is a desire for a way of life that is better and more just, for mercy and kindness, which is seen in the different cultures around the globe.  If there were not divine law and objective values, then we humans would be - as the animals seem to be - satisfied with any 'ole way of living.  This book is just a bit dense in spots (which is why I rate it with a 9 instead of 10), but still readable and quite peritinent to today's western society.  For related material in a little less left brained presentation, see Lewis's THAT HIDEOUS STRENGTH or MERE CHRISTIANITY.	1998-02-05
US	52821457	RDJ0PU6SIUSFY	0156239302	401287515	The Dark Tower and Other Stories	Books	3	1	5	N	N	Collection of published science fiction and unfinished novel	Lewis never finished two of the stories in this book, and these unfinished manuscripts - THE DARK TOWER and AFTER TEN YEARS - probably would have been better left unpublished as they are not all that interesting.  On the other hand, the other four complete stories in this book - THE MAN BORN BLIND, THE SHODDY LANDS, MINISTERING ANGELS, and FORMS OF THINGS UNKOWN - are quite good.  If it weren't for the aforementioned fragments, the other four stories would give this book a rating of 9, and I do think the book worth buying just for these alone.	1998-02-03
US	52821457	R17CPTGBTBM7VU	0156046431	496008084	All My Road Before Me: The Diary of C. S. Lewis, 1922-1927	Books	2	23	25	N	N	C.S. Lewis's Diary of Day to Day Events from 1922 - 1927	As someone who has read nearly every Lewis title in print, my conclusion about the diary is that it is entertaining in places, is good for giving a feel for what day to day life was like for the author as he was made the transition from student to teacher, and gives fuller information about some of the characters anonymously or only briefly described in SURPRISED BY JOY and LETTERS OF C.S. LEWIS.  I doubt, though, that anyone other than a Lewis enthusiast would enjoy the book.  It is rather banal, certainly not on par with his later writing, and indeed rather provincial.  I recommend it for Lewis scholars as reference material, but not for general reading.  His brother Warren Lewis kept a far more interesting diary, posthumously published as BROTHERS AND FRIENDS.	1998-02-03
