US	52822743	RQEQXMPZUCXQG	0764173693	836710052	American Accent Training, 2nd Edition (Book + CD)	Books	5	154	157	N	Y	very good; get a computer program to record yourself	I do agree with the other reviewers that it is an excellent book written by a professional with extensive experience. It comes with 6 CD and almost 200-page book with detailed explanations of intonation patterns and sounds. Additionally, in the appendix Ann Cook discusses in detail what are the typical  accents of native speakers of common languages, and what specifically the native speakers of these languages should work on.  <br /> <br />The chief difficulty with working with a course like this is that the learner should not only repeat after the speaker, but should also be able to hear his/her own words to make the necessary corrections. If you keep on repeating the same mistake, but do not hear it and cannot correct yourself - what's the point of practicing? My solution is to practice with a computer. I tried a simple sound recorder on a computer as well as a tape recorder, and it did not work - too complicated, invoves too much button pressing. You need a program which plays a phrase, then records you repeating it, then repeats the native speaker, then plays your recording, and does it all over again in a loop until you are satisfied. It turned out that it is not easy to find a program like this; after a long search, I found a shareware program called FollowMe,  its trial version can be downloaded from tarsoft's site or shareware servers (perhaps there are other programs like this which I did not come across, I am talking about the learning concept here). For me personally working with a computer and using a program like described above made a tremendous difference, I really feel that I am getting the most from this book. I can hear my mistakes and I feel that I am correcting them. <br /> <br />While with a course like this the price is much less important than the result and productivity of learning, this book (in my opinion) satisfies both, good quality and reasonable price. Recommended.	2005-01-02
US	52822743	R1OEND45GXF326	0879420693	845635044	Solar Cells (IEEE Press selected reprint series)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	largely outdated; mostly for those interested in history	This book was published in 1976 by IEEE and consists of approximately 40 articles published in various journals on the  topics of physics and design of silicon and compound semiconductor solar cells. The original publication dates of these articles range between 1954 and 1973. Some of them are \\"classical\\" publications in which first working solar cells were reported, or first studies of the impact of various parameters of semiconductors, such as bandgap or temperature, on cell performace. The technology of solar cells has progressed enormously since these works (and this book) were published. Therefore, it is no longer a good reference for scholars in the PV area. Nonetheless, it is a great resource for those who are interested in the history of photovoltaics, or those who want to trace the developments in solar cell technology back to their roots.	2004-09-02
US	52822743	R2T5LBB7H584K	0130964239	596029054	LabVIEW Applications and Solutions	Books	1	2	2	N	N	A tour of Labview applications	This book is obviously written for a developer who wants to choose a suitable programming language, heard about labview, but is not sure if it can do what he wants. The idea of the book is to give you an overview of the many real-world problems which can be solved with lab view. It covers many potential areas of applications, from image processing and digital filters to interfacing with measurement equipment - but everything is described in very generic terms. Indeed, if image processing is discussed on 10 pages, how much can you learn from such a short discussion? You will get an idea what hardware you may need and what toolkits can be used for each particular purpose, and you may learn a few technical terms along the way - but you will not move an inch towards becoming a better LabView programmer. In fact, there is practically nothing in this book about programming. A few labview programs/ diagrams that are reproduced in the text are for illustration purposes only: they are never discussed in detail and often contain undescribed VIs -or, as another example, include structures like frames which contain, say, 4 frames, but only one of them is shown in the figure. The enclosed CD contains only a trial version of labview and electronic version of labview manuals - nothing else. Some chapters are written a little better than the others - for examples, those on fuzzy logic and Fourier Transform are the better ones - but they are still insufficient for practical work. My impression from this book reminds me a feeling which one gets from a tour of a high-end research facility offered to general public. You see the equipment, see the curves on a computer screen, get an idea what is being done here, may even memorize some slang words used by the scientists, but it neither makes you qualified to work in that lab nor teaches how to do a similar things at your own place of work. So is this book. Don't waste your money on it if you want to learn how to program LabView.	2004-08-06
US	52822743	R2N92N6L468XC4	013833949X	974251564	Advanced LabVIEW Labs	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	OUTSTANDING book to learn LabView basics	This book is a fantastic hands-on introduction to LabView, probably the best book on this topic a beginner can find. It is extremely clearly written, very well edited (i.e., there are practically no mistakes), and it has excellent illustrations for each step in the process of building VIs. <br />The book was developed by the author as a student manual for the class he taught. However, it is written so well that I do not understand why a student who has such a book needs an instructor at all. It consists of 12 chapters, all very practical. The first chapter gives a brief introduction to the LabView interface and its editing tools and introduces very simple VIs illustrating the while loop and the waveform chart. Chapters 2 through 8 teach increasingly complicated VIs which utilize the waveforem graph, XY graph, For loop, Formula node, operations with data files and character strings, shift registers, and case and sequence structures. The reader learns how to create arrays of data, perform mathematical operations on them, save them in files and read from files, and how to plot them. There are many practical tips how to navigate the LabView interface quickly and efficiently. Chapters 8 and 9 introduce the advance analysis VIs (included only in the &quot;full&quot; but not in the &quot;base&quot; labview package) and demonstrate how to program nonlinear least squares fitting and Fast Fourier Transform. Finally, the last 3 chapters teach programming of data acquisition boards - analog to digital conversion (digitizing oscilloscope), digital to analog conversion (PID temperature control), and GPIB control of instruments. While the book covers only the essentials of labview, the topics covered and the examples presented are extremely useful, and they all a must to know to program in LabView.<br />The book comes without a CD, but it is not necessary as the book describes the process of building of each VI so accurately and in so detailed way that it is very easy to follow the guidelines. <br />The book came out in 1999 and most likely was written using LabView 4. Three more versions of LabView came out since that time. It turned out that using it with newer versions of LabView is quite straightforward. The small changes that were introduced after the version 4 sometimes make it necessary to change the VIs slightly, but it is easy to figure out what changes are required using the error messages and LabView help. For instance, newer versions of LabView require that the conditional terminal in the While loop be wired; Replace Array Element is now called Replace Array Subset; there is no need to construct Global Variables using a while loops' shift registers (although it is interesting to learn how this can be done), etc. I counted only 10 small changes which had to be done to the programs on the first 220 pages of the book - and no errors or typos whatsoever! <br />To run the programs in Chapters 1-7 any LabView version will do; to run the programs in Ch. 8 and 9 one needs &quot;Full&quot; package (the &quot;base&quot; one does not contain the advanced analysis VIs); and finally, for the last 3 chapters one needs a computer with DAQ and GPIB boards. However, the book is so well written that you can read the text,look through the VI diagrams, and learn from this even if you do not have the proper software or hardware. <br />The book is very detailed, but at the same time everything that is in there is necessary; there are no off-topic discussions or jokes - almost 400 pages of straight-to-the-topic presentation. <br />The bottom line is that it is a fantastic introduction to LabView for beginners, which I can highly recommend. Well deserved five stars - and an example for the other authors how such books should be written!	2004-07-18
US	52822743	R2MQ6N7J47D8LJ	2287596852	600356061	Visual Mathematics, Illustrated by the TI-92 and the TI-89	Books	5	13	13	N	N	College-level calculus illustrated on graphing calculator	TI-89 is a little computer in itself, and this book is a good example how much can be done with it with proper knowledge and experience. This book covers quite high-end stuff, a short summary of the table of contents will give you an idea: Discrete dynamical systems, Differential equations, Fourier analysis, interpolation and approximation, orthogonality, eigenvalues and eigenvectors.  Each section starts with formulation of the problem, description of relevant theorems, followed by description of the algorithm(s) to solve it, then (if necessary) a TI-89 program is described, then finally screenshots from the calculator screen are shown. It is assumed that the reader is familiar with the calculator, its functions, and its programming language - there is no introduction or instructions how to use it, except for a 20-page long chapter at the very end. The book can be looked at from two points of view - first, as a hands-on tutorial on how to use the TI-89 and TI-92 to solve complicated mathematical problems, second, one can think about this book primarily as a textbook in mathematics as it gives a good tretise of many mathematical problems and only 25-35% of the text deals with the calculator - the rest is pure math. According to the authors, the uniqueness of their approach is that it allows the readers to study complicated topics of mathematics and immediately see how they work by experimenting with solving these problems on a calculator, thus making the mathematics &quot;visual&quot;. Unfortunately for this book, it seems to me that many college students tend to use desktop computers equipped with advanced programming languages or commercial packages such as Mathematica or Mathlab for problems of such caliber. I can undestand it - it is much better to write on a resume that you know how to solve problems in Matlab than you know how to use TI-89. Yet it does not diminish the value of this book as a textbook on mathematics as well as one of the few manuals which teach how to do really complicated things on TI-89. My opinion - A very good book for those few who can appreciate it and have time and desire to make it to the end and to learn both mathematical concepts and their implementation on TI-89. NOT a book for high school students. NOT a tutorial on basic functions of the graphing calculator. NOT even a full-scale tutorial on advanced programming - rather a sequence of illustrated examples with some hints along the way. Takes time to get to the end.	2004-06-29
US	52822743	R2T8MTWAOX24S8	0898867525	968422722	An Outdoor Family Guide to Lake Tahoe (Outdoor Family Guides)	Books	3	15	15	N	N	excellent organiztion; somewhat outdated; lacks details	PROS: The organization of this book is outstanding. It has an overview map with location of each hike clearly marked by its number. It has a table of hikes with difficulty ratings, length, usage, and activities. It has brief summary of how to handle high altitute, ticks, bears, and mosquitos, and what to put into the backpack for a hike. Each hike comes with a little individual map. Each trail is rated as suitable for hiking, biking, or both. 58 trails described in the book is a very manageble number which makes choosing the right one easy. It is quite well described what to expect during the hike. It is the best organized book on hikes I have ever seen!!!<br />CONS: the information in the book is not always up-to-date; small details which could help you to find trailhead or the right turn are often not there; maps appear to be traced from topographic maps and are accurate, but show very little besides the trail and starting and final points. Very mathematical approach requires meticulous counting of distances. <br />PERSONAL EXPERIENCE: we took this book for a two-day weekend at Tahoe. On our first day, we decided to take trail #6 to Watson Lake. The book suggests taking unpaved Watson Lake Road and turn left on road 16N73C in 5.9 miles. In reality it turned out that the road is called &quot;Mt. Watson Rd.&quot;, that it is paved for at least 12 miles, that there are quite a few roads on the left, but none of them has sign &quot;16N73C&quot;. There are no hints in the book how to find the right road other than distance from the highway, and we of course did not realize that the distance was the only way to find that road. We were looking for a sign, missed the 5.9 miles reading, and then wasted 2 hours driving back and forth, but did not find the turn to the lake and gave up. <br />On the next day, we went for #16, Five Lakes Trail. The book suggests to drive on Alpine Meadows Road for 2.1 miles to the trailhead which is opposite to Deer Park Drive. We found Deer Park Drive 1.6 miles from the beginning of the road, were confused by why it is not 2.1 miles down the road, thought that perhaps it was a typo in the book, and spent 15 minutes looking for the trail - until we asked a local who told us that Deer Park Drive is a half-loop which intersects Alpine Meadows Road twice, here and half a mile down the road. <br />In both cases, we got a good deal of frustration. I will not repeat here what my wife said about this book and what she suggested to do with it! A good map could certainly help us - but we did not have one, and the maps in this book do not show anything except for the countour of the trail and the final destination - as a rule, neither landmarks along the trail nor intersecting trails are indicated. <br />BOTTOMLINE: If your family enjoys hiking with a GPS unit and a topographic map and loves the idea of counting 3.1 miles along the road, then another 2.7 miles after a turn, and you never forget to reset your trip meter after a turn when you are driving - you will get the most from this book and will love it. On the other hand, if you like to rely on verbal descriptions more than on accurate numbers and want a book that warns you that there are two crossings with Deer Park Drive and you should park at the upper one, or expect the book to describe what you will see when you arrive to an important turn to make you feel safe that you did not miss it, or if you like to see detailed maps or even fragments of topographic maps on one of the pages - then you may find this book very frustrating because the language it talks to you is not the language you expect to hear. It seems that instructions were very carefully verified against the map - but were not necessarily checked by real-life family hikers! A few more touches could've made this book really great. Maybe I was unfortunate to choose poorly described trails, or was not a kind of hiker that this book was written for - but I got my share of frustration which could beeasily prevented by just several words in the text. My advise - if you get this book, carefully track the distances, expect that some things written in the book do not match the reality, and keep a topographic map at hand - and you'll be fine.	2004-06-22
US	52822743	R3SGGXBZBFBZBL	0321213467	768076722	Premiere Pro for Windows: Visual QuickPro Guide	Books	4	15	15	N	Y	illustrated alternative manual	This book covers essentially the same material as one finds in the manual provided by Adobe with the program. The difference is mostly in that the Visual QuickPro guide is much better illustrated, i.e., practically each step is not only explained verbally but also shown in a picture. This makes it easy to use, and you can even read this book without sitting in front of a computer screen. Unfortunately, this book does not offer much in addition to Adobe manual and online help besides the nice illustrations. In many cases, the issues which are poorly explained in Adobe manual are equally poorly explained in this book. In those instances where Visual QuickPro guide goes beyond the Adobe manual, the explanations, albeit helpful, are mostly more detailed and better illustrated, but they do not necessarily go much more in-depth than what you would find in Adobe manual in more concise form. If you did not understand something from Adobe manual, QuickPro guide will most likely be of little help either.  Additionally, the QuickPro guide is only about the menus, controls, and functions of Premiere Pro. You will not find there any practical wisdom how to make great movies, or choose tasteful combination of effects and transitions, or create cool video effects. This is an alternative manual, nothing more, nothing less. The bottom line is: if you have an Adobe manual, this book will not add much to it. If you don't have an original manual but want to learn how to use Premeiere pro, it will work as an excellent and reasonably priced substitute and I can highly recommended it to those who have the program but not the manual. The reason why I ranked it four stars is that although it is a great substitute for a manual, it can hardly be called a valuable addition to it.	2004-02-26
US	52822743	R1NJ22ZJQG2AXT	0240802691	327034293	Video Editing: A Postproduction Primer	Books	1	7	7	N	N	mostly outdated and nearly useless	I like to find in the book the material which I expect from its title. I would've rated this book much higher if it were called &quot;History of video editing&quot;, which is pretty much what it is about.  The fourth edition of this book, published in 2002, is heavily based on its earlier editions, which date back to the early 1990s or late 1980s. The majority of illustrations depict equipment which was used back in the 1970s-1980s. The technical editing tools presented by the author look like museum items compared to the modern computer-based editing tools, and the manuals of these programs would tell much more about digital editing than this book. The old material is occasionally updated by references to high definition TV standards and modern video tape formats, which are not clearly separated from the old ones, and it is not even clear which of 10+ standards used in consumer-level camcorders and in professional equipment. Some ideas on how to shoot videos to avoid common mistakes are useful, but again it is just a short chapter. To make things worse, the book contains a lot of practically useless, for most people, information such as structure of tracks on 2-inch-wide video tape used in the first videorecorder introduced in  1956, or (more modern example) position of audio and video tracks on VHS tapes. A consumer like I am can edit home videos without any of this knowledge. <br />It was interesting to learn when the first videotape recorder was invented and see a picture of that device and its designers, including Ray Dolby who later founded Dolby Labs. But you know, I expected to find in this book much more up-to-date and much more practical things, judging by its title and its 2002 (for the 4th edition) publication date. It took me 20 minutes to read the book (or whaever I thought was useful) from the beginning to the end. <br />I suppose, the 1996 year edition depicted at the top of this page is even more outdated.<br />My opinion and advice: Don't waste youmoney on it.	2004-01-08
US	52822743	RSWIB1LIIE4CG	0201710188	583770606	Adobe Premiere 6.0: Classroom in a Book	Books	5	4	4	N	N	excellent practical introduction to Premiere for novices	This book should be looked at as a companion to Adobe manual, or as a practical introduction to Premiere. It guides the user, which is assumed to be a complete novice in Premiere, step by step through hands-on lessons and explains along the way some ideas and principles of digital video editing. As all other &quot;classroom in a book&quot; manuals, it is very well edited proofread (which means that it contains very few errors - if the authors say &quot;click on icon A in palette B&quot;, they mean exactly that) and all files which the book refers to can indeed be found on the enclosed CD (I saw so many books with some of the tutorial files missing...). Unlike some other reviewers, I had no problems reproducing the actions described in the book on the computer screen, as long as I was careful to reproduce the steps exactly as they are described. <br />All this said, this book is not intended to be used as an advanced level manual. While it touches to some extent all features of Premiere, it does not necessarily goes into details of all of them. One could definitely benefit from a combination of practical lessons offered by this book with insights that can be found in other books. But it is invaluable as a means of the first exposure to Premiere and as a way to get a basic practical training in Premiere in a short time. <br />The tutorial files and the structure of lessons are the same as in the earlier version of the  book, &quot;Premiere 5.0 classroom in a book&quot;. The difference in mostly in explanation of DV format, DV capture, and new features of the timeline and audio editing. This book can also be used for Premiere 6.5 since the difference is primarily in improved title editor and availability of MPEG2 export. <br />I read this book twice within a week, first time just reproducing step after step and trying to grab the concepts, and the second time playing around and experimenting. After these two readings, I feel that I have a good understanding of the program and understand its functions and procedures involved in digital editing to the level sufficient to apply this knowledge to practical editing. <br />I do believe that &quot;learning by doing&quot; is the best way to learn how to work with a piece of software. Therefore, I ranked it 5 stars - with a note &quot;book for beginners&quot;	2003-12-27
US	52822743	R2CYY9H4JR2ABE	0028620550	882892176	Frommer's Yosemite & Sequoia/King's Canyon National Park	Books	5	5	5	N	N	as good as a pocket guide can get	Yosemite is one of my favorite places. I fall in love with this majestic park on my first trip there, and try to spend at least several days every year hiking Yosemite trails. I also like Sequoia and Kings Canyon, which are great parks for hikers and backpackers. Since I am not new to these parks, I was curious how the judgement and advice of this book would agree with my own impressions. I was pleasantly surprised. In this book, Frommer's made an outstanding example of how good a pocket-size guide can be. It has only 170 pages on three parks, and yet all essentials are covered - how to get there, what to see, where to stay, it has maps of the parks and of the hiking trails, it has lists of the best views accessible from the road and ratings of hikes, it has information for backpackers (based on the personal experience of the author). In my opinion and experience, the ratings of trails are very accurate, and descriptions of hotels and restaurants are unusually unbiased. In fact, I could not find a single one which I would not agree with. All ratings/descriptions maintain positive attitude, but it is very easy to read between the lines, e.g., if the book says that a certain restaurants has \\"a simple but adequate menu\\" and does not give it a single star, it means that it is a crappy and overpriced snack bar, but it will help you to survive until you get to a better place; when it says that the place is excellent and gives it three stars, then it is really good. One can surely find more detailed books on day hikes or backpacking in Yosemite. However, no other travel guide gives so much practical information and good advice in a condensed form. If you are planning to visit Yosemite for a day or two and do not know where to start, I cannot think about a better book to recommend.	2003-07-17
US	52822743	R2Q5THY7K9W8FG	0789726254	889755452	Absolute Beginner's Guide to Personal Firewalls	Books	4	8	8	N	N	not perfect, but quite useful	This books leaves a mixed impression. First of all, although the book is called &quot;for absolute beginners&quot;, it is not written as a book for housewives who never saw a computer before. It is interesting, informative, and the reader is assumed to be knowledgeable and capable of making informed decisions. In fact, one has to have a certain understanding of Windows (yes, it is not oriented towards Mac users) and TCP/IP to understand what the author is talking about. The author obviously has very extensive knowledge of internet security, and the book includes much of his practical knowldge. The negative side is that less than 1/3 of the book is generic and applicable to any firewall, i.e., discusses why home networks need to be protected, and where are the potential areas of vulnerability. The rest is step by step description of how to install and configure several commercial firewalls. Frankly, I do not understand who needs all these details since installation/setup guidelines are always included in the software manual which one gets in printed or electronic form together with the purchased program, whereas it is an obvious fact that any particular version of the program gets obsolete very quickly. I doubt that any of the descriptions of software from the book remains relevant two years after the book came out in 2001. I would rather prefer to see more generic (and less dependent on the software version) discussion of how to take advantage of the features present in most firewalls (blocking certain protocols, applications, IP addresses, etc.). All this said, this book is &quot;beginner's guide&quot; only because it does not get into too many details of what exactly firewalls do, and how they do it. However, those few items which are discussed are covered in significant depth and on a good professional level.	2003-07-15
US	52822743	R3VHYWIUUZKU43	1578260582	668095144	Ski Flex: Flexibility, Fitness, and Conditioning for Better Skiing (Sports Flex Series)	Books	4	29	30	N	Y	Flexibility - yes!  Fitness and conditioning - not really...	It is well established that stretching improves agility and quickness of skiers. Resistance exercises strengthen the muscles, but they also shorten them. Stretching makes muscles longer again. This leads to flexibility (greater range of motion in the joints) which allows to get the most out of your training program and helps to ski longer, in better control, with less fatigue. Many books in the past emphasized primarily physical training during off-season period. In the last few years, flexibility and stretches got increasingly large attention. This book is entirely focused on stretches. It contains a well-illustrated 10-20 minute warm-up and stretching routine, and several additional excersises to improve balance. The exercises are very easy, and can be done, e.g., in the morning before work. They help to wake up and to feel better. Additionally, there is a section on warm-up and stretches recommended for the slopes before skiing (partly with the skis on), and a few exercises on skis to improve balance. <br />The authors emphasize that it is important to do these stretches every day since the result will be nil if you do them irregularly. However, it is not quite clear what kind of progress you can expect if you do them every day. While I appreciate the importance of stretches, I strongly suspect that the result may be rather insignificant if you do these routines every day, but nothing besides them. Stretches obviously work best when they are combined with more vigorous exercise program, such as strength training or aerobics. It is a pity that this book includes very few of those - if it did, it could be an indispensable source for pre-season conditioning. The good part, however, that practically all suggested exercises can be done at home on the floor or standing against the wall, with the equipment which can be purchased at a local harware store, or with no equipment at all. <br />The subtitle of the book (see the bottom of the book cover) is misleading as it says &quot;flexibility, fitness, and conditioning for better skiing&quot;. Flexibility is definitely there, and is very well written; fitness and conditioning - sorry, guys, I did not see much of it in the book. Four stars.	2003-06-22
US	52822743	R3AX6R27F4ENDJ	0962941816	574833987	Day Hiking Kings Canyon	Books	5	3	3	N	N	very practical and useful	&quot;Day hiking Kings Canyon&quot; may well be the best book on day hikes(1 to 10 miles one way) in Kings Canyon national park and in the wilderness areas surrounding the park. It covers 50 trails in 5 areas: cedar grove, monarch wilderness, grant grove, redwood mountain, and jennie lakes wilderness.  Each of the five sections starts with a brief (2-3 pages) introduction about the history, climate, and specific features of the area. The description of the hikes are concise (1-3 pages each), and yet very detailed. There is an individual topographic map for each trail, half-a-page to a whole page in size, which is located either at the beginning or at the end of description of each trail. Besides the total length of the trail, estimated hiking distance, elevation gain, and relative difficulty, the author provides detailed description of what to expect on each mile of the trail, suggests on which parts of the trail it may get hot in summer, where one can expect mosquitos, where the vews are beautiful, and even where one can find swimming holes on the river. Frequently, alternative return routes are suggested to make hikes more interesting. Finally, parts of the trail where the hikers should exercise caution due to slippery rocks or other hazards are indicated. <br />I studied this book side by side with two others, Frommer's &quot;Yosemite and Sequoia/Kings Canyon National Parks&quot;, by Don and Barbara Laine, and &quot;50 best short hikes in Sequoia/Kings Canyon&quot; by John Krist. The first one is a pocket guide, contains much fewer hikes, and the descriptions are about a paragraph each. It is a very decent guide for the visitors arriving for a day by car, but does not help much on the trail. The second one is similar to &quot;Day hiking Kings Canyon&quot; in the way how the hikes are described, but the descriptions are shorter, maps are less acurate, and they are located at the very end of the book, so you have to flip pages from the middle to the end of the bookto follow the guidelines. I found it very inconvenient. Hence, of these three books, my book of choice is definitely &quot;Day hiking Kings Canyon&quot;. The only two drawbacks are that it does not have ratings of the trails in terms of their scenery, so it takes some reading to decide what to choose, and that it has very few photographs. It also could be squeezed in a smaller format (by using smaller fonts) to make it lighter and easier to carry in a backpack. Other than that, this book is an excellent source of information for any hiker.	2003-06-21
US	52822743	RFBIUMA8LBY8O	1576751678	578761329	The Ultimate Competitive Advantage: Secrets of Continually Developing a More Profitable Business Model	Books	5	5	5	N	N	excellent source to learn the concept of business models	I was not specically looking for a book on business models and got my hands on this one by chance. After I read the first ten pages (an example of a caddy, a guy who helps golf players by carrying their clubs, who developed his own business model and become prosperous), my understanding of what business models are and who can use them was turned upside down. In my ignorance, I thought that business models are used primarily by medium to large companies. It turned out to be completely wrong. A business model is a vision, an idea, a concept which distingusihes a business, gives it an edge over the competitors, and ultimately leads to commercial success of their business, be it a huge corporation or a small one-self-employed-person company. We all heard stories of successful enterpreneurs who changed the way how the business is done. With the benefit of hindsight, their ideas appear very simple, straightforward, and even self-evident. And yet, for each great success there are probably hundreds of unsuccessful busness models which led to failures. How can one predict which model will work? <br />D.Mitchell and C.Coles believe that one can learn from both the good and the bad experience of hundreds of people, ranking from CEOs of major corporation to tiny business. They spent years talking to people who made fortunes on their successful ideas, and to those who tried and failed. They accumulated, distilled, and analyzed in their book what they learned about the business models, the ways how they were developed, and the errors which are commonly made. While I am not in the position to judge whether &quot;The ultimate compeitive advantage&quot; may be of value to professionals (probably it is), I can see two groups of readers which can definitely benefit from reading it. They are owners of small businesses striving to get a greater share of the market or improve their profitability, and curious people who do not run businesses, but want to understand the way how the competitive economy works, and why some companies are doing better than the others. The book contains numerous examples which we all heard about, or even dealt with as customers (although did not necessarily understand WHY it works this way, and how it was related to the business models) - e.g., why GM was consistently loosing its market share and dropped the Oldsmobile line, or why it was good for Disney to introduce multi-day passports to Disneyland, or how Southwest airlines adjusts its destinations and pricing policy to maximize profits and customer satisfaction. The examples are mixed with discussions how to critically review the existing models and develop new ones, how to test the ideas, and how to implement them. Each chapter ends with stimulating questions and suggestions. The book is not an easy reading, be prepared to spend hours reading and thinking, but the information and knowledge gained from it is well worth the effort.	2003-04-28
US	52822743	R2SMOWKUFZWFK0	0792229630	787479511	Exploring Canada's Spectacular National Parks	Books	3	11	11	N	N	travel notes by National Geographic journalists	This book consists of essays, or rather travel notes, put together by a National Georgaphic team. They write about their impressions from travelling through Canada's national parks by boat, horse, or by foot. They write about everything they see, stories they are told by the natives, the weather, their findings in the forest, their guides, etc. The photographs in the book are as stunning as you would expect from National Geographic photographers. However, if you are planning to go to one of these parks, you would hardly find any useful information in this book. There are no maps, no info on activities, lodging, not even clear information how to get to the location where the beautiful pictures in the book were taken. This book is a good choice to read if you want are curious about Canada's national parks, but have no intention of going there.	2003-04-26
US	52822743	R1RZ1YUBXE258P	1584280808	495629402	Photo Retouching with Adobe Photoshop	Books	1	3	3	N	N	poorly structured, no tutorial files	Do yourself a favor, spend your money on a really good book such as Katrin Eismann's \\"Photoshop restoration and retouching\\" instead of buying this one. I read both; I enjoyed the Eismann's book and felt that I learned next to nothing reading the Lute's book. I think, there are two major reasons why I felt this way:<br />1. This is yet another step-by-step tutorial without images to work with. There is no CD and no downloadable files. Since one has to have images quite similar to those in the book (and due to the nature of the tasks discussed in the book these images may be hard to find) in order to reproduce the tutorials, I found that the only way how I could learn anything at all was is to play the steps of image processing in imagination. I discovered a couple of useful tricks while doing it, but certainly the concept \\"learning by doing\\" does not work well when the \\"doing\\" part is stripped off. The most ridiculous thing in the book is that the author sometimes suggests something like \\"click anywhere in the blue background\\". Come on, this book is published in black and white, there are no tutorial images, what are you talking about?! <br />2. The approach is based on tools, not on problems. Katrin Eismann's book starts with identification of what is wrong with the image - e.g., its too light, or its color balance is wrong, or it has scratches, etc. - and then suggests solution to each particular problem. Each section in Eismann's book is about a particular problem in the image, and a variety of ways how to solve this problem. Gwen Lute's book starts from the tools and techniques; each section is dedicated to a certain group of tools, and it is shown how they can be used. For instance, there is a cection on layers and masks, another section on filters, etc. As practical as this approach is, it does not give you a systematic knowledge how to identify problems in a photograph, and how to solve them. The best you get from this approach - a review of the photoshop tools. You are not getting any better in retouching, though!	2003-02-08
US	52822743	R1RMHLES9WOIGY	1563963191	682943304	The Physics of Skiing: Skiing at the Triple Point	Books	3	10	11	N	N	lots of data; lack of concept; slightly out-of-date	I am a firm believer that understanding of the mechanics of a carving ski and of the forces transferred between the skis and the skier as he makes his way down the slope are necessary to better understand why one or another skier's action may help to intiate a turn, or shorten its radius, or, in contrast, will lead to a skidded turn. &quot;The physics of skiing&quot; is the only book I could find which addresses the mechanics and physics of skiing. It starts with the physical properties of snow and its formation in the atmosphere, then discusses the properties of snow equipment (mostly downhill skis, briefly snowboards and cross-country skis), and then goes into dynamics of gliding, wedging, and carving. The book is written as a college textbook with numerous (although fairly simple) equations and diagrams of forces. It requires a sufficiently strong background in physics. Although it contains a large amount of interesting data, I was not quite satisfied with it for two reasons. First, it lacks a concept. It is more a review of different literature sources on skiing-related topics than an analysis combining understanding of physics of skiing with a discussion of how this knowledge is applicable to modern skiing techniques. It provides the readers with the background theory, but does not lead to any suggestions how to benefit from this understanding and improve their skiing technique. Too bad that the authors did not have a good ski instructor in their company to make the book more useful and down-to-earth. Secondly, since it is based on references published between 1977 and 1997, part of the discussion is more applicable to the old almost straight skis than to modern supersidecut skis.	2003-01-25
US	52822743	REEN55HPZ0OZG	0672319543	16287124	How to Use Adobe Photoshop 6	Books	4	2	2	N	N	nice reference source; but not so many would need it	About 300 pages thick, this book provides a nice reference to all main operations in Photoshop. Typical examples are: selecting objects using magic wand, removing color cast, exporting paths to Illustrator, etc. Although the book shows a couple of nice tricks, it mostly confined to basic image operations. Each operation is presented in 5-8 easy steps, which are concisely explained and well illustrated. The book is published in full color and makes very nice impression. There is no CD and no tutorial files, but they are not needed since all examples and explanations are so simple and straightforward that the reader can reproduce these steps on any image, or make the whole procedure in his head. There is also no particular order in presentation of the material suitable for learning, for instance paths are used for the first time some 50 pages before the section which explains how to create them. Obviously, it is assumed that you already know the basics, but may not remember the details.<br />I am not sure, though, what audience this book is targeted at. Since I am somewhat familiar with Photoshop, I could not evaluate how well this book would work for a beginner. I noted, however, that many basic ideas of Photoshop are not explained in sufficient detail, and a novice may find it difficult to grasp the concepts of layers, channels, and paths from this book alone. An experienced user does not need this book either since, well, he already knows this stuff. <br />It a nicely printed book, an interesting concept; but for me it is definitely not the best choice of a tutorial on Photoshop on any level.	2002-10-01
US	52822743	R6F86V2YHV6CK	0809247186	492702489	Alpine Ski Maintenance and Repair	Books	4	23	24	N	Y	good chapter on maintenance; not much on repair	Technicals: about 140 pages, about 60 of them about maintenance (tuning) of skis, 20 pages on boot fit and maintenance, 15 pages on bindings, and about 5 on poles and goggles. Impression: the section on ski tuning and repair is very good, extensively illustrated and well explained. The tools and materials required for each operation are explained in great detail, and it seems to me (to the best of my limited knowledge of ski maintenance) that they did not change much since the book was published. The section on bindings is very generic and out-of-date. It gives some ideas what tools are used to install or move bindings, but the level of presentation is not even close to the level of discussion of ski tuning. Since bindings were so different 15 years ago, there is nothing about adjusting binding settings in this book that can be used. The section on boots is even more useless. Thus, if you are looking for a book on how to maintain and repair the bottom of your skis, you have found one; if you are looking for a manual how to deal with bindings or boots, keep on looking.	2002-10-01
US	52822743	RRB3FBAYML8DO	0811730263	772143708	Performance Skiing: Training and Techniques to Make You a Better Alpine Skier	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	packed with information, highly professional, very clear	I would  give this book 6 stars if I could as it is the best book on skiing-related fitness I have seen so far. Written by a professional ski coach, it is filled with information starting from the body metabolism, plyometric and strength training exercises, to training which can be perfomed while skiing. All off-snow exercises which I saw in skiing videos, books, skiing journals, and on the internet are in this book. The importance of each group of exercises is clearly explained. No special equipment is required (except for the access to an average gym for strength training). The suggested training routines are based on US skiing team manuals and on over 80 references cited in the bibliography. All 200 pages are densely packed with information, all presented so well that it does not overwhelm you at all. Another aspect of this book which I liked is that the author treats the readers as intellegent people, who can put together their own training schedule according to their needs and possibilities. There is no suggested training schedules, just recommendations how much one should exercise and why not more or less than that. Although it is not a book on skiing, there are some tips on racing and ski tuning as well. This book is worth many others published on this topic, and I applaud the author for doing such a fine job!	2002-09-18
US	52822743	R3IPQCCMYIPP2I	1556983425	723685297	Ski Shape: How to Get Fit for Skiing : The Ultimate Illustrated Guide	Books	5	1	1	N	N	a fine book on pre-season ski conditioning	This book is a clear, easy to follow manual how to get to prepare yourself for a skiing season. While my personal preference goes to &quot;Performance skiing&quot; by George Thomas, which I rated six stars in my review for its information content, the simplicity and efficiency of &quot;Ski shape&quot; warrants its high ranking. It is a large format book on 120 pages, printed in very large fonts, with lots of large pictires and huge margings. The publishers obviously did not care about preserving the forests on our planet. Although due to empty and helf-empty pages and huge typeset there is not so much information in the book as it appears at first glance, it is still enough to get the readers fit for the season. The book contains a very well designed and illustrated pre-season training program, which includes warm-up exercises, stretching, weight training, and power (plyometric) training such as jumping. There are also recommendations for on-snow warm-up and even on the best type of food to eat on your skiing trip. Each exercise is illustrated by a photograph, which is great (actually, this was one of the primary factors why I rated it five stars). Another good aspect of the book is that every exercise is explained in terms of what muscles it trains and how it is beneficial for skiing. This book is like an introductory session with a fitness trainer - it takes 30 minutes to read, you do not learn a lot of high science, but you get a clear picture how you should proceed with your training. Unless you are curious what the other training options are, it has all you need to get started.	2002-09-18
US	52822743	RW4MFISNY9ZQ3	0070092516	849558156	The Compleat Day Trader: Trading Systems, Strategies, Timing Indicators and Analytical Methods	Books	4	26	28	N	N	For hardcore day traders, and straight to the point	Most books for &quot;day traders&quot; are so general that their techniques and advice can be successfully used by swing-traders (those who keep stocks for several days), and even by longer-term investors. This one is different. The author, Jake Bernstein, strongly advocates real day trading, when no securities ever kept overnight. Therefore, his techniques are usable for very short term trading only. <br />The advantage of this book is that it has very little general rhetoric and comes straight to the point, that is to the techniques which the author finds profitable. Basically, 90% of the book is about the use of technical indicators (such as various moving averages and oscillators) to determine potentially profitable entry and exit points. The topics discussed in particular detailed manner are the use of moving averages, stochastic indicator, moving average channel (MAC), relative strength index (RSI), momentum, and techniques for trading of opening gaps. The author also suggests several oscillators of his own. However, despite the simplicity of these indicators, one has to own software such as Omega Research Trade Station to calculate and plot these home-made oscillators in real time, or write a program yourself. There are also several chapters applicable to futures only (actually, the whole book is about trading in the futures market, but 95% of techniques are equally applicable to stocks). <br />The great advantage of the book is that it is very specific, clearly illustrated, and gives plenty of detailed technical advice and a number of potentially profitable trading techniques. Be advised, however, that those who are interested in trading but do not have enough capital to take profits from half-a-tick changes (and I, too, belong to this group) cannot really take advantage of this book. No trend and no trade longer than a few hours is discussed there! Therefore, this book is for the serious day traders, and only for them. If you are a day trader, this book isa must; if you are not, do not bother buying it but rather consider other options, e.g., the excellent book &quot;How to  get started in electronic day trading&quot; by D.S.Nassar which is good for traders on any time frame.	2000-10-08
US	52822743	R10X02PV8NF13C	0735200777	870275219	Computerized Trading: Maximizing Day Trading and Overnight Profits (New York Institute of Finance)	Books	2	24	26	N	N	A collection of articles about investing	This book is written by 21 authors guided by one editor. All these 22 people are certainly experienced traders, but unfortunately most of them are inexperienced writers. When I got this book in my hands I was initially excited and impressed. As a matter of fact, I thought that this book may be the best one I saw so far: it is thicker than most other books on trading (415 pages), it seems to be written in unusually professional and serious language, and the table of contents promises that all substantial aspects of trading and portfolio management are covered.<br />However, I was quickly disillusioned when I started reading it.  The thing is that each of 21 distinguished traders got a task of writing a 15-page essay on topic suggested by the editor. They did it to the best of their abilities, but unfortunately they did not succeed in creating anything better than a collection of articles on the subject of investing, which makes the impression of a bunch of trees with no forest in sight. There is no consistency in this book: some things are repeated over and over again whereas others are mentioned but never explained, some things are unnecessary and uselessly detailed, whereas the others are too general. The chapters do not provide sufficient background and support for each other as they should. Some chapters are excessively academic; some  are totally out of date as they advise to  call your broker to buy or sell securities, or give  detailed explanations how to write a program to build a plot of a technical indicator which now can be downloaded for free from many different web sites. Even though everyone has a good chance to find a few  useful tips in this book (I, for instance,liked chapters on strategies of entering and exiting the market), the overall useful outcome is quite disappointing and way below not only of what these authors could potentially teach the readers given their experience and knowledge, but also below the average level of literature on investing. Therefore I could not give &quot;Computerized trading&quot; more than a 2 star rating, and I strongly recommend against buying it.	2000-10-05
US	52822743	R1JQDDO1VZJSQR	0793131138	782822658	Digital Day Trading; Moving from One Winning Stock Position to the Next	Books	2	11	13	N	N	lots of pages and little content	I read about five books on trading techniques in the last four weeks before writing this review, and liked this one least of all. I never actually count pages in a book when writing a review, but I was so much surprised how such a (considerably) thick book can contain so little useful information that I made an exception. Judge by yourself: the structure of this book is as follows: <br />The first 35 pages (sec. 1-3) is a broad introduction into the psychology of successful day trading, which says all correct things but its style is so dry that you would rather skip to the next section than to read it carefully. Even if you do read every word, you will get such absolutely correct but next to useless statements as the following recipe for successful trading (p.33): &quot;1) identify an opportunity, 2) take immediate action (buy or cell), and 3) feel good no matter the result as long as the trade is consistent with you specific method or technical bias and was based on probability&quot;.<br />The second part of the book (Sec. 4) uses another 50 pages for interviews with several successful traders. This section is not too bad, although one cannot expect to learn much about techniques of successful individuals (even assuming that they are willing to disclose all their secrets) from 6-10 page-long interviews.<br />The third part on technical analysis is the most useful part of the book. It discusses how to identify trends and select entry points. Unfortunately, the charts used to illustrate the text are too numerous and large, and the text itself tends to be somewhat on the side of general statements. It is sufficient to say that about 50 out of 80 pages in this section are charts, and in my opinion only about 10 pages contain really useful concrete practical wisdom. These 10 pages were very useful since they suggest analysis techniques which I have not seen anywhere else, but its only 10 pages out of 260!<br />The rest of the book, about another 100 pages, is essentially a large appendix with lists of all NASDAQ and S&amp;P-500 stocks, long excerpts from the TradeCast 3.0 user manual (who needs this section? those who bought this program had presumably gotten the full manual, and those who do not own it do not need these excerpts), and a glossary.<br />My advice: don't waste your time and money, there is so many better books around than this one.	2000-09-30
US	52822743	RHOAP6U9AVK1T	0812932501	72889633	Online Investing: The Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition's Complete Guide to Becoming a Successful Internet Investor	Books	4	28	28	N	N	very basic guidebook for novices	This book is an entertaining, written in easy non-technical language, but VERY basic text about what types of investing and trading exist, how they work (i.e., what and where is traded), and where to look for further information about these issues on the internet. The book does a good job discussing what sources of information can be trusted on the web, and which not, and gives an useful list of URLs on every investing-related topic you can think of. The comparative analysis of online brokerages and their services and fees is quite good. Stocks, IPOs, mutual funds, bonds, futures, and options are explained on a very simple level, which will help those who never heard these words to understand what they mean. I liked that the book is  unbiased: unlike most other guides on online investing it does not promote a specific web page or a specific online brokerage. This book is fun to read, and it would be a good starting point for people who decided to go into online investing (but never did it before) and have little or no internet experience.  However, my opinion is that it does not woth purchasing if you already have investing experience or read a few other books about investing because the book is just too simple and not as much about investing strategies as about the web resources, discussion boards, and investor stories. The authors' analysis of what drives the discussion boards is probably the only part which I have not seen anywhere else; this part may be useful for investors on all levels. Therefore, my rating is 5 stars for the novices, 3 for everyone else, which makes it 4 stars in average. By the way, most of this book is available online on wall street journal web page, so check it out before you buy.	2000-09-27
US	52822743	R17F6B3EX7Q8CS	076453372X	817379468	Photoshop 5 Bible: Gold Edition	Books	3	17	18	N	N	a comprehensive book, but could be much better written	All books on computer software can generally be divided in two groups:  manuals, which describe all features of the program in a condensed  (encyclopedic) form, and tutorials, which guide the readers through a  sequence of steps to teach them how to perform either basic or advanced  functions. Good manuals are concise, accurate, and comprehensive. They can  be used over and over again to look up the necessary function or keyboard  shortcut. Tutorials are usually wordy, cover only selected functions of the  program, but frequently go far beyond the basics by showing examples how to  achieve non-trivial effects. A large number of exercises is a must for a  tutorial. <br />The problem of &quot;Photoshop Bible&quot; is that although  this book is essentially a manual, it is written in the wordy style of a  tutorial; on the other hand, it is not quite up to the standards of  tutorials either. It is a manual because with a very few exceptions it only  discusses the functions and applications of each single menu item of  Photoshop. To be fair, I must admit that this it is done on a very detailed  level, which makes this book one of the most information-filled and  comprehensive guides on Photoshop. I was truly impressed by the author's  level of knowledge and experience with Photoshop. The problem is that the  book is not particularly reader-friendly: it takes enormous effort and time  to digest and memorize all those practical tips and tricks offered by Deke  McClelland. There are reasons for that. To begin with, the book is poorly  organized. The first 300 pages or so are mostly useless and deserve to be  in the appendix. I bet that 95% of average Photoshop users will never see  pantone swatches, will never try duotone printing, and will not spent any  significant time importing all these graphics formats that Photoshop can  read. Recording scripts and 15-page-long table of shortcuts probably should  not be on the first pages, either. Nonetheless, all this stuff takes the  first third of the book. One can easily get bored before getting to the  real stuff.  Another thing that bugged me a lot are tutorial files. The  books comes with a CD-ROM, and it does contain some tutorial files, but  they are very well hidden in the directory structure among other pieces or  Photoshop artwork. Furthermore, neither their names nor the folder name  suggest that they are tutorials. I discovered them accidentally when I was  on the page 400 or so. Apparently, the author's idea was that the readers  should realize what kind of fools they are only at the very end since the  first page where these tutorial files are mentioned is the LAST page of the  text. About 800 preceding pages NEVER mention a single name of a tutorial  file, and it is up to the reader to figure out whether a particular picture  is included as a file, what the name of this file is, and where to find it  on the disk. The fact that all files need type and color space conversion,  and that their resolution appears to be much higher than the one use by the  author, so if the book says &quot;feature the selection by 2 pixels&quot;,  you should probably go for 10 to reach a similar effect, only adds to the  confusion. The bootom line is that even if you find and use all tutorial  files on the CD-ROM, they are still not sufficient to learn everything by  doing. I spent 6 weeks reading this book every evening, I learned a lot,  but I got overwhelmed to an even greater extent.<br />My personal opinion: The  author probably spent at least a year putting this huge book together. He  has done a great work, but he left it unfinished. Had he spent another  month rearranging the chapters and preparing the tutorial files and  practical exercises to meet the readers expectations (and the standards of  computer literature), it would be a fantastic book. In its present form, I  am not sure that it is worth spending your money, and most important, your  time. This book dumps lots of data on you, butdoes not help you much to  learn it.	2000-08-07
US	52822743	R1BQI1SXMQJONY	0201354020	622938519	Real World Digital Photography	Books	5	47	51	N	N	very detailed, very comprehensive, and very useful.	So far I have not seen a better book on digital photography than this one. The authors did a great job of thinking about every aspect, every problem, every question that a person considering switching to digital photography  may think about. They start with general practical questions, such as what  are the advantages and disadvantages of digital photography compared to  traditional film photography, how good a digital camera should be for each  purpose, how much a digital studio would cost and how  this cost compares  with cost of photography on a film. Then they describe at length how  digital cameras work, what features they must have and may optionally have,  and to which extent these features are useful. Then they discuss what  computer, printer, storage device, and  software you will need to edit,  store, and print your images. Some basic operations in Photoshop are  explained, including preparation of pictures for the web. Finally, there is  a very nice introduction in the essentials of studio and outdoors  photography. <br />The style of writing is very nice - clear, detailed, but at  the same time not too wordy. There is no silly jokes, and only as many  pictures as necessary to illustrate the text. It is worth adding that since  this book is not oriented at particular models of cameras, computers, or  software, but rather deals with general ideas of digital imaging, it will  not get out of date as fast as it happens with most books on computers and  electronics. <br />Books as comprehensive and detailed as this one are few,  and I can highly recommend it for anyone interested in digital photography.  About 400 pages full of detailed information are certainly worth the price  of this book. <br />I would characterize the level of this book from novice to  intermediate, maybe even with some overlap with the advanced level.	2000-07-22
US	52822743	RRRJNGX6TSIP4	0201354241	695063162	Start with a Digital Camera	Books	4	8	8	N	N	a stimulating showcase of what can be done with a digicam	Printed in full color, this about 140 page-long book suggest a lot of ideas what pictures can be taken with a digital camera. It has a small section on the principles of digital photography and necessary computer  equipment, a couple of chapters on photography in general (lighting,  background, etc.), and finally gives many examples of what can be done with  the pictures by editing them in Adobe Photoshop. After all, the major fun  of digital photography is that you can edit an image before printing it!  The only problem is that you need to have Photoshop (along with a vector  drawing program) and should know how to use them to take full advantage of  this book's advice. My overall impression is that although one can find a  more detailed and serious books on digital photography and image  processing, this one may be a good gift to a person who just got his/her  digital camera and needs to read somewhere how to start with it.	2000-06-30
US	52822743	RIY683WOKE7Z5	1558514341	966034252	The Data Compression Book	Books	3	42	46	N	N	a book which has its positive and negative sides...	PROs: 1. It is one of very few books on data compression available on the market. 2. Description of the IDEAS of compression techniques is very well written. 3. The books comes with the C code for most algorithms. 4. Fairly  wide scope of data compression techniques is presented.<br />CONs: 1. Possibly  for copyright reasons, the formats of commonly used file formats are not  disclosed; the enclosed propgrams are generic compression algorithms, which  do not create (or open) actual .ZIP, .ARC, or .JPG files, which can be  opened by commercial programs. Therefore, this book will not help you to  open standard compressed files from your home-made programs. 2. There is a  missing link between the well described ideas (general principles) of the  compression techniques, and their actual algorithms presented as C programs  - namely, the algorithms are not described verbally. You have to analyze  typically 6-page-long programs to understand how the actual encoding is  done. 3. Although there is a section on sound compression, the MP3 standard  is not explained. The same applies to MPEG.<br />SUMMARY: Good to get a  general idea how the data compression is performed. Helpful if you want to  develop your own compressed data format. Of very limited help if you want  to work with standard compressed files in your own program. Requires  knowledge of C and some time to study the enclosed code.	2000-06-19
US	52822743	R1F9WVCATEI8KB	0201354276	794438385	Excel 2000 for Windows (Visual QuickStart Guide)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A+ book for beginners	This book is exactly what its title promises: a visual quickstart guide. While it does not even mention advanced Excel programming techniques, it does a fantastic job of teaching the basics. The issues covered include  editing worksheets (typing, cutting, pasting, etc.), using formulas and  functions, formatting worksheet cells, adding and editing graphic objects  and charts, and printing spreadsheets. The last chapter on advanced  techniques briefly introduces working with databases, 3D references, custom  views and consolidations.<br />The book is exceptionally accurate and very  well cross-referenced. Each step (actually, almost every mouse movement) is  illustrated by a screen image (in average, 4-6 images per page!). The  spreadsheets used as examples in the text are so simple that they can be so  quickly reproduced by typing. Therefore, the lack of a CD-ROM or a floppy  disk containing examples from the book is not a problem. <br />In summary, if  you never used Excel before and need to learn its basics sufficient to put  together simple spreadsheets, this book is likely to be your best choice -  it gets straight to the point, gives you all you need to start, and does  not overload you with unnecessary details. However, be advised that if you  already know some Excel then this book is not for you.	2000-06-16
US	52822743	REKFMAIVHQNZG	0852742703	816302240	Microelectronic Materials (Graduate Student Series in Materials Science and Engineering)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	very compehensive, but somewhat outdated	This book is about materials used in silicon integrated circuit technology, and about the problems and issues related to each individual material. Although it covers some basic physics of semiconductor devices,  including optoelectronic devices (LEDs) and solar cells, 70% of the book is  about growth of silicon (bulk crystals and thin films), metallization  (i.e., interconnect technology), deposition of insulating films, and  packaging. I read several chapters which I was most interested in, and was  very satisfied - it was a very rewarding, informative, and time-efficient  reading. C.R.M.Grovenor has indeed made a great job of presenting the  material and selecting illustrations in this very good textbook, useful for  readers with any background in materials science. The only reason why I  rated it &quot;4 stars&quot; is that semiconductor industry has changed a  lot since this book was published in 1989. While the fundamental  science-related chapters are not affected that much, the  technologically-oriented parts do  not reflect state-of-the-art technology  anymore. Therefore it is helpful to have an overall idea what technology  and materials are used now to distinguish the data which is still relevant  from that which is outdated. Just to give a few examples, metallization  technology is confined in this book to aluminum only (there is no  mentioning of copper metallization which is now taking over); 30 nm SiO_2  layers are called &quot;very thin&quot; (now &quot;very thin&quot; is less  than 3-4 nm); dendritic web and EFG polycrystalline silicon solar cells are  quoted to have an efficiency of less than 1% (presently it is 12-15% for  the same materials), etc. Despite all this, I am sure that this book  deserves attention of materials science students. It was a very good book  when it was published, and it is still good, although it requires a  critical attitude.	2000-06-09
US	52822743	R368Z3Z6C35PCI	0852969333	817748663	Properties of Crystalline Silicon (Emis Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	a unique reference on silicon materials science	This is a unique book in terms of its coverage. It is certainly the most complete and up-to-date reference book on the properties of crystalline silicon. Written by the leading specialists in the field, it combines  tables and diagrams with brief discussions of the sources where the data  were taken from, and the physics behind the data. If there is a book where  one can find answers to most silicon-related questions, than this is this  one. Just look at the table of contents: Melt growth; Epitaxial growth;  structural and mechanical properties; thermal properties; surface  properties and cleaning; structural modelling; band structure; electrical  properties; impurities in silicon; dopants in silicon; defect levels in  silicon; optical properties; photoconductivity and photogenerated carriers;  implantation and irradiation of silicon; gettering; etching; metal-silicon  contacts; silicon on insulator technology. It is not a textbook for  students, through (even if students could afford buying it) since its  concise (database-like) style of writing anticipates some prior level of  knowledge. However, it is a highly recommended book for a collective  posession by a laboratory or by a research team.	2000-06-09
US	52822743	R1CS2EN29AAU4P	0764551124	133659116	Mutual Funds For Dummies	Books	5	172	175	N	N	a book you cannot be disappointed with	&quot;Mutual funds for dummies&quot; is the third book from the &quot;Dummies&quot; series I got my hands on. Reading the first two was a waste of time, and frankly speaking I did not expect much from this one  either. However, this book was a pleasant surprise, which changed my  opinion on the &quot;Dummies&quot; books. The first half of the book is a  comprehensive study of the basics of mutual funds and of the criteria for  evaluating their performance and selecting the best funds. It is so well  written that I asked myself many times while reading what this book had to  do with the &quot;Dummies&quot; series. I got the answer to this question  at the end of the book, where the author offers detailed instructions which  funds can be recommended to start with, how to obtain and fill out an  application form, how to understand statements from the fund, and finally  how to calculate your taxes at the end of the year. This book is indeed a  benchmark which other books from the &quot;Dummies&quot; series should be  compared with: a combination of sufficiently detailed information for those  who want to know what they are doing, with step-by-step instructions and  detailed advice for those who want to get started right away and do not  have the time or the background to study the possible options and make  their own independent picks of the funds. Another impressive aspect of this  book is that the author makes every attempt to convince the readers not  only look into the performance of individual investment vehicles, but also  to take into account their individual financial situation, such as long and  short term financial goals, tax brackets, availability of retirement  accounts, etc. Most other books leave this important aspect completely out  of the scope. Finally, Eric Tyson offers a very realistic approach: he  makes an excellent job convincing the readers that one does not have to  have an MBA to be a successful investor, he explains why mutual funds is  possibly the best option for the most of us, he is very frank with the  readers as what returns one can (and should) expect from an investment, and  finally he suggests the ways how these returns can be reached by offering a  choice of 30-40 decent funds. It is hard to get disappointed with this  book!	2000-05-31
US	52822743	R3JGR3Z8OP9PYB	0201702843	957907915	Adobe(R) Acrobat(R) 4.0 Classroom in a Book (2nd Edition)	Books	4	95	95	N	N	As good as all other &quot;classroom in a book&quot; manuals	Adobe PDF is a very common file format, largely due to the PDF's ability to faithfully maintain the formatting of a document while offering smaller file sizes, searchable text, printability, and integration with the most  popular web browsers. The availability of a PDF viewer, Adobe Acrobat  Reader, for free download has played a decisive role in popularity of this  file standard. I purchased Adobe Acrobat primarily to be able to create PDF  files from Word documents and the like. Although Acrobat comes with a  detailed manual available through the &quot;help&quot; menu, it took me  almost a year before I actually decided to learn what one can do in Acrobat  besides creating PDF files. I decided to start with the &quot;Classroom in  a book&quot; manual since I already had positive experience with this  series. Indeed, I was not disappointed. First, I discovered many advanced  capabilities of Acrobat, which can make PDF format more convenient than any  other format; secondly, it was a pleasure to work with the book. If you  never used the Adobe &quot;Classroom in a book&quot; series before, the  following comments may be useful:<br />a) the book does not contain anything  that is not included in Acrobat Help; In fact, it even contains less  information as it periodically referres the readers to one or another  chapter of the online manual. The only purpose of this book is to help you  to get a &quot;hands-on&quot; practical experience with the program using  the example files from the enclosed CD.<br />b) this book is for the  beginners. Acrobat is generally not as sophisticated as many other Adobe  products, and this book does not even attempt to go into much detail. If  you know nothing about Acrobat, you will find it helpful.<br />c) Unlike many  computer books, this one is very carefully written and edited. The  guidelines are very easy to follow both for Windows and Mac users. In this  sense, it is an excellent and a very accurate tutorial.<br />d) most likelyyou will use this book only once. Later on you would rather refer to  Acrobat Help than to the book since the latter one is more complete.  Getting this book from the library may be an option to consider.	2000-05-24
US	52822743	R3KMHZOAHLO4M4	1568304668	456349887	Adobe Photoshop 5.0: Classroom in a Book (Classroom in a Book Series)	Books	5	63	63	N	N	great hands-on tutorial	Adobe Photoshop &quot;Classroom in a Book&quot; belongs to the series of &quot;hands-on software training workbooks&quot;, published by Adobe. This book is written by people who know Photoshop better than anyone else, and is apparently intended to be an exercise book additional to the Photoshop  manual. Indeed, it even uses some of the images which appear in the  Photoshop manual. However, it can as well be used as an independent  tutorial. The book is amazingly well written. Each chapter briefly explains  the function of the tools discussed below, and then offers a practical  lesson using images from the enclosed CD.  The language of the book is very   concise and easy to understand, which makes it  suitable for people with  every background, from middle-school students to professionals. The balance  between the complexity of the tasks and the amount of information to learn  is  very well maintained. Description of the steps to follow is very  accurate. I found only few minor mistakes in the text, which did not cause  any significant misunderstandings. <br />Despite all these advantages, two  issues should be emphasized to avoid disappointment. First, this book does  not contain much more than can be found in the Photoshop Manual or online  help. Therefore, this book can be recommended primarily  for the beginners,  maybe for some people on the intermediate level, who are learning the basic  techniques of Photoshop. It does not go into details of how photoshop can  be used to make those amazing tricks with photographs which can be done by  photoshop experts. Secondly, this book IS a workbook, a practical tutorial,  but not more than that. This means that you read it from the beginning to  the end, do the tutorials, hopefully learn a lot, but most likely will  never use this book again. This book is not a good reference, and it makes  little sense to repeat the lessons more than once or twice. Therefore this  book  frequently appears on Amazon auctions, sold by people  who used it and do not need it anymore. But it is still a great book!	2000-04-29
US	52822743	R2MD2PPRFJETBQ	3540642137	579083066	Metal Impurities in Silicon-Device Fabrication (Springer Series in Materials Science)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	desktop reference on transition metals in silicon	The book of K.Graff, published in 1995, has become a desktop reference on transition metals in silicon for students, scientists and engineers. On about 215 pages the author covers properties of the main metal impurities in silicon, such as Fe, Ni, Cu, Mo, Pd, Pt, Au, Sc, Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Co, Zn,  Rh, Ag, and Ta, as well as detection methods and basics of gettering of  metals. Appendix contains tables of known energy levels associated with  metals. The book written in the database style and is therefore very easy  to read and use. To the best of my knowledge, this is the only recently  published book which contains data on all major metal impurities in  silicon, and I would recommend it to everyone who is interested in this  area of materials science. A few minor drawbacks, which do not affect my  rating of the book but are still worth mentioning are that some progress  that has been made in understanding of metals, particularly Cu, Fe, and Mo  in the last 5 years, is not reflected in this book. Additionally, the  detection methods and gettering section are briefer than I think they  should be. The final comment is that this book is written primarily from  the engineering point of view. The readers interested in fundamental  physics of impurities in silicon, their theoretical description, and their  reactions should refer to general textbooks.	2000-04-27
US	52822743	RRUAZ6RE4UAWK	0028630432	580185619	The Unofficial Guide to Las Vegas 2000	Books	5	31	32	N	N	a very useful book	When I was planning my trip to Las Vegas, I went to the largerst local book store and looked through all Las Vegas tourist guides which they had. I found this book by far the best, and my opinion did not change after the  trip. Instead of providing a directory of hotels, restaurants, and  attractions as it is done in most travel guides, the authors write about  their own experience of staying at hotels, going to shows, eating at cafes,  etc. This makes the book very practical. I used the recommendations and  evaluations of the book to make a detailed plan of my Las Vegas trip, and I  enjoyed every minute of that stay. I am sure that I would get lost in the  miriads of attractions that Las Vegas has to offer without this guide. I  agree with one of the reviews posted on Amazon earlier that a slightly more  critical attitude of the authors would not hurt, and can add to it that I  would make the index at the end of the book more detailed than it is now to  make search for a specific information easier. Nonetherless, its a great  book,which is worth every penny of its price.	2000-04-07
US	52822743	R1GMZ6ACTP95EZ	0028630424	425831628	Unofficial Guide to Disneyland 2000	Books	5	33	34	N	N	a book on strategy of visiting disneyland	Disneyland is a relatively small park, and it is quite possible to experience everything within a day or two and enjoy it - unless you have to stand in long lines. Unfortunately, the latter happens most of the time.  The strategy how to avoid long waiting in lines and to make the most of  your visit to Disneyland is the most valuable part of this book.   Description of the rides is interesting, but you most likely do not need it  since once you came to Disneyland, you will not leave until you experienced  all of them. Description of places to eat in the park is also not that  important because food is not the purpose of your coming to Disneyland. A  hotel can be booked on the web or through a travel agent, you only sleep  there anyway. The only thing you really need is to be smarter than the  crowd, and this is what you will get from the book in full. I bought this  book and I learned from it when I whould go there, how long I will need to  see everything, and where to go to first thing in the morning, and where to  in the afternoon. This book saved me and my family much more time and money  than I paid for it, and made our trips there so much more enjoyable than  the could have been without the &quot;Unofficial guide&quot;.	2000-04-07
US	52822743	R35G35W2PMI557	030645324X	406982011	Transmission Electron Microscopy: A Textbook for Materials Science (4-Vol Set)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	An outsatnding textbook!	I find this book probably the best textbook in materials science I ever read. Not only the authors are experts in the field of microscopy, but they also succeeded in extremely difficult task to present the complicated  science of electron microscopy in a simple (but not oversimplified!)  language. The book covers all major aspects of transmission electron  microscopy, and contains excellent illustrations. This book is certainly a  priceless asset for students. It is recommended as one of the  best books at the beginning and intermediate level. If you are looking for  a book to learn TEM, get this one, you will never regret!	2000-03-10
US	52822743	RMZVDZDBS88Y0	0764551620	471058405	Investing For Dummies	Books	3	244	264	N	N	a little about everything	I found this book useful because of its amazingly wide coverage of investment strategies (stocks, bonds, T-bills, mutual funds, bank accounts, retirement accounts, real estate, private companies...). It is also quite  well written, compared to the other books from the &quot;dummies&quot;  series. Nonetheless, the reading of this book did not give me all that I  expected. The amount of information on each particular method of investing  is not sufficient to use this book as the primary and the only reference,  and the author himself occasionally recommends the readers some other books  on the subject. On the other hand, the book is too detailed to be a basic  simple introduction for people who have no clue what the investing is.  While I certainly learned a few things from this book, I do not feel that  this book was helpful enough to advance my knowledge far from its starting  point. My advice: if you know what sort of investing you prefer, borrow  this book from the local library to read a couple of chapters which you  need, but buy a more focused and detailed book.	2000-03-10
US	52822743	R2EE261CORPWIA	0471572349	868076763	Electron Paramagnetic Resonance: Elementary Theory and Practical Applications	Books	3	8	9	N	Y	comprehensive, but poorly written	Electron paramagnetic resonance is a fairly complicated experimental technique, and the task of writing a textbook on this method is extremely  challenging. This particular book is written by experienced scientists and covers all major modifications of EPR, as well as extensive bibliography. However, the presentation of the material could be much, much better. I found it very hard to follow the authors mostly because the systematics in presentation, from full explanation of simple  things to more complicated ones, is lacking almost completely. Sometimes I  even had a strange feeling that subsections of the book were written  independently and were just put next to each other in the final manuscript,  so different is their writing style, and so weakly they are related to each  other. Unfortunately, there are not so many books on EPR published recently which are available at bookstores, so the readers do not have a lot of choice...	2000-01-28
US	52822743	R3COX0C23VH8JZ	0764504738	33042222	Tcp/Ip for Dummies	Books	1	32	38	N	N	a book for EXTREME dummies	The idea of the series &quot;for dummies&quot; is to present complicated concepts in a simple way, so that people without any background in that particular area of knowledge could easily follow and understand. This is  not an easy task, and many authors use analogies from the everyday life to  explain complicated technical issues. In this book, the usage of analogies  exceeds all reasonable and necessary proportions, and some of these  analogies are tasteless and excessive,  from my point of view. I really  wonder what level of &quot;dumminess&quot; did the authors anticipated in  their readers to choose such a level of explanations.  Furthermore, the  subdivision of the text into 2-3 subsection per page with weird titles like  &quot;Let network be Santa, and it just might work&quot;, along with the  above mentioned examples (which are pretty much in the style of the  subtutle, quoted above) distract from the topic of the book rather than  help. To be fair, I should admit that the book does contain all the basics  of the TCP/IP networking, and could be a good starting book, if it were  better written. However, if it is NOT your first book on networking, it  will not teach you a lot, and it is certainly not deep enough to be used as  a reference.	1999-12-21
US	52822743	R16AWRJPT7278S	0124558356	211807005	TCP/IP Clearly Explained, Second Edition	Books	3	9	10	N	N	a book on the philosophy of TCP/IP	I hard hard times rating this book on the scale from 1 to 5. This book is rather unusual: it is not as much about the practical implementation of TCP/IP, but rather about its philosophy. Using simple block-diagrams, where  individual networks are represented by &quot;clouds&quot;, computers shown  as icons, and connections between them shown as straight lines, the book  discusses the principles which make very complicated networks of millions  of computers function flawlessly and enable them to find the way to each  other within milliseconds. The book is good to get some background on  TCP/IP,  but it is not very helful as a reference for an end user to solve  practical network problems. If you sit in front of your computer, and try  to configure your network properly, then you have a network settings window  in front of you and try to figure out what each DNS or WINS resolution  entry means, and whether your current settings are right or wrong. This  book tells you a lot about network in general, but unfortunately it is too  academic to get into any practical details, such as local network  troubleshooting, or details of the network configuration of Windows.  Summarizing, I would say it is a fairly good book, but it covers a specific  aspect of the TCP/IP networking, which not everyone may need.	1999-12-13
US	52822743	RF0K0QQI3FH6L	0782125204	936336719	Mastering Coreldraw 9	Books	3	11	11	N	N	witty, but not as focused as it could be	This book is indeed witty, you will not get bored when reading it. Unfortunately, the jokes use half of the book, leaving not too much space for the CorelDraw itself. They explain what the function of each button is,  and show how to draw rectangles and fill them with fancy colors. However,  seldom do the authors go beyond these trivial things. It was my first book  on CorelDraw, and I feel that this book was not enough to learn to use  Draw. Another frustrating thing is that the tutorial files, which were  supposed to pe posted on the web, are not there yet, although the book came  in July 99, and I am writing this review in November. So be prepared to  skip some chapters since you do not have the files to work with.	1999-11-15
US	52822743	RBTV7063HUUG6	0240515196	926645885	Adobe Photoshop 5.0 for Photographers	Books	3	25	25	N	N	can be improved in the next edition	I think it is a very useful source of information how to use Photoshop to improve quality of scanned photographs or digital images. Unfortunately,  the book has several significant drawbacks, which hopefully will be  improved in the next edition. First of all, the enclosed CD-ROM does not  contain the images presented in the book, so there is no simple way to get  &quot;hands-on&quot; experience with the techniques discussed in the book.  The description of the steps suggested to solve each particular problem is  sometimes way too short to follow, and is difficult to memorize because you  cannot reproduce the suggested steps on your computer since you do not get  the tutorial files. The first half of the book, a short description of  Photoshop 5 for the users of the previous versions of photoshop, is rather  useless, from my point of view: I think that those who have recently  upgraded to Photoshop 5 already know how to use the new features, while  those who never worked with Photoshop will not understand much from that  short description. Putting this all in one sentence, this book contains  great material, but the presentation of it could be much better.	1999-11-01
US	52822743	R6KZIFUQMDVI9	1564964310	186849046	Plug-In Smart: How to Choose and Use Photoshop-Compatible Plug-Ins (Smart Design)	Books	1	8	8	N	N	colorful, but fairly useless	The content of this book is not up to the quality of paper it is printed on or to the number of colorful pictures. The book is essentially a  collection of advertisement of vendors offering photoshop-compatible  plugins, which sponsored this book. The author neither attempts to compare  the third-party plug-ins with those included into the Photoshop package,  nor discusses the advantages and limitations of each plug-in. The enclosed  CD containes primarily demo (limited functionality) versions of some  plug-ins and programs, but no practical lessons, as most books with CD-ROMs  do. If you are looking for an unusual effect which cannot be achieved by  using the standard Photoshop filters, this book may help you to find a  place where to buy what you need. Generally, you get much less than you  would expect to get for this money.	1999-10-27
US	52822743	R2XL6KHYQESSZO	1562058843	679395690	Inside Adobe Photoshop 5	Books	3	10	11	N	N	a good book to get an idea what can be done in photoshop	This book is a good choice as the first book to start learning Photoshop. The author does not waste time explaining layers, paths, and menus.  Instead, it guides you through the sequence of increasingly  complicated  tasks by telling you which buttons to press to achieve the desirable  effect. Initially I was very excited with the book since I had a wonderful  feeling that I could do some image editing already after an hour or so  after I started working with Photoshop. However, I was somewhat  disappointed when after 500 pages or so I realized that many of the tools  which I see on the screen were never mentioned in the book, and that I  still do not always understand what is the meaning of the steps which I am  doing, and what is the function of the buttons I am pressing (since the  author never cared to explain). There are also some missing files on the  enclosed CD, and some mistakes in the text. Hence, it is a good book to  start with (if you never worked with the program before), but not an  ultimate guide to Photoshop.	1999-09-10
US	52822743	R2VGMKBN994OXB	1883403073	425120806	Nikon Lenses (Magic Lantern Guides)	Books	3	5	7	N	Y	a photographer guide - but not a shopping guide!	This is a book for a serious amateur, who feels that he needs to have several different lenses in his posession, and wants to understand which of the Nikon lenses is best suited for his purposes. However, this book is  probably not for you if you are shopping just for a single lens for your  new camera. This book is not a buyers guide. It discusses different lenses  from the point of view of what kind of shots they are best suited for. The  price of the lenses is not considered at all, and the technical data are  limited to the length, width, and weight of the lens. You will not find any  evaluations of sharpness of pictures taken with different lenses using  different apertures. The book also does not include the recently appeared  24-120 Zoom lens, or the cheapest Nikon lens 35-80, which comes with a  standard set. This is because these lenses appeared after the book was  published.  I bought this book when I was shopping for a new camera, and  ultimately returned it. I hoped that the book will help me to understand  which of the lenses from the zoom range I was interested in, has the best  value for the money in the terms of sharpness, color rendering, mechanical  stability. Unfortunately, these (rather technical) issues are not discussed  at all.	1999-03-01
US	52822743	R3VCCN9A1VHT0H	048665088X	613798607	Digital Filters (Dover Civil and Mechanical Engineering)	Books	5	30	30	N	Y	a great introductory course in digital filters	This book introduces major concepts of digital filters. The author starts with the basics (why should we care about digital filters) and ends up with quite complicated things such as recursive filters. This is an excellent  book on introductory/intermediate level. In a short, concise form it  explains everything what an average engineer/scientist/student who is not  involved into professional development of digital filters needs to know  about them. What I liked  most about this book is that the presentation of  the material is very self-consistent. R.W.Hamming starts with the simplest  things and proceeds to the next section only when everything what the  reader will need in the following is explained. I think, its an excellent  buy, especially for this price.	1998-10-30
