US	52825125	R8E4C7GUB0YMQ	0826215688	410584022	The Vanishing Newspaper: Saving Journalism in the Information Age	Books	5	6	9	N	Y	Right book at the right time	This book is a unique and excellent work attempting to statistically discover relationships between newspaper characteristics, newspaper circulations (and changes thereto), and communities. The newspaper industry was behind other U.S. companies that directly serve consumers for decades in conducting rigorous research. Now, with scholars like Phil Meyer and organizations such as the Newspaper Management Center at Northwestern U., the newspaper industry might finally find out what it needs to know to survive--as long as it is not already too late. <br />As for the other reviewer's charge that Phil wants papers to become more liberal, the reviewer has had to stretch to find what he found and then takes it out of context. The entire claim that newspapers are liberally biased is nonsense; in 23 out of 25 presidential elections in the 20th century, the majority of U.S. newspapers endorsed the Republican candidate for president. That is a fact. Check it yourself. Daily news coverage is heavily biased toward the status quo, whatever it might be, as reporters interview governors, senators, CEOs, etc.; they rarely interview union presidents and almost never interview true leftists, while constantly interviewing extreme right-wingers. The \\"liberal bias\\" charge is manufactured by the right-wing to try to make much of U.S. news media--which overwhelmingly is conventional, traditional, slowly changing--as reactionary and regressive as those making the charge.	2005-07-11
US	52825125	R1Y6RDJBZRVN7X	0820457213	995839378	Anti-Intellectualism in American Media: Magazines & Higher Education	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	First review in a scholarly journal	Review by David Abrahamson and Nathan Eddy of Northwestern University, published in the Spring 2004 issue of American Journalism-- A Journal of Media History:<br />The concept of American anti-intellectualism is neither trivial nor new. Partly founded on fears of an elitist society and its undue influence on politics, the United States has harbored a distinctly anti-intellectual sentiment since its creation. Drawing heavily on the work of historian Richard Hofstadter and sociologist Daniel Rigney, particularly in the realm of definitions, Claussen breaks new ground by examining the ways that popular magazines have fosted an anti-intellectual view of higher education.<BR>Grounding the work in a comprehensive overview of both the classical and contemporary literature from Kant to Habermas to Bloom, Claussen provides a commendable history of both anti-intellectualism and the mass media's role in disseminating that sentiment. Noting quite correctly that most studies that address the history either of ideas or of the mass media seldom cross-reference each other, Claussen devotes much of the book to exploring the nature of five well-chosen and comfortably representative popular magazines--Life, Ladies' Home Journal, Time, Reader's Digest, and Nation's Business--and articles they published concerning college education and university life.<BR>The findings of this comparative study form the important core of the book. However much the American public embraces a certain anti-intellectual attitude, as documented here, the scope of this embrace is somewhat surprising. Media coverage of higher education is narrow, with an almost-exclusive focus on its social and long-term financial advantages. Moreover, the media lack interest in covering the less prestigious colleges.<BR>Offering evidence from magazines articles published between 1944 and 1996, Claussen sheds light on how the popular print media regard college students and their place in American society. Student motivation isportrayed as either economic or social, rarely intellectual. The goal is to obtain (a) competitive advantages in the job market and/or (b) social benefits such as fraternity/sorority life or marriage prospects. This coverage borders on the offensive, with many articles clearly dismissing college students' intellectual, cultural, and political aspirations (e.g. political activisim) as childish.<BR>Of particular note is the successful way that Claussen structures his approach to a broad and quite complex topic. Divided into seven chapters, which are further divided by sub-topics, the book also covers such significant developments as the decline in religious anti-intellectualism after World War II, the devaluation of &quot;book learning,&quot; and the problems inherent in the democratization of higher education. Though perhaps a disputatious one, the treatment of this last topic clearly adds a critical insight to the book's argument. Claussen's evidence suggests that the democratization of education served as one of the leading sources of anti-intellectualism in our society. Furthermore, the work succeeds in illuminating the connection between the proliferation of the mass media--which almost by definition are targeted at wider, less elitist audiences--and the democratization of higher education.<BR>Most significantly, Claussen is able to use his findings, along with a useful historical perspective on anti-intellectualism, to support his claim that much of the power to affect society for the better rests with two contemporary institutions: the media and higher education. But if the media coverage of the academy focuses solely on its career-enhancing or socialization opportunities (and, it must be added, if universities are increasingly prone to promote themselves primarily as providers of just those advantages), then the resulting vicious cycle will, sadly, do nothing to diminish the long-standing American aversion to the less practical but perhaps more noble pursuitsof the life of the mind.	2004-07-03
US	52825125	R1S4GU3N1U8PK7	027595661X	914758336	Post-Intellectualism and the Decline of Democracy: The Failure of Reason and Responsibility in the Twentieth Century	Books	1	7	13	N	N	Yes, a big disappointment	This book proposes that \\"Intellectualism\\" was the cause and effect of the \\"Enlightenment,\\" but that it has been replaced by \\"post-intellectualism.\\" Wood defines intellectualism as consisting of a search for knowledge, critical thinking, social criticism, and broad liberal arts, all of which he said have been replaced by ignorance, \\"dumbth\\" (a decline in analytic thinking), establishmentism (reluc-tance to change the status quo), and specialization, respectively. Wood, who refers to Richard Hofstadter (author of the Pulitzer Prize-winning Anti-intellectualism in American Life) only once, believes that \\"post-intellectualism\\" started with the dilution of universal education in the 1870s (that at a time when only about 2 percent of the population had a high school diploma!), and continued with the 1890s labor movement, the burgeoning popularity of movies and television (in fact, a major reason for Wood's \\"post-intellectualism\\" was the replacement of the \\"Written Word\\" by the \\"Electric Media\\"), and the growing role of government during the twentieth century.<BR>Wood's book is not a worthy successor to Hofstadter. Although he can point to hundreds of phenomena that he claims are post-intellectual, or at least along the trajectory from intellectualism to post-intellectualism, Wood fails to provide a convincing body of evidence for most of his specific charges. Against mass media, he makes a laundry list of such plausible but unproven accusations: artistic exploitation; corruption by commercial support and special interests; being wracked by mergers; a lack of substantive content; the construction of [unrealistic] \\"reality\\"; damage to democracy; the promotion of escapism; the propping up of elites; invasions of privacy; an overemphasis on, or promotion of, violence; and being partially responsible for copycat crimes, suicides, aggressive behavior, desensitization, \\"mean world syndrome,\\" and \\"narcotizing dysfunction.\\") I don't doubt that these are effects of mass media, at least among some people, some of the time, but Wood writes as if they all have been proven beyond a shadow of a doubt, and he provides anecdotal evidence, if that, about such effects.<BR>Most importantly, however, his cause-effect relationship between an \\"intellectual\\" world and a \\"post-intellectual\\" world is ultimately not clearly supported, nor is the unavoidable implication that the United States was once an \\"intellectual\\" country.	2003-08-20
US	52825125	R23JJWI6DO3PUT	0802084257	150125062	Media Violence and its Effect on Aggression: Assessing the Scientific Evidence	Books	5	8	17	N	Y	Time for someone to talk sense in the face of hysteria	Media violence research is badly flawed in many respects. First, every scientist and social scientist who I've ever heard of who studies media violence is opposed to it, so the whole research agenda is biased from square one. Find me a scientist or social scientist who studies it because he/she is indifferent about it or likes media violence. Second, there is a logic problem: I, like everyone else I know, have seen thousands of murders in movies and on television, and yet I have never seriously contemplated murdering anyone. Among those people who have considered it, even only a fraction of them actually commit murder. So the role of mass media in murder, for example, must be extremely small to non-existent. Theories that suggest that we might or will do what we see in the media, such as cultivation theory, agenda-setting theory, social learning theory, socialization theory, etc., utterly fail to explain why so few of us are murderers; such research must admit that mass media play an extremely small to non-existent role in real-world violence. Third, even if media violence is partially responsible for some people being violent occasionally, this flimsy connection is not enough under the First Amendment, or based on common sense, to regulate or ban media violence. If the public wants to save lives, it could do so much more quickly and effectively by banning tobacco, alcohol, automobiles, guns, fast food and junk food. In other words, media violence would be way down the list of items or activities in American life that cause widespread harm and even death. Fourth, all of this research on media violence, even if it proves something, won't make any tangible difference. As a federal appeals court judge showed in an important law review article a few years ago, it's much easier under the First Amendment to regulate media sex in the United States than media violence. The V-chip may be mandatory in TV sets, but most of the other ratings systems and labeling for TV, movies,CDs, etc., have been voluntary by the media industry and could be upheld in court only with the claim (often made, rarely supported) that they protect children. We're not willing under the law to regulate almost anything that adults might see or hear (and I'm not suggesting that we should), as if magically at 18 Americans aren't effected by anything in the media anymore. Moreover, the FCC has been in a deregulatory mood for 20 years regarding TV, then cable, and now the Internet. The FCC has no authority over newspapers, magazines, books, movie theatres or movie rentals. Media and entertainment companies can be held liable for the actions of customers in only very rare cases (such as when a company puts out a book on how to be a hit man, and then someone follows the advice.) In short, regulating or banning movie or TV violence is not going to increase, probably will decrease further, and will become tougher to justify under the First Amendment in any case. Fifth, this leaves those who oppose media violence with two options: appealing to media companies to stop making violent content (and why would they do that, since their job is to make money for stockholders?), or not buy violent media content and try to persuade others not to do the same. Some social scientists may be deluded into thinking that that's what they're already doing: producing research that is negative about media violence and will convince average Americans not to consume media violence anymore. The only problem with this is that the average American doesn't read scholarly journals that publish articles on media violence, and isn't likely to--mostly because average Americans don't read scholarly journals at all, and partially because Americans are anti-intellectual: most of them wouldn't read a well-written scholarly journal article if it fell in their lap. Bottom line: with more than 3,000 studies in the last 50 years on media violence, this whole research stream has gone nowhere fast, and the lastthing we need is another study on it. But certain scientists and social scientists have their own agenda, not the least of which is that research on media violence has turned into something of a cottage industry through federal grant money.	2003-07-04
US	52825125	R3QAQRGNKLVM4D	0195099451	166123730	War and Press Freedom: The Problem of Prerogative Power	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Superb	I first read this book when it was entered into a media history book competition for which I was a judge, before Sept. 11 and Afghanistan and Iraq. I was extremely impressed then. More recently, I have assigned my media history students (undergraduate and graduate students) to read it, and this fall, I am requiring graduate students in media law to read it. I'm not using this book so much because I'm too lazy to find or read another one; it's really that good. Nearly every sentence forces one to think about democracy, law, journalism, the nature of government, the role of the military, and the information needs of average citizens. It's not only for professors and journalism, history or law students. One of the best books I've ever read--no kidding.	2003-06-27
US	52825125	RW0P2JETQLQQ8	0742515583	506668422	Sex, Religion, Media	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Second review	A \\"valuable contribution to the literature....\\"<BR>\\"He [Claussen] concludes with a thoughtful essay\\"<BR>\\"This book does an admirable job of covering the subject and covering it well. Both casual readers and scholars who specialize in religion and the media will find something of interest. The book is also appropriate for use in upper-level undergraduate and graduate courses on media and society and religion and popular culture. Some chapters could also themselves to use in media history, film studies, rhetoric, media effects, and communication research courses.\\"<BR>\\"There are...unexpected gems. These include Lisa R. Grunberger's 'Bernarr Macfadden's \\"Physical Culture,\\"' Anton Karl Kozlovic's 'The Whore of Babylon, Suggestibility, and the Art of Sexless Sex in Cecil B. DeMille's Samson and Delilah,' and Shelly Arsneault's 'Morality Politics Associated with the Abstinence-Only Sex Education Sought as a Remedy to Welfare Dependency.\\"<BR>\\"Particularly noteworthy, from a theoretical perspective, are Robert Mendenhall's use of Reinhold Niebuhr's theory of Christ and culture in his study of Donald Wildmon's organization and its practices, Natalie Jo Brackett-Vineyard's used of the rhetorical theory of Anthony Weston in her study of media coverage of Wildmon, and Philip J. Bakelaar's used of William Gamson's 'issue culture' perspective to examine conservative and liberal rhetorical strategies in the debate over homosexuality are particularly noteworthy.\\"<br />\\"Perhaps the trwo most valuable studies in the collection are Brian K. Simmons' 'Media Cultivation and Perceptions of Sexual Morality in Church of Christ Adolescents,' which is based on the author's analysis of survey data from 814 United Church of Christ teens, and Randal A. Wright and Mark D. Ogletree's 'Family, Peers, Religiosity, Electronic Media and the Risk of Adolescent Sexual Activity,' based on survey data from 467 Texas high school students.\\"<BR>--Judith M. Buddenbaum, Colorado State University; co-editor, Journal of Media and Religion	2003-03-11
US	52825125	R32SD70O5K0D6I	078726511X	228202721	Men, Media & Masculinity	Books	1	0	2	N	N	Incredibly Weak	When I received the first edition of this book in the mail, I already had read Men, Masculinity and Media, edited by Steve Craig (Sage Publications) and was expecting more of the same. Imagine my surprise when this book arrived; it was written by a community college professor at about a high school level of language and sophistication. The only useful OR interesting parts were the verbatim reactions of typical women to various \\"sexy\\" magazine ads featuring men. The rest of the book was pretty much useless. It is absolutely astonishing that the publisher has enough courage to release a new edition.	2002-09-28
US	52825125	R1A0LEDNY3BOVK	0394570340	790189374	Far From Home: Life and Loss in Two American Towns	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Simply excellent	I don't remember how I heard about this book, but I remember reading it--several years ago soon after the paperback edition was published. It is a model of how to write about changes and crises in a particular place.  I am a book author and editor, journalism professor, newsletter editor, and former newspaper editor and publisher, who usually does not read books like this one.  The best and only connection I have to this book is that I am interested in historic preservation of &quot;main streets.&quot; Yet I read this book carefully and thoroughly, enjoying nearly all of it.  The section on Cairo, Illinois was better than the section on Connecticut, but that's no real complaint. Highly recommended.	2002-09-09
US	52825125	R2UM7FG1I8GTY9	0023377313	83419618	Strategic Newspaper Management	Books	3	4	4	N	Y	Makes one think all newspapers are large	This book is fairly solid overall, although it is now out of date in many parts and there are a few bloopers (such as the defunct Miami News being referred to as the very much ongoing Miami Herald on p. 57).<br />This book's major problem, and it is gigantic, is that almost all of the examples used in the book are from the largest 100 daily newspapers in the United States (and that's being generous, the top 50 would probably cover it). Such major metro daily newspapers account for only about 8% of the U.S. daily newspaper industry, and less than 1% of the entire U.S. newspaper industry. The author may think he has somehow covered the entire general circulation newspaper industry by including Chapter 14, called \\"The 'New' Weekly Newspaper,\\" but it also is not about the 92% of daily newspapers that are not major metro dailies. And Ch. 14 is strange on its own: it purports to take an individual journalist who wants to own his/her own newspaper through the process of buying a weekly newspaper for $4.5 million. First, almost no weekly newspapers on the market cost that much, certainly not in 1996 when this book was published. Second, almost no individuals or couples looking to buy their own weekly newspapers can afford to buy one that costs $4.5 million. Third, Fink uses a multiple of discounted gross sales as the basis for the purchase price, even though the newspaper industry had largely switched to multiples of cash flow before over several years before this book was published.<br />As another reviewer has pointed out, this book definitely is intended more for the journalism student than for the newspaper manager already in the industry. So, again, why does Fink focus on major metro dailies and $4.5 million acquisitions? The average journalism school graduate gets his/her first job or two, and first management position or two, at weekly newspapers or small-to-medium-sized dailies, and is a long way from a $4.5 million business venture.	2002-06-23
US	52825125	R2M39R5ZQFA4T4	0813826063	350534189	Writing Opinion for Impact	Books	5	6	16	N	N	Excellent in almost every respect	I've read this book for a college course, and overall it is excellent.<br />The only strange thing about this book is that it is written in a completely different style than one of Conrad Fink's earlier books, &quot;Strategic Newspaper Management.&quot; This one, &quot;Writing Opinion for Impact,&quot; is quite informal, even chatty, as compared with the formal, almost traditional, style of his newspaper management book. They are so dramatically different, it's as if they weren't even written by the same person.	2002-06-23
US	52825125	R3RA8IQRSUJIT2	0802117163	81595846	The Sexual Life of Catherine M.	Books	2	12	20	N	Y	Rather dull, all things considered	This book can keep one's interest for about the first 100 pages, but that's about it. After that, you will have become thoroughly maddened by her writing style.  You will find out by that point that she's not going to tell you very much about herself other than she likes/liked sex a lot, and as one other reviewer wrote, the letters in American men's magazines are better. As for the reviewer in Switzerland who thinks it's the best piece of erotica he/she has ever read, Switzerland must not have much.	2002-06-22
US	52825125	R2SOKQ95R8R236	0742515575	506668422	Sex, Religion, Media	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	First reviews	\\"A rich collection that does much to lay out the range of work in the field. Claussen demonstrates a keen sense for the issues in this collection that includes a broad cross-section of method, theory, and writing style . Well structured, engaging, entertaining, and thought provoking. It would serve [as] a substantive reader on the topic for an academic audience or as a text for senior/graduate level students in an appropriate course.\\"- Journalism & Mass Communication Quarterly<br />\\"A superb integration. [This] book is an unsurpassed reference source for sociology of religion. I will begin using it immediately in religious studies classes and in religion in media classes.\\"-Allen Podet, University of Potsdam<br />THIS BOOK HAS BEEN AVAILABLE IN PAPERBACK SINCE NOVEMBER 2002	2002-06-08
US	52825125	RTC17963NUL8M	0816640068	433043544	Harmful To Minors: The Perils Of Protecting Children From Sex	Books	5	58	88	N	Y	Reaction to this book is proving its point	This long overdue book simply says what a lot of intelligent, rational and well-educated people (and some who don't fit that description) have been thinking for a long time--but simply have been unable to unwilling to say so.  Let's start putting an end to a lot of the ignorant hysteria.<br />Readers of Harmful to Minors also probably will find helpful and interesting two other very recent books: Not in Front of the Children: \\"Indecency,\\" Censorship, and the Innocence of Youth, by Marjorie Heins, and parts of Sex, Religion, Media, edited by Dane S. Claussen.	2002-04-14
US	52825125	R2ANUSW91251MY	079235608X	974860470	Newspapers: A Lost Cause?: Strategic Management of Newspaper Firms in the United States and The Netherlands	Books	1	2	2	N	Y	Weird concept	This book claims to analyze the newspaper industry in the Netherlands and in the United States, and then compare and contrast them.  I know very little about the newspaper industry in Europe, but I do know enough to know that the newspaper industry in the Netherlands and the newspaper industry in the United States have almost nothing in common with each other besides the same general product.<BR>I know a lot about the newspaper industry in the United States, and despite the book's title and its pretensions, the book's focus on economic and technological issues tells only half the story.  The author seems rather clueless about the relatively poor quality of most newspaper staffs--especially when compared to the often brilliant people running computer hardware and software companies, major consumer magazines, and so on.  Does the author even know that the average daily newspaper in the United States has a circulation of only about 12,000?  Does the author know about the booming industries of weekly community newspapers, alternative newsweeklies, etc.?  Finally, the author seems to have taken everything that executives of major newspaper chains and individual newspapers at face value (he both assumes that they know what they are talking about and that they are being open and honest with him), despite the fact that if more of them knew what they were doing, the author wouldn't be asking if newspapers are a &quot;lost cause.&quot;	2002-02-26
US	52825125	R20XFPG83VWEWQ	0313307881	195026637	Sexual Rhetoric: Media Perspectives on Sexuality, Gender, and Identity (Contributions to the Study of Mass Media & Communications)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Great contents, bad editing	This book has brought together essays written by numerous scholars who are widely known as excellent scholars and/or are the leading experts on their subjects, including Linda K. Fuller, Paul Martin Lester, Kathy B. McKee, Debra Merskin, Carol Pardun and Joseph W. Slade--in addition to mostly competent lesser lights. It's only a pity that the book's editing is so uneven in every way--grammar, spelling, typos, word choice, style, punctuation, organization and flow, etc., etc.--especially since Carstarphen supposedly is a former magazine editor.	2002-02-04
US	52825125	RCAUNXFSQVFL2	0231080484	344677227	When MBAs Rule the Newsroom: How the Marketers and Managers Are Reshaping Today's Media	Books	1	7	8	N	N	Grossly overrated	Titles tell you a lot, often without meaning to. The title of this book suggests that Underwood has found all kinds of journalists who have earned MBAs getting promoted into top  editors' jobs, MBA-bearing publishers barking orders in meetings with editors, and so on. Not so. Hardly an editor who holds an MBA can be found in the entire book (Mike Fancher at the Seattle Times is mentioned repeatedly, but after that, how many others were there in 1993 when this book was published or even now?). In fact, what becomes painfully obvious is how willing how many editors who don't have MBAs are to play corporate executive because of what it does for their pocketbooks and their egos--and how little faith editors have in themselves and their staffs to produce high quality journalism that the public wants and needs.<br />Second, the fact is that almost everything in this book was already public knowledge (found in publications such as American Journalism Review, Columbia Journalism Review, Quill, Editor &amp; Publisher, Advertising Age, and so on). No fresh research, no fresh ideas, no fresh conclusions, and a title that is terribly misleading about the book's contents.	2001-12-11
US	52825125	R3KSOSJ1F84X3D	0842027610	509112551	In the News: American Journalists View their Craft	Books	1	0	0	N	N	Half a job	Many historically important journalists who have published and/or spoken publicly about &quot;their craft&quot; are inexplicably omitted from this book--despite introductory remarks that make it sound as if Knudson had drafted most of his friends and collegues to help him compile the book.	2001-11-28
US	52825125	RMUFIMYED7PA6	0226139379	315612893	Homosexuality and Psychoanalysis	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Courageous, fascinating, and overdue	Many of us have heard the story of Freud writing the mother and telling her, in essence, that there was nothing wrong with her son being homosexual. The story is so unambiguous that we also have wondered what went wrong--with psychology, psychiatry and psychoanalysis--that resulted in homosexuality being directly and indirectly stigmatized for so long by professionals whose fields supposedly were largely influenced by Freud, other schools of psychological theory and thought notwithstanding. At the same time, many of us have concluded that perhaps that question didn't matter so much after the APA removed homosexuality from its list of illnesses nearly 30 years ago and the professional practice of psychoanalysis continued its long-term decline both in absolute terms and relative to other theories and methods.<br />Now Tim Dean, Christopher Lane and their book's contributors--with findings and interpretations drawn from diverse quarters--bring together gay/lesbian studies and queer theory with psychoanalysis, seriously engaging Foucault; making Lacan, Laplanche and others previously omitted from these interchanges relevant to the issue of psychoanalysis; emphasizing the need to integrate lesbians into debates that were for a long-time primarily about (and often by) gay men; and keeping it all timely and relevant in light of queer theory, AIDS, and other recent developments.<br />Students of gay/lesbian studies (including GLBT history), queer theory, and/or psychoanalysis obviously will profit greatly from this book. Those with a working knowledge of psychoanalysis will find this book easiest to digest while continuously stimulating; those without that working knowledge will find some parts tougher sledding than others but surely worth the effort. There's something truly thought-provoking just about every time you turn the page. It's surprising that no one had written and/or edited a book like this one before and I'd bet that Dean and Lane put years of thought and planning into this one. We should all be glad they did.	2001-11-14
US	52825125	R3JJKCKZ1DKBDP	0374175454	404222025	Not in Front of the Children: Indecency, Censorship, and the Innocence of Youth	Books	5	28	31	N	Y	A far overdue response to the hysteria	Bravo to this book. It's time that someone injected facts and logic into debates that primarily have been based on myths, fears, guesses, hopes, assumptions, and hysteria.<br />A previous reviewer wants to know why we don't have more data on how, say, pornography affects teenagers. One reason is that a controlled experiment would be nearly impossible: finding teenagers who haven't been exposed to any pornography is difficult enough, but for a scientist or social scientist to get approval from human review boards for the other half of the experiment (the teenagers that you're going to make sure have been exposed to plenty of pornography, to study its supposed effects) would be nearly impossible. But as the previous reviewer points out, we have a vast profusion of anecdotal evidence: pornography is widely available in Europe, which seems to have fewer of the supposedly pornography-related problems than does the United States. Second, since almost all teenagers voluntarily expose themselves to pornography, it's safe to observe that the vast majority of them suffer from no effects. Who are we protecting with laws prohibiting minors from obtaining pornography? Parents who cannot and will not deal with the fact that their 12-year-old son is always horny and quite probably already is sexually (if not emotionally or intellectually) an adult?	2001-10-03
US	52825125	R32NUPO90X2BI4	1890058009	687164452	Promise Keepers: Another Trojan Horse : They Really Are Breaking Down the Walls	Books	1	3	8	N	N	Simply astonishing (in its absurdity)	This book essentially argues that the Promise Keepers, an evangelical organization with a group of fundamentalist, charismatic and/or Pentacostal leaders, isn't fundamentalist enough, that PK has sold out to moderates and compromisers. A great book for extremists.	2001-09-02
US	52825125	R1183YYH9X6WA4	0452261589	400890537	The Art and Craft of Feature Writing: Based on The Wall Street Journal Guide	Books	5	97	100	N	Y	The best book I've ever read on the writing process	The reviewer from Laguna Niguel who says this book is boring apparently has been reading too many textbooks and therefore is only used to reading textbooks. Yes, the examples in this book are out of date, but so what? The full-text examples are still excellent articles after 15 years or so; great writing is always great writing even after it goes from being current events to being history. In 1984, I saw the transcript of Blundell's lectures on feature writing that became the basis for this book, and I still use this book in teaching my feature writing course and my magazine writing course, because nothing else comes close. Among many other accomplishments, this book gives students a SYSTEM for coming up with original story ideas and original story angles that most of them couldn't come up with on their own--in direct contrast to other books that use poetry or other gimmicks to try to make students &quot;feel creative&quot; and then be creative. Rather than being read once or not at all and/or being used only for reference, this is a book that should be read over and over again.	2001-06-07
US	52825125	R2PIF8JBKY2JX3	0226268802	105876804	News Values: Ideas for an Information Age	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Superb!	This is simply an excellent book written by an obviously very bright, perceptive and experienced writer and editor in the newspaper industry. I have been practicing and/or teaching journalism for 20 years--and therefore have read a lot of books about journalism (the newspaper industry in particular)--and yet was quite impressed. The book's section on why journalists need to be better-educated, better-trained and more specialized alone justifies the book's publication. If only there were more evidence of Jack Fuller's insights, skills, philosophies, and conclusions in his company's Chicago Tribune--which in many ways does not, on a day-to-day basis, live up to its reputation.	2001-03-09
US	52825125	R2B7UB2AOM2X4M	0385486995	285859665	Who Are the Promise Keepers?	Books	1	1	1	N	N	One big advertisement	It is simply astonishing that a publishing house such as Doubleday would publish a book like this, and market it as a comprehensive introduction to the group.  As Bryan Brickner pointed out in his review here, Abraham is a PK insider, and this book is essentially just one long press release or advertisement for the organization. Of course the book doesn't have one negative word about PK or Bill McCartney, or at least none that aren't &quot;spun&quot; to their advantage and for their benefit.	2000-12-13
US	52825125	RSFZFB7CF8S0F	0684836696	770654209	Losing the Race: Self-Sabotage in Black America	Books	5	30	53	N	Y	Time for a sequel	McWhorter is to be commended for this book.  But I couldn't help but often thinking that while criticizing African-American culture, he was giving the rest of American culture too much of a free ride.  I didn't spot any reference to Richard Hofstadter's Pulitzer Prize-winning Anti-intellectualism in American Life (Knopf, 1963, still in print in paperback) even in McWhorter's chapter on black anti-intellectualism.  The truth is that, while whites and Asians perform better in school and on standardized tests, that's not really saying very much! (Ouch.) Only about 25% of American adults have an associate's degree or higher, and an equal number are functionally illiterate.  The United States not only is choosing to, but is being forced to, &quot;import&quot; hundreds of thousands of computer scientists, engineers, software writers, various other scientists and graduate students in the hard sciences, etc., etc., from other countries NOT primarily because the science and technology sectors of the economy are growing so quickly (in fact, some scientific and technological fields are static or shrinking) --but because the United States simply doesn't have enough citizens educated in those areas.  And that isn't because the U.S. population isn't big enough, or those jobs don't pay well, or that they're not interesting, or that colleges are unaffordable or unavailable; it's because American culture is too anti-intellectual to produce a large number of scientists, engineers, mathematicians, etc., on its own.  Most Americans (not those living over Central Park or with a view of the Golden Gate Bridge) need only look around their neighborhoods and the local shopping mall to see how far we are from a truly information-based, high-tech economy. And it doesn't help, as Todd Gitlin pointed out in the Dec. 8, 2000 issue of The Chronicle of Higher Education, to have an president such as George W. Bush--who did poorly in school, is proudly anti-intellectual, and fudges student achievement statistics in Texas.	2000-12-11
US	52825125	RV0EX0R37BNEQ	078640700X	232696089	The Promise Keepers: Essays on Masculinity and Christianity	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	&quot;Belongs on the shelf of anyone...study[ing]...PK&quot;	This review was almost entirely favorable, so I gave it 5 stars; I hope the reviewer would agree--Dr. Dane S. Claussen<br />Sean F. Everton of Stanford University writes, in part, in the Sept. 2000 issue of the Review of Religious Research: &quot;This book belongs on the shelf of anyone who is engaged in a serious study of the Promise Keepers (PK). Dane Claussen, an assistant professor of Mass Communication at Southwest Missouri State University, has brought together a series of essays that explore PK from a variety of theoretical and methodological perspectives. Contributors include scholars from the fields of journalism and mass communication, political science, sociology, religion, women's studies, American studies, history, speech, sports science and more. The book's greatest strength lies in this broad cross-section of scholarly research.... &quot;The historical chapters provide valuable information concerning the historical and religious context lying behind PK.... &quot;Readers will benefit from George Lundskow's, Don Deardorff's and Bryan Brickner's essays.... &quot;I found the book's closing chapters on the relationship between PK and the media fascinating. Claussen's analysis of PK news coverage notes that, in contrast to previous coverage of evangelical Christianity, PK has received almost entirely positive coverage. Ken Waters' examination of PK's public relations strategy found that it not only helped PK avoid becoming a 'spokes-group' for the Christian Right, it has also helped increase the amount of favorable media coverage it has received. L. Dean Allen's analysis found that in spite of the fact that PK has received relatively positive or uncritical media coverage, men involved in PK continue to perceive the media's coverage of PK as unfavorable.... &quot;[The book's] weaknesses, however, are mere quibbles. They are clearly overshadowed by the numerous insights provided by the book's contributors. Claussen has done an admirable job in bringing theseessays together. His book not only enriches our understanding of the Promise Keepers but of evangelicalism as well.&quot;	2000-10-29
US	52825125	R3S494I6IQPKGS	078640700X	232696089	The Promise Keepers: Essays on Masculinity and Christianity	Books	3	1	2	N	Y	Review in the July/August 2000 issue of Choice magazine	I don't know how many stars the reviewer would give the book, so I split  the difference and entered &quot;three&quot;--Dane S. Claussen<br />L.H.  Mamiya of Vassar College writes in Choice magazine: &quot;Claussen  (Southwest Missouri State University) has edited a helpful collection of  essays on the Promise Keepers that employs a diversity of analytical  perspectives and methodologies, from historical to social scientific to  phenomenological. With 22 articles, an introductory essay by Randall  Balmer, and a concluding assessment by Robert Linder, there are strengths  and weaknesses to the volume. The most interesting chapters are the  historical, showing how the Promise Keepers are related to earlier  evangelical movements of muscular Christianity in America or comparing the  group to fraternal movements like the Masons. Balmer's emphasis on the  &quot;militarism and athleticism&quot; of such movements is a keen insight.  George Lundskow's social science interviews with followers of the movement  and Tanya Erzen's study of evangelical women's movements modeled on the  Promise Keepers provide useful information about the motivations and  worldviews of those attracted to the group. The main weakness is a lack of  coherence and sustained analysis, which results in the presentation of  contradictory views. Essays on media coverage of the Promise Keepers by  Claussen and Ken Waters could use some cultural analysis by comparing the  Promise Keepers' 1997 &quot;Stand in the Gap&quot; rally in Washington, DC,  with the Nation of Islam's 1995 &quot;Million Man March.&quot; Recommended  for upper-division undergraduates, graduate students, and  specialists.&quot;<br />Claussen responds: because I and so many of the other  authors work in the social sciences, we believe that the presentation of  contradictory views is a strength, not a weakness. And although lacking  from the volume, the comparison of media coverage of Stand in the Gap and  the Million Man March can be found in my other book on PK.	2000-08-31
US	52825125	R2AHN6SY7WKA04	0807031224	512043892	THE KNOWLEDGE FACTORY: DISMANTLING THE CORPORATE UNIVERSITY AND CREATING TRUE HIGHER LEARNING	Books	5	40	46	N	N	Excellent, but also nothing new	Aronowitz has written an excellent book here, but the overall message is nothing new. Richard Hofstadter, in his early 1960s book, Anti-intellectualism in American Life (which won a Pulitzer Prize),  demonstrated that American culture had been anti-intellectual since the  early 19th century and perhaps earlier. Approximately one-fourth of that  book was concerned with anti-intellectualism in U.S. education. In 1987,  the liberal Russel Jacoby published The Last Intellectuals and the  conservative Allan Bloom published The Closing of the American Mind;  Bloom's book also was essentially about anti-intellectual American culture,  while Jacoby's was about anti-intellectual intellectuals, a group that  largely overlaps with U.S. college professors. Most recently, Edward Said  called attention to the dearth of public intellectuals in his  Representation of the Intellectuals (including [American] colleges'  responsibility for this situation), and Daniel Rigney, Leon Fink, Dane  Claussen and others have written about anti-intellectualism and higher  education, or (the lack of) public intellectuals and higher education.	2000-03-16
US	52825125	R28PW20IBAT5QB	0029340217	687266157	News and the Culture of Lying: How Journalism Really Works	Books	5	8	9	N	N	This book should be reprinted	An excellent, tell-it-like-is book about the mass media. It didn't receive nearly enough attention from reviewers or the general public. A couple of  years ago, I planned on requiring my journalism students to read it but  then found out it had just gone out of print. It should be reprinted.	1999-10-24
