US	52827802	R2XREJVVL731GN	1416508996	467222709	The Time of Troubles II (Bk. 2)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A repackaging of two older Videssos novels	With this book and The Time of Troubles I, the 4-book Time of Troubles novels are being republished. Volume II contains The Thousand Cities, which is told from the Marukaner General Abivard's point of view, and Videssos Besieged, which is told by his counterpart (and foe) the Videssian Emperor. Abivard has come  up in the world since the first book in the series (see Time of Troubles I for The Stolen Throne).  Now the General to King Sharbaraz, Abivard finds his problems have gotten more difficult.  While he has successfully invaded all the Westlands of Videssos, he cannot find a way to cross the sea into the capital.  Meanwhile the Videssan army is now striking back, using their navy to place troops wherever they wish.  King Sharbaraz expects Abivard to win more and more battles while offering fewer resources and troops.  And his wife Roshnani, while always offering able counsel, contines to urge big changes in Marukan society.   <br /> <br />Videssos Besieged is again told by now-Emperor Maniakes, who is losing support as the war continues to falter.  Tax revenues are almost non-existant with the Marukan army occupying most of the West, and the Kubrati invading from the North.  Now he's losing the support of the priests and the people for committing incest; he married his first cousin and he's quite happy about it.  Turtledove shows us his background as a technical writer in spending far too long describing a magical spell in forging a document that's just a fantasy version of cut and paste using an actual (squeak!) mouse. <br /> <br />Once again the books closely follow the history of the Byzantine Empire, with magic overlayed here and there. This is the same formula, history meets fantasy, used in the Darkness series (which retold World War II as a sword and sorcery epic) and the Peachtree trilogy (The US Civil War). Turtledove, as always, does it well. <br /> <br />I can't give the book (the two novels) five stars because the characters are too similar to Turtledove's other heroes: logical-thinking straight-talking types married to women much like themselves. The characters observe repeatedly that war kills people, that women do battle in the birthing bed, and that people are people the world over. The books are enjoyable but don't make the leap to profound.	2005-10-10
US	52827802	R9WGTSLRPQAUV	1416509046	175376564	The Time of Troubles I (Bk. 1)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Repackaging of 2 older Videssos novels	With this book and The Time of Troubles II, the 4-book Time of Troubles novels are being republished.  Volume I contains The Stolen Throne, which is told from the Marukaner Abivard's point of view, and Hammer and Anvil, which moves to the Videssian Empire six years later.  Abivard starts off his novel as a diqhan, a landholder in the frontier area, who ends up helping the rightful King of Marukan regain his throne.  In order to defeat the usurping King, Abivard must join forces with the Emperor of Videssos, and a price will be paid for that cooperation. <br /> <br />Hammer and Anvil has protagonist Maniakes, who leads an insurrection against the bloodthirsty Videssian Emperor (who gained the throne by murdering the previous Emperor, the very one who helped Abivard in the previous novel). <br /> <br />Once again the books closely follow the history of the Byzantine Empire, with magic overlayed here and there.  This is the same formula, history meets fantasy, used in the Darkness series (which retold World War II as a sword and sorcery epic) and the Peachtree trilogy (The US Civil War).  Turtledove, as always, does it well.   <br /> <br />I can't give the book (the two novels) five stars because the characters are too similar to Turtledove's other heroes: logical-thinking straight-talking types married to women much like themselves.  The characters observe repeatedly that war kills people, that women do battle in the birthing bed, and that people are people the world over.  The books are enjoyable but don't make the leap to profound.	2005-10-10
US	52827802	R3GY8SOJ0NOGHM	0451213076	165093773	Days of Infamy: A Novel of Alternate History	Books	4	19	22	N	N	Looks like another serial	Harry Turtledove's latest alternate history asks what would have happened if the Japanese had followed their air attack on Pearl Harbor with a full-scale invasion.  Denying Hawaii as a US base of operations, the Japanese could not only threaten the mainland, but more easily take over southeast Asia and islands without the US to stop them. <br /> <br />I had higher expectations, perhaps because this was the same publisher as his better novels Rule Brittania and In the Presence of Mine Enemies.  This reads more like the serials, and Turtledove has already done WWII TWICE.  That means he could write 90% of this book in his sleep, and some of it reads that way. <br /> <br />We're back to multiple viewpoints, military advances and retreats, civilians caught in the cross-fire, and strategy sessions.  Yep, it's WorldWar without the aliens, Darkness without the magic.  For local color we have a surfing society dropout, a nisei teen and his immigrant dad who react oppositely to the developments, a racist schoolteacher forced <br />into a career change, plus the usual grunts and generals.  Pilot trainees on the mainland who don't see any action are what suggests this book is merely the first of another three or four volume sprawlathon (and remember Derlevai took six books...) <br /> <br />A couple of anachronisms jarred.  Turtledove's characters use the word quisling repeatedly.  Yet the word comes from an actual person, Vidkun Quisling, a Norwegian who collaborated with the Nazis and headed a puppet government from 1940 until 1945 (when he was executed by firing squad). <br /> <br />Since this book takes place in 1941-42, how likely are the various characters to use this term as a synonym for traitor? (actually the word has a more specific meaning, one who betrays  ones country to act as a puppet for another)  Not one person mentions the actual Quisling, who was alive and taking orders from Germany at this time. <br /> <br />The other anachronism is while the schoolteacher character is first presented as a racist, her point of view is not shown as common as that sort of thing was in the early 1940s.  Moreover, there is little mention of miscegenation laws, which were common throughout the mainland, despite the mention of at least one white/Asian marriage in passing. <br /> <br />Other than that, an enjoyable read.  Without giving away any <br />spoilers, I'm disappointed that the ending is so ambiguous, neither promising a sequel nor leaving me happy enough to not need one.	2004-11-29
US	52827802	R1626NXSS8KEU	0345442822	898191940	Angry Housewives Eating Bon Bons (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	25	27	N	N	30 years of bon bons and books	Angry Housewives Eating Bon-Bons is the sort of tale that makes you laugh out loud, cry (repeatedly), reminisce, and feel privileged to be invited along for the ride.  The story of five women on a cul-de-sac in Minneapolis, Minnesota, their adventures, their confessions, and their joys made me want to be part of their book club, their neighborhood, their lives.<br />Narrated in turn by each of the five, while the other four weave in and out of each chapter, AHEB covers 30 years' worth of book club meetings, and incidentally, their raising their children to adulthood.  Each woman has traits to admire and to recoil from; most of us will identify with at least one of them.  Motherly Kari (who has no child), Confident Audrey (sex on the brain, all the time), Terrified Merit (the beauty without power who rebels quietly), Indomitable Slip (small but powerful), Secretive Faith (whose casual lies keep all from knowing who she really is).  Typical readers of the genre will find at least one to identify with and use the others as foils.  We get to know all of them well enough to care.<br />It's not the emptiness of \\"chick lit\\" but it's not canonical either; this is 99.44% pure middlebrow.  The housewives are upper-middle-class moms who are affected by cultural changes despite their priveleged place; by the early nineties all of them have returned to work.  Some of the book is overly formulaic; by setting each chapter as a book club meeting, the author clearly used best-seller lists through the last 30 years.  Would such a book club always be ahead, or even on, that curve?  The sixties and early seventies seem more accurately researched and presented than the later seventies through early nineties; there was little sense of emotional presence or changed times in those chapters.  Think about all the little things we can't live without now that weren't there in 1985, like drive-through espresso or cell phones or the Internet (which earns a very brief mention at the end); it's hard to tell 1978 from 1998 in this book other than the kids getting older.<br />This novel is reminiscent of similar group histories such as How to Make an American Quilt by way of Marilyn French's The Women's Room.  While it is unfair to characterize the women of AHEB as merely a book club (since they all live on the same street, they are a community first and foremost), using literature as history is an interesting device.  The little snips of each woman's lives around the monthly meetings are taken in like a box of bon-bons: sweet, enjoyable, yet too much of it may not be that good for you.  by Maddi Hausmann Sojourner, 15 July 2004	2004-07-16
US	52827802	RSYTX18UI28RJ	0765302861	780372421	The First Heroes: New Tales of the Bronze Age	Books	4	15	19	N	N	Stories from the dawn of history	This book, with stories all set in the Bronze Age, will appeal to SF readers even though there's precious little SF about it.  It is the authors themselves that are well-known to the genre.  Co-Editor Harry Turtledove has an entry with an explanation for where the centaurs, fauns, and other mythological creatures went, which is one of the stronger stories in the book.  Other big SF names are Gene Wolfe, with a time-traveler who finds himself aboard the Argo instead of the Mayflower; Judith Tarr, whose tale illustrates how a city's fortune can rise or fall based on its weapons rather than its deities; S.M. Stirling, with a short story from his Nantucket universe, where the modern island is transported back to the Bronze age to dominate trade and warfare; and Poul Anderson, closing the collection with another time-traveler who wants to study the Bronze Age but faces instead the rise of the Age of Iron.<br />Tarr has previously collaborated with Turtledove in their novel \\"Household Gods.\\" Laura Frankos (\\"The Sea Mother's Gift,\\" a purely historical tale of the Orkney Islanders) is married to him.  Co-editor Noreen Doyle is an historian, and her Egyptian tale, based on an actual inscription, is also straight history.<br />All the stories are worth reading; there isn't a stinker in the collection.  Doyle and Turtledove also included some useful introductory material before each story.  This ought to be standard in books like these, where not every reader has a Ph.D. in that era, but in Turtledove's last stint as editor he neglected to give a setting for the stories in _Alternate Generals II_.  I was pleased to see these necessary lead-ins when I finished their introduction to the book.<br />Best stories are Turtledove's \\"A Horse of Bronze,\\" featuring Meditteranean Sea-faring centaurs who discover humans in the British Isles; \\"Blood Wolf\\" by Stirling, which made me want to read the Nantucket novels, and Frankos' \\"The Sea Mother's Gift,\\" which was the most evocative and hadthe best sense of character and place.  The story that failed did so in an interesting way: Gregory Feeley's \\"Giliad\\" seemed like it was the result of a hard disk erasure gone awry.  I think what he was trying to do was give the sense of an incompletely erased clay tablet that he uses as a metaphor for his Bronze Age literary stand-in, but this story that takes place right before and after 9/11/01, in Manhattan, never seemed to catch on with me.  There is also a confusing segment with a possibly gay couple who is never mentioned again, while the erudite modern family (including an eight-year-old daughter who talks more like a 15 year old) and the Sumerian girl intertwine throughout the story.  This tale is thus literary experimentation, and I commend Feeley for the attempt but this needs the love and care of a stronger editor.	2004-07-02
US	52827802	R1THOB5C1IMKF	0670032646	621157776	American Dynasty: Aristocracy, Fortune, and the Politics of Deceit in the House of Bush	Books	4	22	22	N	N	A good book that could have been a great one	Kevin Phillips is a Republican, and he wants you to see him as a Republican's Republican.  And because he loves his party he wrote American Dynasty to warn everyone about George W. Bush.  Clearly hailing from the northeastern Rockefeller branch of the GOP, Phillips has no love for the cultural conservatives who are ascendent in turn of the century Republicanism.  While this work does refer to GWB's connections and then embracement of the religious conservative wing, Phillips' anger is clearly directed at the Bush family's economic policies.  Classic Republicans were the party of small government and free markets, yet Phillips paints the Bushes as purveyors of bloated crony capitalism.  And if that phrase makes you think of Teapot Dome, Phillips will describe that 1920s scandal, and contrast it, in great detail, with the far more egregious sins of the second Bush Administration.<br />With copious historical references, sources, and background, Phillips shows the recurring themes in four generations of the Bush family.  Secrecy begins with the rites at Skull & Bones at Yale University; loyalty, rewarding the faithful and ruthlessly punishing those who speak publicly; enrichment through connections in the public sphere.  Image matters more than accomplishments, and George W. probably was the wastrel son because he was tormented by how little he accomplished compared to his father George H.W. (who in turn was less learned and thorough than grandfather Prescott).  <br />Phillips also points to the Bush family's dependence on the Walkers, showing why so many Bush sons keep the name alive.  It's their money: the Walkers had the cash, the Bushes took advantage of it.  Another interesting theme covered is the Bush families incessant avoidance of the term \\"dynasty\\" in referring to themselves, and how they push back at journalists who bring it up.  And while Phillips goes relatively easy on GWB for his despoilation of the environment (his rage is more toward the corruption than the destruction), he spends an entire chapter plus many more references showing how GWB became a fundamentalist Christian, how he managed his relationship with the Religious Right, and what it means to the rest of the world.  Short answer: if this was his base (both in Texas and in the US as a whole, then no one would outdo him in his support).<br />An odd note mars what is otherwise a scholarly yet passionately angry work: Phillips has just as much rage toward 42nd President Bill Clinton as he does toward the Bushes 41 and 43 (especially 43).  Yet he asks the reader to take his condemnation on his say-so, calling him immoral, undignified, or the like.  Phillips demonstrates that his disgust with the Bushes is merited, but doesn't show any proof of Clinton's weaknesses, probably because he is contrasting his opinions on Clinton's public sexual outing with the rock-solid proof of GWB's moral depravity (false statements to support profitable wars, plundering the treasury for the super-wealthy, no-bid contracts, and religious opinion elevated over scientific research).  Yet curiously, despite the unease that these snappings at Clinton induce, they actually end up supporting Phillips' case against Bush by showing Phillips has no agenda with the Democrats.  by Maddi Hausmann Sojourner 30 June 2004	2004-06-30
US	52827802	R1PFJ2YGN5SNVB	0394800133	832870420	One Fish Two Fish Red Fish Blue Fish (I Can Read It All by Myself)	Books	5	37	84	N	N	Prescient political pondering of our polarized prolatariat	Just as Seuss covered anti-intellectualism in Green Eggs and Ham, and alternate lifestyles in Hop on Pop, the Fish book is a trenchant political analysis.  Foreseeing the red vs. blue state deadlock back in the idealistic  better-living-through-chemistry early 1960s, Suess contrasts the red (as in communist) fish with the all-American blue fish.  This motif weaves through the book, teaching little ones the red vs. blue tension of multiculturalism (in the form of strange animals) and isolationism of Ned in his too-small bed.  While most younger children will miss the allusion to Procrustes, they may remember the literary echo in Hop on Pop: Ned joins Red, Ted, and Ed in a more appropriately sized bed, and Seuss shows his support for the UN, or at least the International Monetary Fund.<br />The tension is palpable when the young boy and girl bring home a large, walrus-like pet and wonder how their mother will feel about their deed; no preschooler could miss this reference to the Teapot Dome scandal.  Similarly, their advice to get a pet Yink simply because of its fondness for pale red india writing product is a sardonic commentary on rampant consumerism.  And the camel-like Wump shows his prophetic realization that our demand for oil would force us to deal with the Saudis on a regular basis.<br />Seuss warns us of the coming divide in these United States in the introduction: \\"From there to here, from here to there, funny things are everywhere.\\"  It starts with the fish, red, blue, and black (but not white, showing where Geisel's sympathies lie), young and old, then proceeds up the evolutionary chain to large land mammals, eventually including the aforementioned school-aged boy and girl.  They serve as the Adam and Eve as well as the Joe and Joan Sixpak of the book.  They espouse embracing what is different while they reinforce doing the same.<br />Seuss knew where we were headed in both 2000 and 2004, and this book shows the way out.  The US has plenty of (pale) red ink, so we should get a Yink.  I think.	2004-06-28
US	52827802	R1B7D1T5XGTTCG	0452285194	548504976	White House Inc. Employee Handbook	Books	2	52	74	N	N	Take basic premise, repeat, repeat, repeat, repeat, repeat	This is the sort of book that illustrates the difficulty of switching from one medium to another.  Just as radio star Laura Schlessinger made a terrible television host, Whitehouse.org's hilarious site fails when turned into a book-length parody of an employee manual.  <br />There are two reasons this book falls flat.  The first is that there isn't enough original humor, so the authors keep flogging the same ideas over and over and over and over and over and over and over.  They have to, they have 150 pages to fill.  But that doesn't mean I enjoy reading the same joke appearing in as many cameos as there are subsections.  Okay, I get it, White House denizens are there to make as much money however they can.  Faith-based departments everywhere.  It's not that I don't agree, it's just that it's enough, already.<br />Worse, one of the overly-repeated themes is \\"Republicans are sexists and racists.\\"  The authors don't just flog this idea, they are so over the top in expressing it that I began to wonder if there was a bit of \\"hee hee, we can say this racist and sexist stuff and claim we're really making fun of George Bush because it's something we think HE would have said when the mikes are off.\\"  And it's the same jokes, over and over: Latinos parking the cars, blacks on (or being kicked off) welfare, Arabs are all terrorists, women should put out for their bosses.<br />Satire is supposed to act as a magnifying glass, highlighting the ugly pores and nasal hair, but this book unintentionally draws attention back to the writers themselves.  Are they actually more xenophobic than they think the Administration is?<br />Between these two flaws of overrepetition and over-the-top, this book, which should have been as side-splittingly funny as the website, never even got me to smile.  Each chapter was a chore to complete.  After reading 2/3 of it, I finally gave up; this is probably the first political humor title I ever gave up on.	2004-06-28
US	52827802	R22GQSJ3ZT0I14	0312265867	394337300	To the Nines: Stephanie Plum Novels	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Nine Time Lucky	I adored the first four Stephanie Plum novels.  Janet Evanovich's heroine was funny, plucky, and without a doubt the worst bounty-hunter who ever crossed the Delaware River.  I absolutely loved the idea of a solidly working-class character who was reasonably smart but still incompetent.  Stephanie not only can't bring in her bail jumpers, she can't even get through a novel without having several cars explode.<br />The next four novels, however, seemed to be running on the first four's momentum.  There are only so many times one can laugh at a sex-starved grandma who enjoys opening coffins at the funeral home.  The feud with Joyce was getting tiresome, too.  Stephanie's shtick was wearing.<br />In _To the Nines_, Evanovich learned to drop what needed dropping yet keep what made Stephanie such fun to hang out with.  Colleague Lula is trying yet another ridiculous diet, her family is coming apart at the seems as sister Valerie is about to deliver a baby out of wedlock, and the tension between Joe Morelli and the mysterious Ranger is cranked up as both trade off serving as Stephanie's bodyguards.  And I'm thrilled with what Evanovich came up with to replace the ruined cars Stephanie used to go through.<br />A fun read, with a thrilling chase scene at the end.  While figuring out who the bad guy is was easier than usual, the strong characterizations and interesting plot turns make up for it.  If you've gotten tired of this series, come back To The Nines.	2004-05-10
US	52827802	RHZS5MV7TEK25	0765304384	744554497	Out of the Darkness	Books	4	8	10	N	N	The end, at last	Out of the Darkness, by Harry Turtledove<br />The finale of a six-book series, which spans almost as many years in this fantasy retelling of World War II.  This last book is the equivalent of 1945's collapse of Germany as the US and the USSR find themselves switching from allies to rivals.  Turtledove's recasting our history as a fantasy world is intriguing, but after six books some of the analogies start to wear thin.<br />Once again he follows more than a dozen different people through their misadventures due to war and social upheaval.  Some will still be alive by the end of this book.  Of those who don't make it, Turtledove is ready to move others in to represent that part of the story.  Once again slight links to his other works flicker in and out: a character wondering what the world would be like if magic didn't work, or if there were no kings, or finding the phrase &quot;I thank you&quot; in two places (a common phrasing from yet another WWII series of his).  Some characters will even find a happy ending, but not all.<br />While this book, like the other five, was difficult to put down (I read it whenever I could over a day and a half), the formula which was so fresh and exciting in the first book seemed worn by book six.  Yes, the aggressor nation, which is supposed to be Germany but the natives all have red hair, Italian names, and flamboyant style, loses in the end.  Yes, one of the allies entering the war late becomes victorious, despite the Finnish names, the subdued emotions, and distinct resemblance to East Asians.  About 75% of the story is straight history, add in the substitutions of technology for magic and monarchy everywhere, and then a few of Turtledove's adjustments.  No China or Southeast Asia, no India, no Near or Middle Eastern nations either.  The US equivalent shares an island with the British equivalent, yet the respective natives are very different from each other.  In fact it was these blatant physical similarities between national groups that was hardest to accept by this sixth volume.  Wouldn't there be mixes among the groups, especially at borders?  While the &quot;Poles&quot; did bear some similarity to the &quot;Russians,&quot; it was the strikingly different looks of the &quot;Brits&quot; versus the &quot;Americans,&quot; sharing an island a la Haiti/Dominican Republic that made me lose it.<br />And the technology for magic analogy also started to break down, despite the success of the &quot;Manhattan project&quot; (which was one of Turtledove's more ingenious ideas here).  Because not once in these six books do any of these characters, who have lots and lots of marital relations, ever use or discuss or even wish for birth control.  If sorcery works, wouldn't that be one of the first things people would ask for?  Yet the problem of illegitimate and unacknowledged children is everywhere.  And there is no religious authority, parallel to the Catholic Church, say, that is trying to stop birth control either, in fact there is no religion in these books at all other than the Japanese equivalents' constant concern for whether the stars will shine on their spirits after death.<br />I think Turtledove started off great with the series and the idea of technology equals magic.  After all the &quot;Americans&quot; had the best sorcery, such as the rest crate; a box that suspends time so you can keep your food hot or cold until you need it.  But with all his effort on the magical version of an A-bomb, Turtledove didn't plan for what people really want from practical sorcery.  (Yeah, a tailor using a charm to do most of his hand-stitching is kind of cool, but why isn't that midwife using any of these arts?)<br />Still worth reading, still enjoyable, still has lots of thought behind the concept, and 300 times better than the poorly-executed Detina series (fantasy version of US civil war).  But good enough that I dared to expect perfection and then was dissatisfied when I didn't get it.	2004-04-19
US	52827802	R11HLNW8I6QSB3	0385424345	137433229	Edge City: Life on the New Frontier (Anchor Books)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	On the Edge	This was the first book on cities and planning I ever read, and I was captivated through most of it.  Filled with fascinating views on how real estate and commerce work together, this book ties together views of different metropoles as they develop their &quot;Edge Cities,&quot; grown-up suburbs that are more than bedroom communities.  These Edge Cities have overwhelmed the central city that gave birth to them, as suburbanites find them easier to commute to (at first), and certainly cleaner than the &quot;real city.&quot;  Gridlock and sprawl are the result as the Edge Cities go up everywhere.<br />And I still remember my eagerness in reading this terrific book, city after city, looking forward to the San Francisco chapter... and my crushing disappointment when Garreau discussed not Silicon Valley, the quintessential Edge City, but... Concord.  Concord?  How did he miss Silicon Valley, at the intersection of 85 and 280, or 101 and 880, or... (Garreau feels freeway junctions lead to Edge Cities)<br />Okay, other than my personal disappointment that he missed the real story, that the suburban metroplex is none other than San Jose/Santa Clara/Cupertino/Sunnyvale/Mountain View/Palo Alto/Redwood City this is still a great book.  The endpapers show the contrast between Tyson's Corners postwar and in the nineties, and what a contrast it is.<br />This book goes well with &quot;Suburban Nation,&quot; which shows how to avoid the downside of Edge Cities.	2004-04-19
US	52827802	R14PV8R05PSZCC	0865476063	690664705	Suburban Nation: The Rise of Sprawl and the Decline of the American Dream	Books	5	136	144	N	N	One of the ten best books on American life	I found this book intriguing, because the authors understand why I like my neighborhood.  Even better, they understand why I hate so many new housing projects.  This is an important book, as vital as Jane Jacobs' work, and it has some uncomfortable truths to share.  The US has become a Suburban Nation; a nation of badly-designed suburbs.  The newest, more expensive ones are some of the worst.<br />My neighborhood has houses that are smallish, but sidewalks are everywhere.  There are stores within reasonable walking distance, and not too many cul-de-sacs.  Three parks are less than a mile away.  That means I can walk more than one route to get places.  More importantly, others walk the neighborhood too, so I actually meet my neighbors.  A neighborhood built almost 50 years ago, the trees are mature (a rarity in Silicon Valley burbs) and provide shade, coolness, and beauty.  8000 square foot lots are neither so small that the houses are crushed together nor so large that walking seems to get you nowhere because it takes too long to pass each property.<br />Contrast this with the new developments going in: miniscule yards (and therefore little greenery), matchstick trees that don't receive any sun, overly wide arterials that offer only one way into or out of the development.  Walls around the complex not only keep outsiders out, they prevent insiders from going out, too, unless they get in the car and crowd onto the only access road.  Once in one's car, there is no opportunity to talk with neighbors on the inside, either.<br />Before reading Suburban Nation, I still had the same sense of what made a neighborhood compelling and we bought our home accordingly, preferring the old small house over the big new ones despite my need for closet space.  Authors Duany, Plater-Zybeck, and Speck articulate these principals clearly and enjoyably.  With many photographs illustrating both good and bad examples of city planning, Suburban Nation shows the consequences of bad assumptions as well as bad results.  The authors like Winter Park, FL, because its downtown is walkable and residents, most of them retired and many who have given up driving, can easily participate in community life.  They hate most of the new burbs being built because there is no there there, there's just a road from here to somewhere else with no central gathering point.<br />Most of the failure of the modern suburb is due to the automobile.  Wider roads make a community less cohesive, because a wide road encourages speeding, while a narrow one encourages drivers to slow down, regardless of the posted speed limit.  New communities have ridiculously wide roads, which not only lead to unsafe traffic but also discourages pedestrians.  Cul-de-sacs, corners, and curves are overly wide as well, to accomodate uneeded 40 foot fire trucks; completely unneeded in a suburb where no building is over two stories but purchased by town councils wanting their fire chiefs to be happy.  The net result is a 120 foot walk to cross a street instead of 40 feet because the corners are shaved to allow the stupid fire truck access, the fire truck the suburb DOES NOT NEED because a smaller truck would do just as good a job.<br />People claim to want to live in the suburbs for a smaller community, but the way they are built frustrates any chance of finding it.  Planners consider schools to be traffic nuisances and build them away from central locations, yet larger schools are what leads to disconnection.  Putting them on the boundaries instead of the center of town destroys a chance of meeting other children from the neighborhood, and further increases car usage.  The authors ask why a school is considered a traffic nuisance rather than making them smaller to be community assets?<br />Duany and Plater-Zybeck have designed some marvelous new communities, and hope this well-written and ground-breaking book will publicize why they succeed.  The first step is repealing the planning rules that prevent all these elements of vital community.  Read Suburban Nation and find out how community building begins with good design.	2004-03-31
US	52827802	R315SE1RNC2KHQ	0060563893	322269217	Blue Blood (Debutante Dropout Mysteries, No. 1)	Books	3	30	33	N	N	Fun read but unchallenging as a mystery	_Blue Blood_ is an amusing little story with an interesting narrator.  Andy (Andrea) Kendricks is an upper-crust Texas society girl, who decides that charity events, fund-raising, and hunt balls are not her thing, and declines to \\"come out\\" despite her mother's plans.  Now she's living the \\"normal\\" life, despite her mom's attempts to pull her back into the society whirl.<br />Andy's mom, Cissy Blevins Kendricks, is formidable; doing everything she can to introduce Andy to the \\"right\\" people, especially the right husband.  The book begins with Andy in a restaurant with her mother and yet another prospective beau; the evening was presented to Andy as a \\"night out with just us girls.\\"  Andy is unstoppable in her own way: she will smile at her mother but do things her own way and in her own good time.<br />Then Andy hears from her best friend from her prep school days.  Molly never fit in either, being the \\"scholarship girl\\" from a series of foster homes.  The girls went off to art college together but Molly ran off to Paris with her boyfriend, got pregnant, and was dumped.  Ten years later, Molly is calling Andy for help: she is accused of murdering her boss at the restaurant where she worked as a waitress.  The restaurant is a hillbilly version of Hooters, and the boss not only hit on the staff frequently, he seemed to have plenty of enemies.  But the police are convinced that they have arrested the culprit and Molly is denied bail, leaving Andy to take care of Molly's young son.<br />Andy isn't an investigator, she's a website designer.  She asks her mother to hire a lawyer for Molly, and mother reluctantly complies.  But the young man doesn't believe Molly is innocent, and doesn't seem to be trying very hard to help her.  So it's up to Andy to find the real killer.<br />I enjoyed McBride's descriptions and characters more than the underlying mystery.  Andy is haunted by her father's untimely death (right before her planned debut), and clearly has more in common withhim than her society mother.  But there weren't enough possible killers in the book to mislead me, the mark of a good whodunnit.  I was able to identify the guilty party far sooner than I should have because one clue was far too obvious.  The bad guys were coarsely drawn, with little nuance or any redeeming features.  And too many intermediate clues were clear to the reader well before Andy picked up on them.  I also felt McBride didn't convince me of Andy's expertise in her career as a website designer.  Someone comfortable with digital photography and HTML code (or even MS FrontPage) should have had more computer skills and savvy than Andy ever demonstrated.  The book could have worked just as well with Andy as a freelance writer or an accountant without changing anything else in the plot!<br />This a good, mindless, fun read, suitable for beaches or airplanes.  But as a mystery it is lacking.  mad-haus 1 March 2004	2004-03-01
US	52827802	RN1AK5IVTFACR	039480029X	23889865	Hop on Pop  (I Can Read It All By Myself)	Books	5	8	15	N	N	Way over the rainbow	Hop on Pop is a children's book that promotes alternative lifestyles.  Mr. Brown introduces us to his wife, and promptly abandons her, goes off to the big city and returns with a very odd companion.  Another man.  What if you son went off the the city and came back with Mr. Black?  Perhaps you should examine this book more closely!<br />The mysterious \\"Mr. Black\\" appears to be a Chassidic Rabbi.  So the innocent Mr. Brown was not only recruited into the lavender lifestyle when he turned \\"upside down,\\" but also entered a relationship outside his faith community.  We can assume that Mr. Brown was a decent, church-going man and now he's back from the big city, arm in arm with the nefarious Mr. Black, not only a Hebrew but no doubt a Communist to boot.<br />The al fresco meal they share, with not the good Mrs. Brown (completely out of the picture now that Mr. Brown has discovered<BR>The Rainbow Connection) but a perverted pup, foreshadows a decline into animal action on the last page.  (I thank Senator Santorum, R-PA, for alerting us to the danger of man on dog.)  The children are not tucked into their own, separate beds but share a blanket, AND join a large un-Biblical mammal called a Zeep.<br />Let us return to that repast with Brown, Black and that sick puppy.  They are eating sandwiches which are held such that the point is entering each of their mouths, turning the innocent nourishment of children into that dreaded symbol of a certain element: the triangle.  The deliberately slanted handmeal shows Seuss's evil plan to normalize this lifestyle, by flaunting the symbol to innocent children.  The linked sausages represent another disturbing but true aspect, namely the \\"elephant walk;\\" chained carnal acts with anonymous males.  These comestibles left lounging on the picnic blanket stand in for the multiple \\"receptions\\" one receives when recruited.<br />The banana bunch in the bowl, suggestive of multiple mesmerized male members, only reemphasizes that point, showing how Seuss will stop at nothing to ensure our children will be taken into that unwholesome lifestyle.  The final insult are the five apples on the picnic blanket, which no doubt reflect the Forbidden Fruit.  Seuss mocks all believers by displaying this produce at a perverse picnic featuring the recruited Mr. Brown, the commie fey Rebbe Black, and that disgusting canine who dares to stand on his hind legs: the number of apples are exactly the same as the number of wounds our Savior bore.  I assure you this was deliberate.<br />And Literal Man thought there was something twisted about Red, Ned, Ted and Ed sharing only one bed!  Dig deeper, LM, much much deeper!  There is a reason there is a RED fish in his other poetry volume.  Be very afraid.	2004-02-10
US	52827802	R3BMQXL4BE2G3Z	0394800168	328733059	Green Eggs and Ham	Books	5	127	179	N	N	Resistance is Futile... You will be Assimilated	Green Eggs and Ham is more than a simple children's tale of the need to try new foods.  It is a disturbing glimpse at the Cold War forces that made Eisenhower-era America the stifling society it was, a nightmare for the creative and intellectual classes.<br />It begins with an Everyman innocently reading in, we should presume, his own home.  A stranger runs past him with a wooden sign announcing that he is Sam.  Our protagonist recognizes he is the victim of a home invasion, but like so many restrained Updike males, is unable to voice his objection to his domestic tranquility being shattered, other than to utter a powerless plea that he doesn't care for this Sam character.<br />Sam, having taken the upper hand, moves beyond in-your-face picketing (note the clever denegration of peace activists by this introduction) and will now force our hero to eat some offensive looking victuals: meat clearly in the advanced stages of rot, and eggs to match.  There is a suggestion that the spineless victim brought this upon himself by hiding from society, engaging in anti-American activity by reading books.  The reader is left to ponder whether the victim is a Communist, or at the very least a vegetarian.  For this reason, Sam, cleverly named to represent the consensus view of these United States, must prevail.<br />The victim's protests are many, his attempts at evasion numerous.  Leaving the safety of his home only increases his discomfort; he is forced to endure the company of several possibly rabid mammals, all while Sam keeps shoving the unwanted offal in his face.  While he has removed the irrepressible Sam from his house, he must also deal with roller-coaster rides into the water, while getting rained on and being forced to climb a tree; none of these being interests of your typical egghead.  As the story moves along, the reader feels less and less sympathy for the victim, blaming his situation on his noncomformity, even if the society of those who wish him to eat rotten animal products are animals themselves.<br />The presumptive lesson of this book is that one must conform to social pressure, or even worse things will happen.  This fable is an important lesson for today, with so many anti-intellectual messages coming from both government and media.  Viewed in its proper context, we see it as a cautionary tale of a hellishly restrictive society that is back with a vengeance.	2004-02-08
US	52827802	R29HKKZ9F4C44J	0152038671	802143617	Arithmetic for Billy Goats (Curriculum-Related Books)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A child's first book on binary computing... really!	I found this delightfully deceptive book in the children's section long ago, and thought it was a picture book.  It had pen and ink drawings of two billy goats, and they were arguing over a pile of corncobs, but being goats, they didn't know how to count.<br />Since goats have two hooves instead of ten fingers or toes, they wouldn't use the same kind of math as we do.  One of the goats inadvertently invents binary arithmetic, or base two.  He counts all the corncobs with just two digits, yes and no.  The other goat disagrees with him a bunch and doesn't get this new-fangled counting stuff, an amusing counterpoint to the inquisitive goat.  After all these years I do remember that there were yes-yes-no-no-yes-no-yes, or 101 of them.  And there's a nice postscript at the end explaining how computers use binary math too.<br />The postscript might be a might dated, using electronic rather than solid state computing, but it's still a delightful story, while introducing the concept of binary computing.	2004-01-26
US	52827802	R392KCI7NC9NUS	0380811146	230662326	Lost Burgundy:: The Book Of Ash, #4	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Last quarter of a terrific fantasy creation	Lost Burgundy is the fourth book in the \\"The Book of Ash.\\"  This isn't a series, as the books were all published simultaneously, and in the UK it was one 1100 page novel (the largest single-volume fantasy ever).  I guess the publisher figured in the US we have short attention spans.<br />The whole sequence of four books is difficult to categorize. While labeled Fantasy, it includes science fiction, alternative history, and postmodern deconstruction.  That, perhaps, is why several reviewers got annoyed with these books.  They don't stay in one category. This is not a failure but a success; this work is a tour de force.<br />In Book IV, Ash and her mercenary company are stuck in Dijon, awaiting a battle with both soldiers and bizarre physical forces.  Elsewhere, the sun has ceased to shine.  Ash's twin (or clone) is somehow responsible, and Ash alternates between feelings of revenge and humiliation.  The wraparound story, correspondence between a modern author researching Ash, and his editor, is also changing in tone; the editor suggests the author has gone quietly insane, but the reader senses he hasn't despite his reality disappearing.  There are elements of Phillip K. Dick in their tale, and it has slowly seeped into Ash's story as well.<br />While the denouement works, the epilogue feels out of place, almost as if it were written by someone less talented.  Other than needing a stronger ending, this is a terrific series that deserves your attention, all four books of it.	2004-01-26
US	52827802	R1ABUF54MRSSWC	044041833X	872660777	The Subtle Knife: His Dark Materials	Books	5	40	50	N	N	Subtle, incisive fantasy	This second volume in Pullman's epic trilogy is closer in tone to JRR Tolkien than JK Rowling, but religion and philosophy take center stage early on.  This battle of Good versus Evil has Pullman update Milton and Blake by questioning a LOT of assumptions.<br />With the Catholic Church scandal revealing painful new developments every day, Pullman's work becomes ever more timely. Are institutions created to teach morality capable of staying moral? Can moral authorities resist authoritarianism? Which is more important, the integrity of the institution or protecting our most vulnerable citizens? All these issues come to fore, and in _The Subtle Knife_, the question of whether religion elevates or crushes the soul is never far from one's mind.<br />The previous novel introduced Lyra Silvertongue, who lived in an alternate Oxford (UK) where everyone has a animal-daemon who stays close at hand.  This volume introduces Will Parry, from our own Oxford, dealing with his incompetent mother and the disappearance of his explorer father.  Will travels to a dangerous Mediterranean world where soul-sucking wraiths only kill adults, meets Lyra, and the two join forces.  When Will discovers the Subtle Knife's power to cut portals between worlds, he and Lyra learn this is not only a method of escape, but an unstable force that could destroy many worlds.<br />Pullman clearly detests the evil done in the name of religion.  He is not necessarily anti-Catholic or anti-Christian but anti-authoritarian.  Anyone who has studied European history will recognize the characterization of a corrupt and overly powerful Church (denomination never specified). Lyra and Will are bringing The Enlightenment to several worlds who are as politically forward as pre-Reformation Europe, and must defeat powerful forces who have no interest in yielding. The book and its companion volumes work both as a springboard to the Big Questions and as an allegory for growing up and finding one's own way.<br />Literate,informed, evocative, and conceptually brilliant, this supposed Young Adult release will captivate adults as well.	2004-01-26
US	52827802	R34MBMRJEVHE1H	0793579910	582265970	Harmony and Theory: A Comprehensive Source for All Musicians (Essential Concepts (Musicians Institute).)	Books	5	123	134	N	N	Exactly what I needed!	I spent 12 years studying classical piano and I have always had a good ear for music (which means I can't sight-read ...).  When I went off to college, a group of people were jamming in the big room, so I sat down at the piano figuring I'd join in.  Well, despite my thinking I was such a great ear-player I hadn't the slightest idea what they were doing.  It sounded like the 1-4-5 boogie woogie I learned in sixth grade, but it wasn't.  They told me to stop playing because I was doing it wrong, so I slinked off in humiliation.<br />25 years later, my husband gave me this book.  He was tired of having to explain what he thought was fairly standard chord notation, and I was frustrated that despite my years of study, I had no idea what he was talking about.  I read the book through and I was back in that dorm social room... and I figured out what they were jamming on!!!!<br />This book explained it all, chord substitutions, variations, which keys go with others and why, what works, what doesn't, and what to call it so you can talk to other musicians.  I realize the typical reader would be someone who can play but can't read or write music, but don't count yourself out just because you can.  If, like me, you came from the classical world but never learned to talk rock or jazz theory, this is a great book for you.  It really was a Rosetta Stone for me.  And now I know what a flat-five substitution is and when to do it.	2004-01-26
US	52827802	R35305H5BHRFS3	0060520612	799606467	The Proper Care and Feeding of Husbands	Books	1	425	792	N	N	Did you all read a different book than I did?	I feel like I've wandered into an episode of The Twilight Zone, where everything looks the same and people sound the same, but all the words have a different meaning than they do in reality.<br />I've just read five reviews complaining about all the negative reviews of this book, but read 18 positive and two negative reviews. So are the complainants upset that other people LIKED this book? I read a lot of complaints about feminists, but didn't see any reviews from an actual feminist viewpoint. In fact, the two negative reviews seem like they were written by men who have an issue about those Internet photos.<br />Before moving onto the book, I wish to straighten out a few misconceptions about Laura Schlessinger. She is not a pychologist. I know another reviewer mentioned her degree is in physiology, and claimed that Schlessinger isn't hiding the fact, but she also isn't going out of her way to correct all the confused listeners who assume someone with a Ph.D. who gives advice and calls herself \\"Dr. Laura\\" must be a psychologist. In fact, a study reported in the Washington Post showed a whopping 73% of her listeners believe she is a psychiatrist or psychologist, some of whom mentioned the latter term in their reviews here.<br />And that Marriage and Family counseling credential? It's not valid anymore and hasn't been for years, despite her repeated claims that she is a \\"licensed therapist.\\" (You can verify this yourself. Go to the State of California's Behavioral Science Board and look up her license. It's all online.)<br />So, what does this have to do with the book? Well, in the case of an advice tome from a supposed expert, one should start by finding out if the \\"expert\\" is actually qualified. Does a doctorate in the cell structure of adipose tissue in lab rats help one give marital advice? The MFCC credential is a better fit, but the radio show, as well as the author, isn't called \\"Lapsed MFCC Laura.\\" Or even \\"MFCC Laura.\\"<br />So, what awaits the reader who neverheard of the radio show and wants some advice on improving things in the primary relationship? There are many good relationship books out there. Harville Hendrix has one of the better ones; this doesn't compare favorably. Some of the better material came straight out of her first (and best) book, Ten Stupid Things Women Do to Mess Up Their Lives. Since most of the 10 Stupid things involved bad choices or actions around men, it's an easy reach to this book, with a stop along the way with the 10 Stupid Things Couples Do to Mess Up Their Lives. There's also a Ten for Men (no, it has the same title as the other two), as well as the 10 Stupid Commandments That Have Messed Up Everybody's Lives. No, that last book is called The Ten Commandments: The Significance of God's Law in Everyday Life, although she also has one called The Ten Commandments: Do They Still Count?, which is a reduced version of the original one with the longer title.<br />This book's weakness, other than the material heavily borrowed from the Women and Couples books, or the letters and calls directly from the show, is the limpness of the prose. Listen to the Dr. Laura radio show: love it or hate it, it is compelling. Listeners may disagree on whether Schlessinger is brilliant or nasty, but it is hard to turn that radio off. But the writing in the book lies there like last week's leftovers. The snap in her repartee with live callers is utterly gone; there's a hint of it in the transcripts, but unless you've already heard the call, it's hard to get the same sense of it.<br />But the book's biggest failing is in how it demeans both men and women. Over and over, Schlessinger informs the reader than men are very simple creatures. I'm sure there are some men like that out there, but, er, no thank you. Her radio show routinely features \\"joking\\" references (I'm using the quotes because there's little in Schlessinger's tone to suggest that she is joking) to demanding jewelry and shopping sprees from one's husband. In other words, ladies, if you put out, you can get paid in valuable products, clothing, or home furnishings, just like those high-priced mistresses! And if you don't put out (and here's the part of the book that hit the media a few months ago), then you're a terrible wife and your husband would do well to leave you, so lie back and cheerfully think of England. Or that diamond necklace you've had your eye on.<br />Got that everyone? Men: simple creatures, want sex, want food. Happy now. Will not beat wife. Women: manipulative creature, put out, shut up, get sparkly things! Whoopie!<br />Whoo-hoo. While not advocating greeting hubby at the door in saran wrap and a smile (see Maribel Morgan's Total Woman from back in the 70s!), what's offered here isn't a lot better. Swallow it. Don't chatter, he doesn't want to hear it. Doesn't matter if you're not in the mood, Just Do It.<br />So, getting back to the Twilighty Thing From the Zone, I really am wondering what book everyone else reviewed here, because it couldn't have been Care & Feeding of Husbands. You've all read a book that's clearly insightful and helpful and of great help to your marriages, but I didn't. I found dead prose, an insulting view of both husband and wife, and up ahead, next stop, annoying music and a Rod Serling voice-over.<br />(originally submitted January 10th, 2004, by mad-haus)	2004-01-13
US	52827802	R3I2II6BHPMHKB	1400047579	230714329	Boogers Are My Beat: More Lies, but Some Actual Journalism	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Not his best, but still pretty good	This new Dave Barry collection is a mixed bag 'o boogers.  Some of the columns are his usual silliness (and I mean that in the nicest way), where he follows up on Alert Reader Notifications of bizarre events.  None of the Alert Readers came up with anything as hysterical as the exploding whale, or quick-starting a barbecue with liquid oxygen (some of his classic columns that bring a DB fan to teary laughter in just THINKING about them) in this book.  His best non-assignment piece, in my opinion, was the one on using the DECORATIVE towel as a real towel and upsetting your hostess forever.  His analogy of \\"purely for decoration\\" was brilliantly off-the-wall: imagine you're in a mechanic's shop, and he needs the (let's say) 7/32\\" wrench, so you head over to the wall to take it down for him.  HOLD IT, those wrenches are PURELY FOR DECORATION!  The real wrenches are in the closet!  Well, I was laughing out loud at the one.<br />Most of the better columns in this book will be found in his coverage of the two 2000 political conventions (although the recurring motif of journalists in search of parties started to wear thin), the 2000 Election (he observes this is the state that put the \\"duh\\" in \\"Florida\\"), as well as the 2002 Winter Olympics (which has some great comments about the pairs skating scandal).  The miscellaneous columns at the end (other than the DECORATIVE TOWELS) are too formulaic for me, having read too many of his older columns that did the same topics only better.  The ones on his 2 year old daughter are pale imitations of the columns he wrote about his son 15 years ago.  (Sorry, I'm still snorting over \\"Rob Barry, report to the Weinermobile.\\")  Although he had one more excellent column in this section, on gift tips for men to buy for women.  (Which is more useful, a 72,000 candlepower halogen torch with built-in can-opener, or a one-candlepower candle with bee poop stuck in it?) <br />If you've never read Dave Barry, you could start here, and if you like this book, then when you move on to his classic stuff, you'll enjoy that even more.  If you have read him and were getting tired of his schtick, well, here's some more schtick (with the exception of the serious columns at the end) and it's about the same as you'd expect.<br />I'll gladly still read whatever he writes, even if I only smile at most of it instead of busting a gut.  But I do thank him so much for the idea of purely decorative wrenches.  I'm off to decorate my garage.	2003-12-31
US	52827802	RFZL2F4D77M0X	1928873421	661807726	A Short Course in Canon EOS Digital Rebel Photography (book/ebook)	Books	4	48	50	N	Y	Nice supplement to the manual, but not an end-all	Dennis Curtin has written a great book for the beginning to low intermediate SLR user who wants the most from the Canon Digital Rebel.  The Rebel is a serious digital camera that can use the full line of Canon EF lenses, and many new users may be overwhelmed by some its professional-like features.  Curtin's book is a good guide to learning to use all the features.<br />Unlike the manual, which is small with tiny type, and often tells you how to use something but not why, Curtin's book has many photographic examples showing what happens when you vary some of the settings.  While the book is black-and-white and the quality of the reproduced photos isn't first-rate (the book isn't printed on glossy paper that would have increased the resolution), the included CD has the same pictures in color, showing the differences far more clearly.<br />Curtin also discusses the many add-ons you can buy for the camera and why you might want to use them.<br />I can't give this book 5 stars because it is trying to be too much at once.  It tries to teach basic photographic concepts at the same time as discussing digital photography, and the peculiarities of one particular camera, plus it goes into some highly professional add-ons that the beginner is unlikely to want to buy, let alone use.  (A light tent for photographing small reflective objects?)  And some basic information that was covered in the manual was left out that easily could have been included, such as explaining why the shutter speed priority mode is called Tv (because it stands for Time value).  Also, some of the information is simply wrong, such as Curtin's statement that the user cannot update the firmware.  New firmware is available for the Rebel on Canon's website, complete with directions on how to update it yourself.  Finally, this book could have used one more edit cycle, as obvious typos are a little too frequent.<br />Still recommended for the new Rebel owner who wants to turn off the Idiot Mode button and startusing the camera's full range of abilities.	2003-12-27
US	52827802	R121MSAZAQVTF4	0590846280	451316620	The Adventures of Captain Underpants	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Semper Ubi Sub Ubi	George Beard and Harold Hutchins have a little problem; they just can't help being themselves. And being themselves means pulling pranks at school, writing comic books that make fun of authority figures, and changing the lunch menu marquee from entrees to incredibly rude comments.<br />Captain Underpants is a super-hero they made up in one of their comic books. Through a series of so-ridiculous-no-one-could-believe-it events, their school principal BECOMES Captain Underpants, and it's up to these two class clowns to make sure CU doesn't endanger himself. Incredibly bad puns abound. And inside this book is a copy of the boys' \\"Treehouse Comics\\" showing the original Captain Underpants idea. Bonus: there are plenty of gross jokes that grade-school kids love.<br />This is the sort of book that will get kids to read even if they otherwise hate reading.  My 2 kids (1st & 3rd grade) just love this entire series.  It's obvious that author Dav Pilkey had a lot of fun writing this book.  Highly recommended.	2003-12-16
US	52827802	R1IAZ775KHSK1X	0439417848	615149672	The New Captain Underpants Collection (Books 1-5)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	These books are laugh-out-loud funny!	George Beard and Harold Hutchins have a little problem; they just can't help being themselves.  And being themselves means pulling pranks at school, writing comic books that make fun of authority figures, and changing the lunch menu marquee to make rude comments.  <br />Captain Underpants is a super-hero they made up in one of their comic books.  Through a series of so-ridiculous-no-one-could-believe-it events, their school principal BECOMES Captain Underpants, and it's up to these two class clowns to make sure CU doesn't endanger himself.  Incredibly bad puns abound.  Each book has a copy of one of the boys' \\"Treehouse Comics.\\"  And there are plenty of gross jokes that grade-school kids love.<br />This is the sort of book that will get kids to read even if they otherwise hate reading.  Enjoy!	2003-12-14
US	52827802	R1AKH9VFIS8VGW	0688135765	170623610	Shortcut	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Terrific follow-on for older "Freight Train" fans	Young children may already be familiar with Donald Crews' _Freight Train_.  That book introduced them to their colors and each car in the train.<br />This book is an actual story where real characters have a brush with a freight train.  It's a good follow-on to Freight Train because it introduces the concept of trains being dangerous.  Shortcut begins with seven (older) children playing far from home, who decide to take a shortcut along the train tracks.  As they continue on their walk, the colors hint that danger is coming as the overall tints get darker.  Sure enough, a freight train does pull up, and the children must scramble away to safety.  Readers of Freight Train will recognize Crews' marvelous engine and car renderings even in silhouette.<br />This is a also a great book to use for discussion after reading together.  Did the children make a wise decision to take the shortcut?  Should they have listened to their mother?  What do you think they decided to do after the train incident?  Crews' book teachers safety without preaching, and also hints at the beginnings of independence away from parents.<br />Note: this book has the same children as Crews' book \\"Bigmamma.\\"   While \\"Bigmamma\\" is not a train book, if your child wants to know more about the characters, this might be your next stop.	2003-12-13
US	52827802	R7HSIH60R0X98	059042694X	460243293	Freight train	Books	5	51	53	N	N	Simple, timeless classic for young engineers	With a few words and the most marvellous illustrations, Freight Train will take your child on a magical journey.  Each page features a different part of the freight train in a bright color.  Then the whole train moves through the countryside, faster and faster until the colors start to blur from the speed.<br />Several things make this simple book so effective.  First, the bright colors are identified to help preschoolers learn them.  Next, the different cars on the train are given names, so young engineers will recognize them when they see a real freight train.  They are introduced to the engine and tender (in hard-working black), a hopper car, a tanker car, a flat car, and so on all the way to the red caboose in back.  <br />Best of all, these are not simplistic little kid pictures.  What I think makes this book so appealing is how detailed the train cars are.  Every little rivet and brake hose is visible in these pictures despite the bright colors.  I think our little engineers recognize that this is a REAL TRAIN BOOK even if the words are large and the sentences brief.  I saw my son studying each car so intently, looking at all those little parts.  Crews' drawings are absolutely remarkable, and our kids recognize QUALITY.<br />I can honestly tell you to buy this one sight unseen for your young train-lovers (ages 2-5).	2003-12-13
US	52827802	RHP37UFCGUWM0	0812564669	596423105	Household Gods	Books	4	44	45	N	N	Intriguing story, annoying protagonist	Harry Turtledove and Judith Tarr team up to write a historical novel with an overlay of time-travel atop it.  Late 20th century Los Angeles lawyer Nicole Gunther-Perrin is stressed, stressed, stressed.  She's a divorced mom of young children, her ex traded her in for a younger model, her babysitter quits with no notice, and she's been passed over for partnership in her law firm while a male colleague gets credit for her work.  The firm's senior partner hits on her, then tells her she won't succeed if she's uncooperative.  In short, she is having the Day From Hell.<br />She's also a very unsympathetic character.  She shows little concern with her own children.  She's indifferent to why her sitter quit (sitter's mother in Mexico is sick).  She's resentful toward those who succeed, and fails to see how her attitude and reactions affect how those around her will treat her.  She's a bigot, generalizing about whole classes of people based on the actions of a few.<br />After the Day from Hell, Nicole makes a plea to a plaque of two Roman \\"Household Gods\\" (smaller deities who helped with more trivial matters).  Liber and Libera haven't been worshipped in more than a thousand years, so they honor her request to send her \\"to a simpler time.\\"  And then Turtledove and Tarr toss her into 2nd century Carnuntum, frontier Roman Empire.  This city is near the Danube river (near present day Vienna), but far from Imperial Rome's center.  Her attitudes run smack into her new reality.  Won't drink?  Surprise: you own a tavern!  And a slave to run it!  Oh, and she's a part-time prostitute, and you get to keep the money!  And your kids ignore your requests unless you spank them!<br />Any chance of returning home?  No way.  Everyone's petitioning the gods here, the line is always busy.  Nicole is stuck here as Umma, widowed tavern-keeper.  Life is difficult, painful, and monotonous.  No electricity, little hygiene, no butter, no coffee, no antibiotics, no anasthaesia, no Tampax.  And did Nicole think men were sexist pigs?  Now she's stuck where women are second-class citizens by LAW.  Bad enough?  Okay, the barbarians are invading.  That comes either before or after the plague.<br />The details of day to day life are terrific, from attending Roman-style public baths to dealing with head lice.  The story stays compelling despite Nicole's limitations.  And in the end, while she has become a stronger person, she still isn't someone many of us would care to sit with for a spell.  No matter.  She doesn't end up anywhere as obnoxious as she started, so that's an improvement.<br />While Nicole does learn from her experiences, her intial unpleasantness is hard to get over.  Her ignorance of history and science don't serve her well when she arrives in Carnuntum, either.  Perhaps this is why so many reviewers detest Nicole; the obvious audience for this book are SF fans, and they don't think much of scientific illiterates.  How long does it take Nicole to figure out she ought to boil her water if there isn't any sanitation?  Well, the typical SF reader would be doing so within 15 seconds of smelling the chamber pots dropped into the street.  It takes Nicole about eight months.  But not everyone thinks like an SF reader; there are lots of people like Nicole who manage to earn a law degree without remembering any history or science.  She isn't unrealistic at all, just unlikeable.  That shouldn't be a reason to downgrade the book; the story succeeds despite her.	2003-12-12
US	52827802	R368O76UV7EN7T	073642167X	296303082	The Big Blue: Finding Nemo Reusable Sticker Book	Books	3	24	25	N	N	Nemo stickers, not so reusable	If your kids like stickers, then this is a nice set of stickers from the movie.  But the reusable part is slightly misleading.  After moving them more than twice, they don't stick very well, and they are only reusable if you stick them on the book's specially coated pages.  I've found many kids expect stickers to stay stuck and sometimes get frustrated with this style of book.  What kids love about them is the large, high-quality sticker pictures.  The other Nemo stickers for sale (without books) aren't as nice, so buy more for the stickers.	2003-12-12
US	52827802	R1LJP7A8U2COS1	076530693X	193033614	Gunpowder Empire (Crosstime Traffic)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Turtledove for Beginners	Gunpowder Empire is a new entry for Harry Turtledove; it's a juvenile.  That means the emotions are spelled out, the plot is straightforward, and moral ambiguity isn't dwelled upon.  Our protaganists, 17 year old Jeremy and 16 year old Amanda, are put in danger's way but all is returned to as it was at the novel's start.  This is a young person's introduction to the idea of alternative timelines.<br />The difficulty in reviewing this book is that Turtledove hasn't written juveniles before.  Several reviewers have dug into this one expecting Turtledove's usual writing and were disappointed. But are their low ratings based on the novel's failure to  entertain them (as adults), or the book's failure as a YA/SF tale?<br />I tried to keep the two audiences in mind when coming up with my rating.  Certainly as an adult read, it deserves no more than two stars.  But for a child between 10 and 14, this might be exactly what they'd want.  Hence my four star rating; I'd give it five were I 12 years old, but I'm not.  But I can't give it two, because this book wasn't written for me.  I would dearly love to give it three and half.<br />Another reviewer sees this as a sort of sequel to Household Gods.  It's certainly similar, as far as evoking day to day life in the outskirts of the Roman Empire.  Amanda's struggle with rigid gender roles are reminescent of Nicole's frustrations in Carnuntum.  But Gods took place in the year 170.  GE occurs in an alternate Roman empire (equivalent of our 22nd century) where Dacia (Romania) was conquered, but the Lietuvans (Lithuania) still attempt to win it back every generation.  The technology is at the cannons and muskets stage of development, and isn't moving along very quickly.  Jeremy, Amanda, and their parents are there not only to purchase needed grain for a hungry and crowded world of their own, but to gently nudge this world more toward scientific thinking.  <br />I see this book as more of a Turtledove Pastiche; I found references andlietmotifs of so many of his works I lost count.  Early in the book, when Jeremy is in his turn of the century (22nd century) high school history class, his teacher refers to several alternate worlds that evoke Turtledove's novels.  There is the mandatory phrase \\"I thank you\\" which has worked its way into every one of his novels since The Race attacked in the first WorldWar novel.  The description of Jeremy's father reminds me of HT himself, especially with the bad puns.  The dual point of view harkens back to Ruled Brittania, which also only had two POV characters.  The introduction to society via classroom lessons is straight out of In the Presence of Mine Enemies (one of the alternate worlds alluded to in that very section).  <br />So, is it good pastiche, and is it a good juvenile yarn?  The latter, yes.  The teenaged siblings must handle a city siege, do business with locals while not losing the upper hand, handle obstinate government martinets, and do their best to blend into a very different culture than their own.  Oh yes, all this while their parents are stuck back in their original timeline with all communications cut off.  Turtledove doesn't really explain how crosstime works, so this book isn't pure SF.  Crosstime is a deus ex machina, but showing its results in forestalling climate and governmental collapse is interesting enough.  (Not enough food?  Buy it from an alternate world!  Problem solved!  Drill for oil in people-free worlds, too!)  <br />As to the former, only the most rabid HT fan would even catch the references.  And there are several places where it seems a section got moved into the flow, because the characters would violate their own rules they were determined to follow to the letter.  If the entire city is full of snoops, then they can't speak of their life in the 22nd century at all, or ever use English, yet a page later they would do just that.  There is a section where Jeremy and Amanda becoming not-very-willing informal truce carriers to the invading King, yet it doesn't really change anything; all it did was show Jeremy's disgust toward animal skins.  I didn't take this as moralizing, as other reviewers did; cultural norms do shift.  More of them should have shifted with this one, though. Too often Jeremy's reactions to Polisso remind him of his classmates' actions at Canoga Park High School.  (And about that 22nd Century PowerBook....) Surely something would differentiate them other than an unwillingness to spit pickle seeds on the public square.  Amanda, the more emotionally observant sibling, notices more, especially the entire concept of slavery and how it affects almost every relationship around her.  <br />Remember: this is a juvenile.  Buy it for a young person who might enjoy Turtledove in another 5-10 years.	2003-12-12
US	52827802	RCG979DY3D4Y	0439436907	92712487	Playhouse	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Great book but creepy conclusion	Robert Munsch is a fantastic childrens' author.  His books with illustrator Michael Martchenko are some of the most creative and enjoyable picture books out there.  Unfortunately, this one starts well but doesn't succeed like their other joint productions.<br />In this book, a little girl asks her dad to build her a playhouse, and he does so in grand style.  This playhouse looks like a guest cottage.  But instead of revelling in her storybook wonderland, the girl gets more and more demanding.  Most kids would assume she's going to get a come-uppance for her bratty behavior, but the way it's handled isn't going to make your kids comfortable.<br />Among the \\"more, more\\" things she demands are a play dad and mom for her playhouse.  When her parents finally balk at her suggestion, she just makes them herself.  Her parents do the same thing back to her.  Maybe some kids might find that funny, but I think this is somewhat creepy.  Kids don't want to feel they'll be replaced with a similacrum, even if they started it.  Classic fairy tales of changelings usually had some sort of resolution; this story ends with a swapping rather than having it lead to the adventure attempting to put things right.<br />If a child gets a come-uppance in a kids' book, it shouldn't come at the hands of their own parents, and that's probably why this one just doesn't work.  There's just too much of a moral to this one, and it's not done with his usual light touch. <br />Don't buy this one blind.  Usually you can rely on Munsch and Martchenko, but this one is one of their rare misses.	2003-12-05
US	52827802	RJVVOJSBKXGQC	0439187737	433759950	More Pies!	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Another winner from Munsch/Martchenko	Robert Munsch and Michael Martchenko are a winning team in childrens' books, and this is another one of their terrific partnerships.  Munsch's well-paced tales coupled with Martchenko's vivid and funny artwork encourage preschoolers and young grade schoolers to reread their books many times over.<br />This book features a very hungry little boy, his exasperated mom, and a pie-eating contest.  My kids howled with laughter at how much Samuel tried to eat for breakfast.  The pictures of Samuel out-chowing the three big men are terrific, and the look on his face when he returns home is even better.<br />An outlandish tale in the tradition of Paul Bunyan for preschoolers, complete with a Babe-sized stomach ache, this is a rippin' good yarn.  Stick in two thumbs, pull out two plums, and point them up, way up, for More Pies!	2003-12-05
US	52827802	R3ID7BDCRNVNJU	0060928069	912012941	How Could You Do That?!: The Abdication of Character, Courage, and Conscience	Books	2	21	41	N	N	Laura talks better than she writes	...<br />The best parts of this book are the the transcripts from the radio show. Why? Because when Dr. Schlessinger is behind the mike, she's focussed, clear, chatty, and intriguing. But her writing hits the page with a thud. There's simply no life in it.<br />Her topic is an interesting one, but this book does not succeed in making its point. I would be hard-put to find a reader who enjoyed the book who didn't already listen her show AND was a rabid fan. I'm not discussing whether or not I agree with her position, but how she communicated it.<br />I suspect that she's trying to write a book that has already been written, and she fails in comparison. Spend your money on M. Scott Peck's _People of the Lie_ instead, and listen to the Dr. Laura radio show for the same information. There really isn't anything in the book that she hasn't covered in the show.<br />I read her first book as well and was also disappointed in how poorly the writing compares to her on-air style.	2003-12-05
US	52827802	RVD68PRQ151KT	1550371711	288305728	The Fire Station (Rise and Shine) (Munsch for Kids)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Great story about a very forward girl	This is a great story for kids who love fire engines, kids who are irrepressible, or kids who know another kid who just won't take no for an answer.<br />Michael's friend Sheila won't let the word \\"no\\" stop her; not from Michael, and not from any of the adults.  She wants to see the fire station so she takes Michael in with her and asks for a tour.  The friendly fireman agrees, but then Sheila wants a ride in the fire engine and is told \\"of course not.\\"  So, Sheila gets in the engine anyway (dragging Michael along despite his protests), and wouldn't you know it, the alarm goes off, and the two of them are part of a huge downtown fire detail.<br />Martchenko's vibrant pictures, as in so many books he does with Munsch, are glorious.  And the ending can lead to a great discussion with your child about learning a lesson, and how some people have more trouble doing so than others.  The two children have such definite personalities, Michael the insecure worrier and Sheila clearly on her way to thrill-seeking sports such as glacier skating.  <br />This is one my kids asked me to read them many times over.	2003-12-01
US	52827802	RTJK4X495EJ0G	1587153602	744980196	The Spell of the Black Dagger (Legends of Ethshar)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Well thought-out fantasy tale	Young Tabaea the Thief becomes Tabaea the Empress in this installment of Lawrence Watt-Evans' Ethshar series.  The point of view begins with Tabaea overhearing the secret of wizardry and how to create an athame, the magical dagger that all wizards use to channel their power.  But with no training and no patience, her spell goes awry and her dagger appears worthless.<br />But when she uses it as a weapon, she finds that if it kills someone, she inherits all their power and ability.  So Tabaea goes on a wizard-killing spree to become the strongest of them all, and then installs herself of Empress of Ethshar of the Sands.<br />What LWE does well is show how fantastical elements impact real people, in terms of politics, relationships, and day to day living.  Many of us might have had daydreams where we take over a castle, but which of us thought it through enough to realize that you need the support of all those retainers and servants to keep the place running?  LWE did, and shows the results of an impetuous teenaged monarch with no one to receive her orders.<br />Several reviewers mentioned the switching point of view between Tabaea and Lady Sarai, who investigates the serial murders.  I agree the book would have been more effective if LWE stuck with one or the other, or at least not told us so much of Tabaea's doings in advance of Sarai's discovering them.<br />Note: this book is contemperaneous with Watt-Evans new Ethshar novel, _Ithanalin's Restoration_.  However, as with most of the Ethshar series, they stand alone well and can be read in any order.	2003-12-01
US	52827802	R230B6DP80S63M	0590341979	559791330	Andrew's Loose Tooth	Books	5	2	4	N	N	My kids love this book!	Robert Munsch's amusing look at a boy's trouble with a loose tooth is a big favorite at our house.  While it begins with a real situation any child with a loose tooth can understand (I can't eat my apple!), the story gets more and more ridiculous.  Most kids know that while a trip to the dentist might be scary, no dentist is going to tie his tooth to a car and drive away.  (And even if one did, the results are just hysterical.)<br />My kids also love Michael Martchenko's detailed and funny illustrations, from the little sister on the toy telephone calling the dentist (while both parents do so on two different phones), to the tooth fairy on the heavily chromed motorcycle.<br />Kids enjoy funny stories, especially about growing-up issues like losing a tooth.  I haven't met a kid yet who didn't enjoy this one.	2003-12-01
US	52827802	R2IQAN5GK4W12V	0312864833	143918115	The Crystal City (Tales of Alvin Maker, Book 6)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Close but no City	This is the sixth book in the ingenious Alvin Maker series.  In this alternate North America of the 1850s, folk magics work.  Blacks make charms from personal items, Reds use the forces of nature, and Whites have knacks; inborn magical talents.  Alvin Maker, born Alvin Miller and known as Alvin Smith, is the seventh son of a seventh son and was expected to have an ususually strong knack.  He is even stronger than that: apprenticed as a blacksmith, he discovers he has the powers of Maker, one who understands the essences of all things and can manipulate them.  Yet as this book begins, Alvin is despairing again, because despite his awesome powers, he was unable to save he prematurely born child.<br />If you're reading these book reviews, there's an excellent chance that you've read books 1-5 already, and want to know whether this book finally hits the money note.  Does Alvin finally get to build his Crystal City?  Does he at least figure out how he will do it, or where, or with whose help?  And is this book worth reading?<br />If you've read the other five books, yes, you should get this one.  It has much more plot and character development than the fifth book, Heartfire.  In the last volume, Alvin dithered and fretted about how he was going to build his city, but didn't find himself any closer to his goal; he didn't even find himself closer to beginning it.  In Crystal City, Alvin begins on another vague errand, sent by his future-seeing wife who is doing her best to avoid an all-out war she sees in almost every possible path.<br />Alvin meets two of Peggy's abolitionist friends in Neuva Barcelona, the unfortunately named Moose and Squirrel.  (This odd reference to Rocky and Bullwinkle is merely another of Card's fans on his Hatrack River discussion group; some of the other books suffered by including characters from the bulletin board whether or not they advanced the plot.)  And once again, Alvin's attempt to improve things makes them worse.  By curing an old womandying from yellow fever, Alvin finds the entire city now under threat from the plague.  And by keeping Moose, Squirrel and their 55 children (of various races, their household is an illegal school for blacks so they follow the letter of the law by not allowing the children to recite their lessons aloud) healthy while all around them are dying, their neighbors pay more attention to the unusual domecile.<br />Several characters from the previous books return, including Tenskwa-Tawa (the Red Prophet of volume 2), Jim Bowie and Steve Austin, and Verily Cooper.  Calvin reappears in Barcy, still seething with resentment toward his older brother.  Arthur Stuart is growing into a man and discovering his abilities are more than anyone expected from him.  Some strong new characters develop in this work, especially La Tia, a voodoo queen with powers rivalling his own, who gives Alvin a much more ambitious mission than he ever expected.  <br />We also meet this universe's Abraham Lincoln, but I think that was not an effective device.  Most charcters from Alvin's part of the world take a new last name when they enter a profession, yet the historical characters Lincoln, Bowie and Austin did not.  It would have been better if they had more appropriate monickers, and let us figure out who they were supposed to be (I'm thinking of Turtledove's alternate America where the CSA remains a separate country; many of his historical cameos are not fully identified).<br />This is clearly not the last book of the series, but we are getting closer to the end.  Alvin learns more about himself, his abilities and limits, and how to teach others to work toward a common goal.  Yet the book ends with plenty of unresolved familial and political tensions, so there's at least another novel waiting.  It would be appropriate to finish this series about a seventh son of a seventh son with book... seven.	2003-11-27
US	52827802	R3M86HE7SPFXRE	0765340550	665763998	Ithanalin's Restoration (Legends of Ethshar)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Amusing magical romp	The eighth of Watt-Evans' Ethshar novels, Ithanalin's Restoration takes place concurrently with _The Spell of the Black Dagger_.  No knowledge of any of the other books is needed to enjoy this tale, as the Ethshar novels take place at different times and most of them stand alone nicely.  The events in Black Dagger occur in a different city and while they upset most of the peripheral characters in this book, not knowing all the details won't impact your enjoyment of this lighthearted fantasy.<br />Kilisha is a seventeen-year-old apprentice wizard to Ithanalin the Wise, an expert in animation spells.  With just one more year to go in her apprenticeship, she is frustrated at how little wizardry she's been taught, and frets that she's in no condition to begin the next stage of her career, as a journeyman wizard.  Her master is kind but distracted, often forgetting to teach her all the common knowledge behind each spell, and he's often busy producing spells for his paying customers.  That often leaves Kilisha as little more than an in-home baby-sitter and servant for Ithanalin's wife Yara.<br />With her frustration and fear growing, Kilisha demands that her master start teaching her the spells his customers pay for, and this time he agrees.  On an errand to collect the blood of a grey cat (wizardry often requires odd materials), she returns hours later to find Ithanalin frozen in place, and all the parlor furniture missing.  She soon discovers that his animating spell went very wrong when he tripped, spilled the magical goo, and animated several pieces of furniture with his own essence.  And the furniture ran out the door when it was opened by a persistant tax-collector.<br />Kilisha, armed with few practical spells and missing big chunks of background knowledge, finds herself the only one who can set things right.  The senior wizards are preoccupied with mass murder of wizards in Ethshar of the Sands (these events covered in Black Dagger) and have no time for an apprentice with spells gone awry.  She must find, collect, and bring back the escaping furniture and learn enough magic to prevent their wandering again.  On top of that, some of Ithanalin's essence transferred to a spriggen, a magical pest attracted to wizardry; spriggens cannot be held by any locks or bonds.  Then she must master a new spell to bring Ithanalin back to his normal self.  And to do so, she must learn a new tack toward problem solving, as Kilisha is a feet-first woman in a look-before-you-leap profession.<br />This is a fun read with a satisfying ending, perfect for vacation and holiday amusement.	2003-11-27
US	52827802	R1HOEYO6R5847	0451529022	553324409	In the Presence of Mine Enemies (Turtledove, Harry)	Books	5	42	49	N	N	The eighty year Reich	When reading reviews of any Harry Turtledove book, it's difficult to miss the phrase \\"The Master of Alternate History.\\"  Once again, Turtledove shows us why that label keeps getting pinned on.  _In the Presence of Mine Enemies_ is a new standalone book, from a writer who specializes in multivolume series.  And it is his most personal work yet.  I had the priviledge to meet Turtledove at WorldCon 2002 in San Jose, and he described this upcoming novel in very emotional terms.  Another fan seemed distinterested, and asked when one of his series would be returned to, and Turtledove went on to explain that given his family's history, this work compelled him to finish it.  The Master of Alternate History brings us the eightieth year of the German Reich, and no one will accuse him of stealing anything from Phillip K. Dick's _The Man in the High Castle_.  This work is clearly Turtledove's own.<br />An expansion of a novella of the same name, most of the first chapter is identical to its roots.  We meet Heinrich Gimpel, who works in the army's budget analysis unit.  His job is to predict whether the United States will pay all its tribute, and with how much fuss.  Since the Oberkommando der Wehrmacht has multiple bases occupying the US, these calculations will determine whether panzers roll.  His office mate, Willi Deutsch, performs a similar job, but while Heinrich keeps his head down and revels in calculations, Willi is loud, boisterous, and loves the ladies.<br />We'll meet many more people over the course of the book; Walter and Esther Stutzman; he's a software developer for Zeiss (which is Microsoft and Intel in one in this timeline), she's a part-time receptionist for a pediatrician.  Susanna Weiss, an unmarried professor of Medieval English in a \\"kueche, kirch, kinder\\" world; and the Gimpel and Stutzman children.  As in most Turtledove novels, there are several viewpoint characters.  In this one, the rotating point of view moves among six people, but they all have thesame secret: right in Berlin, the capital of the German empire, all are secretly Jews.  Hidden in plain sight by their quietude, their fitting in, and by Walter Stutzman's hacking the geneological records database, their biggest fear is what their children will do when they are old enough to learn who they really are.<br />Did I mention how personal a story this is for Turtledove?  Heinrich Gimpel clearly IS Harry Turtledove.  Gimpel means \\"bullfinch\\" (Turtledove already writes historical novels under the German equivalent Turteltaub).  Heinrich's wife is the former Lise Frank; Harry's wife is named Laura Frankos.  Both couples have three daughters.  And Heinrich, just like Ealstan in Derlavai, and so many other characters in his other novels, always does an excellent job, and values rational thought over emotional reactions.  Lise is just as level-headed, but more empathetic, while oldest daughter Alicia is exactly like her dad.  And the book begins with Alicia, at age ten, discovering that most of what she's learned in school is a complete lie.<br />Gimpel is one of those characters who cannot stay out of trouble no matter how hard he tries to.  Willi Deutsch's wife Erika is determined to have an affair with Heinrich, no matter how often he refuses.  Erika and her husband's marital spats are destined to splatter all over Gimpel.  Heinrich also has his work profile raised uncomfortably high when the new Fuhrer seeks him out to decide whether to remove more German troops from the US.  Everyone wants to talk politics with him, while all he wants to do is keep from being noticed.<br />We learn plenty about the German Reich through Alicia Gimpel.  The only young viewpoint character, we overhear her school lessons in politics, geography, and anthropology (Aryan vs. Untermann).  She observes that some of her classmates would do better at school if they didn't spend all their time watching the \\"televisor.\\"  (And even a frequently used wooden paddle on the butt doesn't change their actions.)  Politics are a constant thrum throughout the novel.  While this society was set up for leaders to lead and everyone else to cheerfully obey, the new Fuhrer is determined to change this.  So what begins as a frightening analog of 21st century USA, with computers, television ads, and evening newscasts, soon morphs into 1989-91 Russia.  Leader Buckliger begins questioning how things were always done, which threatens some and excites most others.<br />Reading any Turtledove novel always leads to bad puns and name remapping.  The old fuhrer is named Kurt Haldweim, get it?  The new fuhrer is named Buckliger, which means \\"hunchback.\\"  And since the latter half of the book was so suggetive of Moscow in 1991, I looked up hunchback in Russian; it's \\"gorbin.\\"  (Gorbachov + Putin?)  While I can't equate the names Stolle and Yeltsin, it's pretty clear the mayor of Berlin is modeled after the one from Moscow. <br />Despite the too-rigid mapping of '91 Moscow to 2003 Berlin, this book is incredibly nuanced and detailed.  The head of the KGB, whoops, the SS, will deal with a very determined hacker.  Gimpel and his children are accused of being Jews and become unwilling guests of the Security Police.  Offhand comments of death and destruction rained down on the US, Poland, Russia, and many other lands are far more chilling than many battle scenes could be.  Warsaw-style ghettoes in New York and Los Angeles, mentioned in the same manner, also brought a shiver.<br />Read, enjoy, and be very glad for what did not happen.	2003-11-10
US	52827802	R1FG9QNQVT8I70	0312971222	370258587	Dr. Laura: The Unauthorized Biography	Books	4	23	32	N	N	A blockbuster in '98, now woefully out of date	When this book was written, Dr. Laura was a rising radio star.  Schlessinger's show was still on its way to a zenith of 470 radio stations across the United States and Canada.  Controversies had erupted here and there, but nothing that stayed on national radar.  The only place those sorts of things were discussed was the Usenet newsgroup alt.radio.talk.dr-laura (still going strong after 7 years).  Leslie Bennetts had written a critical piece in Vanity Fair, and other cover stories also raised eyebrows with suggestions that the Queen of Preach, Teach, and Nag did not Do As She Said.<br />The Bane bio, written without any contact with Schlessinger or her husband, brought in all this backstory.  Bane met with plenty of Schlessinger's former colleagues who were willing to complain about their run-ins with Schlessinger.  The result paints a very disturbing picture of the woman who had the second biggest radio audience after Rush Limbaugh.  Read the book for some fascinating insight into Dr. Laura Schlessinger, but realize that the juiciest bits happened well after the book went to press.	2003-11-03
US	52827802	R2S8SN97MDU01A	0060976497	143285820	Ten Stupid Things Women Do to Mess Up Their Lives	Books	4	21	29	N	N	Schlessinger's first, and best book	Dr. Laura Schlessinger was a radio powerhouse.  Her talk show was heard coast to coast in the US and Canada, on as many as 470 radio stations.  At one point, over 10,000 callers per hour tried her 1-800-DRLAURA number in an attempt to get some of her tough-talking advice.  This book, her first, was written just as The Dr. Laura Show had gone national, and it shared her pragmatic cut-through-the-bull viewpoint with a wider audience.<br />What a difference a few years make.  Schlessinger became a Conservative Jew, then an Orthodox Jew, and began following the same talking points heard on Rush Limbaugh and in WorldNetDaily. Today, the Dr. Laura show is on the decline.  Fewer than 250 stations still carry it, and she is absent in several large markets such as New York, Chicago, and Baltimore.  Her ill-fated attempt to move onto television was an utter failure, both critically and in ratings.  Many controversies brewed, where she would attack yet another group and then be forced by her corporate bosses to issue a clenched-teeth denial.  So it's interesting to reread this work from 1994, when Schlessinger's star was still rising.  The first of many books by the onetime Queen of Rightwing Radio, it remains the her best both for what it is and what it is not.<br />Let's keep one thing clear: her radio show is still on the air because it remains compelling.  Agree with her or not, the callers' problems are fascinating.  While her advice may be spot on or completely off-target, it's hard to switch her off.  But Schlessinger has difficulty maintaining radio's improvisational tone in an advice book, because the problems were carefully selected, rather than snagged from several random calls.  And despite her having the luxury to choose the issues supporting her points, her humor often falls flat. (\\"Is a Woman just a Wo- Wo- Wo- on a man?\\" is one of her chapter headings.  They get worse.)  This is more forgivable during a live broadcast, yet it is her quickness on air that made her show worth listening to.<br />Ten Stupid Things' strength is in how Schlessinger described the many ways her callers made themselves unhappy.  We all know women who feel they are nothing without a man (Stupid Attachment), or behaved like a fool while dating (Stupid Courtship), or who believed their love could conquer a man's rotten behavior (Stupid Devotion).  The anecdotes are on target, as compelling as the calls that made it on air during the glory days of Dr. Laura.<br />Another reason this is her best book is for the mistakes it doesn't make.  Written before Schlessinger's violent swing to the political right, her only agenda here (other than promoting her show) is helping her female audience avoid bad relationships that impact future generations.  Refreshingly free of neocon rhetoric, it lacks later books' attacks on working moms, second wives, or teenaged girls with bared midriffs.  Secular lifestyles are not the poison in the Wellspring of Family Values, as Schlessinger will inform us subsequently.  Nor are we assaulted by her moral superiority via her religious restraint (look ahead to How Could You Do That?! and The Ten Commandments if you find yourself in need of abasement).   This one of her few books that isn't a minefield of unintentional humor to those of us who read Vickie L. Bane's unauthorized biography, which was unfortunately published before the 1998 naked pictures on the Internet incident.<br />This book reminds me of why her show was so fresh and exciting in 1995: a feminist who had practical reasons why living together wasn't in women's best interest (this book has a whole chapter on Stupid Cohabitation); a modern, educated advisor who could convince callers that sex outside marriage hurts women more than men (Stupid Passion); a concerned radio show host who had the interests of kids foremost (Stupid Conception and Stupid Subjugation).  The mix of modern science and traditional values was different, and Schlessinger's straightforward approach made it work far more effectively than the later religious rants and browbeating.<br />It's a pity that today's show no longer reads like this book (although Ten Stupid Things was never as good as the 1995-96 radio show).  While the book was quite successful, and the show became successful, then Schlessinger choked on her own hubris.  Unfortunately she never realized her errors and returned to her earlier roots, which is why you will not find a work this good among her other books.  <br />Today Schlessinger still broadcasts her three-hours-a-day, five-days-a-week program, but has announced she is no longer an Orthodox Jew (what kind of a Jew she is she doesn't wish to inform us, but it's the kind who appears live on Yom Kippur).  Read Ten Stupid Things not only for her good advice, but as a window to a kinder, gentler Laura Schlessinger.	2003-11-03
US	52827802	R1FBU8WLX9W19L	0345405609	412492536	American Front (The Great War, Book 1)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Mustard Gas on the Mississippi	It's most unquiet on the Western Front... The Great War fought on American soil.  Harry Turtledove has written a spectacular work of alternate history.<br />Great War: American Front is the first of three books in a trilogy, but you really must read How Few Remain beforehand.  Go ahead, I'll wait.  How Few Remain (HFR) gives the backstory: Confederate States defeat the USA in 1862 by not losing critical battle plans, and in 1881 the USA itches for a rematch, only to lose again.  By 1911 the USA and CSA have been seperate countries for 50 years, with plenty of resentment.  The USA, having been defeated twice, is not the economic powerhouse it became in our timeline.<br />Tensions mount between the two countries and their allies.  CSA is allied with England and France, USA with Germany.  The European struggle is offstage, as American Front covers the war from multiple viewpoints in North America.  British Canada is invaded by the USA and becomes Occupied territory; one family secretly resists, another slowly accepts their new overlords.  Utah, still a US territory because the government is still fighting the Mormons, who are being supplied with weapons from the CSA.  And in the CSA, Marxism is being taught... among the ex-slaves, and the USA is running weapons to them!  General Custer is observed through the eyes of his long-suffering aide, take a ride on a CSA submarine, observe enemy intelligence in a Washington DC coffeehouse.  <br />Multiple viewpoints, numerous agendas, plenty of intrigue, and laughably bad sex scenes!  What more could anyone want?  And if you enjoy this book, there are two more in the Great War series, followed by three more in the American Empire series, leading up to the forthcoming American World War II!	2003-11-02
US	52827802	R3L0Q6QGLD6MAG	0345406141	426738597	How Few Remain (Southern Victory)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	One of Turtledove's best	Harry Turtledove writes many different types of alternate history, some mixed with science fiction (Worldwar series, The Guns of the South), some with a fantasy element (Darkness series, Detina series).  How Few Remain is straight alternative history; Turtledove changed one event, and then from this &quot;branching point&quot; a different world emerges.  In this book, the Confederate States of America defeated the USA because a courier did not drop secret battle plans (as happened in our timeline).  The CSA is a nation in its own right.  20 years later, the USA still seethes from their crushing defeat and economic downturn, and attempts to remake the Union again.<br />Using multiple viewpoints in short vignettes, similar to John Brunner's novels or John de los Passos' USA, Turtledove evokes the moods of different groups and geographies.  And as in Worldwar, Turtledove introduces famous people whose lives have changed because their history diverged.  Thus Abraham Lincoln lives past 1865 (our 4-year Civil war ended sooner in this timeline, with a different victor), but is disgraced for losing the war, and finds himself extolling the virtues of socialism.  Teddy Roosevelt finds an opportunity to drum up a volunteer army at age 21, fighting the Brits in Western Canada.<br />Political intrigue and diplomatic tangles abound.  The CSA aligns with England and France, while the USA forms a partnership with Germany.  But the US is surrounded by enemies, with British Canada to the North, and the CSA with its new Pacific ports (having purchased two provinces from the Empire of Mexico).  The USA is spoiling for a rematch, and President James G. Blaine, the first Republican elected since Lincoln, intends to avenge the loss of the Southern States.<br />How Few Remain is the springboard for Turtledove's Great War series, with a USA/CSA version of World War I thirty years later.  These are followed by the American Empire series of the 1920s and 1930s, with the CSA playing the role of Germany in our timeline.    While these books are enjoyable, none of them compares with the freshness and the fullness of HFR.<br />Several critics of Turtledove's novels, such as the six books in the two series mentioned above, note they are painted with too broad a brush, and painted by the numbers.  This novel transcends the others' failings, though, by evoking a haunting sense of defeat and despair in his descriptions of the defeated North.	2003-11-02
US	52827802	RVGDGUZFC8WHK	0743216768	499277831	The Measure of All Things: The Seven-Year Odyssey and Hidden Error That Transformed the World	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Best Meter Forward	This is a fascinating book!  Ken Alder covers the birth of the metric system, but manages to work in a marvelous overview of measurement, history of science, philosophy, politics, and a front-row seat at the French Revolution.  While the rationalists wanted a new unit of measurement based on the earth itself, politics in government and among the thinkers (savants) kept derailing the project.  The survey of the Paris Meridian, expected to take a few months, ended up taking seven years due to war, plague, inflation, politics, fear, jealousy, rivalry, insular business practices, and despondency.<br />Alder introduces us to the two men driving the survey, Delambre and Mechain, and describes all the problems preventing a quick measurement from Dunkirk to Barcelona.  He covers the multitude of measurement units, different in each city or town, and even varying by profession, that led to the demand for standard measures.  Yet this &quot;rational&quot; way meant uprooting existing social contracts, such as the &quot;just price&quot; of a product that reflected not only costs, but the relationships between customer and vendor, or lord and peasant.  Fields were measured not by area but in how long it took to plow them or how many bushels of seed they required.  Lords actually owned reference measurement units and received royalties when they were copied.  Differing units kept outsiders from taking advantage of a town's economy.  Delambra and Mechain's project would upset all this, and not everyone supporting the Revolution wanted to eliminate these old ways.<br />This is a book not only about how we measure and why, not only about Delambre and Mechain's arduous and separate journeys through France, or the political fallout over adoption of the metric system, but also the change in philosophy that turned savants into scientists and forced them to deal with the concept of error.  Mechain could not accept that his meticulous work was &quot;wrong&quot; so he suppressed his results, but this drove him to worse than distraction.  Delambre only found out the truth upon Mechain's death, for the latter would not part with his raw data.  And Alder achieves a coup in discovering Delambre's correspondence and notes on the whole matter, including the resultant meter that wasn't as accurate as advertised.<br />Informative, wide-ranging, and evocative, a terrific addition to your science shelf.	2003-10-07
US	52827802	R1SYIDCN2XG5A	0060512601	875968884	Ten Stupid Things Couples Do to Mess Up Their Relationships	Books	2	82	135	N	N	Some of her listeners have good advice to share	Laura Schlessinger's best book remains her first, _Ten Stupid Things Women Do to Mess Up Their Relationships_.  Her next book in that vein was for men, yet it lacked both the snap and the balance of her first advice book.  By the time Ten for Men was published, Schlessinger had hitched her wagon to the conservative multiverse, and her no-nonsense viewpoint began unravelling.<br />This latest work in her Ten Stupid Series, for couples, is heavy on the reader replies and light on Schlessinger's original deft touch.  While easy to read, the comments are often at odds with each other, and it appears Schlessinger didn't read them through enough to notice how they weakened her own thrust.  Furthermore, little of the advice in this book on relationships moves beyond what was covered in the Women and Men books.  Tolstoy observed more than a century ago that unhappy families are each unhappy in their own manner, yet Schlessinger doesn't allow more than Ten Stupid failings per book, and she is reusing a few.<br />Since this book is thus more of an anthology than her own original work, kind of a Ten Stupid Kinds of Chicken Soup for the Messed-Up Soul, for it to succeed its editor needed a consistent series of tales culminating in each chapter's lesson.  But some of the reader contributions don't fit under the chapter heading and only seem to be there so one chapter wasn't three times longer than another.  And is Stupid Power (never backing down, never apologizing) really a different problem than Stupid Excuses (never taking responsibility)?  Aren't both merely defense mechanisms?  What really is the difference between Stupid Egotism and Stupid Happiness?  The readers certainly describe these similar topics using similar terms.  One almost wonders if some of the contributors had a name-change moving into a new chapter.<br />Finally, no review of a Laura Schlessinger book would be complete without mentioning her tendency to politicize an advice manual.  It isn't enough that a caller is irresponsible; she is irresponsibile because she's a liberal, or a feminist, or was corrupted by the public school system and is too lazy to take her kids out and put them in Fine Religious Private Schools.  Long-time observers of Schlessinger's radio show have noted that if a call (or caller) upsets her, there's probably some personal history involved, and some of the political rants seem to spin off messages from readers who struck too close to home.  Second wife resentful of husband's devotion to children of first wife?  Selfish brat (but no mention of how Laura ignored her husband's three children by his first wife after stealing him away).  Husband uninterested in attending church with his wife?  Lazy liberal (but no mention of her path into Judaism without her husband, then Orthodox Judaism with, only to desert again in summer 2003).  Stupid hobbies or liaisons endangering the marriage?  Not okay for her callers, but okay for her, regaling her listeners with sailboat race stories featuring Laura and an all-male crew.  Thus, any book by Schlessinger always abounds with unintentional humor for the well-informed Lauralogist, but the casual reader will miss such gems.<br />This book, having fewer words by Schlessinger than her others, thus doesn't stay focussed on political rants, and the letters do offer some useful suggestions.  However, uneveness and poor focus mean it's still not that good a book, and fans of her seminal 10 Stupid Things Women Do will be disappointed.	2003-10-03
US	52827802	R3SWJQ4BEIEHDF	0385509510	418900469	Under the Banner of Heaven: A Story of Violent Faith	Books	5	873	988	N	N	Brilliant synthesis of history, religion, and abuse	Jon Krakauer admits he has become obsessed with extremes.  It takes one form of extremism to go on an Everest climb, as he shows with \\"Into Thin Air.\\"  Now he returns to the West of his youth.  Yet this is not the book he planned to write.  Krakauer admits he wanted to describe how today's LDS Church, with their clean-cut, do-good approach, is at odds with its founding history.<br />Instead, he decided to write about fundamentalist Mormons.  While the LDS Church declared polygamy illegal in 1890, it took time for the practice to end in the official church.  Those who would not accept the changes continued polygamy, with groups moving to Mexico and Canada.  And there are those who continue this practice today.  Krakauer is determined to understand how this came to be.  In order to do this, he must retell the history of the Church of Jesus Christ of the Latter-Day Saints.<br />While polygamy is no longer accepted by the current LDS authorities, the average Mormon seems less inclined to stamp it out.  Krakauer shows several cases of gung-go district attorneys who go after polygamous families, and how these white knights are subsequently removed from office in the next election.  He introduces us to small towns where everything and everyone in it answers to one man, the head of the Fundamentalist LDS church (FLDS).  All property is owned by their church's corporation.  And the girls are married by age 14.  Krakauer finds many of them married to men who are already related to them, and at least a generation older.  Women are seen as transferrable property, with marriages cancelled should any church member run afoul of the church leader.<br />And remember Elizabeth Smart?  Here was a case of a modern Mormon family running into another FLDS wanna-be.  Krakauer contrasts her case with another 14-year-old, a FLDS community member, who was hidden in another FLDS community when her sister tried to rescue her from an early marriage she didn't want.  The difference between the media treatment of the two kidnap victims is horrifying.<br />All this is merely background for a shocking murder case, where two LDS members who moved toward FLDS decided to kill their sister-in-law for being a bad influence, and her two-year-old as well.  Both men insisted they were acting on revelations from God.  Krakauer turns this into the Court's unease with discussions of religious belief and sanity.<br />The negative reviews of this book appear to come from LDS members who are unhappy with Krakauer's history of their church.  It's a pity they missed his important points on the danger of revealed religion (where anyone can justify anything), or the welfare fraud committed by FLDS communities (subsequent wives declare themselves single parents and don't identify the father, while living in a trailer in his backyard), or the uneasy relationship between mainline Mormons and latter-day polygamists.  It's a shame they are unwilling to look at their own church's rapidly mutating scriptures, where Krakauer shows how doctrinal racism was not removed from church teachings until the 1970s.  One might ask how many of them actually read the book rather than took the advice of their stake president to publicly condemn it.<br />Read it for yourself, then let us know.  It is a fascinating, disturbing, insightful, and important book.	2003-09-26
US	52827802	R22CFNI33NEAH5	0425190145	948909385	Death Gets a Time-Out (Mommy-Track Mysteries)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Time Out for a Great Book!	In _Death Gets a Time-Out_, Ayelet Waldman has finally hit her stride as a mystery writer.  Her first book introduced mommy-track nosy sleuth Juliet Applebaum, featuring snappy dialogue, good intial scene-setting, but ultimately it didn't deliver in either plot or as a mystery.  The second book well-captured the haze of the new mom, but when we found out whodunit, I had too many flashbacks to the first book.  Book three broke chose a new type of murderer but lacked a sense of place and wasn't consistent in describing Juliet's kids.<br />Here, she did everything right.  If you enjoyed any of Waldman's three previous &quot;Mommy-track Mysteries&quot; then _Time-Out_ will delight you because it has it all; twisty plot strands that keep raising more and more questions, plenty of suspects and their deliberate misinformation.  The characterization that made the first book so fresh, Juliet's relationship with her family and her musings on how she's not a mom who Does It All, is kept going in almost every chapter.  And Waldman finally did some homework on Life in LA this time; Juliet appears to live there in this book.  I loved the scene where she's on her cell phone to another cell phone and notices her caller's freeway is moving faster.  I hope she gets a better copy editor to catch mistakes like &quot;Cedar's Sinai&quot; which show she doesn't live there or Elect X for &quot;City Counsel&quot; signs that meant too much time in court instead of  on the neighborhood streets.  This book is too good to have silliness like that staining it.<br />Juliet's racking up the miles on the mom-mobile, driving from a recovery center for wealthy addicts to a religious center based on astrology, with stops in on her movie-star friend whose staff wear khakis.  It was also nice to get to know her partner Al better in this book.  So: does Juliet have any friends that carry over from book to book?  Is this a lack in her character?  Most moms find friendship invaluable, and Juliet is drivinga carpool, so why do we never meet the kids or their parents?  That's about the only thing lacking from Time-Out, and it probably would have made more sense to remove the carpool reference rather than have the rest of us moms wonder about it. After all, her kids go to two different schools, that could make carpooling difficult (or it would make it mandatory!)  Having Juliet try to escape a mom who wants to know everything her perschooler said in Juliet's car while Juliet needs to go chase some bad guys would be the extra frosting on this delicious sundae of a book.	2003-08-13
US	52827802	R1PO7CSXYANOF2	034544423X	851987429	American Empire: The Victorious Opposition	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Too fast, too shallow	Let me preface this review with praises to Harry Turtledove: the man is an alternate history genuis.  He writes books that change this event or that assumption, and fills in what could have happened instead, using research, intelligence, humor, and plenty of interesting characters.  I still believe his best book was the very wellspring that brought us this one, the haunting \\"How Few Remain.\\"  HFR set the stage for a seperate Confederate States of America that defeats the USA and serves as both enemy and irritant to their defeated neighbor to the north.  The book takes place in the 1880s where an attempt to recapture the CSA ultimately fails.<br />The three books following HFR are the three \\"The Great War\\" series, describing a North American-based WWI between the CSA and its allies Britain and France, and the USA allied with Germany.  This book is the third in the \\"American Empire\\" series.  \\"Blood & Iron\\" follows the aftermath of the Great War complete with 1920s-style inflation and the rise of a demagogue.  \\"The Center Cannot Hold\\" continues the tale, and \\"The Victorious Opposition\\" leads us to the brink of WWII, complete with a June 22, 1941 invasion.<br />While the last date was a slavish following of our timeline, many other events varied.  The Republican party died out after the USA's defeat in 1865, and the major US parties are the Democrats and... the Socialists.  During the Great War series there is a failed Communist uprising... by CSA blacks (closer to 1905 than 1917).  The backstory leading up to this book is so rich with detail that it would be foolish to start with Victorious; it's the third book in a series but really the seventh in the HFR timeline.<br />And the question is what do you get if you read the previous six books and open up this one?  I'm left with the same feeling from \\"The Center Cannot Hold,\\" namely vertigo from how quickly this novel moves along.  If I went back and dated each section of this book, I would expect that most of them are one to three months apart.  Turtledove rotates through his major characters such that we might not hear from the same one more than once a \\"year\\" or even longer.<br />Unlike \\"Center,\\" Turtledove kills off three important people in this work, and moves their viewpoint to a descendent.  Just as Arthur McGregor died and we began to follow daughter Mary, new viewpoints emerge with character deaths here.  I'll not give away any surprises but I was disappointed that the new characters weren't more different from their predecessors.<br />The biggest flaw with \\"Victorious\\" is one I alluded to in the first paragraph: the slavish devotion to our timeline.  Not only is an invasion modeled after Hitler's invasion of Russia, but so are far too many other events.  While the Socialists and Democrats move in and out of power (unlike Roosevelt's 4-term presidency), other events stick far too close to reality.  CSA is Germany, President Jake Featherstone is Hitler, and the coming Holocaust will be against the blacks.  In 1936, the CSA hosts the Olympics in Richmond, and Featherstone has his Freedom Party put their good manners on until the last foreigner leaves.  The USA serves several roles, as Russia, as France, as England.  It attempts to pacify Occupied Canada (terrority won from England and France during WWI) without complete success.<br />The other lack is character growth.  Lucien still drinks applejack and cracks dry one-liners, Cincinnatus still fears Covington, Kentucky but can't stay away, and Anne Colleton trusts and loves no one.  Any change in the characters is due to plot development rather than personal growth or failure, with the exception of Jonathan Moss.  He turns into the USA's answer to Arthur McGregor, and for much the same reason (and I suppose it's still due to plot development).<br />If you've stuck with the series this long, see it through, but I found this one the equivalent of Welch's after drinking claret.	2003-07-29
US	52827802	RTWD4WQFKH1TL	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Best One Yet!	Haven't read the latest installment of Harry Potter yet?  What are you waiting for?  This one really was worth the wait.  Rowling brings us much more of Harry's world beyond Hogwarts.  In fact he doesn't even make it to Hogwarts in the first 150 pages, because he's too busy worrying about Voldemort's return, dealing with yet another attempt on his life, and then facing a kangaroo court at the Ministry of Magic.  While he discovers what the Order of the Phoenix is, and meets most of the members, they keep all their plans to defeat Voldemort secret from Harry.  Even when he returns to beloved Hogwarts, further changes await.<br />The worst one is this year's new Defense Against the Dark Arts professor.  This job is Hogwarts' answer to Spinal Tap's drummer or South Park's Kenny; it's going to end up badly, but you want to see how.  Internal changes wrack Harry as well.  He is now 15, and acting it.  A vicious gossip campaign, pushed along by The Daily Prophet, paints Harry as a tale-teller and unstable, and his hormones aren't helping him demonstrate otherwise.  Harry will also discover that adults aren't always reliable even when they are on his side.  He also learns why Professor Snape dislikes him so much, but finding out why is painful for both Harry and the reader.<br />Others at Hogwarts develop as well.  Ron finally comes out from the shadows of his many brothers (one of them has gone a very different route from the rest of the family).  Harry has to deal with Ron's challenges, and learn to support him rather than vice versa.  Ron's twin brothers make some major life decisions as well, and his younger sister proves more than a dazed schoolgirl.  And amid all of this, the fifth-year students must prepare for their OWLs (Ordinary Wizarding Levels) which will determine what career paths they can work toward.<br />Harry must contend with all this change along with a mostly absent Dumbledore, an injured Hagrid, a date with Cho Chang, and a High Inquisitor who has full support of Minister Fudge.  Tons of stuff going on, plenty to learn, experience, and enjoy.  Get it today!	2003-06-28
US	52827802	R1K5F4O9JRXV3E	060960502X	476038738	Haikus for Jews: For You, a Little Wisdom	Books	5	8	8	N	N	From this you laugh?	David Bader has come up with a masterful concept: combine the poetic form of Japanese Haiku with kvetchy Jewish plaint.  And bubule, it works.<br />The book is best savored like bonbons, just a few at a time.  Some are wry, some confirm the American Jewish experience, and some are laugh-out-loud funny; even my shaygitz husband completely lost it with: <br />Today I am a <br />man.  Tomorrow I return <br />to the seventh grade.<br />I got it as a birthday gift and I LOVED it!  Buy one for a gift and another for you.	2003-06-28
US	52827802	R5GY8K6RMU956	0471298271	214002412	Marking Time: The Epic Quest to Invent the Perfect Calendar	Books	5	6	8	N	N	One of the best non-fiction titles I have ever read	This is not only the best book on measuring time and calendars, this is one of the best factual books I have ever read on any subject whatsoever. Almost every page in this meticulously researched book brims with fascinating information! Steel introduces words rarely used and shows why they're needed, gives background settings in history, politics, religion, and, of course, astronomy. Steel is an astronomer, but from reading this book one feels in the presence of a true polymath.<br />The very first chapter drew me in with that formula, by asking what day is George Washington's birthday. February 22nd, 1732, right? Not exactly! Not only does Steel take us into the \\"missing 11 days\\" of Julian/Gregorian year change, but then shows how New Year's Day has changed as well. It wasn't always January 1st, in fact the year changed on March 25th. The more you read, the more there is behind each new fact. This is James Burke's _Connections_ on steroids! (George Washington always considered February 11th, 1731 his birthday, if you were wondering. Except then we have to talk about double-dating; he was born on Feb 11th 1731/32!)<br />Some of Steel's asides had me laughing uproariously; what could have been a ploddingly dull and thick treatise absolutely sparkles. One of his best observations comes after painstakingly explaining how the Vatican came up with the Easter _computus_ (method of computing). After showing the historical claim that this method was \\"perpetual\\" he mentioned how long-term calendars will misalign as planetary rotations change, and computing Easter until the year 8000 was a mite ambitious. Then, he slyly mentioned that the Roman Catholic Church still presumes that Jesus is returning, so why would they need a perpetual Easter calendar, anyway?<br />About the only defect in the book is the pervasive Christian viewpoint; not that Steel is religious. He isn't, and says so several times. But this book is a product of someone brought up in a Christian country complete with Established Church. More attention to other cultures' calendars would have been appreciated, especially after spending dozens of pages on secret plots involving rival Christian factions and their timekeeping ideas. I was surprised at how little mention was made of the Mayan calendar, for example; blink and you miss it.<br />Despite this deficit, this book is otherwise absolutely terrific. It's not a book to plow through in an airport, though. It is a book to savor, for each new turn calls back so many associations made earlier. When I finally finished it, I felt the need to go back to Chapter 1 and see how much I remembered...what was that Sothic year again? Who was the Metonic cycle named for? What the heck is a nutation? This is a book that never speaks down to its audience; Steel assumes you are an intelligent reader and enjoys learning as much as he does. Enjoy!	2003-05-22
US	52827802	R2MQB9G9XJQUFP	0399527559	848811308	Bridging the Gap: Raising A Child With Nonverbal Learning Disorder	Books	3	60	64	N	N	My Son My Son Let Me Tell You About My Son	What a frustrating book!  The author spent a tremendous amount of energy learning all she could about NLD (Nonverbal Learning Disability) because her son had it.  She became a tireless advocate for him, and now she does Occupational Therapy with other children who have the disability.  But from reading the book you would never tell she met anyone else with NLD besides her own kid.  Like Whitney, I've done the same research as her, I've talked to the experts, I've tried the different therapies, I've attended the conferences.  But, in the words of a presenter at this year's NLDA Symposium: \\"If you've seen one child with NLD... you've seen one child with NLD.\\"  Whitney has not learned this important lesson.  To her, NLD begins and ends with her son's symptoms.<br />Over and over I'd read comments such as \\"NLD children are...\\" and a term that did not apply to my child at all.  And I know other NLD children; we parents naturally seek each other out and pool our information.  Whitney's conclusions didn't apply to all of these children either.<br />The book is structured with each chapter opening with a short vignette about My Son My Son Have I Gone Another Page Without Mentioning Him Well Here He Is Again!  From there I would grit my teeth and then read some mostly useful information.  The list of resources at the end was terrific.  But I can't recommend this book as highly as some of the others in the NLD Canon, because of the High Annoyance Factor another reviewer mentions (I agree).  Yet the Error of Sweeping Conclusions is a far more fatal flaw.  <br />What I find particularly interesting is that I picked up an early draft of this book with a different title, and saw the same vignettes with the identity of MY SON MY SON disguised!  These generic tales were far easier to take, but having read both books it was clear who Whitney was most interested in observing, and seeing which unpleasant events about him made the cut to the published book.  I wonder if this book couldstand on its own without the irritating elegies to Zac; almost half the book would disappear.  Yet I asked my child's teacher to read it because the descriptions of him so perfectly captured another child at our school.  (But not all the OTHER children we know about with NLD, and that's the problem!)<br />If you want to read about a mother's love for her troubled son, dig on in.  If you want to get a sense of what you will be up against in trying to get services for your NLD child, check it out.  If you enjoy vivid descriptions coupled with excellent observations of one particular individual, enjoy!  But if you need help for YOUR child, be forewarned: this is not the first book to read, and it should not be the last one either.  I'd recommend the original and best, Sue Thompson's \\"The Source for Nonverbal Learning Disabilities\\" if you read only one book.	2003-05-15
US	52827802	R282IEPODE2C5B	0446605980	264443642	The Last Day	Books	4	7	10	N	Y	Fun read, too many problems though	I've never read a book like this before, and I'm still trying to figure out what genre to call it.  It's not science fiction, because the science is nonsense.  It's a thriller, but it's also apocalyptic/End Times foolishness.  The author clearly has a beef with organized religion, which makes for a curious mix.  The problem is, he didn't do enough of his homework to make the book believable, and I am not referring to the existence of Jeza the Possible Messiah, or even the research project that begat her.  When I note that he can't distinguish between an evangelical Christian and a millenarian (not even noting the difference between pre- and post-millenarians), I know somebody didn't do his rewrites.<br />What the book lacks is proper verisimilitude.  Almost all of it takes place in Israel and Cairo, but there aren't enough little touches that convince me I'm not in my living room.  Kleier wrote the book with dozens of short chapters, using the location as a heading and assuming the reader would take his word for it.  I don't have the sense that he ever spent time in Jerusalem or Tel Aviv, because he didn't use any local knowledge to take me there.  \\"Show, don't tell\\" is something covered in beginning writer's workshops, but Kleier must have been out sick that day.  The descriptions of Vatican City are slightly more on the mark, but again, could have been lifted from a travel book rather than his viewing a papal procession himself.<br />And the flat, two-dimensional backgrounds aren't the only off-note in this otherwise gripping tale of a modern-day Messiah.  Having chosen to write a religious thriller, Kleier then brings in characters from several religions without showing any sense of how their theological underpinnings differ.  A Lubavicher rabbi agrees to debate a Catholic cardinal on Messianic Prophesies, and the former comes across more like a Lutheran!  Did Kleier also miss the lecture in religion class on how Jews don't consider the New Testament a sacred text, nor do they consider Jesus of Nazareth to have any standing?  Does he understand the difference between the different ultra-Orthodox Jewish groups?  There's no mention of it here; you could substitute \\"Conservative\\" for \\"Lubavicher\\" and it wouldn't make a speck of difference in how the book plays out.  That whole section rang false as well; it's unlikely any ultra-Orthodox rabbi would accept a female as the Moschiach.. he certainly wouldn't be defending her... Same thing with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints; they are cast as opportunists in organizing a religious conference, and not one of them seems troubled that the new redeemer is a woman.  If Kleier had done any research into the LDS' teachings, he'd find out how they view the priesthood as completely male-dominated, far more so than the Roman Catholic Church.  The latter has nuns; the former expects all adult males to become priests, and women have no standing on religious issues at all.<br />This may show the impetus for Kleier's book in understanding its failings: he, like the viewpoint character Jon Feldman, can't accept the boon of religious salvation, but also can't see living without it.  Kleier cannot conceive of a character without a Christian viewpoint, and it so colors this novel that Jews, Moslems, atheists, and other non-Christians demonstrate the same assumptions, beliefs, and expectations as the Christians.  But it's nonsense to set a novel in Israel and then expect that everyone knows it's Palm Sunday.  More likely, everyone is getting ready for Passover by cleaning their homes, or ignoring it entirely because they're secular Jews or religious Moslems!  It's laughable to set a scene in Vatican City and have Italian cardinals explaining how to translate Latin phrases into English; the official language of the Vatican is Latin, and that was how Jeza should have addressed the Pope.<br />I'm still giving this book 4 stars because it was a great read and I had a lot of trouble putting it down... but when I did I wanted to throw it across the room!  How could it be plotted so well and executed so poorly?  How many obvious errors can I find in 2003 in a book written only five years ago... like the unveiling of horrible Roman Catholic hushed-up scandals that neglected to mention the child molesters!  How about the election of 2000, with an incumbent Democrat challenged by a religious conservative Democrat, and no Republican anywhere in the picture!  And Pope John Paul II is still alive; if Kleier needed to kill him off to present a new Pope, why didn't he tell us when JPII died?  Why do we spend more than half the book in Israel with almost no mention of the intifada, the occupation zones, or any of the terrorist bombings?  These had started before 1998 when the book was published.  I'd better stop this or I'm going to take away another star.	2003-05-15
US	52827802	R1GIXAZAVEFU3I	0765304171	981947955	Jaws of Darkness	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Darkness: the madness, the magic, the motion picture!	Fifth book in the series is a winner!<br />Harry Turtledove's Derlavai series is one of his best.  While he is known for alternate history, historically accurate novels where certain events are tweaked and the story played out, this is a fantasy retelling of World War II.  To keep matters confusing, he's plunked the Eurasian landmass in the Southern hemisphere, turned it upside down, and removed about 80% of Russia (which explains why there is no China equivalent).  Then he gave each country different names, borders, national characteristics, and mixed up the languages.  Thus the Algarvians (Germans) all have Italian names, the Kuusamans (Americans) have Finnish names, etc.  Oh, one more important twist.  All the technology is sorcery.  So this series could be called \\"Fantasy history\\" or even \\"fantasy alternative history.\\"<br />Once you figure out which country lines up with our own history, you know what ought to happen, but it's still a great read even when 90% of the events line up with our own timeline.  Sometimes he conflates one country into another; Valmiera was clearly France, but Jelgava served the role as both Spain and Belgium.  (Another reviewer suggested it was the Netherlands, but that was Sibiu, one of the few countries covered previously that has no role in this book.)  The Kaunians are both the Polish Jews and the descendents of the Roman empire (somehow the citizens of France and Spain, but not Italy, hmmmm?)<br />New developments in Book V include the sorcerous equivalent of an aircraft carrier: a magical floating iceberg carrying dragons.  The Manhattan (Naantali) Project finally shows practical applications in the war, even as the enemy tries to destroy it (which did not happen in our timeline!) French (Valmieran) resistance fighters include what little sorcery they can get, in one case a young teenaged girl who works with Skarnu.<br />All the viewpoint characters are back from Book IV, too.  With room to develop them over five novels, there isroom for character growth.  Some show it, most don't; they just go on being themselves.  What shines in Jaws of Darkness is the turn of the tide that occurred in our 1944 and how Turtledove shows the changing fortunes of his world and its people.  With the Russians (Unkerlanters) retaking their territory from the Germans (Algarvians), who are also on the run in the West (East), not to mention the entry of the US (Kuusamo) into the fray, things are happening.  We know what's coming, but the great writing and the interesting characters keep us reading.<br />Some typos were in the first edition, but my biggest complaint was the slapdash job on the map.  Lots of new cities were written in badly, and one country has its name written incorrectly!  With action in so many places, the map is crucial; too bad the publisher did it on the cheap.	2003-04-30
US	52827802	R17Q5DGIGYVWZP	0743435761	851894334	Advance and Retreat	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Last book in a weaker series	Harry Turtledove is an excellent writer of alternative history.  That genre deals with a divergence from our own history, by changing one or more events, and then surmising what would follow.  His recent &quot;Ruled Brittania&quot; concerns what England would be like after the success (instead of the failure) of the Spanish Armada, and eventual invasion of England by the Spaniards.<br />This book is not alternative history.  Advance and Retreat, the third book in the &quot;Detina&quot; series, is Altered History.  Turtledove takes real US Civil War history, maps it into a new fantasy world, and retells the story with magic instead of technology and monarchy replacing democracy.  In Detina, South is our North, East is our West, and both people and places have names that are excuses for punnery.  Thus, the Cumbersome River (instead of Cumberland) or Summer Mountain (which is really Spring Hill).  Some of the names are easy to figure out (Peachtree = Georgia), some require knowledge of Latin, Greek or Hebrew (Parthenia = Virginia, King Avram = Abraham Lincoln), some are cutesy (Peterpaulandia = Maryland), others are completely baffling (New Eborac = New York, Dothan = Alabama).<br />Turtledove does some things well in this book.  The story is engaging, the battle scenes are riveting, and the characters are fascinating (for the most part).  Even knowing how the events will turn out, since it corresponds with the US Civil War in 1865, I never lost interest.  Even when Turtledove tells us sixty times that Doubting George isn't ready to invade, or Bell used to be a mighty warrior before he lost an arm and a leg, I kept going.<br />But some things are done poorly.  Turtledove loved the punning more than keeping his world consistent, and many of the names simply rang false.  Some walked out of Masterpiece Theatre, like Duke Edward of Arlington and Ned of the Forest, others arrived from mysterious lands with odd tongues (Generals Hesmucet and Peegeetee), yet no mention was ever made of this linguistic clash.  At least in Turtledove's &quot;Darkness&quot; series, which is a similar fantasy remapping of World War II, each of the countries has consistant people and place names within their own borders.<br />While deciphering the puns and anagrams can be fun, they should not get in the way of the story.  Yet the names do clash, a continual reminder that this novel is simply a retelling of a different land, far away.  And one of the important parts of the story does not map correctly, for Turtledove has created swarthy &quot;Detinans&quot; from across the Western Ocean, who have defeated and enslaved native &quot;blonds.&quot;  More blonds remain, on on the other side of the Great River (Mississippi) -- ah, you see the problem!  He's amalgamated Africans and Native Americans into one people!  This off-note jars in an otherwise faithful (though upside-down) retelling of American history.<br />Recommended for Turtledove fans and Civil War buffs.  Others take your chances.	2003-02-27
US	52827802	R2NU3ID1R3C8AW	1590520556	470914425	Six Steps to Spiritual Revival: God's Awesome Power in Your Life (LifeChange Books)	Books	1	20	30	N	N	Take Six Steps... Away From Spiritual Ruin	So Pat Robertson has written a book on spiritual renewal. This is the same<BR>Pat Robertson who can't decide whether to render under Caesar or bury him.<BR>Suffice it to say, this is someone with too much pride and avarice to<BR>witness the gospel, let alone interpret it.<br />While it abounds in unintentional irony when contrasted with Robertson's<BR>real-life antics, the book also fails as straightforward spiritual advice.<BR>His history of the church also ignores other similar spiritual movements,<BR>and fails to acknowledge any commonality with the Catholic church at all.<BR>(This isn't surprising, given the anti-Catholic rants from these quarters.)<BR>While paying homage to Charles Finney, it neglects the real roots of<BR>Robertson's religious orientation, the 1915 publication of &quot;The<BR>Fundamentals,&quot; the tract credited with energizing the Fundamentalist<BR>movement in the United States.<br />The author, knowing little of whence he came, also informs minimally in<BR>where to go. The richness of religious experience is boiled down not to<BR>essence but rules. The mystery of existence is put aside for bulleted lists.<br />With so many useful interpretations and roadmaps to the Bible available,<BR>this one can be Left Behind.	2002-12-21
US	52827802	R3G9HD0GU7R0E9	0765303922	170230601	Whole Wide World	Books	5	3	3	N	N	In England's hot unpleasant climes	Paul McAuley's _Whole Wide World_ is a science fiction/murder mystery, and works well as both. A young woman is murdered, her computers destroyed, and then we discover the crime was broadcast on her website. Our narrator really fills the bill as an anti-hero; short, disrespected, dumped by his girlfriend, demoted from detective work to a do-nothing police support division. He is pulled into this crime when asked to pick up and examine the computers, and finds he cannot stay away from the case.<br />McAuley sets the book in in London, maybe eight years from now. Cameras cover every block, and a vast AI ties them together. A terrorist virus has crippled all computer networks, and most haven't recovered completly. Social mores have gotten more restrictive; porn is completely illegal, and foreign books/movies/magazines censored. And London is hot and uncomfortable, with screens and mesh everywhere (presumably to keep out virus-carrying mosquitoes, but never specifically mentioned), more like New Orleans than the UK.<br />Our hero must handle colleagues who wish him ill and try to keep him away from the case, the victim's uncle who invented the CCTV AI system and has too many secrets, his absent girlfriend who can't decide what to do with him, and a series of taunting emails from the possible perp. Like all good mysteries, each question answered leads to five more; each suspect checked out only implicates formerly trusted people. McAuley does a great job ratcheting up the tension as our unnamed protagonist tries to win his good name back. The descriptions of near-future London were well-written and disturbing enough to linger for days. And the issues raised about privacy will keep you thinking long after you put the book down.<br />A great read for SF readers, mystery fans, and computer geeks.	2002-12-16
US	52827802	RF6T98DVYMLGK	0345413350	994627826	The Golden Compass (His Dark Materials, Book 1)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Compass to Paradise Regained	The Golden Compass is the first book in an epic trilogy that is closer in tone to Tolkien's _Lord of the Rings_than the _Harry Potter_ books, but religion and philosophy take center stage. It's still a battle of Good versus Evil, where Pullman updates Milton and Blake by questioning a LOT of assumptions.<br />With the Catholic Church scandal revealing painful new developments every day, Pullman's work becomes even more timely. Are institutions created to teach morality capable of staying moral? Can moral authorities resist authoritarianism? Which is more important, the integrity of the institution or protecting our most vulnerable citizens? All these issues will come to fore in the trilogy.<br />Written as a fantasy-adventure featuring pre-teen Lyra, this first volume features an alternate Oxford (UK) where everyone has a animal-daemon who stays close at hand. Children's daemons change animal form, adults stay settled as one animal, revealing a bit of its human's personality.  Armored and intelligent polar bears figure, along with corrupt church adminisrators who kidnap and experiment on children.  The Oxford where Lyra lives is also engaging in these dangerous experiments, and ties to the Church are closer than in our world.  (Which Church is never specified; while the organization and omnipotence suggests the Roman Catholics, it could as easily be the Church of England in a world where religion is enmeshed with government.)<br />Pullman clearly detests the evil done in the name of religion, which is why the Good and Evil discussion gets intricate. He is not necessarily anti-Catholic or anti-Christian but anti-authoritarian. Anyone who has studied European history will recognize the characterization of a corrupt and overly powerful Church. Lyra represents the The Enlightenment in a world as politically forward as pre-Reformation Europe, and must defeat powerful forces who have no interest in power-sharing. The book works both as a springboard to the Big Questions and as an allegory for growing up and finding one's own way.<br />Literate, informed, evocative, and conceptually brilliant, this supposed Young Adult release will captivate adults as well.	2002-12-14
US	52827802	R1AUOHMZQAOY1L	0345448898	731430286	His Dark Materials Trilogy: The Golden Compass / The Subtle Knife / The Amber Spyglass	Books	5	26	38	N	N	Fantasy for Thinking People	This epic trilogy is closer in tone to Tolkien's _Lord of the Rings_than the _Harry Potter_ books, but religion and philosophy take center stage.  It's still a battle of Good versus Evil, where Pullman updates Milton and Blake by questioning a LOT of assumptions.<br />With the Catholic Church scandal revealing painful new developments every day, Pullman's work becomes even more timely.  Are institutions created to teach morality capable of staying moral?  Can moral authorities resist authoritarianism?  Which is more important, the integrity of the institution or protecting our most vulnerable citizens?  All these issues come to fore in _His Dark Materials_.<br />Written as a fantasy-adventure featuring 2 pre-teens, Lyra and Will, this three-volume set features an alternate Oxford (UK) where everyone has a animal-daemon who stays close at hand, intrigue in our own Oxford and the travel between the two, a dangerous Mediterranean world where soul-sucking wraiths only kill adults, and the underworld of the dead.  Armored and intelligent polar bears figure, along with corrupt church adminisrators who kidnap and experiment on children.<br />Pullman clearly detests the evil done in the name of religion, which is why the Good and Evil discussion gets intricate.  He is not necessarily anti-Catholic or anti-Christian but anti-authoritarian.  Anyone who has studied European history will recognize the characterization of a corrupt and overly powerful Church (denomination never specified in this book, btw).  Lyra and Will are bringing The Enlightenment to several worlds who are as politically forward as pre-Reformation Europe, and must defeat powerful forces who have no interest in power-sharing.  The books work both as a springboard to the Big Questions and as an allegory for growing up and finding one's own way.<br />Literate, informed, evocative, and conceptually brilliant, this supposed Young Adult release will captivate adults as well.	2002-12-14
US	52827802	RXVTLM73AUTZN	0345413377	731430286	The Amber Spyglass (His Dark Materials, Book 3)	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Forever Amber	This epic trilogy is closer in tone to Tolkien's _Lord of the Rings_than the _Harry Potter_ books, but religion and philosophy take center stage. It's still a battle of Good versus Evil, where Pullman updates Milton and Blake by questioning a LOT of assumptions.  In this last volume, the epic battle of Paradise Lost is restaged, angels clash, and not just our own world is at stake.<br />Written as a fantasy-adventure featuring 2 pre-teens, Lyra and Will, this third volume, with a background including an alternate Oxford (UK) (where everyone has a animal-daemon who stays close at hand), intrigue in our own Oxford and the travel between the two, a dangerous Mediterranean world where soul-sucking wraiths only kill adults, introduces no less than underworld of the dead.  Wicked angels proclaiming themselves as moral remind us of many of our own flawed leaders.<br />The last volume of a trilogy has to tie up all the disparate plot points, and Pullman needs a huge loom to do so!  Still more characters and places are introduced, battles rage, and all of this leads up to a heartrending finish.  Many reviewers raged about the finale, the grief they felt, or the frustration in why this came to pass.  But the answer is simple: this is, despite the incredibly rich writing and highly literate and encoded themes, still a YA title, and with this much erotic charge, that's the way YA books have to end.  If he'd ended it on a complete up note with fireworks, tea kettles, and steam engines pulling coaches through tunnels, forever and evermore, then it's not YA.  And I felt the heartpangs of the ending for days after reading this, too...<br />Pullman clearly detests the evil done in the name of religion, which is why the Good and Evil discussion gets intricate. He is not necessarily anti-Catholic or anti-Christian but anti-authoritarian. Anyone who has studied European history will recognize the characterization of a corrupt and overly powerful Church (denomination never specified inthis book, btw). Lyra and Will are bringing The Enlightenment to several worlds who are as politically forward as pre-Reformation Europe, and must defeat powerful forces who have no interest in power-sharing.  In her role as both a knowledge bringer and one willing to sacrifice all for others, Lyra takes on several mythic roles.  She is tempted as Eve, she brings knowledge like the serpent (don't forget that the serpent was revered by other religions, just look at the caduceus; see, one religion's goodness is another's evil, just as in this book!), and she gave up all like Jesus Christ.  Several reviewers complained these books condemn Christianity without any mention of Christ.  Hello?  Don't you think that was Pullman's point, that organized religion rarely stays on track with its original beauty, falling victim to doctrine, power, and control?  <br />With the Catholic Church scandal revealing painful new developments every day, Pullman's work becomes even more timely. Are institutions created to teach morality capable of staying moral? Can moral authorities resist authoritarianism? Which is more important, the integrity of the institution or protecting our most vulnerable citizens? All these issues come to fore in _His Dark Materials_.<br />The books work both as a springboard to All The Big Questions and as an allegory for growing up and finding one's own way.<BR>Literate, informed, evocative, and conceptually brilliant, this supposed Young Adult release will captivate adults as well.	2002-12-14
US	52827802	R1KWK08GNVOBCD	0679777989	58978209	The Parent's Handbook	Books	4	25	28	N	Y	STEP right up	This is the book used with STEP training, the 7-week parenting course. Where I live, this class is offered through the YWCA, and our school gives a modified version of STEP to all incoming parents.<br />Every day at our school we use the conflict-resolution model described in this book. I can think of two reasons it's so effective. First, it's very respectful of children, encouraging them to speak up and have their concerns heard. Second, the process takes so long that they soon learn to streamline it to resolve their issues without adult help. They usually come up with ways to solve problems that are okay with everyone.<br />We use the principles in this book at home, too.	2002-12-13
US	52827802	R1984AOQSR5O01	0374524734	341831195	It's Not Fair, Jeremy Spencer's Parents Let Him Stay up All Night!: A Guide to the Tougher Parts of Parenting	Books	5	26	26	N	Y	The best parenting book I ever read, and I've read a LOT	Without a doubt, this is the best book I have ever read on handling children.  I've read all the classics, and each of them taught me little bits here and there, but this was the only book where every single chapter spoke to me.  Not only is the advice terrific, but Wolf gives explanations for some behaviors that otherwise didn't make any sense.<br />Did you ever pick up the phone when your child was playing quietly?  You know what happens, right?  Your child suddenly needs your assistance THIS MINUTE and will make it impossible for you to have a conversation.  The same thing happens if you get a visitor or run into someone when your child was otherwise perfectly happy.  Anthony Wolf tells you why your child does this.  And better yet, he tells you what you can do to STOP this!<br />While implementing his strategy takes some self-control, it is not difficult, and there isn't a lot to remember.  The important thing is to be consistent and use his approach whenever you deal with tantrums or interruptions.  He calls this approach Robo-Parent.  When it's clear that the child is just trying to keep you hooked into an argument, you stop talking and remove the child to his room.  At our house we just say &quot;Goodbye.&quot;  It's kind of like a time-out in that it resets everyone's mood, but there's no clock.  The child can come back whenever he's ready to behave.  Usually my kids just go to their room and come right back out.  It's not a punishment.  <br />In fact Wolf clearly disapproves of punishing children, because he says shaming and hurting is counter-productive.  Think about an abusive boss you had and how eager you were to do your best with that behavior.  That's how your kids feel too.  This approach leads to better feelings for everyone.<br />Wolf has another book out called _Secrets of Parenting_ which is mostly taken from this book.  Buy one or the other as there is a tremendous amount of overlap.  Both are appropriate in handling children between 2 and 12; he has another book on dealing with teenagers.	2002-12-09
US	52827802	RT0KM2173NR0Q	0374527083	89949148	The Secret of Parenting: How to Be in Charge of Today's Kids--from Toddlers to Preteens--Without Threats or Punishment	Books	5	26	27	N	Y	Excellent advice, but borrows heavily from Jeremy	If you have not read any of Anthony Wolf's books, and you are looking for a great book on parenting, you've found it.  Wolf's advice is straightforward, logical, and reasonably easy to implement.  But if you bought _It's No Fair, Jeremy Spencer Gets to Stay Up All Night_, this one won't teach you much more.  _Secrets of Parenting_ borrows heavily from _It's No Fair_, to the point that there's no need for both of them.<br />The kernel of Wolf's approach toward dealing with children is in handling the I Want You Now personality.  His descriptions of typical childhood behavior ring true to anyone who has children.  Ever have your child playing quietly in the same room until you pick up the phone, and then s/he needs you to help RIGHT AWAY?  Wolf will explain why this happens.  Better yet, he'll tell you how to handle this so it won't keep happening.<br />His advice on handling bad behavior is for you to become a Robo-parent.  It completely disconnects the I Want You Now behavior, because it doesn't engage.  Robo-parent deals with the child, no muss, ignore the fuss, and very soon your child learns that tantrums and stickiness don't succeed.  While I can't always tamp down my emotions to turn into Robo-parent, it's good to have a strategy that WILL WORK.	2002-12-09
US	52827802	R3R1R7JVGWZ6T7	0451207173	504828940	Ruled Britannia	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Rule Turtledove!	Harry Turtledove's newest book is a straight alternative history; no fantasy, no science fiction.  The turning point is a victorious Spanish Armada, whose superior forces overwhelmed the British and have returned England to Catholic rule.  Elizabeth I is now a prisoner in the Tower of London, while King Phillip II's daughter Isabella and her husband are the Queen and King.<br />Nine years later, the book begins with a vivid description of the English Inquisition (no one expects...) and heretics paraded and then burned at the stake.  The population has been whipsawed between Catholic and Protestant rule, and now the Catholics are back with a vengeance.  William Shakespeare is one of Turtledove's viewpoint characters, and like most, he is willing to go along with whatever religion the rulers want, as long as he can continue his day-to-day living.  If that means observing Lent a month earlier than the Protestants would have, then he'll eat fish where others can see him.  Alas, events do not allow a peaceful existance for him.<br />Shakespeare is asked to help overthrow the Spanish-Catholic overlords by writing a play about Queen Boudicca and her revolt against the invading Romans.  Meanwhile, the Spanish ask him to write a master work commerating the about-to-drop-dead-any-day-now King of Spain, Phillip II.  And the other viewpoint character, the Spanish lieutenant Lope de Vega, is there to watch Shakespeare and ensure nothing treasonous is going on.  And de Vega enjoys his job, in fact he writes plays in Spanish and loves talking shop.  So how is Shakespeare ever going to rehearse Boudicca, assuming he can figure out which of his troupe is willing to do so without running to the Inquisition?<br />Unlike most of Turtledove's other books, there are ONLY two viewpoint characters, and that helped move the plot along as well as let the background seep in.  Turtledove's typical work has anywhere between eight and twenty viewpoints, giving a channel-surfing feel to some of them.  Here we get to know the two protagonists, their fears, triumphs, and demons.  Many here have said this is Turtledove's best book yet.  While I'd reserve that for _How Few Remain_ (his fantastic alternate history of a victorious Confederate States of America 20 years later), this is certainly one of his best.  If you love Shakespeare, you will love the use of his quotes throughout the book, as well as discovering how his plays take different form in this universe.  If you don't, you will want to read more Shakespeare when you're through.  Don't miss this one.	2002-12-02
US	52827802	RYUWUZ0403PQD	0380811138	636759549	The Wild Machines:: The Book Of Ash, #3	Books	5	2	4	N	N	This is SOOOOOOOO spooky	but I just submitted a review of the Ash books, 1, 2, and 3, and guess what?  No trace of book #4, even though I read the reviews on it last night.  I feel like Pierce Ratcliff right now, watching reality change before me.  I tried the title, the author, the ISBN number, as far as Amazon is concerned today, The Book of Ash #4: Lost Burgundy no longer exists!<BR>Talk about life following art!	2002-10-09
US	52827802	R1R77XMV7996SJ	0380811138	636759549	The Wild Machines:: The Book Of Ash, #3	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Back to Europe where the sun don't shine	This is the third Book of Ash (the first two are A Secret History and Carthage Ascendent).  But this is not a series, the entire work was conceived as one novel and published as four books in the US.  In The Wild Machines, Ash, mercenary company leader and incidentally slave-born genetic experiment (as she discovers in Book 2), is on her way back to the rest of her company and away from Carthage.  Very bad things are happening.  The sun is no longer shining in the parts of Europe that the Visigoth army has conquered, and it's getting cold, just like in Carthage.  The voice in Ash's head isn't what she thought it was (a tactical computer) but a creation of the \\"Wild Machines,\\" silicon lifeforms that are directing Carthage's political and military actions through an artifact.  It is the Wild Machines who have encouraged the conquering of Europe, and they tell Ash that they have drawn down the power of the sun.<br />Heady stuff, yet she still has to reunite her company, as only half of them came to rescue her in Book 2.  She returns to Burgundy, which becomes central to the Wild Machines plans for world domination.  Ash wants to know more about her twin, the general of the Visigoth army called \\"the Faris.\\"  And the Faris wants to know more about Ash.  And everyone is panicking as the weather changes, the crops fail, and the sun don't shine.<br />Meanwhile, Pierce Ratcliff, translator of Ash's manuscripts, is handling more bizarre happenings while trying to convince his editor not to yank his book project.  The email messages between them continue to let us know that something very wrong has happened to our understanding of reality, taking this work once more from fiction to fantasy to science ficiton, and round about through alternative history a few times...	2002-10-09
US	52827802	R2IR4YD53P6CGS	0380788691	166781184	A Secret History: The Book Of Ash, #1	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Historical fiction? Fantasy?  Alternate History?  Sci-Fi?	A Secret History, the first of the four &quot;Books of Ash&quot;, is difficult to categorize.  While the book itself is stamped &quot;Fantasy&quot; on the spine, all the topics above apply at one time or another.  And that, perhaps, is why several of the reviewers got annoyed with this book, because it refuses to stick to one category and stay there.  This is not a failure on the book's part, but a success; this work is a tour de force.<br />The tale starts off as a translation of a 15th century manuscript, with notes from the (purported) author to his editor, and then we are absorbed into the story of Ash, Renaissance Battle Babe (well, mercenary company leader).  Mary Gentle has done her homework on this period, and you will experience almost everything to make it real by dwelling on the discomforts.  You will march through muck, mud, and mire, don and doff heavy armor more times than you will care to, while overhearing political calculations in where the next mercenary contract should come from.  And the more you take in, the more twists are in store.<br />The breezy correspondence between the translator, Pierce Ratcliff, and his editor, Anna Longman, at first seems jarring compared to the long, complex, and thorough descriptions and adventures of Ash and her company.  But do follow them, because they hint from the beginning that this book is not a mere swords without sorcery tale.  The editor mentions that she studied Ash in college, yet we know Ash is fictional.  And then all of Pierce's source materials either disappear or get reclassified as fiction.  Not only do we wonder what will happen to Ash, trying to own land to keep a mercenary company in a land where women cannot own land; we wonder where Pierce's book will ever see the light of day.  And why would his sources... change?<br />There are enough similarities to the Late Middle Ages to seem familiar, but here and there some differences catch you up.  Europe is Christian, but the worship is different.  There are temples to Mithras.  There are Visigoths still around... and they're in Carthage, and not the Carthage sacked by Rome.<br />At the end of this book, the mostly-solid reality of life in 1486 is starting to unravel, and this will be further explained (and complicated) in the next book.  History becomes fantasy, which becomes alternate history, and on to the science fictional parts.  Do stay with it, for it is indeed worth the trip.  My only complaint is that the book so pulled me into Ash's world and wouldn't let me out because there are very few stopping places!<br />Note: This work is not a &quot;series&quot; in the true sense, because Gentle conceived and wrote it as one novel.  In the US it was published and released as four books, but in the UK, where she lives, it was published as one tremendous novel.	2002-10-09
US	52827802	R1J3HQZYGSXLGS	0380805502	364694745	Carthage Ascendant : The Book of Ash 2	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Swords, and now some sorcery	Carthage Ascendent is the second Book of Ash, although this isn't a series but a tremendous novel published in four parts.  It's the only one that takes place away from Ash's stomping grounds of western Europe, where the other three books are set.  Here, our heroine, the leader of a mercenary company, is captured and taken prisoner, then returned to her birthplace of Carthage.  She didn't know this was her birthplace, and this is not the Carthage you think it is.  Oh, and she's got this twin who is the general of the Visigoth army.  And if you think that isn't weird enough, there's no sun in Carthage.  And now it's getting very cold.<br />Yes, things are defintely getting beyond a straight historical fiction, but it doesn't read like just fantasy either.  The story of Ash is supposedly a manuscript translation, but the editor wants to yank the project because the manuscripts are disappearing from their supposed libraries.  Meanwhile the translator has joined an archaelogical expedition and is finding evidence supporting the events in Ash's life.<br />This second book has a very different sense than the first one, since we meet her as a competent leader, and now she's reduced to a defeated slave.  But with two more books to go, there are plenty more plot developments, and they are very surprising.  The &quot;voice&quot; in Ash's head is not what she thought it was in Book 1, and dealing with it takes up a good deal of her worries (that is, when she isn't plotting her escape).  Her husband shows up in Carthage, too, and she gets to watch the politics of the amirs here after handling European nobility in book 1.  Have I mentioned that there is a lot going on here?<br />Keep at it and enjoy.  Check out the reviews of Book 1: A Secret History if you haven't already.	2002-10-09
US	52827802	R4IYZKPW3SUXA	1550374842	584709265	Stephanie's Ponytail (Munsch for Kids)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Terrific book about peer pressure and individuality	Stephanie just wanted to go to school with a ponytail.  But first the other kids make fun of her hairstyle, and then they all decide to wear their hair the same way.  Each time Stephanie changes her hairstyle, she is berated (Ugly, ugly, very ugly!) and then copied.  But Stephanie get even with them!  She tells them she will shave her head, and sure enough... everyone shows up at school bald as a baby, except Stephanie, wearing a ponytail in the back. The last two pictures in this book are hysterically funny.<br />My kids love this book.  It gives us a nice springboard to discuss whether they like to be trendsetters or followers, and how they feel when someone copies their original ideas.  This is one of Munsch's best, and he is GOOD.	2002-10-09
US	52827802	R1NUYKTTJCS67S	0060256656	945451465	The Giving Tree	Books	2	9	24	N	N	Despair, delusion, and doormats	I remember when I first read \\"The Giving Tree\\" and it always disturbed me greatly. A tree, depicted as a female, gives a little boy a place to play, fruit to eat, shade to enjoy. Then the boy grows older and takes away everything the tree owns; he sells the fruit, cuts down her branches, and finally chops down her trunk so he can sail away from her. And the tree continues to love the boy, and the tree was still happy.<br />Do you remember the first time you realized that there wasn't any Tooth Fairy or Santa Claus? That's how I felt when I saw that poor, pathetic drawing of a stump, with the text \\"And the tree was happy.\\" If that is the point of the story, that the tree was deluding herself about the boy, then why does she accept him when he returns 50 years later, a worn-out husk himself?  The boy not only took everything away from the tree, he goes on to create a family that abandons him in turn, no doubt because he was such a selfish pig.  And THAT is the tree's payoff for her unconditional love?<br />It seems the message the book gives little girls is that the way they can find happiness is by giving everything, absolutely everything, of themselves to little boys. And all they will get in return is that maybe, possibly, these boys might return to them in the end, as tired old men. <br />If you have a little girl, please do not give her this book. Instead I recommend Robert Munch's delightful \\"Paper Bag Princess,\\" where the princess rescues the prince from the fierce dragon (through cleverness and determination) only to be criticized for what a mess she is. And the little girl tells the prince that he looks terrific, but he's really a bum, and doesn't marry him after all.	2002-09-06
US	52827802	R2TG7GKZJVFOC4	0763617105	411629047	Owl Babies	Books	5	52	53	N	N	Whooooooo  will like this?  Your child!	This is a terrific children's book.  While the subject appears to be about baby owls, and it does cover a few interesting facts kids will like, there's more going on here.  The book really addresses every child's greatest fear, being separated from a parent.  The baby owls wake up and Mommy Owl is GONE!!!  They confer with each other on where she could be, and they get more and more worried.  But she returns at the end of the book, and assures them she will always come back.<br />The pictures are wonderful.  Unlike most other birds, owls lay their eggs 2-3 days apart so the babies hatch on different days and thus are different sizes.  My kids love how there is an oldest, a middle, and a youngest owl.  They also like how the oldest tries to reassure the younger ones, and how the youngest always says the same thing.<br />The pale-yellow type on black is also neat, reminding kids that owls are nocturnal birds.  The information says this book is for ages 3-7 but we read this to our kids before they were 2 and they loved it then and still love it now.	2002-08-31
US	52827802	R2XQ31JUCDR0LA	0743435583	871816105	Miles Errant (Miles Vorkosigan Adventures)	Books	5	165	165	N	N	An omnibus, but worth owning if you don't have the others	This isn't a new book.  If you were hoping to read about the further adventures of Miles Vorkosigan after _Diplomatic Immunity_, you're going to have to wait!  Instead, this is a collection of earlier works arranged in a logical sequence.<br />The three works are \\"The Borders of Infinity,\\" a novella about Miles' rescue mission to a POW camp; _Brothers in Arms_, a novel that takes place four months later on Earth, where Miles first meets his \\"evil twin\\" brother/clone; and _Mirror Dance_, another novel where Miles' brother/clone returns to cause havoc for him by acting on his earlier intent to destroy the clone labs (where he was created and saw dozens of clone-children destroyed) on Jackson's Whole.<br />I came across the Vorkosigan saga in a somewhat nonlinear order, reading whatever I found with a lot of backing and filling.  It is really a pleasure to read these works again, in a way that lets all those asides to previous adventures have the proper resonance instead of experiencing a series of throw-away dialogue.  If you already own the books there is no point in buying it, but if you don't, do buy this.  Despite having read all of these books in the last 2 years I am really enjoying the rereading.  Bujold is such a great writer that her works can be read many times with just as much pleasure.	2002-08-31
US	52827802	R3D9UWFZ3XVIH3	0760601631	559827566	The Source for Nonverbal Learning Disorders	Books	5	50	51	N	Y	Get this book first	My child's Occupational Therapist handed me this book and told me to skim it quickly.  She thought my child had NLD and suggested I review the book and see if I agreed.  Thanks to the numerous checklists in Thompson's book I was able to get a handle on what the problem was.<br />But it isn't all checklists.  Thompson has illustrative anecdotes that explain what it's like to have an NLD child, and to BE an NLD child.  Some of them are absolutely heartbreaking, such as the boy who jumped off a building because he believed his &quot;friends&quot; who assured him he could fly.  Some are encouraging, showing how therapy, accomodations, and hard work can help children overcome this learning disorder.  And some just make you think... different.<br />If you've heard the phrase &quot;Non-verbal learning disability&quot; and aren't sure what it means or whether it applies to your child, or what to do about it, do check this book out.  An excellent resource for parents, teachers, and anyone else who works with any children with NLD.	2002-08-31
US	52827802	RELMAVILDEJHU	0451458869	243083884	Worlds that Weren't	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Intriguing	I enjoyed all four of the stories in this anthology. In fact I went to get The Peshawar Lancers and Ash: A Secret History after reading the Stirling and Gentle contributions here. <br />While I'm a big fan of Turtledove, I found it difficult to appreciate the Turtledove novella as I'm not as familiar with ancient Athens and Sparta as he is. I was unfamiliar with Alicibiades and thus his story wasn't as compelling as some of the others.<br />Stirling's novella takes place in a very different Texas from ours, where a rain of comets destroyed Western civilization. I wasn't clear where the cannibal tribes came from, and there weren't enough hints (that I could fathom) to figure it out, nor was I clear on whether the \\"Seven Tribes\\" were all Native American or if they included some European settlers (it appeared they did). The story was well-told and there were compelling characters who stayed after the story ended, especially Sonya Head-on-fire.<br />Same problem with Gentle's world, I wasn't clear where history had shifted but also a well-layered story. The backstory of this tale is the role of the woman soldier (disguised as a man). I'm not sure the future-flashes, which this 14th century woman saw as a vision, were necessary to the plot, but her ruminations on being remembered after death were poignant. I'm looking forward to reading both their novels in hope it will fill some of this in.<br />Williams' take on Tombstone was a real hoot putting Nietzsche in the middle of the dynamics. His afterward is fascinating, showing how the cinema version of the OK Corral shootout cut out the context of cowboys versus lawmen, and that the Clanton vs Earp battle wasn't an end but a beginning of an end.<br />A good time, and in the tradition of good alternate history, it got me thinking of how things really happened.	2002-08-26
US	52827802	R2TEABED9LTGCX	0743435281	9599568	Alternate Generals II	Books	2	7	9	N	N	Alternate Editing	I'm a bigtime Harry Turtledove fan, and eagerly grabbed this book in hopes of reading some good alternate history.  For those of you unfamiliar with this term, alternate history allows the author to change an event or assumption and then write the history that would, or could, have developed with the change.  Turtledove himself wrote a terrific US Civil War novel called \\"How Few Remain\\" where the South wins a crucial battle and then the war.  This book takes place 20 years later with the CSA as a sovereign nation, making alliances against the USA.<br />Now, when I pick up an anthology edited by someone who is a big name in the field, I expect to get their expert opinion along with their expert selections.  I don't think Turtledove succeeded with either.  There is no introduction, conclusion, or even lead-in vignettes by the editor, and that's a tremendous lack.  Unlike Turtledove, I am not a history expert, I don't know each and every turn of history referred to in these stories, despite my being reasonably well-read.  All he had to do was give us an intro or an afterward on the \\"branching point\\" in the story and many would have made so much more sense.  Without this, this collection would be only of interest to war-stories buffs (as would be expected since each story must include a general in it), when it could also have been a cross-over to science fiction and alternate history fans like me.<br />While some of the stories are good, most either plod, or don't have enough detail for someone who isn't an expert in the time period covered.  My favorite piece by far was \\"Southern Strategy\\" by Michael F. Flynn, where post-WWII UN forces are occupying the US South, attempting to root out racial oppression.  Many famous people in our timeline have different roles because of the occupation.  Adlai Stevenson is a senator attempting to negotiate a compromise candidate between the Northern and Southern factions of the Democratic party.  George Wallace is either a terrorist ora loyalist, as is Martin Luther King, Jr., in their own ways.  Even Dick Nixon ensures he won't be kicked around, and there's a cameo by Elvis Presley, too.  This story of occupation, despair, retribution, and futility haunted me for days.  But the general in this story, Rommel, is mostly offstage.  The real interest is following the different factions; the North, the Southern whites, the Southern blacks, and the occupying Germans.<br />\\"Labor Relations\\" by Esther Friesner, is part fantasy, part war story, and also well-written as we should expect from her.  It takes place in non-contemporary Japan, but I couldn't figure out when.  It appears to be a Korean occupation.  I don't know if the Japanese Empress is a real character or if one of the soldiers should have been the general in real history.<br />\\"American Mandate\\" (James Fiscus) has the US occupying (and then withdrawing from) Turkey in 1918 at the conclusion of WWI.  It's interesting and has both local color and intrigue, but like most of the stories in this book, it assumed I knew more about the time period than I did.  \\"Horizon\\" (Noreen Doyle) covers ancient Egypt, and while an interesting tale, I had no idea where things had changed from our timeline.  It was also far too long for a story whose point I was missing, as I couldn't identify most of the characters in the story.  Chris Bunch has a story where George Custer is born years later and ends up fighting in World War II, taking Patton's place after the latter meets an early and untimely end.  This was the only story to move a character in time rather than change an event, and it worked well.<br />Turtledove's contribution to the book is \\"Uncle Alf,\\" which takes place during 1929 and a German occupation of France and Belgium (clearly they were victorious in WWI).  While it's supposed to be a surprise who the narrator is, I figured it out quickly enough.  Kind of a light effort for ol' Harry.<br />It's a shame that Turtledove didn't do the editing workdespite getting his name on the cover.  A little bit of background would have improved this book.  But the question must be asked: are there really enough good alternative histories with generals to justify a second anthology?  Go buy Alternate Generals instead, as the stories are of better quality.	2002-08-26
US	52827802	R3C0NCYKYV192F	0425184730	599723568	Playdate with Death (Mommy-Track Mysteries)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	A Playdate With No Depth	I enjoyed this one, I think it's better overall than Waldman's second book, The Big Nap, because the plot doesn't seem as unbelievable.  Stay-at-home-mom Juliet is getting bored with the routine, and manages to get herself involved in another questionable death, that of her personal trainer.  While<BR>his death appears to be a suicide, that doesn't fit either his upbeat personality or his recent actions before dying (such as ordering electronics over the Internet).  Also, the two and a half year old, Isaac, comes along for some of the interrogations; while this might seem unbelievable at first, as a stay-at-home myself I found it realistic.<BR> <BR>Okay, it's well-written, it's fun to read, but I did figure out the twist before I should have, when Juliet gets a threatening phone call (I won't spoil it here), and Ruby seemed oddly flattened in this book.  After building Ruby up as stubborn and difficult in the first two books, and continuing to describe her that way in one section toward the end as a analogy for Juliet's own behavior, the 4-year-old child is completely cooperative in the book and in other sections is described as obedient and polite.  <br />Perhaps I'm unfairly comparing this book to the other ten mysteries I read in the course of the past week, written by Carl Hiaasen and Janet Evanovich; alas, Ayelet Waldman is not in their league (and few writers are).  Waldman also referenced Sue Grafton as a role model in the acknowledgements, and maybe she's closer to Grafton than the other two (because I think Grafton, while rather compelling, isn't as interesting or complete in the way she fills in background and character).  And unlike in her first two books, I feel Waldman here forgot to work on background because I got no sense of place in Playdate.  It could have easily taken place in Las Vegas, Louisville, or Little Rock instead of Los Angeles.  I wanted to taste the acrid tang of the smog, feel the curves of the Pacific Coast Highway, or be stuck in thesnarl of the 405 knowing that there are six different routes home and none are any faster.  Instead Juliet deals with an unsympathetic barrista at Starbucks, an Jewish family who disdains nonachievement, and a Catholic family who snub social inferiors; again, nothing about these people that requires them to live or die in L.A. <br />Though I learned nothing new about the Southland or its denizens, there was a moderately interesting subplot about genetic disease, testing, and populations.  Since a major plot point concerns the search by Juliet's (murdered?  suicided?) personal trainer for his birth parents, there's a discussion of Tay-Sachs disease and I discovered there is another subgroup at risk to this genetic disorder that I'd never heard about before.  While I always enjoy learning obscure information in my mysteries, perhaps others will find it either tedious or distracting.<BR> <BR>Still, definitely great beach reading, satisfying ending, and some further evolution of the main character as her children grow up.	2002-08-05
US	52827802	RKPZ98336H1A9	0064436438	720596339	But I Waaannt It!	Books	1	19	24	N	N	But I Haaaate It!	My children were attracted to the illustration on the cover, where Sammy is throwing a tantrum as his parents stand over him, and asked me to read the book to them.  It was a situation they could relate to: Sammy is shopping with his mom at the toy store, because they have to buy a present for his cousin.  Sammy wants toys for himself and throws a tantrum.  When his mom goes along with his demands and buys him every stuffed toy he pointed to, my kids laughed.  They knew I'd never go along with that kind of behavior, so they thought that the book was supposed to be a joke.<br />Later that night, Sammy goes to bed with his new hoarde of plush toys, and awakens because he can barely fit into his bed.  Then he's upset because he can't find his old favorite stuffy, Mr. Cat.  My son, who was 2 at the time, asked in disgust, \\"Why doesn't he throw some toys out his bed?\\"  Instead, Sammy agrees to donate all the new toys, the ones he got as a result of his tantrum, to a childrens' shelter.  Both my children found this ending unconvincing, each coming up with alternate suggestions for how Sammy should have solved the problem.  \\"He could put some of the toys in his closet.\\"  \\"He could put them on the shelf and sleep with just a few of them.\\"  \\"If he loves the cat best, then he should make sure it's on his pillow.\\"  \\"Why did his mom buy him all the toys when he was yelling in the store?\\"<br />My kids just love books, and if this one caused them so much annoyance I can safely say you should skip it.  While they liked the illustrations, I found them cloying (I guess their opinion is more important than mine, as they were 2 and 4 at the time).  And they felt let down at the end because they thought it would be a \\"silly\\" book, since the mom sure acted silly in buying him all those toys.  Instead they got a heavy-handed lecture about how things don't make you feel good, but people do.  (Oh?  If that's true, then why did Sammy need his old stuffed toy to feel secure.)  My daughter couldn't understand why Sammy got mad at the new toys, because in her experience, new toys in the bed are good.  <br />While I'm all in favor of teaching children that materialism and consumerism are not good character traits, this book is not the way to do so.  In fact, when this book was originally released, there was a PRODUCT TIE-IN with a toy Mr. Cat stuffy, completely obliterating the point of the story!<br />Parents and grandparents, do not buy this book, do not get it from the library, and do not borrow it from your friend.  It's awful, and I wish I could give it no stars instead of one.	2002-08-05
US	52827802	R8221HD1XOGDT	1891620800	449582025	A Question of Intent : A Great American Battle With A Deadly Industry	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Civics lesson that reads like a thriller	Wow.  Who would have thought a book on the history of the FDA's handling of tobacco regulation would read like a spy novel?  I grabbed this book off the new books shelf at the library, and picked it up expecting to skim through it.  Kessler begins with how he was chosen to head the FDA, and introduces several of his staff including the one who started him toward taking on the tobacco industry.  Then we get plenty of background including the history, marketing, and laws concerning tobacco.<br />With all the press on Big Tobacco, I expected them to be shown as fiendish.  I've been a member of Americans for Non-Smokers Rights for 20 years, and I've read all about the Industry's dirty tricks, and I fully expected to read about them again here.  What I didn't expect to find was the thoroughness in Big Tobacco attempted to discredit the FDA, and Kessler takes us through the political campaigns and counter-campaigns. He shows how Big Tobacco created fake advocacy groups on several issues, leading to their attempt to muzzle the FDA and cut off all their government funding.  If you remember the '94 Contract with America and the movement against Big Government, you'll be surprised to find how Big Tobacco co-opted it to fight the FDA, one of the more admired agencies.  <br />If you weren't already cynical about how the US government operates, this book will get you there, even with its descriptions of some of the good guys continually outmaneuvered by the bad ones.  Several congress members are shown to be captives of Big Tobacco, doing their dirty work with scripts written by their lobbyists and lawyers.<br />And speaking of lawyers, one of the most amazing revelations to me ok is how the tobacco industry became captives of their law firms!  Yes, instead of working for their clients, the law firms ended up calling all the shots, and the CEOs would read statements prepared by them.  The book covers how this came to be.<br />If you love looking of source material, you'll be busy.  Kessler leaves plenty of footnotes in this meaty book for your review.  My only complaint is that the book jumps around in places, as the story moves forward or back depending on the topic being covered.  But this is a small beef, as the material is so compelling.  Find out not only how cigarette's nicotine content was manipulated but how the industry tried to hide this obvious fact from FDA visitors to their manufacturing facilities.  Enjoy the victories and despair over the setbacks; this is a policy-wonk's book as written by a Tom Clancy wanna-be.	2002-08-05
US	52827802	R1YTT26EVPRARQ	0765300362	122891749	Rulers of the Darkness	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Life During Wartime	This is the fourth book in Harry Turtledove's _Darkness_ series, a fantasy retelling of WWII where there is no technology but plenty of magic.  Instead of airplanes, pilots ride dragons, they drop magic exploding eggs instead of bombs, and people ride ley-line caravans rather than trains (ley-lines are magical meridians that trained magicians can tap for many purposes, and the confluence of two lines creates power points).  Even the level of magic differs depending on which country Turtledove is writing about, corresponding with our world's distribution of engineering and manufacturing.  And then he describes, in passing, each country's dietary, musical, and physical traits, while showing that people are people the world over. <br />The same characters viewpoint characters from books 1-3 are back (except for those who managed to die), each being pulled in yet more directions as the Derlavaian War affects just about everyone.  While the first book was pretty much all soldiering, all the time, this one has pulled back from a lot (not all) of the fighting to show how civilians are affected too.  And some of the civilians have become fighters as well, just as the real WWII turned so many lives in new directions.<br />If you have not read Books 1-3 in the series, I'd suggest you do so before tackling this one.  Not only would the plot development make more sense, but so would each character's history.  It's very difficult to have an emotional stake in each character's adventures without their backstories, and each of them has a lot going on.  Sidroc, a soldier in King Plegmund's Brigade, joined the army to fight on behalf of occupying Algarve, and he did so to escape being charged with murder of his cousin Leifsig.  This book continues with both Sidroc and his cousin Ealstan's stories (yes, Ealstan was Leifsig's brother), but if you aren't aware of their relationship and how it soured over years, their slightly intertwined stories won't have the same effect.<br />One interesting plot development in this book is how Turtledove continues the fanstasy worldview that killing people releases magical energy, and how he retells WWII while using each country's history in our world with this additional fillip.  In this installment, Gyongyos (Japan) makes plans to use life energy, but not as Algarve does (murdering Kaunians, as the Germans killed Jews in death camps) or Algarve's enemy Unkerlant (killing their own peasants to fight back, as Stalin's Russia killed so many countrymen).  <br />The war grinds on, and there are many signs in this book of things falling apart.  Bembo, an Algarvian constable, wins a rare vacation from his duties in occupied Forthweg (Poland) and finds home isn't the same as when he left.  The resistance movement in Valmiera (France) continues with a lot of hit or miss, with some of its supporters changing sides when convenient.  And the tide turns in the Big War, as Unkerlant now has Algarve on the run after the latter loses yet another big battle in the southwest (think northeast, the entire planet is flipped upside down with Derlevai in the southern hemisphere with Unkerlant in the west.<br />Meanwhile, the equivalent of the Manhattan Project continues, but the Kuusamans (USA) still haven't officially entered the war, and their relationship with the Lagoans (British) isn't one of 100% trust yet.<br />What I love about Turtledove's books is how he can spin out a story with so many characters, get me to care about what happens, and get me thinking about how the real history went down while I read this world's version.  I wanted to know more about European history and politics in 1942 so I could more appreciate this book.	2002-07-30
US	52827802	R39RPU7B3BXK7V	0345444213	374292569	American Empire: The Center Cannot Hold	Books	4	6	7	N	N	The days crawl, the years fly	I've got to admit that I'm hooked on this series, even if I find myself reading these books without as much pleasure as I'd hoped to get.  What Turtledove does well is illluminate our history by playing with the alternate timelines and getting the reader to want to stop and think and maybe go out and buy a few history books to see what was changed.  While the multiple characters are enjoyable and the plots usually engrossing, this book covers so much time (nine years) that it's hard to really \\"know\\" them as we did in the previous books.  For example Mary, daughter of a Canadian terrorist or freedom fighter (depending on your politics), checks in with us every few years, at 11, 15, 17, and 20.  A typical person changes quite a bit through these ages but Mary keeps her rage toward the US and the need to avenge her father and brother as the major component of her sense of self.  Many episodes seem to need more detail, but Turtledove chose to cover so much ground that they seem too removed.  Cincinnatus Driver's illegal imprisonment by the Kentucky Secret Police was harrowing, but his eventual rescue is not just anti-climactic, it's almost lost.  I wanted to know more; what alerted Clarence Darrow to this case and how did he succeed?  Why does Darrow immediately leave and we never hear about him again?<br />Much of the book moves this way showing the birth and maturing of major character's children; in one scene a character's wife will be pregnant, in the next scene the child is five and a younger sibling has also arrived.  This happens enough times to give the sense that Turtledove used the Hanna-Barbera method of backgrounds, namely a continuous loop instead of sketching the whole thing properly.<br />But that said, I still couldn't put the book down because I wanted to know what was going to happen, even though the major thrust of the story, Jake Featherstone's political rise, seemed preordained, being cast to parallel, in our timeline, the failure and later successof Hitler.  <br />It's clear Turtledove has thought out the historical background carefully, and it's great fun to unearth some of the scaffolding.  I know I'll be reading these as he continues to write them.	2002-07-10
US	52827802	R33ZYW3Q2XV4BP	0060929960	40354766	The Ten Commandments: The Significance of God's Laws in Everyday Life	Books	1	46	72	N	N	The Significance of Laura's Law in Our Everyday Lives	Your editorial reviewer describes Laura as a &quot;Syndicated radio psychologist.&quot;  Well, two out of three ain't bad.  Laura is not a psychologist.  She has a Ph.D. in physiology (not psychology) and at one  time (but no longer) was in private practice as an MFCC (Marriage Family  and Children Counselor); this is a Masters Degree.  Laura's MFCC license in  California is no longer current.<br />This is important, because your  reviewer's error is understandable.  Since Laura gives advice, and uses the  &quot;Dr.&quot; title, listeners assume that she must have the appropriate  credentials.  She does not, and she does little to correct the errors  (recently a listener called her a psychologist and she did not correct  her).  This is a direct violation of the  Commandment not to bear false  witness, and with this simple illustration we can see how ironic it is for  Laura Schlessinger to be giving us her opinion of the Decalogue.  She  really has broken every one of them. <br />The oddest disparity in the book  was her spending four and half pages equating gossip with murder, but only  three paragraphs on  her own personal sin, hypocrisy, two of which  minimized its importance.  This is not a book about the Ten Commandments,  this is a book where Laura can beat up on her audience and feel superior to  then, while ignoring her own failures.  A woman who hasn't spoken to her  mother in fifteen years should not be lecturing us on how to honor our  parents.  A woman who calls the First Lady &quot;The Wicked Witch of the  East&quot; should not complain about today's youth disparaging authority  figures.<br />The woman is a complete and utter hypocrite.  And please change  your review above; she is NOT a psychologist.	2000-07-21
