US	52820689	R2FEACGGNL714C	0375503226	257789457	Flophouse: Life on the Bowery	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Eye-Opening	Turn away. Turn quickly away. My first instinct upon glancing at this title was consistent with Middle Class America's natural reaction to social despair. Cautiously intrigued, I reached to the top shelf in my suburban neighborhood's local library, and pulled down into my comfortable suburban world an enlightening pictorial in brief. With mixed horror and wonder, increasingly awed at these victims of circumstances, reading \\"Flophouse: Life on the Bowery\\" was a real look, a first look, into sunken faces and disheveled lives. Black and white photos say the thousand words their subjects never will. The human condition, bare, innate, is plainly presented without pretense or censoring. How very similar, how frighteningly normal, were the lives of these men before the loss of job, wife, or sanity deposited them here, teetering on the brink between life and death, heaven and hell, New York City's Bowery. Read this book, count your blessings and your spare dimes.	2002-02-03
US	52820689	RJOSGDIXIKSSI	0060929871	949556910	Brave New World	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Brave New Book: Beyond Literature, Into Life	Much has been conjectured about the prospect of Utopia. Moreover, the lack of it is equally puzzling. Since the 1930s, not much progress has been made in way of a Second Eden.  The slightest petty annoyance would have to be solved through the instantaneous release of popping a pill, for even mild societal upset would never do in Paradise and only sprout anarchical roots. Soma is the direct remedy to this conundrum, as Huxley readily admits, the benign and needle-free heroine guaranteeing a variety of \\"Life Lite\\" for dieters abstaining from reality. Huxley's experiences recorded in both \\"Heaven and Hell\\" and \\"The Doors of Perception\\" later detail the groundwork. Happiness, ever elusive, may only be achieved by its allusion; nominally, to convince people they are happy indeed. Hypnopaedia has potential for effectiveness certainly, provided that the opposers, sub-groups, etc. are gradually wiped out. \\"Benito\\" is doubtlessly a reference to Mussolini, a foreshadow of the coming day, heralding Communism, Socialism, and the other world powers attempting to achieve the mantra \\"everybody belongs to everybody else\\".  Lenina Crowne offers the slightly questioning character representative of the reader who silently questions social strategy, but isn't so concerned as to miss her next Recreation Party.<br /> Moreover, why do readers accept Huxley's Utopia when it has not been fulfilled in its nearly seventy years of preemptory discussion? For the same reason it interests them; the grass is perpetually greener on the other side of the proverbial fence, though where that boundary shall be drawn remains yet unknown. It is fulfilled in a sense by the act of reading itself. Helen Keller is correct in surmising that literature is utopia, though it may be more accurately described as a form of self-indulgent urban escapism. Literature itself is able to assume the unattainable perfection of daily life that our reality lacks.  It pretends no circumstance is too outrageous or too wonderful, seamlessly binding the tragic and the impossibly good. We accept these ethereal musings because they are fiction, the figment of another tangible human being's roving imagination, thus fulfilling our own. We yearn to believe that a perfect society on earth has the potential of existence, if only for those few vacuous moments on the written page.  Literature isolates the wishful thinking of all men: that the abstract qualities of perfection are somehow physically attainable. Imagine for a moment the magnitude of a utopia.  The world might be perfect, but would the human race be perfect in it?<br /> The answer lies in the greatest works of fiction themselves, generally a resounding negation which only reaffirms the basic engenderment of reality.  In the beginning, we're enamored with a new book, uncracked spine, smelling of fresh ink and Starbuck's coffee. We eagerly fall into someone else's world like Alice down the white rabbit's hovel, stealing away in our spare minutes to turn a few pages during the lulls of the day, and become progressively more or less enchanted as the story climaxes to a turn of events which we may or may not approve, a hermetic passion demanding sacrificial comfortable chairs and adequate lighting, the occasional pair of gold rimmed spectacles. Sooner or later, at the average approximation of four hundred pages, the book will end. The reader's opinion will have been formed, usually summarized to the effect of  \\"solid plot, poetic storytelling, mediocre ending\\", in laymen's terms. And the vicious circle, half price and half satisfying, begins anew with Oprah's latest selection of the month. In the volumes of critically acclaimed paperbacks, record breaking bestsellers, and classic works \\"of epic and timeless proportion\\" printed on cheap paper, lies the infinite potential of a fruitful quest, another chance at positively locating, identifying, and yielding our particular yen.  Throughout history, the unanimous craving for a happy ending is the only enduring theme not available at your local caf&eacute;/book nook, leaving the reader hungry for more than one volume's words of wisdom, but one hundred and one prospective opportunities of recognizing life's essence in black and white.<br />Moreover, the act of reading fine literature, short stories, or even the daily novelty of the newspaper, vaguely fulfills a nostalgia greater than ourselves. An inherent and indefinable necessity of mankind is the purpose of belonging. Idealistically, one reads the soul of the writer through his work, presuming he has any talent whatsoever. Be his ephemerally fated topic the romantic wooing of literature's immortalized Romeo and Juliet, the magic realism constituent of tumultuous but certain joy in the Buendia` family's solitude, or the fully recyclable, daily disposable, read-it-once-and-throw-it-away newspaper heading informing the world of some great event no one had considered yesterday. Life's daily joys and sorrows stew in a common melting pot, a recipe from a cookbook with cosmopolitan ingredients equally enjoyed by citizens of the world, a base point from which strangers may understand each other.<br />The reader's vocabulary is enriched, temporarily infused with the colorful expressions enumerated by a geographically diverse writer. His mind expands to another part of the world, guided along the cobbled streets of Medieval England, the worn footpaths of Macondo past Catarino's store on the Street of the Turks, the back alleys of Boston's Lower West Side or Germany's East End. In the quietude of one's own home, in the universal hubbub of the rush hour, a secondary entelechy is obtainable in an 11x8 inch square, not unlike a withdrawn office cubicle where the world makes sense because of a laptop and a corporate policy manual, but thanks to the benevolence of the author and Cliff's Notes. As proclaimed on an amazon.com bookmark, according to Christopher Morley, \\"When you sell a man a book, you don't sell him twelve ounces of paper and ink and glue - you sell him a whole new life\\".<br />Or at least, the prospect of a Brave New World.the only enduring theme not available at your local café/book nook, leaving the reader hungry for more than one volume's words of wisdom, but one hundred and one prospective opportunities of recognizing life's essence in black and white.  <br />Moreover, the act of reading fine literature, short stories, or even the daily novelty of the newspaper, vaguely fulfills a nostalgia greater than ourselves. An inherent and indefinable necessity of mankind is the purpose of belonging. Idealistically, one reads the soul of the writer through his work, presuming he has any talent whatsoever. Be his ephemerally fated topic the romantic wooing of literature's immortalized Romeo and Juliet, the magic realism constituent of tumultuous but certain joy in the Buendia` family's solitude, or the fully recyclable, daily disposable, read-it-once-and-throw-it-away newspaper heading informing the world of some great event no one had considered yesterday. Life's daily joys and sorrows stew in a common melting pot, a recipe from a cookbook with cosmopolitan ingredients equally enjoyed by citizens of the world, a base point from which strangers may understand each other.<br />The reader's vocabulary is enriched, temporarily infused with the colorful expressions enumerated by a geographically diverse writer. His mind expands to another part of the world, guided along the cobbled streets of Medieval England, the worn footpaths of Macondo past Catarino's store on the Street of the Turks, the back alleys of Boston's Lower West Side or Germany's East End. In the quietude of one's own home, in the universal hubbub of the rush hour, a secondary entelechy is obtainable in an 11x8 inch square, not unlike a withdrawn office cubicle where the world makes sense because of a laptop and a corporate policy manual, but thanks to the benevolence of the author and Cliff's Notes. As proclaimed on an amazon.com bookmark, according to Christopher Morley, \\"When you sell a man a book, you don't sell him twelve ounces of paper and ink and glue - you sell him a whole new life\\". <BR>Or at least, the prospect of a Brave New World.	2002-02-03
US	52820689	RS0D8VODA6MZ6	0316690155	658678874	Believing It All: What My Children Taught Me About Trout Fishing, Jelly Toast, and Life	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Refreshing Perspective	Marc Parent knows what it's all about: the small things. Maple syrup and cowboy boots. Autumn leaves and Play Doh. The ironic afternoon on that ordinary Wednesday with the ceaselessly crying baby, the gap-toothed kindergartner, chocolate milk dribbled on the good sofa, no-you-can't-have-another-cookie. And silently pleading for five quiet minutes to write one more paragraph...one more page...daddy will be right there. Although the work at home option is idealized in current society, \\"Believing It All: What my Children Taught Me About Trout Fishing, Jelly Toast, and Life\\" provides an accurate yet optimistic viewpoint, observing children with their uncomplicated lives, simple pleasures exchanged all too soon, and the commitment needed to juggle work/family in the same location. A memoir more interested in the everyday nothing that constitutes a life of something, it's surprisingly worth a read for the 20-something childless as well as the harried soccer Mom (or Dad) who can relate entirely too well. Stroller walks, afternoon naps, and tying shoes. The novelty of all the small things which so quickly pass away, yielding to  yellow school buses and the Nintendo blur. Laugh, cry, remember, anticipate, and perhaps most of all, face your brood with renewed mirth after an hour of peace and quiet reading alone on that milk-stained sofa.	2002-02-03
US	52820689	R3QTHAHNPJ041J	0743202449	153282297	Come Up and See Me Sometime: Stories	Books	2	7	13	N	N	&quot;It's Not What You Do - It's How You Do It.&quot;  - Mae West	Erika Krouse just may have something here. With all the splashy appeal of this month's Cosmo, &quot;Come Up and See Me Sometime&quot; reads like waiting room fodder tossed aside after piquing the interest, preoccuping the mind. Peruse this title with a Diet Coke while waiting for the bus, kicking gravel and smiling at the profound nothingness of nameless characters; there is no alterior meaning, no depth, no message. Shallow? Quite possibly. Well written? In a way. The method - dare I say art - of writing easily, fluidly, smoothly is enough somehow. This collection of short stories manages to squeeze by on one liners and the premise of single women enjoying themselves with no strings attached. Women whose next dilemma is who to sleep with next and how to leave that dull husband before he leaves you. Who's zooming who over cappuccino and scones with a nervously chatty girlfriend. A woman who doesn't want a baby but the perfect family photo. Women and the men who love them or at least convince themselves they do. This is the stuff super model laden magazines are made of, without the self-esteem drain. When inbetween issues of Glamour and Vanity Fair, &quot;Come Up and See Me Sometime&quot; promises glossy amusement if not genuine literature.	2001-10-27
US	52820689	R1M6A91P3WAQN6	0671727796	730655858	The Color Purple	Books	3	4	8	N	N	A Celebration of the Human Spirit?	As an objective study of racism, feminism, and personal development, &quot;The Color Purple&quot; stretches the limits of fiction in an unlikely narrative. It is difficult to determine the literary value of this book, as there is indeed a fine line between genius and insanity. What the novel imparts to its reader is debatable as well. At first glance, it appears a poorly written hodge-podge collection of an abused woman's diary entries, a black sympathy story whose publication can be justified by the author's ethnic heritage. There must, however, be something more. There is a certain quality, charisma, ambiance that is difficult to positively identify: Could it be hope?  The strength of the human spirit? The eventual triumph of its characters over their impoverished circumstances, motivated by personal ethos? If the color purple represents joie de vivre in strange places, the novel accomplishes its title mission. Perhaps I, the mystified reader, have missed the point entirely. An epic work of fiction this book is not; an exercise in reading between the R-rated lines seems more likely. Considering the minimal inspiration can be squeezed from pages dripping with violence, anger, confusion, bisexuality and despair, it is not for those reflective readers looking for the meaning of life on a Sunday afternoon. Finding some thematic value on an unlikely Wednesday is somehow satisfactory.	2001-10-10
US	52820689	R1WKJL3E6D6XR2	0671727796	730655858	The Color Purple	Books	2	2	7	N	N	A Celebration of the Human Spirit ?	As an objective study of racism, feminism, and personal development, &quot;The Color Purple&quot; stretches fiction's limits. Difficult to determine the literary value of this book, there is a fine line between genius and insanity. What the novel imparts to its reader is debatable as well. At first glance, it appears a poorly written hodge-podge collection of an abused woman's diary entries, a black sympathy story whose publication can be justified by the author's ethnic heritage. There must, however, be something more. There is a certain quality, charisma, ambiance difficult to positively identify: Could it be hope? The strength of the human spirit? The eventual triumph of eclectic characters over their impoverished circumstances, motivated by personal ethos? If &quot;The Color Purple&quot; represents joie de vivre in strange places, the novel accomplishes its title mission. Perhaps I, the mystified reader, have missed the point entirely. An epic literary work this book is not; an exercise in reading between the R-rated lines seems more likely. Regarding the minimal inspiration squeezed from pages dripping with violence, anger, confusion, bisexuality and despair, &quot;The Color Purple&quot; is not for those reflective readers looking for the meaning of life on a Sunday afternoon. Finding some thematic value on an unlikely Wednesday is somehow satisfactory.	2001-10-05
US	52820689	R2C7PGOXMTAVL4	0399147152	717731358	Troublemaker and Other Saints	Books	3	1	6	N	N	Smooth Short Stories: More than Meets the Eye	Suave and seductive, yet shockingly smart. Similar to your average Mitsubishi ad hiding behind slanted eyes and catchy tunes, Christina Chiu's &quot;Troublemaker and Other Saints&quot; appeals to the maturing Generation X, the twentysomethings who coined the phrase &quot;multitasking&quot; for that element of practical pleasure. Judging a book by its cover, this glossy eyecatcher could be the fluffy fodder touted by American women on their lunch breaks, in between Oprah's Book Club selections. The alluring graphics, tempered pages, and gapingly irreverent title aesthetically appeal to those quick-read junkies encouraged by the Nike swoosh to &quot;just do it.&quot; However, it may come as something of a revelation that this collected novella has some worth besides a fashionable coffee table muse. Cunning yarns are vaguely enchanting, reaching beyond the typical Asian mystique. Characters play with the reader's mind, seamlessly binding the work as a whole through the threads of vibrant personality. Lucid if not lurid ambiance plays an eclectic theme, promising that certain flawless ending even when essentially left unsaid. These tales are but reflections of ourselves in the vices we would rather ignore. The maxims of &quot;Troublemaker and Other Saints&quot; are Aesop's Fables for the 20th. Century, with more hope of remaining in the reader's already overloaded subconscious than the latest disposable paperback.	2001-10-03
US	52820689	ROYJ2HAEKV82D	0399147152	717731358	Troublemaker and Other Saints	Books	3	0	4	N	N	Smooth Short Stories: More than Meets the Eye	Suave and seductive, yet shockingly smart. Similar to your average Mitsubishi ad hiding behind slanted eyes and catchy tunes, Christina Chiu's &quot;Troublemakers and Other Saints&quot; appeals to the maturing Generation X, the twentysomethings who coined the phrase \\"multitasking\\" for that essential element of practical/portable pleasure. Judging a book by its cover, this glossy eyecatcher  could be the fluffy fodder touted by American women on their lunch breaks, in between Oprah's Book Club selections. The alluring graphics, tempered pages, and gapingly irreverent title aesthetically appeal to those quick-read junkies encouraged by the Nike swoosh to &quot;just do it.&quot; However, it may come as something of a revelation that this collected novella has some worth besides a fashionable coffee table muse. Cunning yarns are vaguely enchanting, reaching beyond the typical Asian mystique. Characters play with the reader's mind, seamlessly binding the work as a whole through the threads of vibrant personality. Lucid if not lurid ambiance plays an eclectic theme, promising that certain flawless ending even when essentially left unsaid. These tales are but reflections of ourselves in the vices we would rather ignore. The maxims of &quot;Trouble Makers and Other Saints&quot; are Aesop's Fables for the 20th. Century, with more hope of remaining in the reader's already overloaded subconscious than the latest disposable paperback.	2001-10-03
US	52820689	RBQ0MHR2ZF559	0399147152	717731358	Troublemaker and Other Saints	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Smooth Short Stories: More than Meets the Eye	Suave and seductive, yet shockingly smart. Similar to your average Mitsubishi ad hiding behind slanted eyes and catchy tunes, Christina Chiu's &quot;Troublemakers and Other Saints&quot; appeals to the maturing Generation X, the twentysomethings who coined the phrase \\"multitasking\\" for that essential element of practical/portable pleasure. Judging a book by its cover, this glossy eyecatcher  could be the fluffy fodder touted by American women on their lunch breaks, in between Oprah's Book Club selections. The alluring graphics, tempered pages, and gapingly irreverent title aesthetically appeal to those quick-read junkies encouraged by the Nike swoosh to &quot;just do it.&quot; However, it may come as something of a revelation that this collected novella has some worth besides a fashionable coffee table muse. Cunning yarns are vaguely enchanting, reaching beyond the typical Asian mystique. Characters play with the reader's mind, seamlessly binding the work as a whole through the threads of vibrant personality. Lucid if not lurid ambiance plays an eclectic theme, promising that certain flawless ending even when essentially left unsaid. These tales are but reflections of ourselves in the vices we would rather ignore. The maxims of &quot;Trouble Makers and Other Saints&quot; are Aesop's Fables for the 20th. Century, with more hope of remaining in the reader's already overloaded subconscious than the latest disposable paperback.	2001-10-03
US	52820689	R3G00MUAAIJKK3	0679640142	165741225	Up From Slavery	Books	4	3	5	N	N	More Alike Than Different	The social confines of race are a self-imposed form of slavery, figurative bonds which may be loosed only through the merit of magnanimous work. Much has been discussed in recent years about the topics of racial equality, minority education, and our national history regarding members of the African-American race. It cannot be denied that a great injustice has been served this particular ethnic group, but the future is each citizen's responsibility, black and white alike. Booker T. Washington's reflective memoir, \\"Up From Slavery\\" positively affirms the virtues of equal parts work and study for a mutually successful society, race notwithstanding.        As an autobiography chronicling Washington's humble beginnings in Confederate West Virginia among illiterate slaves to Boston society appealing to the socially prominent, \\"Up From Slavery\\" offers a contemporary view on race relations and the human condition. The narrative details Washington's childhood, contrasting the degrees of educational prosperity, domestic sanitation, and religious liberty with the unalienable provisions of slave owners. Washington illuminates the process of ascertaining an education against all odds, laboring in coalmines to afford night school, teaching eager black students, and finally dedicating his life's work to the renowned Tuskegee Institute. Rather tedious in these recollections, the book's plot is unnecessarily laden with exhaustive details and lacks depth in historical perspective. Given the time period in which it was written, there is margin for error in hypothetical suggestions for ethnic culmination, theorizing equal opportunities that did not materialize until seven decades later with desegregation.  Individual statements are debatable, such as Washington's idealistic perspective on racial harmony being a non-issue directly after the Civil War, which seems highly unlikely given the past hundred years of civil rights conflict. Explaining the process of rising above local circumstances is the plot's best feature flowing smoothly into a chronological process, specific and concise. It plainly states the South's oppressive environment without delving into racial sympathy, lending remarkable strength. Written with commendable intentions, undue criticism of the white majority is withheld, replaced by cautious optimism and a hopeful spirit. The plot in general follows a logical sequence highlighting one man's endeavors to strive for a better life in impoverished circumstances and his inspiration to freed slaves.  Typical of memoirs, the autobiography's focal point is Booker T. Washington's personal account and unique perspective. While other characters are not specifically elaborated, Washington is quick to credit his teachers, mentors, and benefactors in gracious tribute. Their admirable attributes are illuminated in model exemplification, deliberately but briefly identified. Not presenting thoroughly interesting characters for lack of breadth, the reader is focused on Washington himself rather than other outstanding individuals. His personal beliefs are well defined, confided in a trusting tone. Instead of feeling familiar with a cast of literary icons, the reader is acquainted with the author's own integrity and moral fiber. The main character is a sound representation of autobiographical focus, developed, interesting, and personal.   In spite of race and social position, hard work employs utmost application in striving to reach full potential and earnest effort begets its own reward. \\"The man who can do something that the world wants done will in the end make his way regardless of race My experience is that there is something in human nature which always makes an individual recognize and reward merit, no matter under what colour of skin merit is found.\\" Washington introduces his commentary on physical labor's role in mental preparation with that solid statement, proven true the world over. People are generally more alike than different, unitedin faith, hope and love, set to the same toil with the same ultimate goal.  \\"Up From Slavery\\" `s central theme corresponds with reality's unprejudiced outcome of individual prosperity through rigorous application.    In a progressive attempt to improve society, citizens are bound not by the iron chains of a ruling majority's tyranny but a communal commitment to self-improvement. Although borders, language and culture differentiate ethnic civilizations, their people endeavor for the same fundamental mores. Education, religion, freedom, and a reasonable level of personal satisfaction are sought by all races. Black and white, Asian and Latin American. Catholic, and Jewish, Buddhist and Baptist. English and Spanish, Mandarin and Ebonics.  Beneath any layer of flesh, colored or pale, blood runs red as slavery's symbolic rose. People share their humanity if not their race, undivided for the betterment of our society through collective ability. The continuing popularity of Booker T. Washington's \\"Up From Slavery\\" originally published in 1903 has fostered universal awareness for nearly one person at a time by appealing to the heart, the mind, and the common human soul. When an individual improves his mind, converges the efforts of bodily work and recognizes the plight of fellow human beings, his life is changed. The world glows with the amber of hope for a united future, one person at a time.	2001-06-20
US	52820689	R3JKO1FNC2NSI4	0688128971	619398024	Lilly's Purple Plastic Purse	Books	5	3	4	N	N	&quot;'Wow',they said. That was just about all they could say...&quot;	&quot;Lilly's Purple Plastic Purse&quot; is an intelligent and sophisticated parable for the modern child. Entirely convincing in its portrayal of life's lessons, readers learn through Lilly's misadventures the mechanics of socially responsible behavior. Thoroughly entertaining, it is ideal for children ages 3-8, particularly those entering nursery school or the primary grades with examples of cause and effect (namely inappropriate action results in punishment while compliance is rewarded). Expressive texts with detailed and often humorous illustrations are sure to prompt cheers for more. Fun and memorable, Lilly is an endearing character who would dare declare herself queen of children's literature. Readers just might agree.	2001-04-10
US	52820689	RMZB2EY3HD3SX	0375411275	367665573	Pobby and Dingan	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Ozzie Tale Relies on Childlike Faith for Charming Fiction	Plainly written, the less-than-one-hundred page narrative &quot;Pobby and Dingan&quot; ends before it begins, but manages to capture local color. Set in Australia's opal mining camps, subtle slang phrases seep irrevocably into one's mental sphere where dusty images of all that is typically Down-under loom large. A trip to your local Outback Steakhouse or yet again watching Helen Morse and Bryan Brown lisp the King's English in &quot;A Town Like Alice&quot; seems suddenly a richly authentic experience. An easy and earnest read, this unpretentious novella can be experienced in a single sitting. Although relying heavily upon the reader's acceptance of the ethereal without rational basis, it is decidedly charming in its own rite. The faith of a child holds true without proof or definition. And perhaps the world would be a better place if each held his own eccentricities for no other reason than the desire to believe in something greater than ourselves. Read &quot;Pobby and Dingan&quot; to rediscover the power of individual belief with communal hope through all things Australian. Further writing from Rice is eagerly anticipated, particularly continuing in this post-modern method.	2001-04-09
US	52820689	R1S09QMRZIBJ3W	0060197250	700061918	Model Patient: My Life As An Incurable Wise-Ass	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Live It Up and Never Give It Up	She's ill, not ill-willed! Masked in a memoir about coping with disease, Karen Duffy uses jaded humor to exact happy-go-lucky revenge on the doom and gloom of well intended but ultimately pathetic sympathizers. Instead of focusing negatively on pain or privacy, she elaborates what few people have, most of us envy, and she's fighting to keep: success. However, \\"success\\" pales in accordance with the face of illness when health drips out of an IV tube. Her former life was perhaps a literally picture perfect standard, interrupted but never crushed by illness. She's not the life of the party anymore, but no wilting pansy either! Who doesn't secretly covet money, dream of wild parties til ungodly hours, crave liquor and chocolate splurges, unlimited funds and flawless beauty? Even for those among us too upright to admit it, some particle of our being does recognize the allure and the illusion of youth's freedom unfettered. Despite the circumstances, Duff lives it up and never gives it up, but isn't too self-absorbed to skip Mass the next morning or share personal insights during a spinal tap.  Surprisingly down-to-earth, \\"Model Patient\\" is a wickedly irreverent take on illness that cuts through the fluffy fodder of pop culture's glamour and glitz, but refuses to dwell on sickness and suffering.  Highlighting \\"good days\\" but being realistic about the bad ones, it appeals to the common heart and soul, the quality beyond success: sincerity.	2001-03-07
US	52820689	R17T1TX4WHTDQ0	2266082752	521411351	Cyrano de Bergerac (Pocket Classics) (French Edition)	Books	4	0	6	N	N	Better to Have Loved and Lost....	Cyrano de Bergerac, the character, the play, the legacy, is a timeless literary herald due to its theme. Existence in a contrived reality constitutes a standard motif of Romanticism. Literature itself is able to assume the bittersweet but themed predictability that concrete reality lacks. It pretends no circumstance is too outrageous or too wonderful, seamlessly binding the ruthlessly sinister and the impossibly good. A contrived existence in literature can be interpreted as a dream world in which the character chooses to envelop himself, blocking out society's standards and inverting the impossible. This shadow often sadly results in the opposite of the character's original intentions because it is surreal. The main use of this method by Cyrano is in writing sonnets for Christian's dictation to Roxane. In an abstract way, Cyrano vents his own feelings, but credits his the resulting glory to a handsome prot&eacute;g&eacute;. A secondary example is the finality in Roxane's tragic statement upon realizing that it was the dying Cyrano she loved, and not Christian. \\"I never loved but one man in my life, and I have lost him twice\\". She has finally allowed the vale of deception to be lifted, finding in its place a life misspent. Not unlike a certain Shakespearean character of the same era, she realizes herself to be a woman who has loved not wisely but well. Shaped by a theme of false reality's ultimately unhappy demise, the play is an extraordinary work magnifying life's complications.	2001-01-17
US	52820689	RZQGHI88HK206	0515102652	466934211	The Cat Who Talked to Ghosts (The Cat Who...)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	&quot;Cat Who&quot;.... Presents Homey Atmosphere	In keeping with traditional &quot;Cat Who...&quot; conundrums, this particular offering of feline intrigue ties with hushed family secrets in a light hearted mood sure to please fans and first timers alike. Its writing style is relaxed, the characters whimsical, and the setting so realistic, one might feel the nip of November's breeze in Moose or another county's quaint villa universally known as Pickax by any other name, Somewhere or Anywhere USA. The central appeal of small town life is a recurring theme, for the roots which have given us wings beckon now and again. Similarly, Don McClean's song &quot;Castles in the Air&quot; exemplifies perhaps the theme song of James Qwilleran, a divorcee and a recovering alcoholic who is indeed not a part of the cocktail generation, but a prying newspaperman/unlikely detective in mufti. &quot;But how can words express the feel of sunlight in the morning, in the hills away from city strife? ... I'm city born, but I love the country life&quot;. A calmly paced mystery, &quot;The Cat Who Talked to Ghosts&quot; allows readers to enjoy the rural scenery, converse with the locals at the Dimsdale Diner and gather strains of gossip which just might reveal the details of a quietly arranged &quot;accidental death&quot;. Iris Cobb, staple character of the series, has been hastily obliterated it seems, and the population of Pickax/Moose County/ Down Below has surely diminished since our heroine's arrival on the scene. However, for the sake of country charm and a predictable yet satisfying mystery, this selection is recommended for city folks from Down Home, those among us who drive our SUV's, drink decaf latte, and listen to Garrison Keilor hailing from Lake Wobegon.	2000-12-20
US	52820689	R2EF3WRLIP8P0B	0515102652	882572736	The Cat Who Talked to Ghosts (The Cat Who...)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	&quot;Cat Who&quot;.... Series Presents Homey Atmosphere	In keeping with traditional &quot;Cat Who...&quot; conundrums, this particular offering of feline intrigue ties with hushed familial secrets in a light hearted mood sure to please fans and first timers alike. The style is relaxed, the characters whimsical, and the setting so realisitic, one might feel the nip of November's breeze from Down Below in the Moose or any other county's quaint villa known as Pickax by any other name. The central appeal of small town life is a recurring theme, for the roots which have given us wings beckon now and again. As with the Tod Rundgren song &quot;Castles in the Air&quot;, Qwill is not a part of the cocktail generation, but a newspaperman in mufti. A calmly paced mystery, &quot;The Cat Who Talked to Ghosts&quot; allows readers to enjoy the rural scenery and converse with the locals at the Dimsdale Diner while gathering strains of gossip which just might produce the clue to a quietly arranged &quot;accidental death&quot;.	2000-12-20
US	52820689	R3P24Z7JK0DU63	0515101230	997569693	The Cat Who Went Underground	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Country Landcape Offers Mystery, Mirth	&quot;The Cat Who Went Underground&quot; by Lilian Jackson Braun hosts a conglomeration of puzzle pieces, the seemingly tranquil backwoods scene, which eventually reveal murder when fitted together. The eccentricities of  Mooseville' s fine residents are detailed in familial anecdotes, liberally  seasoned with a hint of humor, generously heaped with countrified  sentiment. More mirth than mystery, the usual object of 'whodunit' is  replaced by the all-important concept of motive. While the murderer's  identity is immediately made apparent, conditional circumstances complicate  the catly conundrum. Wit, deductive reasoning, and general observation are  the detective's timeless tools, be it Holmes and Watson in London, or Qwill  and Koko in Mooseville. A thoroughly enjoyable read, sure to please devoted  \\"Cat Who\\" enthusiasts charmed by setting, standard citizen's small town  secrets, and the solace of solving a serial murder mystery.	2000-07-31
US	52820689	R3MA7LFY11D3SS	0515099546	156951285	The Cat Who Sniffed Glue	Books	4	3	8	N	N	Amusing Complexity	&quot;The Cat Who Sniffed Glue&quot; follows in its typically serial vein with the usual fluffy fodder of feline fancies, but enhanced with a more sinister plot. While most assuredly not bordering on lurid, it is a welcome  spin on the usual &quot;Cat Who...&quot; entertainments. Written as a play,  it is piquantly refreshing due to familiar characters but change of  setting, hosting the thrillingly suspenseful atmosphere of the theatre.  &quot;The Cat Who Sniffed Glue&quot; rises above preceeding installments  with Braun's usual wit and the perpetual fascination of whodunit.  Delightfully cunning!	2000-06-26
US	52820689	R3CKCMWTT2EHO9	0446672211	17564972	Where the Heart Is	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Reflective Small Town Saga Tainted With Humor, Hope	\\"I have always depended upon the kindness of strangers\\".     <br />   Blanche's famous line from \\"A Streetcar Named Desire\\" could be Novalee Nation's own theme in \\"Where the Heart Is\\". Unwed and unwanted, a teenage  girl forcedly old beyond her seventeen years has succumbed to a typical  state of white-trash dependency. Abandoned by a deadbeat boyfriend in the  local Wal-Mart of Sequoia, Oklahoma, Novalee has little choice but to  literally camp out, \\"borrowing\\" the essentials for herself and her unborn  child. This homemade tale of small town trivialities is poignantly written  in a confiding style, embracing the human experience's general appeal:  People with messy yards and messy lives, rusted out cars sagging against  grimy sheds or forgotten lilac bushes, and dilapidated trailer courts with  flowering kale growing in Folger's Coffee cans. Always, the same people who  look alike and talk alike, differentiated by peculiar names and equally  wacky quirks. Sister Husband, who saves wheat pennies, distributes Biblical  chapters and cheese samples at the IGA,Dixie Mullins, a beautician who  hears gossip not through the grapevine but through the grave, Lexie Coop,  superstitious but optimistic single mother of five; Mr. Sprock, strangely  emotional, Moses Whitecotton, sagacious mentor, Forney Hull, reservedly  brilliant, and Willy Jack, a loser who never cared for himself, let alone  anyone else. The average individual can relate to this cast of  stereotypical characters because they are the people we know. See Dixie  Mullins as your mother-in-law, Lexie Coop could be your best friend, and in  your uncle, one might recognize a hint of Moses Whitecotton. The plot   comes full circle with Willy Jack inevitably attaining what he deserves  completed by the courage to recognize it. Novalee Nation earns her way to  success with the unconditional support of a close knit community, guided by  Sister Husband's admonition &quot;Home is the place that'll catch you when  you fall, and we all fall&quot;. \\"Where the Heart Is\\" triumphs with a  descriptive collaboration of love, loss, and everything in between.	2000-06-11
US	52820689	R3DU6IROL6C5UT	039914286X	103586426	The Cat Who Could Read Backwards	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Charming Introduction to Entertaining Series	&quot;The Cat Who...&quot; series by Lillian Jackson Braun offers the lighter side of literary fare. These feline mysteries are mild murder cases intended to be read casually by the fire with a mug of cocoa and a cat on  your lap. Pass the hours on breezy Summer evenings or eternal Winter nights  with Qwilleran, his quirky compatriots, and of course, two saucy Siamese.  &quot;The Cat Who Could Read Backwards&quot; is the quintessential mystery,  unparalled by its following satirical escapades.	2000-06-11
US	52820689	R145ZFHC10FOA4	0590490974	472368802	Meet the Authors and Illustrators:Volume 1 (Grades K-6)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Essential and Inspirational	&quot;Meet the Authors and the Illustrators, Volume One&quot; is both a mental and a physical tool for young readers because it has the potential to either spark or further encourage their interest in books. Photocopying  individual worksheets is not prohibited, as noted in the copyright  information, and would be instrumental as a classroom reference for every  child. Suggested activities proposed by the featured professionals, coupled  with the insight each has volunteered in their previously presented  interview, foster an atmosphere of literary acceptance. A definition of  writing styles, solutions for writer's block, the importance of researching  and rewriting, as well as the source of an author's ideas are presented  with each profile in a transcriptual style, answering the intuitive  reader's silent questions. Favorite childhood authors, such as Dr. Seuss,  produce juvenile memories, while more advanced novels invite the reader to  explore for himself. One of the most valuable assets of this collaboration  is its tangible insistence that authors and illustrators are indeed  ordinary people, coping with the challenges of creativity in the same ways  as young people. Photographs, biographical synopsis, and bibliographical  summaries also provide familiarity, reinforcing the concept of average  people with extraordinary talent. If an open book is an open mind,  &quot;Meet the Authors and the Illustrators&quot; is an essential  introduction to the halls of literature.	2000-05-21
US	52820689	R2WVXEZ5Y3HQKA	0590085301	389408036	Family Nobody Wanted	Books	4	1	6	N	N	Testimony of Divine Providence	Although not a great literary work, &quot;The Family Nobody Wanted&quot; compensates for lack of intellectually challenging subject matter by pathos alone, enriching the reader's empathy. Written in a sweeping, brusque,  1950's style of sentiment, its underlying backbone of sincerity connects  with familial humor to produce a worthwhile novel. It successfully leaves  the reader satisfied and even mildly inspired by the Doss Family's example  of patient trust in Divine Providence.	2000-05-02
US	52820689	R1O2Y6278C4OWR	0553274295	375745868	Where the Red Fern Grows	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Tried and True Coming of Age Classic	&quot;Where the Red Fern Grows&quot; is a powerful saga of adolesence and all the lessons looming in its accomplishment. This book provokes one's own memories, in a simple yet frankly down home style that warms the heart and  stirs the soul. The main character, Billy, is presented in a confiding way.  He is tenacious, perseverant, and self-reliant. Anything he receives in  life is not handed to him; in the spirit of his forefathers, he works for  every material thing ever needed. He is consistent with the times and  geographic location. This fact is apparent both stylistically and in  Billy's developed idiosyncrasies. Use of the pronoun \\"I\\" adds interest and  realism to the context, giving the illusion of Billy actually recollecting  and delivering the story. He reasons in a way that would be typical of a  boy his age, uses amusing Southern phrases that fit his cultural  upbringing, and is acute in detail, as though clearly remembering noted  incidents. Uncommon expressions such as \\"Old Dan bawled treed\\" or \\"the  grinning Ozark moon\\" with misuse of the King's English, (that is, incorrect  verb tenses, and use of the slang term \\"ain't\\") are characteristic of the  setting. Narration in the first person is attentive to use of trifling  details. Earthy, picturesque descriptions fill the reader's mind, with  abundant adjectives. One can almost feel the hot sun in one scene, or the  tension as some hunting tale climaxes in another.   The author of the book,  Wilson Rawls, is optimistic about life. His writing reflects pleasant  adolescent memories, proudly recalled. The feeling is upbeat; the story is  positive, despite mishaps and obstacles without which it would appear  contrived.  Though not sappy or overdone, only bittersweet, its simple  hunting adventures are tainted with unabashed poignancy. Everyone achieves  what it is he desires through patience and hard work. It is a homespun  sentiment of Americana, a fulfillment of the American Dream.	2000-04-10
US	52820689	R3CW4SKYVOIRZD	0553213342	569473707	Sense and Sensibility (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Faux and Filigree: Pre-Victorain Complications	This review is my personal commentary on &quot;Sense and Sensibilty&quot; and, as such, explains and analyzes the novel. Eleanor Dashwood, the main character, is an example of a young woman's position in eighteenth century  England. Her dependent situation in a typical Pre-Victorian setting  introduces the reader to a common stereotype of the times. Miss Dashwood, a  prospective bride at the tender age of nineteen, possesses adequate beauty  and genteel manners making her attractive to select suitors. Chestnut hair,  rosy cheeks, and plump figure serve her well, in accordance with the latest  standard of femininity. However, she is a victim of circumstances. Her  father's recent death has left the meager dowry of one thousand pounds,  which presents the illusion of an unfavorable marriage As there exists  minimal monetary gain, any match would be for the companionship of Eleanor  alone. The equilibrium of both attractiveness and virtue offers an amiable  personality. Although she is reserved almost to the point of appearing  indifferent, the case is quite contrary. She sacrifices personal feeling to  uphold and protect the reputations of any worthy acquaintance amid  slanderous social gossip. These qualities of self-control, prudence, and  nobility are exemplified in daily life.  Perhaps they are best noted in her  treatment of Lucy Steele, an undermining ninny who neither desired nor  expected Eleanor's kindness. Eleanor's selflessness is her most outstanding  characteristic, as seen in constant care and consideration for those around  her. When her own heart is aching under the strain of Edward Ferrars'  impending marital rejection, she suppresses it to help her younger sister  Marianne heal from Willoughby's own recent announcement to wed another.  Even against the incogitant avarice of the former fianc&eacute;s she bears no  lasting grudge. The unprejudiced man who seeks Eleanor Dashwood would have  to be satisfied on these terms, as they are more precious thanfortune,  though rarely esteemed in a material world. The conflict of this book that  will intrigue most readers is recognized in the title. Sense, comprised of  the model attributes of Eleanor, opposes sensibility, a glamorous  self-indulgence.  It is sensibility that governs the outrageous conduct of  Eleanor's and Marianne's former fianc&eacute;s. Lucy Steele, ignorant of Eleanor's  affiance to Edward, confides in her of their own secret engagement four  years previously. Lucy is beneath the Ferrars family in class and fortune,  therefore making their future marriage a disgrace. Willoughby's guise is  still worse. He has fathered an illegitimate child with a scoury maid,  unconcernedly teasing the affections of many an earnest young woman.  Unbeknownst to Marianne, he is currently betrothed to Miss Gray, daughter  of a gentleman and recipient of a forty thousand pound dowry. These  hindrances, intended for personal amusement, have now blinded them both to  true love. The ceaseless appetite of sensibility has devoured their past  and is eyeing the present. Will it be allowed to overtake weakened wills?  The climax, predictably tragic, is inevitable for such foolish young men. A  third party reveals the secret arrangement between Edward and Lucy, thus  Mrs. Ferrars' anger resolves her to transfer the inheritance of eldest son  to the other brother, Robert. Eleanor is resigned to believe he will wed  the luxurious Miss Morton as arranged by his mother. Marianne receives a  formal letter from Willougby informing her that any such engagement must be  entirely a figment of her clever imagination, a sort of wishful thinking  for a girl of her social position. This throws her into a desperate  melancholy, which leads to potentially fatal illness. Everyone is at this  point unhappy or unfulfilled in his or her expectation of the future. A  complicated code of social formality coupled with personal confusion checks  the true desires of each.The resolution to all these issues, however,  swiftly materializes. Upon learning that Edward would no longer be the  endowed heir Lucy desired to marry, her affections quickly change to  Robert. Edward then realizes that he never really loved the fickle Lucy,  and relies on sense to direct him back to forgiving Eleanor. Willoughby is  not so lucky in his domestic outcome. He forgoes personal happiness to  marry Miss Gray, as his own fortune has diminished. Ironically, a breach  from sensibility occurs after he has taken a pint of liquor, and he  confesses his true feelings about Marianne. He acknowledges all that has  been lost for the gain of cold, inanimate money. Marianne recovers from her  lovesick illness, and marries a family friend who deserves her. All is well  in the marrying off of the Dashwood sisters; their fianc&eacute;s attain whatever  it is that they desired and deserved in the first place. Despite mishaps  and malignancies along the way, sense triumphs over sensibility. I would  higly recommend this book to anyone interested in the gentry of the times,  or is a fan of Jane Austen. It is truly one of her finest works, set in  flowing language and adequate print. The paperback edition is fine for  study, but I would select another for one's family library.	2000-02-10
US	52820689	R2B4BCA0CB80JA	0670886939	928300055	Hitler's Pope: The Secret History of Pius XII	Books	1	9	16	N	N	Alarming Ignorance, Shameful Proposition	Just when Catholics are trying to actively promote good relationships between themselves and Jews, as is the instruction of Pope John Paul II,  this bombshell drops.  All Catholics should and do respect the Jews for  their Biblical influence (the entire Old Testament), and certainly as a  good God-fearing people. This book is absolutely false.  The very idea that  the Pope &quot;didn't do enough to save the Jews&quot; was the theme of a  popular post-war play, and has since become falsely accepted fact. The  Holocaust is the saddest tradgedy of the twentieth century, and the  Catholic Church tried its best. It made numerous statments at the time  speaking out against the persecution of any people due to race or religion,  although the Jews were not mentioned by name because the very word (Juden)  threw Hitler into a rage. The Vatican, having done so once, witnessed the  assimilation of thousands of Catholics from Jewish ancestory, such as St.  Edith Stein.  No one seems to remember that Catholics died in the  concentration camps as well, or that the Church saved thousands of Jews by  hiding them in convents, monasteries, and private residences.  For a more  historically acurate view of the Vatican's involvment during the Holocaust,  see the article featured in &quot;Our Sunday Visitor&quot; this past month.	1999-10-25
US	52820689	RRRK6JKHBTRN7	0898061865	187012716	As I Remember: An Autobiography by Lillian Gilbreth	Books	4	67	67	N	N	An insightful reminisence	After reading &quot;Cheaper by the Dozen&quot;, &quot;Belles on their Toes&quot;, and &quot;I'm a Lucky Guy&quot;, this book filled in the essential details for throughly understaning the Gilbreth lifestyle.  The  aforementioned children's books provoked my interest, leading me to seek  further information on this remarkable family. This book, aimed at the  adult level,  depicts in acute detail Dr. Lillian Gilbreth's family  history, childhood, education, and motion study work. Exciting recolletions  of work and travel fill this volume, which is entrancing form cover to  cover. The style in which this book was written provokes thoughts of  listening to a warm elderly woman, carefully sharing how a shy child became  a &quot;pioneer&quot; in women's work, and a marvel in her day. There are  numerous typographical and grammatical errors in the text, which are  pardonable if the reader considers that these are the actual written words  of Dr. Lillian Gilbreth, apparently unedited.  The only other  disappointment is that this manuscript was unpublished for so many decades  that it has not been updated.  It does not elaborate on her lasting  contributions to industrial engineering today, nor does it reveal which of  her children are still surviving.  However, there are many useful addresses  and contacts mentioned that would provide some update on the issues of  industrial engineering.  I would recommed this book to anyone interested in  the life and work of Lillian Gilbreth or her field, as she should be an  inspirational role model for all young women.	1999-01-17
US	52820689	R3EWDFT50BB3TU	0064470423	283110171	The Journey Back	Books	3	11	12	N	N	Bittersweet	Although this book is an insightful recountanance of the rebuilding process after World War II, it does not completly fulfill the reader's interest in happened to Annie and her family later.  It still has Johanna  Reiss' intuitive, touching writing style, but fails to explain what becomes  of the characters decades later.  It instead depicts only about a year in  their lives, in which a few eventful but rather unimportant things happen.   It also leaves many questions unanswered that were presented and dwelled  upon.         I cannot imagine understanding or enjoying this book if I had  not read its predecessor, &quot;The Upstairs Room&quot; first.  The short  introduction provided would fail to adequately aid someone who had not  previously read the latter to understand the depth and humanity of this  saga.           I am pleased to say, however, that it is well written, sad  yet strangely joyous, and thoughtful; all the qualities that give a book  the potential to be a good one.  If you are looking for Annie's complete  life story post war, it will be fairly disappointing, but if you are merely  interested  in what occurs immediately afterward, this book is ideal.	1998-11-17
US	52820689	RC743EQFE0OKX	1885608039	348466202	A Mom's Life	Books	1	0	5	N	N	Pessimistic Drivel	It is a shame that this book made it to print when there are so many other worthy manuscripts out there, waiting to be published.  This book was so negative about the aspects of having children, I contemplated trashing it before donating it to our local library so that no one else would make the mistake of actually putting out money for it.  Yes, parenting causes a lot of personal sacrifice and lifestyle changes, but not in such a way that one dislikes their children, as Mrs. Grody seems to.  This book was written in a manner that suggests that children are an enormous burden; it is supposed to be humorous, but manages to leave you disgusted, rather than laughing. The flower-child of a mother depicted seems to have more regard for Green Peace than for her own children.  It would be best to find a book by Erma Bombeck if you are in need of a good-natured, tasteful laugh about the trials of child rearing.	1998-06-28
US	52820689	RZJ0H8P8SBU8N	1558002065	31287929	The Joy Luck Club	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An amazing and rare peek into the powerful Chinese culture!	I am a 12 year girl who read this book at ten, and have read it 4 times since! I find something more profound each time, such as humility, obedience, etc.  It has given great interest in Chinese culture, and has inspired me to write my own story of a Chinese family.  Absolutely Spellbinding!                                                (Callie Collins)	1998-01-11
