US	52833768	R1H1EEWX96HYIS	0385319851	308110394	At Weddings and Wakes	Books	4	4	6	N	N	In relation to relatives	A familiar story, the pathos of Irish Catholics in 20th century America, told with skill, grace, lament.  Readers of McDermott's &quot;Charming Billy&quot; will feel right at home in this story as well, although this is probably the more skillfully done of the two.  The author attempts several more challenging devices - the viewpoint of the children, the discontinuous timing and a repetition of the final scene for effect - most of which works.  The richness of the descriptions and the characters, the familiarity of the scenes, evoking a sense of longing for what is past and irrecoverable, or what was desired and never attained (the view of the child).  The writer's feel for the female characters is deeper and more evoked - but then women live in a world of beauty that men will never know.  McDermott's writing talent is extraordinary - but as with &quot;Charming Billy&quot; her storytelling skills lag behind her literary skills.  Still, thoroughly enjoyable scenes of life - family relationships, the working and middle class in early urban America moving into the wider scene of suburbia - for better or worse, marking well the landmarks as they appear and recede.	2001-09-11
US	52833768	R1WJ7URSB1ZUA7	0140165614	116378185	Guadalcanal: The Definitive Account of the Landmark Battle	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Campaign that changed the War in the Pacific	Most references to World War Two in the Pacific cite the decisive American victory at the Battle of Midway as the turning point in that conflict - the high tide of Japanese aggression. This book carefully refutes that position. The Japanese were still on the offensive after Midway (in part because the Japanese Navy neglected to inform the Japanese Army of the loss of four front line fleet carriers in that battle). The Japanese were still fully capable of seizing and severing American lines of communication with Australia - depriving the U.S. of a required base for future offensive operations. The dual campaigns in New Guinea and Guadalcanal from August 1942 to January 1943 (both resulting in successful Allied counter-offensives) represented the critical shift from the strategic defensive to the offensive for the Allies for the balance of the war. As Frank so ably demonstrates, there was nothing inevitable about the six-month struggle in the southern Solomons that started when the First Marine Division went ashore August 7, 1942. Both sides suffered significant setbacks and suffered from leadership lapses at critical junctures. In the end, it was the U.S. superiority in high command decisions and material that seemed to tilt the balance. The Japanese were surprised and very slow to believe that the U.S. was committing itself to an offensive campaign so early in the war. An objective analysis reveals that the Japanese had every reason to be surprised and U.S. leaders had every reason to be pessimistic as to the final outcome, especially after the early disaster at the Battle of Savo Island revealed relative U.S. weakness in surface ship actions. Guadalcanal came to be known as Starvation Island for the Japanese and the U.S. also came to recognize the conflict as a battle for logistics supremacy - which equated to air and sea supremacy, while soldiers and marines suffered tropical deprivations and hard fighting against a fanatical foe on the ground. Frank's work attempts to tell the complete story - air, sea and land - and he is successful. No mean feat. His research casts new light on an aging but important subject. As the World War Two generation fades into the past, it is all the more important to to reassess the history and importance of these events. Guadalcanal the history by Frank is a landmark study on perhaps the critical campaign of the entire cataclysm that was the War in the Pacific.	2001-09-11
US	52833768	R27RNSQWTJF83X	0688008208	496458262	A Good Man in Africa	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Brit High Brow Laid Low	There are few enjoyments in life better than a direct, unfettered comedic form told in literary style - here is an example. No pretense, no glossing over the low points of life - however base - but never yieldng in style. It is possible to be really funny and intelligent at the same time. A great run-through of the British pretense for class and superiority - there is absolutely nothing superior in the end that has anything to do with these British Foreign Service types pretending to be somebody in third world Africa. Morgan Leafy's pretensions and attempts to satisfy his inner cravings - inevitably ending in disaster and ever plunging disgrace - often foiled by the good Dr. Murrary (who is everything Leafy should be but is not) are hilarious. Boyd's descriptions of Leafy's drunken bumblings and the horrible hangovers that ensue are just plain funny. The social commentary on British attempts at understanding - much less improving - the &quot;colonial&quot; cultures they presume to lead is priceless. Sad that this great and funny read is out of print - but well worth tracking down a copy in the &quot;used&quot; section.	2001-09-11
US	52833768	R32WS4XRYVC0EG	0807826243	998807154	Gettysburg--The First Day (Civil War America)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Another Standard on the Meeting Engagement	I awaited the arrival of Pfanz's The First Day with great anticipation - having read his treatment of the second day and used it as the standard for walking the southern end of the battlefield and understanding the events of 2 July 1863.  This work lives up to the great expectations generated by Pfanz's earlier work.  It is - without a doubt - the standard treatment of how much can be known about who was where when and in what force, who said what when, on 1 July, 1863 where the roads meet at Gettysburg.  If there is a quibble - and for a work of this value, it's a small one - it is that Pfanz does not offer up an opinion on the controversies surrounding the first day.  He obviously has a great store of knowledge, and he understands the arguments that still run hot - whether Ewell could have or should have taken Cemetery Hill (or more likely Culp's Hill) at the end of the day, for example - but he doesn't offer up his judgement.  He does his best to prove or deny claims or events leading up to critical decisions - but does not go on to render his own decision.  He leaves it to the reader to judge - which is perhaps, after all, the best approach.  One real complaint - there are numerous obvious typos that the editors of the North Carolina press should have corrected (mostly in the unit annotations to the maps).  Difficult to understand that sort of lapse in what is a recognized academic work.	2001-08-22
US	52833768	R2YUC6DYXFGK6G	0312156499	946483413	Seeing Calvin Coolidge in a Dream: A Novel	Books	5	21	21	N	N	If only China had Calvin Coolidge in their history.	This one really has to be read on trust.  Such an absurd concept - former Red Guard escapes mainland China to Hong Kong, eventually reaches New York in the banking industry and becomes obsessed with Calvin Coolidge - can only be translated into wonderful reading by a genuine talent - which Mr. Derbyshire obviously is.  It's worth reading for the commentary on Chinese history.  It's worth reading for the commentary on Mr. Coolidge.  It's worth reading strictly for the penultimate scene - when the title scene is played out.  It's worth reading purely for the craft of the author's art.  It's just worth reading - proof that there are still precious gems out there amid the torrent of flotsam and jetsam that the main publishing houses turn out on a prolific and shameless basis.	2001-08-03
US	52833768	R3NIZAIBWPWKG8	0060169494	602194337	The Battle of Leyte Gulf 23-26 October 1944	Books	4	32	36	N	N	US Navy's culminating victory in the Pacific	As the author points out, the series of naval battles fought in late October, 1945, collectively termed the Battle of Leyte Gulf, was the largest naval battle ever fought - in terms of men and ships involved.  Although by that point in the war, the question was not if Japan was to be defeated but when and at what cost (the cost was high and would have been staggering if the atomic bomb attacks had not finally convinced Hirohito to accept the terms of the Potsdam ultimatum).  From before Pearl Harbor, the Japanese Combined Fleet had been seeking the &quot;decisive battle&quot; at sea, where they would once and for all achieve naval superiority over the Allies (the U.S., actually, since Britain's naval efforts were quickly rendered inconsequential in the Pacific days into the war).  At Leyte Gulf, the Japanese sallied forth - in their typically overly complex, arrogant, disconnected fashion - to destroy the American landing forces off Leyte - and turn back the flooding tide of the American advance.  What actually happened, in a complex series of maneuvers and actions - involving tactical and strategic mistakes on both sides - resulted in a resounding American victory and the final destruction of the Japanese Combined Fleet.  The Japanese would never again venture forth to meet American ships at sea - save the Yamato's desperate suicide run during the first week of the Battle of Okinawa.  Cutler's account is well researched and is commendable in explaining complex events and evaluating tactical and strategic decisions - even if his writing style is not quite up to the dramatic content.  Cutler rightly emphasizes the heroic actions of the Destroyers and Destroyer Escorts off Samar in attempting to fend off the vastly superior Japanese force under Kurita - which, through tactical and communications errors by &quot;Bull&quot; Halsey - had achieved position to destroy covering escort carrier task forces and the American landing fleet off Leyte (fortunately for the U.S., Kurita made the mistake of breaking off his attack on the verge of success).  The Battle of Leyte Gulf is little known among the American public and the action by these &quot;small Navy&quot; sailors of &quot;Taffy 3&quot; should be memorialzed as a profile of courage.  They exhibited the type of courage Japan - in their arrogance - was convinced the U. S. did not possess when they made their decision to precipitate a war with the &quot;sleeping giant&quot;.  What sweet revenge it must have been for USS West Virginia, survivor of the cowardly attack on Pearl Harbor, when her radar directed big guns rained destruction on the Japanese force under Kirishima at Surigao Strait.  This is the definitive account of a decisive engagement of the war in the Pacific.and perhaps last great naval battle the world will ever see.	2001-08-03
US	52833768	R25H53D0KRJ1VD	0375724834	352044771	Motherless Brooklyn	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Philip Marlowe's orphan brother with a tic - Barnumumbailey	In obvious homage to Raymond Chandler's form - even quoting directly from several of his books - Lethem has created a very creative, highly readable, unique take on the classic detective novel.   The first person narrative from the mind of a Tourette's is the real engine that drives this vehicle, but Lethem also does a pretty fair job of building up and playing out the detective story that frames the plot.   The book as a whole is written at a level that defies categorization and truly deserves the recognition that it has received as valued literature.	2001-08-03
US	52833768	R121H2NOHGVWDX	0395478049	447464372	Offshore	Books	5	3	4	N	N	In precarious existence	Describing the quietly desperate - if not demented - lives of people clinging to the shores of the Thames in London - struggling to extend their existence in some form of order - was perfect staging for Ms. Fitzgerald.  She reveled in the development of characters which did not fit, did not conform, never really understood their society or their surroundings.  These characters living Offshore have not so much banded together as they have fled to the same (unsafe) haven from the demands of society around them.  There is no plot - there are just the wonderfully developed characters and their idiosyncratic deeds and mis-deeds.  This odd assortment of dwellers on the edge of the river - and the outer fringes of life - are the base from which Ms. Fitzgerald compels the reader to reflect on their own precarious existence.  The final scene - literally heading Offshore - is priceless.  Certainly one of the great short novels of recent memory, recommended to all who read to admire the craft of a literary artist in the perfect element.	2001-07-05
US	52833768	RUTOPC6JKH1CF	0891415726	773852	Wahoo: The Patrols of America's Most Famous World War II Submarine	Books	5	21	21	N	N	How the Silent Service came to wage &quot;Unrestricted Warfare&quot;	Submariners accounted for less than 2% of the entire U. S. Navy in World War Two - but they accounted for 60% of Japanese merchant marine losses and 30% of Japanese navy losses.  After the war, Japanese officials conceded that the virtual strangulation of the Japanese home islands - largely by the U.S. submarine force - was the primary cause for the defeat of the Japanese military.  How this victory was won is told in microcosm by Dick O'Kane's fine book on USS WAHOO (SS238).  O'Kane served as Executive Officer on  WAHOO for every patrol but its last - and went onto to command his own boat, the legendary USS TANG (SS306) - which was also one of the most successful submarines of the war.  After the attack on Pearl Harbor, the only effective offensive weapon available in the Pacific was the submarine, and the U.S. immediately commenced unrestricted submarine warfare.  Unfortunately, the submarine force - like the rest of the Allied world - was not quite ready from the start to take on this new challenge.  Boats immediately deployed long distances to take the war to Japan, but the results were mixed.  Pre-war tactics - largely based upon remaining undetected as forward elements of battleship-based fleet movements - were of very limited value in independent, forward deployed operations against the Japanese.  WAHOO's first patrols reflected this defect - the CO was unwilling and untrained to engage in aggressive actions to find and pursue (for the most part in surface transit) and engage in risk taking to ensure the destruction of high value Japanese targets.  It was only with the insertion of younger officers - WAHOO's LCDR &quot;Mush&quot; Morton was among those that showed the way early on, revolutionizing the submarine force and its tactics - that significant victories were realized.  The courage of these crews - sailing alone thousands of miles from base to engage the enemy in their home waters - cannot be denied.  Their intelligence, innovation, hard work and persistence should also be credited.  The challenges that were overcome were intimidating - one of the greatest being the U. S. Navy's own Ordnance Bureau.  The gross deficiencies in the quality and effectiveness of the U.S. Navy's torpedoes in World War Two were criminal.  The WAHOO deployed in the Sea of Japan - on their penultimate patrol - and every warshot fired was a dud.  The Navy Bureau's response was to deflect blame on to the boats for poor shooting - an unconscionable act of cowardice, when the facts were that torpedoes had never been tested to accurately judge their performance in realistic scenarios.  Improvements were made, but the U. S. Navy Bureau of Ordnance never delivered an effective weapon to the U.S. Navy submarine force in World War Two.  O'Kane's &quot;WAHOO&quot; reads like a thrilling novel of fiction - but in fact documents the emergence of the dominant force in winning the war in the Pacific against Japan.  The price paid was high.  22% of submariners never returned from patrol - the highest rate of attrition of any arm of any service in the U.S. military in World War Two.  The WAHOO never returned from their seventh patrol - assumed sunk by aircraft after another successful series of raids in the Sea of Japan.   We are fortunate that these men were willing to sacrifice all and volunteer to take the war to the Japanese - and fortunate that Dick O'Kane has documented the valor of the submarine force forever in this fine volume.  O'Kane also wrote of USS TANG in his book &quot;Clear the Bridge!&quot;, another book well worth the read.	2001-07-05
US	52833768	R30FCC38306G26	0815410220	338855770	Defeat Into Victory: Battling Japan in Burma and India, 1942-1945	Books	5	12	16	N	N	Slim - Second to None	William Slim is virtually unknown today - even among the history buff circles, he is a rate footnote.  Yet, among those who have studied World War Two - and those few remaining who had direct experience beyond a limited theater view - Slim is regarded as one of the finest army commanders to have served on any front during the course of that war.  Slim was among the few that endured defeat in the war's beginning - the agonizing, protracted withdrawal of Burma Corps over a thousand miles of jungle, mountain, swamp and river terrain in Burma and India in 1942 - and survived and had the opportunity to lead revitalized forces to victory in the end (British 14th Army).  Revenge was sweet.  Slim's memoirs are a treasure - full of criticism and praise in fair measure - with intelligent and honest commentary throughout.  His assessments of the critical elements of a successful campaign are worthy of textbook study.   Not only did Slim's men have to fight a fanatical, relentless foe in the Japanese - he had to contend with debilitating tropical disease, lack of air and land transport, non-existent infratstructure, shortages of all types of food and supplies, as well as neglect from his own country and army.  Burma was in many ways the forgotten theater.  Controversial figures such as the American Stilwell and the British Wingate are men that Slim knew well in Burma - and he does not shrink from giving his candid assessment of these figures - strengths and weaknesses.  Above all, Slim's book is a testament to the courage, intelligence and fortitude of the fighting men - soldiers, airmen and sailors - of all nationalities (majority of the fighting on the Allied side in the Burma-India theater was by Indians).  His comments on the nationalist movements of the Burmese, Indians and Chinese are also of interest, in view of post-war events in these countries, including the expulsion of British rule.  Slim was a rare figure - an Army Commander bent on winning for all the right reasons - while always maintaining his touch with the front line solider.  He was eager to assign glory to those that deserved it - those that did the fighting as well as those that toiled anonymously behind the lines to keep the forward troops supported.  He was also rare in that he was ready and willing to admit mistakes were made, and how those mistakes were overcome.  With so many critical decisions to be made in such desperate circumstances with such limited information - it is a wonder that any informed directives could be issued at the command level in that environment.  His perspective on the Japanese is also worthy of further study.  Slim had a distinguished war record prior to World War Two - he had served in several operations in World War One, in the Middle East between wars - he was familiar with how soldiers fought and died all over the world.  His contempt for the Japanese - the atrocities they committed on a routine basis against not only captured, wounded soldiers but civilians held helpless in conquered territory, and the unconscionable treatment of prisoners by Japanese - was thoroughly justified by his experiences.  His willingness to continue to fight and kill Japanese and his refusal to treat defeated Japanese with anything other than contempt (he ignored MacArthur's accommodating gestures after the surrender) were measured responses - a reading of this book communicates that point very well.  Slim understood his assigned was role was not just to retake Japanese held territory, but to kill Japanese soldiers - destroy Japanese armies.  He was the man for the job.	2001-07-05
US	52833768	R3EL1D29B4VHYS	0393318885	27174518	The Wealth and Poverty of Nations: Why Some Are So Rich and Some So Poor	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Socioeconomic History of the World	Prof. Landes has proven himself astute, erudite, and in all ways learned of the social and economic history of the world at the macro scale.  He has also proven himself a target for the liberal left - he has dared to speak factually on politically incorrect subject material.  He has dared to talk about facts and figures, causes and effects, without stopping to protect/rationalize in favor of all non-European peoples from the obvious evils of all peoples European .  What a refreshing  insight - Europeans were not all alike (and evil) in the so-called &quot;Age of Discovery&quot; - Africans were not all alike, either, neither were Native Americans, or any other religious, ethnic or geographic group of peoples.  We don't have to apply Affirmative Action to history (and economics) to learn - in fact, we're better off evaluating the base facts without the political bias, if we are ever to roam close to the truth.  Prof. Landes is very persuasive in his arguments - for example:  why did China fall behind the West in all measures of personal welfare and productivity (after an early lead), and why does China still suffer?  The answer is not in geography or even in combinations of external factors - it lies within the root of the Chinese governmental and social system of repression and xenophobia, which persists to the present day.  Another excellent example of the insight and analysis that Landes provides is his examination of the effects of religion - there can be little doubt that the repression of women will continue to drag down the societies in which this religious-based bias pervades.  His comparison of  Spain (once dependent upon the flow of precious metal from the Americas, marginalized when the flow ceased due to the lack of national industry, handicapped by the continuing intolerance of the Catholic Church) to  Saudi Arabia should be a great warning to that country (which will no doubt go unheeded for the next hundred years - at which point the dependency on oil will suddenly uncover - a complete lack of national industry).  Provocative, insightful commentaries herein - a very welcome addition to the top shelf of first rate &quot;world histories&quot;.  Bring on the critics - Prof. Landes is more than up to the task.	2001-02-12
US	52833768	R23I0XJANJKR3Z	0743215052	769417678	The Constant Gardener: A Novel	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Colonial Hangover and Corporate Greed	Not LeCarre's best, but still a pretty fair read - thoughtful, well paced, intelligent.  The usual mixture of social commentary is a little too heavy perhaps - the evil pharmaceutical companies bleeding cash out of the miserable third world poor, mixed in with a bad British colonial hangover (the hollow British aristocracy hangers-on still hoping for a knighthood - damn the natives).  LeCarre can still tell a story with the best of them, but his literary skills are not as sharp here.  The ending is not right by his standards either.	2001-02-06
US	52833768	R2R4WSB5LW61VT	0395859972	852870338	The Blue Flower	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The German Romantic Artist's Life	A great short read - as rare and wonderful as the flora of the title.  Ms. Fitzgerald creates the family environment, society, education and general circumstances of a young man destined to become a great poet of the German era of the period of Goethe (the great man himself makes an appearance in the tale).  The eccentric, precocious, intensive perceptions of the sensitive young man coming of age, struggling between wisdom and understanding, love and faith.  Like any great work of art, it reflects life's mysteries - what is the basis of love and life?  The fact that we can never know heightens the sense of tragedy and pathos - the explanation for Fritz's quote in the end &quot;All things considered, I think I'd rather be dead&quot;.  An excellent, introspective work, great characterizations, dramatic in the mind's workings.	2001-02-06
US	52833768	R2KVPO8SVGMJBC	0140296131	200647078	A Star Called Henry (The Last Roundup, Vol. 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Hooligans for the Republic	Mr. Doyle has written some great ones - Booker Prize for Paddy Clarke Ha, Ha, Ha; Barrytown Triology before that - but this is his best.  He has retained that uniquely Irish humor, underwhelmed with the world's pretensions, and taken on the grand sweep of the Irish Republican movement from the turn of the century.  Born into the foul holes of the poorest of Dublin's poor, Henry is a rollicking hellian from birth.  Irrepressible, hardshelled, opportunistic, he learns and lives fast, with allegiance to none - the son of an assassin, he fills his father's shoes.  The prominent figures of early Republicanism and the 1916 Easter uprising  - Michael Collins among them - appear throughout, but it is really the story of Ireland's long suffering common poor, their pride and spirit and love of life, their survival instincts, that shines through.   I can't wait for the next installment on Henry - only 20 at the end of this tale, which is much longer than most old men's lives.	2001-02-06
US	52833768	R2J3MJIZ66S3DP	0553214861	53359311	Babbitt (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Trying to Get Ahead in Middle America	Sinclair Lewis is generally relegated to second-rate status by the academics - despite the fact that he was America's first Nobel Prize winner for Literature.  As Robertson Davies, among others, asserted, Lewis is vastly under-rated and under-read among American novelists.  He deserves far more attention - because of his literary gifts as well as his ability to mirror and illuminate the American character.  Sinclair Lewis understood very well the forces at work in America in the early to mid part of the 20th century - not all of it positive.  Perhaps Lewis' unpopularity in America is in part due to his caricatures of Americans in an unflattering light.  No one should consider Lewis in the pantheon of literary immortals - but surely he fits somewhere in the curriculum.  Lewis is highly readable, his satire is highly amusing, his prose is intelligent and his observations on the pitfalls and hypocrisy of pursuit of happiness in America are brilliant.  His portrayal of Babbitt as the Lost Soul, knowing that he is lost but without the willingness or moral courage to find meaning in his existence, is a moving commentary on middle class America &quot;getting ahead&quot; that continues to be contemporary to subsequent generations.	2000-10-20
US	52833768	R16TEE5OVV39EN	0679741925	174144380	The Reivers	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Faulkner's Road Trip	Faulkner's work generally suffers under the criticism that he is purposefully difficult and unapproachable.  This book should serve to counter that criticism.  A thoroughly entertaining, funny story about a road trip and a horse race - what could be better?  For everyone that attempted Absalom, Absalom and gave up on Faulkner altogether, give him another chance - and start here.  Faulkner's gifts, generally regarded as America's greatest literary artist, are evident here as well, in a less studied work.  A great read.	2000-10-20
US	52833768	RULM1VFVJI42J	0873386310	712189789	Taken at the Flood: Robert E. Lee and Confederate Strategy in the Maryland Campaign of 1862	Books	5	34	35	N	N	Harsh Light on Lee	Much praise has been heaped on Dr. Harsh for this defining work on the Maryland Campaign of 1862.  Awards have rolled in - perhaps the setup for the Pulitzer Prize for his planned upcoming works on the Union Side of the first two years of the American Civil War in the eastern theatre.   Certainly, Harsh's approach of - what did they know, when did they know it, what did they do with information? - represents a step forward in understanding this critical campaign.  Perhaps this method is taken a little too far, perhaps the author is too contrarian, eager to dispel existing notions and overturn previous judgements, but that's the fun of it - great academic arguments will result.  Harsh's academic method - he is currently Professor of History at George Mason University, a school that he originally lobbied to be called &quot;The University of Northern Virginia&quot; (non-ACW fanatics didn't get it) - is unquestioned.  A critical, thorough survey has been conducted of available original source material as well as established secondary sources.  All told, it is an amazing story.  This work is the result of decades of labor on this subject (Harsh is a native of Hagerstown, MD).  One of the great points to be made here is that Lee was human after all, he made some significant mis-judgements.  If you didn't know it from other exposures to Dr. Harsh you couldn't deduce from this work that Harsh consider Lee to be one of our countries finest soldiers.  Even the best have their bad days - or campaigns, in this case.  This is an absolutely first rate work on one of the most important (Harsh obviously believes the most important) campaigns of the ACW.  Unfortunately, because of its academic format and size, it will not reach wide audiences.  For those willing to make the effort, they will be richly rewarded.	2000-10-20
US	52833768	RVMDF23GC2O2V	0684833379	749525595	Lincoln's Men: How President Lincoln Became Father to an Army and a Nation	Books	3	3	14	N	N	More Lincoln Worship	A disappointing effort from Mr. Davis - who has published some fine work.  He has procured numerous quotes from soldier's letters to support his many pronouncements concerning Lincoln the god - this is another contribution to the ongoing idolatory surrounding our 16th President - but he fails to convince.  Lincoln certainly had a closer &quot;relationship&quot; with the Army of the Potomac than with any of other Federal Civil War armies (Lincoln never took the time to travel out west - as did his Confederate counterpart, Jefferson Davis) and he frequently meddled directly in the affairs of the Army of the Potomac (everything from remote direction of troop movements to resolving personal appeals to military justice) - but more than that cannot be said from this look.  Many of the quotes familiar to us from previous works are recycled here - with little effect.  I was looking forward to an insightful study - and came away with just &quot;more of the same&quot;.  One of Lincoln's favorite questions to his generals in telegrams to the front was &quot;How does it look now?&quot;  After reading Davis' work, it looks about the same.	2000-09-22
US	52833768	R37WGIGRHIAGK5	0873385802	971303924	Confederate Tide Rising: Robert E. Lee and the Making of Southern Strategy, 1861-1862	Books	5	16	17	N	N	In Consideration of Lee and Davis	I had the pleasure of taking Dr. Harsh's Civil War History course at George Mason University.  Much of his basis for lectures for that course was the same material used to write this book and its sequel - Taken at the Flood.  Dr. Harsh is nothing if not a thorough researcher - with the help of his industrious graduate students of course, serving their terms of indenture in the tombs of the National Archives and the Center of Military History and other suitable manuscript repositories.  He has truly wiped the slate clean and started from the point of &quot;What did they know and when did they know it?&quot;  He often refers to Lincoln's standard wire to his generals in the field &quot;How does it look now?&quot;  He applies that method to analyzing Civil War principals - how did the situation present itself, what information was known or guessed at and when  and how did they react to it?  You may not agree with all of his conclusions - I certainly do not agree with all of the high praise that he heaps on Jefferson Davis and George McClellan.  However, you will have to take his statements under serious consideration, since they are based on solid, academic application of the historical method.  He succeeds in stimulating the student to think.  He has a special interest in historiography and he makes every effort to avoid preconceptions which are not supported by available facts.  This book is certainly a key contribution to understanding the first year of the war from the Confederate strategic perspective.  His Taken at the Flood will rapidly become the standard for future studies of the Maryland Campaign of '62.  The goods news is that Dr. Harsh will next turn his attention to the Federal side and we will be offered his insight on Lincoln, McClellan et al.	2000-09-22
US	52833768	RXXMJQMY5N9T1	0385044518	260143252	A Stillness at Appomattox (Army of the Potomac, Vol. 3)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Mr. Catton's Army	Bruce Catton is largely responsible for the continuing Civil War publishing boom, with his publication in the early 1950's of his trilogy history of the Army of the Potomac. Catton's passion for the subject,  combined with his journalistic talents, captured the essence of a  fundamental of American mythology. As a boy in Wisconsin he idolized the  veterans he came to know in his community and he became committed if not  obsessed to learning about them and documenting what he learned. What he  learned is one of the great stories in our country's history - the story of  the common soldier in the American Civil War. It is not an attempt at  applying the academic method, it is journalism - and first rate  journalism., and great story telling. Yet, it is still historically  relevant and significant. Catton was able to put the various complex  subplots in the perspective of the maturation of the democratic nation and  its institutions (for example, Indiana Governor O. P. Morton's wartime  state dictatorship and the implications for states' rights in relationship  to the national government). The famous figures are included, and  humanized, but it is really the story of the rank and file. The common  soldier, who suffered unmercifully under incompetent leadership, wasteful  bureaucracies, political maneuvering, a multitude of physical hardships,  bad food and medicine and every other handicap imaginable (including death  and dismemberment in what was then a new and highly efficient killing field  of warfare) - and yet somehow emerged victorious. It is not a romantic  story, but it is a story full of praise for those who served their nation  in one of its great defining moments. There isn't any sympathy for the  opposing Confederates - neither is their any condemnation or hatred  (because the soldiers themselves did not condemn or hate). For the hard  core ACW armchair campaigner there is still much to be gleaned from a read  or re-read of Catton's trilogy. For the casual reader, this work is a great  starting place to understand the ACW - the conflict that, in Catton's view,  framed and defined the unique history of the United States. There are a few  misconceptions scattered about - but no matter, this is the stuff of  legends. There are conclusions drawn that are not thoroughly supported -  again, no matter.  Catton told a great story greatly, and it has stood the  test of time as a benchmark accomplishment.	2000-07-27
US	52833768	R2V0MXAVV5GEUP	080781749X	686578884	Gettysburg--The Second Day (Civil War America)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Best Guide to the &quot;Best Three Hours of Fighting�&quot;	I had studied Coddington and walked the battlefield many times for many hours, and I had convinced myself that I knew a little bit about the Second Day at Gettysburg - until I started in on Pfanz's work.  If you think that  you are acquainted with the events on July 2, 1863 at Gettysburg, and you  haven't read Pfanz (former historian at the Gettysburg National Military  Park and former Chief Historian of the National Park Service) - get ready  for an education.  True to the reviews, there does not appear to be  anything of significance - from our remote perspective in time - that can  be known about this three hours of fighting (on the south end of the  battlefield - Pfanz by design does not deal with the fighting at Culp's  Hill and Cemetery Hill on this day) that Pfanz has not exhausted in his  research.  What appears to be a tome at first contact is actually a  fast-paced story well told, with excellent maps (the usual complaint, there  should be more) and thoughtful analysis, based upon a depth of knowledge  and first rate research.  Probably not recommended for the casual reader,  but for the serious ACW &quot;buff&quot;, it doesn't get any better than  this.  What Longstreet described as the best three hours of fighting done  by any army, anywhere, is given its due by Pfanz.  If you have admired some  of Don Troiani's works from this battle (&quot;The Men must see us  Today&quot;, &quot;Saving the Flag&quot;, &quot;Barksdale's Charge&quot;,  &quot;Don't Give an Inch&quot;, &quot;Lions of the Roundtop&quot;, etc.)  and would like to know more of the historical behind the artistic - this is  your reference.  Detailed analysis of strategy is not Pfanz's aim (or  possibly his forte).  In the end, one wonders whether, in the fog of war,  there really was much more to it than &quot;the enemy is there and that is  where we will fight him&quot;.  Lee certainly understood very well (unlike  most of his Federal counterparts - hence his successes) that no grand  strategycould survive contact with the enemy.  It would be up to the  Corps, Division and Regimental commanders to make tactical decisions real  time once the Army's orders were issued and troops were put in motion.   Where Pfaniz excels is what happened once the soldiers were put in motion.	2000-07-27
US	52833768	R8PW8KFGO1VSR	0375701176	380487726	A Summons to Memphis	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Family: Forgive or Forget	If there was an American master of the short story in the 20th century, Peter Taylor has to be considered for that sobriquet.  His literary gifts and his insight into American society - heart and soul - are extraordinary.   This novella, which has more of the feel of a short story, is an example  of Taylor's focus on and absorption with the evolution of the American  family in the South in the 20th century.  The role of parents and children,  men and women, black and white, relationships within and among families and  society as a whole, are examined and enlightened.  Taylor's simple,  eloquent prose realizes profound underlying statements on complex  sociological subjects, no less than the study of human nature  This  particular work focuses on the role of the parent in the future happiness  of the child - the child never ceases to be a child in the eyes of the  parent and the parent never ceases to be a parent in the eyes of the child  - and how the recognition of the individual is necessary to treat a parent  or a child with love and respect and allow an opportunity for the  realization of happiness.  A true pleasure to enjoy Taylor's craft,  especially in this volume, which reaps the benefits of Taylor's accumulated  experience and highly refined talents.	2000-07-18
US	52833768	RNYA3NM9FW4BE	0385043104	260143252	Mr Lincoln's Army	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Mr. Catton's Army	Bruce Catton is largely responsible for the continuing Civil War publishing boom, with his publication in the early 1950's of his trilogy history of the Army of the Potomac.   Catton's passion for the subject,  combined with his journalistic talents, captured the essence of a  fundamental of American mythology. As a boy in Wisconsin he idolized the  veterans he came to know in his community and he became committed if not  obsessed to learning about them and documenting what he learned.  What he  learned is one of the great stories in our country's history - the story of  the common soldier in the American Civil War.   It is not an attempt at  applying the academic method, it is journalism - and first rate  journalism., and great story telling.  Yet, it is still historically  relevant and significant.  Catton was able to put the various complex  subplots in the perspective of the maturation of the democratic nation and  its institutions (for example, Indiana Governor O. P. Morton's wartime  state dictatorship and the implications for states' rights in relationship  to the national government).  The famous figures are included, and  humanized, but it is really the story of the rank and file.  The common  soldier, who suffered unmercifully under incompetent leadership, wasteful  bureaucracies, political maneuvering, a multitude of physical hardships,  bad food and medicine and every other handicap imaginable (including death  and dismemberment in what was then a new and highly efficient killing field  of warfare) - and yet somehow emerged victorious.  It is not a romantic  story, but it is a story full of praise for those who served their nation  in one of its great defining moments.  There isn't any sympathy for the  opposing Confederates - neither is their any condemnation or hatred  (because the soldiers themselves did not condemn or hate).   For the hard  core ACW armchair campaigner there is still much to be gleaned from a read  or re-read of Catton's trilogy.  For the casual reader, this work is a  great starting place to understand the ACW - the conflict that, in Catton's  view, framed and defined the unique history of the United States.  There  are a few misconceptions scattered about - but no matter, this is the stuff  of legends.  There are conclusions drawn that are not thoroughly supported  - again, no matter.  Catton told a great story greatly, and it has stood  the test of time as a benchmark accomplishment.	2000-07-18
US	52833768	R3NY6UR08Y9D8U	0375400524	841119426	The First World War	Books	5	25	27	N	N	The Great War - full of Sound and Fury	Mr. Keegan is our foremost historian on European military history, and he is at the peak of his powers in writing about The Great War.  As he  relates in introducing this impressive volume, his interest in this  catastrophic and utterly purposeless conflict started at a young age and  remained highly personal throughout his life to the present day.  The Great  War was a shattering trauma to the families in the towns and villages where  Keegan grew up.  Still, today it eclipses in many ways the memory of even  the Second World War (which Keegan convincingly argues cannot be understood  without a grasp of the Great War that preceded it).  To fit this story into  less than 500 pages requires a quick pace.   (Barbara Tuchman's account of  the war's beginnings Guns of August is vital to supplement what is  represented herein by Keegan).  However, Keegan never neglects the  necessary detail and personal aspects of events, never fails to impress the  reader.  The Western Front - the failure of the Schlieffen plan and the  great &quot;turnabout&quot; and counter-offensive of the Marne, Loos,  Verdun (again, for the necessary detailed understanding, see Alistair  Horne's Price of Glory:  Verdun - 1916) - is the focus, but the Eastern  Front is not neglected.  Keegan's description of the epic struggle between  German and Slav (pieced together from scant sources since these lost souls  - millions of lives thrown away in unremembered, epic struggles - left few  records of their experiences), with the spectre of the Russian Revolution  and the coming of the Stalinist state, leaves the reader with a shudder of  revulsion (anticipating that this war of hatred would continue and  accelerate to worse heights in the Second World War).  The Eastern Front  was, if anything, in many ways more horrifying than the trench warfare that  wasted away - with no purpose or benefit to anyone involved in any way - a  generation of manhood from France, Britain and Germany in the Western  Front.  All of Keegan's works are treasures for the interested reader.   This volume is perhaps Keegan's best.  It has a personal intensity that  enhances the impact on the reader, while still maintaining due balance of  storytelling and factual representation of academic research.	2000-02-25
US	52833768	RGHI25O740YYN	0807845698	280997998	Two Great Rebel Armies: An Essay in Confederate Military History (Civil War America)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Success and Failure in the Confederate Cause	Students of the American Civil War have long pondered the root causes of the illustrious successes of the Army of Northern Virginia in comparison to the miserable failures of the Army of Tennessee.  For some, the answer is  as simple as Robert E. Lee vs. Braxton Bragg (the comparison between the  two is so compelling as to almost stifle further analysis).  Fortunately,  Dr. McMurry has delved into the subject with academic discipline and  presented his results in this concise, convincing study - which, since its  publication, has become a standard reference for later ACW histories from  the academic community.  Superior leadership - from the commanding general  on down through the command structure, including experience, discipline and  motivation of the regimental and company officers and their soldiers - was  certainly a very large factor, but by no means the only important factor.   The infrastructure of war (railroads, supply lines, communications) in the  west was inferior for troop movements in a large area which was primarily  still wilderness.  Key areas in the west (Tennessee, Kentucky) were  indefensible due to the existence of penetrating rivers - exploited by  Federal naval gunboat superiority.  Federal efforts in the west were much  more organized, supplied and led (at least later in the war) than their  Confederate counterparts.  Dr. McMurry applies the academic method in  presenting the appropriate statistics to support his conclusions.  The  final analysis by McMurry is persuasive:  the South adopted a strategy of  trading land for time in the west (where the war could not be won, but was  eventually lost) for an opportunity to try and win the war in the east  (where relative advantages and the best opportunities existed).  This  strategy seems to have been the South's best chance for victory in a war  heavily weighted against them (in terms of military resources) from the  outset.  There is also a very interesting appendix which presents McMurry'sviews on the &quot;Lee bashing&quot; fad - initiated by Thomas Connelly, of  late supported by Alan Nolan in his ridiculous &quot;Lee Considered&quot;.   Again, the disciplined academic view is the most persuasive in these  arguments.	1999-12-29
US	52833768	R33TYXRFHZ7B3Q	0700606505	104610742	The Confederacy's Last Hurrah: Spring Hill, Franklin, and Nashville (Modern War Studies)	Books	4	39	44	N	N	� Hood of Texas played hell in Tennessee �	Of all the poor leadership decisions made by Jefferson Davis (there were many), probably his worst was the appointment of John Bell Hood to command the Army of Tennessee.  At the time, Joe Johnston had fought a three-month  delaying action against William Tecumseh Sherman's Federal army in the  west, precipitating a standoff at the outskirts to Atlanta.  While  preserving the fighting strength of his army, Johnston had committed the  cardinal sins (in Davis' eyes) of giving up much of the southern heartland  without pitched battle and never committing to an offensive-minded  strategy.  Davis was looking for another R. E. Lee to command the Army of  Tennessee and Joe Johnston was never going to measure up to that standard  (nor was anyone else).  Upon taking command of the Army of Tennessee, Hood  committed to a series of pointless, bloodily repulsed, uncoordinated  assaults which guaranteed Sherman's success, the loss of Atlanta, Lincoln's  re-election and the Confederacy's eventual demise.  Wiley Sword's excellent  account of the Tennessee campaign of November/December 1864 is the story of  the ultimate price paid (in their last significant campaign) by the weary,  long suffering but still - miraculously - willing and valiant soldiers of  the Army of Tennessee.  Hood's vainglorious attempt to recover lost fortune  by invading Tennessee (with the longer term goal of reaching the banks of  the Ohio - there to demand terms from the, by then, reeling Federals, as  this fantasy was supposed to have played out) was an exercise in human  folly never exceeded in the military history of the United States.  Sword's  description of the Battle of Franklin, senseless, barbaric, heroic human  slaughter that we can only pray we will never again experience the like of  on this continent or any other, is a masterful description of the  indescribable.  Sword takes the time to build the characters that were the  principal players - Thomas, Schofield, Hood among others - to put theirdeeds and words in the proper context.  Reactions to the final victory  before Nashville would be comic if not so tragic - on both sides.  The  Federals came close to cashiering one of their best generals on the eve of  the most decisive Federal victory of the war.  The Confederates completely  deceived themselves as to the incompetence of their leaders and the  hopeless condition of their western army - until the patient Thomas was  good and ready to deliver the coup de grace - which he proved fully capable  of skillfully administering.  This is a standard on the Civil War  bookshelf, a thorough and thoughtful survey of the final chapter of the  Army of Tennessee.	1999-11-03
US	52833768	RHF2BNYQNQX1A	070060748X	809880535	Decision in the West: The Atlanta Campaign of 1864 (Modern War Studies)	Books	5	10	14	N	N	1864 and the ACW in the West	Upon cracking the cover of this considerable work, one is immediately put off by the author's admission that he was inspired to this subject by the terribly sentimental and over-rated (some would say just plain terrible)  movie Gone With the Wind.  However, be assured, this is no work of  sentimentality or romantic notions about a Lost Cause.  This is a hard  look, based upon facts and primary research, at what turned about to be the  decisive campaign of the ACW (although, as Castel clearly demonstrates,  Sherman's intent at the start was something else entirely).  Castel takes  all of the pre-conceived notions about the armies and the primary  participants, wipes the slate clean and draws a new picture - which is most  enlightening and in many cases surprising.  Yes, Sherman turned out to be  the hero that delivered Atlanta in time to re-elect Lincoln (thereby  sealing the fate of the Confederacy), but no - he wasn't the efficient,  effective, in control leader previously thought - he was, as Castel  summarizes, the &quot;general who didn't like to fight&quot;, and , worse,  the general that continually assumed that the enemy was doing what he  wished them to do.  Against anyone other than Joe Johnston (or, even worse,  Braxton Bragg, his predecessor), the outcome might have been very different  (one can only imagine the result if Lee or Jackson had been facing Sherman  - can you whistle Dixie?).  Where this work stands out is in the involving,  present tense style - which serves to effect an immediacy to the story  telling, which is most successful (why hasn't this style been adopted more  often?).  And what a story it is that Castel tells so well.  From the  initial thrust at Rocky Face Ridge (and the first lost opportunity with the  Snake Creep Gap maneuver) to the down trodden, star-crossed Army of  Tennessee veterans tramping out of Atlanta on the McDonough Road (the last  missed opportunity for Sherman and his bummers to end the war in the West  more decisively), all of the suffering and misery and courage of the common  soldiers, the political atmosphere that hung over the tactical  decision-making and the generals themselves (the legends of Sherman and  Grant take some well deserved tarnishing, Thomas is redeemed, Johnston  confirmed in his place) all of these people, place and events shine  through, a poignant picture artfully painted.	1999-09-29
US	52833768	RNFL7PUZOPG60	0684830485	896923	For Whom the Bell Tolls (Scribner Classics)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Papa's Wishful Thinking	Hemingway relates his experiences as a journalist during the Spanish Civil War in the form of a novel that is his own inner wish of life as he wished he knew it.  The story is of an American scholar/warrior, working behind  enemy lines (it's hard from the present to understand that the Stanlists  were &quot;good&quot; and the fascists &quot;bad&quot;, both turned out to  be evil, rotten at the core in the end) with a Spanish guerilla band.  Many  noble, brave acts are performed - even falling in love, having sex is a  noble act, as Papa writes it into the plot - the hero dies valiantly, the  true heir of an American Civil War hero.  Why, in Hemingway's hands, this  is regarded as first-rate literature (the stuff of a Nobel laureate?),  while in the hands of someone such as a Graham Greene or John LeCarre, it  would be regarded as merely well done escapism, is beyond me.  There is the  usual nonsense on the false, macho bravado of bullfighting and other  Hemingway stereotypes appear at intervals.  There is certainly enough of  the Hemingway literary power to carry the reader through to the end, but in  the end I was left convinced that Papa should have stuck to short stories -  where he left his lasting mark.  As usual, Hemingway is a man trying too  hard to prove that he is a man - never becoming one.	1999-08-19
US	52833768	RKITA0HYF8F6E	025202236X	260635535	CIVIL WAR IN WEST SLIP CASES: From Stones River to Chattanooga	Books	5	18	19	N	N	After Shiloh and before Atlanta: How the ACW was Lost	This trilogy very competently fills in much needed analysis and detail on the critical ACW battles of Stones River, Chickamauga and Chattanooga.  Hard to believe, with the great volume of ACW material that has been  generated and is still being generated, but there were really no standard,  first rate treatments of these three great battles before Cozzens set to  work (and there is still no standard available on the battle of Shiloh).   The research, detail and accuracy are first rate (even more impressive  since Mr. Cozzens is a foreign service officer and at times worked from  sites as remote as Lima, Peru).  The first installment - No Better Place to  Die:  The Battle of Stones River - is a slow start, somewhat confused and  complacent (which is an odd impression, given that Stones River was  equivalent to a two-day Antietam of the West).  However, the next two  volumes - especially the middle centerpiece - This Terrible Sound:  The  Battle of Chickamauga - are stellar.  The right balance of commentary and  description in tactics, troop movements and first person narrative is  achieved to deliver great story telling and history.  The incredible,  depressing, star-crossed story of the Confederate Army of Tennessee is an  amazing testament to the indomitable nature of the human spirit.  Never  were better soldiers under worse leadership.  Where this work earns its  Main Selection of the History Book Club and ACW classic status is in the  unflinching, painfully honest portrayals of the individuals involved:   Braxton Bragg is revealed to be the egotistical incompetent that he was  (Bragg's only effective campaign was the offensive he launched against his  own officers after his only victory); Sherman and Grant very competent but  also capable of serious tactical errors; Rosecrans' collapse into despair;  Longstreet's self-serving intrigues; Thomas' plodding but heroic style; all  come to life in these pages.  Above all, the simple hopes and desires,  fears and dreams of the common soldier, moved to acts of cowardice and  bravery, stupidity and inspiration, despair and hope, are documented for  generations to ponder (this is where the primary research pays off -  resulting in well-placed first person narrative descriptions throughout).   Mr. Cozzens' has delivered a very valuable, enjoyable work deserving of  attention.  The art work by Keith Rocco is also a nice touch, effecting  without sentimentality, historical art which contributes to the whole.	1999-07-21
US	52833768	R15MPFBYC7O52C	0140188592	468027632	Gravity's Rainbow (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	1	8	23	N	N	Paranoid Tripe	Truly a mis-understood book, so much so that when published it was mistaken for a literary work and presented with the National Book Award.  In the case of this book appearances turn out to be all there is.  What  appears to be aimless ranting - is, in fact, aimless ranting.  Paranoid  diatribes are, in fact, nothing more than paranoid diatribes (with a  decidedly liberal slant - Earth to 60's liberals:  an industrial/financial  conglomerate did not precipitate World War II for the purposes of arms  sales and the U.S. government is not bent on mind control).  James Joyce  was a geniune literary talent - he was allowed to be pretentious and he  could get away with intentional obscurity.  Pynchon is not a talent, and he  is nothing if not pretentious (without merit) and intentionally obscure  (better to hide his lack of talent).  Comparisons to Joyce are insulting  and absurd. Bottom line:  A complete waste of time.	1999-06-16
US	52833768	RA5BHF1NRB595	0671510053	357229344	The Shipping News	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Man Becomes Man In Newfoundland	Quoyle - the name refers to a coil of rope formed to be stepped on - is a large lump of a loser, molded at a formative age by uncaring and abusive parents.  Utterly incapable and incompetent, yet somehow retaining hope and  a caring heart, Quoyle suffers at the hands of everyone he is associated  with - parents, siblings, whoring wife, even children - until he meets a  friend, a hip journalist named Partridge who takes the Quoyle under his  wing.  Partridge sets Quoyle's redemption in motion and then departs,  setting the stage for the true redeemer as the Aunt who (not so) strangely  avoids Quoyle's father's funeral, only to then lead Quoyle back to the  family homeland of Newfoundland.  The story is then one of Quoyle's growing  into his own manhood, of his family's final emergence from a sordid,  suffering, violent past and of the many and varied characters and peoples  that have populated the rocky hard life of Newfoundland.  Not so much the  story of a way of life passing as of the continuing sense of the passage of  generations of lives in a hard - yet somehow magnetic - place.  The  characters and the cynical, deadpan, hardscrabble sense of humor are what  make this story work.  An easy paced, thoughtful, lyrical, funny,  interesting read.  Weakened by an inconsistent ending, but rates high marks  nonetheless.	1999-06-16
US	52833768	R39DTMW10YA3KR	0385128312	654482900	Engine Summer	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Post-Apocalyptic Youth Quest	John Crowley is a great talent, but this is not his best effort.  Every SF/Fantasy writer is compelled to write a post-apocalypse novel, a simpler people living in the aftermath of a future world technology-driven disaster  precipitated by man upon himself - and this is Crowley's contribution.   Within this sub-genre, there are better efforts to recommend (Miller's  'Canticle for Liebowitz' immediately comes to mind).  It is an interesting  story crafted by a gifted storyteller but it is not a compelling novel in a  literary sense.  This book by Crowley reminds me of several of Philip  Dick's alternative history books, albeit more lyrical and sentimental and  less philosophical and/or psychological than Dick.  The comparison with  Dick is an interesting one.  Crowley the superior literary talent is almost  completely out of print.  Dick, appealing to the mainstream SF community  with several movie take-offs to sustain him ('Blade Runner', 'Screamers',  'Total Recall') is available en masse - almost all of his novels and  several collections of short stories are immediately available.  Dick was  not capable of anything along the lines of Crowley's masterwork 'Little,  Big', although Dick was a creative, intelligent talent that went  unappreciated for too long.  Hopefully, Crowley will earn his due  recognition in his lifetime.	1999-06-16
US	52833768	R1NPO8JZ4YHTEU	0140275002	249467690	Angel in the Whirlwind: The Triumph of the American Revolution	Books	4	9	11	N	N	From the Arrogance of Brittania was Born a Great Nation	It is difficult to appreciate, from our contemporary perspective, the severity of the hardships and the challenge that the Founding Fathers (and more importantly, the patriot citizens) faced in 1775.  To motivate a  dispersed, diverse, uncooperative (at times) colonial population which was  coming into prosperity after facing the horrors of frontier life and the  French and Indian war, to risk all - life, liberty, property - in pursuit  of freedom.  Our grade school teaching glosses over the names and places  but leaves no impression of how close a thing our American Revolution  really was.  If we were fortunate, we had a more scholarly, detailed  treatment sometime before we matriculated from college - in most cases, not  even then.  Bobrick, in his 'Angel...' makes a noble attempt to treat the  subject with the depth and passion that it deserves.  Written along the  lines of Foote's 'Civil War Narrative', while falling short of the mark of  that great literary epic, Bobrick still earns high marks for his own  narrative style and historical technique.  The true test is the depth of  the characters, are they real people or just block stereotypes or the myths  that have persisted over time?  In Bobrick's case, they are all real,  poignantly so.  Washington the great leader, but also the shy, declining  personality.  Jefferson the great author behind the Declaration of  Independence, but also in many ways a sideline player compared to his later  adversary John Adams.  Benedict Arnold, traitor in the end, but an  effective patrior warrior in the beginning.  Cornwallis, Howe, Burgoyne and  Clinton, arrogance and ego, brought to defeat by not just Washington but  also Greene, Morgan and that 'boy', Lafayette.  Bobrick's work is not a  military history per se - the battles (Bennington, Trenton, Long Island,  King's Mountain, Cowpens, etc. leading to Yorktown) are adequately  described only in the context of the overall narrative - but given the  limits of what can be toldwithin a single volume, Bobrick did very well.   And this rebellion was a very close thing - the persistent loyalist  sentiment, the inability to clothe, feed and pay the Continental Army, the  unstable nature of the French alliance, the refusal of the various colonies  to work in a united fashion - all worked against the successful rebellion.    Yet the Angel was there, the hand of Providence.  Also there were the  seeds of the nation's future:  westward expansion, terrible Civil War,  imperial strength as the arsenal of democracy.  Do yourself a favor and  redress your ignorance over your country's birth - pick up Bobrick's 'Angel  .....' and appreciate your ancestors' brave story of honor, sacrifice and  commitment to freedom for future generations to come.	1999-02-08
US	52833768	R1PDPIT8TCE753	0679600116	705442339	Ulysses (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Incredibly Inaccessible	It was Joyce's stated intention to keep the academics busy for years chasing down the innumerable and vague references buried in virtually every line of his over-long master work, and he succeeded.  Why Joyce would set  out to purposefully confuse and mislead critics and readers can only be  explained by his overbearing, self-absorbed, pretentious nature.  A  thorough study of  Homer's Odyssey and Joyce's Portrait of the Artist - two  foundations upon which Ulysses was constructed - will assist the reader in  navigating Joyce's murky waters - but not nearly enough to make the effort  enjoyable and worthwhile.  Stuart Gilbert's famous study will bring the  reader further into Joyce's stream of consciousness - but Gilbert chooses  to be pretentious and occasionally obscure as well (no surprise since  Gilbert and Joyce were collaborators).  Joyce was a first rate literary  artist - no mistake.  Ulysses stands as a milestone in the art form - in  many respects the first true &quot;modern&quot; novel (for better or  worse).  However, for the clerisy of readers, Dubliners and Portrait of the  Artist are the limits for appreciating Joyce.  Ulysses steps over the line,  leading to Finnegan's Wake, which is completely out-of-bounds.  Those who  do make the effort necessary to understand Joyce's work in Ulysses will  come to realize that, rather than celebrate and memorialize the Dublin he  knew - as Homer did for the Hellenic world in The Odyssey (creating a  lasting vision of the Greek world as the Greeks saw it) - Joyce lays his  world in waste and ruin, leaving the landscape in desolation.  Joyce's  bottom line message can only be interpreted one of two ways:  first, that  the Heroic Age is so far removed (keeping in mind that Joyce considered the  Irish to be Greek descendants) as to be unrelated (if not in opposition) to  modern events; or second, that man is incapable of heroism in any form.  An  interesting interpretation of Joyce's Ulysses is its relationship to thescience of chaos, in its complex formation.  However, chaos (or more  strictly speaking, non-linear dynamic systems) that exists in reality  produces incredible complexity from surprisingly simple, non-linear  feedback systems.  Joyce constructed his work by merging too many source  motifs with the intention of creating complexity.  In the end, it is the  overwhelming negativism that wins out in Joyce's Ulysses, without  redemption.  Ulysses is one of the great over-praised works.  Over-praised  because it is inherently flawed, as most great experiments are bound to be.	1999-02-04
