US	52832550	RJUBXNBNA7TI6	0375707425	580961678	Embers	Books	3	11	17	N	N	3 1/2 stars. A taut tale of friendship, love and obsession	Marai, a prominent novelist in 1930's/40's Hungary was all but forgotten until the recent rediscovery of this novel. In it, he tells the sombre story of two childhood friends, the aristocratic General and his constant companion Konrad, who grew up together &quot;as twins&quot; until Konrad up and left one day without explanation. The General has been waiting for his friend's eventual return and finally, 41 years later, Konrad does return and comes to the castle for dinner. The general, who has spent the last 41 years secluded in one room of his castle, obsessing about their sudden falling out and assessing the reasons for Konrad's disappearance, spends the day of the visit painstakenly recreating their last evening together so that everything in the house is exactly as it was 41 years before. During the course of the evening, The General delivers an unemotional detailed summary of their years of together, essentially putting Konrad on trial for the betrayal of their friendship. There is very little action here, the majority of the book is a discourse between these two old friends, mostly delivered by The General. That, actually, is the one weakness I found with this book, that Marai has the General deliver what mostly amounts to a monologue instead of involving the reader in a conversation between the two main characters. I wanted to hear more from Konrad, I was interested in the voice of this character and we don't get to hear it much. The book would have presented a much more volatile experience for the reader that way, IMO. Still, there's great atmosphere and skill in the telling of this story of friendship, love and obsession.	2003-01-31
US	52832550	REUUR6FNF30KK	0375758518	529762488	Tepper Isn't Going Out: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Parking a car in NYC has never been so entertaining	Tepper, a native New Yorker in his 60's, has taken to parking his car in the evenings and on weekends in desirable spots around the city, putting his money in the meter and spending his time sitting in his car reading the paper. Cars stop by asking him if he's going out, he tells them that's he's not, usually by flicking his wrist in that &quot;move on&quot; sort of way. As far as he's concerned, he's parked perfectly legally and as long as there's money in the meter he has every right to occupy the parking spot. It is a curious habit he has developed and his family and friends are a little concerned. He knows all of the city's parking rules by heart. Mention any street or avenue and he can tell you what hours of which days you can park there and what hours you can't. This is a result of living in the city where alternate side of the street parking (so the streets can be cleaned) dominated large parts of his evenings as he searched for a parking spot where he could leave his car parked legally longer than just overnight. Now Tepper has a car garage and he is, apparently, having a little trouble adjusting <br />Anyone who lives or has lived in NY (or probably any city) and knows the horrors of parking there will definitely be able to appreciate the humor of Tepper's circumstances, and this is indeed a fairly entertaining book. Much of the action (if you can call it action) takes place in Tepper's car. But the humor here is very dry and understated and unless you can appreciate that you just might get a little bored reading about Tepper's parking conquests and dilemmas. Eventually, Tepper becomes a sort of local hero and celebrity, as people begin waiting for him in front of parking spots he is known to frequent. They stand in line, taking turns sitting in the passenger's seat of his car seeking advice about their lives. Tepper is a man of simple logic - in fact, listening to Tepper talk about parking is very reminiscent of Chauncy Gardner and his &quot;metaphors&quot; for gardening which enlighten everyone around him in Kosinsky's &quot;Being There.&quot; And lest you think Tepper is some NYC loon, he's not. He has a family and plenty of good friends and he owns Worlwide Lists, a business that specializes in selling lists of prospects for direct-mail ordering. Ultimately, Tepper finds himself in some legal trouble as the mayor (a stand-in for Guiliani for sure) tries to stop him from parking for sport. This of course causes him greater celebrity and now he has lawyers who want to represent him, agents who want him to write a book about his life, etc. <br />Calvin Trillin is a longtime columnist for The New Yorker and, humorously enough, actually served as editor for an issue of &quot;Beautiful Spot: A Magazine of Parking.&quot; This book is light and fun and entertaining and not a bad way to spend a couple of days.	2003-01-31
US	52832550	R3BN7HMR2NIMT8	0385499728	88958685	All Is Vanity: A Novel	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Vanity in all its ugliness comically exposed	Margaret, an English teacher in a New York private school, makes the brash decision to leave her position and spend the next year writing a novel. In her infinite wisdom, she believes this will be an easy task despite never having published as much as a short story before. She has illusions of grandeur, that her best-selling novel will show the world how brilliant she truly is and turn her into the talk of the town. After spending several months having a great amount of difficulty &quot;getting started&quot; - she has no direction for her book and she procrastinates her time by doing a million other absolutely necessary things such as painting the room her computer is in a soothing color more condusive to writing - she realizes that she is in big trouble, especially since she's been lying to her husband and everyone else around her that the novel is going great and is halfway finished. <br />Meanwhile, in L.A., her best friend Letty, the two of them inseparable since grade school, is having troubles of her own. Her husband has recently secured a position with the famous Otis museum, and Letty, who has been raising a family of four on a modest budget in a modest home,] is trying to transform herself into fitting her new &quot;affluent&quot; social position. She buys a house in the right part of town, near Beverly Hills, and then gets caught up with redesigning and redecorating the house in a way that keeps up with the Joneses, even though she finds the whole idea of that ridiculous on many levels. The two friends correspond via email and as Letty describes the daily &quot;hardships&quot; of purchasing the right club chairs and hiring the right gardener, Margaret finds inspiration in Letty's life. She begins writing a novel that mimics her best friend's new reality, urging Letty into financial burdens and social situations for which she is not suited or which she cannot afford just so that her novel has the necessary heightened tension and drama.<br />The book mostlyalternates between Margaret's narrative and Letty's email letters, and Schwarz gives us an entertaining (and on some level, horrifying) glimpse into the pretensions of the upper middle class, the folly of ambition, and the precarious bonds of friendship. Darkly comic and often clever, this novel is written briskly and lively enough to be effective for the story it's telling. If you're looking for a deep meaningful book, look elsewhere. Or, if you're one who has to like the<BR>characters in order to enjoy a book, this might not be a good choice either. Because, certainly, it is difficult to like either of these women, but as a pair they serve up plenty of light entertainment.	2003-01-31
US	52832550	RTHYGXYTZYXH7	0060958022	582577419	Five Quarters of the Orange	Books	3	11	13	N	N	3 1/2 stars. A history of complicated family dynamics	After 50-some years, Framboise Dartigen, now in her 60's, disguises her real identity and returns to her home village in the south of France to rebuild the burntdown family farmhouse in order to live out the rest of her life there. A sour women despite her sweet name (Framboise means raspberry in French) Framboise has a secret that stems back to her childhood during WWII, living in German-occupied France with her brother, sister and mother. She and her siblings forged a friendship with a German soldier, Tomas, with whom they would trade villagers' secrets for goodies such as chocolates and comic books. A series of events ultimately lead to tragedy and in telling the story Framboise slowly reveals the follies and uncertainties the war brought to their daily lives. Framboise's mother, an emotionally stern woman who kept a diary filled with often undecipherable notes, words, recipes, and secrets and who willed this diary to Framboise upon her death, was frequently taken with debilitating migraines and often spent days at a time in bed. Just prior to the migraine coming on, her mother would think she smelled oranges in the house. The title refers to the way Framboise, at the age of six, would instigate her mother's migraines by hiding orange slices in the house which would send her mother into a debilitated state and would enable Framboise and her siblings to spend the day/night out with Tomas. <br />The history of this family's dynamics, especially the relationship between Framboise and her mother, is a complicated story well told. Harris uses the sensualities of food - mostly the sweetness of the fruits that the Dartigens grew on their farm - to juxtapose the emotional hardships and hostilities of love and of war and the disenchantedness and consequences that result from this environment. I would have liked to have seen Harris spend a little more time on Framboise's relationship to her own daughters in the present which is touched upon but never really explored. Thereis also a subplot concerning Framboise's brother and nephew (also in present day), which Harris uses as a catalyst for Framboise to tell her story but which was unnecesarily overwritten and which, for me, distracted from the richer narrative at hand. Overall, a fine book, not an uplifting one but one which does have warmth in unexpected places.	2003-01-31
US	52832550	R3N7CJGAM2A259	0312951426	621198908	The Ice House: A Novel	Books	4	16	16	N	N	A gem of a murder mystery	This is a gem of a novel, a well-crafted story of mystery filled with wonderful characters. Three women: Phoebe, Anne and Diane - a coven of lesbians, according to gossip- live in a manor house, secluded. Three murders: Phoebe's parents who died in a car crash many years ago; Phoebe's husband who disappeared 10 years ago, and whose body was never found; and a newly discovered body in the ice house on Phoebe's property. But were all of these, or any of these actually murders? And who is the man in the Ice House and how did he get there? This is a page-turner that has as much to do with discovering the complexities of the three women as who if anyone has been murdered and by whom. Add to that a couple of overzealous detectives - one chief inspector who is convinced of Phoebe's guilt and one detective sergeant who is driven by both the charms and the mysteries of the women, especially Anne. One of the best I've read this year.	2002-12-05
US	52832550	R22CGM3ODDOVG0	0786866039	643495278	The Grand Complication: A Novel	Books	3	0	1	N	N	3 1/2 stars. Intellectual story, eccentric characters	A suspense novel, this book is full of eccentrics and literary/historical curiosities. Alexander Short is a quirky reference librarian; Henry Jesson is an extremely eccentric, extremely wealthy bibliophile who lures, then hires, Short to help solve a mystery. Jesson is the owner of a mysterious cabinet of drawers, each drawer of which is filled with items from the life of an eighteenth century inventor. One of the drawers is empty. Jesson commissions Short to find out what that drawer once held and recover it to complete the cabinet. <br />An intellectual mystery, Kurzweil fills this book with bizarre lifestyles, obscure linguistics, arcane bibliophilia and a bunch of other peculiarities. You gotta like that kind of stuff to enjoy this one, but if you do, it's a fine read.	2002-12-05
US	52832550	REBFPJC0EYZCG	0618173870	420660459	Everything Is Illuminated: A Novel	Books	3	6	8	N	N	3 1/2 stars. A mostly successful, idiosyncratic first novel	Foer is an extremely talented young writer and this book, in many ways, borders on brilliance, especially given Foer's age (I think he's 23 or 24 which means he probably wrote most of it somewhere between 21-23 years old.) And yet, it's definitely not a book for everyone as it's very idiosyncratic. <br />This is a story of family roots and folklore and family secrets. A character named Jonathan Safran Foer is searching for the woman who saved his grandfather from the Nazis. He goes to the Ukraine where Alex Petrov and his grandfather play translator and driver, respectively, to Foer's search. The novel is told in three alternating formats - a novel Jonathan (the character) is writing recounting his family history that he is sending to Alex in chapters to read and review, a novel Alex is writing recounting Jonathan's trip in the Ukraine and their search for the Ukrainian woman who saved Jonathan's grandfather that he is sending to Jonathan to read and review, and letters that Alex writes to Jonathan that accompany the finished chapters of Alex's book. The most entertaining part of this novel is Alex's telling of the story, as his English is not particularly good and he relies on a thesauras in order to explain himself which results in habitual misuse of everything from simple verbs to well-known idioms. That makes for some very entertaining reading. On the other hand, Jonathan's (the character) family history story is filled with often absurd magical realism and takes some getting used to. <br />I rather enjoyed the entire experience even if much of the novel's (and the author's) idiosyncrasies became tiring after awhile.	2002-12-05
US	52832550	RTFDCLJMYO675	0375502238	955709915	Blessings	Books	3	5	6	N	N	3 1/2 stars. An uneven story that, mostly, redeems itself	It took me a good five or six chapters to warm up to this book. There is alot of effort spent on a shaky set-up for the story that is about to unfold. But, as it turns out, the character of Lydia Blessings saves this novel; she reminded me quite a alot of Margaret Laurence's Hagar (The Stone Angel) and of Margaret Atwood's Iris (The Blind Assasin). The more I got to know her, the more about her I wanted to know. <br />Blessings is the name of the estate of Lydia Blessings, an ex-New York socialite who, in her early twenties, became pregnant by a married man and was sent by her mother to live at the family's country estate so as to not embarrass the family. It was supposed to be a temporary arrangement, but Lydia never left the place, and is now in her 80's. The book opens as a young teenage couple, in the dark of night, leave their newborn baby in a box on the stoop outside the back of the estate (if you think that's a bit of an obvious parallel, just wait, it gets better). Skip, the estate's new caretaker, lives in the apartment above the garage and finds the child in the morning. Skip is an ex-convict - actually, an unwilling participant in a robbery years ago where his friends let him take the fall - trying to scrape out a living, and when he finds the baby he (unbelievably) becomes paternal, decides to keep her, and names her Faith (this kind of stuff - at the Blessings estate, a baby, who will obviously turn out to be a  blessing for this place and the people in it, is named Faith - just turns me off. But eventually, I got over it.) Skip tries to keep the baby a secret (another obvious parallel), but before long Lydia discovers her. She lets Skip keep Faith, and in fact, becomes enamored with the child herself. <br />The story of Skip and Faith becomes much more complicated, and even more ludicrous, as the novel continues, but that's not where the interest in this book lies. This out-and-out obvious set-up is the vehicle Quindlen uses to tell Lydia's story - arigid, isolated old woman, basically exiled on this estate, who is set in her ways, has plenty of regrets, and is closed off to showing love and affection, even for her own daughter. Faith begins to bring new life to this household and begins to really affect Lydia, causing her to reflect on her life. As she relives the many layers of that life, and reveals the many secrets it holds, I started not being able to put the book down. You sense that Quindlen is leading you (and Lydia) somewhere important, some revelation that will affect and change everything. It's Lydia's story that Quindlen unfolds with exceptional skill, and it makes all the &quot;blessings&quot; and &quot;faith&quot; nonsense worth putting up with. It becomes easier and easier to forgive Quindlen some of the many surface problems of the story. <br />Overall, I ended up enjoying the book quite a bit; it's an uneven story, but the parts Quindlen does well makes the book worth reading.	2002-10-16
US	52832550	R3IP94J6HPLKG4	1558852832	36953103	The Holy Spirit of My Uncle's Cojones: A Novel	Books	3	4	4	N	N	3 1/2 stars. An enjoyable, coming of age novel	If you don't know what \\"cojones\\" means, find a spanish/english dictionary and look it up! The playful title is a good indicator of this novel's tone and it doesn't disappoint. A coming of age novel that isn't burdened with sentimentality, The Holy Spirit of My Uncle's Cojones is a breezy, entertaining read about 16 year old Tony, depressed and in love, who, after a half-hearted suicide attempt, is sent to San Francisco to spend the summer with his pot-smoking, drug dealing, womanizing uncle Jack. The year is 1978. The two of them are soon embroiled in a drug deal gone bad and are on the run for their lives. Uncle Jack isn't exactly a good role model for the impressionable teen but he proves to be exactly the antidote to adolescence that Tony needs. Tony runs the gamut of first experiences that summer, from drugs to sex, but most importantly, under his uncle's influence, he bonds with his Latino culture (he is half Anglo, half Latino) and finds his inner strength.<br />When the book opens, Tony is a thirty-something adult, an adjunct professor of English who wrote his first novel while in his twenties and is struggling to find his second. He is in a rut, unhappy with both his life as a teacher and his two-timing girlfriend. When he gets a phone call from his mother informing him that Uncle Jack has died, he travels back to San Francisco to attend the funeral and there, reminisces the story of that fateful summer. Reliving those memories is exactly the catalyst the adult Tony needs to once again find that spark in his life, proving that Uncle Jack, even in death, is a force to be reckoned with.	2002-07-31
US	52832550	R1TVWVT6FORQJX	0156006219	488195014	The Magician's Assistant	Books	4	37	38	N	N	A deceivingly simple story works its magic	The first thing you notice when reading The Magician's Assistant is that Ann Patchett really cares for her characters. She quietly nurtures them, even the minor ones, and offers the reader a gentle yet revealing view of their complex lives. <br />At the opening of the novel, Parsifal the magician, has suddenly died and Sabine, his assistant of twenty years and recently his wife, is trying to cope with her loss. Their relationship had always been a unique one - Sabine loved him and dedicated her life to him despite his inability to love her in the same way: he was gay. What complicates her grief is the discovery that Parsifal has family living in Nebraska - a mother and two sisters - family he had always told her died many years earlier in an accident. In fact, everything she knows about the history of his life, turns out to be a fabricated story. As Sabine struggles to comprehend the reasons for Parisfal's deceptions, she embarks on an emotional journey, traveling to Nebraska to try and connect with the Parsifal she never knew through the family she never knew he had. <br />Patchett effectively uses two elements throughout the book that bind this story together: the dream world and the world of magic. Descriptions of Sabine's dreams, where she reunites with Parsifal as well as his gay lover Phan, are used to relate Sabine's emotional awakenings as she forms relationships with Parsifal's family and learns of his early life; the magic that Parsifal and Sabine performed throughout their union serves as the tool that brings Parsifal's family an understanding of the son/brother they lost years ago.<br />Lovingly written and gracefully rendered, The Magician's Assistant is a deceivingly simple book and a very rewarding experience.	2002-04-28
US	52832550	R1FOIF7VXERF2U	0142000604	559108275	The Muse Asylum	Books	3	3	3	N	N	3 1/2 stars. Czuchlewski has a very promising career ahead	Jake is a journalist for a weekly alternative paper in NYC. He sets out to get the story of a lifetime - to find and interview Horace Jacob Little, a reclusive author whose identity is such a well kept secret that even his agent doesn't know who he is.  In another storyline, Andrew Wallace is a schizophrenic who believes that Horace Little is out to get him.  Andrew and Jake are connected through Lara, the girl they both loved when they were at Princeton (which is where Czuchlewski wrote the guts of this book, while studying with Joyce Carol Oates.) What transpires in the novel are separate but intricately related searches by Jake and Andrew to uncover who Horace Little is, searches which become personal journeys for each of them.<br />Czuchlewski tells his story from two seemingly opposite vantage points: a schizophrenic's desire to prove his convictions and a journalist's conviction to get his story. The anticipated result for each is the illusion of grandeur, the imagined prize for each is the girl they both love. What makes it all the more interesting is that the focus of each of their obsessions is an author who is as much an illusion as anything else in their respective quests.<br />A very complex premise for a novel for such a young and inexperienced author. Czuchlewski pulls it off quite well, even if the language and some of the scenes often give away his age. I consider this book on par with what Mysteries of Pittsburgh was for Chabon.	2002-04-28
US	52832550	R1PZY6PN8VJOZ0	1582431256	241619830	The Lost Glass Plates of Wilfred Eng	Books	3	3	4	N	N	3 1/2 stars.  An enjoyable book and a fine debut.	Robert Armour, a photo dealer and historian, is called by Judith Lund, a rich and fledgling artist, to appraise a group of glass plates (photo negatives.) He suspects they are self-portraits of famous nineteenth century photographer Wilfred Eng. When he later discovers more glass plates in Judith's basement which he believes are nudes of Eng's mistress Ellen, he sets out to dupe Judith into believing they're worthless and introduce them to the world himself. <br />He teams up with Parker, a former associate, and together they put a plan in motion which ends up with more complications than Armour bargained for. In the meanwhile, the more he involves himself in the research of Eng's life and the stealing of the plates, the more distant Armour becomes in his personal relationships with girlfriend Diane and her son Budge, a relationship further complicated by Diane's growing affection for her ex-husband's attentions. <br />Most of this is fairly engaging, despite the fact that Orton often takes us into territory which doesn't really further the novel.  Where Orton really shines is in his creation of Wilfred Eng's personal and professional history. This is where the story is most involving, as we learn about Eng's contributions to the art world, his personal shortcomings, and his love affair with Ellen.  Much of this is revealed in Ellen's own voice via a journal she kept during the affair, which Armour is reading. It's a complicated, believable, involving biography that meanders through the novel. It is also set up in such a way that loosely parallels Armour's own personality and ultimately, self-discovery. <br />Despite a few typical first-novel pitfalls, this is a fine debut.	2002-03-19
US	52832550	R255NFDGSG3F3O	0887392288	883791117	Banjo Grease	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Satisfying Glimpse of Blue Collar Americana	In his debut collection of short stories, \\"Banjo Grease,\\" Dennis Must chronicles the daily grind, the familial relationships, and the dysfunction of life in a small blue-collar town.  His characters are uneducated and often crass, his narrators are refreshingly straightfoward and honest, and the whole bunch of them are often humorous in a down-home sort of way.  You just can't help but like them - most of them anyway.  <br />The collection is loosely held together by the character of Westley Daugherty, a young man growing up in the town of Hebron, Pennsylvania, whose voice becomes the reader's comfort zone as we meet him again and again throughout the book.  We follow him through ten of the sixteen stories, as he chronicles the experiences of his life, always focusing on various members of his family.  Must's greatest strength lies in his talent for description and he uses it to define his characters and their surroundings in a way that gives us the truth of their lives before they utter a single word.  In the title story, \\"Banjo Grease\\", young Westley tells us about his Aunt Min:<br />\\"Like the lid of a can, the trailer door slowly opened.  A sweet and stale odor rose out of its aperture.  Min suddenly appeared, her henna shoe-polished hair curled in scraps of toilet paper with metal rollers the size of silverdollar wrappers.  Her rouged cheeks, splotched and smeared, sinking in towards her mouth - upper and lower dentures back in a jar at bedside, soaking.\\"<br />With his sensitivity to detail, an inherent understanding of his characters, and a conversational style that is infused with the basic motions of every day existence, Must makes us intimate with this working-class society which he obviously has a great affection for.  Here, we are introduced to Buddy Hart and his Uncle in \\"Say Hello to Stanley,\\" arguably the best short story in the collection:<br />\\"Buddy Hart hauled the Hammond B-3 in a two-wheel trailer hitched to his father's Willys sedan.  The family thought Uncle Stanley's talent as a barrel-house pianist had by some mysterious route passed down to Bud.  And the miracle became even more fortuitous when Stanley lost two of his fingers in the cutting mill along with his gig.\\" <br />Most of the stories are not feel-good pieces.  These folks live difficult, confused lives.  There are dreams unfulfilled, marriages in trouble, death to deal with, family members to be ashamed of.  It's the stuff that life is made of, and yet, Must's characters are as unique as they are universal. That's part of what makes them so successful. <br />\\"Banjo Grease\\" is a hearty and satisfying glimpse into the heart of americana.  Individually, these short stories are good; as a collection, they emerge as a fine artistic achievement.	2002-03-06
US	52832550	RKZVK9VZP8ZKI	0375706410	663303744	Waiting: A Novel	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Quiet, effective prose	The title is deceptive. By definition, it insinuates that nothing of significance will happen until whatever is waited for finally occurs, and it further insinuates that this will be the experience of its characters as well as its readers. However, Ha Jin takes on the formidable task of telling a story about what happens _during_ the act of waiting; that time period that one usually brushes off as lost to fidgetiness and anticipation. He shows us that, inevitably, if you're made to wait for someone or something too long, the satisfaction of the payoff ultimately decreases. Something about you changes: your disposition, your insight, your emotions, your desire for what you're waiting for. There is an enormous amount of intimate action that takes place in this story, even as it appears as if nothing of much relevance is happening. <br />Every summer Lin Kong, a doctor in the Chinese army, returns to his village to ask his wife for a divorce. Their marriage was arranged and it is a loveless union. Manna Wu, a nurse in the army and his mistress (the term is used loosely as they have no sexual contact whatsoever, purity being essential for an unmarried woman within their culture) waits for the day the divorce is granted and the two of them can become engaged. Each year, however, his wife promises the divorce but does not see it through, and he and Manna must wait another year before he can go back and try again. For eighteen years, summer after summer, they bide their time and endure this waiting. The emotional changes that occur, subtle as they are, during the course of every year that passes is \\"what happens\\" in this story. Jin unfolds their story lovingly, quietly, and deftly, with such rich detail that we understand alot of what is happening between them even as they don't. It's a tender, often harsh, look at two people caught within and crippled by the boundaries of their culture. <br />For a book in which so little happens, \\"Waiting\\" is a very compelling read. It won the National Book Award and the PEN/Faulkner Award. Well deserved.	2002-02-21
US	52832550	R1YS1ZGE5AVBHG	0156006529	957325974	Where or When  : A Novel	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Plagued by underdevelopment	Sian Richards has just published her third book of poetry, an ad for which appears in the newspaper. When Charles Callahan happens upon the ad, and sees Sian's picture, he realizes that she is the girl he fell in love with at summer camp, when they were both 14, some 30-odd years ago. Overwhelmed with memory and emotion, he decides to write her a letter and thus begins a correspondence which leads the two of them, very quickly, into each other's arms.  Trapped in unhappy marriages, together they find release from their individual realities and obsessively romanticize their relationship. Of course, guilt and complications ensue. And then, abruptly, the novel ends.<br />There is now no reason for any of you to read this book.  The extent of its depth is encapsulated above. In fairness, it is a moving, quiet novel, at times both sad and beautiful in its language and emotion, but ultimately one which leaves you unsatisfied; it is so lean, both in length and development, that the reader is never afforded the opportunity to fully involve himself in its world. Everything about the story and its characters sits on the surface of the page, as if the writer is keenly afraid of exploring the deeper issues at hand. <br />With &quot;Weight of Water&quot; a few years later, Shreve proved that she is a very capable talent who can write above the sort of superficial emotion she concerns herself with here. Skip &quot;Where or When,&quot; but don't skip Shreve altogether.	2002-02-19
US	52832550	R1WLCRESEWF2DK	0767902890	852411699	The Things They Carried	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An extraordinary literary accomplishment	O'Brien weaves together fact and fiction in a series of overlapping stories that focus on the experiences of a single platoon in Vietnam. He himself is one of the characters, although it is difficult to discern what is authentically autobiographical and what is not since the line between reality and storytelling is one which O'Brien very intentionally blurs. His prose, at times, strikes hard with brutal reality, at times with an equally effective, quieter lyrical quality, but always true to both its characters and to the totality of their experience. It's an extraordinary literary accomplishment. It will change your outlook on life, and your understanding of war, forever. Highly recommended.	2002-02-17
US	52832550	R1WQONE7C1O1OA	014029628X	180693945	Girl in Hyacinth Blue	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A lovely novel	A lovely novel which traces a painting believed to be a lost masterpiece by Vermeer from its present day owner all the way back to the painting's inception and creation. Vreeland sets the novel up as a series of short stories, each about the painting's respective owners and the spiritual/emotional impact it has on each of their lives. She succeeds in letting each story flow naturally, with imagination and gentle creativity, plucking out a moment in time in the life of each owner and allowing the reader to experience fully the circumstances of their lives, the circumstances within which the painting has comes into their possession, and the direct impact the painting has within that context. It's a daring piece of writing for a relatively inexperienced author (I believe this is her second book) and, to her credit, she handles it quite well, even if some of the vignettes are stronger and more passionate than others.	2002-02-17
US	52832550	R2GX4QCIZMU9EM	0226469360	629784239	The Stone Angel (Phoenix Fiction)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great character	Hagar Shipley is 90 years old. She's a little senile but still as strong-willed as ever. Her son and daughter-in-law can no longer take care of her and decide to put her in a nursing home. She, of course, will have none of that -- she runs away! As she journeys through the final days of her life, Hagar takes us on a journey of years past as she recollects and takes stock of the life she's led. She's a great character, manipulative and proud, sweet one moment, a holy terror the next. Laurence brings her to life with great skill, allowing the reader to see past her obvious character flaws and come to understand her more than she ultimately understands herself. This is the first book of Laurence's I've read. I'll definitely read more.	2002-02-17
US	52832550	R2WK6ZGX6IVJDQ	0805062858	538222637	Headlong: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Entertaining farce	I was waffling on reading this one but a friend gave me the final nudge I needed and I'm awfully glad he did. This book moves from comic novel to theatrical farce so smoothly you can practically see it on stage as you read. Farce is ridiculously hard to do and Frayn is very, very good at it. In fact, his play &quot;Noises Off&quot; is a farce about a farce and is one of the funniest productions I've ever seen. <br />Philosopher turned amateur art-historian Martin Clay and his art historian wife Kate take an extended stay in the country, mostly for Martin to finish his book on &quot;the impact of Nominalism on Netherlandish art of the 15th century.&quot; They happen upon their neighbors -- Tony Churt and his wife Laura, owners of a dilapidated manor (and wonderfully vivid supporting characters) --and get invited to dinner where they are asked to assess the value of several paintings in the family estate. Among these paintings, Martin believes, is a lost masterpiece by Flemish artist Peter Bruegel. He doesn't say a word to the Churts about this &quot;discovery&quot;; instead, he sets out to prove its authenticity and immediately begins plans on staging an elaborate art theft. <br />The progression of plot depends very heavily on art history but because its told through the spinning wheels of Martin's over-active mind, it's very entertaining stuff, and you don't feel as if you've walked into an art-history text book (well, okay, there are moments when you do, but I found it all rather interesting). Martin is beautifully comical in his earnestness and completely believable at that. Very British too, which adds to his appeal. <br />The story comes to a frenzied head near the end, as farces generally do, and goes out with a bang. Fun stuff.	2002-02-17
US	52832550	RDW02ERCIL1VL	0679781501	773489309	The Insult	Books	2	9	14	N	N	Intriguing story that goes nowhere	Martin Blom gets shot in the head by a random bullet on his way home from the grocery store one night, which results in his blindness. While in the hospital recovering, he discovers that he can see, but only at night. Once released from the hospital, he leaves behind his old life and begins a new one -- sleeping all day, having breakfast in lonely diner-restaurants after dark, living in a sleazy hotel, associating with other nocturnal characters, dating a stripper. He also begins to believe that he is part of some larger experiment and that his doctor is behind the fact that he is able to see at night but not during the day, which slowly begins to disintigrate his grasp on day to day life. <br />When his stripper-girlfriend turns up dead, Blom becomes a suspect and sets out to find her killer. <br />The book is filled with a dark, hallucinatory atmosphere in gothic-like fashion. It lures you into this world with great promise. Problem is, it goes nowhere. Several storylines emerge, but none get developed. Characters appear and quickly drop out of sight -- there is very little consistency and zero carry-through. It's like Thomson had this cool idea but didn't have any clue what to do with it. As the reader, however, you're compelled to keep reading, hoping that this is all going to lead up to something. It doesn't. Then, after 260 pages, we enter an entirely new story. The narrator changes to someone we've never heard of before. This narrator begins telling her life story. We enter a completely different world. Talk about changing gears. The bigger problem is that this new story is better than the one the book begins with, mostly because it progresses with consistency, and pretty soon you forget the first half of the book ever existed. I actually had to remind myself that I was still reading the same book. Sure, it all comes together, marginally, in the end, but so marginally that it is completely ineffective. And besides, by then, you hardly care about Martin Blom -- he has become some interesting character in some book you once read. <br />On the cover of the book there is a quote that reads: A psychological thriller that has just about everything.\\" And it does have a little bit of everything: there is blindness and distortion and hallucination and paranoia and peculiarity, there is mental disturbance and murder and incest. It's a murder mystery and a gothic drama and a family saga. <br />But most of all, it's a dud.	2002-02-17
US	52832550	R9C3KOCGT8BP7	0141001836	204390030	A Thief in the Night: Life and Death in the Vatican	Books	2	33	43	N	N	Not much of a revelation	When Pope John Paul I died suddenly after only 33 days into his Papacy, conspiracy theories and rumors of murder erupted because of inconsistencies in the Vatican's statements. Officially, the Pope died of a heart attack, but there were conflicting stories as to who found the body, what time the body was found, what time the Pope died, which spawned further questions outside the Vatican about things like why there was no autopsy, why the embalming began so soon, etc. And as time went on, the murder-conspiracy theories got really out of hand. <br />John Cornwell, who also wrote Hitler's Pope, investigates these allegations as an independent journalist, ten years after the fact. He interviews all the major Vatican players, gains access to the current Pope, and learns very little new information. Except that there is all sorts of confusion about aspects of that night which seems to be inherent to the way the Vatican is run, not specifically to why this pope died. Cornwell ultimately comes up with his own theory of what happened that night. <br />Each chapter is pretty much a transcript of one of Cornwell's interviews. It goes something like this: I arrived here, had to get through red tape, finally got permission to talk to so and so, and this is what they said to me: transcript. I found it pretty uninspiring. <br />If there is any interest to be found here at all, it's the glimpse you get into the Vatican. One of the advantages of having so much of the book be in other people's words, is the immediate access the reader has into the personalities that make up the Vatican. There is so much gossip going on it and so much back-stabbing, at times it feels like a soap opera. As far as Cornwell's investigation goes, it's pretty wimpy. Yeah, he talks to a bunch of people, and he does find out some interesting tidbits that clear up a few minor points up, but all in all, there was very little here to warrant a book. He should have written a magazine article and been done with it.	2002-02-17
US	52832550	RPLQZTIP9RKZC	0805063021	310161743	Canone Inverso: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Haunting and eloquent	The format of a story within story (within a story) is one that Maurensig is successful and obviously most comfortable with since both this and The Luneberg Variation take the same format. In this, his second novel, Maurensig tells the story of a beautiful voilin with a strange carving on it, which goes up for auction and is bought by someone who obviously has a long history with it. Upon taking it home, a stranger comes knocking who wants nothing more than to lay eyes on the violin, to authenticate its existance. Curious, the new owner of the instrument asks him why he is so interested in this particular violin and the stranger tells the story of how he came to learn of it. He tells about an eccentric violin virtuoso he met many years ago, who told _him_ a story about the beautiful violin with a strange carving which belonged to him. The eccentric is the topic of his own story, relating the events of his life, the cruel music school he endured, his friendship with a young schoolmate who considered himself more talented than he, and his relationship -- which was his lifeline really -- with this particular instrument. To elaborate any more would mean filling the review with spoilers. Sufficing to say, it is an engaging book, haunting and eloquent, and very satisfying in the realization of its ending which puts a surprising new light on the story within a story within a story the reader has just encountered.	2002-02-17
US	52832550	R11TT77JH8EXL0	080410753X	877380177	The Kitchen God's Wife	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Culturally illuminating	A well-written story that exposes the cultural hardships of life for women in 1930's and 40's China through the story of Winnie. Winnie has kept many secrets of her life from everyone she loves -- everyone except her friend Helen who now suddenly decides to tell these secrets to Winnie's adult daughter, Pearl. Faced with being exposed, Winnie sits Pearl down and tells her the truths of her life, her sufferings and hardships and misfortunes. <br />This was an interesting and well-written book, but my experience of it was interrupted by Tan's switching of narrators. Tan begins the novel with Pearl as narrator and then shortly into the book she switches to Winnie as narrator. We only hear her daughter's voice again at the end. So she sets the reader up for one voice but then she abandons that voice in favor of another. The other difficulty I had was that the further into the story I read, the more emotionally excruciating the experience of reading it became. There was nothing but misery everywhere for its characters. It was really more than both Winnie and I could take. Tan never lets up and by the end you just get tired of misfortune after misfortune after misfortune -- the story almost loses credibility because of it.	2002-02-17
US	52832550	R304M624ZGA4BH	0060931949	418557027	House Made of Dawn (Perennial Classics)	Books	3	87	96	N	N	Beautiful but frustrating prose	Gorgeous writing about the mystical Indian culture and the personal tragedies that concurred with that culture's demise at the hands of the White Man -- authentic, serene, spiritual and heartbreaking. It's the story of Abel, raised in the old Indian culture by his grandfather and swallowed up by the &quot;white man's&quot; culture as an adult. <br />While it's beautifully written, this is a very hard book to follow. Momaday moves through time freely and the reader is constantly lost as to where he is and who his characters are and what any of them have to do with each other. He's constantly switching, with nothing more than a paragraph break, from myths and dreams and the present and the past and previously unknown characters that he picks up on mid-stream. There is very little background to the story until the very last chapter, and so if you've stuck it out til then you're rewarded. It all makes much more sense in the end. This is a book that merits two readings -- the first for the experience of its spirituality, the second to fill in the blanks of the story. It's only 200 pages but it took me four days to get through it - it slows you down when you're constantly back tracking trying to figure out what you've missed only to find that you haven't really missed anything - at least not anything that you know of yet. It's written very surreally and it gets a bit frustrating to tell the truth. There is alot to give Momaday credit for here though. It was an interesting experience but not one that would make me go and seek out everything else he's written.	2002-02-17
US	52832550	R27DDUXNN4F4TA	0380709902	150623095	Foreign Affairs	Books	4	101	105	N	N	An understated pageturner	Characterization and social observation take center stage in Alison Lurie's Pulitzer Prize winning book (1985). It's witty and droll and rather literary, and in its own understated way a page turner. Vinnie Miner is an English professor in her 50's, divorced and not exceptionally pretty. In fact, she looks (and in public, acts) like an old school marm. She's spending a semester in London to research a book on children's lymericks. In a parallel story, Fred Turner is an exceptionally attractive, 29 year old English professor, newly separated from his wife, who is also spending the semester in England to research his own book. They are aquaintances and peers, and work for the same university in the states. Their stories cross paths throughout the book, adding to the juxtaposition of their two lives. <br />Vinnie and Fred are vastly different characters who share common human need: companionship, acceptance, love. Foreign Affairs is the story of the paths each of their lives takes while on this sojourn in England, how each reaches his own moment of truth. Along the way, we are greatly entertained by their independent observations of England and of English high society, of the inherent differences between American and English mannerisms and lifestyles, and of the pretenses we all put forth when interacting with the world. There are also some wonderful secondary characters, who occasionally upstage the two main characters, much to the reader's delight. <br />The novel moves along splendidly, until the very end, when, unfortunately, Lurie finds it necessary to throw in several plot twists which cater more to the dramatic, and play on coincidence and unfounded surprise. These are so utterly unnecessary that I became angry at Lurie for spoiling such a wonderfully engaging book. Still, despite a few weak moments near the end, this one gets four stars	2002-02-17
US	52832550	R2BMRLKC2FJRGE	1569472408	54963655	The Gravity of Sunlight	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A story of many layers	Rosa Shand's first book is filled with simple but beautiful language, description of the physical and the emotional experience of living in Uganda during the time right before and during Idi Amin's political coup. As the story unfolds, Shand manages to very gently capture the very complicated relationships between husband and wife, wife and lover, amidst the rhythms of life in a foreign land, all which help make this a very successful debut novel.<br />Agnes is our narrator, and she, her husband John and their young children have moved to Uganda. John is a professor teaching at the college; Agnes teaches part-time at the lower school. Each of them is lost in their respective idealisms, and their relationship is suffering for it, as they don't seem to have an intimate connection on any real level. Agnes, who is always searching to fulfill what she feels is a lack of meaningful attachment to her husband, meets Wulf, who is also teaching at the university, and is a friend of her husband's, they embark on a tentative relationship.<br />What works about this novel, is that this affair, in all its various stages and with all its various consequences, is written in a way that echoes the lifestyle and the political uncertainties of the country. Shand weaves Agnes' story with an intimate look at a society very different from Agnes'and our own, and these dual storylines are revealed piece by piece to the reader as the circumstances of Agnes' daily life allows. She uses deceptively simple language to tell a story of many layers, each one as lush and as precarious as the next. A fine book to curl up with on a wintry weekend, which is about how long it will take to read.	2002-02-17
US	52832550	R19JB2WG09Z2MD	0385720955	850910906	The Blind Assassin: A Novel	Books	5	10	13	N	N	An enriching journey	Margaret Atwood takes what could have ended up being a very long rambling story -- about a woman of some privilege who gets married off as a strategic financial alliance and thus ends up miserable -- and lures the reader in as if this woman's life is the most fascinating life story you'll ever encounter. The story is told in several narratives: the novel within the novel within the novel. The first narrative is, of course, Atwood's; the second narrator is Iris, the protaganist, in her old age, who is writing down the story of her life (she's a crotchety, sarcastic delight); within Iris' own \\"book,\\" Iris includes the text of her \\"peculiar\\" sister Laura's novel, titled \\"The Blind Assassin,\\" which we read in its entirety in alternating chapters. Atwood/Iris also uses newspaper clippings to tell parts of the story; they are interspersed throughout the book and help authenticate Iris' tale. <br />If all of this sounds confusing, it's not. The story skillfully unfolds and all of it works together, and ultimately comes together, just beautifully. I could offer up a full review, but I'd never do it justice. Easily the best book I read last year.	2002-02-17
US	52832550	R2G3RVU526HWH8	0345430565	693524510	The Two Mrs. Grenvilles	Books	4	31	32	N	N	Gossipy and fun	A quasi-fictional book, this is a delicious story about the higher echelons of New York society in the 1940's and 50's. It was inspired by the real life of Ann and William Woodward, and William's murder in 1955 by his wife. She was acquitted of any wrongdoing. But the murder's way besides the point here. The fun of this book is the insider view of those high society circles. Dunne, a writer for Vanity Fair, dishes about these folks with a giggle and takes great pleasure at exposing them and their snobbish ways. The main focus is Ann Grenville (Woodward), social climber extraordinaire, who sets her sights on Billy and his money and his lifestyle. She's a showgirl and his family wants nothing to do with her. Once they marry, she schemes constantly as to how to get accepted in those tightknit circles that usually don't take kindly to outsiders. And she does get eventually get included, even if she's talked about behind her back. The parties and the hobnobbing and the backstabbing all escalate and get out of hand, of course, and lead to one fateful night. A fun, gossipy, mindless read -- I thoroughly enjoyed it for what it was.	2002-02-17
US	52832550	R3H22R7FEHAKH2	037575024X	467270913	Monster: Living Off the Big Screen	Books	2	13	20	N	N	Prima Donna Writer Whines About Hollywood	I bought this book used for $2 and that's about all it was worth. Which isn't to say it doesn't tell an interesting story, but not quite in the way it intends. <br />John Gregory Dunne and his wife Joan Didion are Hollywood screenwriters. In this book, Dunne writes the story of the travails of writing the script for the movie \\"Up Close and Personal\\" (a terrible movie, to be sure, despite the fact that it grossed over $100 million worldwide). It is clear that his intention with this book was to garner sympathy for screenwriters (principally himself) - the hell the industry puts them through while writing and rewriting (and rewriting) scripts and the industry's inappreciativeness for all of their hard work. The book backfires though, because the reader ends up with little sympathy for Dunne who comes off as an egotistical, difficult to work with, prima donna writer with very little talent, and even fewer good character traits. <br />The interesting part of this story is not the travails of the writer nor the ins and outs of writing this script, but rather, the dynamic between the \\"studio\\" and \\"the writer\\" both of whom are difficult and both of whom have a very excessive view of their worth to the project (and neither of which any one of us would want to work with, not if we were in our right minds anyway.) Even more interesting is how Dunne is compulsive about showing the studio in the worst possible light, without realizing he himself comes off as badly as they do. <br />True, this movie takes eight years to make, with hundreds of rewrites (literally) along the way. Dunne and his wife initiate the project (which was originally supposed to be the story of the news anchor Jessica Savitch,) then after several rewrites of the script they're fired. Several other writers are brought in and many new rewrites are undertaken. Then Dunne and his wife are rehired. The story keeps changing. They rewrite and rewrite. In the meanwhile, a director is hired who, apparently, is impossible to work with, and the producer quits. Then Dunne and his wife quit. Then there are new writers and more rewrites. Then, Dunne and his wife are rehired. Then they rewrite and rewrite. Then the movie is made. They continue to rewrite, scene after scene, all through the shooting of the film. <br />Throughout this process, Dunne both grandstands and whines. And grandstands and whines. And whines. About how the studio is destroying their script by constantly asking them to change the characters and the story. About how the studio is too demanding. About how the studio is not paying them enough. About how difficult the studio is to get along with. About this and about that. Never mind that Dunne is equally as difficult and demanding. This book just about takes you to the limit of your patience with this man. <br />And yet, it's compulsive reading. You're privy to a powerstruggle (for control of the script) of the Hollywood kind, and you leave this book with a renewed appreciation of the egos involved in Tinsletown and with a sort of amazement that movies, in general, ever actually get made at all, given the process and the players involved.	2002-02-17
US	52832550	R3JQJ4JLJU1VW6	0192835203	334204670	Lady Audley's Secret (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	3	21	23	N	N	Very readable Victorian mystery	A very readable Victorian mystery, I guess it would qualify in today's market as a cozy.  I understand that Braddon was influenced by Wilke Collins, and therefore it is advantageous to also read The Woman in White, a generally more complex novel.  <br />In any case, the first half of Lady Audley's Secret is compelling in its set-up of the mystery that follows, and I read it very quickly as it kept calling me back to it. The rest of the book, while still interesting, is spent observing the Lady's nephew (through marriage) as he attempts to discover the circumstances of the disappearance of his good friend which he believes is related to the Lady's &quot;secret.&quot; The reader easily guesses much of the circumstance of the novel, although it's not quite as simple as it appears. It is also important to note that Braddon plots rather deftly and she savors the development of the novel's progression. <br />I did have some trouble getting through the last 100 pages of the book, as there was very little left for the reader to do but follow around the nephew's movements as he attempted to prove his theory. And, while Braddon does offer a twist at the end, it is not entirely unexpected, and so is not as effective as it could have been. Still, there is much to like about this book; in contains all the elements of Victorian society and, as such, has several layers within which it serves its audience. Not a must read, but if you're interested in Victorian literature, this is a book which was a sensation during the author's lifetime and may well be worth a look into.	2002-02-17
US	52832550	R14QYCCRM2SFQL	0312140940	65783878	Wonder Boys: A Novel	Books	4	25	28	N	N	Wonderful characters	Tripp is a 40-something university professor and novelist who is having trouble finishing his fourth book: he's seven years and over 2,000 pages into it and he's not even halfway done. His favorite pastimes are getting high, getting drunk, and cheating on his wife, all while battling (and losing) his reflex of running off on wild adventures at the drop of a hat. Terry Crabtree, Tripp's gay editor and old friend, is flamboyant, likes college age boys, and is even more irresponsible with drug and drink. <br />A satire on the literary life, Wonder Boys is an enjoyable if somewhat cumbersome read. Great characters, all of them on a quest for self-acceptance, but Chabon gets bogged down by his obvious affection for literary description, which, while startingly good, distracts from the action at hand and puts too much space between the character and the reader. The book reads like a series of run-on scenes, rather than a flowing novel, which is probably why it made for a good film. <br />The relationship between Tripp, the main character, and James, one of his students, is a focal point of the novel. Tripp inadvertedly helps James kill a dog, and then spends the weekend running around with it in his trunk, trying at various times to dispose of it. But the relationship is deeper than its lighthearted treatment. The two of them end up palling around together all weekend, getting drunk and stoned, and finding themselves in over the top situations, which includes scenes with Crabtree, Tripp's wife who has just left him, his wife's very Jewish family, Tripp's lover who is pregnant, a stolen jacket onced owned by Marilyn Monroe, a stolen car, a drag queen, and on and on. <br />At times I marveled at Chabon's prose and his penchant for description -- that he loves his characters and respects them for who they are is evident, that he can be simultaneously playful and serious, that he can write circles around a good many of today's writers is also true. However, while the book islight in spirit, it is often not light on the printed page, and you sometimes have a difficult time getting pulled into the hilarity and absurdity of the action.	2002-02-17
US	52832550	R19XZH9JET62YU	0802138179	401808599	The Beat Hotel: Ginsberg, Burroughs & Corso in Paris, 1957-1963	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Interesting friends, interesting lives	Throughout 1957 and 1963, members of the Beat movement - primarily Allen Ginsberg, William Burroughs, Gregory Corso, and Brion Gysin (and Peter Orlovsky, although he was mostly just along for the ride with Ginsberg) lived (on and off) in an old, low rent hotel in Paris at 9 Git-Le-Rue. During these years they experimented with various literary forms and a multitude of drugs, and created a large body of their work. There were many interesting relationship dynamics going on amongst them all, and most of all this book focuses on those relationships and how they affected each of their respective creative output. <br />The author is in love with both Ginsberg and Burroughs though, so the narrative is somewhat skewed. He seems to have unfavorable reactions to Corso's drinking, for instance, but practically glorifies Burroughs' practice of drug-induced creativity. Still, it's an interesting account of the time spent in Paris.	2002-02-17
US	52832550	R20E1QRC2US0DP	0802136346	166854560	Being There	Books	3	11	12	N	N	A disturbing reflection on society	Every few years I take in a dose of Kosinski, and his time rolled around again, and I chose \\"Being There.\\" That the novel is disturbing should not be surprising giving Kosinski's body of work. What is surprising about this slender book is the way in which it is disturbing. There is no chilling, psychologically twisted character here. There is, equally, no brutality, of a sexual nature or otherwise. In fact, Chance, the main character, is indeed an innocent -- he has spent his entire life tending to a garden and otherwise confined to one room. He has only interacted with two other people in his entire life -- The Old Man, who took him in when he was just a child, and a maid in the house they live in. And those interactions were minimal at best. Everything that Chance knows about life he has learned by watching television. It is not Chance who is the disturbing factor of this book (however, the confinements under which he lived his life is certainly disturbing); as the story unfolds, we quickly realize that it is the society around Chance which is disturbed -- the society each and every one of us live in. And to the extent that the parable is true, it is a chilling view of ourselves that we see. Unfortunately, the book doesn't hold up the longer it goes on, and, in the end, it becomes a parody of itself more than a satire of society at large. <br />When the \\"old man\\" who took Chance in takes ill and dies, Chance is unceremoniously thrown out of the only home he's ever known. Wearing one of the old man's tailored suits, he leaves the house and is almost immediately struck by a limousine belonging to a rich society type, Elizabeth Eve Rand (\\"EE\\"). She takes him home to be evaluated by the doctors who are caring for her much older sick husband, and he ends up becoming their permanent house guest. As Chance, who is dubbed Chancey Gardner by EE, interacts with the household and its visitors, he relies heavily on the only thing he knows of human interactions -- what he's observed of them on tv. Whenever it is necessary to socialize, he recalls a similar situation he's seen on tv, and mimics. The only topic he ever talks about is gardening, as it is the only thing he knows. So, when he tells the President of the United States, who is visiting Mr. Rand, of the annual birth, death and rebirth of a garden, his statement is taken as a metaphor on the state of the economy, and suddenly a business man and financial advisor is born. Chauncey is hounded by the media, becoming a guest on news programs and interacting with chancellors and ambassadors at social functions. He continues his \\"metaphor\\" whenever he speaks, and he is deemed a brilliant by his observers. He has become a full blown celebrity. <br />That this simpleton becomes a celebrated business advisor, via the machinations of the media, is certainly a strong statement by Kosinksi. And while the novel is disturbing in this regard -- and there's no escaping that it is -- I ultimately found it a bit repetitive, a bit shallow in its own development as a story. It's a wonderful premise and, probably, an important book. However, it begins to fall flat the longer it goes on, not finding any new ground to cover once its point is made. Still, a book that deserves a reading.	2002-02-17
US	52832550	R3CJO933IOAYO0	0688160964	249213514	Freaky Deaky	Books	3	0	1	N	N	light entertainment but nothing too special	An ex-bomb squad copper, a few sticks of dynamite, a variety of seedy characters and some finely-tuned double crossing dominate this thinly plotted novel, but there really isn't anything all that explosive about this book. It's just a light, entertaining read about a few mildly dangerous, self-absorbed characters and the street-wise, mild mannered cop who's on their trail.	2002-02-17
