US	52837815	R1065OZFLBKX50	0679889582	791950326	The Berenstain Bears' Mad, Mad, Mad Toy Craze	Books	3	12	13	N	N	No one will like this because it is true	This book came right on the heels of the Beany Baby toy craze, but it fits perfectly for anyone, kid or grownup, who spends more time/money/interest on whatever the latest craze be, (Barbie, Yu-gi-oh, Digimon, the JFK auction, etc).  I read this one out loud to my son, putting in sound effects and laughing at the characters, at the little whaddevers they were maniacally trying to buy, at the monomania of the cubs over the whole mess.  I fear this may hit too close to home for some people--ever notice how many Beanys turn up at yard sales these days?  SPOILER ALERT!!!   As another reviewer noted, there is no real ending, the story just trails off, with Brother Bear's \\"What the heck did we just do?\\" look, and nobody's really learned anything.  Now of course, there is a moral regarding passing fads, but it's just not as spelled out as explicitly as in most of the other books.  Personally this had me on the floor laughing, my favorite line being \\"the only thing you could do with them was just LOOK at them\\", but I can see where other parents would object.  Buy this one at your own risk, and write your own ending.	2005-01-02
US	52837815	R1330TFTW81V0W	0785278826	68838231	Song of Fire	Books	3	3	3	N	N	No Drums, No Trumpets	The little boy hated &quot;stories that ended by being somebody's dream.&quot;and I don't blame him.  (Spoilers below, you've been warned.)  As a Christian fantasy, Betz's Song of Fire is a nice departure from the  usual Tolkienesque stuff; unfortunatly this is also something of a  drawback, stumbling into Allegory mode more than once.  The plot is of  Stranger in a Strange land:  Out ice-skating, Jeremy falls, in a comet of  song and light into the realm of Persus Am, where all music has been  forbidden.  Bentz can draw a convincing world, his descriptions of the  various countries are believeable.  There is a vague resemblence to Narnia;  Jeremy has been sent to restore faith in God to the silenced masses, in  defiance of the dictator Umbriel; specifically he leads a group of the  faithful to the Promised Land Caladria.  Much is made of Christian faith,  of turning back to God, while at the same time the plotline compels.  All  the same, I wasn't completely satisfied.  It is no easy task to fit  spiritual guidance into a story without sounding twerpy; at one point  Jesus, or &quot;Emajus&quot; as he is known here, stops by to give Jeremy a  pep talk, a scene which almost works......sort of.  Interesting characters,  ideas are brought up, then dropped.  Jeremy is continually seeking his girl  Anne, tho we never really see much of her, much less why he loves her.  The  terrible tryant Umbriel comes off more as a conniving politican.  Much of  Bentz' imagined land suffers from being an &quot;Allegorism&quot; than a  real place, Caladria comes too close to being a Christian Oz, conviently  hidden away until needed.  To me, the biggest drawback is of the initial  idea--the banishment of music, yet this book comes off as strangely silent.   Jeremy's guitar is mentioned, there is a song at a political rally, but  the only real sense of music is at an &quot;Emajian&quot; church, which  comes off as a revival meeting.  Bentz is an inovative writer--I liked the  &quot;musicbombs&quot;--but it's not always easy to follow him; his ending  is especially too abrupt.  As a Christian counter to fluff like the  Celestine Prophecy, this is a wonderful book; but as a work of fantasy  tread carefully, there's cracks in this ice.	2000-06-23
US	52837815	R3UPNE947QCLSO	031287216X	507991744	Venus	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Tom Swift It Ain't	I wanted to enjoy this book more than I actually did.(Possible spoiler alert!)  In truth I expected one of those 800-page monsters that touch on every conceivable detail and was very disappointed to find it basically a  good corking read, but not necessarily about Venus specically.  Indeed, the  setting could have been a century before, with &quot;Himalayas&quot; or  &quot;North Pole&quot; in place of Venus.  Bova does include details about  the second planet, and a stern warning on the Greenhouse effect; this is  fine, yet much of this could have been altered with minimal effect on the  plot.  The actual plot is basic:  Hated younger son Van competes with his  power-hungery father's greatest rival in retriving the body of favorite son  Alex from the shrouded inferno of Venus, in return for a ten-billion dollar  prize.  In process he strengthens and discovers the Truth About Who He  Really Is, in a Hamletesque turn.  It's not a bad idea in itself, Van  narrates the story himself, giving more insight to his character.  All the  same, first-person (to me anyway) is not always the best way to tell a  science fiction story.  Bova doesn't mean to skimp on details, yet an  interplanetary journey needs more pizzazz than just a super-expedition.   Venus is not the Himalayas; what's wrong with some Tom Swift Gee-Whiz-WOW!   once in a while?	2000-06-14
US	52837815	R3KR815D2J5Y5X	0399145702	717777341	The Cat Who Robbed a Bank	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Been a Quiet Week in......	LJ Braun''s latest book is like a Whitman sampler, you know what you're getting, but it's still delicious.  Compared to the previous book's (Cat Who Sang for the Birds) disappointment, I approached this with caution, and  found it a pleasant jaunt thru Moose County.  This time, the actual murder,  of a noted visiting Chicago jeweler, is more prominent; at the same time,  all the wonderful details LJB is known for, florish. Still, the Actual  Murder never truly dominates.  SPOILER ALERT! The case itself is quite  routine, tho I don't think it's too much a surprise as to who the culprit  is. Oddly, many of the various subplots are either missing or too neatly  tied off, the marraige of Celia Robinson to a town local, for example,  while Polly's famous jealousy has gone dormant.  Qwill himself has maybe  too well settled into his role as town benefactor; he has lost much of the  &quot;Jed Clampett&quot; charm.  Even the famed Siamese cats have settled  down; Koko's clues are few, if helpful.  Are they simply getting old?   Koko's age, at least ten years, can be roughly guessed at; I see nothing  wrong with his teaching Polly's Bootsie-Brutus, and Catta, also Siamese.   There is also quite a lot of looking backwards in odd places; long-time  readers will note many little references to the evens in previous books.   There is even a long look at Qwill's mother, the famed Mackintosh maiden  who married (it turns out) a Scandinavian.  None of this really distracts  from the charm of Ms. Braun's Moose County, but the books are beginning to  sound akin to the famed Lake Woebegon, if with a higher mortality rate.  I  kept hoping there would be more details on the town and the people; the  Actual Murder didn''t see so important anymore.  Whether this is a failing  or a success is for every reader to decide.	2000-02-21
US	52837815	R1HA0AGKR0KXBU	0151004153	110315803	The Haunted Tea-Cosy: A Dispirited and Distasteful Diversion for Christmas	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Bahum Bug and Happy New Year	This book is a wonderfl antithesis to all the forced jollities of Dicken's beloved chestnut.  Old Scrooge should only meet this Bahum Bug!  Instead, the Yuletide Bug takes the dour Edward Gravel through a tour of Christmases  that Never Were, Isn't, and Never Will Be, all shown in wonderfully  ambiguous terms.  Of course the Moral Lesson Is Learned, and Mr.Gravel  learns to sheer cheer with the equally grey people of his town of Lower  Spigot.  But the delight is that nowhere does Gorey force the lesson on us,  never do the odd little tragedies, even in cemetaries, force one to See the  Real Meaning of Christmas--until we have finished the story, and even then  it is a droll little moral.  This is one story I intend to make a holiday  standard in my family.	1999-12-05
US	52837815	R1WBVTXBAY3M26	0375402519	231777935	South of the Border, West of the Sun	Books	4	9	11	N	N	What''s left looks good	Murakami's books increasingly remind me of jigsaw puzzles missing several pieces--I never learn exactly what happened, or why.  To Western readers who are used to having the details spelled out his book can only  disappoint.  Yet I still enjoyed SoftheB,WoftheS.  It is a deceptively  simple story of Hajime, a man with a sccessful life, career, family--who  suddenly meets his childhood sweetheart Shimamoto.  At once he is plunged  into a crisis of heart, soul, duty, little of which resembles the western  conceptions of such a romance.  Both Hajime and Shimamoto had grown up  fairly typical modern Japanese young people (the story could have been set  in the US), yet in the twenty-five years they are parted the Murakami magic  subtly alters them.  Shimamoto never explains what happened to her, where  she was, and her fate is in keeping with this (Don't worry, I'm not  spoiling it!).  Hajime never has really recovered from knowing her, or from  his teenage lover Izumi, who remians equally engimatic; this book is  faintly reminiscent, for those who read it, of Kawabata's famed Snow  Country.  Murakami continually considers the thin gray line between  abandonment and freedom; his people again and again must confront just what  they want to do, just how free is truly free.  Others may not consider the  ending a happy one, but for me, it is enough.	1999-08-09
US	52837815	R1VPVM7Y3FEQ0U	0886777925	814095493	Compass of the Soul: River into Darkness #2	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Chasing the Fox that isn*t......	I have eagerly awaited the second half of this set, only to suffer the same frustration as before.  Sean Russell paints his Georgian-Victorian world with much detail, a world where magic is slowly, inexorably dying.   His fault is that he almost never shows that magic.  Eldritch, the last  true mage--ever distinct from mundane humans--is quite long lived, has  disturbing dreams, yet this appears to be the extent of anything we the  reader can tell.  Much of the book is taken with Erasmus Flattery,  Eldritch*s former student, in pursuing Anna, who would resurrect the  magical arts, and in Eldritch*s pursuit of him.  The undercurrent of *other  worlds* runs thru the book; as in Sea Without a Shore, there is a brief  glimpse of that realm, along with one of a Hiroshiman cataclysm.  What's  difficult is that up unto the very end, the magic arts are firmly kept  *offstage*, it is difficult to understand what everyone is seeking for, or  warning against.  A map would have been useful as well.	1999-06-27
US	52837815	R2CIMC1R9YQ0Z	1577482611	396983857	Hinds' Feet on High Places (Essential Christian Library)	Books	3	8	17	N	N	Eat This, It*s Good For You	This is a spiritual and uplifting book.  It is also an overly sweet and slightly preachy book.  I admit from the (paperback) cover I was hoping for the tale of a doe deer, *at play in the Fields of the Lord*.  Instead, it  is a well-meant, if vaguely generic, journey of a timid girl*s journey to  Christ.  Everyone bears a descriptive Pilgrims-Progress name such as the  girl Much-Afraid, the odious Lord Craven, the quiet mountain guides Sorrow  &amp; Suffering, the spirited Mrs.Valiant, etc.  The girl must face many  challenges, of course, must have her faith tested, of course, must fall  away from the path, of course.  All this is encouraging for both the novice  and the longterm Christian; yet it will not be to all tastes.  I have seen  a similar treatment in CS Lewis* The Pilgrim*s Regress, but with stronger  results.  This book is encouraging, yet I find it on the level of a meal  made up of mainly broccoli, whole-wheat bread, brown rice, and tofu:  It is  good, it is filling, but is that all there is?  A good book, but left to  those who enjoy that sort of meal.	1999-05-29
US	52837815	R1IH0TM9KMTUB7	0374189870	56265932	Lives of the Monster Dogs	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Hunderdemmerung	I came away from Lives of the Monster Dogs most wistful.  Sometime in the near future, according to author Kristen Bakis, the great Monster Dogs would leave thier north Canada village, and bring thier Victorian elegance,  thier Frankenstein bodies, thier doomed lives to  Gotham*s refuge of New  York City.  The story line is alternated largely between the sad German  Sheppard Ludwig, and a young (human) woman who becomes thier intermediary  for most of the outside world.  Much is made (too much?)of the life of  thier mad creator and *father* August Rank, he learns, he experiments, he  kills his half-brother.  (Though it is never stated so in the book, I  wonder if the young woman is descended from the brother*s posthumous  child.)  We are given the remote town Rank and his Dogs flee to, the opera  written of its rebellion and destruction; in New York the Monster Dogs hold  a parade in the snow, build a fairybook castle.  And all the while the Dogs  are slowly going mad and dying (with the odd exception of a female  Samoyed). There exists no fully driving storyline, much of the book exists  in retrospective, in describing its portrait of an ultimately doomed  society; the beauty is that this techinique is so effective.  Ludwig tries,  in increasing desparation, to convey his loneliness, his fears to his human  friend.  I come away wishing the Monster Dogs were real, that such wonders  could really invade our simian world.  At best, there is only a dark,  beautiful glimpse.	1999-05-27
US	52837815	R3OHUNUPDFELPD	031218106X	341428683	Groucho Marx, Master Detective	Books	3	1	2	N	N	The Late Show It Is Not	Hard to say.....I wanted to like this book, but five pages into it I could tell what was to come.  Celebrity detectives are popular nowadays, Teddy Roosevelt, Ben Franklin have strutted thier stuff.  But the Groucho book  never got off the ground.  The plot itself is a fine one--a young actress  is murdered, there exist blackmail-worthy photographs of a producer*s wife.   Gangsters, crooked cops, kidnapping, all these ingredients would do fine  in the late-show world of Film Noir.  But the story needs the dry wit of a  Bogart, not Groucho*s wise-cracks, and none of it really delivers. It is  difficult enough to imagine Groucho *unmasked*, as neither the zany  vaudevillian of film, nor the charming wisecraker or TV.  The intrusion of  four-letter words, of the police chief*s smug anti-Semitsm come off as  almost anachronistic, the Hollywood namedropping gets phony.  Too many  details have Sequelitis written across them.  What this reader wanted, what  we could have had, is revealed in the beginning of the chapter describing  Groucho*s (purposed) radio show, called (naturally)  GrouchoMarxMasterDetective.  The radio script crackles and zings with  fervor, too bad the rest of the book just plays by the numbers.	1999-05-27
US	52837815	R10GSSICL9YSHD	0449144763	24584033	The Number of the Beast	Books	2	1	7	N	N	Stay Home	I wanted to like this book, and the initial reading gave me a lot to like, as I had purchased an edition with integral illustrations.  (Why aren*t books done like that anymore?)  Heinlien introduces those wonderful  archtypes, the Mad Scientist and His Lovely Daughter, and thier brand-new  spouses, plus the groom*s sentient flying car; he leads them thru a number  of Alternate Worlds; he postulates an Alien Takeover of Earth; he offers  tidbits such as fossil light, a returned ice age, a lost cousin studying  higher mathematics.  Heinlein even gives a new insight into the biblical  Number of the Beast, it is Six to the power Six to the power Six, or  ZetaZetaZeta!!!  So what went wrong?  Why don*t I want to read this book  again?  I am not fond of the way Heinlien happily keeps taking more and  more odd turns in his story, happily ignoring the details of the ones  before.  The people are fun, even as the narration shifts between them, tho  I could do without all the shuffling of power, and of sensual couplings.   Two-thirds thru the book Heinlien grounds his wandering plot into his  Lazarus Long saga.  Heinlien lovers will gleefully take up the tune,  everyone else will try to figure out where Square One is.  Worst of all  (spoiler alert) Heinlien ends the book with the same method that blew up in  Douglas Adams* face; WHY do authors do that,  does he think he is so  clever?  If you like Robert Heinlien this book is fine, if not, it is very  thin ice.  You have been warned.	1999-05-18
US	52837815	R2P8DB52019JDI	0375400117	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Japanese Mermaid	Luminous and sad are the first two words that remain after reading the Memoirs.  Unreal, surreal, there is both the endless sorrow of Emile Zola, and the refined delicacy of Jane Austen unfolding in the removed quarters  of the geisha houses of Gion in pre-war Kyoto.  The book itself is  deeptively written; Golden says it is a transcription of a Dutch  professor*s tapes made when he interviewed the Geisha--Sayuri--of the  title; thus both the woman and her biographer are removed from real life.   And this is the way the geisha live, the intricacies of day-to-day living,  the tiny vital things the women study almost in secret, cannot be exposed  to the harsh glare of the outside world.  When her parents are quite ill,  Sayuri is gently tricked by Mr.Tanaka the broker into being sent to Kyoto  as indentured maidservant to a renowned geisha house.  There she suffers  the slow torture of being considered and raised up to become one of the  most prominent geisha of her day, 1930s Japan.  Reading this book in tandem  with Runaway Horses, Yukio Mishima*s violent portrait of those days, it is  impossible to believe both are describing the same time, the same country.   The geisha dance, play, sing, all but removed from their fellow citizens;  when Sayuri must flee Kyoto during WW2 her exposure to the outside world is  quite shocking.  The slow unfolding of her loves, with the injured Nobu,  with Nobu*s friend the quiet Chairman of Iwemura Electirc, occurs with an  Austen-attention to detail.  But it is a sad thing, doomed in its own  transedence, its own temprary nature.  The geisha are as removed as  mermaids, ultimately as unreal.	1999-04-17
US	52837815	R31JJATV6GRHJU	0151003602	235106446	The Odd Sea	Books	2	1	6	N	N	Only the Presence of his Absence (Spoilers!)	When Philip Shumway disappears one pleasant afternoon, on the way to or from the pond, he pulls all traces of himself after him.  The beginning of this sad story rings true enough, with searches, false hopes, the anxiety  of the beraved Shumway family, in particular his younger brother Ethan*s  fears and hopes.  Yet halfway thru the story, after the discovery of one on  Philip*s sneakers in the underbrush, the loss begins to seem muted.   Philip, even in the sense of his being gone, has less and less an impact to  his sisters, his father who takes up woodworking , Ethan, who matures with  the help of Philip*s lady friends and builds his own cabin.  This may be an  accurate picture of how a family would cope with such a loss, yet it left  this reader cheated.  Grim hints surface and insist on being noticed--a  serial killer who is later arrested, human bones found in his possession;  mountain lions, though rare, may have passed into the area.  Ethan recalls  the fantastic story of a beaver pond--the Odd Sea of the title--his father  had told them, deriving it from the Oddesy; a name that would become a  metaphor for where lost items go.  A tiny scene, yet it held this reader  more than much of the book.  Ethan does speculate on just what happened to  his gifted older brother, yet by the end of the novel it was as if Philip  had simply stepped outside his story and never bothered to come back or  explain why.  This may be a more realistic way a family would accept thier  loss instead of just obsessing over and over what could have/should be  done, only it still remains a big let-down.  Real life is ambiguous enough,  few endings are happy or even complete, but I expect more from a book.  If  Philip has reaches his enchanted beaver pond, as even Ethan admits, in a  single dazzling verbal drop at the end, THAT is the tale I hope someday to  read.	1999-04-06
US	52837815	R313HT9DYD6ZJ5	0886777941	174092233	Beneath the Vaulted Hills : The River into Darkness	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Germinations and spelunkings	I*m not much for prequels, yet I found myself enjoying this one to Moontide &amp; Magicrise.  That series left me still unsure as to what magic secrets had to be eternally closed; this book does not clarify them  either, a virtue or flaw of Russell*s works.  Oddly, while the previous  works suggested a Georgian England-France world, this one is almost pre- or  early Victorian.  Little actaul Magic is actually on-stage and the reader  must pay attention as to just what secrets Erasmus Flattery and his  contemporaries are looking for, secrets never fully cleared up.  Fully half  of the novel takes place underground as Erasmus and company explore a  mysterious labryinth of caverns.  Anyone who enjoys such deep endevors will  find this compelling in its own right.  Thier discovery of a mage*s rooms  do not dispel the urgency of the larger situation of being trapped  underground; indeed, the cave system and its adventures could almost be set  in our own world.  Yet Russell keeps giving us glimpses of something  deeper, darker, that never quite reveals itself.	1999-04-06
US	52837815	RZTWDNW984PS3	0446606421	799327623	Sewer, Gas and Electric: THE PUBLIC WORKS TRILOGY	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Some of The Sum of Its Parts	(Spoilers, beware!)  Matt Ruff spins an almost Dickensonian texture in his futuristic views of New York, in his eccentric people, his monstrous superskyscrapers, his evil computer genius and henchmen.  In fact, the  book*s richness is its downfall, ideas are raised only to be lost in the  byzantine plots.  Two major plot lines twist around each other without  quite connecting--Philo Dufresne, one of the last black men on earth,  commands a pink-and-green sub, setting out to rescue the last ring-tailed  lemurs on earth; and Harry Gant, who builds the mile-high buildings as well  as Electric Negro servants, becomes the focus of a Disney computer*s  hostile plans.  The focus is ever shifting, somewhat disorienting.  Odd  details resonate like the elavator shafts of the monstrous buildings; plot  points, such as a 181-year old woman, or a mutating shark who lives in  Manhattan*s sewers, are left conviently unexplained.  In truth I found the  double plot confusing, even needless, despite the intriguing nature of the  subs crew and mission, its non-violent terrorism.  One major focus is the  fact that the Black race has been wiped out by an unknown plague, but not  an accidental one.  This loss, of an entire people, is never fully plumbed,  is offset by the creation of the Electric Negro, an android who is the  perfect subservient, but proves to be far more insidious.  Only the  computer program the Eye of Africa gives any real sense of such a loss.   The plot lines themselves wander, shift, jump, remininsce; more than once I  had to backtrack to keep things straight.  Worse, this book has the failing  of an ambiguous ending of too many of its people.  It is basically a  *happy* ending, but is it wrong to ask what happened to the protagonists?   In truth, the ideas could have and should have been broken up into two or  even three novels; as it is, I get a glimpse of Grand amidst the Good.	1999-03-22
US	52837815	RTATWX01PH7RY	0785271783	471869859	What If Jesus Had Never Been Born?: The Positive Impact of Christianity in History	Books	3	7	17	N	N	Still Preaching to the Choir	Reading this book reminds me of the Peanuts cartoon wherein Sally begins  her reports on oceans, stating, *There are no oceans in Texas.  There no  oceans in Kentucky.  There are no oceans...* etc.  When the teacher  complains she retorts, *You wanted us to be thorough.*  That*s about what  this book does, proves its point by stating the obvious.  Mr.Kennedy does   provide an immense array of facts, all tracing the impact of Jesus Christ,  of Christianity, on politics, education, medicine, arts, etc.  He claims  that Xianity has influenced much of human history for the better; each  chapter outline just what Xians have given to the arts and sciences.  In  itself this is admirable, a basic cataloging of Xianity and human history.   Yet I leave the book disappointed--the central question, what would have  happened if, is never fully explored.  Mr.Kennedy is not writing science  fiction, but his lack of speculation weakens the book.  The influence of  Christ is not to be underestimated, the *alternate history* can not be  defined just by leaving out what did happen.  Ray Bradbury and Henry  Turtledove are just two fine examples of authors who DO speculate on *what  would be happen if.....*  Mr.Kennedy seems to regard history as static;  omit all Xian influences and SOMETHING would have to fill the resultant  vacuum.  The one chapter that is provactive is * Christainity and  Christendom*--contrasting the words and deeds of Christ with tragedies such  as thre Spanish Inquisition, and on what such things mean.  More thought in  that direction would have made a stronger book.  As it is, it is a  thoughtful, if not provactive read.  And there are no oceans in Michigan,  ma*am.	1998-09-07
US	52837815	R1HBBXX3673TPM	0879514272	757042144	Titus Alone (Gormenghast Trilogy)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	A look, a last look, is this all?	Titius Alone is the last, and admittedly weakest, of Peake*s great Gormenghast trilogy.  In it, the self-exiled young Lord Titus Groan now  confronts the world he desired to see.  Before, the brooding pile of the Castle, a character in its own right, had influenced everyone, everything within it, even the spirited Titus.  Its absence already throws this book out of kilter with the first two; it really is necessary to read the others first to uncerstand this one.      The world Titus enters is still no less macabre, a city of spires and airships (it is never clear just when the era is).  The people, animal lover Muzzlehatch, tragic Black Rose, no less compelling.  Yet the story appears incomplete, there exists rebellion, fights, illness, Titus is bewitchingly betrayed by the girl who once loved him--but all throughout, whatever Titus, and the book, is seeking, still remains elusive.  He had sought to be free of his dark home Gormenghast, yet carries his title nonetheless, a name mocked by nearly everyone he meets.     I have not personally read this edition, but actively seek it, as it contains Peake*s notes and further ideas, that may have fleshed out Titus in adulthood.  The ending of this book is abrupt--all but within site of the Castle, he yet turns and leaves once again--a scene rather disappointing, certainly puzzling.  While it is too much to ask that someone take up a sequel (it is like trying to add on to CS Lewis), this reader yet wonders, *What happened after......*      Not for everyone*s taste, or even for all who enjoyed the depth of the first two, but a thoughtful last look, a final postcard from a twisting, tangled journey.	1998-07-12
US	52837815	R2FGVZVO1URHUL	0679459553	649148645	Making History: A Novel	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Which dog knows the way?	Making History is one of those books that takes a fascinating idea--What Hitler had not been born?--and wanders around wondering just what to do with it. Certainly the inital premise is compling, graduate student Mark Young and his *Jewish* teacher Zuckerman send sterilization tablets back to the water in Hitlers hometown, thus preventing his parents from conceiving him.  With this act, the world changes--yet not all that much.  Fry upsets the Great Man Idea of history by giving Hitler an understudy--another despot, Rudi Glober, who not only becomes a more effective Fuhrer but also embraces the *Jewish science* of physics Hitler rejected.  The resulting Reich now dominates all Europe with its nuclear warheads--yet how is it different from a world in which Hitler won?  The concept has been done elsewhere--most notably Fatherland--with stronger results.  Fry is considering removing the most provocative man of the 20th century, yet he only replaces a wolf with a tiger.  The time-travel concept, first pills, then a dead rat, are shot backward a hundred years, is mentioned, then dropped.  The homosexual angle is almost silly:  In the alternate world Mark Young finally meets his One True Love,--Stephen, a fellow student.  This idea is not new, in other hands Stephen would simply be Stephanie.  While it is good to see homo-love  mentioned without the mandatory agonizing, in this case it almost distracts from the initial idea of Hitler.  True, gays died in the death camps, but Gay Guy Steve is no different from a Jewish girl in this setting.  Mark, his lover, and Dr.Zuckerman shift from world to world with little real upheaval; the alternate world is grim, yet I have seen far worse ones, and far better.  While Fry pens an enjoyable read, he plays with marvelous ideas he then abandons in favor of his own playful agenda.  A dog sled goes faster if one dog is allowed to lead, not let each one get a sniff along the way.	1998-04-24
US	52837815	RTEJ2HU5JBXM8	0679735720	595491550	Time's Arrow	Books	4	0	2	N	N	It still doesn*t work	Time*s Arrow is both a novel idea-a man living his life in reverse, and a macabre *happy ending* to the Final Solution--ultimately leaving me confused, disappointed, and with no idea of the point Amis wanted to make.  The initial idea of backwards living--*vomiting* up food, cooling it in the oven, returning it to its original ingredients, for example, is fascinating, yet the luster of this soon fades.  The life seems to makes sense either forwards or backwards for the book*s first half--and then we reach Germany, realize who the man is.  This is where creditability falters. In *resurrecting* the Jews, Amis cannot eradicate what really happened--the tragedy cuts too deeply to be reversed, even in fiction.  Digging up and reviving dead bodies, six million dead Jewish bodies,  grips attention the way a plane wreck does, you hate yourself for gawking, but you still do.   The book suffers from its point of view, the narrator is not the German doctor himself, which might be unwriteable, but a detached *observer* who keeps a running commentary of the reversed life.  One point never cleared up is who or what *I* is.  Does it naturally live backwards, or did Time itself flip over?  Why is *I* following, (preceding?) this man?  Why choose a Holocaust doctor?  Amis provokes the reader without even trying to consider the questions.  He spins the life, ever younger, back out of the horror, back out of marraige and love, back into the beginning of childhood, and decides to end.  I wanted to see if the Observer would go all the way back to the womb--it doesn*t.   Amis has taken two major themes, the Holocaust, the idea of a backwards life, and spun them together into a work that wobbles between them.  If this is macabre comfort for genocide it fails.  If not, it plays a ghastly game.  The book does make the reader think, but think about what?	1998-02-21
US	52837815	RQUJ8BKWOK7Z6	0399143335	73986108	The Cat Who Sang for the Birds	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Still worth the visit	Ms.Braun*s latest returns us to Pickax for another visit with Koko, another bit of mayhem.  As always, the book*s real appeal is less solving the mystery, and more in watching Jim Qwilleran, his brilliant cats, his lady fair Polly Duncan, and the daily lives of the townspeople.  I always look forward to what happens to Homer Tippet, Celia, Robinson, Junior Goodwinter, and other assorted Pickaxers over the series.  Even the deceased Iris Cobb is mentioned.  The gradual development, the library gets a computer and two cats, the growth of the arts college, compel in a small-town way.  The actual Murder, of an old woman tending her small farm, propels the plot without dominating the book.  Koko himself, the brilliant cat who always provides the clue that reveals the case, is less prominent than previously, but no less important.	1998-02-21
US	52837815	R1G13RAC701OEM	0786863137	374159657	Brain Droppings	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Barbed humor, very barbed	After reading the whole thing, I wanted either to hate George Carlin*s book, or at least enjoy it more than I did.  This book suffers from what I call *Mark Twain Syndrome*; George can*t decide which way to write.  Is this supposed to be an amusing view of modern life that*s self-consciously stopping to make biting remarks  on the media, capitalism, etc.?  Or is it an angry jeremiad against American society that is also thoroughly laced with humor?  Satire IS supposed to make us think, but in this case George whipsaws between the stinging and the humorous too much; I don*t believe I am thinking the way he hoped I would.  His comments are almost too double-edged, example *Some people pay good money to go drive and watch monster trucks crushing cars.  Some people don*t have cars.*  What can I say besides *Lucky them*?   Of course the classic bits, *Baseball, football*, *A Place for My Stuff* are included along with frequent snipes about racism, consumerism and the like; the two chapters of one-liners are fun.  All the same, if George is so upset at America, why can*t he be consistant?  He heavily peppers the text with one particular word; I felt like I was hopscotching over a mile of dog messies.  Ha-ha, very funny.  Amusing, even it doesn*t have to be.	1998-01-23
US	52837815	RB543828SXJKO	0517701014	488427547	The Tetherballs of Bougainville	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Silly game, silly book.	The intial plot of Leyner*s book is of a 13-year old boy going to witness his father*s execution in the state prison.  Sounds like a somber, introspective work?--Wrong!  The youthful game of tetherball is perfect for this potpourri book--bouncing all over the place while clinging to some shred of a plot.  The execution is botched and converted to a delayed, Kafkaesque sentence; Mark*s father, in various guises, keeps repeating the cumbersome family motto.  Our hero, Mark, creates an elaborate film in his bedroom, and recieves an equally elaborate breaking-in by the beautiful lady warden.  Wierd details, like football players in pearl necklaces, abound like worms after the rain.  The narrative shifts gears more than once; the ending may or may not be happy, but I reveal nothing when I say it IS satisfying.  This is a slap-dash book, I swear the high point is when Mark gives an eloquent speech with a rubber ball stuffed in his mouth, the resultant *arrgh, aughh* makes as much sense as anything else.  I never understood the rules of tetherball as a kid and I*m not sure I understand this book either.  Enter at your own risk!	1998-01-09
US	52837815	R3D841TL8J8KNP	0380720981	631570921	The Iron Dragon's Daughter	Books	2	20	28	N	N	It was only a Dream...not really	This ultimately is a sad book, in more ways than one.  The (lost or stolen? it is never cleared up) human child Jane toils in the Steam-Dragon Plant, seeking escape and solace; she seems to find an ally in the disabled Moloch Dragon in the scrapyard, together planning to escape....and then the novel gets lost, or more properly never decides on a direction. Yes, it does defy stereotype, refusing to follow *expected* rules--just when I think I know what will happen to Jane next, something else twists the tale completely out of shape.  This should be a good thing, only here it keeps disappointing.  Jane seems to be the only human in a semi-magic world--she is not really discovered nor is her significance quite explained.  Ideas are introduced, the enchanted toys Jane is supposed to play with, the addition of Decembers into a long, cold winter, the College of Magic, the Mechanical Horse who befriends Jane, yet they ultimately pan out, or never develop.  The symbols of a needle and a dogs tail are seen frequently--but what did they mean?  The great Moloch Dragon Jane steals to escape--this is one of the high points of Swanwicks novel, the exhileration....yet it only leads to another drab end, Jane seems to spend much time in an enchanted shopping mall and school, just another *ordinary* adolescent?  I found Moloch himself less Evil than sullen, selfish--he bickers with Jane yet desires her aid.  And in the end?  The Dragon exhausts himself, reduced to a tiny fluttering thing...Jane *awakes* from possible autism...into what kind of world?  The beginning bore almost a macabre beauty, the end was just another confused young woman--had anything been really answered? Though Swanwick avoids the cliches of fantasy, he also avoids any fulfillment of it either.  Only for those who *chuckle at Kafka*.	1998-01-02
US	52837815	R2DRWI82UBPF0C	0679446699	730850906	The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Dark, beautiful, shattered	Murakami s latest, the Wind-Up Bird Chronicle, distantly echoes Douglas Adams Dirk Gentlys Holistic detective Agency, in that both novels seem to begin with the search for a lost cat, a search that blooms and expands across immense landscapes, that encompasses luminous and dangerous characters, that invokes a brooding, sullen man who threatens to completely devastate human civilization.  Yet to say Murakamis and Adams tales are alike is to claim Tchaikovskys Roccoco Variations and Shostokovichs Cello Concerto are the same because both are Russian cello music.  Murakami takes a darker path in both body and soul.  The hero, Okada, spends much time brooding in a dry well, borrowing deeper into his mind? another world?  Okada is searching, first for his cat, then his wife, all the while opposed by his ominious brother-in-law, a man apparently capable of rape without touching, of dominating souls.  Okada s only help seems to flicker from the memories of Japanese soldiers once stationed in China.   Compelling persons, the capricious May Kanasawa, the Kano sisters, Nutmeg and her silent son Cinnamon, flit through Okadas life, thier mystery never fully explained.  The long terrible shadow of Japans involvement in China, and later Russia, increasingly affects Okadas present day life, though how is never quite clear.  Murakami explains nothing clearly, much of the seeming action is almost offstage.  This can be extremely frustrating compared to more action-driven novels, yet Murakami seems wise not to dwell on it.  Yet the fact remains that this is not a book to read once, that the odd details keeping the reader returning to double-check.  What happened to the stone bird sculpture in the vacant yard?  Or the fate of the elephants in the Chinese zoo?  Where had Okadas cat been for a year?  Small things, yet I wondered if Murakami made their answers central to the larger questions.  I dont know if I enjoyed the book, more is evoked that actually revealed.  The novel had grown from the short story The Wind-Up Bird and Tuesdays Women, essentially the first chapter; the book ends on the opposite image from the short, the lost cat now found, the  mans wife lost for now. (The reverse of the Adams book, where the hero gets the girl, but alas!  the cat dies.) Not a conventionally happy ending, not really satisfying, but it WORKS.--though what Murakami meant by *wind-up bird* is never explianed at all.  Perhaps it could be anything--or nothing.  Compelling and irritating by turns, Okadas search for his cat and then his wife take him through the *souls darkness* of previous novels.  Murakami writes in the dark, yet knows where he is going.	1997-12-15
US	52837815	R3S0WAR4R7LOMV	0679454446	612130498	Lucky You	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Predictable as chocolate-chip cookies	First off, Lucky You is basically a fun read, the old what-would-you-do-with-ten-million-dollars dream.  Hiaasen still pulls off the fun and crackle of offbeat characters scrouging around in southern Florida; his enviormental message as strong as ever.  The story is gripping enough to keep going without being unduly demanding.     This, unfortunately, is also the novels major flaw.  One realizes that you know where you are going:  that the male and female protagonists will end up together; that the ranch will be saved; that Black Bart and Sidekick will recieve thier just comeupance.  Hiaasens strength lies in the journey getting you there.       That was the main problem, I found the subplot of religious symbols, the secondary characters such as the reporters neurotic wife or the editor finding peace in a pond of baby turtles more intriguing than the search for the missing ticket.  Hiaasen has slid into a common trap, his villians are vicious bastards but starting to be more interesting than the heroes.  The presence of one-time Governor Skink is sadly missed.      I compare this latest book to yet another a batch of perfectly baked tollhouse chocolate chip cookies--Delicious, but how many ways can you make them and still keep everyones interest?  Next time lets add some anchovies!	1997-12-10
US	52837815	RA8LX7YKE5XA1	0671742515	238243512	The Long Dark Tea-Time of the Soul	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Yes and Yes!	Actually an improvement over the first Dirk Gently, the stakes not being so high improves the telling of the tale.  Whereas the Hitchhiker ultimately disappointed in the last book, Dirk seems to improve and increase.  Why Douglas has neglected him since then I wish I knew!  There is an odd disjointed beauty in the overall structure, details such as the mental ward Dirk visits, the mystery of Harold Bell, the truck driver followed by a lovesick rain cloud stick in the mind.  I found the tape version cleared up some of the more British details (the eagle with RAF marks on its wings, for example) without distracting from the whole.  The only writer who seems to whet my appetite for more Adams isthe Japanese Haruki Murakami, who may have drunk from the same spring as Adams.  But its not the same!   Will Dirk ever solve the mystery of what happened to Fenchurch, from Hitchhikers?   Mrsmishima	1997-12-08
US	52837815	R372S9A7MJO1K8	1558005684	441859006	Mostly Harmless	Books	1	3	5	N	N	Death of the Whale sums up the book, series	I have to agree with those who were let down, even shocked, at Douglas Adams almost contrived? ending to the Hitchhiker series.  Was he simply getting sick of the inevitable questions Whenyagonnawriteanutherbook?whenyagonna writemoreaboutmarvinfordzaphodetc?  I found the introduction of Arthurs daughter Random to be nothing more than a plot device, the glimpse of Elvis a poor joke; while the connection of the Hitchhiker Bird and the Vogons obscure and frustrating, only Arthur Dent had any spirit worth pursuing.  I only hope Fenchurch ended up in the arms of Dirk Gently from the other (woefully neglected now) series.  I know D.Adams has shifted the focus of his writing from gleeful chaos to Zen-inspired focused chaos, but he changes gears so abruptly here its painful.Mrsmishima<br /> My one-line title refers to the the surprised Sperm Whale in the first book, created by the infinite Improbability Drive during the attack over the desert planet, who is coming to terms with being himself, (herself?)  as a whale, before coming to terms over not being a whale-or alive-anymore.  D.Adams claimed he recieved so much mail from angry readers over what was at best a 2pg. apperance of a brief but sympathetic creature.  Its in effect the same thing as the ending of Yukio Mishimas Sea of Fertility tetralogy, which ends with the aged protagonist wondering if the last 80 years of his life have been but a dream.  Tears of the Adams whale indeed	1997-12-08
