US	52836792	R3QIO6H5O9N2DK	075510885X	883309143	Duplicate Death	Books	2	14	24	N	Y	Ridiculous Death	Let's get one thing straight - if you're reading for the mystery, don't bother with this one.  Duplicate Death's murders are easy to solve but not even remotely interesting.  Don't bother if you're hoping for the fun characters of Heyer's earlier books, either.  If you're looking for unintentional humor, though, this book might be worth a look.<br />In Duplicate Death, a man with an unsavory past is strangled during a duplicate bridge party; his hostess that night is killed in the same way a few days later.  Those who have read They Found Him Dead might enjoy a brief skim through this book, as it checks in briefly with Jim and Patricia Kane, twelve years into their marriage; the book also features a grown-up Timothy Harte, whose fiancee is a suspect in the case.  <br />This is one of Heyer's later books and one of her worst.  While her mysteries were never masterworks, for most of her career she produced good light English mystery. By the time of Duplicate Death, though, she lost most of the style that had distinguished her earlier books.  And her attempts to incoporate into her works the social, political, and cultural changes of post-WWII England drained her stories of energy and fun while failing to give them any depth or realism. <br />Heyer's attempts at modernity actually give rise to some unintentional humor.  She tries, for example, to incorporate a gay man into the plot, and the bigotry displayed as a result manages to transcend offensiveness to become ludicrous.  We can either cringe or remember the era when Hemingway laments that he's got to cope with a gay man as a suspect.  We can sigh in exasperation or roll our eyes at the author's attempt to convey that man's sexual preferences by having him alternate fits of tears with fits of temper.  But we can only laugh when Heyer explains, with complete seriousness, that male homosexuality is caused by childhood asthma.  And that's just one example.  There's prejudice of every stripe on display here, and whileit is going to make most modern readers wince, it's so overdone and so ridiculous that those readers are likely to be amused rather than angry.<br />Duplicate Death is Heyer's second-worst book and is worth reading only for the unintentional hilarity evoked by the author's unwitting exposure of her strange opinions.  Those who seek competent, humorous mysteries would do well to try her earlier books, like A Blunt Instrument or Death in the Stocks.  In general, most readers should skip this one.	2004-01-14
US	52836792	ROJ235TXUKW4H	0767912365	574332407	Ciao, America!: An Italian Discovers the U.S.	Books	4	56	60	N	N	America from the outside	Ciao, America! is fun, but that's not why Americans should read it.  For us, the real fascination of Severgnini's book is the perspective it provides, one English-speaking travel readers seldom get.  Instead of finding out what another country looks like to an American, Brit, or Australian, we get to find out what America looks like to an Italian.  It's a surprising experience, and I, at least, found myself filled with both sympathy and envy for the Europeans who have been reading outsider perspectives for decades.<br />Which isn't to say this book is always easy to get.  Lots of passages leave Americans saying \\"As opposed to what?\\"  Will everyone who reads this book understand why Severgnini lists the cost of things like hooking up his telephone and getting a social security card?  And I admit to being totally mystified about the reasons Severgnini's mattress-buying experience was so traumatic.  He went to a mattress store, inspected his options, picked one (without thinking to measure it first, unfortunately), and bought it.  This seems natural to me.  How do they buy mattresses in Italy?  This book should have a second writer for the American edition - someone who can explain what other options there are.<br />The Italian edition should have a second writer, too - one to explain where Severgnini went wrong.  Every American reader of the book will cringe extravagantly when the author pays sticker price for an automobile - there should be a footnote in the book explaining why you don't do that.  The Italian edition also needs to explain why you never rent a house when the ad says \\"grace and charm.\\"  All Americans know that \\"grace,\\" in real estate terms, means \\"tiny, inconvenient rooms where no furniture will ever fit\\" and that \\"charm\\" means \\"kitchen and bathroom built in an unfortunate era for appliances and décor - say, 1954 or 1976 - and never remodeled since.\\"  Apparently foreigners don't know this.  Someone should tell them.  Before they get here, or at any rate before they sign the lease.<br />Severgnini also misses a few points.  He notes the widespread existence of tributes to Spam - t-shirts, hats, holiday notecards - but takes it at face value.  He doesn't realize we don't actually like the stuff, or eat it; we buy the t-shirts because they're campy and funny, not because to express undying devotion.  He claims that people in America drive 55, and I'm willing to entertain the notion that in Washington maybe they do, but to me that sounds like a tourist opportunity right there: go to Washington and see rustic natives drive 55!    <br />But even when it's wrong, Ciao is fascinating, sometimes just for the way it's wrong.  Americans rarely get an external review of our country, and when we do, it's hopelessly biased.  Severgnini's approach to American culture is just like any ex-pat's, anywhere in the world - he has that same mixture of appreciation, frustration, and confusion that makes living-abroad memoirs so appealing.  And for those Americans who are a bit sensitive to criticism, don't worry.  Severgnini may not understand us, or like everything about us, but he certainly appreciates us. <br />Read this book.  Savor it.  It's fun, funny, and surprisingly interesting.  And every American should, at least once, have the experience of hearing Washington, D.C. described as friendly.	2003-07-31
US	52836792	R3TV2KTKSE8PSQ	0060523182	655483804	The Merlin Conspiracy	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	One of the best books from Jones in a long time	While not quite up to the level of her classic children's works - Archer's Goon or Witch Week - The Merlin Conspiracy is definitely one of the best, and most characteristic, books she's written in a long time. <br />Plot Summary<br />Roddy's world is in trouble; only she and her friend Grundo know there's a conspiracy to unseat her King, and no one will listen to them.  Nick, meanwhile, is having his own problems.  His attempts to learn magic aren't working, he misses the adventures he used to have, and apparently someone wants him dead.  But when Roddy, Nick, and Grundo unite, they'll be able to solve the problems of several different worlds, and their own into the bargain.<br />Commentary<br />This is a children's novel, but it's sort of a sequel to Jones's adult novel Deep Secret.  This causes a few complications.  The adult main characters from Deep Secret (Maree and Rupert) don't appear in Merlin; Nick Mallory has a starring role without ever mentioning his cousin or friend.  Also, there's some redundancy in explanations.  But a fan of Deep Secret will still enjoy Merlin Conspiracy.  And Merlin Conspiracy can stand alone, although readers of the first book will be far more familiar with the world and the concepts in it.   <br />This book resembles Deep Secret in narration.  Varying narrators tell the story in first person, sometimes offering different viewpoints on the same events but sometimes relating entirely different plot threads.  However, this isn't complicated enough to pose serious problems for any kid old enough to read the book in the first place.  <br />And this book is well worth reading.  The plot is quite good, an unusually well-done mystery for children.  The world is infinitely more appealing and realistic than, for example, the one from Dark Lord of Derkholm.  And Jones does something she hasn't done in a kid's book since her heyday - she provides characters with real flaws as well as real strengths.  The multiple-narrator technique works wellhere, giving the reader different takes on each main character.  <br />All in all, this is an excellent book for children or adults.  Fans of Jones's previous work will almost certainly enjoy Merlin Conspiracy.  It isn't as funny or as enchanting as her best books, but it is one that will definitely stand the test of time.	2003-07-19
US	52836792	R1UIYIAUA3OPVR	0471411027	530942462	The Appetizer Atlas: A World of Small Bites	Books	2	25	40	N	N	Disappointingly limited	The Appetizer Atlas claims to take the chef on a world tour through hors d'oeuvres.  It also claims to be useful for most professional chefs, caterers, and advanced home cooks.  Neither of these claims is entirely true.<br />This cookbook will only really be useful if you want to serve a lot of meat.  Admittedly, there are a few recipes in the book that aren't meaty, but 85 - 100% of the recipes from each region (i.e., Italy, North Africa, Central Europe) will contain *lots* of meat.  And you won't just need the more traditional meats - you'll also need access to a full range of game and lots of fresh seafood to make good use of this book.  While this is interesting, it isn't very practical in this time of fat-watching and calorie-counting, not to mention vegetarianism.    <br />Also, this isn't exactly a thorough exploration of the world's appetizers.  Most regions have 7 recipes.  That means roughly 7 recipes from all of China, from all of Mexico, from all of Eastern Europe.  This gets truly ridiculous in the &quot;Indian Subcontinent&quot; chapter, which claims to cover India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Burma, Sri Lanka, Tibet, Bhutan, and Nepal.  That's eight countries in seven recipes!  It's no surprise that the book barely scratches the surface of anywhere outside of North America, which is divided up by into eight different subregions, each with its own set of recipes.  The contrast between the treatments given to North America and the rest of the world only serves to heighten the skimpiness of most of the chapters.<br />This book may be of use to the professional chef or caterer looking for more showy, meat-intensive appetizers with a vaguely exotic flavor.  Home chefs will be dismayed to discover chiefly recipes they can expect many of their guests to refuse to eat.  And anyone looking for a real survey of the world's starters will be distressed by the limited content and depth of this book.	2003-07-12
US	52836792	R14NW4W8KE33VN	0380727609	962878942	Italian Education	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A remarkable look at Italy	I finished this book, like Parks' first book on Italy (Italian Neighbors), with conflicting emotions.  On the one hand, Parks writes well, fluidly, comfortably.  His subjects are well-handled and fascinating, and he has mastered that technique of finding universal truths in personal stories.  And yet...his non-fiction books always have a few characteristics that grate, things that stick in my mind and my craw even after I've finished a book I ought to have loved.<br />For Italian Education, the biggest problem for me was the first two chapters, which are Parks at his worst: smug, self-obsessed, whiny.  As just a single example, in the second chapter he tries to justify writing not one but two books about Italy - as though this needs a justification.  Part of his justification is the unique way he's found of doing it, concentrating on local people, local issues, things he knows intimately.  He's in love with his cleverness at inventing this approach, apparently unaware that he isn't the first writer, or the first travel writer (or even in the first fifty) to use it.  <br />That tone, which disappears as he delves into stories about his family, about living in Italy, left me wanting to find flaws in the book, and I did find a few more.  Parks ended it in a strange place, with his wife out of the picture for many chapters and a new baby not yet born - in a book about children, the third one never makes an appearance?  And I felt the title was a little less than apt - it isn't about education, it's about children growing up Italian and taking their father with them, at least part way.  Italian Children would be much nearer the mark.  <br />But these are tiny quibbles.  And the fact that I found so few after those first two chapters - despite almost *wanting* to dislike the book - should tell you about its quality, its insight.  Parks may be annoying at times but he can write, and in Italian Education he's found a strictly local topic with worldwide appeal.  An importantmeasure of any society is how it treats its children, and so this book is a fascinating study of Italy through a less than common lens.  <br />If you're interested in Italy or parenthood or travel at all, buy this book.  Read this book.  Even if you don't want to like it, you will.	2003-07-11
US	52836792	R3U41Q673TIMXK	0312281560	698206333	The Grand Tour: The European Adventure of a Continental Drifter	Books	4	7	9	N	N	A Slow Start but a Great Tour	Grand Tour is an unusual work for Tim Moore - in addition to his usual generous helpings of laughter, he also serves the reader a fair amount of information and some poignancy.  <br />I think the alterations in Moore's usual style arise from his subject, Thomas Coryate, whose 1608 trip through the Continent inaugurated the British tradition of the grand tour (Coryate also introduced the fork, the umbrella, and the travel narrative to his native land).  Coryate was a serious and pompous traveler who couldn't resist copying down every engraving and measuring every column he encountered.  Moore responds by doing some actual research and interrupting his usual hysterical rants with actual facts.<br />Unfortunately, Moore hasn't quite mastered seamless blending of information and narrative, and as a result this book is a bit slower and denser than his other two books.  And although Moore manages to evoke quite a bit of sympathy and sadness for Coryate, he never seems totally comfortable  with more serious writing.  The result is a somewhat uneven book that takes a while to get moving.<br />But Moore finally hits his stride while writing about Venice, and Grand Tour takes off.  The last half of the book is laugh-out-loud funny, a marvelously fun romp that makes the whole book worth reading.  And Moore throws in a few unusual extras on top of the laughs; he conveys a clear picture of the Europe of 1608 as well as the Europe of today, and an even clearer picture of Thomas Coryate.  Though much of the book had me rolling with laughter, I finished with a lump in my throat for the man Moore calls &quot;poor old Tom.&quot;<br />All in all, Grand Tour is well worth buying.  However, if you haven't read any Tim Moore, this book probably isn't the best place to start - try Frost on My Moustache or French Revolutions first.	2003-07-07
US	52836792	R351JDE3GZXXB7	0441002846	232264731	The Engines of God	Books	3	3	10	N	N	Retro SF	The Engines of God is a typical golden-age hard SF novel - that just happens to have been written in 1994.  And although the book displays both the strengths and weaknesses of SF novels, it has some peculiarities and weaknesses all its own.  It may be retro SF, but it isn't a classic.<br />Reading Engines, I kept checking the copyright date.  I'd happen upon some strange anachronism - people in 2200 still driving cars, for example, or the clunky, non-networked computers widely featured in 1970s SF - and think, wait, this must be a reprint.  Flip to the copyright.  No, it still says 1994.  Back to the book, where I can't help but notice that people might have personal energy shields allowing them to walk naked in space, but back on Earth they're still using the internal combustion engine and reading all the same newspapers we have today.  McDevitt does make some predictions of future technology and future changes in his book, but, just like in traditional hard SF, the underlying culture is unchanged.  The result is a future that's unconvincing.<br />But that wouldn't be a problem - after all, traditional SF was fantastic despite its limitations - if the core puzzle of the book was good enough.  Unfortunately, it isn't.  And I found that frustrating.  It's amazingly easy to solve the archeological mystery at the heart of the book; the average reader will figure it all out before the midpoint, and will spend the rest of the novel waiting for the big surprise that doesn't come.  Worst of all, the \\"surprise\\" revelation at the ending is stunningly silly; I closed the book thinking \\"How could a race that advanced never have heard of *domes*?\\"  <br />However, Engines does have strengths.  It's fast-paced, with lots of action; really, it's more thriller than pure SF.  It's light, easy to read, zippy - a beach kind of book.  And on that level, it works.  Just don't come to this novel expecting anything more.<br />So this isn't the book to read if you're looking for solid predictions or a dazzling future world.  It's also not the book for you if you're hoping for a traditional SF puzzle.  But if you want solid escapist fiction, action-packed and non-threatening, you'll love Engines of God.	2003-07-01
US	52836792	R2V8LDHRYMHWUE	0312270151	31844328	Frost on my Moustache: The Arctic Exploits of a Lord and a Loafer	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Whinging and Cringing After Dufferin	It says everything about this book, really, that the title comes from an intensely colloquial joke that is too obscene to repeat here.  Frost on My Moustache is a travel humor book that focuses far more on humor and cursing than it does on the travel.  But what it lacks in actual information it more than makes up for in laughter - the kind of oh-god-just-let-me-take-another-breath laughter that can lead to hospitalization, insanity, and inexplicable joy.  However, Moore - and his book - aren't for everyone.    <br />Moore is very colloquially British - he uses lots of pop culture references that will not be obvious to most Americans (or Europeans or Australians or...).  He's also very much like a certain kind of aging college student: perpetually intoxicated, foul-mouthed, inclined to rant and whine.  But despite it all, he's lots of fun, and while you might not like him, you'll love reading about his travels.<br />The word that most often gets used in Tim Moore book reviews is &quot;Bryson.&quot;  The comparisons between Tim Moore and Bill Bryson are apparently unavoidable.  And, to a certain extent, they hold true: both writers are very funny, both are extremely tightfisted, both spend an awful lot of time complaining.  But Moore is not Bryson.  At most, he could be described as an embryo Bryson - he hasn't yet learned the secrets of a wide appeal, a cultivated air, or a dignified approach to life.  Moore curses, he wails, he throws regular temper tantrums, he's sulky and lazy and fixated.  And he eats a lot of hot dogs.  Don't expect thoughtful cultural exposition, insightful observations, or descriptions of the local cuisine from him.  <br />But I promise you: if you pick up Frost on My Moustache, you will experience frequent bouts of all-out hysteria.  This book is well worth buying and reading, not once, but again and again.	2003-06-19
US	52836792	R2QGG3E2QFI1DR	0380708213	223407615	The Forever War	Books	2	34	46	N	N	Nice idea.  Shame about the execution.	One of the ideas behind The Forever War must've been amazing, even brilliant, thirty years ago: a war that lasts for thousands of years because of relativity.  The other idea, that war is hell, is not exactly original.  But the ideas make an interesting combination, and together they could've made a fantastic book.<br />Except.  The author seems to have only a glancing familiarity with things like human nature.  One perfect example is the way feminism works in the book.  Oh, the women are in the army - they fight on the line and all that.  But they're *also* expected to act as camp followers!  When they go to a station inhabited mostly by men, they are obliged, by law and military rule, to have sex with those men for as long as the men wish it.  That's every lonely 15-year-old boy's dream, maybe, but it wouldn't work in reality. Women don't respond well to rape, and highly trained, heavily armed women will eventually get tired of being unpaid, legally coerced prostitutes; the social order will rebalance.  And let's not forget the strange relationship between Marygay and Mandella. It's hard to believe they're in love at all, because the author doesn't seem to have a clue how to write a convincing love affair, so it's hard to get worked up about their future together.<br />Except, again.  The author, in his understandable bitterness about the Vietnam war, takes things a bit too far to demonstrate that war is hell.  Why would any army rigorously test hundreds of thousands of people, then forcibly conscript the smartest and most educated so that they could *fight as grunts, in the frontline infantry*?  Never mind that 150+ IQ people are exactly the sort you don't want in an army, since they aren't going to take orders any too well, but are the sort you want working on technological advances back home.  Why go through all that to recruit for a group of people that will sustain 34% casualties every time they encounter the enemy, whether they're smart or not?  And why would any army kill so many of its \\"elite\\" conscripted grunts in training?  Most armies can find a way to train soldiers that doesn't, itself, inflict a 20% casualty rate.<br />Except, a third time.  The future societies, which Mandella visits irregularly during his tour of duty, have that sad, silly tone that lots of future-predicting SF from the '70s has.   It's hard to take seriously, not just because the predictions are off base; it's the way they're off base.  Tobacco is illegal because it takes land needed to grow food, but marijuana is distributed free by many governments?  The UN runs the major world fighting force and most of the rest of the world, too?  Um.<br />Reading this book left me switching between annoyance, amusement, and regret, but by the end, regret predominated.  It was a nice idea, and maybe it could've been a classic.  As it stands, though, The Forever War is an old novel, best forgotten.  Read something else; don't bother starting this War.	2003-05-20
US	52836792	R21D58IVR52BA	189206524X	57213660	Gumshoe Gorilla	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Paging an editor...any editor	Keith Hartman's next novel should feature a really bad copy editor who is horribly killed because he simply couldn't recognize an error, even to save his skin.  It would be partial revenge for the work - or lack of work - done on Gumshoe Gorilla.  Almost every page contains an error, and almost every error in the grammar book is made more than once.  Capitalization, font, spelling, and every element of punctuation known to the English language (especially apostrophes) - each and every one gets horribly mangled in this novel.  So, if you can read English reasonably well, don't expect to be able to read this book without cringing and moaning in pain.<br />Despite that, though, it's a fairly good book - it'd be worth four stars without the editing problem.  The characters are still fun, the writing is still funny (even if it would make Strunk and White foam at the mouth), and Hartman still has a deft hand with social satire.  Unfortunately, the plot isn't quite as intelligent as The Gumshoe, the Witch, and the Virtual Corpse's was - it's too easy to put the pieces together.  Readers who are looking for a puzzle to solve will be finished well before the book is over.  <br />But readers looking for a light, enjoyable book with lots of humor will really like Gumshoe Gorilla.  They'd just better bring their red pens with them.	2003-04-27
US	52836792	R1B0JB1H9WOKC4	0312875894	478104388	Point of Dreams	Books	3	4	7	N	N	A weak little sister to Point of Hopes	Point of Dreams is the plain little sister of the delightful fantasy/mystery Point of Hopes.  Though the books share background, genre, and main characters, Dreams just doesn't shine the way Hopes did.<br />The plot of Dreams is fairly weak.  It's hard to write SF/mystery that obeys all the rules of traditional mysteries, and though Barnett and Scott succeeded in Hopes, they fail here - the mystery is remarkably easy to solve and is transparently clear by the book's midpoint.  <br />Also, the setting, which was easily the best part of Hopes, is in Dreams just a backdrop for a (relatively) normal theater production.  Hopes established a fascinating world.  Dreams inhabits a tiny portion of it.<br />The real problem, though, is the further development of the main characters.  At the start of Dreams, Rathe and Eslingen are living together, having gone from unexpressed mutual interest to an ongoing, committed relationship between books.  Scott and Barnett, in choosing not to show the early stages of the romance, are making an unusual, daring, and ultimately unsuccessful choice.  They can't, or won't, write the relationship convincingly without the early bits.  (I love Melissa Scott's writing, and I honestly believe she *could* do this right, but that only makes this book's failure worse.)<br />In Dreams, it's hard to believe that Rathe and Eslingen actually love each other.  In the brief interludes they spend together, they show very little affection, let alone romantic love.  The strongest emotion they seem to feel is mutual jealousy; that's not exactly proof of true love.  And it doesn't help that the one passionate sequence in the book is between Rathe and an ex-lover.  The intensity of that bit just underscores the absence of any such feeling between our heroes.  <br />Despite the problems, though, the book is still a good one. Fantasy/mysteries are rare, as I said, and the book would be worth reading for that alone.  Add in the marvelous setting and the light, funwriting, and Point of Dreams becomes more than worth the purchase price.  I just hope that the third book in the series reveals more kinship with Hopes than with Dreams.	2003-04-24
US	52836792	R2SZ4HTDWOMNQD	0375507663	957760741	Hold the Enlightenment: More Travel, Less Bliss	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Cahill.  Enough Said.	This book is standard Tim Cahill - and, if you read travel or adventure writing at all, you know that standard Cahill is pretty darn wonderful.  Hold the Enlightment is one of Cahill's better books to date - it doesn't quite match Jaguars Ripped My Flesh, but it's substantially better than, for example, Pass the Butterworms; it's Cahill's first collection since Jaguars that doesn't have a scattershot feel to it.<br />Hold the Enlightenment does have a few weaknesses.  First, it seems quite a bit shorter than his previous collections - a straight pagination comparison is, of course, pointless, but this book certainly seems shorter.  Also, a few of the articles are reprints (and a few more look like reprints, but are actually revisits - e.g., he has another look at Bali and the entranced duck); by reprints, I mean that they've appeared in another collection of his.  In a book that is already slightly short on content, it seems doubly unfair to include articles that have appeared in other books.  However, there's still plenty in this book that's original, and plenty to interest any reader.<br />But there's a more pernicious problem in Hold the Enlightenment.  As I said, the essays here are all typical Cahill.  This has a down side - it seems, in places, that Cahill  is becoming a sort of caricature of himself; his style is now a distillation of the most popular pieces of Cahill past.  This is quite noticeable in Hold the Enlightenment.  His other collections all feature several atypical articles - lengthy, serious pieces, for example.  This one does not.  Those who treasure Cahill solely for his humor will be delighted by this, of course, but those who enjoy his writing in all forms will miss the deeper pieces.    <br />Still, this book is well worth the purchase price for fans of Cahill, or for lovers of travel and adventure writing in general. If you've never read a book or article by Tim Cahill, you could certainly start here - and if you've read everything else Cahill's written, you'll definitely want this one, too.	2002-12-20
US	52836792	R13G541YEYWAA9	0743435583	871816105	Miles Errant (Miles Vorkosigan Adventures)	Books	3	219	240	N	N	This is NOT a new book; it's a compilation	This is an anthology - one of the series of Vorkosigan anthologies Baen is releasing.  It contains Borders of Infinity (the short story), Brothers in Arms, and Mirror Dance.  Don't buy this thinking it's a new book!	2002-08-22
US	52836792	R3A4JQR04Y6V6M	1878067982	67171671	Femme d'Adventure: Tales from a Wild Life (Adventura Books)	Books	2	9	12	N	N	Adventure for Girls	I resented the hell out of this book, and about midway through I realized why.  It's not really adventure writing - it's adventure writing *for girls*.  Most of these articles would only qualify as fluff or travel pieces, or maybe reflective essays, if they'd been written by men.  Because the author is a woman - well, because she's a woman, a trip to Venice qualifies as adventure.  A drive in Ireland qualifies as adventure.  Fishing in Canada qualifies as adventure.  In other words, this is an adventure travel book that only features travel - and fear.<br />Fear is a necessary component of any adventure article or book, but fear shouldn't own the author and the story; in Femme D'Adventure, it does.  Even the introduction, by Lorian Hemingway, talks about how much women have to fear these days, and surely we do, but I *live* the mundane terrors of a woman's daily life - I don't need to read about them in an adventure travel book.  From adventure writing, I expect exceptional fear, life-affirming fear, thrilling fear, and this book is sorely lacking in that department.  I mean, I was awfully glad to read that the author got over her fear of flying (and, in another article, her fear of rafting).  But if I'd wanted to read that kind of story, I'd have bought a self-help book.  In an adventure story, I want fear induced not by boarding an airplane but by jumping out of one.<br />Another irritating aspect of this &quot;adventure for girls&quot; writing is the language.  It's cute to the point of inducing nausea.  &quot;If the Italian Renaissance painters had been dentists, their dentures would have looked like Venice,&quot; the author informs us.  Fine.  What an adorable sentence that is.  Of course, it's also meaningless.  And I can't call to mind any other adventure writer OR travel writer who relies so heavily on alliteration.  You can only read phrases like &quot;the wicked Wicklow wind,&quot; something she repeats more than once in her article on Ireland, so many times before you start reaching for something a little less cute.<br />Maybe I'd have liked this book a little more if it hadn't been so clearly marketed as adventure writing, right down to the word &quot;adventure&quot; in the title.  And then again, considering the language, maybe not.  Either way, though, this book mostly serves not to show us, as women, how far we've come, but rather how far we still have to go.	2002-06-12
US	52836792	R23JSQLMZHK6PY	0439071666	876287338	Cinderella: The Dog And Her Little Glass Slipper	Books	2	3	7	N	N	A Flat Re-telling of the Old, Old Story	The story of Cinderella has been enchanting children for centuries.  We've seen hundreds of modified versions of it over the years - from the self-sufficient Cinder Edna to the many alternate-culture Cinderellas to Cinderlads to animal Cinderellas - but Diane Goode's Cinderella isn't a new twist on the old story.  It *is* the old story (but the Disney version rather than the Brothers Grimm).  The only thing that's different is the illustrations, and those aren't different enough to make the book worth reading. <br />If the book was lovely enough, if the illustrations were truly magical, then the utterly familiar story wouldn't matter.  These pictures don't make that grade, though.  They're rather standard picture-book illustrations, with one unusual element: all the characters are bipedal, clothes-wearing dogs.  The effect is rather peculiar - they look too human to be recognizably canine, and they look too canine to be recognizably human - and stilted; the dogs look out of proportion and somehow wrong moving around on their hind legs and holding things in their front paws.  <br />It's hard to imagine an audience for this book, with its familiar story and its unappealing illustrations.  Most children would probably prefer to read the original Cinderella or one of the more imaginative alternates.  In fact, most kids would probably rather just hear Mom or Dad tell the story without any book or pictures if this book was their other option.  All in all, Diane Goode's Cinderella is neither good nor bad; it's simply and completely forgettable.	2001-12-21
US	52836792	R3KH42JXBW79LN	0929999037	380806428	Letters from the Closet	Books	1	2	5	N	N	Stereotyped and embarrassing	It's rare that a book is published without any redeeming features whatsoever, but Letters from the Closet is that book.  The writing is bad, the characters are one-dimensional, the plot is cliched and painful, and even the editing is bad.  Worst of all, Letters from the Closet promulgates stereotypes and misinformation.  <br />Letters from the Closet consists of letters, postcards, journal entries, and memos relating to the life and times of Adam and Katie.  Adam and Katie are a couple; Adam leaves Katie; Adam becomes a priest; Katies comes out as a lesbian; Adam comes out as a gay man; the book ends, mercifully, but on a truly sappy note.  It should surprise no one that, in the course of the book, Adam struggles with his faith, or that he gets into trouble for teaching about homosexuality to his theology class, or that he takes a moral stand and is ousted from his job, or that one of his theology students proves to be gay.  Every new page presents a new cliche or a new stereotype.  <br />If these cliches just made the book dull and painful to read, I wouldn't consider it an evil book.  But cliches applied in this way do real harm because they trivialize the gay community and they trivialize both the difficulties and the rewards of our lives.  If all homophobes were idiots (as the authors wittily imply by filling the letter from the Token Homophobes with spelling, grammatical, and content errors and then marking up the page like it was a homework assignment), they would not be so dangerous.  If all gays and lesbians were so deeply caring, thoughtful, and agonizingly tormented, it would be perfectly acceptable to treat us all as a single entity.  Letters from the Closet presents an utterly one-dimensional view of gays and lesbians, their families and employers, their allies and foes, and in so doing does us all a great disservice.  <br />Please, if you want to read an entertaining book of letters, read Griffin and Sabine by Nick Bantock.  If you want to learn about the gay and lesbian community, read Auden or Duffy or Isherwood or White or Rich or almost anyone other than these authors. I'm especially horrified to see that people are using this as a text in human sexuality classes; teachers, I beg you - let the gays and lesbians of this world speak through intelligent, literate, and *truthful* works, not this trite and insulting book.	2001-11-15
US	52836792	RJCDCORKJGFB1	0812580397	606838227	Mars Underground	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Good, old-fashioned SF/Mystery	Mars Underground is an old-fashioned SF book - but that's a good thing, in most ways.  The author is a scientist first and a writer second, but he still knows how to write.  The story is plausible and fits into the known facts.  The plotting is tight and fast.  And, unfortunately, the book has a rather poorly done and unnecessary love subplot - the only real weakness in an otherwise fun read.<br />It's refreshing to see a book like this.  People writing SF now mostly lack either the background to make the story scientifically believeable or the writing ability that makes it readable; Hartmann has both.  His Mars is solid and realistic, his science is smooth and polished, and his tale is fun to read because it's well-written.  Mars Underground is a science fiction/mystery novel, one of the hardest kinds to do (according to Niven and Asimov, who both should know) and do well.  Hartmann does an excellent job.  The plot, which concerns the mysterious disappearance of a grand old man of Mars (not, I'm happy to report, an obvious simulacrum/ideal of Hartmann himself) and an administrator's attempt to understand the disappearance - and then the conspiracy behind it - is compelling, and the book is light and fun as a result.<br />The only real problem with the novel (and those who read a lot of SF will be only too used to this) is the painful love triangle subplot.  Florence King said that love scenes don't belong in certain kinds of novels; she also said that such &quot;scabrous growths&quot; can be lifted almost seamlessly from the story, taking nothing important away from it.  That's definitely true with the Annie/Philippe/Carter triangle.  The book slows down unbearably while those three are working through their pointless machinations.  The only really worthwhile feature of this subplot is that it contains possibly the silliest explanation I've ever heard for an open marriage: &quot;You can't shut yourself off from the other half of the professionals in the world, theother sex.&quot;  <br />Fortunately, the romance angle takes up only a few pages and thus wastes only a few minutes of the reader's time.  The rest of the book is solid.  Mars Underground is not exactly a classic and ground-breaking work of SF, but it is entertaining and plausible and interesting.  True SF fans will enjoy this book, and find it well worth buying (new, but in paperback).	2001-11-06
US	52836792	R3DORLGERKLA5Z	0312868235	455052680	The Silk Code	Books	2	9	11	N	N	I just know there's a story in here somewhere!	Paul Levinson is clearly a man of ideas, and in The Silk Code, he spits them out rapid-fire - so rapid-fire, in fact, that he skips right over the essential crafts of writing, plotting, and character building.  The Silk Code is a loosely-connected assortment of 'wouldn't it be cool if...?' fantasies bound together by a few weak threads.  <br />In The Silk Code, the author displays a real lack of writing skill - not precisely what I expected from an author who, according to the book's jacket, is the President of the Science Fiction Writers of America, but true nonetheless.  Levinson simply doesn't seem to know the first thing about telling a story.  He never reveals something when he can baldly state it instead.  He runs through long sequences of expository dialog - you know, the kind of thing where two characters stand around telling each other things they both must already know, simply because the author can't think of any other way of letting the reader know, too.  He also has no real grasp of pacing - Silk Code's narrative races at hyperspeed through major events, never slowing even enough for a scene to start or finish; also, Levinson includes no internal indications of timing.  At one point, the narrative jumps forward by a year and the reader doesn't know it for about 25 pages.  These irritating flaws all come from sheer weak writing - something, incidentally, a good writers' group could have fixed. <br />The plot of the book is also weak.  Levinson needs to realize that a random string of events just cannot substitute for a well-constructed plot.  The major characters in The Silk Code dash all over the planet, using almost every form of locomotion available to man, often for no reason whatsoever.  The minor characters don't travel because they die too fast. The book adheres to a rigid pattern: a minor character is introduced, imparts a small fragment of knowledge, and then, within a page or two, is killed.  The Silk Code has a higher body count than most detective *series*.  The gaps between murders and journeys - what few there are - are filled by betrayals and suspicions.  But all this hyperkinetic action is just random noise, because it follows no logical progression and often contributes nothing to the story at all.  <br />As for character development, there's simply none of it, possibly because the few surviving characters are far too busy running in circles to have time to develop.  Whatever the reason, though, Levinson has produced some of the most hastily rendered stick figures in SF history - which fans of the genre will know is a real, albeit undesireable, accomplishment.  <br />In short, The Silk Code is painful to read and does not reward the stoically determined or masochistic reader.  So why didn't I give the book a single star?  Well, despite all its flaws, I still firmly believe that there's the basis for a decent novel buried somewhere in The Silk Code.  This faith gives me hope - not for this book, which would defeat the most confirmed optimist, but for the future output of the author.  Perhaps in a few years he'll have learned how to turn his good ideas into good books.  So give The Silk Code a miss - and maybe the next Levinson, too.  Give him some time to mature as an author, and then - but only then - give him a try.	2001-10-30
US	52836792	R2RZXD2SFUMT0L	9625931546	168418582	Strange Foods: Bush Meat, Bats, and Butterflies: An Epicurean Adventure Around the World	Books	3	12	15	N	N	Have a meal on the wild side...	Strange Foods is a fascinating investigation of foods that are unpalatable to westerners.  It'd be a real treasure, but it is beset by both factual and writing errors.  <br />One caveat: this is NOT a book for the squeamish - not only does Hopkins discuss, in great detail, the consumption of things like gorillas, insects, and endangered species, but Michael Freeman provides full-color, often full-page photos of nearly every food item in the book.  If the text doesn't turn your stomach, at least a few of the pictures will.  <br />The errors will also turn some stomachs, mostly those belonging to writers and scientists.  The book is full of non-sentences and in some places seems entirely unedited; I found an average of four errors on each page, and I wasn't reading for mistakes.  Hopkins' convoluted sentence construction and affinity for fragments makes for truly eye-watering reading at times.  Although the factual errors were less prevalent, they were present, and in some ways they were even worse than the writing.<BR> <BR>Also, there are areas where Hopkins carefully skirts the issues behind his culinary experiments; he's determinedly neutral on environmental and species-preservation issues.  I imagine his stances would really irritate a committed environmentalist - the section on whales, for example, might raise a few WWF eyebrows, as would the section on bush meat (primates).<br />Still, the book is worth a read, even for people (like me) who are unlikely ever to try any of the foods mentioned.  It's always good to see how the other half lives, and eating is a huge part of that.  For world travelers, too, it is handy to know beforehand what to expect; those who read this book will be fully prepared for strange dietary preferences, no matter where in the world they go.  I don't consider this book useful as a reference source (because of the errors), but it is entertaining.  On the whole, Strange Foods isn't worth the cover price - check it out of the library or buyit used - but it is worth the time it takes to read it.	2001-10-24
US	52836792	R1FM995RSP1R42	0449215741	275732331	Nothing Can Go Wrong: For Cruise Veterans - For Armchair Travelers	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Out-dated but funny	Nothing Can Go Wrong is the story of the last long cruise of one of the last American passenger ships, the Mariposa.  Told in alternating sections by John D. MacDonald (the mystery writer) and Captain John Kilpack, the book shows a fascinating side of cruise ship travel and work that is amusing and even informative. <br />The book was written in 1977, and hence is a bit out-of-date.  This affects MacDonald's sections much more than Kilpack's, though.  Kilpack's sections, which are written in a voice so clear you can almost hear the captain speaking, are mostly stories about incidents on this and other trips, and they retain their humor.  MacDonald's section, being partly a travelogue, is much more susceptible to the ravages of time - most of the places he discusses have changed a lot since he was there.  Still, the book commemorates a wonderful ship and a truly funny cruise - one on which the company said &quot;nothing can go wrong.&quot;  It does, in the form of broken anchors, sinking floats, incompetent harbor pilots, and bureaucracy everywhere.<br />If you can find it, it's well worth reading - both for cruise-ship travelers and those of us who would never set foot on one of the floating monsters.  For a more modern comparison, read Nothing Can Go Wrong alongside David Foster Wallace's A Supposedly Fun Thing I'll Never Do Again.  Recommended for lovers of travel memoirs and travel humor everywhere.	2001-10-16
US	52836792	R3I18DY0MZHJ02	0152622101	598989563	Pish, Posh, Said Hieronymus Bosch	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Gorgeous and Enticing	This book is worth buying for the illustrations alone.  Although the story is not terrifically compelling, and some of the words are too difficult for young children, the book as a whole is a pleasure - endless fun for reading aloud, quite enjoyable for adults and children both.<br />The rhymed verse tells of the woes of Bosch's beknighted housekeeper, who must do all the standard house chores while caring for - and being harrassed by - Bosch's collection of weird creatures.  She decamps, but finds she can't live without Bosch or his menagerie.  Naturally, they live happily ever after.  Some of language here is a little advanced, and most kids will understand the book better if an adult helps read it the first few times through.  <br />The real heart of the book is not the story but the menagerie - the fish with pickle wings, the dandified oven, the three-legged thistles, the assorted dragons and reptiles - that lives all over and through Bosch's house.  The illustrations perfectly capture the peculiar creatures, making them oddly appealing as well as just odd, in lovely, richly-colored and highly detailed renderings.  The special frame (the work of the artists' son) is also wonderful.  <br />So, although the story is a little weak, this book as a whole is a treasure; it's a literate, intelligent work that acts a springboard to fun and imagination for readers of all ages.  The hardbound edition makes an excellent gift for adults who are fans of Bosch or just fantasy, as well as for kids who are tired of cute little stories about Squishy-Wishy Squirrel.	2001-10-10
US	52836792	R1NN7ETH18EZLM	0152622101	598989563	Pish, Posh, Said Hieronymus Bosch	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Gorgeous and Enticing	This book is worth buying for the illustrations alone.  Although the story is not terrifically compelling, and some of the words are too difficult for young children, the book as a whole is a pleasure - endless fun for reading aloud, quite enjoyable for adults and children both.<br />The rhymed verse tells of the woes of Bosch's beknighted housekeeper, who must do all the standard house chores while caring for - and being harrassed by - Bosch's collection of weird creatures.  She decamps, but finds she can't live without Bosch or his menagerie.  Naturally, they live happily ever after.  Some of language here is a little advanced, and most kids will understand the book better if an adult helps read it the first few times through.  <br />The real heart of the book is not the story but the menagerie - the fish with pickle wings, the dandified oven, the three-legged thistles, the assorted dragons and reptiles - that lives all over and through Bosch's house.  The illustrations perfectly capture the peculiar creatures, making them oddly appealing as well as just odd, in lovely, richly-colored and highly detailed renderings.  The special frame (the work of the artists' son) is also wonderful.  <br />So, although the story is a little weak, this book as a whole is a treasure; it's a literate, intelligent work that acts a springboard to fun and imagination for readers of all ages.  The hardbound edition makes an excellent gift for adults who are fans of Bosch or just fantasy, as well as for kids who are tired of cute little stories about Squishy-Wishy Squirrel.	2001-10-10
US	52836792	RFHVIWOULFYKT	0060198508	796622398	Extra Virgin: A Young Woman Discovers the Italian Riviera, Where Every Month Is Enchanted	Books	5	53	55	N	N	A real-life look at living abroad	Don't let the soppy title fool you - Extra Virgin is an excellent memoir of the author's life in small-town Italy.  Annie Hawes has created a down-to-earth (and back-to-the-earth) book that, in addition to an excellent description of life in Liguria, gives a close up look at topics we can all relate to: learning to maintain and improve that first house, fitting in to a new place, adjusting to new customs.<br />Probably the main strength of the book, though, is Hawes' portrait of her adopted home town and its changes through the years.  She has lived at least half the year in Diano San Pietro for 20 years; she's become at least as Ligurian as English, while her town has become more modern and continental - but only a bit.  Reading about Hawes' transformation, I learned along with her -  about the excellent reasons behind some of the strange peasant beliefs, about the culture and society of rural Northern Italy, and about the everyday life of a small Italian town.  <br />In the background are other stories, equally involving: the small gossips, scandals, and events of 20 years in one place.  One of Hawes' virtues is to make her neighbors and friends seem real, with real-person traits and flaws, rather than merely colorful characters, especially as time progresses within the book. <br />The book itself is a pleasant, fun read.  Hawes writes with a lot of gentle and mostly self-directed humor, and her style is breezy and light.  It's easy to identify with her, also, both because of the style and because of the life she describes; I felt less a spectator and more a sympathizer in her struggles and delights.  <br />All in all, Extra Virgin is one of the most enjoyable and knowledgeable living-in-Italy books I've read to date, and it lacks the self-conscious, overblown prose stylings that have rendered some similar books less engaging.  I would recommend this to anyone who loves Italy or travel; it's a book worth reading and owning.	2001-09-08
US	52836792	R2FGI1X2Y1XC7N	0517589591	499265929	Venice: The Four Seasons	Books	3	7	9	N	N	An Unusual Book That Never Quite Takes Off	Venice: The Four Seasons is neither a coffee table book nor a travel book, but it wants to be both, with the result that it does not quite succeed at either.  Although the photos are lovely and less usual views of Venice, and although occasional bits of prose are apt and revealing, in general the book is just not coherent enough to be involving.<br />Lisa St Aubin de Teran has written at least one excellent book about Italy - A Valley in Italy.  In Valley, her somewhat disconnected style supports and is supported by the structure and topic of the book, creating a delightful and funny work.  In Venice, that same style is even more disconnected - her paragraphing is almost random, and the paragraphs themselves do not flow into each other, meaning that the text also doesn't flow - and unfortunately the topic and structure of the book make that disjunction worse. This makes for rather uncompelling text that never seems to commit to a train of thought; you might enjoy what you're reading at the moment, but you don't feel any compulsion to continue reading.  After a while, I found myself fighting the impulse to skim, something I rarely do, just so I could get to the next set of photos faster.<br />The photographs are lovely; almost all professional pictures of Venice are.  It is, after all, one of the most photogenic cities in the world.  It is also one of the most photographed, so I was pleased that Mick Lindberg, the photographer, avoided the easy, cliche shots, presenting a more personal, intimate view of Venice.  And when Lindberg does include standard shots, like gondolas, he offers an unusual take on them - gondolas in a repair shop, in the snow, covered in plastic, etc.  The photos were the most appealing part of the book for me, so I was disappointed that the publishers didn't go for a full-scale coffee-table book approach; the book is smaller than a coffee-table book, and has less space devoted to pictures.  <br />In short, the book is worth reading and examiningfor the creators' take on Venice; they do a fine job of presenting a less-publicized side of the city.  With more photos, and more coherent and focused text, the book would be a classic.  As it is, it is well worth reading once - but not worth the cover price.	2001-09-05
US	52836792	R3QKMYI4YR7LQH	0060926198	200385846	A Valley in Italy	Books	5	33	35	N	N	Travelers put down roots	In A Valley in Italy, Lisa St. Aubin De Teran tells the story of how she found her dream house in Italy and how her perpetually wandering family put down roots at last.  De Teran and her husband bought an unfinished and deteriorating villa in a small town in Umbria and then set about restoring it - or, actually, hiring people to restore it.  In the process, they assimilated into the nearby village, entering its life and even following some of its customs.  <br />Although I loved the book, it probably isn't for everyone.  For one thing, De Teran and her husband are unusual people - the sort of people who would buy an enormous, mostly ruined house without any clear idea of how they would pay for it or how they could rebuild it.  They are bohemian, they live casually, and they clearly have values very different from the average American's.  But for those who can appreciate people unlike themselves, the characters of the family members will make the book; much of the pleasure of it comes from hearing about the results of these people's unusual choices.  <br />Readers should go into this expecting a very personal memoir.  De Teran has chosen an Austen-style microcosm - just a village and a manor house - and focuses on it exclusively.  The result is a book that is not a travel guide and not a cultural survey, but rather a painting of a particular place at a particular time seen through particular eyes.  A Valley in Italy beautifully communicates the nature of San Orsola and its residents - and also, of course, the author and her family.  <br />De Teran's prose, while unorthodox, is most enjoyable.  Her humor and her descriptive prose are extremely enjoyable.  Unlike many of the authors writing memoirs of Italy, De Teran doesn't take her subject with absolutely unleavened gravitas - she can be light and funny as well as artistically descriptive.   In fact, the tone and voice not only make up for the somewhat unconventional paragraphing and the sometimes harsh transitions between topics, they manage to turn it into a cohesive style.  <br />But probably the biggest single strength of the book is the author's involvement.  Too many authors of expat memoirs hold themselves aloof, in their text and presumably in their lives, from their adopted countries.  They lack the linguistic and social skills to enter village life, so they observe it and document it from afar.  De Teran apparently managed to enter into the local culture, and as a result her book contains much less navel-gazing and is much less patronizing than many books of this kind.  <br />In short, Lisa St. Aubin De Teran has written a gorgeous, pleasant, and funny book on the kind of life most of us would rather read about than live.  A Valley in Italy succeeds supremely as both an engaging portrait of an Italian village and an amusing tale of one eccentric family's experiences.  This book is well worth reading, not just once but again and again.	2001-08-21
US	52836792	RRKR5Z5V7GBQ7	0892962879	293872136	Son of Gun in Cheek	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Hilarious tribute to the lesser lights of crime fiction	Son of Gun in Cheek is in fact the second book of praise for the 'alternative' (read: bad) masters of crime fiction, but it can and does stand alone.  In fact, Son of Gun in Cheek is actually superior to Gun in Cheek in many respects.  This is a fabulously funny book - one in which Pronzini discusses, quotes, and even reprints some of the greatest pieces of unintentional humor and utterly amusing badness ever written in the mystery genre.  Like its sister volume, Gun in Cheek, Son of Gun is a veritable fount of the kind of thing you're very grateful someone else read.<br />In this second book, Pronzini gets right down to brass tacks; there's much less history of the genre, and much more quirky, bad, or wonderfully weird extracts and plots.  The 'alternative' examples in Son of Gun seem, to my eye, to be funnier than the ones used in the first book - though most of them are no worse.  (There are a few exceptions, but for the most part, nothing could be worse than the works from the first book.  Let's just say Son of Gun features ones equally bad.)  So if you're looking for humor, this is definitely the book to read.  Of course, if you're looking for a history or critical work, you'd probably be better off starting with Gun in Cheek.<br />Pronzini also does a much better job with format in this book.  While Gun in Cheek attempted a more-or-less standard book format, Son of Gun has the 'Alternative Hall of Fame,' which has a separate entry for each book honored with admission.  This makes the chapters less unwieldy and easier to read aloud.  (And I definitely recommend you read this one aloud; hysteria shared is hysteria tripled, after all.)  Another, more minor improvement comes in the chapters themselves, which are grouped around topics more compelling than in Gun in Cheek.  <br />You don't need to be a mystery fan to appreciate Son of Gun in Cheek; the average mystery reader will not have heard of most authors and books featured here.  (And good thing, too.)  You only need a sense of humor and some rudimentary understanding of things like plot, structure, and common sense, which understanding, I might add, is apparently not shared by most of the authors mentioned.  This book is deeply amusing and, as a bonus, will provide you with many mottos for your future use. (My favorite: &quot;Tut, tut.  Chaos is come again.&quot;)  All in all, a wonderful read - don't let the scarcity of this book hold you back.  Find it.  Read it.  It is a cure for what ails you.	2001-08-18
US	52836792	REQ6MS2ZJNGP9	0449908186	288415961	Italian Neighbors: Or, A Lapsed Anglo-Saxon in Verona	Books	3	12	20	N	N	Some merit, serious demerits: Italian Neighbors	Although Tim Parks has produced an interesting account of life in Italy, Italian Neighbors has flaws that will make some readers very uncomfortable.  Italian Neighbors contains vignettes of Parks' first year living in a small Italian town, with lots of descriptions of his neighbors and his surroundings.  Parks does not provide many details about his life, but apparently he's a British expat married to an Italian, who lives or has lived near Verona.  <br />The crucial thing to remember while reading this book is that Parks is a novelist, not a travel writer or a journalist.  This changes the way he portrays Italy.  As an example, he tends to present his neighbors and friends as characters rather than as people; the difference is hard to quantify or explain, but it becomes obvious during reading.  Those who actually live in Italy, or who merely have Italian friends, will probably be fairly shocked to see Italians portrayed as such quaint and odd little people - frankly, it sounds rather patronizing.  However, I'm convinced it wasn't intended this way; I think Parks is simply viewing his world, and writing about it, the way a novelist must.  Still, this presentation detracts heavily from a reality-based book.  <br />My most serious problem with the book, though, was the portrayal of animal mistreatment.  I think Parks badly misunderstood his audience here.  He's writing in English, and as a group, the natives of English-speaking countries tend to be among the most sensitive to animal cruelty and neglect.  Depsite this, he cheerfully details the absolute miseries - and the wretched death - of his neighbor's maltreated dog, Vega.  Worse yet, he devotes several pages to his plans to poison the poor animal.  It's sickening, and Parks really harps on it, returning to the topic of Vega in a number of chapters.  I wished very much while reading this book that Parks had been kinder to Vega.  At the least, if he couldn't display any real caring or empathy, I wanted him to stoptelling me about his callousness.  He didn't.  Dog lovers will probably not love this book.<br />The book also has strengths.  Parks is very good at capturing the essential nuttiness of the Italian bureaucracy, and tells several amusing anecdotes on that topic.  The author also does a good job at describing an interloper's gradual acceptance into a small town, and he portrays several of the moments in this process - the first greeting, the first friendship - with great realism and feeling.  These promising elements were enough to keep me, at least, reading to the end, but they weren't enough to make me love the book.<br />Summary: Italian Neighbors, while an interesting perspective on small town Italy, falls short in enough areas that it probably will be truly enjoyable only to those who can never read enough about Italy (and who don't care much for dogs).  But for many armchair travelers and expats, the book's merits will provide sufficient justification for a single reading of a library book.  Borrow, don't buy.	2001-08-18
US	52836792	R1G6O1DORYSUD9	0399221255	246210791	Bootsie Barker Bites	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Unusual plot, engaging book	Bootsie Barker Bites tells the familiar tale of the uncongenial playmate, but it provides a much les conventional, and much more satisfying, ending.  The story is interesting, funny, and encompasses a useful lesson about coping with mean kids.<br />The narrator of Bootsie Barker Bites hates playing with Bootsie, but she has to, because Bootsie's mother is her mother's best friend.  Bootsie is mean - she treats the narrator very badly, breaks her toys, tries to hurt her pet lizard, and claims she is a dinosaur who will eat the narrator right up.  The narrator grits her teeth and bears it until she discovers Bootsie will be staying at her house for the night; then she thinks up a plan that turns the tables on her unpleasant playmate.<br />Most authors would have forced an unrealistic but ultrasweet ending from this plot by having Bootsie and the narrator become friends.  Barbara Bottner knows that isn't how real life usually works, so she provides a different ending.  Bootsie doesn't change; the narrator's ability to cope with Bootsie changes.  In addition to being thoroughly satisfying, this ending gives kids a small, easy lesson on dealing with difficult people.<br />The illustrations in the book are energetic and fun. The artist has done an excellent job of making Bootsie look like the archetypal evil toddler.  And the small details of the pictures - the toy turtle on every page, the changing expressions of the stuffed animals, etc. - help hold kids' attention and make the book fun to reread.  <br />Overall, this is a solidly entertaining children's book that contains, but not does not force, a message.  Bootsie Barker Bites is fun for reading out loud or privately; kids enjoy it, and so do adults.	2001-08-09
US	52836792	R3KQONRVD52PPW	0525461191	71048066	The Cello of Mr. O	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Excellent but Sad Tale: Parents Beware	Although The Cello of Mr. O is well-written and beautifully illustrated, it is not a normal picture book.  It has a rather disturbing setting - a modern, war-torn city, filled with rubble and under almost constant attack - a theme that is extremely challenging for the average early reader, and an episode that is rather poignant if not downright sad.  <br />The narrator tells of her life in a an unnamed city, where bombs fall every night.  Her father is off fighting in the mountains.  Her family has no fuel for heat - she worries that, if something does not change before the next winter, they will have to burn their books and furniture to keep warm - and subsist on Red Cross aid delivered by truck.  She says that she is &quot;almost always afraid&quot; and &quot;almost always angry.&quot;  She and her friends hide much of the time; one of their few childish pleasures is exploding bags in front of the apartment belonging to the crabby and reclusive Mr. O, a cellist.<br />Things get worse in the city after the aid truck that makes deliveries is destroyed; no more deliveries can be made because the trucks are too much of a target.  Mr O responds by entering the square in the open and playing his cello at the time when the aid truck would have come - the narrator describes his cello, a special and beautiful object made via the cooperation of people all over the world.  Mr. O's playing brings hope to the city, but then his cello is destroyed, just as the truck was.  Mr. O does not give up; instead, he continues playing in the same place and at the same time, only now he must use a harmonica.  <br />Although the author tells this story very well, the essential components remain disturbing and tragic - as, I'm sure, she intended.  Parents should review this book before reading it to their children, and it is probably not suitable for most children under 8 to read by themselves.  Anyone who shares this with a child should be prepared for difficult questions and, from more sensitive kids, either tears or nightmares.  <br />However, this book would make an excellent companion to a classroom unit on war, particularly with middle or high school students.  The author does an excellent job of conveying the emotions and life of a child caught in a modern war, and convincingly protrays an act of courage and strength and all it represents.  Adults also stand to gain a great deal from the book.  I only wish that it was not presented as standard early-reader fare; it is not, on any level.	2001-08-02
US	52836792	RG439QMVKREHR	0425166139	687527436	The Raphael Affair (Art History Mystery)	Books	3	13	16	N	N	Color by Numbers English Mystery	Possibly the best thing about Iain Pears' art history mystery series is the cover artwork.  Once you actually open the book, it's all downhill.  The characters are weakly developed, the mysteries, such as they are, can be solved almost as soon as they're presented, and the plot dawdles amazingly for such short books.  On the positive side, though, the books are extremely light, chipper, and fast reads - ideal, for example, for convalescents and the clinically depressed.  Those who like a bit of meat to their reading material are advised to look elsewhere, though.<br />Perhaps I'm judging Pears too harshly, but I know he can do better than this.  He has.  His An Instance of the Fingerpost is an astonishing book, well-written, complex, detailed, and utterly satisfying - a book that transcends the mystery genre.  It's hard to believe the Argyll/di Stefano mysteries come from the same author.   <br />In The Raphael Affair, Jonathan Argyll and Flavia di Stefano meet over an investigation into a possible Raphael and a mysteriously deceased dealer in icons.  Unfortunately, that's pretty much the beginning and the ending of the plot - the actual mystery doesn't make its debut until page 100 or so, and even then there isn't much to it.  It is perfectly possible to solve the mystery even though the author commits the cardinal sin of failing to provide the reader with all the clues; however, it is not at all possible to care about the solution.<br />A more serious problem, given that this is the launch of a series, is the lack of character interest and development.  Argyll is a believable character, but not a particularly compelling one - 'art dork' pretty much sums him up, with room to spare - and Flavia, while a good idea, never really makes it into three dimensions; Pears doesn't seem to have a feel for her at all.  The background characters are even weaker, with the exception of Flavia's boss, who is a stereotypical but well-fleshed old-school Italian bureaucrat.<br />Moreinteresting is the background and setting of the book.  Pears obviously is familiar with the art world, and his descriptions are entertaining. The setting is also enjoyable, especially for those who love Italy; Pears clearly has knowledge of, and fondness for, the place, and manages to communicate some of that to the reader.  He also has some humorous observations about the structure and function of Italian bureaucracy.  Unfortunately, there isn't enough of this stuff to make up for the weaknesses of the book.<br />All in all, this book is recommended only for those interested in a very light read, or for those very interested in either Italy or art.  Those who read mysteries for plot or for characters would be better off with another author.  And those who are hoping for a display of talent equal to that shown in An Instance of the Fingerpost will be sadly disappointed.	2001-07-07
US	52836792	R3P7S2MNW4PPQ7	0807594903	484395052	Z is for Zombie	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Eeek!  It's...the Alphabet!	Z Is for Zombie is just what it sounds like: a (loosely) Halloween-themed alphabet book.  Featuring eerie illustrations above a related couplet (&quot;Zombie: From the earth the Zombies rise./Walking corpses terrorize!&quot;), this book will appeal to the kids who love ghosts, horror stories, and anything icky.  It will also appeal to ghoulish parents, and those who are growing tired of alphabet books.<br />However, caveat emptor: the illustrations are not comic, nor do they pull punches.  The giant tarantula picture, which spans two pages, will not be even remotely fun for the arachnophobic (even adults can get geechy looking at this one).  And the illustration for E, a sink lined with jars full of eyeballs, might be over-the-top for the young or squeamish types - the sink has blood dripping down the sides, and some of the eyeballs have visible stalks.  <br />Definitely review this before you read it with children, and know your audience.  This book is best used with utterly unflappable kids (you know who they are), and probably shouldn't be read in story times or to other large groups - there's always going to be at least one kid who will be terrified.  Still, for the right people, this book will be delightfully horrible fun - perfect for Halloween night.	2001-05-19
US	52836792	R32B4W7B0LZZTL	0395726182	681735829	Golem (CALDECOTT MEDAL BOOK)	Books	4	31	38	N	N	Read with Care: Golem is Wonderful but *Disturbing*	Golem is a gorgeously illustrated, well-written, and educational tale, with deep connections to Jewish tradition and faith.  However, the story is also very sad and distressing, especially for those who are impressionable or sensitive.  I suggest that parents review this book carefully, looking through their children's eyes, before sharing it even with teenagers; likewise, I suggest they be prepared for some nearly unanswerable questions.  <br />The book retells the legend of Rabbi Leow and the Golem he created from clay to protect the Jews of Prague during a time of danger for them.  Anti-semitic factions within the city were spreading rumors that Passover matzoh was made with the blood of Christian children; this rumor, called the Blood Lie, led to attacks and abuses of the defenseless Jews.  Already, the story is a deeply distressing one, too upsetting for the average child.  It gets worse, though - the Golem, who calls Rabbi Leow 'Father,' protects and saves the Jews, and then begs the Rabbi not to kill him.  Leow does anyway.  While the message here is one about the wise use of power, it was mostly lost on our family, since at that point everyone was crying too hard to think at all.  <br />There's no doubt that the book is well presented.  It's beautiful, with cut-paper illustrations that seem to spring off the page.  However, even these gorgeous pictures cast a pall; they are grim in tone and appearance, at times giving a hellish cast to a story that needed no further embroidering in that department.  The novel medium - photographs of cut paper - and the success with which it is used do merit the Caldecott Medal.<br />However, unlike most Caldecott books, this one is not for casual or entertainment reading, nor is it for children.  I can't emphasize this enough.  I would never read this book with children younger than 12, or ones unfamiliar with Jewish history; even as it is, I more than half regret sharing it, despite its beauty, depth, and educational value.It provoked some painful questions (in particular, about the cruelty of all people, including Rabbi Leow) and left us all depressed.	2001-05-10
US	52836792	R3AU9ZV3AOX428	0374347867	69178344	The Man Who Caught Fish	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Attractive tale with an unexpected moral	The Man Who Caught Fish is a simple tale with an obvious, though not preachy, moral.  Told in the style of a folk tale, but apparently an original work, the story is about a stranger who arrives in a village one day with a miraculous ability to catch fish.  He distributes them to all and sundry, saying only: &quot;One person, one fish.&quot;  The king, a proud individual, believes he deserves a basketful of fish; after all, is not a king better than the common man, who gets one?  The tale progresses from there, building to an unexpected (and slightly creepy) ending.  The moral, basically, is that pride goeth before a fall.  <br />The illustrations are delicate and muted, very different from the eye-catching, lively pictures that are more common in today's picture books.  These paintings mesh perfectly with the style and setting of the story, vividly depicting a Thailand of long ago.<br />The book will have the greatest appeal for children in the upper end of the picture book age range; very young children will probably be less attracted to both the slightly abstract story and the complex illustrations.  Parents will also enjoy the book, making it perfect for reading aloud, with discussion time to follow.	2001-05-09
US	52836792	R2G3M87Q4E2R6L	0688168817	221626247	All Alone in the Universe	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A surprising find	All Alone in the Universe is for anyone who remembers middle school as torture, often at the hands of peers.  It's also for people living through middle school right now.  (To whom I say: survive.  Things will get better.)  <br />The basic story line isn't much.  Debbie and Maureen have been best friends since third grade, and now Maureen is moving on, leaving Debbie behind - and alone.  Debbie records this with a great deal of insight and wisdom, and almost painful honesty.  She also throws in nifty illustrations and a lot of small vignettes, some of which are very funny, all of which demonstrate the way people, sometimes strangers, can change your life.  <br />Debbie is helped through her crisis by lots of unexpected people - a gardener and his employer, her English teacher, a girl her own age even more outcast than herself - and learns that some small acts of kindness can have an effect out of proportion to the effort required to make them.  The message is twofold: you can live through change and loss.  And we can all help others sometimes - and we all need help sometimes.  <br />This is a small book with surprising depth.  Buy it for the middle-schooler in your life, but be sure to read it for yourself, too.	2001-04-27
US	52836792	R3OU7WT1BXUPEN	089296717X	433297814	Bad News (Dortmunder Novels)	Books	4	1	3	N	Y	A slightly weaker link in a very strong chain	If you're like me, when you pick up a new book in a beloved series, you feel a combination of hope and fear.  Well, Dortmunder fans, hope a bit less and fear a bit more.  But buy the book anyway.  Sure, Bad News is not as good as the best Dortmunder novels, certainly not as funny as the recent series entries.  Remember, though - it's possible for a book to be not as good as almost all the other ones in *this* series and still be better than most things published in the genre this year.  That's what's happening here.<br />This is the tale of a Simple Plan, like all the other Dortmunder books; it's just that in this case, the plan belongs to some other folks.  At first.  After a while, though, Tiny, Andy, and John are in, and most of the original group is naked in the back of various long-haul semis.  The plot turns and dips just as you'd expect from a Westlake book, and it's great fun to be along for the roller coaster ride.  <br />There's a few things missing from Bad News, though.  The first one is the humor.  Oh, sure, it's in there, but not to the extent of the other books, many of which it's impossible to read without risking laughter-related abdominal injuries.  Bad News has a few laugh-out-loud moments and a lot of quick smiles, and then it's over.  So, not bad, but - not quite what a longtime fan of the series fantasizes about in Dortmunder hiatuses.  <br />The other notable absence from Bad News: the support crew.  Stan and Murch's Mom make quick appearances, and Anne Marie shows up again, but beyond that, well, no unbalanced lockmen, no behatted extra drivers, no former vice presidents of various nations, none of those folks.  I, at least, missed these people, and wish there'd been a bit more room in the book for them.  They're replaced by Fitzroy (who reminds me of a certain character in The Princess Bride), Irwin (standard issue), and Little Feather.  Frankly, I'd rather have the regular guys.<br />Finally, for a hardcover book, my copy is rather poorly bound.  I buy hardcovers because I expect to read and read and read them - which I probably will with this book, flaws and all - and I doubt this one will stand the test of time.  After one read through, treating it very kindly, the spine is already starting to show symptoms of wear and creakiness, and some of the page groups don't look very firmly set, with gaps and so forth.  There's also a certain ineffable feeling of cheapness about the book's production; the paper is lower quality than I'd want, there's no spine overlay, it's all just a bit - shoddy feeling.  First editions, especially of this series, deserve better treatment than this.  <br />All in all, though, Bad News is still a book worth reading, a book worth having, and certainly a book far better than those available in this genre in the non-Dortmunder years.  But those who are wondering whether to buy it in hardback or softcover, know this: I wish I'd waited to buy it in paperback.  I could've saved the fourteen bucks for the next Dortmunder novel.  (Let it come soon!)	2001-04-26
US	52836792	R2P5K8WLRN7QBY	8420428612	349892901	Two Much (Spanish Edition)	Books	2	6	8	N	N	A Modern Morality Tale Disguised as a Mystery	Two Much is an uneasy blend of several genres, and even Westlake, the master of the comic crime subgenre, can't pull this one off.  The book is a blend of crime caper, humor, and morality tale, and it left me, at least, strongly dissatisfied.  <br />Art Dodge is a writer of comic greeting cards until he meets wealthy and beautiful twins, and decides he'd like both the ladies and all their money.  Art spawns a twin, Bart, and together they seduce their way into two relationships, with Art growing more exhausted all the time.  Art eventually decides he's going to have to resolve the situation, criminally. <br />Here's the thing: parts of this novel are intended to be strictly humorous, and they are, with Art dodging between his two girlfriends and trying to remember who he is and where he's supposed to be.  Then the thing metamorphoses into a serious study of the criminal mind, and loses pretty much all its humor in an ending that is utterly out of character with the rest of the book.  It's like the author underwent a massive mood swing two-thirds of the way into the book.  I found this change of pace, tone, and content jarring and distressing - and, of course, it utterly ruins any re-read you might happen to be planning.  <br />Frankly, Westlake can do better than this.  Much better.  And he has.  I would recommend this book only to serious Westlake fans seeking to complete their collections.  Those looking for an entertaining, funny read should turn to the Dortmunder series, or some of the comic standalones, like Dancing Aztecs.  Those looking for a tense and serious read should head for The Hook or The Ax.  And those looking for a tight, hard mystery would probably appreciate Westlake's work as Richard Stark more.	2001-04-26
US	52836792	R3IZ9RK7O4BMED	0446677035	526237241	The Hot Rock	Books	5	44	45	N	N	The Perfect Start to the Perfect Series	If you haven't devoured the whole Dortmunder series by now, wait no longer: start with this one, and as soon as your stomach muscles recover, move on to the rest.  This is the kickoff to the funniest mystery series ever written.  <br />Our hero is Dortmunder, a very recent ex-con.  His opponent is the Balabomo Emerald, a gem with a history, a price on its head, and, apparently, a nasty sense of humor.  Hired by the representative of an African nation that wants the jewel for religious and political reasons, Dortmunder assembles a team of the finest, funniest men ever to make a dishonest dollar.  They make attempt after attempt (as the blurb says, giving new meaning to the term repeat offender) at the job, striking by helicopter, train, and mesmerism, among others.  Any one of the plans should succeed.  But fate - or the emerald - has other ideas.<br />The plot is only part of the humor, though.  In a way, the Dortmunder series is very like Terry Pratchett's Discworld series; they both rely on language and character as much as situations for laughs, and they both get incredible results from the strategy.  <br />Seriously, this book (and the series it spawned) is a better antidepressant than any pharmaceutical I've ever encountered.  If you're just now starting here, wow, do I envy you.  (But how did you live this long without Dortmunder?)	2001-04-26
US	52836792	R1RCOB2W9S0WT0	0590898000	388998978	Bat 6	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Definitely a discussion book	Bat 6 is a wonderful book.  No doubt about that.  It's also a challenging book in a number of ways, and it may not be appropriate for every 9-12 year old.  (I notice, for example, that the adults who reviewed it loved it, but many of those in the 'appropriate' age group did not.)  Frankly, this book may be more suitable and interesting for YAs, not because of the subject matter or the reading level, but because of the book's structure, themes, and style.  However, Bat 6 would be an ideal book for reading groups, parent-child reads, and other book discussion groups, and could certainly be used in that context with pre-teens.<br />Bat 6 will also be great for any reader, pre-teen or YA, who enjoys a more serious or challenging book.  It will probably also turn off a kid who doesn't like reading, or who reads only action-based, straightforward books.  The story is told from many different viewpoints, and it is not a straight narrative; also, the majority of the story takes place outside of the game, in simple, everyday actions.  This won't appeal to everyone.  The writing style varies from narrator to narrator, with varying levels of grammar and writing skill.  Again, this can be difficult for some.  Finally, this is not a plot with a standard arc; in most books about a single game, the story builds to the big showdown, and the tension and climax come from the winning or losing of the Big Game.  Someone expecting a normal sports book is going to be disappointed with Bat 6.  <br />However, the book's depth makes it perfect for reading groups.  It provides material to start discussions about morals and values, violence and society, and child-rearing, just as examples.  Some interesting topics for discussion would include: <br />*  Many people in the book had indications of Shazam's problems and kept them secret; did they make good or bad decisions, and why?  Have you ever been in a similar situation?  What did you do?<br />*  Aki's attitude of shikata ga nai (there is nothing to be done about it) is very different from most of the other characters' reactions.  Little Peggy thinks Aki should be mad, whether or not she can change anything.  Do you agree with Little Peggy?  Why or why not?<br />*  How did Shazam (and others like her) learn to hate the Japanese?  Was her mother solely responsible?  Was Lorelei's father correct when he said that such things are inevitable in a warlike society?  Did the Japanese internment camps have anything to do with the problem?  <br />Those are just three examples; there are literally dozens more.  This isn't going to be a pleasure read for everyone - though some will definitely love it! - but it is an important and moving book, and I encourage parents, teachers, and group leaders to use it.  I also encourage everyone to read the author's bio *before* reading the book; Ms. Wolff's comments about what inspired her to write Bat 6 are critical to understanding the book.	2001-04-25
US	52836792	R20C0AQMQ18EP6	069100689X	153103130	Life and Death on Mt. Everest	Books	5	22	25	N	N	Sometimes good things come in miswrapped packages...	Although Life and Death on Mt. Everest is a book with an identity crisis, it is nonetheless a fascinating work that should interest armchair adventurers and mountaineers alike.  Despite the title, parts of the jacket flap blurb, and even the quotes on the back, Life and Death is really an anthropological examination of mountaineering and the Sherpa-Sahib (author's term) relationship, within the context of the history and culture of both groups.  Most of the relatively minor problems with the book arise from the identity crisis; this book can't decide whether it is an academic or a popular work.  I suspect, though of course I can't know, that Ortner wrote the book as an academic monograph, and her publishers then altered it superficially to capitalize on the resurgence of Everest interest.  <br />The text itself will present a few problems to the lay reader.  It has too much information on Ortner's theory, philosophy, and methods of anthropology if it is intended strictly for the layman.  The academic-style footnotes are frustrating; Ortner uses copious end-of-text footnotes, mostly to give citations, but also to supply additional information, commentary, and anecdotes.  In order to get that extra information, the reader has to refer back and forth constantly, breaking up the flow of the read.  If this is intended to be, in whole or in part, a popular work, Ortner should have moved the added-data footnotes to the bottom of the page, and left the citations at the end.  Also, the author is a little too inclusive - she includes more about Sherpa religion than is really necessary to provide cultural background; this distracts from the main theme of the book.  It would also, of course, be uninteresting to laypeople interested solely in climbing.  Finally, Ortner doesn't always cite authors of quotations in the body of the text.  That would be fine for academics, but not so for armchair adventurers, who will be familiar with most of the sources and will always want to knowwho said what.  <br />However, these are minor quibbles, really, considering the book's value.  Although there are huge numbers of expedition accounts and life-of-a-climber memoirs available, there are relatively few books that examine climbing as a culture.  And though Sherpas are mentioned in every book ever written about Himalayan mountaineering, the information is always one-sided and usually one-dimensional.  Ortner, in one volume, manages to change both those things; she describes climbing from the outside and Sherpa culture from the inside, and in the process brings valuable insight to both.  And despite the author's academic bent, the book is not dense or dull; it's a fast, light read, especially considering its depth.<br />This book is not for readers seeking an adrenaline rush or those with a short attention span, but it is for almost everyone else.  Himalayan climbers will benefit from the perspective on both their hobby and their Sherpa partners.  Armchair adventurers will finally find the answers to some of their persistent questions about Sherpas, and will also find the view of climbing illuminating.  And those who are interested in anthropology or other cultures will be gripped by the descriptions of Sherpa life and acculturation.  Basically, the book is an all-around winner.	2001-04-21
US	52836792	R1PFPV94S8V2HD	1883642949	337947956	Africa Solo: A Journey Across the Sahara, Sahel and Congo	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Feeling Africa	Kevin Kertscher's Africa Solo is the account of the kind of trek that just cannot be undertaken right now, and so it's worth reading for both its historical and its sociological value.  Although it is different from many travel books in that it focuses on individual experience rather than history or events, the book offers a different kind of education: a single person's insight and experience.<br />In the late 1980s, Kertscher trekked - mostly by hitchhiking, with some walking and one plane trip - through West, Central, and East Africa, taking a winding path from Oran in Algeria to Nairobi in Kenya.  He also traveled mostly alone, which gave him a lot more exposure to the continent, and put him in more danger as well.  An average person like Kertscher probably could not duplicate this trip today; political instability and unrest have rendered many of the countries he visited more dangerous for foreigners, as well as altering the areas through which he traveled significantly since his journey.<br />That change is one of the primary reasons why Kertscher's book is still worth reading - he provides an account of an older Africa the one that gave birth to the current one.  His observations of Mobutu's Zaire, while not as detailed as Helen Winternitz's in East Along the Equator, explain a great deal about the current situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.  And his account of Rwanda during a break in its long history of conflict is surprising - he describes it as one of the most peaceful and progressive countries in Africa.<br />The personal perspective of the book - the author's solo movement through the continent, relying mostly on others for transportation - is also valuable; I got a better sense of the regional differences in the people than I have from other Africa books.  Kertscher also experienced much more than most travelers do of the kindness of strangers in Africa; in his sort of travel, he was forced to rely on others, and it impressed me how often those others came through for him.  I can't say I'd travel the way he did, but the results were apparently better than I would have expected.  <br />All in all, this is an engrossing read that provides a personal perspective on one portion of a very large place. Africa Solo should not be used as a guidebook, because of the many changes in the area, but cultures do change more slowly than governments, so perhaps a person planning a trip to the area would still benefit from this book.  Certainly armchair travelers will enjoy it.	2001-04-18
US	52836792	R10K1Y41PRAF2G	0399231412	871095992	Backwater (Novel)	Books	3	9	13	N	N	Bauer's latest needs some help...	The plot of Joan Bauer's latest novel, Backwater, will be intensely familiar to anyone who has read her books.  Backwater suffers from this sameness, as well as from a certain forced feeling; it's [note CORRECT use of it-apostrophe-s] also hampered by *severe* editing problems.  <br />The plot of Backwater will be extremely familiar to anyone who has read Squashed, Bauer's best book so far.  Ivy Breedlove, a teenager on a mission (in this book, family history), succeeds despite opposition from her father (in this book, a lawyer) and the people around her (in this book, her extended family).  Ivy's mother died when Ivy was six (as opposed to eight, which is how old Ellie was in Squashed).  Ivy has been given a great deal of strength from her Great-Aunt Tib (as opposed to grandmother, as in Ellie's case).  And so on.  Frankly, I'd like to see Bauer use her undeniable sense of humor and writing skills on an entirely new plot.<br />That isn't to say, though, that this plot doesn't have its differences; it's just that most of those differences feel forced.  Ivy Breedlove is as unusual as most of Bauer's protagonists, but so is everything around her and everything she does, including her aunt's bird city and most of her winter mountain trek.  There wasn't anything usual anywhere in the book, and the cumulative effect of all this originality was a sense of total *un*reality; I was not able to suspend disbelief far enough to buy any of it.<br />Also, the editing in the first hardcover edition of this book was, quite simply, a *disaster*.  There are dozens of mistakes in possessives alone (it's is used to mean belonging-to-it consistently throughout the book, not to mention single errors like parents used to mean belonging-to-parents), as well as some painful spellchecker spelling errors (words substituted for other words).  There's also at least one place where editing errors interfere with the plot of the novel itself; look at the use of &quot;Backwater&quot; v. &quot;Breedlove&quot; in the Town Records scene.  However, unlike the first edition, the paperback edition lists an editor, so I'm hoping that means these errors have been fixed.  <br />The book does have a few saving graces, though; there's a great deal of humor, always a pleasure to encounter in YA novels, and there's some great descriptions of people and places.  So, I'll say it again: Bauer does have talents, obvious ones, but her most recent novels simply don't display them to advantage.  <br />This book is only worth reading if you've already read Squashed.  If you haven't, read that instead.  In fact, of all of Bauer's works, this one is probably the one that should be read *last*.	2001-04-18
US	52836792	RBA0XJFTNL4P5	0812933400	657286306	The Other Side of Everest: Climbing the North Face Through the Killer Storm	Books	5	55	57	N	N	An excellent companion to 'Into Thin Air'	I was a bit hesitant to read The Other Side of Everest; it was beginning to seem to me that there wasn't a person anywhere near the mountain during 1996 that *hadn't* written a book.  I figured this one would be a rehashing of the story we all know so well, from Into Thin Air and other books.  How wrong I was.  The Other Side of Everest offers a different perspective of the 1996 tragedies, but it's well told - *and* the book offers a great deal more.<br />Dickinson, in my opinion, did a better job than Krakauer at writing for the non-climbing audience, perhaps because he isn't really a climber at all.  He doesn't use much jargon, and when he does - &quot;the Death Zone,&quot; for example, which was the UK title of this book - he defines his terms.  He also answers a lot of the questions non-mountaineers and armchair adventurers have about climbing; for once and for all, he explains why climbers dread calls of nature above 8,000 meters, as just one example.<br />Dickinson writes very differently than most climbers, especially the ones who have written about Everest 1996.  His narrative retains the tension and, in some places, tragedy that are common to the best expedition accounts, but he also uses humor in places where it's appropriate.  I found myself laughing out loud in several places.  The Other Side of Everest is also different in that it doesn't have the haunted, agonizing tone that Into Thin Air did, perhaps because Dickinson was farther from the tragedies, relatively speaking, or perhaps just because he waited longer than Krakauer did to write about it.  Also, The Other Side is an account of a successful, &quot;easy&quot; Everest climb, not a disaster, which changes the perspective and the tone a lot from the other books about the 1996 season.       <br />In additional to the Everest-disaster-season story, The Other Side has another story to tell: how a non-climber got to the top of the world.  Dickinson's case of summit fever drives him to the top of a mountain he didn't really expect to climb - after all, he's clumsy even at sea level - and so his book is a good look at the way normal people with little mountaineering experience (i.e., commercial expedition members) handle high-altitude climbs - and, to the extent that it can be explained at all, why.<br />This book was written by a film director, so perhaps it isn't a surprise that the pictures are so good, but it's lovely anyway.  I'm also pleased that the publishers sprung for two different insets of color photos, at least in the hardcover edition; some of them are truly breathtaking.  <br />In short, The Other Side of Everest is well worth reading for all lovers of adventure travel and climbing writing; even those who feel they've read Everest to death should enjoy this one.  The book is a welcome addition to climbing literature, and would give pleasure on almost anyone's bookshelf.	2001-04-18
US	52836792	R8Q0KT8C8D3MI	1892065169	62811729	Kirith Kirin	Books	4	65	73	N	N	Strange departure	I must say I approached this one with both curiousity and trepidation; I've read most of Jim Grimsley's novels - Winter Birds, Comfort and Joy, Dream Boy - and found them well-written, engrossing, unusual, even masterful.  But Kirith Kirin is a huge departure for Grimsley, who has crossed a line most authors won't: from 'literary' fiction to genre fiction, in this case fantasy.  I wondered, starting the book, if he'd pull it off.  Verdict?  He stumbles in places, and Kirith Kirin is not up to the level of his other novels, but there's some good stuff in there.  In short - it reads like a lot of the better first novels do, and as long as you can read it without dwelling on either its flaws or the fact that it *isn't* a first novel, it's quite enjoyable.<br />But let's go back to those flaws for a second.  First on that list for me was the main romantic relationship in the book, between Jessex, the farmboy-turned-magician-turned-savior-of-the-world, and Kirith Kirin, the virtually immortal king.  Jessex is *15* for most of the book.  For me, the disparity in ages - thousands of years old v. 15 - was too great.  Sure, Jessex was willing, but the relationship seemed to me to be coming too close to pederasty.  And the rationalizations offered by Jessex, as the narrator, weren't really enough to make me comfortable.  (I also found myself wondering why Kirith Kirin, who has lived for millenia, couldn't find the wisdom and self-control to keep his hands off Jessex long enough for him to start shaving.)<br />Another problem with the book is the length.  It's 500 dense, closely printed, oversized pages.  Now, I've read some great books of that length, books that needed and deserved to be that long, but Kirith Kirin isn't one of them.  It begs for some judicious editing.  In places, the excess verbiage drags the pace of the book down considerably - in particular, it seemed to me there were areas where Grimsley could've omitted his detailed descriptions - with things like travel itineraries, for example, and the many ordinary days the characters spend on horseback.  <br />However, the book has some great strengths, too.  Despite a rather standard-issue plot (one that shows Grimsley's familiarity with fantasy literature, I might add), there is some true inventiveness in Kirith Kirin.  In particular, the magic system and magic use stood out as an order of magnitude above what most fantasy books have to offer; for once in my life, I read an entire book in the genre without hearing any echoes of the Dungeons &amp; Dragons magic system.  <br />Also, Grimsley displays his usual command of the language despite the padding effect.  Even the excess prose is a pleasure to read, especially in a genre like fantasy, where the writing isn't always of a high order.  He also takes the opportunity to do some additional explorations of his usual themes - isolation, for example - and images.<br />Overall, there's a lot more of Grimsley in this book than I had feared, and a lot less of the derivative stuff that fills a lot of fantasy novels.  Although it did seem to me that the author hadn't quite settled into the genre, the book is very readable, and I expect that if Grimsley continues with the fantasy experiment, we should be seeing marvelous stuff in a book or two.  So, in the final analysis: if you can give the author a bit of slack, you'll find a book that lives up to the genre, and in places goes beyond it.	2001-04-15
US	52836792	R1JLBGP0OEFQZ7	0688172725	454524664	As the Romans Do: The Delights, Dramas, And Daily Diversions Of Life In The Eternal City	Books	3	18	22	N	N	A glance at Rome	When it comes to the living-abroad type of travel memoir, I have expectations of depth, insight, and extensive knowledge - hey, an author living in the midst of his subject should have all the time in the world for research and thought, right?  And Alan Epstein, with his degree in European history and his work as a guide and lecturer, ought to be able to do even better than your average Mayes, Mayle, or Gervais.   Or so I thought when I picked up this book.  What I found, though, was that there just wasn't a lot to As the Romans Do; it lacked both the skillful writing and the insightful depth that make up the best travel books.   <br />The poor grammar and editing of this book drove me nuts.  Epstein uses an awful lot of enormously long, convoluted sentences with no special stylistic rationale.  And even he gets lost in his own sentences - if you parse them out, you'll notice lots of missing subjects and lost clauses, lots of five-line fragments.   One of the strengths of much of the memoir-style travel writing is the craftsmanship of the writers, but that's definitely not the case with this book.  <br />Still, weak writing is survivable; weak content isn't.   That's the biggest problem with the book - there just isn't a whole lot of Rome in As the Romans Do.   Epstein only skims along the surface, without ever going into depth or revealing anything bigger than himself.  Each chapter is just long enough to give the gist of the topic.  The true insights that can come from reading about living abroad - insights about the way we are, as well as about the way other people live - are missing in action.  In one chapter, Epstein briefly discusses a meeting at his sons' school, using it to illustrate a weak point about the way people argue in Italy.  It would have been much more revealing and interesting had he gone into depth about the differences between Italian and American schooling and about his family's experiences with Roman schools.  Harriet Welty does this in French Toast (with French schools, of course), and it's the most revealing part of her book - how we educate our children says a lot about who we are.  But Epstein doesn't pursue this topic, or any of the others, and left me wishing for more.  <br />All in all, this is a very short, light look at one of the world's oldest and richest cultures.  I finished the book frustrated by the writing style and disappointed because I'd hoped for much more.	2001-04-15
US	52836792	RFZEQ71HIPEJJ	095253780X	836509259	Around and About Paris, Volume 1:  From the Dawn of Time to the Eiffel Tower (Arrondissements 1 - 7)	Books	3	33	38	N	N	Dense, difficult, and informative	Around and About Paris, Volume 1, reads pretty much like a medium-quality textbook; it's dense (*tiny* print and very small amounts of white space), it's informative (*filled* with trivia and fascinating - as well as not-so-fascinating - facts), and it's obtuse in places.  The book does provide lots of information and some very nice Paris walks, but you'll have to sieve through a lot of junk to get to the meat of it.<br />The book's most serious problem, at least for me, is the writing.  I suspect, though I don't know, that the author's English was a second language.  The sentences are at times torturously constructed.  Often, subjects and verbs are in places where a native English speaker probably wouldn't put them; sometimes one or the other is even missing - when you parse the sentence, you realize it's actually just a very long fragment, with lots of clauses that confuse the issue.  Sometimes, too, it isn't clear what a modifier is supposed to be modifying, or which noun a pronoun refers to.  In the worst cases, the meaning of a sentence cannot be divined at all because an error has been made at a crucial point.  Some careful, detailed editing could've made this book a lot easier to read and use - and more informative, too.<br />However, there is still a lot of information in Around and About, even if you do have to work to get at it.  The maps aren't the clearest in the world, but they're good enough, especially since prominent landmarks are marked.  And the walks themselves provide an interesting take on Paris; the idea of walking through history is a great one.  Parents with older children could probably use this as a resource for some very educational traveling, though I would recommend that the adults do the reading and then condense and prune somewhat for the kids.  <br />All in all, despite the book's flaws, it's a nice supplementary resource for people visiting Paris - or those studying French history.  You will, however, also want more conventional guidebooks or textbooks unless Paris and its history is already very familiar ground indeed.	2001-04-10
US	52836792	R1TIJH6LGVTLFQ	1587152851	914533777	With A Single Spell	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Ultralight fantasy	Watt-Evans, in With a Single Spell, has addressed a problem that's haunted role-playing gamers since the first edition of AD&amp;D: what can a wizard do with only one spell?  <br />Tobas, the main character of Single Spell, has more troubles than the average AD&amp;D character, even.  As an apprentice wizard, he only managed to learn one spell before his master died - and that one lights fires.  An orphan, he has nowhere to go, and he can't make a living doing what a flint can do almost as well as he can.  So, despite his strong disinclination for travel, Tobas just has to adventure - he fights a dragon, saves a princess, learns magical secrets, all while hoping that soon he'll be able to settle down.<br />Although the plot isn't especially original and many of the characters are basically stock, Watt-Evans has done a fine job with the book; he's made it a very light, sunny romp through a world any reader of fantasy or player of RPGs will recognize.  With a Single Spell is ideal reading for fans of Robert Aspirin, invalids in need of soothing distraction, and those who remember playing a first-level mage all too well.	2001-04-09
US	52836792	R13QL6FKAQVESR	0671019910	951401528	Addicted to Danger: Affirming Life in the Face of Death	Books	3	6	6	N	N	A climber's life - an overview	Jim Wickwire's Addicted to Danger isn't an expedition book.  It's the story, not of climbing, but of a climber's life, or appears to be; at any rate, it covers things other than climbing, including a quick overview of the author's early life, and some rather more in-depth coverage of the murders of a colleague and his family, as well as Wickwire's unconsummated love affair with a fellow climber.  In such a book, one where climbing is explored through a single climber's story, I would hope for insight and perhaps even some answers to the big questions about climbing - you know, the ones that start with 'why.'  And while there is a tiny bit of that, Wickwire skips most of it, and in so doing, impoverishes the book and deprives the reader.<br />The book offers just a tantalizing glimpse of one of the more interesting aspects of climbing - the way the sport affects the climber's family.  It seems that for every man who does Eiger or Denali or K2, there's a Penelope working just as hard holding down the home front.  In Addicted to Danger, Wickwire makes it painfully clear that his wife, Mary Lou, is even more Penelope than most.  She raised their five children while he climbed mountains, yet he writes less about her, and their 35-year marriage, than he does about his brief love affair with another climber.  But although he expresses some regrets about the way his hobby interfered with his family life, the results of that aren't really discussed, and no one else's point of view is heard.  I got the impression that a book by Mary Lou would've been much more interesting than this one was.  <br />Another place where Wickwire missed the chance to tell an interesting story is in the many sections that deal with the inevitable tragedies of the climbing life, the deaths of rope partners and friends.  During every tragedy, Wickwire vows to stop or curtail his climbing; afterwards, he quickly retracts the promise.  Just baldly stating the pattern isn't very novel - dozens, if nothundreds, of climbers have documented and discussed the phenomenom.  It would've been much more interesting and revealing if Wickwire had explained the thought processes behind the pattern - the rationalizations, the struggle, whatever.  He says in his introduction that he spent hours agonizing over such issues while writing the book; what a pity more of that didn't make it to the page. <br />  However, despite the fact that Wickwire evaded all the most interesting behind-the-scenes stories, the book is still worth reading for those interested in climbing. It provides some intersting parellel views - compare Addicted's chapter on the 1975 K2 attempt to Galen Rowell's book In the Throne Room of the Mountain Gods, for example - and a nice sense of balance - Wickwire is willing to show us the failures as well as the successes.  He also gives the reader a look at how age and maturity affect climbers and climbing.  The book might not be ideal for the armchair climber, and it certainly isn't the stuff of classic adventure travel writing, but it's a nice, light, supplemental read.	2001-04-07
US	52836792	R3LCEIAGLPDQPH	0440416434	849216117	Sammy Keyes and the Curse of Moustache Mary	Books	3	3	10	N	N	Comes up empty	The initial entries in the Sammy Keyes series were entertaining, humorous, and written with a deft touch.  It's sad, then, that Sammy Keyes and the Curse of Moustache Mary reads like a poor imitation of Van Draanen's better books.  <br />For one thing, Moustache Mary has a lot less *mystery* to it than you'd expect in a mystery novel.  It isn't merely that the solution to the mystery is obvious, it's that it seems almost irrelevant for much of the book.  Many of the scenes come off like filler; they're unconnected to the mystery, the plot line, or any character development, and so deprive the novel of the tight plot and fast pace of, say, Sammy Keyes and the Hotel Thief.  And nothing appears to fill that space.  <br />Another big hole is left where the characters used to be.  Sammy herself is given some opportunities here for change and growth (no matter how handled), but her supporting cast is getting stale.  Moustache Mary suffers from the lack of Sammy's grandmother, who makes no appearance at all, and from the reduction of Marissa to little more than the occasional walk-on.  The characters just for this book aren't given much chance to develop, either, meaning pretty much every person in the book comes off as cardboard background for Sammy. <br />And Sammy herself is changing, in rather unwelcome ways; Van Draanen appears to have foundered on the issue of adolescence.  Sammy has, in past novels, been portrayed as a streetwise, intelligent girl, but in Moustache Mary, she comes off as wildly naive and a bit immature - she recoils in shock at the very concept of high school kids drinking and smoking, for example, and she's caught firmly in the &quot;boys...eeeewwww&quot; mode more common on elementary school playgrounds than in pubescent girls.  Most girls Sammy's age know quite a bit about this stuff, even if they don't approve of using that knowledge.  Van Draanen appears to be writing with more wishful thinking than accuracy, here.  <br />This one may appeal toserious Sammy Keyes fans, and to readers considerably younger than Sammy herself is supposed to be.  For others, there are more intelligent mysteries out there - check out Ellen Raskin's classic The Westing Game, for example.	2001-03-30
US	52836792	RWXGS5RY9DRFV	0679729089	495181865	Bad Trips: A Sometimes Terrifying, Sometimes Hilarious Collection of Writing on the Perils of the Road	Books	3	17	17	N	N	*Sad* Trips, not Bad Trips	This anthology's title is off by one letter: it should be called Sad Trips, not Bad Trips.   The phrase 'bad trips' (and especially the book's front cover description: &quot;A sometimes terrifying, sometimes hilarious collection of writing on the perils of the road&quot;) suggests to me the journeys that are hell to live through but fun to look back on, like, say, the time I spent three days trapped in the Boise, Idaho airport with what seemed to be the entire population of the state of Idaho.  Those are the kinds of stories I expected from this anthology.  <br />But in Bad Trips, the editor gives us a few funny stories along with tales alternately grim, gruesome, and depressing beyond all description.  Just a few examples of the topics covered: a walk through a refugee village full of starving children, the torture, death, and dismemberment of civilians in El Salvador, the city of Hue shortly after it was destroyed by the Vietcong and American armies.  These are important tales, and they need to be told, but they seem somewhat inappropriate for a book purporting to be a light-hearted, funny, travel anthology. <br />The editor made a few other strange decisions in assembling this collection, and while one works, most don't.  I laud his attempt to include the work of some great writers, and this pays off: the selections by David Mamet, Anita Desai, Martin Amis, and John Updike are wonderful, and there's a poem by Al Purdy that every off-the-beaten-track traveler should read.  But the book also includes a number of extracts from works of fiction, which jars - part of the joy of travel stories is that they're *true*.  <br />Overall, the strength of some of the individual selections doesn't make up for the strange choices the editor has made. Look for it used, or check it out of the library.	2001-03-03
US	52836792	R3S3GYTQ1QZP7V	0689830513	652800812	Shadow Spinner (A Jean Karl Book)	Books	5	30	35	N	Y	A story as good as Shahrazad's	In Arabian Nights, Shahrazad is background, and the implications of her condition are never considered.  In Shadow Spinner, Fletcher has done a marvelous job of fleshing out the legendary storyteller and her situation.<br />Shadow Spinner starts 989 days after Shahrazad stopped the Sultan's murder of wife after wife by volunteering to marry him, then telling him stories so gripping, with cliffhangers so huge, that each one buys her another day of life.  At this point, Shahrazad has given the sultan three sons and is growing desperate - she's running out of tales to tell, for one thing.  Enter Marjan, who comes to the harem with her Aunt Chava, to sell things to the women.  Marjan worships Shahrazad, and has collected tales all her life; she knows one that Shahrazad doesn't know, and gets caught up in the intrigue of the sultan's harem as well as Shahrazad's own story.  <br />Marjan is a likeable character, and her experiences are great adventure.  Still, the true center of the tale is Shahrazad, and the unexpected stength of the book is its villains.  Unlike most YA and children's fantasy, the villains of this book are not all bad; Marjan in time comes to understand the reasons behind the actions of the sultan, his mother, and even her own mother, who hurt her badly years before.  <br />This is a fun story on the surface, with a lot of food for thought swimming just underneath.  It's a good read especially for young girls, and it should also appeal to adult fans of fantasy or children's lit.  A winner.	2001-02-02
US	52836792	RY55D84HPJYM2	1573226882	326942117	Fever Pitch	Books	5	6	8	N	N	For sports fans, obsessives, and everyone else	I assume this book would be a joyous, justifying experience for a devoted fan of any sport - &quot;I'm not alone!&quot; - and I can assure you that it's a fun, educational read for someone who has no interest in any sport.  It's a look at the way fanship can be created by, and in turn create, a person's life, and as such should be required reading both for fans themselves and for the people who can't understand them.  In other words, if you completely understand why an important win could turn your entire life around, or why you would have to miss your sister's wedding if it coincided with a game, Fever Pitch is for you.  And if you don't understand this at all, the book is also for you.  <br />Now, having said that, there are a few problems with this book for Americans who don't know much about football.  (You know, soccer, not American rules football.) If you don't know thing one about the game, you can still read the book, but you won't understand big chunks of it.  Hornby either never expected this book to be published in America, or he can't imagine an audience that isn't intimately familiar with football argot.  (And, having read the book, I'm betting on the latter.)  So you'll need either to read a book about football before you read Fever Pitch, or to have on call a person who knows football.  As it happens, I had both. I read the decent book The Miracle of Castel Di Sangro before Fever Pitch, so I knew about, for example, relegation and promotion.  And I happen to know a person who watches football.  And still I didn't get everything; what the heck is the Arsenal offside trap?  What was the Ibrox disaster?  (Double whammy, since apparently it also happened before I was born.)  What's the penalty spot?  I don't know, and Hornby didn't take the time to tell me.  So - not perhaps the best book to introduce you to football.<br />Still, this a fascinating book, a book that contains a wealth of self-knowledge for the obsessed and astonishing revelations for everyone else.  Read it.  If nothing else, you'll learn that the person in your life that you thought was as obsessed with team X as it is possible to be is merely a fly-by-night fan.	2001-01-31
US	52836792	R1M4YFUHQU16C9	0684836017	693377574	ONE YEAR OFF: Leaving It All Behind for A Round-the-World Journey with Our Children	Books	3	48	51	N	N	Is this all there is?	The idea behind David Cohen's One Year Off is either wildly appealling or profoundly horrifying; he and his family got rid of everything - house, cars, jobs, presumably even their dogs (something that irked me quite a bit) - packed up the husband, wife, three kids, and babysitter, and went around the world.  My reaction to this endeavor was that, crazy or brilliant, it *had* to produce an interesting story.  And reading One Year Off, you do get the feeling that that story is there.  But Cohen doesn't tell it.<br />What Cohen gives readers instead is email.  From various points in the trip, he sent email to his friends and family back home, and after he got back he collated them into One Year Off.  And while I'm sure the updates were engaging and interesting to his email list - who wants to read a chapter-long email about someone else's adventures? - they just aren't sufficient for a book.  Huge gaps are left in the tale (near the end of the book, nearly six months of the year off disappear, with no email updates or interpolation from Cohen) and lots of the details that stay-at-homes would find fascinating don't appear.  The chatty, superficial style of the writing is fine for email, but it leaves readers with slightly less than half a story.  The book even *looks* like an insufficient essay; the hardcover edition has wide leading and kerning and big margins and font - all the Freshman English Essay Extender tricks, but in book format.<br />Even more frustrating, Cohen doesn't appear to understand where his real story lies, in the family interactions and family experience of travel.  The real hero of the book, it emerges from between the lines, is his wife, who copes heroically and competently with their adventures.  (Devyani does most of the planning and takes most of the responsibility.  Cohen makes most of the mistakes.  When a kid gets damaged or lost, it always happens in Cohen's care.  When someone has a breakdown or snaps, it's usually Cohen.)  But we hear relatively little about Devyani, and not much about the kids, either.  Instead, Cohen chooses to write about mostly his own reactions to fairly commonplace destinations - France, Italy, Australia - as though he were producing a Fodor's Guide instead of a travel memoir.<br />In short, the idea of the book is fascinating, so much so that it is well worth reading, even as it is.  I love the idea of someone else packing up his family and going around the world - then telling me about it so I don't have to *do* it.  I just wish that a different author had had that idea, had taken this trip.  The book would've been marvelous in the hands of a writer who was a more careful observer, and who was willing to write a little more.	2000-12-22
US	52836792	RVPZ0M58ZO55T	0374455732	35813212	An Occasional Cow	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Mild country fun	An Occasional Cow tells the story of Imogene, who lives in New York City but spends all her summers at camp.  When her usual camp burns down, though, her parents are desperate to find a place to send her.  Aunt Bobo's farm in Iowa is their answer.<br />In Iowa, Imogene meets her cousins: Josephine, March, Annie Mae, and Nathan.  At first, there's some minor clashes between Josephine and Imogene, as the girls are quite similar.  As the summer progresses, the group becomes fast friends and shares adventures.  They spy on their neighbors, climb the laundry shute, and struggle to train their pigs to curtsey so they can win the annual pig talent show.  <br />An Occasional Cow is light, pleasant fare.  There isn't much plot, and what there is is far from compelling, but some of the characters are engaging, and the narrative moves swiftly.  There are also touches of humor.  Horvath often appears, in this book and in others, to be paying homage to Edward Eager's writing style (there are phrases in all of her books that are more or less direct quotes from Eager's work), so perhaps it isn't too surprising that Cow reads like an Eager book with the magic replaced by more mundane activities.  <br />The book's most serious flaw is its lack of any conflict.  Horvath tries, and then discards, one conflict after another, but she just doesn't seem to be comfortable having any of her characters struggle or fight.  For example, Imogene doesn't like being sent to camp - she'd prefer to stay in New York - and she hates the idea of going to Iowa.  With a set up like that, it seems likely that the story will feature either Imogene's attempts to teach her parents to let her stay home, or Imogene's gradual conversion to loving her summers away.  In fact, neither thing happens, because by the end of the second chapter, Imogene is entirely happy and settled into the country, without having changed her general attitude towards her summers at all.  The remainder of the conflicts are handled precisely the same way - they show up briefly and are fixed within 15 pages.<br />All in all, this book is a nice diversion, nothing more, but it might be pleasant for young readers who enjoy light and cheerful stories.	2000-12-21
US	52836792	RPLR1SPB6EKNQ	0689836015	835820403	Silent To The Bone	Books	5	57	63	N	Y	A new kind of Konigsburg	E.L. Konigsburg's writing has been migrating in style and subject matter; her latest work. Silent to the Bone, is ample proof of that.  It's also proof that she can write anything she wants to.  It is an excellent and intense book that explores family, friendship, love, and lies with Konigsburg's accustomed skill and intelligence.<br />The main character and narrator is Connor.  Branwell, Connor's best friend, has been accused of seriously injuring his baby sister Nikki, and has been unable to speak since she was hurt.  Connor visits Branwell in the detention center, where he realizes that he must first learn to communicate with his friend and then learn what really happened to Nikki.  Connor is a very intelligent kid, but still real and fully-fleshed.  In fact, the main characters of this book - Connor, Branwell, the au pair, and Connor's sister - are all very well developed, as are the relationships between them.<br />Although the subject is rather grim, the book itself is not.  The primary focus is actually Connor's detective work, the ways in which he goes about discovering what happened both in Branwell's house and in Branwell's head.  The plot is gripping and believeable, and the truths - about Branwell's sister, but many others as well - unfold naturally, without calling attention to themselves.  Although Konigsburg rarely makes blatent statements about emotions or complex relationships - people mostly don't, after all - she makes everything clear to the reader.  The family relationships, for example, are for the most part background, but so perfectly drawn that they are easy to see and understand.  <br />Although it's very different from her early works, like From the Mixed-Up Files of Mrs. Basil E. Frankweiler, Silent to the Bone is every bit as good.  It's certainly better than The View from Saturday, which was a Newbery book.  I would suggest that it is more of a YA book, for a slightly older audience than the age range suggests.  A nine-year-old could read and enjoy this, but he'd have to be a fairly mature one. <br />SIAS: Average boy uses wits, compassion, and help from sister to uncover the truth, protect the helpless, and save the day.  (Ands: 2, cliches: 3, ranking: ?)<br />(And a side note: *what* is with Konigsburg's obsession with the word epiphany?)	2000-11-02
US	52836792	R27HNHXQA540MO	0060291583	598391900	Year of the Griffin	Books	3	8	16	N	Y	Not Quite	In Year of the Griffin, Diana Wynne Jones returns to a world she's written about twice before - in the children's novel The Dark Lord of Derkholm, and in the adult(?) book The Tough Guide to Fantasyland.  It's a pity, too, because the books have been declining in quality as she goes.  The Tough Guide was a reasonably funny book for readers of fantasy and RPGers, Dark Lord was a rather standard, empty romp, and now - Year of the Griffin.  Which, unfortunately, has the characteristic Jones tone, but lacks the wit, the intelligence, and especially the cohesive plot of her best books.<br />The eponymous griffin is Elda, the daughter of the human magician Derk, and the year portion of the title refers to her freshman year at the magical university.  (Please, no comparisons to Hogwarts or to the Unseen University - it isn't in the same league as either.)  The university is seriously strapped for cash, and the members of Elda's class all have secrets - and most of them are being hunted for one reason or another.<br />The freshmen become a group, and together repel assassins, parents, and problems in ways that should be thoroughly hilarious, but somehow aren't. The feel of Jones' former works is present but the joy is not.  Much of the problem appears to be that the author is too fond of her characters; the gigantic but gentle Elda and her cohort occupy a lot of the space that should be plot.  The book feels stretched and very light, like a two-page essay made to look like an 8 page one.<br />It isn't necessary to begin this series at the beginning; if for some reason you want to, you can begin with Year of the Griffin.  But if you've never read Jones before, start with her children's classics - Archer's Goon, The Ogre Downstairs - or her best adult novel, Deep Secret.  It pains me to say this, because I love Jones' writing, but - unless you're a diehard fan, give Year of the Griffin a miss.	2000-10-13
US	52836792	R3CVSUUFVPS68Y	1885211554	168837340	Not So Funny When It Happened: The Best of Travel Humor and Misadventure (Travelers' Tales)	Books	3	48	49	N	Y	Unfortunately, it isn't so funny now, either	Not So Funny When It Happened seems like a real winner.  Edited by Tim Cahill, who has written a number of good adventure travel books, published by Travelers' Tales, who have the travel anthology down to a fine art, and full of travel humor, which we all know is wonderful.  How can this book not be great?<br />It might have something to do with the limited material available.  There isn't, relatively speaking, a lot of travel humor published, and much of it is written by just a few very talented authors.  Not So Funny does contain all the big names, but at one story apiece, they don't come close to filling up the book.  For the rest of the content, Cahill has to go to less known and unknown authors, or to those who don't usually write misadventure travel essays.  Unfortunately, Travelers' Tales has been down this road very recently, with There's No Toilet Paper on the Road Less Traveled; in other words, the best unknown stuff has already been used.  That leaves Not So Funny with a lot of marginal articles, plus a few good ones.<br />An additional caveat: if you like humor, you've probably read the big names - Bill Bryson, Tim Cahill, David Sedaris, Douglas Adams, Anne Lamott, Dave Barry - in this collection already.  And the essays included in Not So Funny aren't among their least-known works by any means.<br />In short, while I liked the concept behind this book, the reality of it leaves much to be desired.  It is, however, worth reading once or twice, especially for the devoted travel writing fan.	2000-09-28
US	52836792	R10CZDLFF47I8H	0446602922	601226365	Reclamation	Books	3	10	14	N	N	Mediocre first novel	Reclamation inspired neither love nor hate in me.  It was, for the most part, readable, but it wasn't especially involving.  There were typical first novel problems with the structure and pace of the book, and also some character problems.<br />Reclamation is about a far-distant future in which mankind has lost its homeworld to the rebellion of biological constructs and splintered into several different political or religious organizations.  Two of these are utterly dedicated to finding and reclaiming Earth: the Rhudolant Vitae and the Unifiers.<br />Our hero, Eric Born, was once a resident of a backwards, dying planet with a backwards, dying culture.  He escaped, with the help of some smugglers, and has spent the last ten years trying to forget about his home world.  But when the Rhudolant Vitae bring him in to communicate with a woman from that same world, Arla Stone, Eric becomes more involved than he has ever been.  Together, they must save their homeworld.<br />The plot is, unfortunately, rather standard, and poorly constructed.  There are several significant gaps, including one place where several chapters seem to be missing.  There are also many places where Zettel appears to think she's communicated something to the reader, but it's unclear what that might be.  On a personal level, I got rather tired of the &quot;everyone betrays everyone on Sundays planet&quot; aspect of things - much of the early part of the book is taken up with giving the reader a view of a specific character, then revealing in the next chapter that that view is incorrect, as the character is betraying [insert person or organization here].  However, most of the plot problems could be attributable to first novel syndrome, and I have every hope that Zettel will get the hang of tight plotting in her future novels.<br />I'm less sanguine about the problems in character development.  Both of the main characters - Eric Born and Arla Stone - are much less than realistic, slaves to a plot that demands them to be first one thing, then another.  One of the more ludicrous examples of characters-as-plot-slaves involves Arla's motivation.  She leaves her planet voluntarily, hoping to better her children's lives.  She at first is perfectly happy to remain in space, but three-quarters of the way in, she develops a sudden, overpowering urge to see her husband and children, even though she knows that her husband has most likely divorced her in her absence, which in her culture would mean that her children are also no longer hers.  Nonetheless, she drags Eric through a dangerous procedure for returning home, forcing him to destroy his most valuable and important belonging - his ship.  Arla gives Eric approximately four seconds to recover from the twin blows of losing his ship and returning to a home he hates, then charges ahead in search of her children.  When she finds them, she hugs them, then hears that her husband is divorced and remarried.  She immediately tells the kids 'I'm not your mother anymore, you need to go to your new mother now,' and walks away without a struggle or even much apparent regret.<br />It was very hard to like characters who acted so utterly nonsensically, and who behaved so irrationally.  And the rest of the book - the plot, the background, the writing - was at best uninspired, which left the book as a whole a rather unrewarding read.  Perhaps Zettel's future novels will be better.  I certainly hope so.	2000-09-28
US	52836792	R2BJ663Q7T4QCC	0312861567	334612263	Night Sky Mine	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Light reading, fun setting	In Melissa Scott's best novels, the background - the world setting - is  much more interesting than the plot.  This is especially true in Night Sky  Mine.<br />In the far-future universe of the book, programs are no longer  written, they're bred.  They've been equipped with replication, attack, and  defense code, and they live in the invisible world, preying on and  interbreeding with other programs to form new ones.  In the wildnets,  programs interbreed at will, and are subject to evolutionary pressure - the  wildnets are essentially a virtual ecosystem.  Unfortunately, this opens up  both the possibilities for useless or undesirable programs and the outside  chance that a superprogram will evolve.    <br />Ista, the main character, is  an apprentice hypothecary, one who harvests wild program and analyzes code.   She's lived for almost all her life in the coporation-owned Audumla  system.  She knows nothing of her antecedents; at age two, Ista was the  sole survivor of a mineship attack, and was adopted by her rescuer.   Without knowledge of her parents, she is not a legal citizen, so when she  meets two men who are investigating mineship disasters, she has to help  them.  Together, they expose an illegal wild breeding effort and put  themselves in danger.<br />The characters are likeable and fairly realistic.   Ista is a streetwise adolescent, but definitely still not fully adult, and  by far the most full-fleshed of the characters.  The relationships between  the characters are, at least in the first half, both believeable and  understandable.  (For example, Sein and Justin, the two men, fight the way  long term couples fight.)  In the second half, the characters are subsumed  by the plot, which is unfortunate.  <br />Good Scott novels leave you wanting  to know more about the world, the setting, and this one is no exception.   Although the plot is interesting enough to hold attention, it's really just  a framework for exploring the universe.  The book would have been better  had the plot been more complex - and the book quite a bit longer - but it's  a great SF read nonetheless.	2000-09-18
US	52836792	R2OD360TP2N156	0671559524	761882256	Five-Twelfths of Heaven	Books	5	13	13	N	N	One of Scott's best	Melissa Scott has played with a lot of conventional genres and SF story  elements, but her best work pushes some of the boundaries.  In  Five-Twelfths of Heaven, she creates an unusual - and successful - cross  between fantasy and science fiction, as well as continuing her tradition of  dealing with gender roles and society.<br />The universe of Five-Twelfths is a  fairly standard one in some ways.  The Hegemon, a widening empire of many  planets, is a tightly-controlled, autocratic society that places extreme  limits on women; women must be veiled at all times, aren't allowed to own  property or take legal actions, etc.  However, the fantasy element comes in  with the elements of star travel, which are much like magic, and especially  the magi, who are able to use spells to control both Purgatory (the  celestial, partially supermaterial state attainable by material creatures)  and Hell (the submaterial state).  The blending of the typical SF and  unusual fantasy elements make this world a unique and complete creation,  interesting in its own right.<br />The plot is also fairly good.   Five-Twelfths is the story of Silence, a woman in the very male-restricted  profession of pilot.  Caught up in circumstances beyond her control, she  makes an unusual alliance, finds herself pitted against the Hegemony, and  discovers that she has powers in excess of anything anyone expected.   <br />All in all, a satisfying read and much more interesting than is usual in  science fantasy blends.  Scott makes the most of her talents in this book -  pity it's out of print, but many libraries will have a copy.  <br />(NB:  Five-Twelfths of Heaven is the first in a trilogy - the sequels are Silence  in Solitude and The Empress of Earth - that should definitely be read in  order.)	2000-09-09
US	52836792	RUQ6UPL0BPA0V	076790415X	374953865	Spanish Lessons: Beginning a New Life in Spain	Books	4	20	24	N	N	Nice, but no flair	Something is missing from Spanish Lessons, some kind of energy or heart.   <br />Maybe what's missing is that Derek Lambert is too normal. The very best  travel essays and memoirs all have something in common - a narrator who is  eccentric, peculiar, a little bit different, whether it's something he  does, or just part of his personality.  Lambert is just an average guy  living in Spain; the crazy things that would happen to Bill Bryson don't  happen to him, and the crazy things that Tim Cahill would do aren't done by  him.    <br />Or maybe it's something stylistic  - Lambert is a fugitive from  journalism, and his writing still has that who-what-where-when bluntness,  tinged with an all-too-palpable struggle to add some literary flair.  That  makes this book rather less compelling than it might otherwise be - the  narrative just never picks you up and carries you along, and that is  essential in travel writing.  <br />It could even be that Lambert just hasn't  fallen in love with Spain the way Mayle did with Provence or Mayes did with  Tuscany.  Spanish Lessons lacks vivid local color and fascinating local  history, two things that can really make a living-abroad book.  Lambert  seems to be reluctant about giving in to Spain, too - he even quits his  Spanish lessons after a few weeks.  While this kind of restraint may be  understandable, it doesn't make for the sort of book that can transport you  to a new place.<br />Probably it's all those things.  Lambert has written an  essentially normal story - man buys house, man has problems with builders  and plumbing, man holds party, etc. - that just happens to be set in Spain,  and despite the generous descriptions of food and gardens and colorful  local characters, the pedestrian nature of the material comes through.   <br />While this is an interesting light read, and its flaws are minor,  it  just isn't entrancing.  Borrow this book, don't buy it, and look elsewhere  for truly hysterical or truly lyrical travel literature.	2000-09-06
US	52836792	R1WADK4HTQGDDI	0064400425	127097937	The Diamond in the Window (The Hall Family Chronicles)	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Thrills with a touch of Transcendentalism - and treasure	The Diamond in the Window is the start of Jane Langton's Concord series (for children, unlike much of her writing).  It is, without question, one  of the true classics of children's literature, fit to stand next to E.  Nesbit, Edward Eager, and J.K. Rowling.  <br />In The Diamond in the Window,  Eleanor and Edward discover a boarded up room in their attic - and with it,  a family mystery.  Their Uncle Ned and Aunt Nora disappeared, years ago,  from that attic room, and a few days later, so did a houseguest.  While  investigating the disappearances, they find a poem written on the stained  glass window of the attic, which leads them to adventure and  treasure.<br />One of Langton's great strengths is the amount of adult  references she can pack into a book without alienating her child audience.   Diamond is full of Transcendentalism and the history of Concord, but the  information is presented in a way that makes it accessible to readers of  all ages.  This is an ideal book for reading aloud to an older kid (6 - 10)  - sure to promote discussion, and able to hold interest for both adults and  children.	2000-09-01
US	52836792	RJZ1YBIEVNNY	1581800088	815108952	The Polymer Clay Techniques Book	Books	5	136	139	N	N	A techniques book to stand next to Roche's and Kato's works	Sue Heaser's Polymer Clay Techniques Book is the third, and most  inclusive, in a line of great technique-based PC books.  (The first two  were Nan Roche's The New Clay and Donna Kato's The Art of Polymer Clay.)  Unlike most project-based books, technique books are treasure troves of  information, hints, methods, and practice in the art of polymer clay, and  while the movice clayer may find more of use in a project book, all other  clayers will find technique books more useful.<br />The PCTB has a lively,  interesting format, and covers topics not previously discussed in any  detail in technique books - like miniature making (foods, etc.), which is a  frequent use of polymer clay.  Sue Heaser herself is a skilled and  versatile PC worker, and she's managed, in this book, to be as inclusive  and informative as a single PC author ever will be.  (I do continue to hope  for a technique book that has one editor and many authors, one for each are  of PC use.)  There is simply no way to go into detail on the nature of the  info in this book; there's too much of it.  Suffice to say that very few  clayers could read this book cover to cover and learn nothing new or  useful.<br />PC workers of all levels will find this an invaluable, useful  addition to the PC library.  Definitely one of the top five books currently  available on the subject, and a suitable gift for any clayer who doesn't  have it yet.	2000-09-01
US	52836792	RKL3HAWT669HZ	0440219124	43564381	Squashed	Books	5	10	13	N	Y	Gain a new perspective on pumpkins	Joan Bauer's books have a few things in common: a spirited, talented protagonist, an unusual quest, a family obstacle, and good triumphant.  In  Squashed, the first and, IMO, best of her books, this formula works to  great effect - you'll laugh, you'll rejoice, and you'll never see pumpkins  the same way again.  <br />Ellie Morgan has just two goals: to lose 20 pounds,  and to grow a pumpkin big enough to win the Annual Rock River Weigh-In, the  pumpkin festival to end all pumpkin festivals.  Unfortunately, a few things  stand in her way: her motivation-obsessed father, who despises agriculture  (&quot;the Absolute Dead-End of Existence&quot;), Cyril, the 35-year-old  grower (with a heart of evil) who usually wins the competition, and her  history teacher, who, strangely, thinks that school is more important.  On  Ellie's side she has her cousin Richard, baseball semi-star and pumpkin  spy, her Grandmother, a pillar of growing wisdom and strength, and her  friends.  <br />From the beginning, the reader knows it's all going to come  together in a major showdown at the Weigh-In.  But the question is - how  will Ellie make it that far?  And the answer is purely hilarious.   Sprinkled with humor and agriculture wisdom, Squashed is a highly appealing  novel for young adults and adults alike.	2000-09-01
US	52836792	RYCI0M2QQ38E8	0060284374	635720479	The Time Bike (Hall Family Chronicles)	Books	3	17	25	N	Y	Doesn't live up to the series	The Time Bike is the sixth book in Langton's loosely-connected Concord series for children.  Although it does contain references to the prior  novels, it can stand alone.  Unfortunately, it can't stand too well, with  or without its predecessors - The Time Bike is a disappointing entry in a  series that contains wonderful books like The Astonishing Stereoscope and  The Fledgling.  <br />Edward's new bike is stolen, but he recieves another one  from Prince Krishna, the deus ex machina of this series.  To Eddy's dismay,  the replacement bike is old-fashioned.  At first he's embarrassed to be  seen with it, but he feels better about it after he discovers it can travel  through time.  He and his associates have a few disjointed temporal  adventures and defeat the nefarious Prawn and Preek.  <br />The Time Bike  lacks both the intelligence and the magic that made the first four books in  this series so marvelous.  The other books, too, benefitted from a sense of  unforced depth and penetrating insights, while this book skims along the  surface and very deliberately does not look too long or too hard at  anything.<br />Over all, a rather depressing book, with flaws I hope will be  corrected in future entries in the series.  Jane Langton's children's  fiction is well worth reading - but please, start with The Diamond in the  Window.  Starting with The Time Bike is a disservice both to the series and  to the author.	2000-08-31
US	52836792	R2GV1W9TQZUBRN	0395276861	484108605	Imagination Greene	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A bit flat	Imagination Greene is a higher-word-count picture book based on  anachronism.  It's set in the early days of America, and in it, two  siblings make wishes.  One of them wishes for three strange contraptions -  a carriage that moves without horses, a machine that can carry voices long  distances, and a box that displays moving pictures.  His family laughs at  his wild imagination, and they nickname him Imagination Greene.  <br />While  young children might find the idea comical, they'd probably miss the  message therein.  And older children would be turned off by the  illustrations, which are unfortunately rather flat, and the format.  <br />Not  Ormondroyd's best book - try his juvenile fiction instead.	2000-08-27
US	52836792	RIN2HZTS9CHAT	0395276977	772898929	All in Good Time	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Wraps up, but doesn't equal, Time at the Top	All in Good Time is the sequel I never knew existed - to Time at the Top,  which was one of my favorite books as a child.  All in Good Time is written  in a style similar to Time at the Top, and it clears up a few of the  questions left at the end of the first book.<br />All in Good Time might be  called the &quot;after the elevator trip&quot; book - we pick up almost  exactly where Time at the Top left off, with Susan and Mr. Shaw emerging  into the 1880s.  Susan, Victoria, and Robert discover that it isn't as easy  as they thought it would be to make their parents fall in love, and their  time is limited on both sides.  At a highly inopportune moment, Cousin Jane  appears, and things get worse - then Mr. Sweeney reappears, and it seems  hope is gone.  However, the author himself takes a hand in the tale through  a rather improbably mechanism, and the day is saved.<br />All in Good Time  will be a welcome discovery to all those who were left wondering at the end  of Time at the Top.  The book does not stand on its own, though -  definitely read the other one first.	2000-08-27
US	52836792	R1152G02IW9EJ3	0874660637	89177775	Castaways on Long Ago	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Not precisely what the title implies	I expected this to be another of Ormondroyd's excellent time travel books, like Time at the Top.  Instead, it's a somewhat metaphysical tale, with  rather less meat than most of his books - but still quite enjoyable to  those who love old-style children's literature.<br />Three children - Linda,  Richard, and Dudley - are making a stay in the countryside.  When they spy  an island, they are told that the place is forbidden, as is the lake that  surrounds it; it's all the property of an old lady whose son died in a  freak accident on the lake 50 years ago.  The children name the island  &quot;Long Ago,&quot; and, led on by mysterious invitations, plot to get  there, where they find both answers and danger.  <br />About 75% of the book  concerns the kids' plans to get to the island, most of them abortive, which  probably accounts for the slowness of the novel.  And the book doesn't make  the transition into modern day as well as many of Ormondroyd's; the gender  roles become particularly grating after a while, as Linda plays Goodie Two  Shoes to Richard's single-minded obsession and Dudley's more rounded  character.  <br />Still, the book is good fun in an old-fashioned vein, and  Ormondroyd fans will probably enjoy it quite a bit.	2000-08-27
US	52836792	RNR03YR548R4E	0451456971	990493121	Fine Prey	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Deceptive depth	Halfway through reading Fine Prey, I started wondering: when do we get to,  you know, the *plot*?  It seemed like I was reading layer upon layer of  introductory material, exposition - and as it's a relatively slim book, I  could not figure out when Fine Prey would get around to the action.  <br />In  fact, the exposition is the action.  Fine Prey is a fascinating novel - a  science-fiction/linguistics thriller, if there is such a thing.  If not,  Scott Westerfeld has invented it.  Although the missing plot elements, like  conflict, mean the novel is a bit slow in places, each chapter is driving  the main character, Spider, towards the linguistic resolution.  <br />Just as  interesting as the central premise is the world in which Spider lives.  In  Fine Prey, Earth is a colony world; we've been taken - bloodlessly, I would  imagine - by the remote, peculiar, and mostly benevolent Aya.  They've  given us technologies that utterly exceed our meager abilities, and we've  succumbed to their patronage.  In most SF novels, that would be the source  of the plot, the conflict - in this one, it's the merest background.  More  a part of Spider's life is the mechanics of the Hunt, a popular game born  out of Earth's old equine sports and the Aya's new technologies.  Though  the detailed descriptions of individual hunts are a bit gruesome, there  aren't many of them, and the rest of the Hunt world is fairly  interesting.<br />Overall, Fine Prey, which seems so light and insubstantial  for most of the reading, is an involving book with a gripping premise and  an unusual and well-described world.  I think most SF fans would be glad to  read this book.	2000-08-26
US	52836792	R270KPPJCT6ACE	0312861761	562507215	The Moon is a Harsh Mistress	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Heinlein's best.  That simple.	In The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress, Heinlein achieves the perfect blend of SF and social commentary.  The plot is tight, the characters are gripping, and  the society is well-thought-out and intersting.<br />The moon has been used as  a slave colony for generations - sufficient that our hero, Manuel, was born  free.  But even though many of the citizens are technically free, the  society is not; everything is run by the Warden, on the moon, and the Lunar  Authority back on Earth.  Manuel gets caught up in the planning and  enacting of a revolution to free the moon.<br />The characters are simply  incredible.  Heinlein's early work had entirely one-dimensional characters,  but in Moon, he's created three excellent main characters, one decent main  character, and a solid supporting cast.  The real powerhouse character is  Mike, the sentient computer who is the secret weapon in the lunar  revolution - he's as believeable as an AI character can get.<br />Not only is  the plot great, not only are the characters wonderful, but the background  and setting of the novel are worth a look.  Heinlein has done very good  work creating a history and society on the moon, and it is both  interesting, unlike some of his earlier societies, and believeable, unlike  some of his later ones.  He's even done a very nice job of creating  vernacular and slang for lunar speech.<br />In short, this is a stellar book.   There are few books this good in the SF cannon, and anyone with any  interest in the genre must read it.  (If you've missed it, I envy you -  what a wonderful ride you have in store.)	2000-08-25
US	52836792	RESIJ30TUU3DE	0345394801	383642995	Flatlander: The Collected Tales of Gil "The Arm" Hamilton	Books	5	24	26	N	N	SF/Mystery at its best	SF/Mystery is one of the hardest subgenres to write convincingly - as Niven points out in his introduction to this book, SF/Mystery, to work,  must follow the rules of both genres, which makes for quite the writing  challenge.  But in Flatlander, the collected stories about Gil &quot;The  Arm&quot; Hamilton, Niven does a masterful job of meshing science,  technology, and mystery.<br />These stories were written over quite a range of  time, and that's obvious, in both the social and moral overtones and the  writing itself.  However, the quality is fairly consistent, and it ranks up  there with the very best Niven work.  Most important, the puzzle aspect -  the mystery component - is very well done, in every case; the mysteries are  fair (the reader could solve them with the information given) and good (the  reader has to work fairly hard to solve them before the main character  does).  <br />It's a pity there aren't more Gil Hamilton stories; I'd love to  see another book of these.  Whether you're a fan of mystery, or SF, and  especially if you're a fan of both, you'll love Flatlander.	2000-08-24
US	52836792	R2QLL084DOQVTN	0345381688	280781003	Crashlander	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A strange hybrid, but the stories are great	Crashlander contains the collected stories of Beowulf Shaeffer, the man who, in Niven's Known Space, discovered the core explosion and, as it turns  out, did a number of other things as well.  Beowulf is an interesting  character, and although not every story is great, most are very good and  quite worth reading. <br />The stories were written over a range of time,  which is obvious from the internal differences - the social and moral  aspects of Beowulf's world change quite a bit from first to last.  And the  &quot;binder&quot; material - the stuff Niven interpolated between the  stories to bring them together, make them more cohesive - is only  moderately successful.  Frankly, Beowulf's past is just more interesting  than his present.  But the stories themselves are truly gripping, and as a  short story collection, this book really works.<br />One tiny caveat: the book  as a whole implies certain things about the origins of Louis Wu (of  Ringworld fame) that contradict the beginning of the Ringworld series  itself.  Doesn't matter, of course, unless you're a real stickler for  detail.<br />Over all, a book well worth reading for those into Niven or his  Known Space.	2000-08-24
US	52836792	R1F5LXP785F9IZ	0152020683	28356414	Half Magic	Books	5	79	80	N	N	Still magic after all these years	I first read Half Magic when I was seven, courtesy of the El Segundo Public Library, and twenty years later, I still love it.  My abiding love  of children's literature probably began right here, in a book that has  everything - plot, humor, intelligence, and fabulous characters.<br />Half  Magic obeys the rules of great magic books that are carefully delineated by  the main characters in the first chapter.   (See what I mean about  intelligence and wit?) The magic has its own rules, which they must  discover.  They thwart the magic.  Then the magic thwarts them.  If it's a  formula, it's one Edward Eager developed, and it works - you don't want to  stop reading, from King Arthur's court to a highly magical ending.  (And I  have no intention of telling you where that is.)<br />Even though the plot is  exceptional, it's the characters that truly make the book.  The four  children are clearly *people* - it's easy to imagine meeting them on the  street or in a park - and not merely characters on a page.  And even though  the book is set in the 1930s, and was written in the 1950s, the kids still  resonate.  We all know, or were, Martha - &quot;Martha was the youngest,  and very difficult.&quot; Likewise with Jane and Katherine.   &quot;Katherine *would* keep boasting about what a comfort she was, and how  docile, until Jane declared she would utter a piercing shriek and fall over  dead if she heard another word about it.&quot;  <br />This first book in  Eager's loosely-intertwined series is a masterpiece of children's  literature.  Children and adults alike will love Half Magic.  Start here -  and remember, to read one is to want them all.<br />(NB: the quotes used here  came from my memory - I checked them before I submitted the review, of  course - and normally my memory is not the best.  That should tell you  something about the strength of this book, or at least the impression it  made on me.)	2000-08-23
US	52836792	R2IV31TX2MLW7S	0740706721	470651737	I Hated, Hated, Hated This Movie	Books	4	172	175	N	Y	Some great reviews - and some decent ones	I Hated, Hated, Hated This Movie is a great title, but it doesn't really sum up this book.  It's a collection of reviews of movies rated between  zero and two stars - and if you know Roger Ebert's ratings system, you'll  know that two stars isn't by any means a total pan.  And that's where the  book gets weak.<br />The zero to one star reviews are truly funny; it's quite  amusing to read the distillation of bitterness and hatred that comes from  forcing a movie lover to sit through a terrible movie.  On another level,  it's also quite amusing to try to imagine how these movies ever got made in  the first place - some of them leave you wondering how it is that the  producers did not notice they didn't have a script until after shooting  started.  Others leave you wondering why the actors and director didn't  take the easy way out and simply kill themselves rather than complete the  movie.<br />Unfortunately, the book is padded with reviews of some movies that  it appears Ebert only disliked.  And mild dislike doesn't give rise to the  same kind of humor as loathing does.  Had these reviews been cut, the book  would probably have been 50 pages shorter, and it would have been a riot  from beginning to end, albeit one that left you with a serious  disinclination to go to the movies.  (Or, depending on the kind of person  you are, with a strong *inclination* to head for the video rental  store.)<br />If the editor, author, or publisher truly felt the need to extend  the book beyond the despised movies, it would have been much more gripping  and entertaining to include a few four-star reviews - maybe one per  chapter? - to show what the other end of the spectrum looked like.  That  would also have staved off the erroneous impression this book can leave -  that either Ebert hates everything or every movie is terrible.  <br />My  advice: read it, but not too quickly.  There's a limit to how much badness  the human constitution can stand.  Remember, Ebert didn't see all these  movies at one sitting, either.	2000-08-23
US	52836792	R1AB4J4T1PLA4M	0152020705	617914864	The Time Garden	Books	5	19	20	N	N	You'll never look at thyme the same way again	In this sequel to Knight's Castle, the four kids - Roger, Ann, Eliza, and Jack - are together again, this time staying at the house of a distant  relative, Mrs. Whiton.  Mrs. Whiton just happens to have a rather  extraordinary garden, which includes a sundial (inscribed &quot;Anything  can happen...when you've all the time in the world&quot;), every variety of  thyme known to man (except common), and a Natterjack.  Naturally, time  travel adventures ensue.<br />The Natterjack is a character reminiscent of the  Psammead in E. Nesbit's The Five Children and It - he's an inherently  magical creature with a great deal of power and the potential for good  advice, but also a difficult personality with an ego and a temper.  He's  also a frog.  And he gets the children into no end of trouble - like when  he sings &quot;Rule Britannia&quot; in an American pub during the  Revolution.<br />And Roger, Ann, and Eliza are just as nifty as they were in  Knight's Castle.  Jack, however, features rather less in The Time Garden,  as he's plunged into the throes of adolescence and spends most of his time  making phone calls.  (Isn't it good to know that some things never  change?)<br />The children, with the help of a little thyme, visit the ride of  Paul Revere (with singing Natterjack), a stop on the Underground Railroad,  and Louisa May Alcott's Little Women, among other adventures.  <br />The book  is fun, and funny, and you will have new feelings for thyme when you're  finished with it.  Lots of children would enjoy this book, and those adults  who like children's literature will love The Time Garden.	2000-08-23
US	52836792	R9MCFFPXT9XBW	067172066X	676031600	The Warrior's Apprentice	Books	5	79	82	N	N	Miles kicks off	The Warrior's Apprentice is the third book in Vorkosigan series - if  you're going by internal chronology - and the first book with Miles as the  main character.  Although Shards of Honor is excellent, and Barrayar is  quite good, Warrior's Apprentice is where this series really takes  flight.<br />Miles is one of the classic characters of modern SF - Bujold has  created someone who is exceptional in many ways (brilliant strategist,  painfully intelligent, lucky as hell) and who is still likeable, because  she allows him to have flaws and weaknesses - quite a few of them, in fact.   Unlike, for example, Honor Harrington in David Weber's series, Miles is  fully three-dimensional, and such a fascinating guy that it would be  interesting to read *anything* about him.  <br />In Warrior's, Miles'  character is still developing.  He's on a trip to his mother's homeworld  after failing the entrance exam for the Imperial Military Academy when he  decides to intervene in a Betan police problem.  This leads, inevitably, to  his involvement in another system's civil war.  Will Miles be able to hold  together his fictious group of mercenaries, keep track of his prisoners,  earn enough money to redeem his mortgaged land, win the girl, and get back  to Beta Colony before his parents find out what he's doing?  (He gets  himself into situations like this all the time - that's Miles for  you.)<br />In my opinion, the best Vorkosigan books are those that focus on  character development rather than plot - ones like Shards of Honor,  Warrior's Apprentice, and Memory.  In these, the plot is still strong, but  it is interwoven with the building of a new character or a new aspect of a  familiar one, and that is where Bujold really shines.  <br />If you're just  starting out with Lois Bujold, Warrior's Apprentice is a good place to  start, despite its chronological position.  And if you haven't read this  book yet, I envy you - you've got quite a treat in store.	2000-08-23
US	52836792	R2P0TTWXK60XOH	0671720147	442760647	The Vor Game	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Will Miles survive?  Will his commanding officers?	In The Vor Game, Miles has graduated from the Imperial Academy, and has  been rewarded with a choice posting indeed.  Well, okay, it's one of the  worst postings on record.  He wanted ship duty.  He's been sent to Kyril  Island, lovingly called Camp Permafrost, to predict the weather.  From  almost his first moments on the island, he's on a collision course with the  commanding officer, which leads to a snowy showdown that Miles both wins  and loses.<br />Back at home (well, at least his hometown), Miles is recruited  into Imperial Security - the infamous ImpSec - and sent off on a mission  involving Admiral Naismith.  Unfortunately, things go wrong, and soon he's  wrapped up in an Imperial problem, flying by the seat of his pants and  breaking rules and orders with practiced elan.  (Well, after all, this is a  familiar position for him.)<br />The Vor Game is one of my favorite of the  Vorkosigan series; it is, really, the last book of Miles' youth.  It is an  award-winner, and deservingly so; the characters continue to develop, which  is quite the challenge in the fourth book of a series, and the plot is fun.   Bujold writes SF with a light hand, and interjects a great deal of humor.   It's rare to find an SF writer who knows how to make us laugh.<br />Read the  Warrior's Apprentice, at minimum, before you read this - but read it.	2000-08-23
US	52836792	R2Y3R2T4Y76VA3	0140311777	153673464	Absolute Zero: Being the Second Part of the Bagthorpe Saga	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Hysterical.  Classic.  Perfect.	Absolute Zero is the second book of the Bagthorpe Saga, and in my opinion, it's the best, although the first four in the series are all exceptional.   I loved these books as a child, and I love them now as an adult - it's a  pity they are out of print in the US.  (They are, however, still available  in the UK, and US readers can order them online from amazon.co.uk, among  other online shops.  Believe me, the extra shipping is more than worth  it.)<br />Like Ordinary Jack before it, Absolute Zero chronicles the lives of  the eccentric, lunatic Bagthorpes.  Competition madness overtakes the  family after the urbane Uncle Parker wins a Caribbean trip for two.  Better  yet, while Uncle Parker and Aunt Celia take their trip, their daughter  Daisy, the world's only destructively creative four-year-old, is left with  the Bagthorpes.  Hilarity inevitably ensues, in the shape of Daisy-induced  disasters, police involvement, and unfortunate prizes.<br />The dry humor and  intelligent wit of the early books in the Bagthorpe series raise them above  their genre, and the books are as fresh and entertaining now as fifteen  years ago.  Any adult who still knows how to laugh would enjoy these  novels, and as for children - well, the danger isn't that they won't like  it.  The danger is that they will start tearing the labels off canned goods  in their parents' pantries, in hopes of recreating the joy of the  series.<br />(NB: The last few books of the series - I believe it's now up to  seven or eight books - are not at all worth reading.  The first four in the  saga are musts, and true Bagthorpe fans will probably enjoy book five and  even book six, but after that, don't bother.  Spare yourself the pain of  seeing one of the best humorous series of our time go to pot.)	2000-08-22
US	52836792	R3OIVTW8TP657X	0823002780	848432614	The Art of Polymer Clay: Designs and Techniques for Making Jewelry, Pottery, and Decorative Artwork	Books	5	94	96	N	N	A Classic Technique-Based Book	Donna Kato is known throughout the polymer clay world for her tools, her  techniques, and her art.  This book is an excellent distillation of all  she's learned and invented about polymer clay work.<br />Unlike many of the PC  books on the market, Kato doesn't spend any time on projects.  There are  many, many techniques - Ballinese Filligree, the Clichy Rose Cane, several  different types of faux materials, just as examples - but she doesn't tell  you how to apply them or use them.  This is fabulous for those who can use  the techniques as springboards, and makes the book far more useful than any  project-based book could be.  <br />However, the technique-based approach is a  little intimidating for the novice clayer; I bought this book a month after  I cracked open my first packet of Sculpey III, and there wasn't much in The  Art of Polymer Clay that was useful to me.  Four months later, I started to  get into it, and now this is one of my favorite PC books.<br />The basic  information is extensive, but some of it, like the types of clay section,  is out-dated.  However, as I've said, this isn't the most helpful book for  the beginning clayer - The Polymer Clay Techniques Book is probably that -  so the front material is a bit beside the point.  (However, everyone should  read the whole book, as there is fabulous information in all the  chapters.)<br />If I had to (horrors!) reduce my collection of PC books to  just five, The Art of Polymer Clay would be one of them.  It is a great  book for any clayer at any level - one of the classics of the PC library.	2000-08-21
US	52836792	R2Q7JS90N5C5PF	0767903854	430278994	In a Sunburned Country	Books	5	5	8	N	Y	Bryson Finds Love at Last	For most Americans - and probably for most Europeans, too - Australia is a big, roughly circular blank spot on the map.  For us, it's an  easy-to-defend territory in Risk, and the source of many a bad Down Under  joke - a country that's gone to another planet, but occasionally sends back  bands and boomerangs.<br />Bill Bryson doesn't see Australia like that.   Strange to say - *very* strange, if you've read his other travel books -  Bryson actually seems to like, even love, Australia.  He certainly relishes  traveling through it and revels in the odd little facts he unearths.  This  makes for a touching travel book rather different than his previous works.  <br />In a Sunburned Country is actually extremely different than, for  example, A Walk in the Woods.  The primary focus of Walk was the humor and  the experiences, not the Applachian Trail, and certainly not America or  Americans.  In Sunburned, Bryson has produced a much more straightforward  travelogue more concerned with little museums and cheap hotels than with  the inside of his own head.  It's still funny, of course, and it's still  got a lot of Bryson in it - his reactions to the museums (he loved every  one of 'em), his reactions to the hotels (if you're going to Darwin, better  check out this book first), and his inexplicable ability to find danger and  injury in places where other people are fine (the dogs in the park, petrol  in the outback).<br />This is by no means an in-depth exploration of  Australia; in fact, it could be subtitled &quot;Australia: Only the Good  Parts.&quot;  Bryson just gives hints about the darker side of modern  Australians (a man in a train who says that all Aborogines should be  hanged), then hastily retreats to another museum.  It's as though he's  reluctant to let his fantasy of Perfect Australia be tainted.  <br />However,  it's engrossing both as armchair travel and as humor, and that, as we all  know, is a perfect combination.  And if the government of Australia owesBryson a hearty thank-you for this book, so what?  <br />(One last note: he's  done a book and a half with Stephen Katz, who is in his own way delightful.   But if Bryson has any sense at all, he'll take Alan Sherwin along on his  next book trip.  Bryson is always better with a companion, a foil, and  Sherwin is perfect  for that.  In addition, Sherwin doesn't appear to hold  a grudge, which is essential for someone who is traveling with Bryson.  In  Sunburned, many of the funniest and best bits involve Sherwin, even though  he's in less than a fifth of book.)	2000-08-21
US	52836792	R3K60MA95KFYU6	067165604X	816543640	Ethan of Athos	Books	5	56	58	N	N	A Great Book If You're Willing to Look Past Miles	Okay, let's get the worst out of the way first - this book doesn't feature  Miles Vorkosigan, although there are a few references to him.  It doesn't  feature Aral or Cordelia, either.  But the main characters are still  wonderful Bujold creations, the plot is tight and gripping, and the  mechanics are first-rate.<br />The protagonists in this novel are Elli Quinn  (later featured rather extensively in Miles books) and the eponymous Ethan  (Urquhart).  They're fun, they're smart, they're what you'd expect from a  Bujold character - even though they aren't Vorkosigans.<br />The story is  fast-moving and fascinating, and it falls into that elusive subgenre,  mystery science fiction - so hard to write and write well that there's  hardly any out there.  But Ethan of Athos follows all the rules of the  subgenre, and so reveals a lot about the Vorkosigan universe its inner  workings.  <br />If you've enjoyed Bujold's other novels, and you can cope  with the concept of a Miles-less book, this one is for you. (And, look -  she doesn't write fast enough to occupy even the slowest reader full-time.   So think of this as a welcome interlude between Miles books.)  And if you  enjoy good characters in good SF, or especially mystery SF, this one is  definitely for you.	2000-08-21
US	52836792	R96OXU2V13MZA	1579901689	292326940	The Weekend Crafter: Polymer Clay: 20 Weekend Projects Using New & Exciting Techniques	Books	5	43	43	N	Y	A fun project-oriented book	Irene Dean's book is a welcome addition to the polymer clay library.  The book teaches through projects, by incorporating different techniques in  each, and that makes it more valuable than a random selection of 20  projects would be.  I found that although I did not want to do every  project in the book, I am exploring the techniques and ideas presented in  my own designs.<br />The projects are easy to medium difficulty, and most  require little to no sculpting or drawing talent, which is a blessing for  those of us without artistic skill.  Most of the projects do require extra  tools, embellishments, or finishers in addition to the basic polymer clay  supplies - among the &quot;extras&quot; you'll need are acryllic paints,  metallic leafing, mica or embossing powders, and glitter.  It's a nice way  to demonstrate the use of these frequent additions to the polymer clay  workshop, but it can be expensive or difficult for beginners in the  medium.<br />The lessons in The Weekend Crafter span a range of uses - there  are jewelry projects, but also home decorations, notebooks, mugs, and other  items.  This sometimes necessitates more bases or findings than just beads  alone might, but it really helps to expand claying horizons.   Unlike many  of the other PC books out right now, there's very little in The Weekend  Crafter about caning, so this is not the book for the strictly  millefiori-lover or caner. <br />The book is a softcover, but the binding is a  lot sturdier than some of the other PC books available.  There are many  full-color pictures; the lessons are graphic-intensive, and there's a small  but fun gallery section as well.<br />Overall, this is a fun book, and it's  especially nice to see such a reasonably-priced PC book on the market.  I  think most PC workers would be happy to have this.	2000-08-21
US	52836792	R2RYY7U8RHC9OW	087605193X	414015212	Adopting the Racing Greyhound	Books	5	60	60	N	N	Start Here	If you're thinking about adopting a retired racing Greyhound,there are many great resources for you on the web and in hardcopy. This book is probably the best of them.  It is inclusive and informative on virtually all topics of general interest to Greyhound owners, and is a good starting place for more specialized Greyhound-related topics.  (In addition, any adoption group will be more inclined to regard you favorably if you've already read this book!)<br />Adopting the Racing Greyhound covers everything from track life to pet health.  With this book in your hand and your mind, you can avoid some of the pitfalls of Greyhound ownership, and locate and develop the best relationship possible with your very own needlenose. There's simply no other resource available in any format that can provide such a good overview of Greyhounds in pet life.<br />This will not be the only book you'll need once you have your hound.  (You may want to purchase, for example, Care of the Racing Greyhound by Blythe for medical topics, and Playtraining Your Dog by Burnham for training topics.)  But it will teach you enough about hounds to decide if one is truly right for you, and it will help you get through the first days, weeks, and months of ownership, too.<br />In short, this book is a necessity for every Greyhound owner or owner wannabe...  END	2000-08-21
US	52836792	R2MNLSKN5ZL1SF	1859672981	276089385	Polymer Claywork (New Crafts)	Books	4	9	10	N	Y	A Pretty Project-Based Book with Excellent Front Matter	Polymer Claywork is a project-based book, but what is most interesting  about it is its front matter.  The projects themselves range from fun to a  bit dull.<br />The book includes both a section I've not seen in another PC  book - a short history of PC - and a lovely gallery.  The history was  fascinating for me, since I'm rather new to PC, and answered one of my  long-standing questions (what does Fimo mean?).  And the gallery was,  sadly, too short, but inclusive and inspiring.  Those two items alone were  worth the lower-end price of the book.<br />The projects themselves, while  attractive, don't always include new techniques or new ideas.  They range  from extremely basic to somewhat complex.  Most of them are of the home  decorating or knickknack variety, with a few basic jewelry or bead ideas.   One interesting facet of these lessons is the mixed-media aspect; there's  rather more of this in Polymer Claywork than in most books - projects like  tassels and hand mirrors, for example, with both PC and non-PC components  (other than findings).<br />This book is hardcover and stitch-bound, which is  really nice.  I haven't had it very long, but I suspect it will hold up to  standard use better than many of the PC books available.  It's also  attractively priced; many of the softcover project-based PC books are more  than this one.<br />A nice, attractive book, and one I'm happy to have, though  perhaps not essential in a PC library.	2000-08-21
US	52836792	R1I7980YZ3A2YI	0374375526	667685427	Tibet Through the Red Box (Caldecott Honor Book)	Books	5	54	57	N	Y	A gorgeous *adult* book in children's book format	Tibet: Through the Red Box is an entrancing and beautiful book.  However, it is one of the new subgenre of &quot;children's books for adults&quot; -  it may look like a picture book, but it is *not* suitable for young  children.  <br />Tibet is very like Maus: A Survivor's Tale, the award-winning  graphic novel that bears only superficial resemblance to a standard graphic  novel.  In Tibet, as in Maus, a son tells his father's story - and what a  story it is.  Peter Sis' father was a documentary filmmaker who was hired  by the Chinese to make a documentary about the building of a bridge in a  remote province - and instead ended up losing his crew and witnessing the  taking of Tibet.  <br />Sis does a remarkable job of transmitting to the  reader his father's love of Tibet and its mysteries and magic.  Using tales  his father told him, he creates an image of a dream land, a fantasy land,  where weird and wonderful things happen.  It's impossible not to love Sis'  vision of Tibet - and therefore, impossible not to be sad that the Chinese  take it.<br />I've said that the book is not for children, and I stand by  that.  However, I do believe that a child who is 6 or older could enjoy  this book, provided it was read to him by an adult, and provided that that  adult could cushion and explain some of the harder truths, not to mention  some of the blending of fantasy and fact. <br />Peter Sis' father's story is  incredible, and the book is marvelous.  Any adult who loves books or  history would love Tibet: Through the Red Box.	2000-08-21
US	52836792	R3QBH7BLCHP1L0	0316777722	491689172	Me Talk Pretty One Day	Books	5	34	38	N	Y	David Sedaris has figured it out	In his previous collections, Barrel Fever, Holidays on Ice, and Naked, Sedaris' works have been sometimes hilarious, sometimes disturbing and  grim, and sometimes all three.  His best works, though, were always the  funny essays based on his own life.  (Fortunately, he's weird enough that  this works.)  And in Me Talk Pretty One Day, he shows that he's realized  where his strength lies.<br />The first portion of Me Talk Pretty, prosaically  named One, contains more of his reminisces about his family.  These stories  are often funny, usually with an underlying tension, and their conclusions  are usually wry or bittersweet.  &quot;Go Carolina&quot; is a perfect  example of these, talking about Sedaris' years in speech therapy as a  child, and suggesting that perhaps his parents, teachers, and therapists  were trying to fix something other than just a speech impediment.  <br />Deux,  the other half of the book, concerns Sedaris' life in France, especially  his attempts to learn French.  Most of the essays in Deux are truly  hysterical.  They're the kind of thing where, after a few minutes of  reading, your eyes are tearing up from lack of oxygen and your loved one  has awoken from a sound sleep (probably because the bed was vibrating with  your laughter) and is threatening to call an ambulance or suffocate you  with a pillow.  <br />Deux has attractions in addition to the humor in the  stories.  It's nice to see that Sedaris can write - and write well - about  something other than his screwy childhood and screwed-up history.  Sooner  or later Sedaris is bound to run out of humorous anecdotes about his past,  and Me Talk Pretty is an indication that when he does, he'll still have  good stuff to write about - his present.  In fact, if this book is anything  to go by, Sedaris' works will only improve on that day - in the distant  future, of course - when he puts the past in, well, the past.  <br />(Caveat:  do not read this book in public places unless you enjoy looking like  someone with a major nervous system disorder and a bronchial problem.   Books like this are best enjoyed either by yourself or in the company of  people who have to love you, no matter how strange you look.)	2000-08-10
US	52836792	R33F8NW3SYSP91	0937274747	292082076	Creative Clay Jewelry: Extraordinary, Colorful, Fun Designs To Make From Polymer Clay	Books	4	40	41	N	Y	Colorful projects ranging from basic to challenging	Creative Clay Jewelry is one of the many books that attempt to cover polymer clay work from the very basics to quite advanced.  While other books are probably more successful at that (Sue Heaser's Polymer Clay  Techniques Book, for example), Creative Clay Jewelry has some good projects  and solid information, and would be quite useful to the beginning to  intermediate clayer.<br />It's unfortunate that there's no real indication of  level of difficulty in the projects; they don't follow any logical  progression.  Some of the early projects use very basic techniques only -  jelly rolls, marbling - which could probably be discussed in the  introduction section.  However, just a few projects in, there's a geometric  pattern that would be quite difficult and frustrating to do as your third  or fourth PC project.  I'd advise careful consideration when selecting a  project from this book.<br />Dierks does provide a much more detailed  ingredient list, including things like findings and clay amounts, which  other books tend to skip.  She even specifies particular brands and colors,  but it isn't necessary to adhere to them.<br />On a more personal note, I got  less use out of this book than most of my PC books, simply because the  projects were very bright, busy, and colorful - and that's very far from my  style.  But for those who love the casual, cheerful look that polymer clay  can provide, this book might well be great.	2000-07-20
US	52836792	R12GK24ZCA15RT	0590930028	655763976	No, David!	Books	5	22	22	N	Y	Destined to be a classic picture book	No, David! has, at its core, a concept we all can relate to: kids spend a lot of time hearing the word no - usually for very good reasons.  In No, David!, we follow David's adventures in badness, and everyone, kids and  adults alike, can relate.<br />The illustrations make this book.  The style is  reminiscent of the kinds of drawings a child David's age might do - with a  lot more detail and depth, of course.  The bright, colorful pictures are  easy to understand and very attractive for adults and children both.<br />This  is a great book for reading aloud.  It's especially fun to read to a group  of kids - the procedings usually take on a confessional tone, with kids  solemnly noting &quot;I do that,&quot; or &quot;My brother does that all  the time.&quot;<br />Enjoy!	2000-07-20
US	52836792	R38G3PM5G3ZIW	1561706361	219189585	Natural Nutrition for Dogs and Cats: The Ultimate Diet	Books	1	209	247	N	Y	A travesty worth no stars at all	Schultze's book attempts to provide &quot;the ultimate pet diet,&quot; and it may be that raw or natural foods are wonderful for pets.  But her book contains so much misinformation that it's impossible to rely on it at  all.<br />On page 4, while summarizing the results of a study she does *not*  provide any citations for, she states:<br />&quot;The cats that were fed  cooked food swiftly deteriorated in health until, by the third generation,  they could no longer reproduce.&quot;  <br />Unless there is something she's  not telling us - like that the cats were also deprived of critical  nutrients - this can't be true.  If it was, we wouldn't have to worry about  spaying and neutering pet cats - we'd have to worry about bringing them  back from the edge of extinction. Virtually all commercial cat foods are  cooked, whether kibble or canned, and many cats eat nothing else their  whole lives - even for generations - and yet somehow we still have  cats.<br />On page 5, she states:<br />&quot;When the first- and  second-generation cooked-food cats were placed on a raw food diet, it took  four generations for their line to recover from the ill effects of  consuming cooked food.&quot;<br />Unlikely.  For any diet to have an effect as  strong as the one she describes beyond the second generation after  cessation of use, it would have to cause *genetic* change.  Feline genes  aren't so susceptible to mutation that a diet of good food that is cooked  in a normal way - food like humans eat - could cause it, and if genetic  change did occur, the cat line wouldn't have recovered.  <br />These are just  two examples, culled from the first pages of the book, but there are many  others.  I simply do not feel comfortable trusting my pet's health to a  diet based on such unreliable information.	2000-05-13
US	52836792	R2YI4XSEGPPUZQ	0304350303	768630148	Making Polymer Clay Jewelry	Books	4	34	36	N	Y	Lovely, detailed book, but poorly produced	Making Polymer Clay Jewelry is a wonderful book for those who work with the medium or aspire to. The book is well-written and a lot of fun; it would be enjoyable for anyone who is not already expert at working with  polymer clay.   <br />The content is quite good.  The introduction covers  tools, materials, and basic techniques; the remainder of the book is  projects.  The twenty projects show polymer clay's versatility and utility  very well, and the instructions are clear and detailed.  The photographs  are plentiful and attractive, and the frequent illustrations contribute a  great deal to the book's clarity. <br />I do wish that the author had included  the amount of clay that each project would require.  Many of the pieces  require mixing clays to produce specific colors, and without any idea of  how much clay will be used, it's hard to make enough, but not too much, of  a color you may not need again.<br />The most serious problem with the book is  the quality of the binding.  The copy I have is so poorly bound that the  spine is loosening noticeably, and I've had it only two days.  I would  suggest that anyone who purchases this book have it immediately cut and  spiral bound; this will also enable the user to keep the book open to a  specific page while working.<br />All in all, a very good book, but the  publishers should have paid closer attention to the quality of its  production.	2000-03-16
US	52836792	R2H7DYROPWA067	0151440506	769197492	The I Hate to Cook Almanack: A Book Of Days- Recipes & Relief for the Reluctant Cook and the Harried Houseperson	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Great fun, good recipes	I can't believe this is out of print - I so badly want a copy!  The book provides a full year's worth of recipes, humor, cooking tips, and comments, and it's funny and engrossing enough to read straight through.  Even as a  vegetarian, I found many recipes I wanted to make...but this is a library  copy.  Sooner or later, they're going to want it back.  <br />Excellent book,  great gift idea, lots of fun...just out of print.  Darn.	1999-12-31
US	52836792	R2CHE8HNG0O74E	0452271215	784611116	Alice K's Guide to Life: One Woman's Quest for Survival, Sanity, and the Perfect NewShoes	Books	4	12	16	N	N	Cheaper than therapy	I refuse to believe there could actually be a woman like Alice K. anywhere.  Even operating with the slightly more comfortable assumption that Alice K. is a highly exaggerated composite, it's still fairly scary.   Funny book, but a frightening character.<br />That, however, is missing the  real benefit of Alice K. and her guide to life: no matter what is wrong  with you, Alice K. is worse. Read this book and you'll be able to feel  mentally healthy and vaguely superior even if a judge has confined you to a  state psychiatric hospital.<br />Example: so you're hugely agoraphobic, and  you haven't seen daylight unfiltered by glass and blinds in six years.  You  can read this book and think: &quot;At least I'm not routinely spending  three times my yearly income on shoes.  And I know what to do with leisure  time.&quot;<br />See?  Wonderful!  If you have this book nearby, you won't  need to tell your troubles to a mental health professional; one quick  glance will convince you your hang-ups really aren't that bad.  (And it'll  put a smile on your face, too.)	1999-12-23
US	52836792	R1OV6FD2A4JPHG	0767902521	157497316	A Walk in the Woods: Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail (Official Guides to the Appalachian Trail)	Books	3	35	52	N	Y	Bill Bryson is clinically insane	Bill Bryson clearly has a death wish.  For this book, he decided to hike the Applachian Trail - definitely not a walk in the woods - despite being inexperienced, unprepared, and out of shape.  Not dangerous enough?  He's  also thrown into the mix Stephen Katz, an annoying, Snickers-chomping man  who could easily win the simultaneous titles of Man Least Likely to Survive  a Hike and Least Desireable Traveling Companion.  <br />The book details their  adventures, which are of the kind of travel comedy where, in between  chuckles, you find yourself thanking all kinds of gods that you aren't on  the trip, too.  It's great.  And Katz, with his special role of Horribly  Annoying Accompaniment, is wonderful.  You relish reading about him, and  relish even more that it was *Bryson* sharing a tent with him, not  you.<br />In short, this is the perfect book to read when you're stuck in the  city and you long to commune with nature.  When you're finished, you'll run  to the nearest busy street so you can sink to your knees and kiss the  dirty, gum-covered sidewalk, while uttering the chant of travel readers  everywhere: &quot;Thank GOD I stayed at home.&quot;	1999-09-19
US	52836792	RC1ZICPGL5A5R	0345417518	626861924	The Celebration Chronicles : Life, Liberty and the Pursuit of Property Values in Disney's New Town	Books	5	18	19	N	N	A gripping discussion of Celebration's early development	Andrew Ross is hardly the kind of person for whom Celebration was built.  He's single, he has no children, and he's apparently an educated intellectual with an abiding love of urban life.  Nonetheless, he has done  a very capable, skilled job in The Celebration Chronicles.  Accurate  coverage of the origins and early life of Disney's town required research  and synthesis of the huge number of disparate elements - for example,  architecural history and Disney's plans for its corporate future - and Ross  has risen to the challenge in almost every way.<br />He does an especially  good job - not surprising, for a college professor - of describing and  analyzing the parents v. school war that had such an incredible influence  on the town's development.  Ross covers the external and internal politics,  the education theory, and the human details of the school, as well as the  many other, varied factors that fed into the battle.  <br />The book also  displays the results of the author's wide-ranging, thorough research.  Ross  appears to have entered into every social circle that would have him and  even a few that wouldn't.  He attended every town meeting, even those where  he was the only resident present.  He visited many residents and talked  with the full range of social groups. He even carefully documented every  rumor that blossomed on the flourishing town grapevine - that chapter makes  for humorous reading indeed.  All of Ross's research means that this book  provides a very clear picture of the range and diversity of the residents  and their lives in Celebration.<br />The book does founder a bit in the places  where Ross's own leanings become too clear.  His opinions - which, I'm  grateful to say, are generally quarrantined in their own sections and  chapters - about the town's issues are just what you'd expect from a hugely  liberal educator without children.  In the famed school battle, for  example, his sympathy and empathy is all for the teachers and the lostinnovative instruction paradigm.  He appears totally incapable of  understanding the parents' viewpoints, so his personal opinion is  unbalanced.<br />Overall, though, this is a well-balanced, well-written,  well-researched book.  Considering the depth and complexity of the topic,  this is an astounding work.  Absolutely worth reading and owning, even if  you'd never in your life consider residing in a place like Celebration.	1999-09-18
US	52836792	RM36Q1EOOLLEC	0805055606	113601343	Celebration, U.S.A.: Living in Disney's Brave New Town	Books	1	8	12	N	N	An inadequate book on a fascinating topic	Douglas Frantz and Catherine Collins had all the opportunities when they researched Celebration, U.S.A.  They bought a house in the town, sent their kids to school, made friends, joined the social circle, even interviewed a  few people here and there.  You'd think this would make an exceptional book  - well researched, deeply felt, rigorously documented.  It doesn't.   Instead, their book is disjointed, incomplete, and on every page gives the  sensation of writers trying to cover for scanty research.<br />Several of the  town's most important early struggles, like the school and its curriculum,  or the poor home construction, are discussed in depth.  However, the  authors fail to provide context and completion for each issue.  They never,  for example, note the outcome of the battle that could be described as  parents v. school, although the outcome certainly occured while they were  residents in town.  Nor do they discuss in any real detail the local and  regional political climate that had such an effect on the school.  This  sort of thing turns their book into a series of stories with no beginnings  and no endings.  <br />They also completely missed many quieter, but just as  crucial, events and movements in the town.  They failed, for example, to  document the Montessori School at all - not its beginnings, which were  precedent-setting in Celebration, not its future, nothing.  Frantz and  Collins failed, too, to reach citizens of Celebration who *weren't* like  themselves.  There is little dicussion of the single parents, the renters,  the gays, the elderly, or the (admittedly limited) ethnic minorities.   These omissions create an incredible bias in their book.  <br />Add to this  the poor quality of the writing with its distracting conventions, and you  have a worthless, random discourse on a truly gripping, relevant topic -  the building of a new town by a corporate giant.  Despite the fascinating  subject, the book cannot hold the attention of the reader forany length of  time.  If you want to read a decent and interesting book about Celebration,  read Andrew Ross's The Celebration Chronicles instead.	1999-09-18
US	52836792	R1WEZAWD043OSJ	0060920084	754387444	The Lost Continent: Travels in Small-Town America	Books	4	16	22	N	N	Solidly funny work by a man you're happy you don't know.	The Lost Continent is Bill Bryson's account of his random wanderings through America.  It's important to take note of exactly who Bryson is; he's an Anglophile who lived for 20 years in England, and he's also a  native of Iowa.  This book is exactly what you'd expect from a man like  that.<br />Bryson searches for small town perfection and, for the most part,  fails to find it.  (This is not surprising; he has made a career out of  disappointment.  He obtained similar results on a tour of England, and he  loves *that* county.)  Instead, he finds modern America: strip malls,  shopping centers, and truck stops interspersed with occasional historic  landmarks and scenes of great beauty.<br />The author states in the beginning  of the book that his journey was inspired by the death of his father.   Bryson describes his father as a tight-fisted, irrascible man constantly in  search of (free) historic monuments.  Although Bryson spends a good chunk  of time making fun of his father, his narrative is stunning support for  theories of genetics.  Bryson whines about the cost of motels ($30 - $40),  rants about the cost of admission to tourist attractions ($2.50 - $15.00,  for the most part), and shows a remarkable ability to seek out the dullest  portions of any town.<br />This is a humorous look at the parts of America  that most Americans are smart enough to avoid.  The narrative just brings  you a little too close to an author who seems to have made it his life's  work to be just slightly more irritable and irrational than the next guy.	1999-09-01
US	52836792	R1MKP4JABSLY2T	0452267455	664457226	Baghdad without a Map and Other Misadventures in Arabia	Books	4	4	6	N	N	The Middle East: Only the Low Points	Horwitz, in Baghdad Without a Map, very clearly describes the world of the middle east - from the apparent perspective of an outsider highly disenchanted with Arabia.  His observations and commentary probably closely  resemble what most Americans would feel attempting to live in any of the  middle eastern countries, but lack the appreciation and the love of another  culture and place that marks great travel literature.  However, he does  provide the occasional clear insight into the middle eastern world, and his  descriptions of the cities and countries he visited are vivid and sometimes  fascinating.<br />He provides a great deal of political information, an unusal  element in travel writing.  Depending on the reader's point of view, this  can either be gripping or mind-numbing.  He may have chosen to introduce  this material because the remainder of the book is so often narrowly  focused.<br />His journalistic technique can be roughly described as  &quot;find a resident and talk to him.&quot;  His portrayal of these people  is interesting indeed, but the microscopic focus of his chapters can be  wearying.  I, at least, found myself wondering just how accurate a chapter  could be if the author had interviewed only four people for it.  I doubt  that's an acceptable cross-section of the population.<br />However, the single  largest problem with this book is its unrelentingly negative viewpoint.   Horwitz seemed to hate the middle east.  Each chapter talks about  corruption, stagnation, decay, and desolation, with no balancing positives  whatsoever.  I found it hard to believe that so many disparate countries  contained nothing but variegated miseries.  And the author's petty or  narrow-minded complaints about some of the places undermined the effects of  his justified remarks about the worst of them.<br />Overall, though, an  interesting book.  It is a nice, light read, and it covers many different  Arabic cultures.  Horwitz writes well, with a good ear for dialect and a  deft touch with his subjects.  In short, this is a fascinating tour of the  worst points of the middle east.	1999-07-12
US	52836792	R1LAHAW7DNQTT5	0385482353	42259480	Revision of Justice	Books	3	5	6	N	Y	I guess that's why they write novels.	The final sentences of John Morgan Wilson's Revision of Justice are Benjamin Justice's lament for the inevitable ending.  &quot;But life doesn't work like that, not even sometimes.  I guess that's why they make  movies.&quot;  Unfortunately, those lines could apply to Wilson's novel,  too, with a one-word substitution.  Revision of Justice is no more  realistic or lifelike than the typical Hollywood screenplay, so pat that at  times it reads like one.  For a series that began surprisingly strongly  with Simple Justice, this is tragic.<br />Unfortunately, the difference  between Simple and Revision is clear: in the first book, Wilson focused on  character, introducing and developing Benjamin Justice as well as his world  and his supporting cast.  There, Wilson shone; he created a deeply flawed  anti-hero who nonetheless could hold the loyalty of the reader and several  stereotype characters (i.e., the grouchy editor with the heart of gold)  that broke out of their mold.  He also painted the world of West Hollywood  vividly and clearly.<br />In Revision, however, Wilson leaves character  development and shifts his focus to plot.  That's where it all falls apart.    Revision limps clumsily along a pre-ordained story arc, as though it had  been created in a beginning writers' workshop.  The meat of the mystery is  clear from the first chapter, and the reader knows the solution in every  detail by page 131 (first hardback edition).  The rest of the book  alternates between the agonizing wait for Justice to catch up - how many  murders will it take? how many innocent people will he hurt in his quest  for truth? - and an in-depth depiction of the entertainment industry, with  a focus on screenwriting.  In fact, large chunks of the this novel would be  much more at home in a non-fiction book entitled &quot;An Insider's Guide  to Hollywood Screenwriting.&quot;  Wilson clearly knows this world all too  well.  If only he had been able to draw the reader into it, as he did withWH in Simple, rather than dissecting it.  <br />Even more painful is the  careful alignment of resolutions, as Justice gets his chance to revise his  past mistakes.  He once abandoned a lover dying of AIDS.  In Revision, he  finds a guy who looks just like Jacques, the dead lover.  Conveniently,  this guy is also sick with AIDS, also dying, in a way that gives Justice a  chance to replay his abandoment of Jacques, making the right choice this  time around.  Justice also once falsified a major story for the LA Times,  dragging his editor down with him when he falls from grace.  In Revision,  Justice has the opportunity to pursue truth instead of lies and offer that  same editor a major scoop.  (It's the truth, this time.)<br />Second novels  are always difficult, especially the second novel in a series.  Wilson,  despite all of his undeniable writing talent, has stumbled here.  But so  have a lot of good writers; many went on to better things.  Let's hope that  the third Justice mystery restores the series to its former glory.	1999-06-01
US	52836792	R36RCYKUQ4BFJL	0446600962	983312383	Midshipman's Hope	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Maybe I missed something.	Midshipman's Hope is a fairly standard military-setting SF novel, neither flawless nor worthless.  Although none of the basic elemtents of the book are terribly original, and although the plot at times strains the limits of  suspension of disbelief, it is nonetheless readable and  enjoyable.<br />Feintuch nicely integrates military history with an SF  setting, but relies too heavily on concepts that have been used, sometimes  to death, in this genre.  The young crew, the reversion to a more  straight-laced era, the revival of (I sincerely hope) currently outmoded  discipline and behavior - all of these have been done before, and done  better.  And a young officer assuming command of a vessel after an  unfortunate chain of circumstances has occurred both in reality (though  mostly during wars) and in SF novels.  However, the lack of originality  doesn't render the book dull; it just ensures that Midshipman's Hope will  never be considered a ground-breaking classic of the genre.<br />At times, the  plot seems contrived.  The initial coincidence that leaves the ship with a  midshipman for a captain is believeable, but things get a little thick as  circumstances combine and conspire to keep Nick Seafort in command.  The  only explanation is that fate *wanted* Nick to be a captain, and just  wasn't willing to wait.  But don't think fate is on Nick's side - the sheer  number of difficulties he encounters on a supposedly standard trip is  astonishing.  My best guess - fate wanted Nick to be a captain so he could  be punished for his sins in past lives, or something. <br />I can't resist  commenting on the other reviews on this site.  I was astonished to see so  many reviewers describe it as homoerotic.  The main character and narrator  is clearly and definitely heterosexual; the author doesn't leave us in any  doubt about that.  The descriptions of the characters are very flowery and  physical, and I suppose *could* be interpreted as heavily disguised  homoeroticism.  However, since there's no further gay elements, I'd have to  categorize it as heavily disguised, suppressed, latent, hidden  homoeroticism, which in my opinion is pretty well summed up by the shorter  phrase no homoeroticism.<br />I was equally surprised to hear so many  complaints about the &quot;sado masochistic&quot; (sic) and violent nature  of the book.  Although I agree with some reviewers - the corporal  punishment scenes get a bit repetitive after a while - the author probably  was using them as an attempt to make later plot elements understandable,  and later decisions laudable.  And none of those scenes are especially  graphic or as violent; they are most reminiscent of stories set in British  public schools before 1930.<br />Overall, the book is enjoyable.  I found it  neither a masterpiece, as some reviewers have, or a disaster, as others  have.  I hope the author finds his stride in future novels; with a little  development as a writer, Feintuch could produce quite good SF adventure,  especially if he learned to cut his work a little more harshly.  As it  stands, though, Midshipman's Hope is well worth reading if you like SF  military adventure.	1999-05-23
US	52836792	R37WVFLRO3HJCR	1575661748	902187520	Flight Dreams: A Mark Manning Mystery (Mark Manning Mysteries)	Books	1	7	12	N	N	Silly.  Obvious.  Unendurable.	Michael Craft makes Lillian Jackson Braun look like Umberto Eco. Flight Dreams is horribly written, weakly plotted, and insufferably dull.  This is definitely the worst gay mystery I've ever read, and it's in the top 10 of  my worst mystery of all time list.<br />The book details the utterly  uninteresting travails of Mark Manning, repressed journalist extrordinaire.   Given a ludicrous deadline by his publisher, Manning has just ninety days  to solve the mystery of the missing heiress, or he'll lose his job.  Along  the way, he must confront his sexuality.  On paper, this sounds like a  winning set-up for a fluff mystery, something that might be fun and  diverting.<br />It isn't, mostly because Craft just doesn't deliver.  There  are so many problems it's hard to know where to begin.  Let's begin at the  beginning: the book is written in the present tense.  This becomes  excruciating by page thirty or so.  Add this to the rampant flaws in the  writing itself, and you have a book that is virtually unreadable.<br />That's  okay, though, because it really isn't worth reading.  The mystery portion  of the plot is utterly predictable; I solved the entire mystery by page 42,  and spent the rest of my time wondering why Mark Manning, Brilliant Boy  Journalist, was such a moron.  And the romance portion is both unrealistic  and dull, mostly because romance is character-driven, and there are no  characters of note in this book.<br />Mark Manning is probably the worst of  the people lifelessly inhabiting the pages of the novel.  He is supposedly  so hideously uncomfortable with his sexuality that he's made it to 39  without admitting that he's gay even to himself, but he spends every waking  moment entertaining thoughts and feelings that would clue in a person of  normal intelligence in four seconds flat.  However, he displays none of the  homophobia or self-loathing so common in such violent closet cases.   Manning isn't even a believable reporter.  His life as he knows itrests on  solving this case.  A Catholic priest may hold some of the answers.  And  Manning chooses to spend the first five minutes of the interview telling  the priest that there is no god and he's a moron for thinking there is.   That's some suave investigative technique there!<br />I've left out some of  the more ludicrous portions of the book, like when Manning discovers Neil  is the boy for him because they both have the same erotic dream about  flying.  I'll leave them for the intrepid or terminally determined reader  to discover.	1999-03-21
US	52836792	R3LPWQ37447YSK	0803715048	583302642	I Am the Dog I Am the Cat	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	A Perfect Depiction of Dogs and Cats	I Am the Dog I Am the Cat doesn't tell a story - instead it tells about the characters of a cat and a dog.  Anyone who has ever owned either will recognize the essence of the animals in Hall's excellent verse, while  Moser's elegant illustrations capture the dog and the cat beautifully.   <br />I recommend this book to anyone who has ever had a pet or ever hopes to  have one.  Excellent for reading aloud, but be prepared for some rather  urgent requests for a dog (or a cat) when the book is done.	1999-03-13
US	52836792	R2PT4UBXV5IPCE	0061059064	694992048	Jingo (Discworld)	Books	1	8	28	N	Y	This series needs to lie fallow for about a decade	In yet another installment of the interminable Discworld series, Terry Pratchett describes Ankh-Morpork's war with a better-armed and better-prepared neighbor.  Though he was once the funniest author writing,  Jingo shows further degeneration in Pratchett's creativity and ability,  probably the result of seriously overfarming the series.<br />Pratchett has  reached the stage in his career where no idea is too weak or too small to  be made into a novel.  The entire plot of Jingo would have merited a  two-line reference or a two-paragraph footnote in one of the best books in  the series.  In fact, it *did* get used briefly in Guards, Guards.  And  that is where it should have stayed.<br />The novel drags on through recycled  characters and trite plot lines, never really picking up speed, certainly  never producing a real laugh.  The only consolation prize for the truly  determined reader who manages to finish the thing is Pratchett's always  masterful command of the language. <br />Reading each new Pratchett novel is  like watching the inexorable process of a terminal illness.  Jingo is no  exception.  At this point, perhaps the only kind thing to do is put the  series to sleep.	1999-03-09
US	52836792	R3MWJ9WGD80LSL	044100069X	150984734	Deerskin	Books	1	14	38	N	N	It's Always Darkest, and There Is No Dawn	I began this book because I have very much enjoyed McKinley's previous works.  I finished it because I kept thinking things had to improve sometime.  I was wrong.  <br />This book is a novel-length retelling of a  fairy tale, some McKinley has done very well, especially with Beauty and  the Beast (see Beauty and Rose Daughter).  However, this tale is a little  more obscure than most, and the retelling is gruesome in the very best  traditions of the Brothers Grimm.  Only more so. The novel consists of two  hundred relentless pages of death, incest, rape, pain, and misery.  In an  attempt to balance things out, the last page contains a wishy-washy,  incomplete conclusion.<br />This is not a children's novel; most kids under  the age of 13 would be deeply disturbed by it.  It might appeal to some YAs  and adults, provided they'd either a) had their senses pretty thoroughly  numbed or b) positively enjoyed watching the pointless, hideous sufferings  of others.  For everyone else, it's an exercise in masochism.<br />Perhaps,  then, it's fortunate that Deerskin contains some of McKinley's least  compelling writing.  The novel swells with fantasy style cliches, brims  over with lifeless descriptions, and drowns in page after page of stolid,  empty prose.  <br />The only possible reason for reading this book is if you  use novels to escape into a world even more miserable than your own.  In  that case, I canot recommend it highly enough.  Otherwise, read something  else.  Anything else.	1999-03-07
US	52836792	R37QKMUHUE4RQO	0312968302	322969225	Thrones, Dominations (A Lord Peter Wimsey Mystery)	Books	2	20	24	N	N	A Pale Reunion in an Unmemorable Book	The true measure of any attempt to produce a book &quot;in the style of&quot; a famous author is believeabilty.  Thrones, Dominations has none of that.  Although this book contains many faint echoes of Dorothy Sayers,  it also contains an enormous quantity of Jill Paton Walsh.  Walsh makes her  heavy-handed touch felt in every element of the book.  <br />The plot, while  perhaps resembling a Sayers plot in broad outline, has none of her subtle  twists and layered clues.  Anyone can read the book and guess the murderer  in the first twenty pages, which is especially sad because that is  something Sayers talked about, jokingly, in several of her previous  novels.<br />The characters, too, are greatly lacking.  Those introduced for  the first time in this novel seem one-dimensional; Walsh lacks Sayers'  ability to make people come alive.  And those that are continued from other  novels - and Walsh digs up and drags out virtually *every* character from  the previous novels - are shades of themselves. It's like watching Harriet  and Peter, plus assorted supporting characters, played by teenagers in a  high school play.  However, for those truly desperate for a Wimsey fix,  this book does serve something of the function of a class reunion - you get  to see everyone again, even if they aren't quite like you remembered  them.<br />The style is not nearly as intelligent or quietly elegant as in  Busman's Honeymoon, Gaudy Night, or any of the earlier books.  Walsh's  dialogue, in particular, at times sounds like a parody of Sayers'.  Even  more unfortunately, Walsh has chosen to make up for several of her lacks -  lack of character, dialogue, description, and plot - by introducing a great  deal of crystal ball prediction of the future.  As we read, we are  constantly reminded that this was written by a modern author who did her  research; after a while, I found myself suspecting that perhaps she  included such repeated, heavy-handed references to events to come to prove  thatshe did her research.  Unfortunately, she does not manage to make  either the characters or the plot any more intelligent by imbuing them with  this totally inappropriate awareness of what is to come.<br />This is a book  to read only if you are a true fan of Sayers.  If you love the Wimsey  stories, this will be the closest you will ever come to an update on their  lives.  You will get to attend the Sayers Class Reunion, which has a  certain value, and you will be able to comfort yourself with the occasional  passage that does ring true to Sayers.  Fortunately, since no part of this  book is especially memorable, you can read it once for its dubious  pleasures and allow it to fade from your mind, leaving only the better  memories of Sayers' real works behind.	1999-03-05
US	52836792	R2WZSK339PUN5M	0028626168	908854107	The Unofficial Guide to Walt Disney World 1999 (FROMMER'S UNOFFICIAL GUIDES TRAVEL SERIES)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Ultimate Guide to the Ultimate Vacation	In my family, we're compulsive researchers.  When we planned our first trip to WDW, I assumed full research responsibilities.  I skimmed more than 40 guides, checked out websites and usenet, telephoned Disney information  many times, and drove our travel agent crazy.<br />Very late in the game,  after our reservations were already made, I discovered this guide by chance  on the shelves of our local bookstore (it had been out of stock on my  previous visits, and I hadn't heard anything about it, so I didn't worry).  I picked up the book and realized, over the next half hour or so, that I  could've skipped the 40 other books, most of the websites, and the travel  agent.  Information it took me forever to discover was clearly delineated.  Information I never thought I'd need was there, too, with explanations of  why I needed it.  And, as an added bonus, it was fun to read and very  funny; it avoided most of the usual pitfalls of travel writing and  guidebook style.<br />This was the first source that authoritatively explained  what early entry was and how it could effect our touring.  This was the  first source that provided actual statistics based on populations - most of  the guidebooks' ratings were based solely on author preference, or, at  best, the author and his family.  This was the first source that was honest  about things like food (it really is horrible to try to eat there, folks).  And so on.  This book made our vacation much easier and much, much, much  more fun than it could have been otherwise.<br />Disney World is the ultimate  high-stress, high-demand, high-reward vacation.  The park is a wonderful,  thrilling, truly magical place. But you spend lots of money to get there,  you work very hard once you're in the park, and every member of the party  has detailed fantasies and expectations - all different. It's a recipe for  disaster for the unprepared.  Many times in the park, as we saw parents and  kids in screaming arguments, chidren throwing tantrums or sobbing  miserably, couples elaborately not speaking to each other, and grim faces  on 50% of the visitors, we wished everyone had read this book.rums or sobbing  miserably, couples elaborately not speaking to each other, and grim faces  on 50% of the visitors, we wished everyone had read this book.	1999-03-05
US	52836792	R12STPX405FUTK	0679781587	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha: A Novel	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Finish the book at your own risk	The first third of Arthur Golden's Memoirs of a Geisha is a fascinating look at a veiled culture - that of the geisha.  Golden allows us to learn about geishas along with Sayuri, the main character, and his picture of  their lives and customs is fascinating and may well be accurate, given the  author's degrees in Japanese art and history.  Certainly the book has an  authentic feel and an eye for detail that results in a rich, textured  work.<br />Unfortunately, Golden seems much less comfortable with plotting a  novel than with Japanese culture; as the plot gathers speed, the book  degenerates. Memoir goes from a sublime and fascinating glimpse into a  world most readers will never see to a slighty-better-than-usual treatment  of an exceedingly standard and hackneyed plot. Good girl, surrounded by  mean and bad people, triumphs and wins the man of her dreams - this was old  hat two hundred years ago.<br />The conclusion, in particular, is  exceptionally disappointing.  For the first four hundred pages, Golden  convinces us that Sayuri is a woman of exceptional strength and  intelligence; in the last eighty, he expects us to believe that she is  neither.  Sayuri deserves a better end than this.<br />Read the first two  hundred pages of this book and put it down.  Anyone with a genuine interest  in other cultures or a love for beautifully ornate English will enjoy the  first portion of the novel.  No one will miss anything by avoiding the last  part of it.	1999-01-26
US	52836792	R2D57CFNNDU0JZ	006447044X	697512973	The Best Christmas Pageant Ever	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	A fun, silly, and serious Christmas story	Told in the first person by a pageant participant, this book chronicles the cataclysmic events that take place when the yearly nativity play is hijacked by the worst children that ever existed.<br />It can be read on  several levels. Children and adults alike will be unable to stop laughing  as disaster builds upon disaster.  However, those who are so inclined will  also find themselves reflecting on the meaning of the story of the birth of  Jesus.  <br />Hysterical, honest, and sometimes very touching, the story is  aimed at ages 7 - 10, but is very suitable for reading aloud and in that  way could be enjoyed by all ages.	1998-11-29
US	52836792	R3ATTQL6CFVQ68	0395521513	815733805	Black and White (Caldecott Medal Book)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	It's not just black and white...	Each page of this book contains four panels, each telling a different story...or maybe the same one.  Each panel is told and drawn in a different style, from the typical children's book to surreal/avante-garde art.   <br />Fascinating and enchanting, the story(ies) will appeal to children, but  may be only fully appreciated by adults.  Perfect for reading aloud, in  both an educational and an enjoyment sense.  <br />There is much, much more to  this book than meets the eye.	1998-11-29
US	52836792	R39HT6L0UZXFH7	0156181681	699419877	A Client Called Noah: A Family Journey Continued	Books	4	14	14	N	N	A Natural Conclusion for Noah; His Family Goes On	This is the third installment of the true story of Noah Greenfeld, a severely brain-damaged (his family now rejects the term &quot;autistic&quot;) and behavior-disordered individual.  Told entirely in extracts from Noah's father's diary, the story is honest and compelling.  This is the natural conclusion to the saga of the unchanging Noah, discussing his fate and his affect on the world that could not affect him.<br />I have not read the second volume, A Place for Noah, but I clearly remember reading the first, A Child Called Noah.  Child is mostly about Josh's hopes for Noah, the struggle for a cure or a treatment or even an answer.  In Client, Josh seems to have found the answer: Noah is as he always will be, and there is no hope of improvement.  <br />Stagnation sounds like a rather dull basis for a book, and if Client was only about Noah, it would indeed be uninteresting.  But the focus has shifted over the years, and if the book fails a portrait of a child, it succeeds as the story of a family.  Josh is primarily chronicling the struggles of his family - his normal son's teenage years, his marital difficulties, his problems with heart disease.  The honesty will resonate with anyone who has ever lived in a family, with a disabled child or without.<br />Anyone who hopes for a tale of miracle cures and family perfection will be disappointed; there are no miracles in this book, no ideal worlds.  But A Client Called Noah offers some unanswerable questions to ponder, and a tale about one family that could apply to any family.	1998-05-11
