US	52832478	R1DDXLH5C8BGAX	0767910486	946259270	Fashion Victim: Our Love-Hate Relationship with Dressing, Shopping, and the Cost of Style	Books	2	2	8	N	N	What, no works cited?	For a journalist, I'm shocked that Lee has compiled such research without providing exact dates, times, locations, publications, and interviews. I was expecting an unapologetic unveiling of the fashion industry along the lines of Schlossinger's &quot;Fast Food Nation&quot;. Boy, was I disappointed.<BR>And about the court case referred to on page 34 -which editor allowed for such paraphrasing with no requirement for formal citation? Obviously, one un-versed in the term, &quot;libel&quot;.	2003-09-23
US	52832478	R3I82GY8ISUVMJ	0441009727	849730505	The Summer Country	Books	3	3	5	N	N	In the Shadow of De Lint	Been a while since I registered a review here, but thought I should weigh in, what with all the five star reviews so far posted.<br />This is a decent debut, but certainly not deserving of all the accolades being showered upon it by previous reviewers.  Covering little ground that is new or significant, the author delivers a competant tale that should appeal to De Lint fans, while possessing none of the latter's power of imagery or languange.  Further, the tale is hampered at times by a certain clumsiness that often afflicts a first time novelist, which is no where more evident than in the author's attempt to jump start his novel with action more typical of an episode from Buffy than what one would expect of a serious novel.  Also, more often than not attempts at humor fall flat or turn toward the burlesque, and it is hard to believe most readers will be satisfied with the novel's resolution, though it does leave room for further sequels.<br />Still, Hetley's handling of natural description and his secondary world in the main is well done, as is the overall competancy of writing, thereby offering divertissement if not truly serious stimulation.  And the novel does touch upon comtemporary issues such as abortion and sexual politics, though not with any great depth.  <br />I suspect the author's fiction will improve in future, but for the moment this offering is only marginally better than average.	2003-01-02
US	52832478	R2ZW66R3AMEW3W	0553109200	119744907	The Years of Rice and Salt	Books	3	3	8	N	Y	Instruction Disguised as Fiction	This is another example of Orson Scott Card's admonishment of science fiction as info-dump. At its outset offering much promise, as early as the chapter entitled The Alchemist the narrative elements have become increasingly subordinated to didactic discourse on early metallury and technology, as well as ruminations upon Eastern philosophy.  The end result, as John Deakins suggests, is tedium, with the already peripatetic and episodic storylines assuming all the narrative interest of an instruction manual.<br />A darling of the critics and techies, this is the fourth novel that I have read by Robinson in which the narrative elements have been subsumed by the author's over-riding desire to inform or incorporate discussion or speculation that would be better served by nonfiction.  Bottom line, those books that I have read by the author are narratively boring, as he often confuses story with text.  In this case, without even being aware of Mr. Deakins' warnings, I abandoned the work three quarters in, based upon prior experience with Robinson certain of what was coming as well as what was not.  <br />This will be the final novel I pick up by this author.  If I wished a lecture in metallurgy, alchemy, theories of history, or Eastern religion and philosophy, I would be far better served -- as well as likely more intellectually stimulated -- by any number of college courses, or the more comprehensive and at times insightful writings of scholars.  At least I wouldn't have to put up with nonfiction masquerading itself as story.  Those of you who like this sort of pseudo-pedagogy, or find fictional legitimacy lent by technical detail or ongoing discourse, are welcome to it, though I question the author's approach to fiction is compelling, either as narrative or as instruction.	2002-08-23
US	52832478	R167B7F4FW7VY7	0380791277	778919555	Lord of the Fire Lands: A Tale of the King's Blades	Books	4	9	13	N	N	A Marked Improvement Over The First &quot;King's Blades&quot;	While some readers appear to have preferred &quot;Gilded Chain&quot; to Duncan's second installment, I found this a far better book, with greater depth of characterization and a more focused plotline. As at least one other reviewer has noted, the previous character of Durendal often seemed too larger-than life, and the temporal and locational shifting between chapters, especially the rather standard sword and sorcery jaunt halfway around the world to fabled Samarinda, at times became more rambling excursions than concise additions to the narrative. While by book's end &quot;The Gilded Chain&quot; had revealed a rationale for its seemingly peripatetic plotline, the end result in and of itself did not entirely satisfy or justify the liberties taken earlier within the narrative.<br />  This second installment, which in part can be read as a self-contained novel despite some necessary preamble established in &quot;Gilded Chain,&quot; with its occasional concurrency with events presented in the first book, as well as a structure inherent to both works that begs for a closer and resolving linkage that apparently is to follow in &quot;Sky of Swords, seems much more successful and focused and linear in the evolvement of its temporal shifts, a significant portion of the tale told in reminiscence, and the leap forward that takes place at book's end, unlike &quot;Gilded Chain,&quot; a more natural and credible transition. The magical elements running throughout the narrative here are more concrete and fully realized, even ignoring factors established in the first novel, and both events taking place and the world surrounding appear more clearly delineated. The intrigue infusing the plot is not as fitfully revealed, and the characters, with greater flaws and indecision, are at once more dimensional and credible, over all presenting a richer and more engaging tale than found in &quot;Gilded Chain.&quot;<br />  That said, some of the same characteristics that nagged one in the first book continued to persist here. I remain unsure, not having read the third book, how the inconsistencies that intentionally exist in both, internally and by comparison, relate to the over all tale the author is trying to tell. Having read assertions by others that have completed all three books, I am led to believe that all will be revealed by the end, and that the author's intentional misdirection and playing with the veracity of his varying perspectives will assume a guiding rationale that will inform and increase the narrative's appreciation. Should this be the case, the author is to be applauded for the creativity in which he has approached the structure of his series. However, for the moment, the uncertainties created by this approach appear obviously unsettling and somewhat confusing for most of the readers that have chosen to respond, and whether this is a tactic as presented in serialization that will prove to be justified, in the end offering more creative advantage than disadvantage, waits to be seen. At present I remain somewhat skeptical within the format of three distinct and separate books released a year apart. But I will read the third when in becomes available in paperback---to date I do not believe these tales justify the expense of hardbound---and will remain open to be astounded.<br />  Finally, I agree with the reviewer who found the inclusion of Baelish to be at times distracting. While any number of authors have proven successful in creating languages that join or contribute to the flow of English narrative, there are just as many who seem to lack the ear necessary to avoid interruption or discordance with the flow of language, or simply seem to think that stringing together unexpected consonants and vowels alone will suffice. While Baelish does not suffer from the second flaw, borrowing as it does upon a mish-mash of Old English with influences from other etymological sources, the resulting combination of vowels, consonants and suffixes within the framework of modern day English requires the reader to constantly refer to the provided pronunciation guide, interrupting the narrative more than it contributes.<br />  At this point, especially when compared to better examples of heroic fantasy, such as the recent work by Matthew Stover or Steven Erikson, awarding this work four stars is likely over-generous. So much of the success or failure of this work hinges upon the resolution that will come in the final, third installment, that any true appraisal must be held in abeyance. Ultimately, the very nature of this trilogy's structure may prove to be its own undoing.	2001-06-14
US	52832478	RQ2XBH0DESJUM	0380974894	363051018	The One Kingdom (The Swans' War, Book 1)	Books	4	25	26	N	N	Appears Poised To Become The Epic Launch Of The Year	While Sean Russell is not reinventing or adding anything significantly new here to the conventions of traditional high fantasy, he nonetheless is able to infuse enough creative freshness, both in his world-building and his structure of magic, to offer a highly engaging and enjoyable tale that goes beyond the ordinary. As with many of the better epic fantasists currently continuing to pursue the long-held traditions of high fantasy---Robin Hobb or the recent &quot;Sword of Shadows&quot; series by J.V. Jones come to mind---the strengths here are not necessarily in exploring new avenues outside the common conventions of high fantasy, but in the detailed and multifaceted creation of realms and characters that by their depth of description and characterization, as well as their more literate quality of writing, transcend the often one dimensional stereotypes that plague so much of what sits on the shelves in every bookstore's fantasy section. These are well-spun examples of storytelling, simple in their overall objective, yet complex in their plotting, world-building and characterization. Further, their approach to narrative often transcends the linearity found in so much of fantasy fiction, diverse in both their structure and perspective, depending upon more than a sequence of action to propel their unfolding story.<br />I have noticed that a couple reviewers have referred to this book as being &quot;glacial&quot; in pace. I suppose, compared to works by Glen Cook, Raymond Feist or Terry Goodkind, to name but a few, this book is not as action-driven or dependent upon active conflict for the development of its story, relying more upon, as stated above, evolving, multifaceted plotlines or characterization to enrich and, I would contend, enliven its story. There is no rush to reveal every event or the complete motivation of each character. In certain cases purposes and circumstances change, reflecting both the evolving experiences and knowledge of the characters as well asthe reader, a development of narrative that I find far more credible and rich in storyline than a tale for the most part dependent upon a linear linking of climactic actions. While I suppose this might be attributed as a matter of taste, I would contend that a tale that offers more than the typical and anticipated stringing of largely melodramatic conflicts to build a singular and by now predictable and epiphanous moment of resolution possesses far greater potential for providing richness to the reading experience. And, I feel, this novel is laden with enough drama to sustain the adrenaline junkie's interest, as long as his or her reading is seeking more from a book than merely non-stop, singularly propelling action.  <br />I will look forward to Mr. Russell's next installment with anticipation. Should he be able to maintain the quality of writing and storytelling found here, this could easily become one of the better epics of high fantasy opening the new millenium. Highly recommended to fans of traditional high fantasy, and deserving of an additional half star.	2001-06-12
US	52832478	R1N31UNNOOES2Z	0380791269	858619462	The Gilded Chain:: A Tale of the King's Blades (Tales of the King's Blades Series)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	For The Moment Just One Among The Many	In all fairness, if allowed I would have given this story three and a half stars. Solidly and in some ways better written than most, structurally there did appear evidence that the author was constructing his tale in a manner somewhat unusual for typical fantasy, using a series of episodes to create a novel at once self-contained, yet apparently suggestive and tied thematically to novels still to come, as mentioned by previous reviewers. For this reason, while I was not particularly enamored with this novel, I will probably continue on to &quot;Lord of the Fire Lands,&quot; the next book in the series, to see where the author is taking this succession of temporally strung-together tales, in order to determine whether or not Mr. Duncan has some over-arching purpose behind how he has chosen to construct his novel that will further inform and elevate it beyond what, for the moment, appears to be only a rather modest and somewhat standard effort of heroic fantasy.<br />  On its own, I cannot say this was a particularly memorable novel, despite some earlier reviewers' enthusiasms. As implied above, while written with workman-like skill, thematically this story in and of itself seems rather limited in scope, the society and rituals only in part realized, and existing largely at the surface. Possessing neither the narrative flow nor depth of characterization and drama of other writers borrowing upon or enlivening the conventions of heroic fantasy---authors such as Steven Erikson or Matthew Stover come to mind---in many ways the world Duncan has created seems rather flat by comparison. Further, despite the eventual tying together of individual plot threads occurring by novel's end, the first half of the book, broken into long chapters separated both in terms of storyline as well as time and locale, creates a very episodic character within the evolving story, rambling between broad temporal gaps in events and players which causes the narrative to jump about in fits and starts that I found only partially successful, nor convincingly justified by revelations arriving by book's conclusion, some of which could be anticipated. Taken singly, this novel appears to be an instance where cleverness of composition does not fully meet or complement the demands of narrative flow, nor entirely integrates the seemingly diverse and at times temporally enisled story elements. One remains aware of the author's manipulation without being fully persuaded as to his intention. Perhaps when combined with the succeeding novels in this series, the author's episodic approach to unveiling his narrative will reveal an inherent logic, but for the moment this approach seems more artifice than a natural or innately developing motive that informs or significantly enhances the story. And, when considering this novel as a whole, it becomes impossible to ignore the many better, more fully realized and imaginative tales of heroic or high fantasy that are currently available elsewhere.	2001-06-11
US	52832478	R2BUPJ8D9POPQ5	0380791269	858619462	The Gilded Chain:: A Tale of the King's Blades (Tales of the King's Blades Series)	Books	3	0	5	N	N	For The Moment Just One Among The Many	In all fairness, if allowed I would have given this story three and a half stars. Solidly and in some ways better written than most, structurally there did appear evidence that the author was constructing his tale in a manner somewhat unusual for typical fantasy, using a series of episodes to create a novel at once self-contained, yet apparently suggestive and tied thematically to novels still to come, as mentioned by previous reviewers. For this reason, while I was not particularly enamored with this novel, I will probably continue on to &quot;Lord of the Fire Lands,&quot; the next book in the series, to see where the author is taking this succession of temporally strung-together tales, in order to determine whether or not Mr. Duncan has some over-arching purpose behind how he has chosen to construct his novel that will further inform and elevate it beyond what, for the moment, appears to be only a rather modest and somewhat standard effort of heroic fantasy.<br />  On its own, I cannot say this was a particularly memorable novel, despite some earlier reviewers' enthusiasm. As implied above, while written with workman-like skill, thematically this story in and of itself seems rather limited in scope, the society and rituals only in part realized, and existing largely at the surface. Possessing neither the narrative flow nor depth of characterization and drama of other writers borrowing upon or enlivening the conventions of heroic fantasy---authors such as Steven Erikson or Matthew Stover come to mind---in many ways the world Duncan has created seems rather flat by comparison. Further, despite the eventual tying together of individual plot threads occurring by novel's end, the first half of the book, broken into long chapters separated both in terms of storyline as well as time and locale, creates a very episodic character within the evolving story, rambling between broad temporal gaps in events and players which causes the narrative to jump about in fits and startsthat I found only partially successful, nor convincingly justified by revelations arriving by book's conclusion, some of which were anticipated. Taken singly, this novel appears to be an instance where cleverness of composition does not fully meet or complement the demands of narrative flow, nor entirely integrates the seemingly diverse and at times temporally enisled story elements. One remains aware of the author's manipulation without being fully persuaded as to his intention. Perhaps when combined with the succeeding novels in this series, the author's episodic approach to unveiling his narrative will reveal an inherent logic, but for the moment this approach seems more an artifice than a natural or innately developing motive that informs or significantly enhances the story. And, when considering this novel as a whole, it becomes impossible to ignore the many better, more fully realized and imaginative tales of heroic or high fantasy that are currently available elsewhere.	2001-05-29
US	52832478	RRX2OQ4J3LZRA	157409114X	63248493	The Celtic Ring	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	Mystery, Sea &amp; Conspiracy	Before making my comments below, I should preface this review by stating that I read this novel while recuperating from oral surgery, and therefore my appreciation of this book may have been influenced by the medications I was taking as well as by lack of sleep and expected interruptions in my attention span. Nonetheless, while engaging in its descriptions of the sea and as an ode to sailing, as well as initially creating and sustaining a sense of suspense and mystery, the conspiracy elements introduced in the novel never became successfully resolved, and at book's end did much to undermine the novel's other strengths, and were I allowed to award half stars, this work, because of this, would have merited only three and a half stars.<br />  The book starts out well enough under dark, threatening skies in the harbor of Dragor, Denmark, the cold, wintry setting and empty, inhospitable sea establishing the perfect milieu for the chance and mysterious encounters that are to propel the main protagonist, Ulf, to undergo a nautical and dangerous journey to Scotland where he will soon find himself involved in murder, secret societies and intrigue. The initial stages of this voyage, undertaken in the midst of winter and involving the potentially deadly crossing of the North Sea, are marvelously detailed and suspenseful in the slow unraveling of the plot, each secret revealed further adding to the evolving mystery, and bringing the protagonist closer and closer, not only to answers but the inherent danger the truth may contain. Between the often gripping perils encountered on the ocean and the increasing and murderous attempts to prevent their quest for answers, suspense builds, the mystery deepens and the reader is compelled toward the final, and what will hopefully be, exciting and climactic conclusion.<br />  However, without giving too much of the narrative away, the resolution of the mystery behind this book is predicated upon the existence of a loose confederation of secret Celtic societies, with hints of ancient rituals and possible magic. While during the bulk of the narrative the potential of a hidden and menacing cult's existence propelling events contributes to both the mystery and suspense building within the novel, the necessary resolution never comes, the identity and motivations of the &quot;cult&quot;---the true nature of the underlying conspiracy---remaining vague and tenuous, hidden within a fog of hints and references as veiled as the mists that physically disguise the setting at book's conclusion. Though it is perhaps unnecessary to entirely unmask the &quot;villains&quot; at book's end, too much is left to conjecture, the conspiracy that has threatened the protagonists throughout, and whose exposure is the purpose behind all their efforts and risks, remaining but for its outline unclear and dissatisfyingly revealed. Despite the book's strengths of characterization, plot and description, the absence of any true resolution to the mystery prevents me from wholeheartedly applauding this novel.<br />  Nonetheless, those who love the sea and sailing, or are intrigued by things Celtic---readers who have admired Erskine Childers to whom this book is an acknowledgment---will find much in this novel to recommend it. The author has deftly drawn his primary characters---Ulf, his friend and sailing companion Torben, MacDuff and the mysterious Mary---creating individual and memorable characters, and the basic foundation of the story and its setting are admirably and often strikingly and beautifully established. There is little question that the author himself is a sailor. And even those who have never sailed or visited the western coast of Scotland will likely wish to re-experience the lochs, the islands and rugged coastline, as well as the slap of the waves on a hull firsthand. Had the author resolved the suspenseful mystery he had created more conclusively, with less plot threads left dangling, this book might have reached the full potential the author had within his grasp. As it is, the sense of mystery is left suspended.<br />  As a final note: when reading this novel I would suggest ignoring the map provided at the book's beginning---it is neither complete nor accurate, and is ultimately more confusing than clarifying. Additionally, be prepared to gloss over some momentary problems, due either to errors in translation or poor editing. They crop up enough to attract notice, but ultimately remain only a minor distraction.	2001-05-27
US	52832478	R146AXP5PDSP4Q	0385492529	282597222	Tides of War: A Novel of Alcibiades and the Peloponnesian War	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Compelling History If Not Always Compelling Fiction	As much a paean to as an condemnation of war and politics, this often compelling novel uses the backdrop of the Peloponnesian War and its central figures, particularly Alcibiades and Socrates, to explore the Greek concepts of demos and empire, individual responsibility and freedom, and the role of necessity upon destiny, by extension reflecting and offering commentary upon our own contemporary notions of these ideas as inherited from our antecedents in Greek culture.  As much an exploration of philosophy or the role of the &quot;great man&quot; as a force of history as a chronicle of combat and events, this novel steps back repeatedly from its ostensible subject of warfare and political conflict to examine and contrast the underlying motives and beliefs driving its central characters, each representing a differing if related view upon the epochal events shaping their lives, all the while begging the question whether they or the events themselves---what Alcibiades calls necessity---are creating the history that follows.  In praise of the author, Pressfield never completely answers the questions he poses, leaving it to the reader to meditate upon and draw his or her own conclusions (though ironically enough it is the secondary if continually reoccurring character of Telamon that closes the author's narrative-draw from that what you will). <br />Admirably recreating the world of Sparta and the Delian League, the reader is at once struck by the differences and similarities between the ancient Greek world and our own, and the author successfully casts a light, not only upon the debates and intrigues of the areopagus, but the more shadowy, less documented ethos of the Thracian plain.  His reenactment of the siege of Syracuse, as well as the assault upon Ephesus, is gripping and descriptively unparalleled.  The suffering of the defeated at Syracuse, as well as Polemides learning of the loss of his second wife, among many moments in the book, are poignantly rendered.  And the author's choice of presenting his tale through the reminiscences of different participants, both verbally and through letters, is cleverly done, allowing the author to touch both broadly and individually upon over twenty-seven years of climactic events within the relatively short span of just over four hundred pages.<br />However, it is this structure of composition that at times places a distance between the reader and the narrative, the shift between characters and events occasionally losing immediacy, as some previous reviewers have suggested, episodically and emotionally distancing the reader from the fictional elements of the story, through the artifice of its narration reminding the reader of the author's presence, failing to efface or entirely disguise those moments where the author wishes to instruct or intellectually weigh the import of his characters' actions or beliefs.  At other times it becomes apparent that certain episodes are not provided so much to embellish the story as to provide a historical framework.  While perhaps necessary, the introduction of this information is often done through the compositional asides of letters or digressions on the part of Jason to provide background to Polemides' narrative, inherently interrupting the fictional development of the latter's story, as well as creating moments of exposition analogous to &quot;meanwhile, elsewhere...&quot;  <br />Considering the scope of the story the author is attempting to unfold within the brief compass of four hundred pages, I am unsure what other avenues the author could have turned to in order to manage the historical framework of his narrative.  And it must be said that within this context he is for the most part successful.  Nonetheless, this success resides more in the detail of historical reconstruction than fictional creation, leading the reader periodically to lose emotional or imaginative involvement with the story, creating a sense of detachment from both events and the characters.  For this reason I have given this novel, as fiction, four stars instead of a full five, though, in all fairness, balancing the author's accomplishments in historical reconstruction, skill of presentation and conceptual intention against the occasional fictional displacement of character and story occurring within the story, this tale easily merits four and a half stars, and is one of the better works of historical fiction encountered over the last several years.  If you enjoy historical fiction, especially accurate and well researched, don't let my qualms deter you.	2001-05-22
US	52832478	RJ2OI2BE1N5WO	0812555325	86307581	Bleak Seasons: Book One of the Glittering Stone (Chronicles of The Black Company)	Books	2	9	13	N	N	In Terms Of Writing An Apt Title	In terms of writing this is by far Cook's weakest outing to date, offering appeal to only the most die hard followers and fans of The Black Company saga. Compositionally, there has been a slow but steady decline in the quality of writing since the precipitous cliffhanger in &quot;Shadow Games,&quot; followed by the slipshod, tattling end to &quot;Dreams of Steel.&quot; While the bulk of the narrative to these books at least offered the usual solidly written if loose, action-driven fare found in previous novels, their narratives undermined only by manipulative, bald and barely credible conclusions, here Cook's style of approach has turned incoherent, rambling and confused.<br />  As an earlier reviewer has noted, in &quot;Bleak Seasons&quot; a shift takes place in perspective, moving from the richer, multiple points of view of previous novels to the singular vantage point of a new annalist, Murgen. Neither the character nor the approach taken in presentation is successful. Compared to Croaker or even Lady, Murgen remains lackluster and hard for the reader to relate to. In large part this is do to the often slack, uncohesive approach that Cook pursues in presenting this character and his narrative, Murgen beset by some vaguely explained nightmare that has him shifting temporally between past, present and future events. In our introduction to the novel, the voice speaking, only after several dozen pages becoming identified as Murgen's, takes the reader through a wandering, barker-like tour of Dejagore, whose siege had been concluded previously in &quot;Dreams of Steel.&quot; Temporally, this is initially confusing, nor are matters truly clarified in the next fifty to eighty pages as Murgen's narrative shifts in and out of the past, sometimes the future, often in a dreamscape where reality remains intangible and events come into question. This manner of storytelling continues to dog the narrative throughout the novel. Perhaps in conception Cook perceived rich possibilities for this approach, but if so, either due to inability or slipshod writing, the author is never able to capitalize upon the resulting tangled, twisted and evasive point of view, with the plot suffering accordingly. Further, personal events, such as Murgen's falling in love with Sahra and her subsequent murder, are handled so briefly and summarily that the reader is unable to develop any real emotional attachment to Cook's newest central character.<br />  Nor does a return to the siege of Dejagore avoid anticlimax. As the reader is already aware of the outcome from &quot;Dreams of Steel,&quot; the rehash of events from within the walls of the city never becomes truly dramatic, enervated even more by Murgen's confused mental state and the shift back and forth between events past and present. The end result is extremely episodic and interruptive, at times devolving into incoherence. And the periodic and unexplained announcements, such as Blade's defection to the Shadowmasters, do little to alleviate the seemingly loosely predicated and often unclear elements of the narrative. There is a lot of exposition taking place here---telling rather than showing---always a potential problem in the author's earlier books, but in this novel running amok, with a lot of extraneous matter, such as One-Eye's arms factories, being dropped upon the reader without either preface or later integration into the story. And, as other reviewers have noted, major characters have undergone changes in personality only briefly touched upon and never fully explained.<br />  While Cook has always played fast and loose with his characters and plots in the past, he at least has been able to maintain some linearity and plausibility in the development of his stories. Here, however, his tale begins to disintegrate into elements that fail to attain coherence or credibility, in large part due to how he has chosen to present his story through the multiple and temporally shifting viewpoints of his narrator. As Murgen's experiences remain attenuated and muddled, so too does the narrative. The end result is a very poorly written book that I nearly abandoned part way through. Only my enjoyment of his previous novels, modest as their entertainment value may have proven, and an accompanying attachment to The Black Company and its characters, provided the will if not the desire to continue on in the hopes that this entry would prove a brief aberration. However, after reading the synopsis of the next installation in Cook's saga---&quot;She Is The Darkness&quot;---it would appear that the author has chosen to persist in pursuing Murgen's multiple, temporally shifting viewpoints. As Cook was unsuccessful in his efforts here, I can't say I am excited by the prospect of his continuing this device in the future, and will likely leave this series until I have exhausted other resources of reading. This is a shame, as the earlier books of The Black Company were entertaining, if rather light and facile in reward.<br /> <br />Had I been allowed, this book would only at best have merited one and a half stars; I'm being generous with two as this is one of the worst books I have read in the past several years. While I am sure there exists poorer fare out there, I am certainly in no rush to encounter them. The only unequivocally good thing I can say about this book is that at least Tor or the author have chosen to find a new cover artist---the previous artwork was appallingly bad.	2001-05-18
US	52832478	R3BBV818W4PQUE	0812502108	704451407	Dreams of Steel (The Fifth Chronicle of the Black Company)	Books	3	10	10	N	N	Standard Cook Outing Marred By Sloppy Ending	The last &quot;Book of the South&quot; is really not a conclusion at all, but a segue into the four books comprising to date &quot;The Glittering Stone.&quot; Despite arguments between earlier reviewers as to whether this book represents a departure from his earlier novels, I found this to be fairly typical Black Company fare, regardless of the introduction of Indian religion or who was keeping the Annals. Cook has previously written from multiple perspectives, and the increase here only offers the potential for a richer character development and perspective, complaints of not caring for characters other than Croaker, One-Eye and Goblin speaking more to the limitations of interest in individual readers than a desire on the part of the writer to enliven or enrich his narrative. The same might be said of the recent inclusion of Southeastern Asian mythology and religion, were Cook not so bald in his borrowings. I can think of other authors who have recently drawn from this source---Steven Erikson or more pointedly Martha Wells in &quot;Wheel of the Infinite---who have done a far better job recontextualizing their sources. But if concerns over derivatives primarily influenced our thinking, it is doubtful any of us would be reading The Black Company.<br />  There are other reasons one turns to this series---the delightful if by now typecast crew of scoundrels, the fast-paced and action-driven narrative and Cook's not to be undervalued ability at rapidly stringing us along through a sequence of events direct if relatively uncomplicated in their presentation. True, the author does mix it up with intrigue, but all the various plots stay relatively at the surface, what mystery that is present most often due to a lack of information than a true building of suspense. But for those moments when one wishes sheer, unadulterated avenues of escape guised as heroic fantasy, more often than not Cook delivers.<br />  However, in this entry Cook fails to resolve his narrative even as acredible cliffhanger. Instead he summarily and loosely ties up the various threads, even while rushing leaving most of them still dangling, and, without giving too much away, introduces certain new dramatic developments from a distance, announcing them and then simply discarding them in a couple of pages. There is a sense here that the author suddenly wished to wrap up this chapter of the saga and move on to other narrative pastures, even while leaving as well as adding things hanging. The fact that a six-year hiatus followed before the author again picked up the story reinforces this conclusion. However, this is sheer speculation. All I can say is that the end of this novel is abrupt and very dissatisfying, as much so if for different reasons as the extreme cliffhanger that concluded &quot;Shadow Games.&quot; I have come to accept that Cook plays fast and loose with his plots and characters, often resurrecting them, remining earlier storylines or conventions, or introducing elements without clear explanation or motive. Nonetheless, in the past these failings have largely been able to be submerged by the author's relative strengths in story telling and non-stop management of action. This however left me cold and questioning the author's investment in his story and audience, unavoidably raising questions as to my own continued participation.<br />  But for the conclusion, this is typical Cook fare, with all the usual rewards and weaknesses. For that reason I have given it the same marks I've given to his previous novels, in the main not seeing a substantial shift, either for better or worse, in what is being offered. However, were I to weight the ending, this book would not be the equal, nor would &quot;Shadow Games,&quot; of what has preceded. While I am not abandoning the series, the next book will need to prove to me that the author is once again committed to the Company.	2001-05-14
US	52832478	R3SMND7JQNS9DJ	0812533828	771517666	Shadow Games: The Fourth Chronicles of the Black Company: First Book of the South	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Glen Goes For The Cliffhanger	And what a cliffhanger! In past books, despite being part of a series, each has had a sense of resolution, a clear delineation between episodes. Not so here, with an ending so bald and precipitous one could almost imagine The Howler wailing in his grave. If you are following this series, be prepared to buy both &quot;Shadow Games&quot; and the following volume &quot;Dreams of Steel&quot; together, otherwise you will certainly discover yourself cursing the walls sometime in the middle of the night.<br />  As already hinted as well as revealed by an earlier reviewer, Cook again turns to blithely resurrecting previous characters. I say again, for unlike the previous reviewer's comments, as those of you who have been following the series from the beginning should recognize, raising the dead has become a common Cook convention, previously encountered in the multiple reappearances of the Limper, Raven and Bommanz. That this should occur again here with other thought to be deceased characters should by now come as no surprise. Cook has always displayed a predilection for playing fast and loose with his plots and storylines. Nor do I feel this work is a departure or decline from his earlier novels, only more of the same standard fast-paced, swiftly rendered fare we've come to expect of the author, work that can be enjoyable as long as not too closely scrutinized. Complaints here about a lack of character development seem inapt, as since when have the majority of Cook's characters been anything more than mere cartoonish cutouts?<br />  Despite the tone of criticism evidenced here, I continue to read and largely enjoy this series, turning to it when I am seeking light diversion. For such moments Cook's writing continues to be entirely successful, providing a cast of heroes and villains in adventures that while in many ways conventional and similar, make up in action and fast-paced fun for what they lack in imagination or depth of development. Like the characters and plots ofmany of the spaghetti westerns or samurai movies, they hold the same attraction when recycled as Star Wars: sheer escape and better rendered than most of the other conventional fare out there. But if you're looking for original ideas or development of story, imaginative world building or depth of characterization and description, you'd be advised to look elsewhere. Cook's outings to date have not compared with other authors such as Marcos, Martin, Stover, or Erikson with whom his work has been broadly linked.<br />  If you are a fan of traditional heroic fantasy, and looking for something to fill the void while awaiting new offerings from the authors mentioned above---looking for the American equivalent of, say, David Gemmell---this series, as long as you are not too demanding, will likely not disappoint. Uncomplicated, energetic and fun, written in a style never pretending to be what it is not.	2001-05-12
US	52832478	R1F7G019UGITF8	0345421450	46634992	Heroes Die	Books	4	17	20	N	N	Fans Of Glen Cook Should Be Thrilled...	But then again, maybe not. Matthew Stover is using the mercenary anti-hero to explore social and existential issues that Glen Cook so far has proven for the most part reluctant to pursue. And Stover's assassin-protagonist---his symbolic role loudly announced by the stage name Caine---is a conflicted character that grows in ways that Cook's cast never achieves, the players and worlds here a vehicle that blurs and pushes the boundaries of the genre, despite the similarities of fast-paced action and gritty milieu, taking this novel to a creative and darkly realized realm that by comparison is metaphorically dizzying. Few unexamined moments here, and despite the almost non-stop, grim and graphic pull of conflict and action, there's a lot more going on here than simple combat and hack and slash adventure.<br />  As has been noted elsewhere, Caine is an Actor who actually lives his role, a resident of some human future in which, creatively recontextualizing and extending earlier ideas contained in works such as &quot;The Running Man&quot; or the film &quot;Rollerball,&quot; and topically reflected in the current popularity of so-called &quot;reality&quot; television such as &quot;Survivor,&quot; residents live out fantasy adventures on the parallel and magically endowed world of Ankhana vicariously through virtual reality adventures of a star-system transported to a largely medieval realm. Despite the obvious entertainment value for the audience of experiencing another world instantaneously through the eyes, experiences and actions of the Actors, there is a dark side to this theater verite, a blurring of imagination and reality in which outside, invisible and largely commercially indifferent interests are controlling both the players and the set, somewhat analogous to the projected introduction of the 60's television series, &quot;The Outer Limits.&quot; Everyone involved become just puppets in a ratings driven play, the sale of virtual adventures determining the action as well as the experiences of both participants and audience. The ultimate vision, instead of invigorating is chilling, revealing a dark and disturbing mirror onto our own potential escape into entertainment, which in part even the reading of fantasy has become. The author is directing his social criticism and commentary not only at our own entertainment industry, but in many ways at the genre itself.<br />  This is at once ironically entertaining as well as thought-provoking, the title of this novel itself hinting at the author's desire to debunk not only the human illusion of the heroic reflected over and over in movies and television, but the conventions of high fantasy itself. This is in part an examination of escapism, while at the same time a dark examination of society and an exploration of more existential and philosophical issues disguised within the garb of heroic fantasy. As an earlier reviewer has noted, the author does not always take these explorations to a full or satisfying conclusion, at times hinting at ideas to come that never actually arrive. Nonetheless, the author is to be applauded for exploring ideas and topics not usually found in the typical fantasy, bringing to the genre a conceptual weight and substance usually found lacking. This is not your usual quest or tale of magic: the author's aims are far more literary and complex.<br />I was referred to this novel by a new column offered on the sfsite, contributed by Gabriel Chouinard. This column is being used to present readers with works written by what the columnist calls &quot;The Next Wave,&quot; a reference to writers such as Michael Moorcock, Philip Jose Farmer, and Philip K. Dick that were hailed in the 60's and 70's as the &quot;New Wave&quot; for their creative and often revolutionary impact upon the stale tropes coming out of 50's speculative fiction. Whether one agrees with Mr. Chouinard's opinions or not---I personally continue to enjoy the better offerings of high fantasy, despiteits well-worn conventions---his column offers recommendations of newer and significant authors whose work is less well-known, and whose aims are well beyond that of the epic, more conventional doorstopper fantasy of Jordan or George R.R. Martin. These newer authors, such as Matt Stover, Michael Swanwick, Paul Witcover, to name a few, or especially, in my opinion, China Mieville, should be on the reading lists of anyone seriously interested in speculative fiction, regardless of their personal tastes or preferences. Mr. Chouinard's column offers an excellent reference and discussion.<br />  While &quot;Heroes Die&quot; is written as a stand-alone, I have noted that a sequel has been released, &quot;The Blade of Tyshalle.&quot; I for one certainly intend to read it in the near future.	2001-05-10
US	52832478	R3UE2N26P1IMO0	0060199563	461879486	Thief of Time	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Terry Pratchett Continues On A Roll	Pratchett has been on a roll since &quot;Fifth Elephant,&quot; following several, by Pratchett's standards, lackluster and mediocre offerings such as &quot;Jingo&quot; or &quot;Last Continent&quot; (I know, I know: such a statement will lead the jingoists among you into heightened fits of indignant choler and impassioned vilification.  But come on, after 26 Discworld novels let's admit not every outing can be a singular stroke of genius), rapidly turning out three outstanding novels in a row, &quot;Fifth Elephant&quot; followed close on the heels by &quot;Truth&quot; and now &quot;Thief of Time.&quot;  While some might argue that Pratchett has abandoned his earlier and more forthright humor, I would agree that his plotting has become marvelously much tighter, and his sense of satire increasingly deft and subtle.  Yes, the puns and parodic gymnastics continue, but no longer are they providing the main support to Pratchett's compositions.  Instead, the author is providing more and more layers of depth to his novels, probing and exposing existential and ontological issues in ways only glimpsed or hinted at in his earliest novels.<br />The thing that is in many ways amazing in the continued development and improvement of Pratchett's writing is that it is accomplished within the format of formula.  Pratchett writes in a manner and structure that is linearly and closely linked to his earliest novels, repeatedly returning to previous tropes and conventions yet, with the exception of a few novels, continually refining, expanding and reinvigorating his formulas, somehow able to keep them for the most part fresh and engaging.  Even when he turns to what is an obvious cliched stereotype---the wise, old self-effacing Eastern monk/sweeper Lu-Tze and his naive apprentice---Pratchett is able to reinvest the character and role in a guise at once familiar and inventively rendered.  In the hands of anyone else the figure of Lu-Tze would come off trite and outworn, but Pratchett is somehow able to re-infuse the character with significance and fresh perspective despite the anticipated behavior and acting out of a role long cliched and tired.<br />As in most Pratchett novels, we revisit old and fondly remembered characters---Death and his granddaughter Susan, the Four---no Five---Horseman, Nanny Ogg, the Igors and, not seen since &quot;Small Gods,&quot; the Monks of History.  But the book is centered---if any book by Pratchett can be said to have a center---around the not quite brotherly reflections, Jeremy Clockson and Lopsang Lud, the nature of Time, identity and how we measure it (oops, I used a grey word), the end of the world and, perhaps most importantly, the delights and unavoidable, passionate consumption of chocolate.  And this is just skimming a summary.  It might be argued that in &quot;Thief of Time&quot; Pratchett explores more than in any previous novel---I can't recall absolutely for certainty---and does so with a subtlety and skill not before accomplished.<br />That said---floating out on a limb alongside Quoth the Raven, or mayhaps digging a pit with Death of Rats...Squeak!---as is apparent from any reading of Pratchett's many reviews, the author's fans---a legion continuously and rightly growing---all have individual and highly vocalized opinions as to the best of Pratchett's work.  Regardless, they are almost all good, and well above the standard lining the retailer's shelves.  If you haven't read Pratchett before, you're in for a rollicking thrill, and if you have, no need to fear you'll be disappointed.  Another marvelous outing from our contemporary Swift.	2001-05-10
US	52832478	R349LE0C9A4SQ5	0380730464	631570921	The Iron Dragon's Daughter	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Much To Recommend Here...	But 250 pages into the book I put it down and went on to something else.  As other reviewers have indicated, this is a complex, often difficult and demanding read that after a while lost my interest primarily because of the peripatetic plotline in which I felt the narrative becoming too subsumed by the  tangled and at times seemingly disconnected conceptual elements of the novel.  While others have seemed to find this approach to narrative construction laudable, and while it would appear that the author ties up his multiple thought strands at conclusion, I found the book's manner of presentation created an imbalance in the story elements, too many episodic subplots and abstract references existing separately and parenthetically to provide a solid narrative foundation upon which to build a satisfying story.  My mind was occupied, but not my engagement.  While I suppose this could be chalked up to simply a matter of taste, I would argue that fictionally ideas require an edifice of story equal in depth and narrative power to its mental constructs.  After a time this tale seemed far too mentally top heavy, with the necessary fictional foundation---the overall story---collapsing beneath the mental weight.  As some have implied this to be the rewards of a literary intention rarely found in fantasy fiction, I would suggest that other authors with similar goals and expression---M. John Harrison, China Mieville, Mervyn Peake, Jonathan Carroll or even Patricia McKillip---have been far more successful, providing both an engaging story as well as intellectual explorations that do not evolve into preponderant abstraction.<br />That said, the author certainly provides ample imaginative episodes and description, building an intriguing otherworld that parodies our own, a chilling blend of the magical and mechanistic in which the story draws and often perverts a potpourri of folklore and fairie, full of satirical moments, sometimes grim, sometimes humorous, and social criticism.  These elements, often delightfully rendered, for a time carried me along in the story, though ultimately proved not enough individually to  support the lack of sustained narrative flow.  As others have commented, this is an exploration of coming of age perceived through a lens of alternate reality that provides a very different focus on the struggle to achieve identity and individual freedom through a variant yet relevant revelation.  Unfortunately, the manner in which this is achieved, as an earlier reviewer mentions, keeps one at an emotional distance from the main character.  Once again, the mind is engaged, but not the heart or spirit.<br />I suspect, as can be seen from previous praise---this novel was listed as a &quot;notable book&quot; by the New York Times upon publication---that many will find this work stimulating, and there is little question that it offers abstract and intellectual pleasures, replete with mental games and conundrums such as the Spiral Castle and science presented as alchemy.  But I also suspect that the audience will ultimately prove to be limited, as this is a novel not about story but about the presentation of ideas loosely and tangentially wrapped in the guise of narrative fiction.	2001-05-09
US	52832478	R1PMMBQLB6EEN4	0767405013	222815983	Hands in Clay	Books	5	79	80	N	N	Comprehensive Reference To Ceramics	This became one of those costly book purchases students have come to resent: required for an introductory level class in ceramics, part of the core requirements towards a studio degree, expensively imposed on a class the bulk of whom will never continue on in ceramics, therefore ultimately destined to become a neglected text sitting on a dusty shelf or returned during university book buy-back for a pittance.  This is a shame, as the book is one of the more comprehensive and beautifully put together texts of its kind, and had it been required of students whose clear intention was to go on in ceramics, its obligatory purchase would have been more valued and appreciated.<br />Containing information well beyond the scope of an introductory survey of ceramic processes, this book is densely packed with information, providing a historical and cultural overview of the use and development of one of the most ancient of the arts, as well as detailed discussions of its various forms and construction, the mixing of clays, the necessary chemistry, kilns, and clay's many glazings and firings.  Appendixes and charts containing quite a number of recipes for both mixing clay and creating slips, colorants and glazes are provided at the back, encouraging experimentation, as well as a basic description of the chemical constituents encountered in ceramics.  In terms of the latter, both within the text and the appendixes, concerns of potential toxicity are highlighted, providing valuable and essential information often overlooked when working with the potentially hazardous components present in most clays and colorants.  Additionally, the authors provide encouragement as to how to easily recycle the environmentally unfriendly waste by-products associated with ceramics, along with helpful tips as to how to set up one's studio in a way that is at once utilitarian and environmentally sound, offering a list of governmental agencies and associations that can assist the ceramicist in addressingthese concerns.  In addition to providing through the appendixes further avenues for exploration on the part of those working with clay, the authors must be applauded for not ignoring or obfuscating the obvious safety and environmental concerns involved in working with ceramics.<br />Well organized and detailed, the text is also liberally endowed with photographs and drawings, providing clear visual examples of both the equipment and techniques the ceramicist may encounter, as well as beautiful color plates showing contemporary examples of noted artists' work using a variety of forms and processes.  These plates exemplify the diverse and often stunning manner of expression that can be captured in clay, ranging from the sculptural and painterly to installation and multimedia.  Their inclusion, along with the depth and breadth of information presented here, certainly justify the price asked for this text, and this book should grace the library or studio of any serious student or practitioner of ceramics.  And, I suspect, there is enough information provided here to allow the student that has access to a studio and equipment to begin learning ceramics without the necessity of a classroom.	2001-04-28
US	52832478	R23QLVMXVE5GGM	0380710811	272869729	The First Man in Rome	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Outstanding Historical Novel Marred Only By Pedestrian Prose	A Roman history professor recently made the bold statement that reading one of Colleen McCullough's historical novels of Rome would provide me with more understanding of Roman history during the period of the Revolution than listening to any fifty of his lectures.  I must admit I was surprised, having always associated the author with melodramatic period romances, such as &quot;The Thornbirds.&quot;  Nonetheless, even discounting for dramatic exaggeration on the part of the professor, there is little doubt that Ms. McCullough has lovingly and lavishly endowed this novel with all the historical accuracy, research and detail that could be demanded of her subject, and should in large part satisfy even the most rigorous of historical readers, bringing the Republic during the crucial period of Marius' consulships to life.  Not only are all the major political participants of this period clearly portrayed, but the day to day quality of life is revealed in detail, from the tribal customs of the Cimbri and Tuetones, the impoverishment of the Subura, to the varying struggles of Roman women to establish a viable and meaningful role for themselves within the male-dominated society of Rome.  This is a tale as much about personal triumphs and tragedies as it is about the larger stage of military and political intrigue and events, including both the petty and the grandiose, and often poignantly rendered.  It is the beginning of an ongoing and evolving epic series that should appeal to a broad audience that should include historians, fans of historical fiction, or even the more literary and historically minded readers of fantasy.  For its depiction and recreation of Roman society and history I cannot commend it more highly, and the maps, personally-drawn portraits of some of the characters, and the almost 150 page glossary and guide to pronunciation, with its translation of the cognomenative meaning, is a delight, especially for those of us intrigued with word play and derivation.<br />However, as other reviewers have accurately noted---&quot;jeffergray,&quot; &quot;jaxjin&quot; and &quot;a reader from Marietta&quot;---Ms. McCullough's prose does not always rise to the epic level of her subject, more workman-like than accomplished, often somewhat stilted, and the author's writing here would never by described as stylish or particularly masterful in narrative flow.  Further, the reader should be prepared during the first hundred pages of the novel for the necessary establishment of background and events that enervate somewhat the opening pages of the narrative.  And, as already pointed out by one of the reviewers above, the repeated use of letters to provide background or description of events quickly becomes a recognizable artifice far from elegant in its use.  Nonetheless, the author's prose is written with the requisite craftsmanship and skill to serve and support her story, and I suspect that only the more literary-minded among us will notice the at times stiff or awkward composition, most quickly coming to ignore or overlook her sentence construction compared to the obvious captivation and compelling quality of her story.<br />Four more novels continue the history begun here---&quot;The Grass Crown,&quot; &quot;Fortune's Favorites,&quot; &quot;Caesar's Women,&quot; and &quot;Caesar&quot;---and suspicion exists that the author will continue the series up to and including the ascension of Octavion and the start of the Principate.  If so, &quot;The Masters of Rome&quot; series will provide an outstanding and more historically accurate segue into Robert Graves' &quot;I, Claudius&quot; and &quot;Claudius the God,&quot; a true masterpiece of historical fiction, far more consummately written if, based as it is upon Suetonius' delightful, titillating but often spurious &quot;Lives of the Twelve Caesars,&quot; less factual accounting of the reigns of the Julio-Claudians.  Any even with a remote interest in Roman history should be enthralled and delighted.	2001-04-27
US	52832478	RUGJ54CUUAL9J	031213486X	413821175	The Encyclopedia of Science Fiction	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The Essential Reference Of Science Fiction	Along with its companion volume, &quot;The Encyclopedia of Fantasy,&quot; the editors offer the most comprehensive references currently available on speculative fiction, covering authors both minor and major, discussion of the impact of writers and their works upon the genre, influences both obvious and obscure, as well as erudite observations upon the history and development of imaginative fiction.  And this is but a fraction of all this marvelous reference has to offer!  Indispensable to either the devotee of the genre or the casual reader, this text, along with its companion, should grace the shelves of anyone seriously interested in science fiction or literature.  As with most references of this scope, already it is beginning to become out of date, lacking entries for newer and already significant authors, such as China Mieville, but one can hope a new edition will soon be in the offing.  I know I will rush out to buy it, and in the meantime there is more than enough information here to occupy and entrance me for many months to come.  If you read science fiction regularly, shame on you if you don't own this book.	2001-04-18
US	52832478	RG8YSXYK5D4NZ	0812549295	824383540	The Wood Wife (Fairy Tales)	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Haunting Tale That Captures The Sonoran Desert	I have been to Tuscon only once, but Terri Windling's tale brought the Sonoran desert town and its surrounding mountains back to life, stirring reminiscences of the sparse yet magical landscape in which the ever-sprawling and ever-growing urban, and thus increasingly incongruous, city is nestled.  Through her words I was again able to travel the streets and canyons of Tuscon and the Rincons, experiencing the heat and dust of summer and sandy, dry washes, seeing again the stately, suggestively sentient assembly of saguaro, the ephemeral, blood-red blooms of the ocotillo.  And, yes, viewing the saguaro one can truly believe Maria Rosa's bedtime story that at night, when no one is looking, the saguaro gather to dance.  In the imagination, Terri Windling has beautifully and magically captured the Sonoran desert with her prose.<br />While I in part agree with M. Weaver's demanding yet incisive observations, I cannot concur with the harshness of his final ranking and conclusions.  True, the book is to a degree somewhat loose of structure, with elements, such as the characters of the Alders, Angelina and Isabella, Tomas only partially realized, seeming to drift in and out of the narrative as needed, their roles only hinted at and never fully realized or completely integrated.  The relationship and purposes of the mages, as well as certain other magical elements, are hinted at, but as often as not never clearly revealed as to their true import upon events, remaining as incompletely visible as the spirits seen in the smoke of Tomas' or John's vision fires.  And the death of one of the minor spirits at the end seems largely extraneous.  But the author has successfully recreated the mystery and underlying magic that should be sensed by anyone walking the arroyos or mountains surrounding Tuscon, a presence felt but eluding exact perception.  Perhaps, as in the best of poems that Windling exalts and draws upon in her narrative, meaning is meant to remain elusive, multifaceted and open to interpretation, echoing rather than stating.  I don't believe it was the author's intention to define her realm of &quot;fairy,&quot; thus demystifying the world of the spirit, as to provide with beauty a glimpse of its mystery.  In this she is entirely successful.<br />I feel, despite the truth of many of M. Weaver's criticisms, that the reviewer has perhaps turned too academically critical an eye at this work, creating categories---&quot;urban fantasy,&quot; &quot;Celtic&quot; versus &quot;southwestern&quot; mythology---that ignores much of the emotional and magical tone that uplifts this novel from the ordinary fantasy however one wishes to define or classify it.  The author's prose is sure, descriptively beautiful, and obviously heartfelt.  If one is willing to suspend for a moment one's often overly analytical eye, and simply experience the story as it unfolds, sharing more in common with narrative folklore than the rarified or intellectual aims of literate fiction, recognizing the inherent simplicity present in traditional folklore regardless of any psychological or symbolic message often disguised beneath, I believe the reader will discover a wonderful and delightfully recreated version of the modern day fairy tale that captures both the tone and intention of its original antecedents.  Nor is this work without its share of hidden import or meaning.  Highly recommended and well deserving of its awards---even acknowledging M. Weaver's criticisms, four and a half stars.	2001-04-13
US	52832478	R3R1M4SQNCV43M	0138965986	114675884	A History of the Roman People	Books	5	35	35	N	N	The Definitive Standard Survey Of The Roman People	As a previous reviewer has noted, this is the standard text for any survey study of the Roman state and people.  Well and concisely written, this is the place to start for anyone seeking a broad review of the history of the Roman state, from its legendary and archeological inception to the last days of Justinian.  Clearly organized and, unlike some other books written to satisfy the requirements of the undergraduate classroom, presented in a style that will satisfy both the casual as well as historically trained reader, this text broadly and completely covers the essential events, figures and characteristics of the social, political, cultural and military developments that define the Roman civilization from its birth in legend to its political decline and transformation during the rule of the Dominate, eventually evolving into the Romanized societies and political entities that were to define and characterize the early Middle Ages.  If there is any criticism that can be leveled at this work, it is only regarding the price, though if you visit your local university bookstore, it is likely you can find a clean used copy at a cost more commensurate with what should be expected.	2001-04-13
US	52832478	R3H5XK1AQ75SWW	0812502205	867051463	The Silver Spike: The Chronicles of the Black Company	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Pure, Unadulterated Entertainment	Despite my ranking above, I really enjoy this series, turning to it when I am seeking pure, pleasurable and unabashed entertainment. Additionally, the series seems to be improving, and were I allowed, I would have given this outing 3.5 stars. Nonetheless, despite my enjoyment, this book, as has its predecessors, does not possess the depth of characterization or breadth of world building of the best, nor is its plot line particularly complex, driven along essentially by fast paced action that on occasion is propelled or changed through convenient coincidence, or altered almost at a whim. Cook has no difficulty involving his participants in events with scant explanation or substantiation, or introducing new characters that appear and as abruptly---sometimes inexplicably---disappear (cases in point here are Exile and Raven's two children). Nor let it be said that the author, once finished with a character or a scene, wastes words on situations or players that are spent---Bear Torque's death is learned only through a process of elimination while his brother simply walks away off the pages. At times the narrative seems as though it is being strung together as one goes along---in this book as in the previous &quot;White Rose,&quot; the protagonists bounce back and forth all over the world essentially chasing each others' tails---and the author never hesitates if it will serve his purpose to resurrect a character from the dead: here, as previously with Raven, Limper rises again for at least the third time, and at book's end there still exists the possibility that we could one day see him again, at least as a visitor from another dimension. In like fashion, the author blithely borrows from his own established conventions, such as here drawing again from a journal though written by a different character that, despite his more impoverished background, nonetheless closely mimics Croaker both in style and tone of writing. Nonetheless, as long as one does not approach this series with too exacting a demand that events unfold following a certain rational and logical evolution, but instead allow the action and the many likeable scoundrels populating the narrative to carry the story along, one will enjoy many short hours simply and entertainingly spent.<br />Previous reviewers have already noted that this novel wraps up many of the threads left dangling after the conclusion of &quot;The White Rose, bringing the stories of Darling, Raven, Silent, Toadkiller Dog and Bomanz to an end (though, again, in the case of the latter, Toadkiller Dog is implied to be almost invincible, and Bomanz was supposedly dead at the conclusion of the last book, so who knows---maybe we'll see them again). Unlike some of the others, I read this book after &quot;The White Rose&quot; and, even without having read &quot;Shadow Games,&quot; had no trouble following the story. They are correct, however, that despite this book's appearance as a stand-alone novel, it does directly follow events established in the first three books in the series, and the reader will be lost without having begun there.<br />Regardless of my criticisms, I am thoroughly enjoying this series, especially this work and the earlier &quot;Shadows Linger.&quot; Cook has created a delightful and amoral cast of distinctive if comparatively attenuated characters and uses them to good advantage to forward a pithy, often satirical and cynical world view, where great things happen as much by accident and despite the protagonists' intentions as by design. Fast paced, where the action rarely leaves you flagging, direct and uncomplicated in its appeal, read this when you are looking for a welcome respite from the volumes and volumes of dense, doorstopper fantasy.	2001-04-09
US	52832478	R3IW8B1MKXQI5I	0312890729	318023725	King Rat	Books	3	40	46	N	Y	Modest  Compared To &quot;Perdido Street Station&quot;	After reading Mieville's phenomenal &quot;Perdido Street Station&quot; I rushed right out to buy his first novel, &quot;King Rat.&quot;  I could have delayed my haste.  While also stylish and distinctively written, this dark, urban fantasy, compared to his second work, is a rough cut, much more loosely written and barely approaching the wonders or skill of writing present in the following novel.  While I may be grudging of comment by comparison, &quot;Perdido Street Station&quot; is a masterpiece of speculative fiction, whereas &quot;King Rat&quot; reads as a someways good but fledgling effort.  In many respects there is little to distinguish it from early Charles De Lint, though Mieville comes across here as more hip and involved with the music he provides as an underlying theme.<br />While certainly a departure from the ordinary fantasy, written with a degree of verve and suspense, drawing, as another reviewer has stated, upon the folklore of the Piper of Hamelin and tales of the rat king, placed within the context of modern day London and its vibrant, in part underground music scene, this tale lacks both the riveting use of language and the vivid world creation found in the author's second novel. Unlike &quot;Perdido Street Station,&quot; as others have additionally noted, here the characters remain relatively flat, perhaps in part intentionally reflecting the cartoon characters referenced in the novel.  As earlier stated, more loosely written and evolved, the cord of metaphor underlying the basic storyline never seems as fully integrated or realized as in Mieville's second novel, unable to entirely lift the tale above the surface of its active, running narrative, or significantly set it apart from other and equally skilled writers of urban fantasy.<br />Though I suspect fans of urban fantasy may find my observations too harsh, or critical by comparison, it is doubtful had I even  not read &quot;Perdido Street Station&quot; that I would have been enamoured with this novel.  Good but far from great, this is a very respectable first effort that should be applauded for what it attempts, even if not entirely successful.  One catches glimpses of the brilliance later displayed and captured fully in &quot;Perdido Street Station,&quot; as well as the author's desire to push speculative fiction beyond its normal boundaries.  Nonetheless, I can only give this effort at best three and a half stars.	2001-04-06
US	52832478	R1V13FXFN5BCYY	0345443020	981903971	Perdido Street Station (Bas-Lag)	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Should Secure Mieville's Preeminence In Speculative Fiction	When an author acknowledges M.John Harrison and Mervyn Peake as sources of inspiration, one has cause to grow excited.  And this novel certainly delivers on its promise.  In broad terms fantasy, it blends elements of science fiction and horror into a dark and brooding cityscape as much a character of the novel as the labyrinthine corridors of &quot;Gormenghast&quot; or the haunting, spectral-lit streets of &quot;Viriconium.&quot;  Blending the industrial decay and squalor of Philip Dick's &quot;Bladerunner&quot; with a society and landscape almost medieval in tone, the city of New Crobuzon rises upon a foundation of refuse, intrigue and urban wonder in which the bizarre is at one with the ordinary, at once familiar and alien, delightfully and vividly rendered.  And the city is as much alive, a breathing, often strange and always inseparable presence, as any of the narrative's marvelously wrought characters.<br />The narrative is inhabited by a diverse, often bizarre and multi-ethnic cast of characters, almost perversely Dickensian in scope, ranging from the grotesqueries of the Remade to the horrifyingly beautiful and ethereal slake-moths, sentience found both in the mechanical as well as races neither entirely animal nor human.  Religion is a masque macabre and society a squalid pageant, both parody and pathos, with dignity and courage found often in unlikely places.  It is a world as hypnotically rendered and richly textured as the wings of the slake-moths, and should equally hold the reader enthralled.  Its conclusion is both bittersweet and unexpected.<br />None of this would succeed were it not for the imaginative, vivid and exceptional writing of the author.  New Crobuzon and its denizens are beautifully and descriptively rendered, with a use of language that equals the wonders that are being wrought.  The author's writing skills stand apart from those of his contemporaries, immediately distinguishing him as one of speculative fiction's best literary stylists,head and shoulders above the majority of the genre's writers.  Nor is this a simple tale, existing just on the surface of events.  While it can be read simply for the pleasure provided in the unfolding narrative, the conflicts of its characters and building of its world, there is far more going on just below the surface, like the underworld of the city, waiting for those who wish to look beyond the architecture and its characters for the more metaphoric and subliminal messages.  This is a book that will reward both recreational and intellectual pleasures.<br />Without doubt one of the finest works of speculative fiction I have encountered over almost a half century of reading, and unique in its creation.	2001-04-01
US	52832478	R3MJQM0QLXR5AS	0380978954	476581890	The Truth: A Novel of Discworld	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Worthy Successor To Fifth Elephant	Following close on the heals of &quot;The Fifth Elephant,&quot; Terry Pratchett has again turned in an equally outstanding performance with &quot;The Truth.&quot;  Parodying and poking fun at everything from the homeless to the patrician rich, enterprise, technology, the law and the fifth estate---the news and the olds---Pratchett is nothing if not an equal opportunity satirist.  Many of the series' favorite characters---Commander Vimes and the Watch, the Patrician, Gasparode and Ole Foul Ron---are here, but center stage is occupied by the introduction of three new players to the series, William de Worde, Sacharissa and the vampire iconographer, Otto Chriek, who I hope we will see more of, especially the latter, since as archetypes they possess fecund roles for the future.  Additionally, two of the most memorable scoundrels of Pratchett's many pageants arrive in the form of Mr. Tulip and Mr. Pin, with the former's unexpected and refined appreciation and criticism of art a particular delight.  But in many ways, as in all of Pratchett's novels, the ultimate kudos for performances go to his rich and jaundiced cast of secondary players, from Cut-Me-Own-Throat Dibbler to the multiple personalities of Altogether Andrews.  One wonders whether Captain Carrot and Sergeant Angua will ever come out of the kennel...er, closet...and the life of every social occasion, Death, makes a rare if somewhat somber appearance.<br />There is a serious side hidden beneath all this fun, perhaps best if humorously revealed in the fates awaiting Mr. Tulip and Mr. Pin.  It is not the instrument of evil that is ultimately held most to account, but the mind that sets it in motion.  This theme is echoed in William's confrontation with Lord de Worde, as well as hinted at in oblique references to the Patrician and the pontifical role played by Mr. Mackleduff around the breakfast table.  Pratchett here turns a critical eye towards bigotry, as well as the temporal and largely relative nature found inthe use of words and their extension as truth.  However, if you chuckle it can easily be lost in the laughter.<br />Another marvelous outing from one of literature's finest satirists.  Certainly our modern day Swift or Carroll, and highly, highly recommended to any reader, regardless of their taste in the mirth.	2001-03-21
US	52832478	RN4CQK022W1YS	0312869932	301253063	White as Snow (Fairy Tale Series)	Books	4	17	21	N	Y	Dark, Adult Recontextualization Of Snow White	The newest entry in Terri Windling's &quot;Fairy Tale Series,&quot; this loose adaptation and borrowing from the &quot;Snow White&quot; folk tale is Lee's third visit to this story for material, her earlier retellings being the short stories &quot;Red as Blood&quot; and &quot;Snow-Drop.&quot;  Here the outline of the original story is largely removed, presented loosely and at a distance, elements such as the seven dwarves, the mirror and the murderous jealousy of Snow White's stepmother recontextualized to address darker and more modern themes, as well as explore the psychological aspects present in traditional mythology.<br />In many ways this is a story that explores and reveals the damage caused by sexual and emotional abuse, both of women and of children, the psychology of victimization which, as another reviewer has stated, causes the main protagonists to exist in an uneasy narrative world of indifference and self deprecation.  At times it is difficult for the reader to truly relate emotionally with Lee's characters, but I suspect this is in part the author's intention, to force the reader into the deadening psychological and emotional world of victimization caused by rape and emotional child abuse.  While there is an overall and depressing tone of hopelessness and lack of empowerment throughout the narrative, the book's conclusion ends on a note of redemption, despite the ugliness and depravity attending its circumstance.  This is not, however, a novel for the emotionally or spiritually weak of heart, and I imagine that the traditional reader of fantasy will not find this tale to their taste, offering a story that is slight of action and is neither obvious in its moral or thematic aspects---any heroic elements are hidden from easy and casual observation.<br />It will prove helpful to the reader for if they are familiar with the traditional and often disguised themes of folklore (in part here they will be helped here by the marvelous introduction offered by Terri Windling), as well as the symbolisms inherent in the Demeter/Persephone cycle of mythology, the triple aspects of the goddess discussed in Robert Grave's &quot;The White Goddess,&quot; and the ritual of the king of the wood found in Frazier's &quot;The Golden Bough,&quot; as well as Joseph Campbell's &quot;The Masks of God,&quot; among other sources.  Also, they will need some acquaintance with the Seven Deadly Sins, here associated with the seven dwarves.  While I suppose the story can be read without a clear knowledge of these references, it is doubtful one will be able to fully appreciate or comprehend the author's intention without at least some knowledge of Lee's metaphoric and symbolic use of these story elements.  <br />This is a tale largely bound to its use of metaphor and symbolism, requiring some mental exercise, and as such maintains a certain intellectual distance from its evolving storyline.  Because of this, the narrative and story elements, combined with the author's choice of characters, remained to a degree emotionally aloof for me, never completely engaging.  In terms of adult retellings or modern inventions of the traditional fairy tale, I much prefer the work of Patricia McKillip, where the narrative is not so subsumed by intellectual contextualization.  Nonetheless, this is a well-written and thoughtful work, which will appeal to those who enjoy gleaning their reading through metaphoric staging.	2001-03-18
US	52832478	R96R2LXB4XU1F	0312873662	987035567	Sea Dragon Heir (The Chronicles of Magravandias, Book 1)	Books	3	4	5	N	Y	The Sum Not The Equal Of Its Parts	This novel never really credibly comes together, its component parts lacking the integration to achieve a well rounded whole.  In many ways the story reads as if it is being invented as it goes along, without any clear sense of over-arching purpose or goal, various plot threads spinning out to their own, at times loosely tangled conclusion.  If evidence of an &quot;organic&quot; approach to writing, the author has not been successful.<br />As reviewers Angus Macdonald and bethohio have implied, elements in the plot to this tale lack a necessary cohesion and continuity, many events being explained or supported by exposition when necessary, the author often forced to tell rather than show the rationale for things occurring.  There is underlying sense of action and events being staged to conform to the requirements of the moment, characters not always acting consistently, convenient circumstances placed in their way, and magical elements introduced and explained just when needed.  Further, unlike some earlier reviewers, I found many of the characterizations kept bound to the surface of events, despite the author's attempts to provide complexity, perhaps weakened by their need to adhere to a plot that often seemed to roll along of its own volition, the character's thoughts and actions forced to conform.<br />There is a clear division, in terms of the quality of writing, between the first section devoted to Pharinet and the successive sections---ignoring for the moment the epilogue---in which Varencienne is introduced and takes over as the main protagonist. The first section, entitled &quot;Life,&quot; outside perhaps of the incestuous relationship, seems very conventional in its use of establishing the setting and background to this tale, drawing upon high fantasy tropes that seem overly familiar, and written in a style and narrative voice verging upon the most basic (I must admit that I came to this book directly from Guy Gavriel Kay's masterful writing in &quot;Lord of Emperors,&quot; so perhaps this section suffered by comparison).  With the introduction of Varencienne in section two, however, the writing and plot development appear to significantly improve, doing much to redeem the simplicity and sparingly imaginative opening to this book.<br />Nonetheless, this first novel in a series remained problematic for me, being neither forgettable nor memorable.  As another reviewer has mentioned, the book's conclusion in particular was unsatisfying, revelations hinted about Pharinet that seemed both out of character and out of the blue.  Also, the image of the women---one an empress---squabbling on the beach was unintentionally burlesque.  Finally, with the epilogue we shift to an entirely new locality and potential plot.  While one senses that the author here, and elsewhere, is striving to enliven and enrich her tale with multi-layered intrigues, these efforts appear shallow and artificial compared to other masters of this device, such as George R.R. Martin, Steven Erikson, or Guy Gavriel Kay.<br />This book does have its moments, and there is a certain seductive interest generated by the tale and its sea-based, elemental magic.  However, these rewards here remain rather modest, and while one might be able to claim this book is decently written and offers, once past the opening chapters, a solid story, it is hard to embrace this as being much above average.  Three and a half stars at best, though I have noted that Locus listed the sequel, &quot;Crown of Silence,&quot; as one of the best fantasy novels of last year, among such luminaries as &quot;Deadhouse Gates,&quot; &quot;Ship of Destiny,&quot; &quot;The Black Chalice,&quot; &quot;Winter's Heart,&quot; &quot;Lord of Emperors,&quot; &quot;Tower at Stony Wood,&quot; and &quot;A Storm of Swords.&quot;  So perhaps this series improves and will reward continued reading.	2001-03-14
US	52832478	R286V7MSJ7I790	0061020028	269719484	Lord of Emperors (Sarantine Mosaic, Book 2)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Without Question Kay's Finest Work To Date	I was not enthused by &quot;Sailing To Sarantuim,&quot; despite its consummate writing feeling that the plot was weak and somewhat unfocused during the central portion of the book, enervated by a tedium of travel and in sum the weakest work Kay had produced since the &quot;Fionavar Trilogy.&quot;  After reading &quot;Lord of Emperors&quot; I feel that I will need to return and read, as an earlier reviewer has suggested, both books back to back---I may need to make a reassessment.<br />Regardless, &quot;Lord of Emperors&quot; is without doubt the finest work that Kay---already with few peers in fantasy---has ever produced, and easily the best book of the genre that I have read so far this year, or, for that matter, ever.  His powers of description, characterization and compassion have never been more discerning or vivid, rendered with all the beauty and feeling of the mosaics Crispin tries to create in order to understand, capture and express the world around him.  Underneath his effort is an attempt to reach for something more, to reveal what is barely glimpsed and remains ineluctably just beyond mortal reach.  In doing so, Kay has stretched his writing skills beyond the normal and traditional boundaries of fantasy, attaining themes more universal in scope, and far from the fields of sword and sorcery.  Those bemoaning the loss of &quot;Fionavar&quot; are blind to the richness and subtlety of the tapestry the author has chosen to weave, or, perhaps, discomforted that the author's writing no longer offers an easy escape, his characters and their desires and failings too close an echo to our own, providing a &quot;half-world&quot; through which we can see ourselves mirrored.  Not comfortably the romantic idealizations of typical fantasy.<br />The main protagonist is not prince who would be king, or a romanticized assassin, or even a knight in tarnished armor, but a simple (if complexly textured) artisan who accidentally finds himself thrown into a whirl of society andpolitics in many ways well beyond his means, certainly to control or calculatingly effect.  Confronted with weapons, his most valiant act is to tackle his assailant when his back is to him, leaving the dispatch of his attacker to others.  Crispin's courage is of an entirely different order: to confront his losses and sorrows, and his ultimate inability to evade his own mortality and limitations while continuing to embrace life and go on living.  This theme is reflected throughout the novel, in the &quot;gift&quot; given Kasia, the ephemeral birds of Zoticus, or the grand aspirations of Valerius.  Even, by the end, the nature of Jad, the divine itself, is revealed as temporal and transitory.  And, as has been evident in other recent works by Kay, conclusions are open to interpretation, rarely to be clearly decided.  No wonder more traditional fans of fantasy are left feeling unsatiated.<br />As in the abandoned chapel in Varena, Kay has populated his novel with a cast of characters beautifully and individually rendered, their dreams and sorrows both petty and grand, their actions and thoughts revealed through an abiding and largely nonjudgmental humanity.  Rarely does the author state, allowing his tale to unfold upon its own enveloping stage, leaving the reader to arrive at their own conclusions, presenting his players with all the foibles and momentary strengths one could hope to find walking through any crowded assembly or corridor.  One reads this work as much for the author's depiction of humanity as for the twists and turns of the narrative.  And, in terms of plot, there are as many twists and turns as its historical antecedent has come to identify, told in a way that makes many other prominent authors, whose works are known for their intrigue, bald in comparison of approach.  Finally, I defy anyone to name a fantasy that has been more skillfully or sensitively written, or better brought to life. <br />In case you haven't gathered, I think this work representssomething special, both in terms of its style of writing and the scope of its themes and characterization.  With little comparable, even by Kay himself, this novel can be easily chosen as one of the best that fantasy has to offer, and cannot be more highly recommended.  I will readily read both books of the &quot;Sarantine Mosaic&quot; soon, and see if together I have not misjudged the predecessor.	2001-03-11
US	52832478	R221888KULL5R9	0553380230	181257346	The Saints of the Sword: Book Three of Tyrants and Kings (Tyrants and Kings, Bk 3)	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	John Marco Continues To Hone And Refine His Skills	John Marco has continued to improve upon his tale, in &quot;Saints of the Sword&quot; building upon the strengths of the earlier two books, while stepping back from some of their weaknesses. In particular, the author has skillfully expanded upon his use of multiple point of view used to such good effect in &quot;Grand Design,&quot; adding new and strong characters with the introduction of Alazrian, Kasrin and Elrad Leth, as well as further developing the strong roles played earlier by Biagio, Nicabar and the Queen of Liss. Richius Vantran, the dominating protagonist in &quot;The Jackal of Nar,&quot; steps even further to the background, a choice that I applaud, as I had always found his characterization mildly problematic, with his vacillating, at times verging on overwrought resistance to his role in events. In many ways, compared to Simon in &quot;Grand Design,&quot; or Biagio or Kasrin in this work, Richius' actions and motives appear weak and not as successfully realized, threatening his character with being overshadowed as new characters come to the forefront. This was particularly true in the case of Simon in book two, who in many ways reflected many of Richius' dilemmas, but with greater strength, clarity and sympathy of purpose. I missed his presence here.<br />Marco has also refined his use of political intrigue, in many ways this series beginning more and more to mirror George R.R. Martin's ongoing &quot;Song of Ice and Fire,&quot; without seeming a knock off, though lacking the latter's scope and depth of detail and characterization. Nonetheless, those of you that have enjoyed Martin's current series will likely find much to admire here, as long as you do not draw your comparisons too closely. After all, this would be unfair to Mr. Marco, who is a relative newcomer, whereas George R.R. Martin has been writing successfully for a couple decades. But as John Marco has been building more upon his strengths than his weaknesses, as evidenced here, one greatly anticipates his future.<br />Marco continues to at times make his plot too tidy, certain characters, as another reviewer has noted, too readily changing their stripes or accepting changes in circumstance. It is difficult to entirely accept Biagio's change of heart, despite the author's efforts to convince us, and Nicabar's ready acceptance of Kasrin seems too easy to be wholly credible. Other incidents occur with similar ease or coincidence. Finally, Richius' pangs of guilt have by now worn more than thin, though, with his little stage time, we are not again forced too much into dragging his whining bones through the fire. <br />It would appear that the author has already begun a new work, evidently not a direct outgrowth from this series. However, for those of you who will miss Lucel-Lor and Nar, there are a number of hints at the conclusion of this work that leave more than ample room for a return sometime later. In any event, as this series is one of the more impressive debuts I have read, I will eagerly look forward to Mr. Marco's next project. I can only promise great expectations for the future.	2001-03-06
US	52832478	R2ZKJT19IWOH8C	044652560X	396075786	Wheelers	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Topical Grab Bag Of Themes And Plot Elements	Recently awarded Locus' nod as one of the best first novels of the past year, this entertaining novel is a potpourri of popular and topical themes, drawn from such diverse sources as ecoterrorism and diversity, cloning, Zen Buddhism, Egyptian archeology, Von Daniken's &quot;Chariots of the Gods,&quot; and the anticipated future cataclysm of a killer comet, recently so thoroughly milked by both the news media and Hollywood.  While one might suspect that the authors, both of whom have extensive scientific and academic publishing resumes, have been somewhat calculating as to their inclusion of plot elements, there is little question that they have interwoven these themes into a successful and entertaining novel, written with verve and a great amount of imagination.<br />Though the introductory chapters start out appearing only tentatively connected, pursuing multiple storylines that at first seem largely unrelated, it is not long before the authors begin to bind their protagonists' tales together, spinning out their coalescing narrative at an ever increasing pace that soon matches the onrush of climatic events that equally propel towards the book's conclusion.  Once the reader enters the climacteric phase of the novel, it is difficult to put down, marred slightly only by the final chapters, which become a summary tidying up of events and characters that seem somewhat a let down after all the excitement preceding.  Nonetheless, the authors succeed in investing much of their tale with an ever-increasing suspense that is handled deftly, and which largely offsets any flaws found in the final slowdown of events.<br />In addition, while a blend of both hard and soft science, the multiple points of view are balanced, as well as well integrated into the plot elements, science and conceptual elements only on occasion dominating at the expense of the storyline.  Further, the authors use their tale to delightfully parody contemporary government and beauracracy, as well as academia and the news media, with a sardonic humor reminiscent of authors such as Terry Pratchett, which are bound to raise a chuckle, even if darkly lined, and leaven the narrative throughout.<br />Even though not a huge fan of science fiction, I found this book enjoyable, and will certainly follow the authors' novels in future---hopefully there will be successors.  While, if allowed, I would have given this first effort only 3 and a half stars, I suspect fans of the genre will respond more generously.	2001-03-02
US	52832478	RXSFMAE8QMW5Z	0812508440	276745598	The White Rose: A Novel of the Black Company (Chronicles of The Black Company)	Books	3	6	8	N	N	&quot;Books Of The North&quot; Concludes	One has to give Glen Cook credit for variety in approach: each of the three books comprising &quot;Books of the North&quot; has been presented in a different format, the first episodic and often temporal swings from chapter to chapter, the second short, abbreviated chapters following multiple storylines and more linear than the first, with &quot;White Rose&quot; continuing the structure of the second, but utilizing the new device of unattributed messages sent to the main narrator that take the reader back to events a hundred years prior to the book's present and ongoing circumstance, and delivered to the protagonist with a regularity that allows the author to reconstruct the past, propelling two trips to the Barrowlands, the reappearance of players long thought dead, as well as setting up the book's final conflict.  In my opinion the use of this device is not as successful structurally as those used in the past, only enhancing the at times parenthetical and peripatetic shifts of focus that to date have dominated the narrative.<br />Despite the active and often engaging storyline and characters of Cook's saga, there is a sense of the author patching his tale together as he goes, events and incidents occurring in a rapid and summary succession that oftentimes lack explanation, or are dispensed with in the most cursory manner once they have fulfilled their function.  Action is the primary driving force of this series, its primary strength, and, despite some delightful characterization, it becomes clear everything else is secondary to moving the plot along.  Characters appear and disappear and events take place in circumstances never fully clarified or realized, and in some cases, such as Tracker and Toadkiller Dog, the reader is left almost completely unclear as to their actual identity.  This treatment of characters and events keeps the author's tale very much at the surface of things, action the raison d'etre of the entire tale, with a level of substance barely rising above the contemporary action cartoon.  And, while there was evidence in &quot;Shadows Linger&quot; that the author was toying with using his narrative to explore themes of good and evil, personal responsibility and the relativism of virtue, these intentions were absent here.<br />Despite the rather one-dimensional quality of these stories---an action/entertainment value analogous to the best pulp fiction or films such as &quot;Starship Troopers&quot;---they do offer the reader pure escapist pleasure, written with some skill and imagination, for moments of unexamined recreation.  Just don't look too closely.	2001-02-24
US	52832478	R3MGYH4VKHXEXD	0812508424	990472454	Shadows Linger: A Novel of the Black Company (The Second Chronicle of The Black Company)	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Great Fun If Lacking Somewhat In Depth	The first Black Company series presents me with a quandry: while lacking the depth of characterization and setting found in the author's closest, comparable contemporaries---George R.R. Martin and Steven Erikson---and a plot line where action often takes precedence over comprehensive plot development, these stories are nonetheless engaging and great fun, with a cast of memorable characters that one finds oneself looking forward to.  Similar to the aforementioned authors, Cook's players present an often conflicting mix of motivations, good and evil blurred by both desire and circumstance, values vascillating between self-interest and noble purpose.  Cook avoids the moralizing so prevalent in most fantasy fiction---the first notable fantasy author to do so---and invests his characters with all the frailty, indecision and inconsistent behavior so common to the human condition.  And, with typical cynicism, the author's approach to events is summed up by his primary narrator's statement:<br />    &quot;I do not believe in evil absolute...I believe in our side and theirs, with the good and evil decided after the fact, by those who survive.  Among men you seldom find the good with one standard and the shadow with another.&quot;<br />In essence this statement defines the author's approach to both his characters and events, an approach reflecting the human condition and mirroring the age-old adage that &quot;history is written by the victors.&quot;  This lends his characterizations a verisimilitude of humanity often lacking in the usual heroic epics, and for which the author is to be applauded, especially as he was one of the first to repudiate the standard moralizing so typical of most fantasy.<br />Nonetheless, as stated earlier, his story so far does not rise to the level of the best fanatasy fiction, hampered in part by one of the series' strengths, a devotion to driving and often episodic narrative action.  Certain events take place in the wink of an eye, often jerrymandered together through the use of magic or stitched through a rush of incidents that might not stand close examination.  While this lends a great degree of drama to his story, the author at times dispenses too readily with characters (in this book Lisa, Bullock and Raven) as well as informative narrative that would do much to shore up a tale that occasionally verges upon incompletion, a realization in part fragmented in its presentation.<br />In this second installment Cook improves upon his original, this work less episodic and more linear than his first, despite his adoption of more multiple storylines, often presented in quick, short bursts of chapters only a couple pages in length.  Overall, he is successful in this new, abbreviated approach, and deftly weaves his storylines together, the short chapters artificially accelerating a plot already swift in pace.  In large part the action successfully carries the plot along, not allowing for a moment's boredom, and his main characters are delightfully rendered and leavened with a humor that belies their mercenary occuption and often grim circumstances.  And despite the author's reluctance to ennoble his characters, there is evidence that they are beginning to grapple with issues larger than their initial anti-heroic and cynical world view, both of their own role and their setting.  This leads one to suspect that Cook is subtly using his narrative to examine, within the context of a blurring of morality and values, individual responsibility and the freedom---often avoided---of choice inherent in one's actions, taking his tale beyond the outlines of his initial, morally relative tale.  We shall see what follows.<br />Certainly engaging and fun to read, if preponderantly male in its appeal.  I will continue on with the next book, and imagine will eventually read the entire series.  This offers a great deal of pleasurable, unabashedly escapist fare which appears to be evolving into something more, and if allowed, I wouldhave given this book an added half star.  While some may find this work light fare, it is hard not to be carried along by the action as well as the very human and amoral cast.  Definately recommended for more recreational and unexamined moments.	2001-02-17
US	52832478	R33KPZ514EHJZM	0812521390	825946760	The Black Company (Chronicles of The Black Company #1)	Books	3	65	84	N	N	Fast-Paced Fun That Is Pure Escape	It's hard not to enjoy this book.  A quick read that begins immediately with action that rarely comes to a pause or dithers, this book episodically speeds along from one conflict to another, battles and sorcerous conflicts mounting, following the exploits of an readily likeable if amoral bunch of mercenaries.  Despite the inherent grimness and cruelty of their profession, Cook invests his characters with a great amount of humor, reminiscent of the assassin Vlad Taltos in Steven Brust's ongoing series, and a suspicion of underlying compassion and camaraderie.  These are men who through circumstance have found themselves engaged in a disreputable occupation, more often than not serving less than noble ends, but who can nonetheless rise on occasion to altruistic acts inconsistent with their brutish environment or hardened demeanor.  Sheer fantasy, but it leavens their characters from an otherwise ignoble and immoral cast.<br />It is difficult not to chuckle at the feigned combative antics of Goblin and One-Eye, or the self-deprecating humor of the narrator, Croaker.  While these are not men you would want to associate with in real life---their activities would likely quickly shorten your life expectancy or land you in goal---they nonetheless will inevitably appeal to male romantic notions exemplified by any number of anti-hero figures, most typified in Hollywood by the film roles of Clint Eastwood, and, if not too closely examined, certain to provide unadulterated masculine entertainment.  The boy in you will be delighted.<br />Glen Cook invests his writing with assured skill and a tone completely complimentary to the task at hand.  Tantalizing references are made to marvels such as the &quot;talking menhirs of the Plains of Fear,&quot; and he provides just enough historical and legendary detail to support the magical and dark world he has created.  He drops you into a maelstrom of action and never allows too much time to pass for reflection, which might in some ways,upon consideration, undermine certain underpinnings of his creation.  These are works intended to provide delightful diversion, and in that effort the author remains true to his intention and is entirely successful.<br />I have recently read comparisons drawn between Cook and George R.R. Martin and Steven Erikson.  While broadly apt, Cook does not invest---at least here---his story with either the breadth or depth of characterization and intrigue found in the former, or the degree of world-building created by the latter.  By comparison, &quot;Black Company&quot; is a far rougher sketch, and this book lacks the fleshing necessary to rank it among the best of its peers.  Nonetheless, if one suspends a certain degree of one's critical sensibilities, the book will provide a few hours of unexamined fun.  I must admit I certainly enjoyed it.	2001-02-15
US	52832478	R2S7K3WD1HAD6G	031287717X	284373444	The Wayfarer Redemption, Book 1	Books	4	18	23	N	N	Engaging, Well-Paced Fantasy That Left Me Anticipating More	Obtained an advanced readers copy of this book in the States, and upon completion immediately placed an order for the rest of the trilogy through the UK. Very engaging first work that kept my interest, despite lacking the depth of some of the best high fantasy work by Hobb, Jordan, or Martin. Despite a rather awkward start in the prologue, marred by the intrusion of the inset of a largely unnecessary and distracting chronology, the book soon takes off with a well told, at times inventive, and for the most part well written tale. I find the invented language somewhat inelegant, and references at times---the Icarii, the Charonites, the Wing Strike Force---rather bald and obvious, lacking in creativity and originality, but if one is able to read over these detracting elements, the story has much to offer, and for high fantasy is far better than most of the usual sword and sorcery fare. The world is well built, with good descriptive and character development, and its derivative elements are less pronounced than those that have been recontextualized or represent original contributions. As far as an earlier review that found the plot slow and tiring, I would assume this reader prefers his stories short on plot and character development and long on non-stop action. As this is not my preference, those reading this can determine for themselves which style of work they would prefer.<br />Despite my qualifications, my immediate ordering of the next books in the series says it all. I look forward to continuing the saga, and hope the upcoming works are as captivating as the first. Recommended.	2001-02-13
US	52832478	R2MZYD5M7RM2Y8	0374110131	697393202	Being Dead: A Novel	Books	5	16	22	N	N	Beautiful, Moving Meditation On Death (And Life)	Having read through the reviews already posted, it is interesting to note the variety of responses readers have had to this book. Certainly, disregarding a few notable exceptions, the majority of readers seem in agreement as to the broad thematic outlines binding this narrative, but when it comes to the specifics, understanding and response diverge. It is perhaps a significant measure and reflection, both upon the writer's narrative skills and the novel's subtle, complex and multifaceted message, that so many readers have found such a wide divergence of individual---and, I would suggest, personal---responses to this beautifully written and constructed novel.<br />As is clear from many of the reviews written previously, this is a meditation upon death as it coexists beside and defines life, the latter an &quot;everending&quot; progress toward its own inexorable dissolution.  Centered around the murder and subsequent decomposition along the sea of a middle-aged couple whose marriage itself bears evidence of decay, in outline this novel would appear to offer a story one could expect to be unremittingly grim, macabre and likely depressing in nature. And there is a underlying sadness of tone, as well as spectral elements, both regarding the circumstances of the characters' end as well as the accompanying recounting of their past.  Yet, encapsulating their story and woven throughout, revealed through both the events and circumstances surrounding their descriptive setting, as well as the humanity with which their lives, aspirations and defeats are retold, resides a compassionate if ultimately indifferent beauty, expressed through a rich yet economical observation of nature, setting and demise, poetic even at its most clinical moments.  There is no judgement within the author's characterizations, either of protagonists or events.  Nonetheless one glimpses a deep and abiding empathy verging on love that defines all the novel's narrative world and characters, from the most insignificant sprayhopper to the senseless and unexpected tragedy that overwhelms the main protagonists. Throughout, the natural world of this novel observes and abides, in existence defining all that takes place, detached from narrative event and interpretation, yet nonetheless through reflection and extension providing a shared and thus felt identity of common if indifferent experience.  Through this shared experience, the characters in death are somehow ignominiously ennobled, the novel offering an unspoken hope.<br />Crace breathes life into his bleak and barren setting with the words and close and detailed observance of a scientist, rendering the clinical with a beauty totally unexpected and entirely appropriate to both his characters and his setting.  Promise is somehow revealed within a desolation of both place and circumstance, spirituality through its concrete absence.  The author has achieved no small feat in effacing himself of all trace of the usual or expected viewpoint, letting instead his description carry and communicate its own message with words that speak in echoes and insinuate themselves through imagery and lingering, dispassionate detail.  Though it may appear so, dispassion here does not preclude emotion.  There is a spiritual and emotional cleansing taking place similar to the eradicating purity of a fire, though with a force more analogous to a whisper. Destruction and creation twined, beauty glimpsed through the putrescence of decay, birth synonymous and synchronous with death.<br />The only criticism I had with this book was with the secondary story line surrounding Syl.  While I recognize its importance as an alternate and informative element to the main plot line, it never felt as fully integrated as it should be into the story surrounding her parents.  And I remained unconvinced that its addition contributed significantly enough to justify its intrusive lack of integration into the main story.  I suspect that the events and history surrounding Celice and Joseph could have stood sufficiently and completely on their own, though I am sure many will disagree.  For me, Syl's story intruded a minor discordant note, both in tone and expression.  Nonetheless, this is a marvelous and beautifully rendered story, rich and complex in its rewards, and subtle and moving in its delivery.  I cannot recommend it more highly.	2001-02-13
US	52832478	R19M4IU1WN3IFU	0553100041	729024433	Daemonomania	Books	4	16	23	N	N	Erudite, Stylish, Literary Fantasy, But...	Having read the comments of several earlier reviewers it is now obvious that much of the problems I encountered reading this novel stem from the fact that it is not meant as a stand-alone, part of a larger series and preceded by two earlier books, &quot;Aegypt&quot; and &quot;Love and Sleep&quot; which inform much of the narrative here taking place.  No wonder, then, at some of my confusion over certain elements, at certain passages and episodes that seemed unnecessarily abstruse and recondite.  This is not a work to approach singly or lightly.  When I find time I will try to seek out the now out-of-print initial book to this series, Aegypt, published in 1987, to see if I can ferret out the sense of this series.<br />However, how quickly I shall do this remains to be seen.  As another reviewer has noted, this work shares certain qualities in common with Umberto Ecco's &quot;Foucault's Pendulum,&quot; a work I read many years ago, and which I found edifying, though I cannot say particularly pleasurable.  Like Ecco's labyrinthine library in &quot;The Name of the Rose,&quot; &quot;Foucault's Pendulum&quot; was a complex knot of metaphor, arcane symbolism, and self-conscious riddling of esoteric historical and literary references, an intentional mental conundrum whose intended value seemed as much rooted in its powers to test the reader's mental agility as to convey its multifaceted messages or story.  In reading &quot;Pendulum&quot; one had the sense that the author was directing his writing to a rather rarified and narrow audience whose educational background and delight in metal exercises qualified them for the intellectual gymnastics the narrative demanded.  While there are rewards to be found in working through this approach to the writing of fiction, one that has become popular among certain authors of the last several decades, Ecco only one among many that include such luminaries as Thomas Pynchon, personally I have wearied of the mental hoops I am asked to leapthrough in order to appreciate this approach to narrative fiction, writing that seems as much, if not more, about the author's display of literary and intellectual skills as conveying or communicating with the reader.  And I question the inherent elitism and literary self-reference such work implies, begging the question of whom such work serves.<br />&quot;Daemonomania&quot; appears to fall into this category of fiction.  Though written with consummate style and skill, obviously the work of a brilliant mind, its intentions more literary than fantasy, and certain to garner the attention of critics (it already has) and intellectuals alike, its appeal is nonetheless limited and likely to attract only an audience of similarly minded individuals, those that revel in intellectual riddles and conundrums, finding this type of mental exercise a value in itself.  I however, do not number myself among them, nor, I suspect, will the majority of readers.  <br />An earlier reviewer mentions his uncertainty over his full comprehension of this novel.  Years ago I read Joyce's &quot;Ulysses&quot; and Finnegan's Wake:&quot;  While I could appreciate and respect the brilliance represented by the author's writing, unlike certain academics I was unwilling to devote ten years or more of my life studying the author's novels in order to reach a more complete explication or understanding.  In Crowley's case I am uncertain I am willing to expend even the reading of another book.  Obviously, this is a matter of personal taste, aesthetics and values.  Those that like this sort of thing will in all likelihood be delighted.	2001-02-11
US	52832478	R1YND53IDC2HZ3	081258435X	911423269	The Chosen (The Stone Dance of the Chameleon, Book 1)	Books	4	28	30	N	N	Impressive If Flawed Debut	If &quot;God is in the details,&quot; then &quot;The Chosen&quot; by Ricardo Pinto should be a reflection of divine inspiration.  Lavishly detailed and descriptively realized, the author has imaginatively succeeded in creating a realm and society unlike any I have encountered in fantasy fiction, even though antecedents can be traced in the works of Mervyn Peake, Gene Wolfe, Michael Moorcock, Storm Constantine, or Steven Erikson.  But perhaps no other author has as firmly, obsessively and inventively delineated his world as Ricardo Pinto.<br />This is a realm ruled by a blood theocracy whose social structure is rigidly hieratic, and whose laws and customs are inflexible and cruel, existing upon a base of customs and traditions that are morally alien from our own, and in which the majority of society are seen as no more than cattle to be used or dispensed with as the ruling caste sees fit.  With an absolute authoritarianism not seen since perhaps the Chin Dynasty of China, the Chosen preside over an ancient world that shifts between squalor and exotic beauty, a mix of the barbaric and the aesthetic almost so refined as to be ethereal.  Most of the population inhabit a land brutal and grim in setting, reduced to virtual servitude, whereas their rulers, the Chosen, are cloistered within the mountain walls and sky mere of Osrakum, a holy city in which the ruling caste lives amid luxury and splendor, but are equally oppressed by the rigid society they have created, in which at any moment they may fall beneath the brooding, hidden and often arcane intrigues of an elaborate political and religious court system.  Deity does not rest easy upon the shoulders of divine aristocracy.<br />While Ricardo Pinto has lavished his world with incredible amounts of descriptive detail, creating what might be hailed a monumental and highly original feat of world-building, this has come at the expense of often subsuming his plot and characters within his description, descriptive detail dominating the novel's character development and storyline.  This is not to say the latter do not exist, but they are in part buried beneath the architecture of Pinto's world, slowing the narrative pace and, for those dependent upon action to propel the narrative along, many I suspect will find this book slow slogging.  However, there are decided rewards to wading through the vast amounts of descriptive detail---if no other the clarity of depiction in the world unfolding---and the society and religious motifs are firmly developed and intriguing.  So also is the main protagonist, an individual who, while a member of the ruling caste, has been raised outside the sacred precincts, and is therefore alienated by much that he finds himself inheriting.  This creates enough tension to sustain much of the seemingly excessive description, and by the end of the novel conflicts are propelling the novel swiftly forward, even if baldly manipulated by the book's cliff-hanging conclusion.<br />Further, the author has displayed a certain boldness in wrapping his protagonist at the book's conclusion within a homosexual relationship: fantasy fiction is almost entirely dominated, after all, by manly men and women who are brave and beautiful, as well as decidedly white, and I suspect the gender blurring here will make many of the genre's more obvious audience somewhat uncomfortable.  Whether this element will succeed in garnering what traditionally is a decidedly heterosexual and often male-dominated audience remains to be seen.  But one must admire the courage shown by the author in taking the risk inherent in introducing this element to his narrative.  As a heterosexual male, it raised issues of identification that are perhaps most succinctly addressed by an earlier reviewer who, as a gay man and reader of fantasy, has found himself perforce needing to identify and relate to characters whose sexuality and identification is expressed through traditional and decidedly heterosexual romanticism.<br />This will obviously not be a book that will please everyone.  At times the writing is obscure, losing itself within the labyrinths of its own description, and following an evolution that is doggedly and patiently rendered.  Nonetheless, for those interested in exploring a detailed and fully realized world and society that is exotic even by the standards of fantasy and science fiction, and that is not in a rush to reveal its storyline or conflicts through the flash of wizardry or sword play, this novel offers many rewards to the patient, and is certainly one of the most impressive debuts I have encountered, irregardless of its flaws.  And, should the author reign in his obsessive and impressive descriptive skills, the vast and fertile imagination shown here offers exciting prospects for the future.	2001-02-07
US	52832478	R260NADNN9A615	0812585151	641161771	Bard: The Odyssey of the Irish (Celtic World of Morgan Llywelyn)	Books	4	16	26	N	N	More Speculative Than Historical	I don't particularly wish to take the wind out of peoples' sails, but this book is more a work of speculative fiction than historical, despite the author's scholarship or the extensive bibliography presented at the back of the book. Very little substantive is known of the Celts, even less than of the Vikings, and while some archeological evidence provides material hints, there is not enough material evidence to do much other than to reconstruct the form of their dwellings and, based upon the artifacts of tools and weapons, postulate upon the level of their material culture and the extent of their trade with other peoples. As with the Vikings, what little primary sources do exist were often written after the fact, as well as by authors that could be considered foes, thus questionable both as to the veracity and bias of the information presented. The bulk of what has come down to us regarding the Celtic peoples of Ireland are in the form of legends and myths originally based upon a bardic tradition and written down long after that oral tradition had fallen into disuse, most often by chroniclers who were neither Celtic nor necessarily sympathetic or familiar with either the culture or religious elements of the tales they transcribed. We are dealing here with legends, and while some broad conclusions can be drawn---as in Robert Grave's &quot;The White Goddess,&quot; referred to by the author in the first edition---from shared cultural and mythopoeic archetypes and material evidence, much that has been expostulated about the Celts, both fictionally and in texts attempting to reconstruct their culture and society, will not stand up to close historical scrutiny. This is far more a work of speculative than historical or literary fiction, and should be approached as such.<br />  Taken within the context of fantasy fiction, with what little historical basis as can be reconstructed or questionably projected from the scanty evidence, this book is in many ways successful, presenting a fictional culture whose approach to the world and their lives offers the reader an alternative moral and spiritual compass, one in which it is hard not to find sympathy, and compares favorably, as I am sure is the author's intention, with the values of contemporary, modern society. Well written (though the author's periodic multiple shifts of point of view within the same page is at times disorienting, and would be one of the first things a creative writing student would learn to avoid), the author creates a highly detailed if romanticized society and world which captivates the reader's interest, as well as a diverse cast of characters which, unlike some other earlier reviewers, I found complex and multifaceted, despite the fact that the main point of view is that of the bard, Amergin. Essentially a tale chronicling the legendary immigration of Celtic Gaels from the Galician coast of Spain to the shores of Ireland, spurred by the vision of the legendary and perhaps entirely mythic bard Amergin, at least half of the story takes place in Celtic Spain, detailing the familial, religious and social structure surrounding the book's characters, as well as the events precipitating their voyage to Ireland. Much of the first one hundred pages of the book attempt to provide a cultural and historical background for the Celtic population in Spain, accomplishing this through repeated flashbacks that are for the most part expository and only partially successful, drawing the reader's attention away from the characters and the narrative's contemporary setting, often seeming to attempt to recreate a past too vast to be successfully contained within the scope of a hundred pages. I found this attempt to provide extensive background to the book's setting enervating to the narrative's main plot line, over-reaching itself in its effort to anchor the book's events within a quasi-historical setting.<br />  Nor is the ending entirely satisfying, though my dissatisfaction is not basedupon its fantastical elements, as some other readers have complained. As stated earlier, this work is, in essence, fantasy, and the introduction of the Tuatha De Danaan is appropriate, both in terms of the book's format as well as the mythic associations of this legendary people with the Celtic migration and &quot;conquest&quot; of Erin. Nor is this the first overt introduction into the story of speculative elements, unless the reader is to accept the magical properties of divination, voices heard upon the wind, or the druidic groves as historical skills and knowledge since lost to present day society. The dissatisfaction I had with the book's conclusion comes with its abrupt and unresolved ending, in which the conflicts that have dominated the latter pages continue, presuming---indeed inferring and creating---an expectation of resolution that never takes place. One is left wondering as to the future, expecting and wanting further development to the unresolved events surrounding the remaining characters. This is compounded by the tidy romantic rewards of the book's main character. Had this been another author's work, the obvious assumption would be that the book's conclusion was serving as a launch for a second book that would pick up where the first left off. However, this is not the case here: there are no successive books by Llewelyn continuing the saga begun here of the life of the Irish bard Amergin. Instead the last words spoken in the narrative are left begging for a future that never arrives.<br />  Overall, a well written book that is bound to appeal to fans of Celtic mythology or fantasy guised as history. However its rewards are muted somewhat by the author's attempt to apply too broad a brush at the beginning, and an inability to fully resolve the story's conclusion, which prevents this book from being ranked among the best fantasy currently has to offer.	2001-02-03
US	52832478	R2Z4352VEWGJJ2	0593046226	63115515	Deadhouse Gates	Books	5	6	8	N	N	There's A New And Exciting Voice In Fantasy	If you prefer fantasy that draws upon the familiar, the tried and true as well as tired conventions, a storyline that is easily recognized and with which you are already well acquainted, with a main character whose adventures you can readily follow and a plot that is simple and linear, this is not the book for you. Shifting between a rich and varied cast of characters, with events taking place at a pace that at times leaves the reader breathless, this vivid and multifaceted tale contains enough material to fill another author's ten books. And, despite all the twists and turns confronting the narrative, rarely does the story ever lag or falter, instead hurtling on through a world so richly imagined and textured that any other writer must look on in wonder and envy---I know I certainly do.<br />Stephen Donaldson has hailed the author's imagination as being &quot;vast in scope&quot; and &quot;almost frighteningly fecund.&quot; I could not agree more. This is a work that demands the reader's attention: so much is taking place that if you blink you may miss it. Though at times the author's prolific weaving of plot threads and imaginative furies can almost overreach themselves, never once is the reader long left dangling, instead swept back into the maelstrom of events and worlds that not so much unfold as rush to be revealed, anticipation racing over every page. Even in rare moments, when the narrative's aims seem unclear, the vivid writing holds one spellbound.<br />Quite an accomplishment, and not for the faint of heart. Without a doubt, one of the best books of the year. There's a new voice in fantasy, one as ringing and exuberant and clear as a legion's clarion call, and it belongs to Steven Erikson.	2001-01-25
US	52832478	R2RZ0Y6DQEZ2S4	0671431854	151270526	FEVRE DREAM	Books	5	11	15	N	N	Certainly One Of The Major Works Of Vampire Fiction	What a shame that this work is out of print!  Certainly one of the &quot;classics&quot; of contemporary vampire literature, written with much greater skill than Ms. Rice's novels, this work, first published in 1982, is similarly set in New Orleans and along the Mississippi River and its tributaries during the mid 1800's, as much an ode to the former glory of the steamboat trade as a reworking of the legend of vampirism.  Recreating a brief yet important period of our history with an obviously loving and detailed historical and nautical accuracy, George R.R. Martin, while borrowing much from the traditions of vampirical lore, at the same time reinvests those traditions in ways that are fresh and original, eliciting both horror and sympathy with his characters.  As is evident in his more recent and popular &quot;Song of Fire and Ice&quot; cycle, Martin's characterizations are complicated and motivated by desires often in conflict with one another, creating tensions and undercurrents that go beyond the confines of the plot, and, along with his skilled prose and attention to detail, bring both his story and his characters to life.  And, for anyone that has ever visited historical Galena, I believe you will readily recognize and be transported back to the time-encapsulated beauty of the town at the conclusion to Martin's book.<br />Despite the misfortune of being out of print in the United States, we are fortunate enough to have had the book recently reissued in England as part of the Gollancz/Orion Masterworks of Fantasy series.  It is available through amazon.co.uk, and I would highly recommend that anyone interested in horror/fantasy or vampire fiction spend the money to obtain it there.  And, hopefully, with all the interest that the author's new series is generating, some publisher in the States will wake up and republish it here.  Considering that all of Anne Rice's novels are still in print, this work is certainly and arguably more deserving.	2001-01-21
US	52832478	R1GEVPCAG9TR4E	0553106635	549456361	A Storm of Swords (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 3)	Books	5	7	15	N	N	FYI:  The Reissue Of Martin's &quot;Fevre Dream&quot;	I have already extolled the virtues of George R.R. Martin's &quot;A Storm of Swords&quot; in an earlier review.  For those of you who are fans of this series---for reasons that should be obvious to anyone reading these reviews---Martin's first foray into fantasy, &quot;Fevre Dream,&quot; has been recently reissued in England, and is available through amazon.co.uk.  Certainly one of the &quot;classics&quot; of contemporary vampire literature, written with much greater skill than Ms. Rice's novels, this work, first published in 1982, is similarly set in New Orleans and along the Mississippi River and its tributaries during the mid 1800's, as much an ode to the former glory of the steamboat trade as a reworking of the legend of vampirism. Recreating a brief yet important period of our history with an obviously loving and detailed historical and nautical accuracy, George R.R. Martin, while borrowing much from the traditions of vampirical lore, at the same time reinvests those traditions in ways that are fresh and original, eliciting both horror and sympathy with his characters. As is evident in his more recent and popular &quot;Song of Ice and Fire&quot; cycle, Martin's characterizations are complicated and motivated by desires often in conflict with one another, creating tensions and undercurrents that go beyond the confines of the plot, and, along with his skilled prose and attention to detail, bring both his story and his characters to life.<br />Despite the misfortune of being out of print in the United States, we are fortunate enough to have had the book recently reissued in England as part of the Gollancz/Orion Masterworks of Fantasy series, and I would highly recommend that anyone interested in horror/fantasy, George R.R. Martin or vampire fiction spend the money to obtain it there.  If you are enjoying &quot;A Song of Ice and Fire,&quot; you will certainly enjoy this!  Hopefully, with all the deserving interest that the author's new series is generating, some publisher in the States will wake up and republish it here. Considering that all of Anne Rice's novels are still in print, this work is certainly and arguably more deserving.  I hope this information has proven helpful.	2001-01-21
US	52832478	R1Y8BBPDQAKL76	0553580140	225476603	Reave the Just and Other Tales	Books	4	11	12	N	N	To My Mind Donaldson's Best Work Since Covenant	For those of you unfamiliar with Stephen Donaldson (and you should be), he is perhaps best known for &quot;The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant,&quot; written in the late 70' and early 80's, and widely regarded as a classic of fantasy fiction. Since then he has written &quot;Mordant's Need,&quot; and &quot;Daughter of Regals,&quot; both fantasy, the latter also a collection of short stories, though neither work possesses the strength or import of the earlier &quot;Chronicles.&quot; His more recent work, the dark scifi quintet &quot;Gap&quot; series, remains problematic, and I found myself abandoning the series midway through due to a plot that seemed uncertain as to its heading and a bevy of essentially unsympathetic characters who were unable to capture either my interest or much sense of identification. I was therefore very pleased to read this collection of tales, as once again they amply display the author's talent at using fantasy as a means to explore larger and more existential issues, without the spiraling downward into depravity and cynicism that seemed to dominate the &quot;Gap&quot; series.<br />  This collection of stories is as much a literary effort as an expression of fantasy, the latter used as a backdrop to explore themes of morality and redemption common to all Donaldson's work, as well as what it means to be human. Many of these explorations take place at a metaphoric and symbolic level, demanding close attention and probably benefiting from more than one reading. Unlike the simple storytelling that dominates most fantasy, Donaldson's plots and characters more often than not serve as a vehicle to question and explore larger, at times less obvious issues regarding identity and personal responsibility, the crisis, when it comes, most often a confrontation that tests the character's acceptance or assumptions of his or her personal reality, rather than overcoming some dire or portentous obstacle so usual to most fantasy. These tales are quests of the self, the rewards most often ones of insight rather than treasure or ennobling conquests. For this reason it is doubtful that those seeking ordinary entertainment, the more common fare of swords and sorcery, will find this to their delight.<br />  Here Donaldson once again shows himself in mastery of both language and his prose. Except for the odd inclusion of the solitary science fiction entry, &quot;What Makes Us Human,&quot; odd not only because of its differing format but also because of the relative weakness and direct simplicity of the tale, all eight stories or novellas included here use fantasy as the setting for meditations upon existence not normally expected in the genre. At times moral and perverse parables, the author displays his ability to stretch his style, &quot;The Kings of Tarshish Shall Bring Gifts,&quot; unlike his usual, more formal approach, lyrical in a way entirely appropriate to the expression of his tale, a twist upon dreams and the nighttime stories of Scheherazade. &quot;Reave the Just&quot; seems the most typical and traditional, its setting and characters familiar to all who read fantasy, and yet the actions and instructions of its hero are well outside the realm of normal fantasy, driven by a message more contemporary than medieval. In &quot;The Killing Stroke&quot; borrows elements from oriental martial arts in a way at once familiar yet original to explore the nature of truth and self, and elsewhere the author blends and reworks vampirism in &quot;Penance&quot; to explore redemption. Without doubt my favorite tale in this collection is &quot;The Woman Who Loved Pigs,&quot; capturing both the tone and admonishment of the traditional fairy tale, yet taking it places the Brothers Grimm have never gone. Even though many of Donaldson's characters are fatally flawed, even at the end they retain a very human if tarnished dignity.<br />  The author is to be applauded in these tales for taking fantasy where it rarely goes, and exploring themeswell beyond the ordinary hero or quest attained. Along with Patricia McKillip, and maybe certain earlier authors such as Mervin Peake, I can think of no other author currently writing that so stimulates one's thoughts. Highly recommended and, without the unfortunate inclusion of &quot;What Makes Us Human,&quot; easily one of the best collections of short stories fantasy has ever had published.	2001-01-20
US	52832478	RH6MGXJA0LA5D	0441007309	866601457	Dark Sleeper: A Novel	Books	3	16	17	N	Y	Stylish, Dickensian Tale of the Macabre	This tale is written with a great degree of style, with obvious borrowings from Dickens, both in terms of the language and composition of the narrative, as well as the bevy of Pickwickian characters.  Similarly set within an alternate world that could easily front for 19th century England, but for the presence of Pleistocene mammals and a post-apocalyptic destruction of Europe, the author goes to great lengths to echo and reinvent the Victorian masters prose within the context of contemporary fantasy fiction.  In terms of the prose, he is largely successful, recapturing Dickens often mocking, at times sardonic humor in his portrayal of his characters, using authorial intrusion to emphasize observations of character and setting, as well as to establish authorial imprimatur.  If the author had achieved as much in terms of the content of his story as he has in terms of style, this story would have proven more successful.  Unfortunately, the plot at times seems more in the service of the authors stylish characterizations and compositional conventions, in the end too neatly wrapped up and declaratively presented to be convincing.<br />Despite an earlier reviewers observations, I found this story more macabre than frightening, offering little in the way of true suspense.  Though several short episodes of horror take place early in the story, they are presented in a manner more strange than horrifying, the bulk of the first two hundred pages devoted primarily to characterization and setting than any unfolding of plot.  As events begin to progress in the latter half of the book, more often than not the foundation of what is happening is presented as exposition, doing much to enervate any real presence of suspense, as well as contributing to a sense of contrivance in the manner of which the author has chosen to handle and reveal his plot line. Everything falls in place at the storys conclusion too abruptly and conveniently to be convincing, and the summation takingplace in the postscript, while a common 19th century literary convention, true to the authors stylistic choice of composition, only contributes further to the readers sense of mild disappointment after having been led on for almost five hundred pages.  <br />While I do feel this novel represents an example of style superseding substance, there is little question as to the authors success in terms of his prose.  As this is a first novel, and the author shows great skill in his composition, characterization and description, as well as his ability to mirror literary mannerisms, little doubt exists in my mind that, should the author be able to develop and improve his story telling abilities, one could expect great things of Mr. Barlough in the future.  He is an author who I will continue to watch.	2001-01-19
US	52832478	RF9MF1TRSWOJX	055358247X	166362881	The Fire Dragon (Dragon Mage, Book 3)	Books	5	33	33	N	N	To Date The Best Of The Dragon Mage Series	While I have never entirely been clear as to the reasons behind separating this ongoing---to date eleven books---saga into three separate component series---Deverry, Westlands and the current Dragon Mage---as satisfying as the last two books of the latter have been, there is little question that &quot;The Fire Dragon&quot; elevates the story progression found in the two previous books, significantly ratcheting forward the tale's plot progression, and easily standing as one of the best books of the entire series.  Many of the plot threads established in &quot;The Red Wyvern&quot; and &quot;The Black Dragon&quot; come to fruition in tragic as well as anticipatory ways, leaving one breathless for what I am told will be the concluding novel of this outstanding series that started with &quot;Daggerspell&quot; in 1986.  And, perhaps, at no time has the author's prose seemed so sure of itself, boding for what I expect will be a stunning conclusion to the series.<br />As I have commented in earlier reviews of other books in this series, it is a shame that this complex and rich saga has not reached the attention of more readers.  It is without doubt one of the finest epics of fantasy ever written, deserving the accolades to date heaped upon George R. R. Martin and Robert Jordan, let alone the popularity accorded less rewarding work, such as Terry Goodkind or Raymond Feist.  Along with Patricia McKillip, Katherine Kerr remains, in the popular mind, one of the best and most underrated and least read authors writing fantasy today, and this is unfortunate, not only for the author but particularly for all those readers who are unaware of what gems this series represents.  I can only hope that at some time in the future those who love fantasy will come to recognize this classic in the making, and that these books will be republished as a set in the form of which they are deserving.  To see this book released only in mass market, and after the holidays, seems a travesty when one considers the quality of the work contained.<br />Once again, for whatever reason---I would like to suspect publisher indifference---this edition has been released without a complete list of characters, or in this case, incarnations.  In a tale spanning several hundred years, with characters that shift and reappear upon the stage in various guises, it would have proven helpful to have been given a complete cast of characters.  Even having read all the books, I find myself continuously having to refer back to the incomplete table of incarnations to fix the various characters and their manifold relationships in my mind, and this is compounded by the arbitrary absence of certain characters in the tables, such as here Nevyn (who, I suppose, by now we all know) and Aerynn, and the fact that the characters listed in the table for the Mid-1060's are incorrectly paired with their predecessors.  In a tale as complex and chronologically complicated as this, with books separated in publication by at least a year and spanning almost two decades, it would have been helpful to provide a more complete list of characters and chronology of background events.  Again, hopefully in the future, should this series be re-released, the publisher and author at that time will make the effort to provide their readers with a complete chronology and character list that a work such as this deserves.<br />I cannot recommend this work more highly.  It deserves to be read and, to my mind, remains one of the finest works of epic fantasy fiction ever written.	2001-01-09
US	52832478	R15Q8IRGPDXI4Z	0861404211	617592621	The First Discworld Novels: The Colour of Magic and The Light Fantastic	Books	3	37	38	N	Y	Excellent Opening To Discworld Marred By Poor Publishing	I have reviewed the two opening books to Discworld separately elsewhere.  Needless to say both works begin one of the most imaginative and original series ever to grace the world of fantasy fiction, and, because of their inseparable relationship in terms of story, their republication as one work makes perfect sense.  Unfortunately, Pratchett's new publisher, Collins, has not presented these gems in a manner for which the work is deserving.  The text is riddled with punctuation and spelling errors, at times forcing the reader to reread the text for sense, a problem that was equally in evidence in &quot;The Fifth Elephant.&quot;  Collins is fortunate to have this author now in their stable of fantasy writers---they certainly have no other fantasy author of his stature---and should feel a responsibility---to the work, to the author, and to the readers---to present Mr. Pratchett's marvelous fiction in a manner equal to the riches of its contents.  For this reason, don't waste your money on an inferior packaged product.  There are still good hardbound copies of the original publications around, if you desire these works in cloth, as I do, that justify their expense, both in terms of presentation and text.  This is merely a shoddy reprint, undeserving of purchase, and it is for this reason I have given it only three stars.  Pratchett's work deserves far better.	2001-01-07
US	52832478	R2MTIMOVR7RWZ6	0312198698	189239880	The Encyclopedia of Fantasy	Books	5	19	22	N	N	Essential For Anyone Interested In Fantasy Fiction	Winner of both the Hugo and Nebula awards---and deserving---as every other reviewer has stated, this work is indispensable for anyone interested in fantasy fiction, whether scholar or casual reader.  Comprehensive would be an understatement, as the authors have collected almost every reference, author or subject pertaining to the genre in one weighty volume, ranging from the Dolorous Stroke of Arthurian Romance to the influence of opera or film upon the fantastic imagination.  Writers both influential and otherwise are included, and cogent examinations made into the conventions, tropes and history of this aspect of speculative fiction.  True, as often happens with all efforts to compile an encyclopedic reference, this work reflects a certain cultural and Euro American bias, with certain, perhaps crossover, authors from the third world absent, as well as the burden imposed by the rapid passage of time, that demands constant revision, newer (at least for European and American audiences) and significant authors, such as the Australian writer, Sara Douglass, missing mention.  Hopefully a new and updated edition will soon be forthcoming.  But these quibbles are petty and unavoidable compared to the monumental accomplishment this volume represents, and I find myself continually referring to its pages for additional background upon authors and thematic elements that catch my interest, often individual entries leading to further study and references, as well as authors whose work I was not previously acquainted with.<br />As varied and vast as the world of fantasy has become in recent years, this work will surely open up new vistas for any reader, as well as firmly root the history, influence and contributions of the genre in the larger perspective and traditions of our literature.  The first of its kind, and a worthy addition to the companion volume by the same authors for science fiction, this work is invaluable, one of the most significant works ever published in fantasy, and deserving of a place of prominence on the shelves of anyone interested in fantasy or the writing of fiction.	2001-01-07
US	52832478	R7ABLUEO2H3LT	0061020702	727722067	The Light Fantastic	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Improves Upon The Original	&quot;The Light Fantastic&quot;---actually a continuation of the saga begun in &quot;The Color of Magic&quot;---improves upon the original, abandoning the wandering storylines of the first book and hitting the stride that is to become familiar to fans of Pratchett's later work.  And while this book, in terms of its focus and writing, in many ways stands apart from its predecessor, as another reviewer has stated, it is impossible to read the one without the other, the setup for &quot;The Light Fantastic&quot; being established in the first book, and picking up where that work left off.<br />Mike Stone has done an admirable job of encapsulating the action below, so I will not trod where others have gone before, except to add that we here discover the natural history of trolls, how new solar systems are born, and observe while Twoflowers instructs Death, Pestilence, Famine and War in the finer points of &quot;a thing you put across a river,&quot; where time allows for the play of &quot;Another Fondle,&quot; also known as a &quot;Rubber.&quot;  In addition, a perverse---and dangerously intriguing---variation of a pogrom is carried out, and we learn all about neck romance.<br />As with Pratchett's best work, the author once again here shows why he remains one of the most original voices in fantasy fiction.  If you don't enjoy this book you'd best look over your shoulder: a black-robed figure is likely waiting to lighten you of your misery.	2001-01-07
US	52832478	R17G1E3K4L467I	0446608173	702775208	A Cavern of Black Ice (Sword of Shadows, Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	What A Difference A New Book Can Make!	After reading &quot;The Barbed Coil,&quot; a truly unmemorable and rather stale tale, I was reluctant to pick up this work, regardless of an advanced reader's copy given to me or the sfsite's recommendation of the book as one of the best works of 1999. Since January of that year the book has been sitting on my shelves gathering dust and in general ignored as I turned to more obvious and predictable sources of reading pleasure. In hindsight, the only benefit I have accrued by this error in judgment is that I will have less time to wait for the next novel, which I dearly hope will soon be released.<br />  As another reviewer has implied, it is difficult to believe this book was ever written by the same author as &quot;The Barbed Coil.&quot; Whereas that book was common and at times self-consciously cute (and continues annoyingly here to err in this direction with an occasional use of Scottish brogue and references to &quot;wee lassies&quot;), this work is well above the ordinary or clichd work that dominates most fantasy fiction, offering a tale that is complex and written with a skill only barely glimpsed in the earlier book. Interweaving plots with the skill of the best epic fantasists, if Ms. Jones is able to maintain the level of writing found here, this work will surely come to equal the recent work of authors such as Katherine Kerr, Robin Hobb, George R.R. Martin or Robert Jordan. And the author has created a cold and ice-bound world that is largely original---certainly so in terms of the mythic cosmology surrounding it and the deep, oftentimes grim mysticism with which it is imbued. The mythos surrounding this tale is as broad, complex and detailed as any to be found in fantasy fiction, equaled only contemporaneously by Steven Erikson or Robert Jordan. And while her cast follows standard types familiar to any devotee of the genre, the author has made each striking and individual in character, and for the most part has avoided singular or one-dimensional characterizations. Her players' motives are complex, and, like George R.R. Martin or Robin Hobb, the author has wisely given her cast depth and contradictions in character.<br />  This book presents almost an almost perfect balance between slowly unfolding narrative and action, and while a great degree of mystery and unresolved questions continue to nag the reader at the book's conclusion, at no point does once feel obviously manipulated or robbed of satisfaction in the novel's denouement or progress. There is a clear sense of plot progression and resolution to this &quot;chapter&quot; of the series' development, and hopefully Ms. Jones will be able to avoid the extraneous and often episodic plot threads that have in part frustrated the most recent offerings by Jordan and Martin, and even more significantly Goodkind. This is a marvelous and imaginative beginning to a much larger work, already vast in potential scope. My only hope is that it does not come to feed upon itself.<br />  This work stands as further proof for me that one should not discount future work by an obviously talented writer based upon the false starts or less than fully realized efforts of earlier work. There are any number of new and imaginative and potentially exciting authors writing today---Elizabeth Haydon, John Marco, and Juliet Marillier, to name just a few---that have revealed gifts of storytelling far stronger than anything found or ever suspected in Ms. Jone's &quot;The Barbed Coil.&quot; &quot;A Cavern of Black Ice&quot; stands as certain admonishment that rewards are to be gained by continuing to follow the work of newer and more recent authors, such as David Farland or Martha Wells, allowing them time to hone and perfect their skills. After all, first-time epics such as Stephen Donaldson's &quot;The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant&quot; are rare indeed.<br />  &quot;A Cavern of Black Ice&quot; could easily herald a work in progress that may well become, when completed, a masterpiece of epicfantasy fiction. It certainly shall if successive books prove the equal of this one. I look forward to the second installment with great anticipation, and selfishly wish the author every possible success. And I heartily concur with the sfsite that this was one of the best books of 1999, or, for that matter, any recent year. Sorry it took me so long to heed their advice.	2001-01-06
US	52832478	R39EYWRXX5P4BP	0061020710	181852028	The Color of Magic	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Where Discworld Begins	Originally published in 1983, &quot;The Color of Magic&quot; begins one of the most popular (the author's books account for a little over 1% of all book sales in Great Britain!), prolific and unique series to be found in any genre.  While it has its precedents, perhaps, in the short stories of Fritz Leiber (in the opening to this book Pratchett pays homage to Fafhrd and the Grey Mouser with his characters Bravd and the Weasel), and Pratchett's style of humor has been admirably imitated in works such as Steven Brust's tales of Vlad Taltos, Pratchett remains the master of fantastic satire, punning and poking fun at fantasy as well as the society that has spawned it.  Had the cast of Monty Python chosen to write fiction, it is likely work such as this would have sprung from their endeavors.  And I suspect there are many who read Pratchett that touch no other fantasy.<br />While replete with the delightful and bumbling cast of characters and imaginative, often perverse circumstances that typify and enrich Pratchett's later work, this novel nonetheless lacks the focus of much of the author's best stories, essentially a rather rambling and loosely constructed saga comprising four separate tales, patched together by the shared setting of Discworld and the characters of Rincewind, Twoflowers and the inimitable Luggage.  Because of this, despite its uproarious moments of humor, it is not entirely successful.  However, it is our introduction to Discworld and The Great A'tuin, Unseen University and the precincts and denizens of Ankh-Morpork, with its guilds of assassins and thieves, and so many other settings and characters that are so memorably evolved in the later books that one would be bereft were one not to begin the Discworld series here.  Even with the loose composition and shifting, often abrupt turn of events, the rich humor and satiric moments that enliven and punctuate all of Pratchett's prose are in ample evidence here, foreshadowing the gems that are to follow.  And, compared to the vast waste of ordinary, commonplace fantasy published each year, any work by Pratchett is certain to shine out like a star lighting the night.<br />Don't fail to read this: you're in for some real fun!	2001-01-03
US	52832478	R2OP1TVU6XRYOU	0446608173	702775208	A Cavern of Black Ice (Sword of Shadows, Book 1)	Books	5	59	69	N	N	What A Difference A New Book Can Make!	After reading &quot;The Barbed Coil,&quot; a truly unmemorable and rather stale tale, I was reluctant to pick up this work, regardless of an advanced reader's copy given to me or the sfsite's recommendation of the book as one of the best works of 1999.  Since January of that year the book has been sitting on my shelves gathering dust and in general ignored as I turned to more obvious and predictable sources of reading pleasure.  In hindsight, the only benefit I have accrued by this error in judgment is that I will have less time to wait for the next novel, which I dearly hope will soon be released.<br />As another reviewer has implied, it is difficult to believe this book was ever written by the same author as &quot;The Barbed Coil.&quot;  Whereas that book was common and at times self-consciously cute (and continues annoyingly here to err in this direction with an occasional use of Scottish brogue and references to &quot;wee lassies&quot;), this work is well above the ordinary or clichd work that dominates most fantasy fiction, offering a tale that is complex and written with a skill only barely glimpsed in the earlier book.  Interweaving plots with the skill of the best epic fantasists, if Ms. Jones is able to maintain the level of writing found here, this work will surely come to equal the recent work of authors such as Katherine Kerr, Robin Hobb, George R.R. Martin or Robert Jordan.  And the author has created a cold and ice-bound world that is largely original---certainly so in terms of the mythic cosmology surrounding it and the deep, oftentimes grim mysticism with which it is imbued.  The mythos surrounding this tale is as broad, complex and detailed as any to be found in fantasy fiction, equaled only contemporaneously by Steven Erikson or Robert Jordan.  And while her cast follows standard types familiar to any devotee of the genre, the author has made each striking and individual in character, and for the most part has avoided singular or one-dimensionalcharacterizations.  Her players' motives are complex, and, like George R.R. Martin or Robin Hobb, the author has wisely given her cast depth and contradictions in character.  <br />This book presents almost an almost perfect balance between slowly unfolding narrative and action, and while a great degree of mystery and unresolved questions continue to nag the reader at the book's conclusion, and no point does once feel obviously manipulated or robbed of satisfaction in the novel's denouement or progress.  There is a clear sense of plot progression and resolution to this &quot;chapter&quot; of the series' development, and hopefully Ms. Jones will be able to avoid the extraneous and often episodic plot threads that have in part frustrated the most recent offerings by Jordan and Martin, and even more significantly Goodkind.  This is a marvelous and imaginative beginning to a much larger work, already vast in potential scope.  My only hope is that it does not come to feed upon itself.<br />This work stands as further proof for me that one should not discount future work by an obviously talented writer based upon the false starts or less than fully realized efforts of earlier work.  There are any number of new and imaginative and potentially exciting authors writing today---Elizabeth Haydon, John Marco, and Juliet Marillier, to name just a few---that have revealed gifts of storytelling far stronger than anything found or ever suspected in Ms. Jone's &quot;The Barbed Coil.&quot;  &quot;A Cavern of Black Ice&quot; stands as certain admonishment that rewards are to be gained by continuing to follow the work of newer and more recent authors, such as David Farland or Martha Wells, allowing them time to hone and perfect their skills.  After all, first-time epics such as Stephen Donaldson's &quot;The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant&quot; are rare indeed.<br />&quot;A Cavern of Black Ice&quot; could easily herald a work in progress that may well become, when completed, a masterpiece of epic fantasy fiction.  It certainly shall if successive books prove the equal of this one. I look forward to the second installment with great anticipation, and selfishly wish the author every possible success.  And I heartily concur with the sfsite that this was one of the best books of 1999, or, for that matter, any recent year.  Sorry it took me so long to heed their advice.	2001-01-01
US	52832478	REXTJ6CTZL60H	0553562738	466136665	Doomsday Book	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Very Moving And Human Reconstruction Of The Past	This blend of fantasy, science and historical fiction, unlike so many other attempts, is entirely successful, in large part due to the author's writing skills and ability to create believable characters and circumstances both in the future and in the past.  Replete with some of the most memorable characters and moving interactions I have experienced in any genre, Ms. Willis invests her protagonists with a humanity and realism unparalleled by any other genre author I can recall reading.  Criticism that some of the characters are flatly rendered is preposterous, Ms. Willis' characterizations even with the secondary characters rising far above the typical protagonists encountered in most fantasy and science fiction.  And, as other reviewers have commented, the final scenes with Father Roche, Agnes and Rosemund should stir the emotions of even the most cynical, nor have I ever encountered children more realistically and poignantly portrayed.<br />The author has invested this tale with a great amount of historical detail and realism, bringing the period of 1348 England back to life in a way that should satisfy even the most fastidious historical scholar.  And, as others have noted, there is an element of humor running throughout the narrative that alleviates some of the grim circumstances being recounted, offering a balance to what essentially is a tragedy leaving the central participants forever changed .  Even more astonishing is the author's ability to interweave both the tragic and comic elements without their ever seeming forced or overtly contrived.  She avoids both the farcical as well as the melodramatic, making the events she narrates and the characters she creates utterly believable.<br />It is a shame that a recent work such as Michael Crichton's &quot;Timeline,&quot; with it's obvious borrowings from this book, should have garnered by comparison such a wide readership, while &quot;The Doomsday Book&quot; remains relatively ignored except for devotees of fantasy and science fiction.  While perhaps lacking the rousing action that typifies much of the common currency of these genres, the author's skill of writing and the humanity in which she invests her tale elevates this work well beyond the ordinary tale encountered in any genre.  It is a memorable work that easily stands alone, and I would strongly recommend it to anyone, regardless of his or her taste in fiction.	2000-12-30
US	52832478	R17SFJYZULFLQN	0380811146	230662326	Lost Burgundy:: The Book Of Ash, #4	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Series Ends Strongly, Weakened By &quot;Authorial&quot; Intrusion	There is much to recommend this book as well as this series:  strong and detailed military description, vivid reconstruction of the medieval period, and a strong central protagonist, as well as secondary figures, who evolves and develops as character, at the end coming to an epiphanous realization about herself and the world she inhabits.  The prose is solidly constructed, and great emotion evoked in the scenes where Ash begins to accept her humanity and her true feelings for the men and women she leads.  And, at least in the first book, intriguing questions are raised as to the veracity of history, and our contemporary interpretations of the past.<br />This examination of history is accomplished through the fictional and contemporary commentary and correspondence of a professor purportedly translating and collecting the medieval manuscripts that recount the life of Ash, a female mercenary leader of the late fifteenth century.  Presented in a manner mimicking an academician's notes and correspondence with his publisher, this &quot;history&quot; is written complete with the &quot;author's&quot; commentary, as well as running emails to his publisher.  While intruding upon the main narrative recounting the life of Ash, in the first book this secondary story line does much to inform and expand upon the theme of the primary narrative, used as a running dialogue to examine our contemporary notions and the validity of our reconstruction of a period in which evidence is scanty and often of questionable provenance.  Becoming a larger exploration into our comprehension and knowledge of the past, this device, while interrupting the narrative flow of the story surrounding Ash, nonetheless raises questions about the events being narrated, and by extension all accounts of events of this period, that are intriguing and thought provoking, elevating the narrative beyond the usual fantasy fiction.<br />However, in the books that succeed &quot;A Secret History,&quot; this device of &quot;authorial&quot; intrusion becomes less successful and more and more contrived, playing little role in the second and third books other than to maintain its own presence within the fiction that this is history, already established in the first book.  In &quot;Lost Burgundy&quot; its role again becomes prominent, but here, despite earlier hints, significantly shifts to an examination of history, both past and present, through the lens of quantum theory and parallel universes, or, in this case, probabilities and random possibilities and man's potential to eventually--if not already--control and determine reality.  While these themes might offer a rich potential in a different fictional setting, I did not find them comfortably or convincingly interjected into the medieval and realistic world the author has created within her main narrative.  Instead, this device seemed contrived and largely separate from the main narrative, the latter serving as an excuse for the author to explore themes not credibly established in the primary story surrounding the life of a medieval mercenary.  Further, the last forty pages of this book used to take these musings to their logical--I would argue illogical in terms of the narrative's primary context--conclusion did much to undermine the power of the conclusion to Ash's story, separating the ongoing dialogue and exposition of Dr. Ratcliff's translation and commentary into a distinct story line only artificially and unconvincingly associated with the medieval tale of Ash.<br />For this reason, my response to the &quot;Book(s) of Ash&quot; is mixed and qualified.  I greatly enjoyed the realism and reconstruction of military life in medieval Europe during the fifteenth century, and largely found the story of Ash and her confederates compelling, if at times lacking somewhat in dramatic action.  While battles and confrontations do take place, convincingly and vividly enacted, the bulk of the narrative more often than not is concerned withdescription and setting, military councils and character development, realistically drawn and set out, than climatic action.  The pace, therefore, will not please everyone.  Nonetheless, for those willing to let the tale unfold, for those who value historical and descriptive realism, as well as subtle and evolving characterization, they will likely find a rich and satisfying story.  However, were I to read it again, I would skip the sections devoted to Dr. Ratcliff's discovery and interpretation of the &quot;manuscript&quot; upon which the story is purportedly based.  The rest of the story can largely stand on its own without its inclusion, which is ultimately intrusive and distracting and, after the first book, contributes little other than to muddy and explore themes inconsistent and contrively forced upon the rest of the narrative.  Because of its presence, if allowed, I would award this book, and the series as a whole, three and a half stars.	2000-12-19
US	52832478	RT2Q6S42GHF6O	0380811138	636759549	The Wild Machines:: The Book Of Ash, #3	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Story Stalls In The Details, Redeemed At The End	As with book two of this ongoing saga, if allowed I would probably award this installment an additional half star.  A shift back to Burgundy after Carthage, and, unlike the first two books, clearly separate in its plot development, Ash returns to confront the Visigoth forces besieging Dijon.  While the military realism that has distinguished the earlier two books continues here, to a large degree it comes to dominate the bulk of the narrative, with much of the story bogging down in details about the siege and military councils.  And, once again, we are regaled with descriptions of pauldrons, greaves, gauntlets and cuisses as Ash puts on and takes off her armor.  While this contributed a great degree of realism to the earlier books, after innumerable acts of accoutrement the ritual and by now overly detailed arming of Ash has become worn and wearisome.  The repeated descriptions of bevors and sallets, as well as mangonels and placement of forces, cannot alone sustain the story, and with very little else taking place, begins to erode the earlier value of its contribution.<br />As an previous reviewer has noted, the answer to certain mysteries is revealed, and the characterization of Ash and her company remain strong.  However, much of these revelations come at the end of the book, along with a stirring variation upon the Great Hunt that does much to redeem the often plodding and repetitive detail burdening the earlier chapters, and acts as a springboard into the action that opens the fourth and final work of this quartet, &quot;Lost Burgundy.&quot;  While the detail dominating the first three fourths of this book, regardless of how well written, had begun to slow my interest, the narrative's vivid conclusion left me wanting more, and I have already begun the last book.  Hopefully it will sustain the pace and interest established in this book's conclusion	2000-12-15
US	52832478	R15Y44URGUYQRZ	0380805502	364694745	Carthage Ascendant : The Book of Ash 2	Books	4	10	14	N	N	Elements Of Realism Begin To Unravel	Had I been allowed to award half stars, I would have given this second installment of Mary Gentile's medieval reconstruction 3.5 stars.  The second book continues its detailed and military reinvention of history directly from where the first book left off, and, in my opinion, should not have been separated from the first, the storyline too joined and directly linked in terms of time and plot for the division into two books to be seen as anything but an arbitrary decision likely based upon some misplaced notion of merchandising.  Books one and two should have been published as a single text, as together they possess an obvious and coherent structure.<br />The strengths of the first book continue here: a detailed and realistic portrayal of warfare in the late middle ages, and a strong characterization of the mercenary band fighting under the Lion Azure standard of the story's protagonist, Ash.  The latter's character evolves further, and there are some poignant as well as harrowing moments of self-realization on the part of our tale's heroine.  The evolution of her relationship with several of the narrative's secondary characters--Floria, Fernando del Guiz, and Godfrey--as well as the emerging roles of John de Vere and Ash's lieutenants are deftly done, and over all the writing seems more solid than some of the prose found in the first book.<br />However, I found elements of this multifaceted tale beginning to become less relevant or incongruous to the tale at large.  As another reviewer has noted, the ongoing and in part separate story of the discovery of the Ash manuscripts upon which the main narrative is based, being told by a modern day historian in the form of emails to his publisher, has begun to be less integrated into the larger tale, with a smaller presence than found in the first book.  While I do believe its lessening presence is probably a necessary development in order to contain its inherent interruption of the flow of the narrative, its continued presence no longer seemed as relevant to the rest of the story, providing little that informed or questioned the underlying themes of history or perception contained in the first book, becoming more a separate and increasingly contrived element that intruded upon the rest of the text.  Further, the introduction--or I should say development--of the voices and stone golem into a &quot;machina rei militaris,&quot; a &quot;tactical computer&quot; through which other &quot;wild machines&quot; speak with inhuman and demonic direction, introduced an modern day or science fictional element that seemed to me incongruous with the medieval realism with which the bulk of the tale is written.  Combined with other elements--Carthage, relicts of ancient Rome, pyramids in Tunisia--these temporally contradictory introductions, though to a degree present and accepted in the first book, begin to become more and more contrived and preposterous within the medieval realism of the story's main setting--almost a kitchen sink approach--regardless of any earlier meditations present in the first book upon the existence of parallel or alternate histories, or the questionable basis upon which we reconstruct the past.  While some fans of science fiction may find this willy-nilly approach to plot elements intriguing, I found it discordant and unsubstantiated within the structure and realism of the main story, unfounded introductions that remained only tangentially and artificially integrated.<br />I will continue to read this tale for the medieval realism and strength of it main story, while trying to ignore its newer and less plausible elements.  It seems unfortunate that the author found herself compelled to introduce these elements.  The medieval reconstruction of history and the qualities she had invested in her characters and their initial conflicts were certainly rich enough on their own around which to build a compelling story.  The author now seems to be throwing in additional and unnecessarymotifs that add little credibility and in part undermine and distract from the main thrust of her story.  Nor is this an instance of where &quot;too much is not enough.&quot;	2000-12-12
US	52832478	R1VDCTJQHMZVYK	0380788691	166781184	A Secret History: The Book Of Ash, #1	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Intriguing and Ambitious Mix of History and Fantasy	As so many other reviewers have gone to great lengths to describe the plot line of this novel--see particularly Richard R. Horton's admirable outline--I see no reason to rehash a summary of the story.  Let it be enough to say that this tale surrounds the medieval life of Ash, a woman and former camp follower who rises to lead a band of mercenaries in late 15th century Europe.  Presented as a history narrating events translated from questionable manuscripts of the period, Ash is essentially a Joan D'Arc figure, hearing voices that direct her combats and associated with parallel legends, though in command of a military body whose motivating goals are far more prosaic and less altruistic.<br />Mary Gentile has invested her novel with her considerable knowledge of medieval and military history (she possesses MA degrees in both Seventeenth Century and War Studies), resulting in an extremely detailed description both of military camp life of the period, as well as the shifting political and social worlds in which the novel takes place.  For anyone interested in this period of history, it is easy to become captivated by the medieval world the author has so descriptively and successfully recreated.  And she has inhabited her world with figures familiar to any student of the period--Charles of Burgundy, Frederick of Hapsburg, or John de Vere--though, in keeping with the fiction of the history being written--the questions arising around the legitimacy of the narrative's medieval sources--these figures play roles or make appearances that contradict the historical timeline of the narrative.<br />It is the author's presentation of this story as actual history, alternate or otherwise, along with the descriptive reconstruction of medieval military life, that in large part sets this story apart from other fantasy.  Purportedly the unpublished manuscript of a respected, modern day academic and historian, written based upon authentic if questioned manuscripts of the period, interlaced with historical and often accurate footnotes as well as reproductions of letters and emails between the author and his publisher, the story is at once presented as both fiction and fact, the lines between the two being intentionally blurred, the historical and descriptive details doing much to add to the illusion of what is imagined being actual.  And this sleight of hand is as much a theme of the narrative as the military struggles and life of its protagonist, used as a medium through which to explore the veracity of history, and the often academic assumptions formed around its study.  As the title implies, this is a secret history, a glimpse at events that could have happened, a questioning of our study of the period which is often based upon texts of questionable provenance, as well as a paucity of actual records, eye-witnesses or verifiable accounts.  The fictitious professor recounting this tale admits, in his emails, that his discovery and translation of the original manuscripts, in part based upon lost and newly discovered documents, will demand a reinterpretation of the history of the period, by inference reflecting the possible fallacies inherent in our own actual study of the period in which conclusions are drawn based upon fragmentary, often biased, and sometimes spurious evidence.  Hidden within this fantasy written as history, despite its tongue-in-cheek admission to fiction, is a fundamental question as to how we interpret and understand our past.  And, like many of the actual manuscripts of the Middle Ages, this story is riddled with legend and apocrypha, confusion of sources, and invention and outright falsification, subject to speculation and various interpretation. For this reason, while I agree with an earlier reviewer's findings that the sections pertaining to the fictitious author's emails to his publisher are interruptive to the narrative flow of the larger story, they are nonetheless essential to any full reading or comprehension of the novel's multiple and reflective dimensions.  The author is using fantasy not only to spin a well-told tale, but to examine issues not commonly found in fantasy.  This alone sets &quot;The Book of Ash--A Secret History&quot; well apart from the run-of-the-mill tale of swords and sorcery, as well as most historical fiction.<br />While Mary Gentile's characterizations and detailed and accurate descriptions are to be applauded, her prose skills do not always match the substantial ambition of this tale.  Many of the sentences seem a trifle awkward and inelegant in composition, with certain passages remaining vague and unclear as to what is experienced or taking place (Ash's injury and subsequent convalescence provides a good example).  Gentile's prose is not the equal of authors such as Jordan, Martin, or Hobb, lacking their narrative flow, and a far cry from lyrical stylists such as Patricia McKillip.  Nonetheless, this is a complex and ambitious novel, written with workmanlike skill, with descriptive imagination and characterization than cannot be discounted, and a gritty, often brutal and detailed realism that successfully captures the period.  One might argue that the author's historical depictions are alone worth the price of admission, and are far more skillfully done than some other works of fantasy disguising themselves in their accuracy of historical detail, such as the recent &quot;The King's Peace&quot; (Here I find Mr. Horton's praise and description over-generous).  Though not always succeeding in its prose, this book is deserving of recognition, and is bound to please readers of the period, as well as offering many a fresh approach and reinterpretation to both history and fantasy.	2000-12-09
US	52832478	R1EEQJXUFWZKPG	0312874561	671493062	Tales of the Dying Earth	Books	4	87	123	N	N	Reissue Of A Classic That Only In Part Stands Up To Time	This collection of short stories, originally published over the period of 1950 to 1983, are loosely linked through the setting attributed to Vance of a dying earth, existing far in the future yet evidencing many of the characteristics associated with fantasy rather than science fiction (the sci-fi depiction on the cover is misleading).  This setting has since been mined successfully by a number of authors, effectively creating a subgenre of fantasy and science fiction, most notably by Gene Wolfe in his critically acclaimed &quot;The Book of the New Sun&quot; and its successors.  And in many ways this collection does justice to the fertile ground it lays.<br />Vance's strengths are in his descriptive detail and the imagination in which he invests the world that he creates.  Additionally, in the character of Cugel, the protagonist in two of the four &quot;novels&quot; included here, the author has created a delightful scoundrel, in many ways reminiscent of Leiber's Grey Mouser, and written with a similar sense of humor.  Some have also noted Vance's ironic style of writing, as well as a tendency to formalism in language, though, in my opinion, at times the latter is overdone, particularly in the first section that here forms the novel &quot;The Dying Earth.&quot;<br />While this first section contributed in large part to establishing the notion of a decaying and failing world as a convention for future writers, in many ways it is the weakest series of stories in the collection.  All of Vance's work in thinly plotted, and this group of stories is only tied together by its common setting, tales of various magicians whose stories exist in large part individually, though some crossover occurs in &quot;Turjan of Mir&quot; and &quot;Mazirian the Magician,&quot; as well as less significantly elsewhere, through a sharing of differing characters, secondary players in the stories often appearing elsewhere as the main protagonist.  However, except for this loose association, andthat of setting, the stories here must be considered separately, some more strongly plotted and written than others, with certain magical events--a strong element throughout the book--occurring with little explanation or foundation.<br />The second two &quot;novels&quot; in this volume pertain to the plights and  ongoing adventures of Cugel the Clever, an amoral rapscallion who more often than not complicates his situation through his attempts to outwit his opponents.  Essentially a loosely strung series of adventures, whose establishing premise repeats itself between &quot;The Eyes of the Overworld&quot; and &quot;Cugel's Saga,&quot; the two &quot;novels&quot; comprising this section, over time, regardless of Vance's inexhaustible inventions, become somewhat contrived and tiresome, a series of episodic encounters sustained only by Cugel's ongoing misfortunes and adventures met upon a twice-told if differing journey back to his home in Almery to face his nemesis, Iucounu the Laughing Magician.<br />The last &quot;novel&quot; in this collection, entitled &quot;Rhialto the Marvellous,&quot; concerns a colloquy of wizards, the last of their number at the very end of the last days of the dying earth.  Much reduced in circumstance and abilities, they nonetheless wield considerable powers, for the most part directed at themselves in a series of separate and inept intrigues contained in the three chapters comprising this section.  While connected both by their magical order and the figure of Rhialto, like the first section, these are clearly three separate stories, though more linear in their composition.  The final chapter, &quot;Morreion,&quot; unlike all the stories that have preceded, is as equally influenced by science fiction as fantasy.<br />Women reading this collection may well find parts that are unpalatable, as there is a distinct undercurrent of misogyny present in chapters of &quot;The Eyes of the Overworld,&quot; the hero Cugel abandoning one female companion to sexual enslavement, and raping another female character, who immediately after drowns, under the pretense of a fictitious marriage.  While both women  are unsympathetically portrayed, at least in terms of Cugel's goals and perspective, this does not entirely obviate the protagonist's actions.  Further, in &quot;Rhialto the Marvellous,&quot; the first chapter, &quot;The Murthe,&quot; concerns a thinly veiled battle between the sexes, here portrayed as a struggle for dominance between the former rule of a sorceress and the male colloquy of wizards.  The sorceress is able to undermine the wizards by transforming them into women, by implication threatening their masculinity and thus nullifying their power.  There are episodes of burlesque in which the former wizards attire themselves in dresses and jewelry, primping and becoming shrill of voice and nagging in complaint.  The sorceress is finally defeated by summoning her earlier male nemesis, a paragon of masculinity, who counters her magic while at the same time implying that all could be resolved if the sorceress would abandon her obstinate demands for power over the wizards and succumb to his magnetism and desire.  It is doubtful, however humorously presented, that many contemporary women will not view this chapter with a jaundiced eye.<br />In a final aside, I must mention the presence of poor editing, particularly in the first &quot;novel,&quot; on the part of the publisher, Orb.  Part of the Tom Doherty Associates family, which also comprises St. Martin's and Tor, this is the fourth book I have recently read published by this house that has contained obvious oversights in spelling, as well as other editing problems (the other books being &quot;Winter's Heart, &quot;Daughter of the Forest,&quot; and particularly &quot;The King's Peace&quot;).  Recently given the Locus Award for best science fiction and fantasy publisher (Tor), it would seem to me that St. Martin's/Tor/Orb should acknowledge that it has a responsibility, both to its authors and its readers, to present their books at a level that reflects the quality of their authors.<br />All said, despite its flaws, there is much to recommend this book--its imaginative world and the detailed description of its construction.  Much of the work is written with skill, even if the story line at times lags or seems contrived.  Further, the work must be acknowledged for the precedent it established in the creation of its setting, a world that has proven inspirational for succeeding authors.  However, for all its successes, it is doubtful, given the context of the many excellent works being currently written, that without its historical significance for the genre, I would have given it more than three stars.	2000-12-05
US	52832478	R3I5U99SMOZTF6	0201354381	958013619	Real World Bryce 4 (3rd Edition)	Books	4	45	47	N	N	Whether Novice Or Expert, You'll Want To Have This Book	The manual that accompanies this newest version of Bryce is barely useful, full of errors and inconsistencies bound to mislead and, in particular, frustrate the beginner.  Fortunately, there is a place where you can turn to learn the intricacies of the program, &quot;Real World Bryce 4.&quot;  Comprehensive and, for the beginner, daunting in the sheer scope of its information, I suspect that this will become the Bible for Brycers everywhere, whether just starting out or already familiar with earlier versions.<br />With such praise, why have I given it only four stars?  Because not all the chapters are written with the same clarity as others (for example, Chapter 3 on Camera and Scene), and at times it is apparent in the exposition that a presumption exists that the reader has used earlier versions of Bryce, or has some familiarity with other 3D programs.  This assumption at times makes the description of working within 3D space, various tools and instructions less than immediately accessible for the beginner, and is bound to lead to some temporary confusion on the part of the first time user.  One might wish there was a 3D reference that learned from the example of Adobe's &quot;Classroom in a Book&quot; series, and provided more comprehensive tutorials and instruction.  Though the latter are provided here, it is doubtful they are extensive enough to satisfy the needs of those just beginning to use the program.  Fortunately, there are a large number of websites maintained by Bryce enthusiasts who are willing to share their knowledge and experience, and the authors themselves maintain such a site where additional tips are provided.  My final quibble is that before I was even halfway through the book the binding had begun to fall apart, and as I suspect anyone purchasing this book will find themselves referring to it time and again, if for no other reason than that it is impossible to assimilate all the information present in a single reading, you may want to set aside some sturdy tape.<br />Nonetheless, this is an important resource for anyone intending to use Bryce, and, as I noted earlier, will surely set the standard of reference for anyone wishing to explore or use this extraordinary program.	2000-11-25
US	52832478	R2XF7OZDB1T6J	0441007333	947376342	The Tower at Stony Wood	Books	4	2	2	N	N	McKillip Shifts Her Setting To Courtly Space	The setting of this tale is somewhat of a departure for Patricia McKillip, a shift to the courtly and non-courtly space of French romance, and reminiscent in structure to the works of Chretien de Troyes.  Beginning in the knightly court of Yves, the hero, Cyan Dag, is forced on a quest to protect the realm and his king from sorcery brought into the court from outside in the form of the king's new wife.  Like many of the early tales of Arthurian romance, this alien influence threatens the stability and welfare of the court.  Much of the tale revolves, in the best romantic tradition, allegorically and metaphorically around the questing knight's adventures, fraught with magic, with the visible world rarely being what it seems.<br />Actually three stories in one, existing separately and yet reflections of one other, intertwined around the richly laden implications of this number and woven with McKillip's lyrical and vivid prose, this is without doubt the author's most complex and least accessible tale to date, requiring close attention and probably additional reading for full enjoyment.  This is not difficult, given the author's often beautiful prose and compelling imagery, yet in some ways I feel this is also, despite its many rewards, McKillip's least successful work to date.  The opening chapters begin rather perfunctorily, compared to the author's earlier work, somewhat self-consciously and artificially shifting back and forth between the lady in the mirror and the events taking shape at the court of Yves.  While this serves the story's romantic (read as French or Arthurian, not Harlequin) structure, it is somewhat awkward in composition compared to McKillip's previous introductions.  And the conclusion is rather summary and contrived, leaving the reader, regardless of the marvelous final paragraph---as some others have noted---dissatisfied.<br />Nonetheless, this is an ambitious work, again exploring themes present in her earlier books: the meaning behind words, the dual nature of perception and magic, the world that exists just beyond  our glimpse.  And, despite my complaints regarding the book's structure, which lends at times an artificial and rigid construction to the story, it exists as an essential and intentionally informing element to the narrative.  You will have to decide whether its contribution justifies the occasional abandonment of story elements in favor of a more strict and consciously referential plot construction.	2000-11-21
US	52832478	R3LJJPWYPIYLME	0441006787	820879497	Song for the Basilisk	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Another Marvelous Tale From Patricia McKillip	&quot;The Book of Atrix Wolfe&quot; remains for me the best work I have read by Patricia McKillip, and by comparison, this book does not quite measure up, at times being more dream-like in its exposition, not always clearly illuminating the basis for certain actions and resolutions.  Nonetheless, the quality of dream contributes to much of the book's magic, combining with the author's rich prose and inimitable imagination to deliver a tale far superior to most other fantasy.  And while not all the magic that takes place is clearly explained, as George R.R. Martin recently emphasized at one of his readings, magic retains its wonder through its causes and characteristics remaining partially hidden, otherwise becoming, through too clear an exposition, a mere reflection of science.<br />Similar to &quot;Atrix Wolfe,&quot; and in some ways unlike the earlier &quot;Winter Rose,&quot; McKillip returns here to meditations upon the meaning of words, while at the same time more fully exploring the secret powers of music first examined in the earlier &quot;Riddle-Master&quot; trilogy.  These underlying themes follow a structure and tone more reminiscent of &quot;The Book of Atrix Wolfe&quot; than &quot;Winter Rose,&quot; though the realm of faerie so prominent in the two former books are here barely hinted at.  Instead, this tale is more archetypically fantasy, a tale of struggle between good and evil houses, revealed through the magical lyricism that has come to distinguish McKillip's work.  <br />Those that have criticized a lack of emotional characterization I believe have missed a strong and metaphoric chord running throughout the work, as well as underestimated the significance of emotions shown through the subtle gestures and actions of the characters.  While the inner dialogue found in &quot;Winter's Rose&quot; is absent, here it instead becomes fully realized in the nuances of the characters' actions: the assembling of a cage of mirrors by Luna, Damiet's fitful gestures, Caladrius' revelation of his character through the various guises he assumes and the instruments that he plays.  While perhaps not as readily accessible as some of McKillip's earlier works, there is a richness of subtlety just as rewarding for those who read closely.<br />A marvelous book: one that will reward, as have all her recent works, repeated and additional reading.  Though her tales may not offer ready appeal to those seeking swords and sorcery, there is little question that the author's works are among the few and very best that fantasy has to offer.	2000-11-17
US	52832478	R3EC45V3B2Q1CA	0312864256	870089682	Winter's Heart (The Wheel of Time, Book 9)	Books	4	175	204	N	N	9 of 13	That's right: for those of you wondering when this series will end, according to my sources--someone at Tor--there will be four more books.  Nor has this been a recent development: I have been aware of the projected length since before the release of &quot;Crown of Swords.&quot;  And there is a certain logic within the context of the story at ending the series with book thirteen.  Hopefully this will clarify matters for those of you wishing for a rush to conclusion.  Of course, Jordan could always change his mind.<br />What does this bode for the rest of us waiting to read the remaining four books?  I suspect a ratcheting up in the advance of the major plotlines, perhaps hinted at by the conclusion that ends &quot;Winter's Heart.&quot;  There is little question that, in terms of plot advancement, the last three books have slowed considerably, and many would claim that &quot;Path of Daggers&quot; decidedly lagged.  As one of those who defended that book, finding a rationale to its structure justified by a need to establish the set up for events that were to follow in &quot;Winter's Heart,&quot; I must say that not all my expectations were fulfilled.  At the conclusion to &quot;Path of Daggers,&quot; I suspect that many readers--myself included--may have held a reasonable expectation that several major plot threads would be advanced in the following book: Perrin's rescue of Faile and confrontation with Sevanna; Mat's encounter with the Daughter of the Nine Moons and his as yet unrevealed role in countering the Seanchan; Egwene's march to the walls of Tar Valon and confrontation with Elaida; and progress in Rand's movement towards Tarmon Gaidon.  Of these four--and there are others--in &quot;Winter's Heart&quot; only two are addressed, and even then just barely.  Much of the book instead is devoted to further development of interpersonal relationships and world building, as well as secondary plots.  While this is done with the detailed and written skill Jordan has evidenced in his earlier books, it is bound to be a disappointment to those who had hoped for further plot development.  While I suspect within the framework of four more books that the pace will begin to pick up--by necessity if not desire--nonetheless &quot;Winter's Heart&quot; must be perceived, along with the preceding two books, as a period in which the series, in terms of major plot development, has slowed.<br />This does not mean that there are few rewards in reading this work.  Jordan again reveals his mastery in world building, especially in the details of the society of Far Madding.  Egwene, Nynaeve and Elayne are further differentiated, their personalities developing in different, and at times opposite, directions.  In separating the many major characters, Jordan has clearly delineated the emerging differences in their personalities, and while they do at times seem a reflection of each other, nonetheless clear changes and development of character are taking place.  And the emerging role of relatively new characters--especially Cadsuane--are adding fresh strengths to the story.  Finally, Jordan continues to vividly construct the landscape of his world in detail--some would say too much, but I would argue that perhaps no world in fantasy has been realized as fully or successfully.<br />As an aside, I wish to address some of the criticism of this book, as well as some of the praise.  Discussion of Jordan's work has become polarized, and this is unfortunate.  In perhaps understandable frustration many have damned this series, while others have risen to its defense.  At times this has led to comments and ratings that seem based more upon emotions or partisanship than a considered reflection of the work's faults and merits.  Scores and comments ranking any of Jordan's books as trash or deserving of one or two stars ignore the quality of the author's writing, the imaginative character and scope of his tale, regardless of any flaws found in his plot development or characterizations.  Equally, those who praise individual books as if they were the second coming ignore, as in the case here, flaws, such as the lack of &quot;Winter's Heart&quot; to significantly advance the major plotlines, instead becoming engrossed in detail and characterization at the expense of developing the story.  Despite the rousing conclusion, this book is not the equal of books one through six, and while an improvement upon &quot;Path of Daggers,&quot; is not among Jordan's best.  While, compared to many other author's works, it may be one of the best books of the season, weighed against the author's earlier work, it is hardly deserving of full marks, anymore than it is deserving of the lowest.<br />Regardless of one's opinion as to the success of this book or the series--and it is obvious they are divided and many--there is little question that the author is redefining the meaning of epic fantasy, in sheer scale if nothing else.  The scope of Jordan's narrative reveals both its richness and its flaws, the latter being evidenced in the author's desire to expand his creation in ancillary, and some would say unnecessary, plot directions, the richness in the equally epic vision revealed in the unfolding narrative, whether at times lagging or not.  And even though occasionally the main plotlines appear to lose focus, there is never any sense that the author is not fully in command of his story.  Chide him if you wish for stretching out his tale in directions serving their own individual stories, but never doubt that the march is ultimately to Tarmon Gaidon.<br />I suspect, when this series is finally completed, when it can be read from book one to the end, when it is no longer necessary to wait a couple years between installments, that most readers will find a tale complete in its fulfillment, and that many of the current criticisms that appear to stem from impatience may need reassessment.  Of course, this is predicated upon a belief that Jordan will successfully conclude this series, and that the remaining four books will resolve and move more directly to conclusion.  If my earlier assessment of his books and intentions are correct, this will be the result.  If not, we are in for a disappointment as huge as the scale of this epic.aracterizations.  Equally, those who praise individual books as if they were the second coming ignore, as in the case here, flaws, such as the lack of &quot;Winter's Heart&quot; to significantly advance the major plotlines, instead becoming engrossed in detail and characterization at the expense of developing the story.  Despite the rousing conclusion, this book is not the equal of books one through six, and while an improvement upon &quot;Path of Daggers,&quot; is not among Jordan's best.  While, compared to many other author's works, it may be one of the best books of the season, weighed against the author's earlier work, it is hardly deserving of full marks, anymore than it is deserving of the lowest.<br />Regardless of one's opinion as to the success of this book or the series--and it is obvious they are divided and many--there is little question that the author is redefining the meaning of epic fantasy, in sheer scale if nothing else.  The scope of Jordan's narrative reveals both its richness and its flaws, the latter being evidenced in the author's desire to expand his creation in ancillary, and some would say unnecessary, plot directions, the richness in the equally epic vision revealed in the unfolding narrative, whether at times lagging or not.  And even though occasionally the main plotlines appear to lose focus, there is never any sense that the author is not fully in command of his story.  Chide him if you wish for stretching out his tale in directions serving their own individual stories, but never doubt that the march is ultimately to Tarmon Gaidon.<br />I suspect, when this series is finally completed, when it can be read from book one to the end, when it is no longer necessary to wait a couple years between installments, that most readers will find a tale complete in its fulfillment, and that many of the current criticisms that appear to stem from impatience may need reassessment.  Of course, this is predicated upon a belief that Jordan will successfully conclude this series, and that the remaining four books will resolve and move more directly to conclusion.  If my earlier assessment of his books and intentions are correct, this will be the result.  If not, we are in for a disappointment as huge as the scale of this epic.	2000-11-13
US	52832478	R22LAZAC4Z6XTU	0441004385	739800863	Winter Rose	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A Haunting Tale of Unrequited Love &amp; The Spell of the Past	This haunting tale, both literally and figuratively, marks another wonderful entry into Patricia McKillip's world of Faerie.  In this tale the Otherworld wears a darker mask, casting a spell that lures the participants away from their own world and into a realm that despite its beauty hides a cold and indifferent heart.  The key to this realm is a curse, a spectre of the past that threatens the characters to reenact an earlier tragedy.  As much a story about ghosts as fantasy, unrequited love as magic, this tale is woven with all the marvelous skill and wonder found in earlier McKillip works, and with an emotional intensity that perhaps sets it apart, and with a tone and mystery reminiscent of works such as &quot;Wuthering Heights&quot; or &quot;The Turn of the Screw, though placed in a faerie tale setting.<br />McKillip's style of writing also sets her apart from most other fantasists, a prose at once both direct and elegant, with an ability to recast the natural and personal world into a realm vibrating with an urgency of beauty unseen, spirits barely glimpsed, recalling the sense of wonder we once had looking at the world as a child.  Something is always stirring just beyond our sight, and in McKillip's stories it is not only the magical worlds of imagination, but hidden insights as well into human nature and the world we create around us in our minds.  While these stories can be read simply for their narrative power and imagination, there are elements throughout the text that if glimpsed will provoke thought and reconsideration of what we accept as truth.  These themes and metaphoric insights are guised in a manner similar to the author's etheric spirits, a face peering out of the leaves, a figure briefly seen, then gone, though barely glimpsed, haunting and not forgotten.  If you are not provoked into thought, then you need a closer reading.<br />While I enjoyed this work, and will read it again, I did not find it as tightly focused or resolved as some of her other work, such as &quot;The Book of Atrix Wolfe.&quot;  At times the author stretched for similes or understandings that for me remained only partly conveyed.  Perhaps I myself need to take a closer look.  It was for this reason I only awarded it four stars.  However, this qualification is meant only to refer to McKillip's other work--compared to other authors this book qualifies as a solid five stars.  Those of you who haven't read the author's books don't know what you are missing.	2000-11-06
US	52832478	R1LKKPM6SHG1A9	0441003613	246251014	The Book of Atrix Wolfe	Books	5	35	40	N	N	Fantasy Doesn't Get Any Better Than This!	What a wonderful book!  Weaving, retelling and redefining the classic faerie tale in a style at once simple and elegant, McKillip brings a sense of wonder and magic to every page, creating a world at once familiar yet unlike any other I've encountered.  The author has created a haunting fiction in which a thin veil exists between the ordinary and magical, the commonplace, medieval setting of fantasy and the barely perceived kingdom of the Other.  This is the realm of Faerie, the closest I have come to it, outside of traditional folklore, since reading Tolkien, yet written with an individual vision that while drawing upon the rich heritage of mythology and legend, such as the Wild Hunt and the Queen of the Wood, breathes new life into the faerie tale, until the story has a character and wonder all its own.<br />Lovingly and richly detailed, this is not a book to read on an empty stomach.  Scenes of feasts and the kitchen abound, delightfully rendered and salivating.  The descriptions of the wood captures nature in all its beauty as well as its at times its frightening indifference.  The invocation of magic and the spiritual realm are crafted in a way at once wondrous and believable, and for a few hours the reader steps into a world in which he or she wishes they could linger long after the final page reaches its conclusion. Mystery abounds, and it is impossible not to become captured in the author's written spell.<br />This is not, however, simply a tale of wondrous places and larger than life events.  As well as writing lyrically, the author invests her tale with metaphor, and a meditation on words and their relationship to identity.  The duality of things perceived is as much a theme throughout the work as is the ostensible tale of magic gone awry, and, as with the characters, one needs to look closely at the nature of what is named.  I can think of no other author currently writing fantasy that uses the genre as a means to explore larger existential matters, a reflection upon not only the real world but also the world of myth.  This book is truly a feast, not only for the senses but the intellect as well.<br />One of the best works of fantasy I have ever read, at once richly acknowledging the meditative and figurative themes underlying the best traditional folklore, as well as investing the genre with intentions rarely found today in fantasy fiction, written in a style as magical and beautiful as the tale being told.  Beside the wonder of this novel, my praise is but a weak and mute substitute.	2000-11-02
US	52832478	R296Q2XDRK9YFO	0312863934	867847368	Yarrow	Books	4	38	52	N	N	A Book That Both Frustrates And Pleases	Based upon the author's critical acclaim, I thought I should get around to reading one of his works.  And &quot;Yarrow&quot; came billed as a quintessential example of De Lint's writing.  Having read it, I am unsure how soon I'll read another.<br />There is no question regarding the author's ability to write: the opening chapter declares clearly that he is in control of his craft, and can write lyrically and elegantly when he has a mind to.  And the magical elements were masterfully done, weaving various threads of lore into the setting of this urban tale with a believability and wonder reminiscent of Tolkien, McKillip or the best faerie tales.  The main characters, are real and well cast, and it is impossible not to take delight in Tiddy Mun.  Lysistratus exudes an ancient evil.<br />So where is the problem?  It exists for me in the way De Lint has chosen to structure his book (an organization, I am told, common to all his stories).  The novel is composed around several diverse characters, not all of whom play a central role in the story.  This in and of itself would not put me off--after all, it is a common device used successfully by any number of authors, George R.R. Martin and Robin Hobb to name but two.  But De Lint shifts back and forth between his many characters with an alacrity I found disconcerting, often only a couple paragraphs sufficing before he switches to another character, another line of thought.  And, at the beginning of the book--the first hundred  or so pages--many of these characters and plot threads seem incidental, though I will admit he ties most together before the book's conclusion.  Nonetheless, often I found myself just beginning to get into one or another of the characters' tales, only to be abruptly jerked out of their storyline and into another.  While I don't require or necessarily desire a linearly constructed tale, I found the structure here intrusive, and more often than not interrupting the flow of the narrative, though, by theend of the book, events flow to a dramatic and satisfying conclusion, one of the best that I have recently encountered.<br />I additionally found the depiction of the main character, Cat Midhir, as a writer, worn and tired.  So many authors, from Stephen King to Thomas Mann have drawn upon this device, that to find it again resurrected here as a means of meditating upon sources of inspiration and the writing process seemed stale and somewhat shopworn.  Also, I was not enamored with the author's continual name-dropping, both of other speculative fiction writers that he obviously favors, or rock bands it is implied he listens to.  This last habit in particular seemed contrived, serving more to announce the author's own &quot;hipness&quot; than any other purpose, and, at one point, unintentionally reveals De Lint's lack of actual knowledge or involvement with the music he associates himself with--the identification of Led Zeppelin with progressive rock is hardly a reference designed to establish the author's musical credibility.<br />Nonetheless, there is much here to admire, and the inventiveness with which the author approaches establishing his urban fantasy is imaginative and refreshing.  I am sure there are many who, tired of the standard swords and sorcery, will find this book both original and enjoyable.  And, if the author's abrupt and peripatetic style of composition is not distracting, you will certainly discover worlds of wonder and richness.  However, personally I prefer a story with a bit more meat on the bones, and without the ribs showing.	2000-10-29
US	52832478	R3CGE2R4CD4QSO	0441005969	950318092	Riddle-Master	Books	4	114	133	N	N	Reissue of a Classic	It had been years--or should I say decades--since I read this trilogy, so when I found it reissued in a single volume, I had to buy up.  My fond memories of the book were not disappointed, and it still reads as freshly now as it did during the late seventies.  Then, when fantasy still remained dominated by Tolkien, or in the hands of overly prolific imitators, two authors stood out, both for the freshness of their approach and their skill of writing: Stephen Donaldson and Patricia McKillip.  It's fitting, in the author's acknowledgements, to see their names still linked.<br />As the author hints in her introduction, this trilogy lacks the maturity of her later works, such as &quot;The Book of Atrix Wolfe,&quot; &quot;Winter Rose,&quot; or the recent &quot;Song for the Basilisk.&quot;  Yet all the elements are evident that have contributed to making Patricia McKillip one of the finest authors writing fantasy fiction today: beautiful, at times lyrical, prose, imaginative and original themes and characters, and a wondrous sense of the magical that infuses both her world and story throughout.  Each world she creates is unique and thoughtfully rendered, with elements designed to provoke both thought and wonder, and her characters are some of the most striking found in fantasy fiction--no small accomplishment indeed!<br />While I understand the exuberance behind some earlier reviewers' comments--this work is special and deserving of wide readership--some of the praise here goes overboard.  Compared to the second two books, &quot;The Riddle-Master of Hed&quot; is a rough cut, both in conception and in terms of its writing.  It lacks the assurance of the later two books, and, despite some marvelous passages, such as the book's opening and the story of Peven, at times rambles and exhibits writing in need of further polish and greater concision.  Essential for establishing much of the basis for the rest of the trilogy, and containing many marvelous episodes and characters, itnonetheless displays the lack of focus and more assured writing skills evident in the following two books, and for this reason prevents me from according it full marks.  And, this early trilogy is certainly not up to the standard of the author's later and more mature work.<br />That said, I nonetheless consider this a classic of the genre, far more imaginatively written than scores of other work currently lining retailer's shelves.  Further, it is written with a style that sets the author apart from almost all other wordsmiths presently practicing the genre, a beauty of voice that makes her tales compelling and unique.  And while I am dubious of the many comparisons to Tolkien, there is a sense and tone of wonder echoing throughout this story that I have never found elsewhere except in Tolkien's work.  I cannot recommend this book more highly.	2000-10-26
US	52832478	R531U7VQU69RD	0812515285	646002347	A Fire Upon The Deep (Zones of Thought)	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Imaginative, Well Written Sci-Fi That Stalls Occasionally	I should qualify the comments that follow by stating that I am not a huge fan of science fiction, feeling that often elements of storyline and characterization become sacrificed at the expense of scientific theories and content.  Any true fan of the genre should therefore temper my observations accordingly.  <br />That said, I found this work by Vernor Vinge in large part enjoyable and imaginatively written--so much so that he dispelled many of my normal reservations regarding alien races based upon animals with earth-based antecedents.  Normally I would find an intelligent and manually dexterous race predicated upon wolves preposterous, both visually and scientifically.  However, Vinge imbued them with so much individual character and inventively wondrous social interaction, that I quickly found myself accepting the premise despite my initial skepticism, and I felt the marvelous exploration of pack consciousness justified their inclusion.  In a similar way, the author made the plant-based  Sroderiders entirely credible.<br />I both agree and disagree with some earlier reviewers' comments.   I found that the story stalled during the initial chapters of Part Two, in which a great amount of discourse is devoted to the space travel between Relay and Harmonious Repose, and the nature of Zones, the Net and various matters of propulsion and ship design.  This slowing of pace is also reflected concurrently in the events taking place upon Tines World.  It was here, for me, that the elements of story were abandoned in favor of theoretical and scientific exposition, and the unfolding of the narrative suffered accordingly.  In other sections of the book, most notably Part One, these elements are present, but more effectively balanced and interwoven with the storyline and evolving characterization, and it was this theoretical indulgence and diversion that prevented me from according the novel full marks.  Also, while the inclusion of communiques on the Net were often effectiveas a means of updating the reader to events occuring elsewhere in the galaxy, after a time I felt the device became too repetitive and obvious, at times interrupting the flow of the narrative unnecessarily.<br />Part One and the events following Harmonius Repose do not suffer from this slowing of storyline, and the setting established in Part One is masterfully done.  Some have complained about the lack of suspense at the conclusion, but I found the events building in expectation in Part Three, and could not put the last hundred pages down.  While the final chapter has a summary feeling, I was well satisfied by the conclusion, especially the fate of the Society for Rational Investigation, one of the occasions where I felt the use of Net messages both appropriate and commanding.<br />All in all an enjoyable and entertaining read, written with skill and imagination.  Recommended, and, if you are willing to wade through the exposition that dominates the early chapters of Part Two, I believe you will find yourself amply rewarded.	2000-10-19
US	52832478	R24LXF6DFKZAIS	1928999085	2547953	The Life of Sir Aglovale de Galis	Books	4	15	15	N	Y	A Notable Reissue Of Arthurian Legend	Written in 1905 by Clemence Houseman, the sister of poet A.E. Houseman and playwright Lawrence Houseman, this is the tale of one of Arthur's lesser knights, the elder son of King Pellinore, who appears but briefly in Mallory's &quot;Morte D'Arthur.&quot;  In Houseman's story a seriously flawed character, the author uses Aglovale to portray the psychologically darker side of the Round Table, the envy and at times murderous contention for acclaim and recognition that haunts Arthur's court.  A tale of individual and social spiritual decay, it follows the struggle of Aglovale to discover redemption when his actions have already damned him, not only in the eyes of his peers, but more importantly in his own estimation as well.<br />This is not a work that will appeal to everyone.  The author has intentionally mirrored the writing style of Mallory, whom in the text she acknowledges as &quot;The Master.&quot;  The archaic, and some might say unnecessarily dense, style of writing is bound to deter the casual reader, while at the same time delighting fans of Mallory, and the narrative reads as if a lost chapter of the latter author's work.  Nonetheless, for anyone who has loved the Morte D'Arthur, as well as the scholar of Arthurian romance, this will be a valuable addition to the literature surrounding the legend, and a book not to be missed.  The publisher, Green Knight, who is devoting itself to the publication of out of print &quot;classics&quot; in Arthurian romance, as well as contemporary works of fantasy  based upon the legend, has done a great service in reissuing this long unavailble title.	2000-10-10
US	52832478	R243KO1LN74C0L	0312872291	798059063	The King's Peace (The King's Peace, Book 1)	Books	2	17	30	N	Y	Disappointing Debut That Remains Stillborn	I had looked forward to this book since I first heard about it in May.  The buzz prior to publication was that this was something special, born out by some of the comments contained on the dustjacket:  &quot;'The King's Peace' is the novel that the 'Mists of Avalon' should have been (Debra Doyle),&quot; and &quot;Head and shoulders and sword-arm above most fantasy (Ken Macleod).&quot;  In response to the first statement, all I can wonder is why Debra Doyle, a fantasy writer, should have wanted a work like this as substitution, as it lacks both the magic and vibrancy of the earlier work, nor comes close to other renderings of the Arthurian legend, such as T.H. White's &quot;The Once and Future King,&quot; or Nikolai Tolstoy's &quot;The Coming of the King.&quot;  As far as Ken Macleod's recommendation, I am left to wonder what fantasy he's been reading, as well as question what I have to look forward to when I begin to read his acclaimed science fiction series, which I just purchased based upon similar praise.  I can only hope he writes better than Ms. Walton.<br />This book reads in many ways as a chronicle, not unlike some of the works written in the 11th thru 14th century to recount the events of the period and those preceding.  This is perhaps intentional on the part of the author, but if so, severely limits her prose to an episodic unfolding of events that remains for the most part rather lifeless and stiff.  There are very few dramatic moments here, and a great amount of exposition.  The majority of the characters remain flat, and the choice of first person point of view does little to expand upon our knowledge and understanding of many of the secondary characters.  Loosely based upon the legends surrounding Arthur, the author takes great pains to recreate the possible society of the period, the evolving role of the nascent Church, the conflicts between an older culture and an emerging society based upon law and tolerance, as well as the remnants left by the earlier conquest of Rome, here referred to as the Vincans.  I must assume that it is these elements that Ms. Dobyns refers to admiringly in her comments.  However, even here the author falters in her presentation, attributing part of the Arthurian-styled king's success to the development and military discipline of the ala, and their use of the massed charge with spears (read lances couched).  There is no evidence for this practice during the time the legendary Arthur may have lived; indeed it did not become a factor, as John France has so convincingly argued in &quot;Western Warfare in the Age of the Crusades,&quot; until at the earliest the First Crusade, and was not a common practice until the 14th century, almost a thousand years after the first mention of any figure upon which the Arthurian legend may be based.  Normally, within the context of fantasy, I would not make historical accuracy an argument.  But as the author has gone to great lengths to purportedly recreate the historical age of Arthur, and as this characteristic is debatably the only element that sets the novel apart from other contemporary renditions of Arthurian legend, her inaccuracy here undermines the work's only arguable strength.<br />Aside from the rather plodding account of events that organizes and defines the tone of this work, the style of writing itself is inelegant and at times awkward composed and unclear.  The publisher, Tor, has done the author a disservice, as there is little evidence of copy editing, which would have done much to clarify the structure of the sentences, as well as perhaps added some concision.  And, just as the story begins to show signs of dramatic action and secondary character development, as in the case of Conal, the book awkwardly and abruptly concludes, the alacrity of its ending demanding that resolution will have to await successive volumes.  I, for one, will not be in any rush to read the next book.<br />Despite the effort to recapture the period of 6th century England, this book does not have enough strengths in storytelling, characterization, or writing skill to recommend it.  There is far too much exposition and accounting of events for the creation of dramatic tension, and I was never able to become fully engaged with the story.  This is a shame, as the premise has so much potential, and other authors continue to mine the Arthurian legend successfully.  The author has a ways to go before she can make any similar claim.	2000-10-09
US	52832478	R2G22GY5UL472T	0553106635	549456361	A Storm of Swords (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 3)	Books	5	128	152	N	N	The Days Of Our Lives	This series has evolved into a soap opera---a damn good one, but a melodrama nonetheless.  Almost every chapter is a cliffhanger, and the ending is geared to keep you hanging in suspense while you wait for the next installment.  Shifting and twisting from one character and plot thread to the next, many pass each other like ships in the night, and just when you think they might meet and provide some resolution, they sheer away again, following their own separate adventure, only the general upheaval of the book's background holding the multiple storylines together.  This is not a series that appears anywhere near a conclusion, and with  the author's ability to continuously create and weave together more and more credible subplots, don't expect an ending to this series any time soon: after all, as the text admits, Daenerys' dragons are years away from being able to be ridden.<br />The title for this installment is not as apt as the previous: no battle occurs equal to the Blackwater, nor do the many opponents---ironmen, wildlings, Targaryen, Baratheon, Stark, or Lannister, let alone the Others---ever come together to meet in a single climatic battle, as the title might imply.  Instead, the political conspiracy, betrayal and murder of the previous two books continues to dominate the tale, liberally leavened with slaughter and skirmishes.  Players come and go, the plots multiply and thicken, and even what is expected often takes an unanticipated turn.  And it is the profusion and complexity of Martin's intrigues that arguably sets this series apart from the other prominent fat fantasists, Terry Goodkind and Robert Jordan.    They as well depend upon a profundancy of subplots and scheming to extend and carry their stories, but Martin arguably does it more tightly and with greater relish.<br />One might detect a note of criticism in my preceding comments.  There is a suspicion that this nine hundred odd page volume could easily have been reduced by a couple hundred pages.Many of the subplots and episodes in this book appear to exist for their own sake, contributing little to advance the overall storyline---There is a noticeable shift of tempo between the first and second half of the book.  And at times the author's obvious manipulation of the reader's interest becomes wearisome and frustrating.  However, there is little question as to the author's ability to spin a story, juggling so many without once losing control, and for most, I suspect, the plethora of plots and intrigues---even the repetitive cliffhangers---will prove appealing.  Martin writes with a vividness of detail and characterization that never pauses, and has created a diverse cast of characters in which one feels invested.  And the author could never be faulted for his imagery or a lack of imagination.  Certainly one of the best books of the year.	2000-10-01
US	52832478	RF49YDIE9OLRM	0593044703	599137545	Gardens of the Moon: a Tale of the Malazan book of the Fallen	Books	5	64	84	N	Y	Deadhouse Gates	As Bantam, for some inexplicable reason, persists in delaying publication  of Steven Erikson's books in the States, I wanted to announce for those of  you listening---and for those of you who are unfamiliar with the author but  should be---that the sequel to &quot;Gardens of the Moon has been released  in Britain, and is available through amazon.co.uk.  And yes, in many ways  it is even better than the original.<br />                    If you prefer  fantasy that draws upon the familiar, the tried and true as well as tired  conventions, a storyline that is easily                     recognized and  with which you are already well acquainted, with a main character whose  adventures you can readily follow and a                     plot that is  simple and linear, this is not the book for you. Shifting between a rich  and varied cast of characters, with events taking                     place  at a pace that at times leaves the reader breathless, this vivid and  multifaceted tale contains enough material to fill another                      author's ten books. And, despite all the twists and turns confronting  the narrative, rarely does the story ever lag or falter, instead                      hurtling on through a world so richly imagined and textured that  any other writer must look on in wonder and envy---I know I                      certainly do.<br />                    Stephen Donaldson has hailed the  author's imagination as being &quot;vast in scope&quot; and &quot;almost  frighteningly fecund.&quot; I could not                     agree more.  This is a work that demands the reader's attention: so much is taking place  that if you blink you may miss it. Though                     at times the  author's prolific weaving of plot threads and imaginative furies can almost  overreach themselves, never once is the                     reader left  long dangling, instead swept back into the maelstrom of events and worlds  that not so much unfold as rush to berevealed,  anticipation racing over every page. Even in rare moments, when the  narrative's aims seem unclear, the vivid writing                     holds  one spellbound.<br />                    Quite an accomplishment, and not for  the faint of heart. Without a doubt, one of the best books of the year.  There's a new voice in                     fantasy, one as ringing and  exuberant and clear as a legion's clarion call, and it belongs to Steven  Erikson.	2000-09-19
US	52832478	R11KIHGXJHR18X	0582037867	182032205	William Marshal: Court, Career and Chivalry in the Angevin Empire 1147-1219 (Medieval World)	Books	5	106	107	N	Y	Definitive Reexamination of a Medieval Icon	David Crouch's biography of William Marshal, an icon in his own time, a  courtier and knight who served five kings--Henry II, Henry the Young King,  Richard the Lionheart, John, and Henry III--as well as  a queen, Eleanor of  Aquitane, coming to represent the ideal of the corteis (courtly) to his  peers and the embodiment of chevalerie for those who have since studied the  period, does much to ground the legend and question earlier interpretations  that often accepted the contemporary accounts of Marshal's life at face  value.  Earlier biographers, such as Painter and the French doyen of  medieval history, Georges Duby, based much of their understanding of  Marshal's life upon the posthumous &quot;Histoire de Guillaume le  Mareschal,&quot; a still extant epic poem commissioned by Marshal's sons  and followers to celebrate his life and many accomplishments.   Surprisingly, previous writers have chosen to base their biographies,  especially Duby, almost entirely upon what is  obviously, regardless of any  factual accounting, a suspect source, in doing so ignoring other  contemporary documents that go a long way to tempering the portrait of  Marshal, not only in the &quot;Historie&quot; but in the subsequent  biographies from which they were based.  <br />Instead of the chivalric hero  of  battlefield and tournament cast in the mold of Chretien de Troyes, or  the often fortunate simpleton of Duby that rose to the heights of medieval  society through the sheer prowess of his arms, in Crouch we find a poor,  relatively minor-born knight who through valor and shrewd financial  self-interest uses both the battle and tournament field to promote his own  fortunes, aided at times by pure good luck, which he is quick to turn to  his own advantage.  Upon entry to the courts of the powerful we discover a  man who was deft in manipulating the intrigues of his betters for his own  benefit, quick to ally himself with those who could help him, adept at  playing one party off againstanother, and, when his politics stumbled,  able to ultimately survive and reverse his misfortunes where other men  fell.  Charismatic, he both received and demanded loyalty from the mesnie  and supporters that surrounded him.  Generous to his followers, he could be  equally stern and unforgiving to those that opposed him, in many ways  reflecting the values of the aristocratic society of which he was a part.   At the end, he survived both rebellions and the displeasure of the kings  whom he served, becoming one of England's most powerful magnates and regent  for Henry III, in effect ruling England in the boy king's stead.<br />The  author uses his biography to examine the role of the mesnie in 12th century  medieval society, as well as the function of the tournament, both as a  social phenomenon and an avenue for advancement, both financial and social.   He investigates the evolving notion of chivalry, both as an ideal and its  actual practice.  And he makes a cursory foray into the influence of  religion, especially as it pertained to the noble's household, with its  dependence upon an administration of clerical clerks.  As much an insight  into medieval military and noble society as a biography, the author has  leavened his account with some wonderful anecdotes, such as Richard I's  remonstrance with Marshal against killing him in battle, and Henry II's  pique with his son over the latter's crossbowmen firing at him during a  period of The Young King's insurrection.  The various interactions and  shifting allegiances between King Henry II and his often recalcitrant sons  is illuminating in itself.  Though Marshal was often out of the king's  favor, Henry II nonetheless twice requested that Marshal serve his son,  even though the son was at war with his father, and Marshal's military  skills and allegiance would be turned against him!  Quite a different  mindset than what we're accustomed to today.<br />At present, this must be  considered the definitive biographyof a medieval icon who not only  influenced his own times, but the imaginations of subsequent generations.   I suspect that many who read this account will be left wishing for more.   Both the Painter and Duby biographies have their value, though the former  has long been out of print and will require some effort to find.  Read  their accounts, then use this book to place their flaws in perspective.   Also, Crouch indicates that the original &quot;Historie&quot; will soon be  available in translation.  <br />An exceptional book, and very highly  recommended.  My only complaint is that the price asked by the publisher is  preposterous.	2000-09-06
US	52832478	R23P62S65J6375	0553380222	57830925	The Grand Design (Tyrants and Kings, Book 2)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	An Improvement Upon The Original	In &quot;Grand Design,&quot; author John Marco has much improved upon his  first book, &quot;The Jackal of Nar.&quot;  As others have noted,  incorporating multiple points of view has added depth and greater dimension  to his ongoing story, while provided additional characters whose  personalities at time outshine Richius'.  Simon in particular is  intriguing, providing almost a parallel to Marco's hero, and often  upstaging his treatment, both in strength of character and sensitivity.   Unburdened by Richius' peripatetic uncertainties and inability too see  himself clearly, Simon comes across as a much stronger character when  confronted by similar situations in which Richius tends to waffle.  It is  my hope that we will see Simon in further installments.<br />Abandoning his  earlier concentration upon Richius, many of the earlier secondary  characters, as well as some new ones, are given equal billing in this book,  doing much to expand upon the complexity of the author's story, not only in  terms of its characters but the storyline as well.  Marco handles the  shifts in perspective deftly, and, unlike his first novel, has imbued them  with greater emotional intensity.  As always, his characters are both  sympathetic and flawed, though I believe in this book the author has taken  his characterizations to a new level, with only his original hero changing  relatively little from the first installment. As his presence is less  obtrusive amongst the varied cast here, problematic elements about Richius  that persist from the first book are less noticeable and intrusive.  <br />I  guess the biggest problem that I have with the character of Richius is that  he seems not to learn from his previous errors, paying great lip-service to  the destructive nature of vengeance, vacillating back and forth between  participation and regret, yet persisting in its pursuance, once again  placing all he loves at risk for the illusory goal of retribution.  As the  self-destructive and empty reward of revenge and consuming hatred is a  major theme of this novel, echoed again and again, it would be more  convincing if the main hero experienced an epiphany equal to those of  Herrith, Simon, and Enli.  Instead, he often seems simply carried along  with events.<br />I would have given this work a greater score were it not for  the implausibility of events that take place at the book's conclusion.  Not  wishing to give the end away, I will only say that an act of forgiveness  takes place that seems weakly founded upon one character's response to  another, and while some effort is expended to provide reasons for the  character's change of heart, I found it unconvincing.  Further, in  structure the conclusion to this book is very similar to the last, an  emerging device that I think it would be better for the author to jettison.   Nonetheless, the author is moving from strength to strength, and this book  should do much to remove the doubts of earlier detractors.  Certainly one  of the better series currently going, (I find myself in accord with the  praise of an earlier reviewer, author Victoria Strauss--not surprising,  perhaps, when you consider she's mentioned in the book's acknowledgements),  and I heartily recommend it while you wait for the release of Martin and  Jordan's newest books later this Fall.	2000-09-02
US	52832478	R2BJ55PCUN1F2J	0553578871	272365831	The Jackal of Nar -Book One of Tyrants and Kings	Books	4	15	18	N	N	Best Fantasy Debut I've Read This Year	While I agree with some of the criticisms mentioned in previous reviews, though not always their degree of harshness, this is nonetheless the best  fantasy debut I've read this year, excelling  first works by authors such  as Juliet Marillier and Elizabeth Haydon which, while good, and in the  latter case more popular, remain more problematic.  Yes, many of the main  character's actions seem self-indulgent and immature, and the action of the  storyline does stall somewhat in the sections entitled &quot;Nar&quot; and  &quot;Phantoms.&quot;  Perhaps in his effort to portray all his characters  as flawed the author has gone too far in his characterization of Richius.   And, perhaps in his effort to provide more background to both his character  and the Empire of Nar, his choice to do so following the action and battle  scenes of the opening chapters seems a let down.  However, I would argue  that some form of expansion upon the book's setting was required.  The  author's choice of how to establish this could maybe have been better, done  in a way that would have retained the earlier tension of the first  chapters--the more driving and successful debut a year ago by Steve Erikson  comes to mind--but in part I suspect that many of the complaints found in  earlier reviews stem from a difference in approach to fantasy fiction, a  desire for readings that fill the pages with relentless and mage-spawned  action (Again, these readers should really check out &quot;Gardens of the  Moon:&quot; it'll leave them breathless).  However, this is not the sole  reason I turn to fantasy fiction.  Good storytelling for me is not entirely  based upon fast paced narration, and for this reason John Marco's tale has  largely succeeded.<br />The author's strengths are his depictions of battles,  descriptive detail, and political intrigue.  While others have arguably  done it better--George R.R. Martin comes to mind--Marco's efforts here are  far more than just credible.  And comparison to Martin's &quot;Song of Ice  and Fire&quot; series is both apt and inevitable.  The medieval-based  military and political world in this book is also grim, and those readers  that quailed at Martin's depiction will likely blanch equally here.  Many  of the secondary characters tend at times to upstage the leads, with  particularly lavish and effective attention paid to the villain Count  Renato Biagio.  But even he has his sympathetic moments, and herein lies  one of the books strengths: an general avoidance of typecasting, an attempt  to render many of the characters in a manner that makes their actions  understandable and believable, regardless of the baseness of their  motivations or the evil that results.<br />It is perhaps because of the  strength of treatment of many of the secondary characters that Richius'  flaws of characterization stand out.  I attribute this to a weakness in the  author's ability to breath emotional depth into many of the main  character's scenes that demand it.  In particular the rape and subsequent  regret that follows seems weak and unconvincing, and the relationship  between Sabrina and Richius, while somewhat examined from the former's  perspective, seems superficially rendered from Richius' point of view, with  his response to his wife and other events at times hardly sympathetic.   Because of this, and similar attenuated emotional responses on the part of  the hero, I believe his choice of action in many episodes comes across as  hollow and unconvincing, leading to many of the previous reviewers'  criticisms of his portrayal being on occasion inexplicable and  unconvincing.  Further, the author touches upon issues of feminism, racism,  and the inevitable false justifications of the brutality of war without  ever exploring them to their full potential, which, in my opinion, is a  missed opportunity, and could have done much to elevate this novel above  the ordinary. <br />Nonetheless, this is a first novel that is very strongly  rendered.  The solitary description by J.V. Jones that this is a  &quot;military fantasy&quot; is unfortunate, as it sets up expectations not  entirely represented by the text.  True, military matters dominate much of  the story, and represent some of its strongest moments.  But this is as  much a tale about a character coming to grips with his own identity in a  world determined to destroy him through his choice to go his own way, as  well as the shifting nature of truth and morality.  At times these currents  of the novel become muddied or are not fully realized, yet the effort  deserves to be applauded, and in terms of the overall storyline, succeeds.   Based upon the strengths of this work, John Marco appears to have a bright  future before him, and I look forward to the tales he has yet to tell.   With that expectation, I have already sought out the sequel, and would  recommend this work to any looking for more than the common book of spells  and over-blown heroes.	2000-08-25
US	52832478	R1ULLPMH8Y0V9L	0812570812	953091978	Rhapsody : Child of Blood	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Strong Debut and Voice	I really wanted to give this book a higher rating, and would have were half stars allowed.  This is a decidedly strong debut that imaginatively  jumps out at the start and for the most part keeps the pace rolling.  The  opening chapters cleverly establish the premise that is to come, and the  shifts in time and time character are both effectively done and driving in  their interest.  While none of the main characters is particularly unique  to either fantasy or Hollywood, Haydon breaths fresh and vigorous energy  into the stereotypes, rendering them in a way that is both credible and  engaging, Grunthor in particular successful except when he reverts too  heavily into English slang of the last century.  <br />And therein suggests  the hitch---not singular---that weighs down the tale's obvious strengths  and prevents me from enthusiastically ranking it among the best.  There are  many wonderful and inventive elements to this story: the cwellan, the  vibrational magic of song and blood, much of the lore and the way in which  Time is spun.  Even with its faults this is a hard book not to enjoy.  But  the tale tends to ramble and often loosely evolve, at times stalling  between episodes that start off well enough, such as the over-long travels  along the Root, as well as an ad hoc sense of episodes extraneously strung  together and lacking the tighter plot focus found in better works.  While  there are ample hints that the author has an overall epic tale she wants to  unfold, many of the secondary characters and episodic steps being taken to  get there seem only incidental to the larger plot---Michael, Rhapsody's  &quot;grandchildren,&quot; Tsolton, the visit to the seaside basilica, the  sleeping wyrm, the cavern house of Elysium---occupying a chapter or two  only to be conveniently discarded once the action moves on to the next  event.  It is difficult to imagine authors such as Martin, Hobb, Kay or  even Jordan, with his multitudes, so lackadaisically weaving the threads of  their stories and characters together: every element has an informing role  to play upon the larger stage of their stories. Further, the main  characters have assumed personas much larger than life, with little sense  of vulnerability to the forces they confront, with Rhapsody's god-like and  mesmerizing beauty in particular problematic.<br />Nonetheless, there is no  doubt in my mind as to the strength and inventiveness of Elizabeth Haydon's  authorial voice, and this is certainly one of the best debuts to come along  in the last couple years.  I can only look forward to what I am sure will  be work that will  continue to grow in strength, and I certainly won't miss  the next installment.  All in all a pleasurable read and recommended.	2000-08-18
US	52832478	R3SWLEQEDMM1XR	0061054682	76630963	Fugitive Prince (Alliance of Light)	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Otherwise Imaginative, Complex Tale Still Hampered By Prose	There is much to recommend this series: an imaginative world and realm of magic, strong and diverse character development, and a complex,  multi-layered tale.  This book, along with the &quot;Warhost of  Vastmark,&quot; are improvements upon the first two books in the series,  and under normal circumstances I would be tempted to give it a higher  scoring.  However, the author's dense and often over-wrought language  continues to obstruct both the pace and the  accessibility of the  narrative, through style further convoluting an already complex tale, and  often interrupting and intruding upon the rhythm and evolution of the plot.   Action is often halted by digressions into unnecessary and over-stated  detail, and when a simple explanation or description would suffice, a  heavily laden sentence instead is interjected.  Though often the author's  use of language can be applauded for its vividness of description or  singular expression, she turns this strength into a fault, unable to  distinguish when language would best serve the story rather than its own  internal and stylistic voice.  As many other readers have noted the  author's propensity to over-work her prose, I think that it must be  admitted even by the series' adherents that the use of language here  presents an obvious flaw that distances many readers from the tale it is  supposed to serve.<br />That said, there continues to exist much merit and  interest in this epic that will continue to propel the reader along if they  are willing to wade through the author's self-conscious and at times  unnecessary verbiage.  It is readily apparent that the author takes her  work seriously and has ample creative power to render a complex and  multi-dimensional tale.  And when her writing skills are not distracted by  studied considerations of style, she is able to imbue her story with all  the emotional and imaginative engagement present in the best fantasy has to  offer.	2000-08-13
US	52832478	R1V7UXICA8PUI6	0553103237	331407913	Ship of Destiny (Liveship Traders, Book 3)	Books	4	38	43	N	Y	Outstanding Series Whose Conclusion Somewhat Disappoints	After the strengths of the first two books, as well as the opening two  thirds of this volume, I would have been willing to assert that this                          trilogy was one of the best works ever written in fantasy.  In almost all respects, I continue to believe this. However, Hobb has  somewhat                         sadly stumbled in the concluding hundred  pages, appearing to rush to resolution, as if having once predetermined  that this work would be                         a trilogy, she could not  decide to extend it into a fourth book. This is truly unfortunate, has her  conclusion appears rushed and,                         compared to the  pages preceding, loosely wrapped up, with a resolution that is only barely  satisfying. <br />                        After all the character and plot  development that led up to this work, the final hundred pages seem  precipitate. The main characters come                         together  abruptly and in a way that is largely contrived, several are disposed of  summarily, and everyone else lives happily ever after. While                          this type of fairy tale ending may satisfy some, I found the  conclusion to Hobb's earlier Farseer Trilogy far more credible. Further,  the                         disposal of the Chalcedians, the plot against  Bingtown and the Satrapy of Jamaillia, the restitution of the Vestritts,  and the rescue of the                         fortunes of the Wild River  Traders, as well as Reyn and Malta's new identities, never reach full  fruition, rather arbitrarily and hastily wrapped                         up  as are so many other plot threads earlier so well developed and measuredly  evolved, and Wintrow's fate in particular seems atrophied. Finally, the  mystery of Maulkin's Tangle gets                         settled simply  with a quick trip up the river. <br />                        While I continue  to believe overall that this is one of the best works of fantasy that Ihave read, I nonetheless remain mildly disappointed in                          the ending. After the investment of time and energy, both by the author  and myself, in setting up and developing a wonderful story, I can                          only wish that she had been willing to committ an equal  amount of time and development to her ending, which would have provided the                          substantial balance needed to conclude this story  fully. As is, the ending seems somewhat stillborn, with so much more that  it could have                         offered. I can only say that I'm  sorry.	2000-08-09
US	52832478	RHMVKL21ONKIT	0380973359	797159023	Wheel of the Infinite	Books	3	8	12	N	N	Mildly Enjoyable Diversion That Lacks Punch	&quot;Wheel of the Infinite&quot; lacks the tension and pace of Well's earlier &quot;Death of the Necromancer,&quot; as well as some of the latter work's tighter plotting.  On the plus side, the world created here is in  some ways far more authentic, without the obvious borrowings that plagued  the previous book.  Though the setting is obviously an alternate world that  bears a loose resemblance to imaginings of ancient Southeast Asia, Wells  has re-contextualized the land and culture to where they exist not simply  as a dull and derivative reflection, but have a vibrancy and life all their  own.  <br />Unfortunately the same can not entirely be said for either her  characters or the magical elements upon which so much of the story depends.   As with an earlier reviewer, I agree that many of the characters remain  attenuated, both in their own development and their relationship with each  other.  Questions arise that remain unanswered and many of the secondary  characters seem to play walk-on roles that are never fully resolved,  especially in the case of Raith and Rastim's participation near the end of  the book.  In the case of the latter, towards the conclusion Wells seems to  be reaching for a fuller expression of Rastim's personality that comes too  late and remains too abbreviated to become fully convincing.  Revelations  are dropped regarding various characters--Raith and the Adversary in  particular--that beg expansion yet are never taken further.  And, the  magical elements which form so much of the narrative and are supposed to  provide both suspense and an explanation for the events around which the  plot is suspended really often accomplish neither, remaining only partially  illumined, towards the end often more muddled than clear, with a conclusion  that left me somewhat unsatisfied and seemed to require that I simply  accept events as they took place, regardless of a lack of basis or  substantiation. While there was much that intrigued me about the sorcerous  cosmology of Well's world, its often ad hoc presentation kept me at a  distance and never fully dispelled my disbelief.<br />Though I have had  problems with both books that I've read by this author, there is little  question of her potential talent, or her ability to imaginatively and  vividly create worlds, as well as suspense, as was evidenced in &quot;Death  of the Necromancer.&quot;  I will continue to read her work as I expect  with time her stories will only further improve, and I admire her attempts  to rework her fantasy from an often inventive and fresh approach.   Nonetheless, this book offers only a mild diversion, and I would recommend,  if interested, that you wait for the mass-market version before purchase.	2000-08-01
US	52832478	REOS27UZOI048	0061056677	62620892	Warhost of Vastmark (Ships of Merior/Janny Wurts, Vol 2)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	More Tightly Focused Than Previous Two Books	After perusing sales rankings and reviews, it would appear that this series has not garnered the audience of some of its peers, such as Jordan's &quot;Wheel of Time,&quot; Martin's &quot;Song of Ice and Fire,&quot;  Hobb's &quot;Liveship Traders,&quot; Kerr's &quot;Deverry and Westlands  Cycle,&quot; Goodkind's &quot;Sword of Truth,&quot; or even Feist's  &quot;Riftwar Saga.&quot;  While popularity is not necessary evidence of  worth, I suspect, as previous reviewers have noted, both for this work, as  well as the preceding volumes, that the author's at times over-exuberant  use of language in her writing has contributed as much as anything else to  keeping a larger audience at a distance.  This is unfortunate, as this  ongoing tale, particularly as witnessed by the stirring and tautly rendered  battle scenes in this book, has much to offer.<br />Wurt's strengths are  evocative characterizations, complex and multi-layered plotlines and  magical realms, and, when not engaged in over-embellishment, vivid and  energetic descriptive detail.  Unfortunately it is true that the tale at  times gets bogged down or muddied by a profuse use of language, and this  becomes variously a strength as well as the series' greatest detriment.   Nonetheless, I believe there is far more of value going on here than should  be dismissed simply because of a difficulty with language.  <br />Perhaps it  is because I have become inured to Wurt's tendency to overwork her prose,  but it seemed as if in this book she had lightened the flourish of her pen.   In any event, for those that have become engaged in the world of Athera,  there is much that takes place in this volume, and in a more compressed  fashion than in the previous two books.  A major revelation occurs, and  several of the main characters face trials that will permanently alter  their lives.  The events build to tension that should keep you reading, and  the suspense is handled deftly, keeping the imaginary nerves taut.  In many  ways I feel this is the best book yet of the series.  Highly recommended if  you can work past the densely worded use of narrative.	2000-07-28
US	52832478	R111USULEIFDFL	0061054658	818740340	Ships of Merior (Wars of Light & Shadow, Vol. 2)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Epic Continues It's Rich, Densely Compressed Prose	This is the first mass-market version of a couplet, the &quot;Ships of Merior&quot; and the sequel &quot;Warhost of Vastmark&quot; originally published as a single hardbound volume, too large a work to publish singly  in mass-market format, and comprising the second of &quot;The Wars of Light  and Shadow&quot; projected pentad.  The author continues her rich and  multi-faceted story, building upon the struggle between two cursed brothers  who represent the salvation of the world into which they have found  themselves unwillingly thrown.  While a previous reviewer has in truth  suggested a difficulty choosing between the combative and curse-bound  differences that drive a rift between the two main protagonists, there is  little doubt, despite a division of the tale between the two brothers'  adventures and conflicts, that in terms of his presence and sympathetic  treatment, Arithon s'Ffalenn dominates the narrative, a judgment reflected  by his singular portrayal on all the author's successive covers (She is, by  the way, the artist) following the first book.<br />Wurt's style of writing is  richly detailed, worded and compressed, having a reach of language that is  impressive and alliteratively stretched, though at times she strays towards  over-writing passages, confounding clarity in an effort to enliven speech  where a simple sentence would have sufficed.  Further, the first couple  hundred pages of this work read suspiciously of fill, as if the author  encountered difficulty wrapping up some of the dangling elements left over  from the first book and was unable to entirely weave them back coherently  into the thread of her primary plot, despite their loose construction upon  events to follow.  Nonetheless, episodes and characters such as the  s'Brydion brothers, regardless of a swashbuckling element that would have  done Errol Flynn proud, are delightful despite their over-wrought staging,  and Dakar, regardless of his tiresome complaints, infuses elements of  buffoonish humor that often succeed.  And, after the initial uneven start,  the book soon narrows its focus into a stirring and climactic chain of  events.<br />The treatment of Arithon and Elairas' relationship is  particularly poignant and deft, and the author has succeeded in creating a  cast of characters both diverse and with depth.  Additional strengths can  be found in the multi-staged complexity of her tale, the depth of her  imaginative magical creations, and the richness, when not over-worked, the  author lavishes upon her descriptive detail.  This is a work deserving of  more praise than censure, and has continued to carry my interest.  Further,  except for instances when the author gets carried away, the scope of  descriptive language is both vivid and endlessly varied, with abundant  sentencing sure to cause the admiration and envy of many  wordsmiths.<br />Finally, on a side note, I must take the author to task for  her comments in her introductory notes regarding her intention not &quot;to  produce an unending parade of sequels.&quot;  The target of this barb is  obvious, and the implied criticism seems petty and unworthy of the author's  many talents.	2000-07-24
US	52832478	RBZLG840CHITX	0801486076	667068224	Western Warfare in the Age of the Crusades, 10001300	Books	5	53	53	N	N	Invaluable Insight Into Early Medieval Warfare	John France, as a military historian, may not have the recognition or popularity of an author such as John Keegan, but for the period of which he writes his work is no less valuable and perhaps more historically exact.   This is a historical text, and those readers who have been attracted to the  period by more popularizing authors such as Runciman may find this work, if  more accurate, containing greater detail than sought.  Nonetheless, this  book is written with clarity and concision, and in this respect is an  improvement over France's earlier and equally significant work  &quot;Victory in the East.&quot;  <br />Revealing the largely proprietorial  interests that motivated the warfare of this period, as well as the limited  scope and ad hoc nature of its engagement, France does much to dismiss the  formerly held image of early medieval warfare being epitomized by the  massed charge of armored knights with lances couched.  Not that such  tactics did not occur, but more that warfare of the period was much more  determined by circumstances that often precluded this practice's  effectiveness, as well as the fact that much of the warfare of this period  was predicated upon raiding and skirmishing in which military experience  was based upon small conflicts and individual combat, where full-scale  battle was more often than not eschewed in favor of limited engagements.   And the social elements that influenced the makeup of a levy contributed to  a decentralization of both leadership and constituency that often insured  that when engaged, battle was hardly the set piece a tactician might  envision.  With the exception of household knights, most armies were  composed of troops with varying degrees of training and experience, the  former's loyalty tied to their individual lords, and the latter's  reliability far from certain.  With leadership based upon individual and  often independent nobles of varying talent and experience whose value and  ability to lead were oftenpredicated upon notions of personal valor, the  armies of this period were difficult to control and form, and their  expected performance on the battlefield at best uncertain.  Battle, when  engaged, came about as often as not through accident, and could easily  devolve into isolated islands of combat.  Tight formation and precision of  maneuvers were to wait until the more professional and standing armies of  the 14th century, and it was not until this period that the massed charge  of cavalry was to become standard.  While at times this tactic was used  effectively and with success---most notably in the East---during this  period in Europe its use was often incidental and the results  unpredictable.  The use of siege and raiding were more often the  norm.<br />This is an excellent book that offers far more than the comments  above indicate.  It examines not only the social, economic, political, and  religious elements that contributed and informed the warfare of the period,  but the armaments and changes in military practice---slight in comparison  to other periods they may be---that defined warfare in the early Middle  Ages. This book should be a must for any serious reader of the period.	2000-07-17
US	52832478	RF7D9XLOQ0KU8	0451454162	203213606	Curse of the Mistwraith (Wars of Light and Shadow)	Books	4	19	21	N	N	Complex And At Times Dense Fantasy	I had held off reading Janny Wurts in part because of her past association with Raymond Feist: I assumed this would be more lightweight and, if at times engaging, conventional fare similar to that author's writing  (Apologies in advance to Feist fans; his books, though found simple, can be  fun).  However, Wurt's efforts here are far more ambitious---some might say  overly so.  After a rather awkward, sketchily limned and shifting start in  the first fifty pages---additionally marred by the shadows of Mearth that  bear too close a resemblance to Jordan's Shadar Logoth to be entirely  comfortable---upon arrival in Athera the story begins to quickly settle in  to an expansive and largely inventive plot.  While many traditional  conventions abound, Wurts has broadly recontextualized many, while creating  a tale as tangled in subplots as say Jordan's, but that forges ahead at a  far more brisk pace.<br />Densely descriptive and extravagantly detailed, the  writing at times wearies, as would a constant diet of richly seasoned food,  yet never entirely disengages interest.  Rarely will one find anything said  simply or directly.  As another reviewer implies, this may lead some to  conclude that the style of writing at times verges on being over-written,  and I myself would have welcomed a more judicious use of language.   Nonetheless, one is forced to admire the breadth of the author's use of  words, as well as the energy behind its application, a descriptive rhythm  that punctuates the entire narrative and is nothing if not varied and  elaborately realized.  Whether or not it becomes too much I'll leave for  the individual reader to decide; one person's stylistic extravagance may  become another's aesthetic valuable.<br />This is a book brimming with energy  and a desire to tell a much multi-faceted tale.  There is enough lore and  magic here to fill several volumes of some other authors' works.  While  without further expansion this compression might prove a fault, I suspect  in the volumes to follow that the author will elaborate upon the many  themes and plot threads she has initially sown, and look forward to their  maturation.  Since I've already gone out and purchased the next  installment, that should say it all.	2000-07-15
US	52832478	RNEJHNMEG8YQU	1894063007	374275778	The Black Chalice	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Beautifully Told Tale of Betrayal, Love &amp; Self-Deception	From time to time fantasy produces a book that is special, thatstands apart from other work, both in terms of its writing and itsstory: The Black Chalice is such a book. Lyrically told, with historical elements woven from medieval Germany and the First Crusade, at times this book echoes the works of Guy Gavriel Kay, while yet existing well apart and above even his best. And---I shudder to say this---not since Tolkien have I seen tales of folklore told with such power and grace. Magic abounds here, but it does not take the shape of fireballs or enchanted swords, but instead actually lives, as vibrant as the forests in which it dwells, and as inseparable from the world as the trees, the air, the birds, or the people that populate it. When the author can make a world actually breathe and assemble before one's eyes without clouting the reader over the head to obtain their recognition, I consider it no mean accomplishment.<br /> This is a tale of betrayal, love both commonplace and forbidden, redemption and damnation, belief and self-deception. Marie Jakober captures the brutality of the early 12th century, as well as the horror and abjection of being born a woman, while at the same time celebrating the joys of both love and existence, the strength as well as deception awaiting faith and self-affirmation, and the power that lies hidden within love's union, be it human or through earthly existence. And throughout the narrative Jakober's characters weigh and reinvestigate the varied meanings and interpretations of their actions that come to define their lives.<br /> This work is unlike any fantasy I have read before, both for its lyricism as well as the quality of its existential ruminations. While others have attempted to place their fantasies within a historical context, none that I have read have done so as well. Again, echoes exist with the works of Kay, Bradley's &quot;Mists of Avalon,&quot; and the folklore of Tolkien, yet this remains essentially an original work. Though many others have attempted to counterpoise Christianity with paganism---Kurtz, Welch and recently Marillier among others---none have done so as successfully, with both systems of belief coexisting credibly if not harmoniously. While this is not a work to read for the continuous clashing of arms and warfare, the struggle is nonetheless hardly lessened by the book's moments of reflection, nor the evolving inner conflict of its characters. What more can I say: it's a marvelous book!<br /> It's unfortunate that at the moment this work is only available through a tiny publisher in Calgary: I fear this may result in many not ever having a chance to read it. I myself would have been unaware of it were it not for the sfsite and their recommendation. While they have not always been reliable, they have nonetheless steered me to two of the most important fantasies I have read during the past two years: this work and &quot;Gardens of the Moon&quot; by Steven Erikson. You may have to expend some effort to obtain this book---I see the wait here is several weeks---and I question whether we'll ever see it in paperback. Nonetheless, it is well worth the expenditure of time and money, and deserving of every accolade. I can't recommend this work more highly. Spread the word...	2000-07-11
US	52832478	RG9EICJWTE3ZA	0006482007	792268798	The Lost Runes (The Runespell Trilogy #2)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Settles Somewhat Though Problems From First Book Persist	As with a previous reviewer, I continued this series from &quot;Runes of War&quot; hoping this series would find its            focus. To a degree it has: description continues to be the series' strength, and the author  has in large part            abandoned the repetitive and unevolving  self-recrimination I found so wearisome with the characters of             Spar and Branwolf in the first book. However, this remains a travel-bound  text, the ongoing and apparently            never ending quest providing an  excuse for a fair number of incidental and--in terms of plot  focus--irrelevant            adventures that are left to sustain the  reader's interest. After a time this plot device becomes very wearisome and             predictable.<br />           The main characters, while evolving  somewhat, still seem essentially rooted to the characters established in             the first book, with often the secondary actors, such as May or  Cybillia, providing the greater character            development and  interest. The primary villains remain attenuated, serving only provide the  occasional            threat, and again we find secondary figures such as  Gatto providing much of the conflict within the            narrative, while  more important characters, such as Gwion, remain mostly as phantoms. And,  after            dragging himself around through much of the book to little  purpose, the dragon simply swims away into the            sunset.<br />            There is an uncomfortable and seemingly random blend of various  borrowings from myth and religion,            creating a hodgepodge  cosmology incorporating Nordic, Celtic, Christian, and Greco-Roman  traditions            that at times merge uneasily, such as with the  Satanic rites revolving around the worship of Lokki. All of            this  seems baldly uninventive and derivitive, lacking the imaginitive strength  of authors such as Hobb,            Jordan or Tolkien, who, though they  have borrowed, recontextualized their mythic sources enough to in             large part recreate their own cosmologies, or missing the narrative purity  of others such as Kerr, Marillier            or Bradley, who have chosen to  create their stories around the legends of a particular mythology. This             blithe tossing about of mythic references seems contrived and  carelessly implemented.<br />           Finally, while descriptively rich,  this alone is not enough to successfully carry the story. This tale needs             greater and tighter plot development, as well as depth of  characterization. Also, the author has a bad habit            of inaptly  using language: The repeated and inappropriate use of individual  words--insipid hair and turgid            air of apprehension but two of  many instances, these words in particular problematic in their repeated             usage--create unnecessary questions as to the author's understanding  of language, unfortunate when            considering the strength of her  description narrative elsewhere, though, in fairness, her editor should  have            caught this.<br />           While I would not dismiss this  trilogy and, if allowed, would give it a half star more, the first two  books            contain persisting problems that do much to undermine and  ennervate its narrative and emotional power.            Tighter plot focus  and greater character development will be needed in future for this  author's work to rise            above the ordinary.	2000-07-09
US	52832478	R1Q55Q7DLOVG2	0006482015	834147107	The Runes of Sorcery (The Runespell Trilogy #3)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Despite Problems Series Ends On Strong Note	In my reviews of &quot;The Runes of War&quot; and &quot;The Lost Runes&quot; I have elaborated upon the various problems I have encountered with this series: too great a dependence upon the journey of the quest to  provide incidental adventures, a lack of evolving and often overstated  character development, an unimaginative and uncomfortable amalgam of mythic  influences from diverse sources loosely thrown together, as well as a  largely rambling plot focus defined and limited by the quest's never-ending  travels.  These problems persist into the third and final book, with the  inclusion of tommyknockers to round out the already over-burdened  cosmology, echoes of Arthurian chivalry and tournaments, and a continued  tendency to at times depend upon plot contrivances to resolve a conflict or  allow movement to another episode.<br />Nonetheless, the last hundred pages  conclude rather dramatically, especially the episodes that occur on the  Frosted Peaks, and do much to reestablish my faith that in future this  author might well have much to offer.  If able to apply the not  inconsiderable level of descriptive strengths and dramatic action to a  tighter plot development and greater depth of characterization, I have  little doubt that this author could readily raise her storytelling efforts  above the ordinary.     Unfortunately, though catching glimpses of  brilliance, overall the &quot;Runespell Trilogy&quot; rarely rises above  the average, and then more often than not only with the richness of her  descriptive imagery, which, without complexity and a more tightly focused  plot, is not enough in itself to sustain the reader's complete interest.   And, the final explication of the Runes' riddles seemed overwrought,  riddled themselves and hardly open to the singular interpretation arrived  upon.   <br />Many were the times when reading this trilogy that I found  myself exasperated and annoyed by its repetitive ploys and rehashed  characterizations, as well as a slapdash approach to myth-making that  seemed entirely out of place when compared to the loving attention the  author directed towards the details of description.  In the latter respect  the only place she wavered was in providing a map that did not always  geographically conform to the areas described, as with the locations of the  Oldhart Forest and Bleham in book two, or, based upon the map, the  impossibility of not previously passing through the Frosted Peaks on the  journey from Laverna to Sequicornum in book three.  A quibbling complaint,  perhaps, but if you're going to take the trouble to provide a map,  especially within the context 1,700 pages of relentless travels, one should  probably make the effort to insure that the storyline does not stray in  reference to its supporting document.<br />I see that Ms. Welch has written a  new trilogy that is currently available in Britain.  While I will not rush  out to obtain it, I will nonetheless bear it in mind for a time when my  reading has fallen upon leaner times.  Who knows: with the writing talent  the author has occasionally revealed in this series, her next trilogy might  prove an unexpected gem?	2000-07-02
US	52832478	R36VLKZ7OM1287	000648025X	236326712	The Runes of War (The Runespell Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Rambling Tale Burdened by Travel &amp; Labored Characterizations	This is a first effort, and in many ways reads like one.  The author displays strong descriptive skills--the book's greatest strength---but in essence the story is centered around a rather rambling journey that in  large part serves as a prop for a series of mostly miscellaneous adventures  loosely strung together under the pretext of a quest.  While the convention  of the quest has become almost de rigueur in high fantasy, its continued  use has become worn and tired, especially when its serves, as here, as the  over-riding plot device necessary to propel the story along.  After a time,  the reader becomes as tired and travel-worn as the narrative's  participants.  In this book, the plot focus becomes as wandering as its  protagonists, and, as noted by an earlier reviewer, just as the narrative  appears to attain a focus outside the plodding footsteps of its characters,  the action instead turns into a springboard for further journies to follow  in the second book.<br />Another problem present is the repetitive  characterizations of the main protagonists.  Again and again the reader is  forced into examinations of both Spar's and Branwolf's guilt, as well as  regaled with episodes of Hal's naive arroganace, without these episodes  once advancing the development of the characters.  The former remain frozen  in their original self-recrimination and doubt, whereas Hal repeatedly  mouths the same assertive platitudes.  Further, the author tends to use the  same descriptive and inelegant identification over and over again: Hal  identified as the raven-haired youth, Branwolf as the raven-haired  nobleman, and Spar as the auburn-haired youth.  After the twentieth or  thirtieth time each description has been used, one wants to cry:  &quot;Enough; is this their only attribute, besides guilt and  arrogance! &quot;  And, the author's invention of language, compared to  authors such as Tolkien, Kerr, or Jordan, seem inelegant and a hodgepodge  drawn from various sources, Belbidian in particular  unfortunate.<br />Contrivances abound here, such as Spar's repeated clumsiness  that loosens a rock or causes him to trip over a guywire, alerting the  enemy to their presence and setting off a chase, or the abrupt appearance  of secondary characters that leaven the journey with momentary adventure,  only just as suddenly to be discarded once they have served their purpose.   And, the story lacks the rich and tight plotting of better practitioners of  the genre (Comparisons to Tolkien and Jordan are preposterous). <br />Despite  the criticism, and rather average and conventional storyline, there is  evidence of promise here, both in the strength of descriptive passages, as  well as certain imaginitive elements.  There was enough spark here to lead  me to continue with the second book, though, having already read fifty  pages in, it appears, as mentioned by an earlier reviewer, that the second  book contains many of the flaws of the first.  But this is a first book,  deserving of some consideration, and if the author can free herself of the  confines of simplistic plot conventions, as well as learn how to develope  her characters, the essential writing skills seem present here to allow the  author to rise above the level of this work.	2000-06-23
US	52832478	R31LQE1ALW4WML	003022909X	100923519	Essentials of Physical Geography	Books	2	6	9	N	N	Only If You Must	This is a textbook to read only if required for a class, and even then you might suggest your instructor consider using another text.  Very generalized, rather dry, and often unclear work, at times verging towards  being obscure and confusing, which I assume is due to either poor technical  editing, or a general inability on the part of the authors to express their  knowledge in print.  The chapter explaining the earth's revolution and  rotation in particular seems unnecessarily vague and unhelpful, and the  book in general is filled with facts with little supporting explication as  to the whys and wherefores of the information being provided.  <br />If you  are looking for a book that will help you to understand the principles of  physical geography, this is not it.  Must wonder whether my professor has  recently even read this current edition. . .	2000-06-16
US	52832478	R2BQ5AC96EYRAF	0061020699	863190678	Equal Rites	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Humorous Poke At Sexual Politics, Academia &amp; Wizardry	As its title implies, Pratchett takes a good humored and often critical look at sexual politics in his third Discworld novel, while at the same time wryly turning his pen to probe the often static and tradition-bound  world of academics through a parody of wizardry and sorcerous notions in  general.  While not as tightly plotted as many of his later works, this is  a far more satisfying and humorous work than some of his more recent  novels, such as &quot;Jingo&quot; or &quot;Hogfather.&quot;  Full of one  liners and skewed and often insightful views of fantasy as well as, by  reflection, contemporary social institutions, this is a delightful read  that should leave you laughing for more.	2000-06-12
US	52832478	RBR707V78K96D	0446673668	575823243	The Wild Swans	Books	3	7	17	N	N	Typecast, Contrived and Lacking Subtlety	I started this book with high expectations: after all, the sfsite had heralded this as one of the best works of the past year.  Guess in future I'll have to approach their recommendations with greater caution.  After a  hundred pages, I put the book down--something I rarely do--having decided  it left little to offer.<br />This is two stories that parallel each other as  one.  Unfortunately, they are rather rigidly separated in alternating  episodes, each chapter stiffly moving back and forth between one story and  the other.  While someone applauded the difficulty of this maneuver, it  seems a rather conventional plot device over the past few years, a number  of authors I can think of--Robin Hobb, George R.R. Martin, Robert Jordan,  Sara Douglass, Steven Erikson, to name a few--interweaving multiple plots  with diverse perspective in order to enrich their narratives.  Granted, the  tales here are separated by almost three hundred years, and on the surface  appear to be dealing with very different themes and characters, so I  suppose a claim could be made as to the difficulty in successfully  intermingling two distinctive narratives, if the manner of organizing them  were not so artificial and unyeilding.  Bouncing unerringly back and forth  between stories seems hardly inventive, and the author's unfailing  adherence to the practice becomes predictable and tiresome.<br />The two  individual main characters of these tales--Elias, a young gay man striving  to come to terms with his identity in the New York City of the early 80's,  and Eliza Grey, a fosterling returning to nobility in 1689 England--seem  familiar and typecast.  The former is facing all the predictable hurdles  already suggested in Hollywood and other fictional portrayals of young gay  men abandoned to the street, his sensitivity established between  alternating tears, insecurity and blushing, who, upon announcing his sexual  identity (a school mate snitches), is thrown out of the house by his  &quot;East Coast Brahmin&quot; father, a deacon of the church, who with  typical originality casts him out with the curse &quot;You can go live with  all the rest of the faggots.  Live in a cesspool...And when you die, you  can burn in hell forever.&quot;  He is befriended by an older, wiser,   senstive--and need I say also gay--man who sings beautifully on his guitar  before the subway, and to whom Elias immediately forms an infatuation.   Seem familiar?  Know where it's going?<br />Eliza, on the otherhand, is  straight out of any number of 19th century English novels, be it Austen or  Dickens.  Given into fosterage by her father, a Count, shortly after the  death of her mother, she is raised by a kind farmwife, only to be abruptly  returned to her family's estate as she approaches the age of marriage.  Her  mother has been replaced by an evil and sorcerous step-mother, who conforms  to that much maligned parental stereotype with all the casting of the  Brothers Grimm or Walt Disney in &quot;Snow White.  There appears little  deviation from a well-worn path.<br />Finally, it is not long before various  conventional plot contrivances begin to appear.  Upon Eliza's arrival at  her family estate, her evil step-mother immediately takes her down to where  she keeps her herbs and potions and things.  Coincidentally, unaware of her  step-mother's intentions, Eliza picks up a sprig of juniper, which it is  announced, is a protection against evil and spells.  Unsurprisingly, she's  gonna need it, as her step-mother mixes a batch of herbs that she throws  into Eliza's face, causing Eliza to fall into a dull and submissive stupor.   Not to worry, though, the sprig of juniper saves the day.<br />While I  realize that I am going against the grain of what seems to be common  opinion on these pages, I cannot help but find the first hundred pages of  this book too obvious, simplistically plotted and predictable.  Having read  the first chapters, why read further? This work is loosely based upon the  old Celtic legend of the swans (despite attribution elsewhere  to Hans  Christian Anderson, evidence of cultural borrowing), more closely and  successfully rendered recently by Juliet Marillier.  If you are interested  in reading a retelling of this tale I would direct you there:  &quot;Daughter of the Forest&quot; is far more satisfying tale.   Unfortunately, despite evidence that Ms. Kerr knows how to compose a  sentence and a paragraph, the plot line of her story far too stale to  generate much interest.  While the concept has potential, and the style of  writing cleanly rendered, based upon the execution I may have been overly  generous in granting it three stars.	2000-06-10
US	52832478	R2GJQRWGSKA0GM	0441006159	45282071	The Book of Jhereg	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Fans of Leiber and Pratchett Take Note	A collection of three of the first four books Brust wrote (Taltos is unfortunately missing), this a delightful, entertaining trilogy of stories inventive both in terms of its world and its use of magic.  Written with a  wry sense of humor that should appeal to fans of Fritz Leiber and Terry  Pratchett, this is the ongoing saga of Vlad Taltos, an assassin working the  often tawdry streets of Andrilankha, the city and the character in many  ways resembling both the Grey Mouser and Lankhmar of Leiber's realm, but  with enough distinctive differences to distinguish it from the former  author's work.  Though Brust at times belabors certain episodes and issues,  he nonetheless presents a world and cast of characters that rarely tires,  straying beyond the usual sword and sorcery fare.  Highly recommended.	2000-06-07
US	52832478	R2ZSBSGB71VSVE	0441003311	525403590	The True Game	Books	3	4	11	N	N	Long On Concepts Loosely Told	It is unfortunate that the publisher has allowed this collection to go out of stock.  Worthy of reading if only as representing the author's first trilogy of works, it also introduces the reader to Tepper's interweaving of  social and philosophical ideas into genre narrative that has so typified  and exemplified her later and more serious work.<br />Tepper is largely a  writer of science fiction, known for conflating her ventures into fantasy  through its elements.  They are in evidence here, especially present in  &quot;Necromancer Nine,&quot; with its references to a world seeded by an  alien race who have lost touch with their purpose in colonizing the planet,  as well as the technology supporting their society.  As usual, Tepper  attempts to use fantasy to explore larger issues, here including the  relationships between science, religion, education, and society.   Unfortunately, as is often the case with science fiction writers, the  storyline gets subsumed in the expression of the ideas, greatly diminishing  the strength of the narrative.  The plot is often loosely wrapped and  largely dependent upon the underpinning of the concepts explored, with a  concomittant lack of  narrative description and character development.   Intriguing ideas and conceptual exploration do not by themselves provide  good story telling, and it is here that this trilogy appears its weakest.   Many of the characters remain one dimensional, and at times Tepper appears  to lose track of her earlier plot development in order to tailor the story  development to what she wishes to express conceptually.  Thus plot  contrivances at times emerge, and the resolution of &quot;King's Blood  Four&quot; and &quot;Wizard's Eleven&quot; seems rushed and far from  satisfying in terms of storytelling, and the evolution of Huld's character  is forced to fit Tepper's evolving needs in the latter two works of the  trilogy, largely at odds with his earlier characterization in the first  book.<br />I suppose a complaint that can be leveled at many writers of  fantasy is the lack of substance often present in the telling of a good  tale, their avoidance often of addressing larger social or political or  philosophical issues in preference for spinning a good yarn.  However, true  as this often may be, I would offer that many writers of science fiction  loose sight, in their pursuit of conceptual content, of the elements  necessary to construct a good, tightly woven storyline, the ideas contained  in their writing often having to carry or substitute for a lack of solid  narrative development.  In this work, for all its intellectual merits,  Tepper fails to provide a story that fully engages or is developed beyond  stimulating an inquiry of the intellect.  While offering a large degree of  mental richness, visually and emotionally it remains largely atrophied and  only minimally developed.  It would be wonderful to find Tepper's  conceptual skills merged with the narrative and storytelling abilities of  an author such as Jordan or Hobb.  So far these skills---good storytelling  versus conceptual investigation---appear to remain mutually exclusive.   However, we can always hope for the future...	2000-05-29
US	52832478	R1W2OMSD8FU50M	0380788144	846808479	The Death of the Necromancer	Books	3	22	32	N	N	Too Clever By Half	As much as I respect the skill of writing displayed here, and found elements of the setting original, often inventive and always descriptively well rendered, the story nonetheless never completely engaged me.  In part  this was due to the adroit cleverness of the evolving plotline and its  characters.  While this at surface might seem a strength, and certainly  contributed to a smooth and fast paced narrative, somehow over time the  story's resolution, despite the character's expected and temporary  setbacks, became predictable, in the same way so many scripts become when  watching an action film.<br />Perhaps I have read too many mysteries, which in  part this is.  The evolution of the storyline seemed far too familiar, and  this was compounded by the use of characters and setting readily recognized  by anyone who has read Caleb Carr or Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.  In terms of  the latter, one can essentially read Nicholas Valiarde --aka the arch  criminal Donatien--as Moriarty, and  Inspector Ronsarde as Holmes, with his  sidekick Watson, here played by Dr. Halle.  Fog drifts through the littered  and dark cobbled streets of Vienne--or should I say London--and gaslight  flickers.  While elements of sorcery and the undead create a tone absent in  the earlier mysteries, the borrowings are nonetheless at times far too  obvious.<br />Further, everyone populating this tale are as clever as the  plot.  Obstacles are placed in their way, but there is never any doubt that  the heroes will outsmart their opponents.  This tends to keep the  characters at the surface of events, making them more set pieces in the  plot game being carried out, than characters with actual depth and  dimension.  As with many mysteries, the narrative evolves into a contest of  wits developed through action in which one event leads inexorably to  another, each a piece of the puzzle that will become clear to all at the  conclusion, which here seems a trifle glib.<br />Nonetheless, this was an  entertaining if not particularly memorable book, and, based upon the  descriptive skill of the writing, as well as the ability to weave a tightly  crafted, if somewhat derivitive, plotline, is probably deserving of a  higher rating than I was able to give it above.  I will look for the  author's other books, as her writing skills cannot be faulted, and there  was, despite the borrowings mentioned above, evidence of creativity and  originality in her incorporation of magic and invention of the 'Unseelie  Court.' Perhaps in the absence of the usual mystery storyline, her tales  may escape the familiar conventions that in part hobble her narrative here.	2000-05-23
US	52832478	R14KMB53VM84KO	0553575643	714413063	Mad Ship (The Liveship Traders, Book 2)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Possibly the Best Ongoing Fantasy Trilogy	This may well be the best ongoing work of fantasy being written. A strong statement, perhaps, but one I believe is easily                               supported by the literate quality of writing, the depth of both the  characterization and world she has created, the complexity                                of her plot development, and the originality of both her world  and the elements of fantasy and and the magic underpinning it.                                In terms of the latter, it is refreshingly difficult to  perceive any borrowings stemming from her predecessors, and her                                treatment of dragons is so far the only example I have  discovered that is not either childish, overly drawn from earlier and                                worn stereotypes, or lacking credible treatment. In  terms of the former, Robin Hobb is one of only a few fantasy authors                                who can truly write well. This is a series that  should grace the shelves of any serious reader of fantasy, and rises far  above                               the simple, run of the mill fare we so  often encounter, with their characters and magical elements rarely  ascending above the                               conventional or the  borrowed.<br />                             I noted that an earlier reviewer  found this installment weaker than first; however I feel this to be the  strongest volume of the series (I have obtained and read the concluding  novel). In terms of the                               interweaving of the  multiple plot lines, &quot;Mad Ship&quot; closes much that was left  unresolved in &quot;Ship of Magic,&quot; and propels the                                plot along at a much brisker pace, successfully setting up  anticipation for the final resolution to come in &quot;Ship of  Destiny.&quot; It                               seems to me more tightly  written, both in terms of character development and story line.  Some  appearto have found the plot overly complex, yet I would counter that the  complexity and multiple plotlines are one of the books strengths, and that  the absence of simplistic and largely linear storylines, as can be                                found in works by more conventional authors such as  Eddings, Brooks, MacCaffrey, or Feist, creates a narrative that offers                                the reader far greater dimension and interest than  a work that plods along the path of a single character. This, I suppose, is  a                               matter of taste, but for me the more  character perspectives the better, as long as they are individually and  fully developed,                               which certainly is the case  here. This offers the reader a narrative of greater depth and richness.  Hobb's storyline here, with its multi-dimensional threads of plot, never  strays, evolving over time into a cohesive yet multifaceted entity as  wonderfully rendered as 'Maulkin's Tangle.'<br />                              I was somewhat baffled by an earlier criticism regarding a lack of  characterization: One of Hobb's undeniable strengths are her  characterizations; few other authors are so thorough in creating unique and                                individual characters whose responses are  neither black nor white.  And it is hard to find more credible female  characters.    Finally, in response to another reader, while I am one who  continues to read Jordan with enjoyment, I believe the Hobb is shown here  to be the                               better writer, at least in terms of  the maturity of her characterizations and the originality of her world, and  certainly his equal                               when it comes to  descriptive narrative. While Hobb may not offer the epic scope of Jordan's  vision, it waits to be seen                               whether the  greater strength lies with her more tightly envisioned approach to  storytelling.	2000-05-23
US	52832478	R1LHSYYLOG1CO2	0521444969	335209407	The Evolution and Extinction of the Dinosaurs	Books	2	19	43	N	N	Dry and Overly Devoted to Cladistic Studies	This was the required text for a class I recently attended.  Despite earlier reviewers' accolades, I found this work exceedingly dry, with pages upon pages devoted to morphology, philogeny and cladograms, in some cases  the bulk of individual chapters.  While all of this is obviously important,  little is present descriptively in terms of what individual species may  have looked like, beyond their bone structure, the environments they  inhabited, or the natural history of their lives.  Instead, pages upon  pages are devoted to chronologies of when individual species were first  discovered and where, as well as cladograms diagramming where  evolutionarily each species and family exists.  The former, when occupying  much of the book, is tiresome, and the latter, while helpful, without  further descriptive and narrative substance exists only as a sterile  evolutionary chronology.  And, I agree, the illustrations are rather  laughable in terms of skill of rendering.<br />If this is the best that is  available, as some reviewers have asserted, then the state of  paleontological writing is very poor indeed.  Someone who can actually  write, beyond the technical, needs desperately to be found who can infuse  some descriptive life into these reading.  While the actual subjects may  long be dead, there is no reason for the readings to be, as is evidenced in  the recent and largely excellent, if at times speculative, Discovery series  &quot;Walking with Dinosaurs.&quot;  And teachers need to be aware that  while they may salivate over the technical details of their particular  subject or area of interest, the average student will hardly find such dry  detail by itself particularly captivating.	2000-05-14
US	52832478	R1L689C6KBHWHY	031284879X	559330677	Daughter of the Forest (The Sevenwaters Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	3	33	51	N	N	Engaging Tale That On Occasion Stumbles	At times I wish it were possible to award partial stars: this book is certainly deserving of more than three, yet I am hesitant to award it four, compared to other books I have granted that accolade.  That said, this is a  very engaging tale, and I look forward to the next book in the series.  The  author handles the lyrical interweaving of Celtic legend into her story  very well, and her descriptive depictions of the natural world and the  magic that exists just beyond our knowledge draw the reader into the world  she has created, reflecting not only the author's obvious knowledge of her  subject, but an admirable rendering as well.  <br />In a broad way I agree  with much that has been said by many of the previous reviewers, some of  whom have given much of the story away.  The comparison with &quot;Mists of  Avalon&quot; is also apt, as the narrative contains much of the tone found  in this earlier work, and I would therefore assume find a ready audience  with those who enjoyed the former book.  However, I cannot concur with the  degree of praise so far extended by previous commentators.  I find the  author repeatedly returning to a stylistic device of presaging the action  of her story through the use of narratorial asides, which, though I  understand the reasoning behind their inclusion, and the momentary suspense  this adds through foreshadowing, over time becomes repetitive and tiring.   Further, the author at times displays the bad habit of telling rather than  showing the reader what is taking place, or the significance of an action  or event, thus diminishing its impact.  And, on occasion, things take  place---a case in point is a purported pledge to a dying man---that seems  contrived or unsubtantiated in the way in which the reader is asked to  believe in their crediblilty.<br />Nonetheless, this is good first effort by a  new author, which, should she abandon some of the more obvious artifices of  her writing, can only continue to build upon the not insubstantial  strengths of this initial work.	2000-05-13
US	52832478	R3M2BDF0WT3VEF	0521589878	979171657	Victory in the East: A Military History of the First Crusade	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Excellent and Valuable Account from Military Perspective	While this is certainly one of the best and most accurate works written about the First Crusade, I am unsure I can go so far as to agree with the previous reviewer that it is the best.  It is certainly thorough: the  author has visited many of the sites and, where possible, reconstructed the  battles in situ. While dedicated to a military perspective,  he  incorporates many elements, such as  the religious and political  antecedents, that provide the background necessary to any meaningful  understanding of the crusaders' march into Syria and Palestine.  As the  author has made the effort to include many of the primary sources that to  date remain untranslated, the Crusade chroniclers' accounts are more fully  represented, allowing both the author and the reader to arrive at  conclusions based upon a greater comparison and analysis of contemporary  sources than is present in many other texts.  Further, this is the first  work I have come across that points out the significance of contribution  made by Byzantine naval support, at least up to and including the seige of  Antioch.<br />As a military history this work is outstanding, marred only by  the author's at times inelegant and unclear sentence structure.  For some,  this work may be long on military tactics.  Also, the casual reader should  be aware that this is primarily a military history, and does not consider  comprehensively all the religious and political events that led up and in  part inform the First Crusade.	2000-05-08
US	52832478	R2ZNIX2TSGZ00Y	0812216563	70728975	The First Crusade: "The Chronicle of Fulcher of Chartres" and Other Source Materials (The Middle Ages Series)	Books	3	10	21	N	N	Peter's Collection of Primary Sources Only Partial	While this collection of chronicles of the First Crusade from primary sources is certainly valuable, it is limited by the fact that the editor has chosen to include only those sources that have  already been  translated, thus leaving many other valuable and informative accounts  absent.  As many of the chroniclers' accounts possess bias and errors, or  were written secondhand or after events had taken place, only a reading of  all the primary sources offers the reader the chance to sift and attempt to  reassemble events through comparison.  In this regard John France's book  &quot;Victory in the East,&quot; while a secondary retelling from a largely  military perspective, perhaps offers greater value.<br />Certainly a must for  any scholar of the period, but likely to tire the ordinary or casual  reader.   This printing is further marred by a flimsy binding that falls  apart before one can complete the reading.	2000-05-08
US	52832478	R2W6O2LJIN8B0	0195019059	567008152	King Arthur and His Knights: Selected Tales	Books	3	12	15	N	N	As Only A Selection Of Stories, Limited In Its Appeal	Eugene Vinaver is the editor of the standard version of Mallory, &quot;Works.&quot;  Here he has selected a few of the author's tales, largely the stories leading up to Arthur's death.  However, this remains essentially a skimming of Mallory's work, somewhat akin to a condensed  version, collected I suspect for academics wishing to teach the Arthurian  romances without having to delve too long or deeply into Mallory's entire  narrative. As such it provides a glimpse into Mallory's version of the  legend, yet remains in part fragmentary---especially the story of Pellas  and Ettard---thus limiting its impact. <br />Also, Vinaver continues his  practice from &quot;Works&quot; of footnoting certain words he has chosen  not to translate. I found this annoying as I could perceive no apparent  reason in his choice not to complete the translation, and though in most  cases I was able to interpret their meaning within their context, their  footnoting continued to drag my eye to the translation provided at the  bottom of the page, interrupting the flow of the narrative. If a credible  reason for this practice can be provided, I would love to hear it.<br />Those  who wish to read only what the editor has chosen to highlight in Mallory's  tale may be satisfied.  For all others, I would direct you to Vinaver's  complete edition, &quot;Works.&quot;	2000-05-03
US	52832478	RSFBYS1UKI8BR	0061051578	847958713	The Fifth Elephant: A Novel of Discworld	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Really Enjoyed My Introduction to Discworld	This is the first book I've read by Terry Pratchett--I know...Where have I been!--and I must say it was thoroughly enjoyable, and I certainly will not wait as long to pick up the next one. Though it sounds like most of you are quite familiar with his work, I found the blend of humor, mystery, fantasy  and parody quite refreshing after all the traditional sword and sorcery  fare, and look forward now to being able to go back to the beginning with  &quot;The Colour of Magic.&quot; I must say, though, that all the  &quot;stars&quot; contained herein seem evidence of the usual ratings  inflation: As much as I enjoyed this work, it seems to me to lack the depth  or breadth of a classic.	2000-04-26
US	52832478	R1NY2IHJ7GCHM6	0061059900	874356818	Sailing to Sarantium (Sarantine Mosaic, Book 1)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Uneven Compared To Tigana, Arbonne, And Lions of Al-Rassan	I would have liked to have given this work higher praise, and based solely upon the prologue and second section of the work could have.  However, part one of the narrative remains for me very uneven, in large part burdened by  a journey that appears to accomplish little, other than bringing together  several companions of the adventure and muddying the tale with religious  and magical elements that at the book's conclusion remain attenuated and  for the most part unexplained as to their relationship within the larger  context of the story.  Granted, these unresolved and only partially  substantiated elements may find resolution in the second volume, but to  date they remain incompletely integrated into the narrative, and only  tenuous and apparently dangling story threads, and in the manner they have  been introduced and followed here, I question that any further development  will entirely be successful in fully incorporating them into the later  volume.  I hope I am proven wrong.  However, for the moment this work seems  to lack the tight plotting that was a strength in Tigana, Song for Arbonne,  and The Lions of Al-Rassan, and seems in part a return to the often  extraneous and wandering plot development present in The Fionavar  Trilogy.<br />Nonetheless, in comparison to many works of fantasy currently  available, this book remains far better than most, and the prologue is  almost worth the price of admission in and of itself.  I will await the  release of the second and concluding volume--though I will wait until it's  out in paperback--in the hope that its pages will do much to repair and  restore the stumble that appears to occur in the early portion of the  story.  Despite my hesitation to fully applaud this effort, Kay remains  among the handful of authors representing the best in fantasy  fiction.<br />Finally, for those who express difficulty in Kay's historical  antecedents, I believe in part you are misinterpreting his intentions.  I  don't believe thereis any desire to hide or disguise his historical  references.  Further, I can think of no fantasy written to date that does  not contain its fair share of borrowings, including the works of Tolkein.   These arguments to a large degree seem mute, and consideration should  instead be directed to whether or not these elements have been successfully  incorporated into the narrative, and whether the storytelling itself has  captured the imagination.	2000-03-25
US	52832478	R3BVZUR9A3GNPL	0552142565	810015467	Sword in the Storm (The Rigante Series, Book 1)	Books	3	7	15	N	N	Well Written But Little To Distinguish It From Other Tales	Like two other reviewers, this was the first work by Gemmel that I have read.  While well written and exhibiting the skill of an experienced author, there was little else to this tale to separate it from any number of other heroic adventures.  The storyline is broadly based and familiar,  lacking the focus and multilayered perspective of better works, thus  causing it to fall into the category of an entertaining but far from  gripping divertissement.  While this work alone will not prevent me from  reading other works by the author--it is afterall far better written than  many--I will wait until I have exhausted richer and more original sources  of material, such as Martin, Erikson, Hobb, Kerr, Kay, or Jordan, before I  turn to Gemmel again.	2000-03-19
US	52832478	R2OZVQQQYJTJPD	0345347633	165652185	Deryni Rising (Chronicles of the Deryni, No 1)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Engaging But Lacks The Breadth And Depth Of The Best	This is the first work by Katherine Kurtz I've read, and I must say that I found it enjoyable and engaging.  Written in 1970 before the advent of &quot;doorstop&quot; fantasy, the story is inventive, well-paced, and, at  under 300 pages, by today's standards brief.  Regardless of the at times  well deserved criticism directed at the current trend in fantasy of writing  multi-volume, massive epics, this story could have been improved with a  further fleshing out.  Unlike a earlier reviewer, I found this tale had  something happening in every chapter, and would have benefited from a  slowing of the pace in order to devote more time to description and  characterization.  Nonetheless, it's well written and inventive, and I will  continue on with the series.	1999-12-14
US	52832478	R2FR69QBI9NYI3	055337950X	960091256	The Black Raven: Book Two of the Dragon Mage	Books	4	37	37	N	N	Tenth Entry For One Of The Best Ongoing Fantasy Series	Katharine Kerr's Celtic based fantasy series is among the best available, without the fanfare but equal, in my opinion, to other contemporary sword and sorcery fare such as Jordan's or Martin's ongoing series.  Not meant as  a stand-alone, this work continues the storylines of the previous &quot;Red  Wyvern,&quot; as well as the overall narrative thread begun so long ago  with &quot;Daggerspell.&quot;  Without starting at the beginning of the  series, most readers will find themselves lost here.  But for those who  have never read Kerr's work, how fortunate, for you can begin with  &quot;Daggerspell&quot; and read all ten books successively!<br />I would have  rated this book more highly--the quality of writing found in the best of  her previous books is present here--had I felt this work significantly  moved the storyline along.  However, most of the pages in &quot;The Black  Raven&quot; are devoted to the relationships existing between the main  characters, as well as life at court, and, as satisfying on one level as I  found this to be, I would have liked to have seen further resolution to  elements of the story left dangling in the previous work, as well as more  buildup for the continuance of the narrative to follow.  It was gratifying,  however, to see a return of the character of Ebany, who has been absent  from the tale for some time.<br />On a separate note, I feel I must take the  author to task for neglecting to provide a thorough character list and  chronology at the back of her books.  Her tale spans centuries, shifts back  and forth within time, and includes incarnations of characters from  different books and simultaneous storylines that creates some confusion for  the reader in the lapse between publications.  While I recognize providing  such an appendix would entail no inconsiderable effort on the part of the  author, I feel that after ten books such a listing should be felt to be  required of her for the benefit of her readers, and would prove farmore  helpful than the current glossary of terms she has deigned to provide.	1999-12-14
US	52832478	R2OYWV20PT7VJG	0061059064	694992048	Jingo (Discworld)	Books	3	1	6	N	N	Good Fun But . . .	I recently read Terry Pratchett for the first time through an advanced reader's copy of &quot;The Fifth Element.&quot;  I greatly enyoyed that book and immediately went out and purchased&quot;Jingo.&quot; While to a  large degree similar--though I felt the former to be better plotted and  more tightly written--I found the similarities here beginning to wear thin  midway through the book.  It wasn't that I was bored, or found Pratchett's  writing lacking in inventiveness, but that his use of plot devices were  already becoming familiar.  Not a good sign, if a reflection upon the other  23 Discworld titles.  I think I'll give Pratchett a rest; perhaps after a  few months the next title I read will appear fresher.	1999-12-09
US	52832478	RLU8TB2JA14AY	1565048970	220408581	4: Farewell to Lankhmar (Lankhmar Series)	Books	4	10	12	N	N	A Satisfying Conclusion To The Series	As the stories contained within this last book of the tales of Fafhrd and the Grey                                 Mouser all revolve around Rime Island, they follow a much more linear and                                  chronological order than the earlier three volumes, and are sequentially  tied to                                 the last two stories that concluded  the previous &quot;Lean Times in Lankhmar.&quot; In                                  some ways more tightly written and plotted than some of the earlier  tales, I found                                 &quot;Farewell&quot; a  satisfying conclusion to the &quot;twain's&quot; adventures, despite having                                  grown somewhat weary of Leiber's  over-worked writing style. While I agree with                                  an earlier commentator that the tales here lack some of the roving action  and                                 fanciful--some might say  farfetched--episodes contained within earlier tales, I                                  was not entirely disappointed by their absence. Nor did I detect  the melancholia                                 noted by another; only a  recognition of aging on the part of the heroes that added a                                  new and realistic dimension to their characters--afterall,  all good things must                                 come to and end.<br />                                 I did find the sexual episodes in &quot;The  Mouser Goes Below&quot; somewhat off-putting                                  and indulgent, with their soft porn appeal to masochism and sadism, and  felt they                                 were largely irrelevant and  distracting to the plot. But as the &quot;boys&quot; sexual                                  prowess and escapades have always been indulged within the  tales, I imagine they                                 will retain continued  appeal for fans of the series, regardless of their juvenile and                                  chauvinistic pandering.	1999-12-09
US	52832478	R2GIBBAM131BA	1565048962	113094164	Return to Lankhmar	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Worth Reading If Only For Leiber's Wit And Prose	Essentially two relatively brief novels with six short stories intermixed between, Leiber continues the adventures of two of the most original characters to grace fantasy fiction, Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser.  Though  after reading &quot;Ill Met in Lankhmar&quot; and &quot;Lean Times in  Lankhmar&quot; Leiber's at times over-worked prose is beginning here to  wear thin, he nonetheless retains an ability for vividly worded description  and a well-turned phrase that sets his work apart from other fantasy  fiction.  Ever inventive in plot, Leiber is even able to construct a war  between Lankmar's human inhabitants and underworld rats and pull it off,  creating the best fable of human and rodent relationships since the  &quot;Pied Piper of Hamlin.&quot;<br />   While I would agree with an earlier  reviewer regarding the last two tales included--&quot;The Frost  Monstreme&quot; and &quot;Rime Island&quot;--I would have to say that at  least four of the included short stories are insubstantial, including  &quot;The Sadness of the Executioner&quot; lauded below.  Further, there  has been better rounded works in fantasy published since Leiber wrote this  series.  Nonetheless, this belongs on any serious fantasy afficianado's  reading list; though, being out of print, one may need to undergo some  effort to find it.	1999-11-10
US	52832478	R1S66Q659OUPQZ	1565049276	539421684	Fritz Leiber's Lean Times in Lankhmar (Lankhmar Series, No 2)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Stronger Collection of Stories than &quot;Ill Met in Lankhmar&quot;	Except for &quot;Adept's Gambit,&quot; a very early story by Leiber, all of the tales here are among the best short stories I have read in fantasy  fiction.  While Leiber's style of writing at time leans towards being a  trifle florid, he nonetheless offers some of the most richly phrased  descriptive narrative and inventive characters and settings one could find,  and I think one would be hard-pressed to call any of his work tiring or  lacking imaginative interest.  These stories belong on the shelf of any  serious fantasy reader, so I am sad to see they've gone out of print.	1999-10-29
US	52832478	RZMW46UMRSHW0	1565048946	934339135	Fritz Leiber's Ill Met in Lankhmar	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Must For Any Serious Fan of Fantasy	Fritz Leiber has a mastery of the language unmatched by any other author of fantasy I've read, and for that reason alone is worthy of recommendation to any fantasy enthusiast.  His words sing and the vividness of his  descriptions bring his characters and settings alive in a way unparalled by  any of our contemporary writers.  The only reason this collection of  loosely linked tales did not merit a full five stars was the uneveness  between the narratives, some stories richly rendered and fully resolved,  others, such as &quot;The Unholy Grail,&quot; &quot;The Circle Curse,&quot;  and &quot;The Price of Pain-Ease&quot; only sketchily conceived and less  strongly written.  Nevertheless, the short story &quot;The Snow Women&quot;  alone is worth the price of admission.	1999-10-18
US	52832478	ROM85T83KB48D	0786704896	92785803	The World Is Not Enough	Books	4	13	16	N	N	Excellent Historical Detail Unevenly Written	Long on historical accuracy and description - which cannot fail to capture the reader's imagination - the storyline is unfortunately episodic and very uneven in it's momentum, thereby diminishing its narrative force.   Deserving a higher rating for its historical content, it nonetheless is  flawed by the narrative's lack of cohesion.  A must for student's of the  period, but may disappoint those looking for a good story.	1999-09-06
US	52832478	R1H4MYVICJTQJJ	0553563734	469668234	The King's Buccaneer (Riftwar Cycle: Krondor's Sons)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Feist's Writing Improves But The Story Remains The Same	Of the six books that comprise or grow out of the &quot;Riftwar Saga,&quot; this is without doubt Feist's best effort in terms of writing skills.  Backing away, at least in the beginning, from the event laden  narrative of his earlier books, the author finally attempts to provide  greater depth both in terms of his characterizations and building up a  premise from which to launch this newest tale.  Unfortunately he does not  entirely follow through with this effort, and after the first 150 pages  begins to fall back upon his old formula of letting the action primarily  support the story.  The result is that all the characters introduced after  the first few chapters become the typical Feist caricatures that populate  his previous works, and even some of the early players - Harry in  particular - devolve into one dimensional stereotypes.  The author's  unfortunate use of the Hollywood pirate, as well as his bald borrowings  from Mongolian and Saharan cultures again become evidence of his lack of  descriptive imagination or a tendency towards indolence.  Further, his plot  devices have become repetitive: In the last six books assination attempts  have played a role in three, Crydee has been devastated by seaborn raiders  in two, dragons again save the day, all the boys and girls pair up, and the  Pantathian threat remains essentially the same; only the Slayers have  changed the color of their costume.  And again Feist winds up his tale in  mawkish sentimentality identical to &quot;A Darkness at Sethanon.&quot;  <br />Feist does offer the reader moments of unexamined action and pleasurable  escape.  The problem is that these modest diversions appear more and more  to be much of the same: Names and places change, the action shifts  chronologically, but the overall story remains familiar.  But like  McDonalds, I suppose, Feist appeals to those who like the expected.	1999-08-17
US	52832478	RQ8DPIA75TFXD	1565041917	500052033	1: The Eternal Champion (Paperback)	Books	3	22	29	N	Y	Seminal Ideas Written With Modest Skill	This book is the first in a new and ongoing omnibus publication of Michael Moorcook's fantasy fiction, centering around his seminal presentation of the &quot;Eternal Champion&quot; and the alternating realities of the  &quot;Multiverse.&quot;  These concepts have continued to influence fantasy  writers to the present, including, most recently, Robert Jordan's adoption  of a comparitive framework for his &quot;Wheel of Time&quot; series.  A  major figure in the 60's and 70's, especially in the UK, Moorcook is noted  for his innovative exploration and incorporation of metaphysics as well as  ideas more commonly associated with science fiction than fantasy.  <br />The  stories contained herein were all originally published between 1962 and  1970, and while some have since undergone revision, the quality of writing  typifies much of the work produced during that period, both in fantasy and  in science fiction.  Conceptually pregnant, the narrative devotes much of  its energy to the expression and exploration of ideas, or the description  of imaginary landscapes and populations that could be accused as flights of  fancy for invention's sake.  The work is weak when in comes to  characterization, sense of place, or providing background for the  development of the narrative.  The style of writing seems almost  undeveloped and dated when compared to the narrative and descriptive powers  present in some of the better contemporary work available.  Or perhaps it  is simply that Moorcock is more interested in the expression of the  abstract than in the grounding of his notions in good storytelling.<br />I am  somewhat unclear as to the inclusion of &quot;The Sundered Worlds&quot; in  this volume.  Not only is it the weakest story by far of the four, with a  plot that is disjointed and moves from one event to the next with little  supporting logic, but it is clearly a tale of science fiction set in the  future amid more traditional tales of sword and sworcery, and only tenouslylinked to the latter by reference to the multiverse.  Further, it indulges  in some of the worst excesses of science fiction fancy, replete with  creatures that could inhabit the worst of Harryhausen's B-movie efforts.   By itself this confused adrift in space rates only a single star.<br />The  three other tales - &quot;The Eternal Champion,&quot; &quot;Phoenix in  Obsidian,&quot; and &quot;To Rescue Tanelorn&quot; - are all traditional  sword and sorcery fare notable for their exploration of the notions of an  often reluctant hero doomed to repeat his life forever in various  incarnations within the alternate realities of Moorcock's multiverse.  And  though he wears the mantle of a champion, the causes he fights for are not  always of his choosing.  All three tales - the last a short story - in  varying degrees exhibit the lack of strong narrative skills noted above,  but remain, nonetheless, intriguing in their conceptual content.  The  strength of these ideas ameliorates somewhat the lack of prose skills in  their rendering.<br />I would have to say, as far as this book, that for  historical interest it is worth a look.  However, in terms of narrative  power the stories are never fully realised and remain, unfortunately for  all the promise of their ideas, largely stillborn.	1999-08-14
US	52832478	R101FNPESTCRQO	0553263285	200441275	A Darkness at Sethanon (The Riftwar Saga, Vol. 4)	Books	3	19	30	N	N	Though Simple &amp; Flawed Feist Tale Continues To Engage	This tale reminds me of individuals I have known that possessed any number of irritating habits, yet continued to retain my affection by nature of their simple and generous character.  That's probably overstating the case  here, but, despite Feist's tendancy towards stereotyping and simplistic  narrative, I nonetheless find myself continuing to read the &quot;Riftwar  Saga.&quot;  <br />&quot;A Darkness at Sethanon&quot; possesses most of the  flaws that have plagued the previous books:  An event driven narrative that  expends little time on characterization or descriptive detail, players that  are stereotypical and more characteristic of cartoons than fiction, as well  as a world that to a large degree dwells within the conventional.  Further,  Feist is starting to show evidence of predictability.  Most of this has  been noted, though more stridently, by previous detractors.  <br />However,  unlike many of those, I felt this book to be the best so far in the series,  and were it not for the chapters devoted to Pug and Tomas, as well as the  pollyanna quality of the final chapter, I might have felt this tale  deserving of a 4 star rating.  Much of the story following Arutha and  friends appeared to be rising above the level of the earlier tales, both in  focus as well as the use of dramatic tension and an embryonic exploration  through new characters beyond the often juvenile caricaturization that's  dogged Feist from the beginning.  Unfortunately these rudimentary advances  were greatly undermined by the overblown magic and almost omnipotent powers  possessed by Pug and Tomas in their portion of the tale, their bald rehash  of the Grecian underworld, and the appearance of the ridiculous and  incidental tigermen. What little credibility remained was decidedly  discarded in the final chapter.<br />Yet, after all my complaints, I find  myself seduced into attempting the next book.  There is a straightforward,  uncomplicated element of fun to Feist's writing that is, for all it's  faults, rather appealing.  Perhaps, as was his implied intention in the  first books, he has been successful in reaching a boyish response in me  that I thought long put away and forgotten.  In any event, these books have  provided diversion for unreflected moments.  However, all the 5 star  ratings are preposterous!	1999-08-10
US	52832478	R200NZ0Z5RXBSQ	0553270540	783024083	Silverthorn (Riftwar Saga, Volume 3)	Books	3	7	12	N	N	New Quest Begins in Ongoing Feist Sword &amp; Sorcery Fest	Here Feist continues his Riftwar romp with a new quest as lighthearted as his earlier works.  Though a bit more focused in plot than &quot;Magician,&quot; Feist follows the formulas used in the earlier books,  devoting most of his energy to action narrative in which the characters  remain caricatured stereotypes all too familiar to fans of the genre.  His  cast of characters neglects none of the usual inhabitants of the fantasy  realm, ranging from elves and goblins to dragons and pirates, as well as  the inclusion of samurai (The Tsurani), Moslem warriors from the era of  Saladin (The Empire of Kesh), and here ewoks thinly disguised as  &quot;gwali.&quot;  The princes of the realm are handsome and heroic, their  princesses beautiful and spirited.  The good guys, even when rascally  criminals, are brave and true and, after much hardship, their defeat of  evil is assured.  All in all, a storyline that could have been lifted from  a D&amp;D script.  I continue to find a lack of weight or substance to the  tales, and harbor some doubts that the &quot;Riftwar Saga&quot; will  eventually devolve into a series of repetitive, banal quests. Nonetheless I  will admit that so far Feist's stories do offer facile moments of unadorned  diversion and amusement.	1999-08-08
US	52832478	R3LXE0AHZ7NPCP	0061056219	373132481	The Lions of Al-Rassan	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Another Excellent Tale From Guy Gavriel Kay	Guy Gavriel Kay is one of fantasy's more individual authors: First, unlike most of his contemporaries, he has abandoned the seriesfor stand alone works; second, each of his books takes place within different and distinct worlds loosely based upon actual historic periods; and, finally, his writing is more mature and skilled than the majority of his peers, verging in style upon that of the traditional historical romance.<br />In &quot;Lions of Al-Rasshad&quot; Kay turns to the period of Moorish Spain for the backdrop to his tale, interweaving the cultural and political conflicts between Moslem, Jew, and Aryan nobility, each struggling to retain their cultural heritage while attempting to achieve dominance over their cultural as well as religious foes.  Typical of Kay's work since the &quot;Fionovar Trilogy,&quot; the resolution of their mutual struggles and intrigues are neither conclusive nor entirely expected, elevating the story above the typical good triumphing over evil common to fantasy tales.  Nor are Kay's characters reduced to architypal caricutures, but instead are motivated by personal  and often conflicting motives all too human to be viewed simply in terms of right and wrong.  And, as always, Kay brings to his work a freshness in approach that makes his work stand apart from the  rest of contemporary fantasy.	1999-08-07
US	52832478	R7QXAJNGGMTPN	0553564935	543210681	Magician: Master (Riftwar Saga, Book 2)	Books	3	6	9	N	N	More Light Fast Paced Fun From Feist	In the author's forward to this edition Feist refers to his desire to write a &quot;ripping yarn.&quot;  Using his own assessment, he has succeeded.  This episodic tale rarely tarries, leaping along from one event  to the next, often jumping years ahead in order to avoid any lapse in  action.  The end result, while entertaining, tends toward caricaturization  and the conventional.  Feist's players are rather one dimensional and  conform to stereotypes long ago established in the genre.  And the heroes  of this tale - male - are readily identifiable to any reminscence of  romantic, boyhood imagining.  Beneath the story and characters exists a  masculine and juvenile expression of boyish ideals of power and heroism,  mingled with notions of fairytale romance.  This is acknowledged by Feist  in the quotes chosen to preface both &quot;Magician: Apprentice&quot; and  &quot;Master.&quot; But while appealing, perhaps, to a certain nostalgia  from childhood, this approach to storytelling confines the tale within  limits that are simple, and offers neither the maturity nor complexity of  the better work in fantasy that is available.  This is a tale to read in  moments of amusement, or when seeking uncomplicated, thoughtless  escape.<br />The adulation for this tale by previous reveiwers continues to  baffle me.  This is good but simplistic fun. Far better work exists in the  writing of Martin, early Donaldson, Jordan, Kerr, Hobb, Kay, or Williamson.   And, if you want to read a REAL page burner, turn to Steven Erickson's  &quot;Gardens of the Moon:&quot;  By comparison Feist's tale is sedate.	1999-08-06
US	52832478	R3HM96YGLSAL2G	0553564943	930626996	Magician: Apprentice	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Traditional Sword &amp; Sorcery Tale Offers Light Fun.	I'm finally getting around to reading Raymond Feist to find that much of what I deduced about his work from description by others was correct.  This is primarily an event-driven storyline with little support that lacks the  heft of later writers, such as Martin, Jordan, Kay, Hobb, Kerr, Williams,  or Erickson, nor matches up to the more contemporaneous work in the early  80's of Stephen Donaldson. This is your commonplace sword and sworcery tale  that traces it's lineage directly back to Tolkein, and has been covered -  and continues to be - so often elsewhere.  However, though lacking depth in  either its characterizations or description, it nonetheless offers  lighthearted enjoyment more inventive and pleasing than some of the other  derivative &quot;Ring&quot; descendents, such as McKiernan, Brooks, or  Eddings.  Further, it appears to improve as the book goes along, offering  the hope that as he wrote Feist continued to hone his skill and expand upon  his tale.  Perhaps he will prove to be another Guy Gavriel Kay, who wrote a  similarly unfocused, at times imaginatively preposterous tale, &quot;The  Fionovar Trilogy,&quot; early in his career, only to follow it with the  outstanding fantasies &quot;Tigana,&quot; &quot;Song for Arbonne,&quot; and  &quot;Lions of Al-Rasshad.&quot;  We will see how book 2, &quot;Magician:  Master&quot; progesses.<br />I must say I am amazed by the level of praise  heaped upon this work by earlier reviewers: Is it that you have yet to read  better work, such as those of the authors mentioned above, or that you are  naturally generous in nature?  If the latter, a generous nature is  preferable, I suppose, to one stingy, and perhaps I expose myself above to  admission of this flaw.  Afterall, the story was fun, if somewhat wanting.  But if the former, I envy you the reading that waits ahead!	1999-08-04
US	52832478	R1RO5DZJIV7NJG	0553295098	110431666	The Real Story: The Gap into Conflict (The Gap Cycle)	Books	2	7	12	N	N	Time Has Not Smiled Upon Stephen Donaldson	Despite Stephen Donaldson's admitted writing talents, complemented with inventive and original concepts, the content of his work has progressively and dramatically declined since the writing of the classic fantasy sextet,  &quot;The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant,&quot; almost two decades ago.   Followed by the good but unmemorable fantasy &quot;Mirror of Her  Dreams,&quot; with the &quot;Gap&quot; series he has chosen to turn his  talents  instead to science fiction.  It is hardly a success.  <br />I forced  myself to read both the first and second books in this series, mainly, I  suppose, out of loyalty to the memory of the earlier &quot;Covenant&quot;  series.  However, whereas there the protagonist possessed a dark side that  enriched as well as leavened the realism and humanity of the tale, in the  &quot;Gap&quot; Donaldson has chosen to revel in the singular immorality  and depravity of his characters.  The end result is an unrelentingly dark  world totally devoid of humanity or an inkling of compassion, with  protagonists obsessed solely with their own selfish purpose.  There is a  determined absence of the interplay between the potential for both good and  evil that coexists in all humanity.  Instead the world of the  &quot;Gap&quot; is devoted to characters pathologically oblivious to  anything outside their own primitive survival and, more often than not,  perverse desires.  There is not a single sympathetic character to which one  can attach much response beyond disgust.  While it is obvious from reading  other reviews that Donaldson has found an audience for this work, his  creation here reflects a unremitting cynicism and misanthropy that, while I  recognize its existence in the world, I would prefer not to dwell in  entirely.  And this book is too preoccupied and single-minded in it's  desire to explore the depths of human depravity for me to applaud the  quality of it's writing. Conceptually without merit and one of the least  engaging works I have read in some time.	1999-07-31
US	52832478	R2BLCF7HB7QTGV	0553565699	463185109	Assassin's Quest (The Farseer Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A Wonderful Conclusion That Surpasses Previous Books	I am surprised by earlier reviews that found &quot;Assassin's Quest&quot; lacking in comparison to the first 2 books in the &quot;Farseer Trilogy.&quot;  My response was just the opposite, doing much to redeem the  weaknesses of those earlier novels.  Though very well written and keeping  my interest, &quot;Assassin's Quest&quot; far surpasses both, adding even  greater emotional depth to the strength of Hobb's characterizations, as  well as finally realizing the potential of magical lore only haphazardly  explored in the earlier work.  Further, the storyline is much more focused  and unified, without the prior tendancy to amble along the standard sword  and sworcery path commonplace for this genre.  Hobb finally impresses her  own unique vision upon her magical world, and in a way which is masterful,  not only in terms of characterization and vivid detail - from the beginning  her forte - but in telling the tale as well.  Finally, the work ends on a  note unexpected and bittersweet, and is all the more thought provoking and  pleasurable for it.  Bravo!<br />By itself, this book stands apart as a unique  and wonderful achievement in fantasy fiction, and as a conclusion to the  &quot;Farseer Trilogy&quot; does much to lift the earlier books up to its  level.  An enthusiastic 5 stars for this volume alone, and 4 stars for the  trilogy overall.  And I urge you to read her &quot;Ship of Magic,&quot;  which looks to be the start of an even stronger series, and an equally  marvellous as well as intelligent read.	1999-07-31
US	52832478	R1VK8S8PE62QHS	0553573411	675959125	Royal Assassin (The Farseer Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	4	4	9	N	N	Well Written Tale Continues to Improve Yet Falls Short	If half stars were available I would award book 2 of the &quot;Farseer Trilogy&quot; 3 1/2 stars, rather than a full 4.  While Hobb continues to improve upon the strengths of her first book - outstanding and mature  characterization and attention to detail - other elements, such as her  exploration of Skill and Wit remain, in my opinion, unfully realized.  In  addition, the plot decisions by certain characters in the tale hardly seem  creditible to intelligent and worldly men and women aware of Regal's intent  towards the throne.  Finally, as good as Hobb's character development is,  it is nonetheless limited by her choice of first person narrative, which  confines the story's perspective to one level and prevents the reader from  experiencing the richness in both character and storytelling available from  multiple perspectives.<br />Nonetheless, this is a very well written and  engaging tale which I shall continue into book 3.  However, so far, it does  not approach her work in &quot;Ship of Magic,&quot; and is certainly not  worthy of all the 5 star praise found herein.	1999-07-25
US	52832478	R2PGZS9278RP0L	0812541626	894162627	The Sum of All Men (The Runelords, Book One:)	Books	3	26	39	N	N	Uneven Story Perversely Endowed	This book was a mixed bag. Despite a rather riveting andclimactic battle, the rest of the story rarely captured my attentionand failed to draw me in, despite some original and potentially intriguing use of lore and sorcery. While the author's intent is obviously serious, most of this tale does not succeed in surpassing ordinary sword and sorcery fantasy. Though I might give the next book a try, it'll have to wait on my long list. <br /> Coupled with the uneven story is - for me - a problematic and morally abhorrent system of magic sustaining the nobility of this realm, which the main hero and heroine participate in. Government and power is based upon the ruling class, or Runelords, obtaining &quot;endowments&quot;, either by means of force, purchase, or contribution from their subjects. Through the use of magical blood metal &quot;forcibles&quot; the Runelords are able to transfer qualities, such as brawn, stamina, wit, sight, hearing, etc. from their individual citizenry, or a captured foe. And since forcibles are expensive, only the wealthy can afford them. While exceedingly pleasurable for the Runelord, giving them beauty and superhuman powers, the process is equally agonizing for the subject, leaving them permanently maimed and debilitated. So much for noblesse oblige! <br /> For a time it appears that an opposing, more benign alternative will be offered by the author through a life affirming magic of the Earth. In the early portion of the book the noble hero and heroine - prince and princess - question the right of this practice, and seem poised to oppose and reject the monstrous custom of obtaining endowments by means of what can only be seen as a form of human sacrifice. Yet in the end, to oppose the villain to this tale, the hero readily accepts the practice of endowments. And while he magnanimously draws the line at using force or the purchase of these &quot;gifts&quot; from the poor or oppressed, he nonetheless is willing to ignore the moral implications so long as the endowment is &quot;freely&quot; given. Sophistical in nature, this stance seems completely at odds with his earlier moral struggles, as well as his ensuing assumption of the role of the Earth King reborn, with its magical and philosophical tenets. His position instead devolves into the old fight fire with fire mentality, or, in this case, evil with evil. I'm not a prude, nor do I require a book's main character's to be all sunshine and light.  But the hypocrisy assumed here is disturbing.<br /> Orson Scott Card, in the frontispiece to this work, claims his experience at the conclusion of this book was an &quot;epiphany.&quot; In an age of moral relativism I suppose one can find divine experience in anything: Afterall, beliefs are open to changing interpretation.	1999-07-23
US	52832478	R3L67M7BYOKXK4	055357339X	354609409	Assassin's Apprentice (The Farseer Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Good But Not Great	It's hard to say much beyond the &quot;Booklist&quot; synopsis:  This reads like a first effort and only rises above the standard fantasy fare in the quality of it's writing and characterization.  Having come to this book  from Hobb's later &quot;Ship of Magic,&quot; I must admit to being somewhat  disappointed.  The storyline lacks the focus of the later work, nor does  the characterization and world building have the same degree of depth.   However, as this is a first work, the tale being better written than most,  and I have the later work as an example of what the writer is capable of, I  will continue on to read the second book of the &quot;Farseer Trilogy&quot;  with expectation that it will improve with the telling.	1999-07-23
US	52832478	R214YMOT3I0DD9	0553575635	333696092	Ship of Magic (The Liveship Traders, Book 1)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Not For Those Seeking Fast Paced Action	This was the first book of Robin Hobb's that I'd read, and I must admit that I approached it with some reservations.  I suspected that with the inclusion of pirates it would become some rousing seafaring tale long on  action and stereotypes and short on craft and characterization.  I could  not have been more mistaken.  In many ways this tale was more reminiscent  of work written by any of a number of 19th century authors, such as E.M.  Forrester or Joseph Conrad.  With a great amount of detail devoted to  multifacted characterization and evolving relationships, as well as to the  Trader culture of Bingtown, Hobb is not in any hurry to push the storyline  along by punctuations of suspense and action.  Instead she gradually  developes her characters and their interpersonal conflicts until they  possess a depth and individuality rarely encountered in fantasy fiction.   While I doubt such writing skills will be appreciated by all - especially  those who moan and groan about Jordan's unwillingness to rush his saga to  conclusion - I appreciate and applaud Hobb's effort.  <br />I look forward to  &quot;Mad Ship&quot; and have already gone back to discover her earlier  &quot;Farseer Trilogy.&quot;  For those who enjoy a well written tale that  is not dependent upon repeated battles and bursts of sorcery to hold one's  interest, I heartily recommend this story.	1999-07-18
US	52832478	R1CZNRK1DEZJRU	0451451155	446908784	TIGANA	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Vast Improvement Upon Fionovar Trilogy	While I found the &quot;Fionovar Trilogy&quot; somewhat engaging, in many ways it resembled your standard sword and sworcery tale, and suffered from contrivances, especially the inclusion of Arthurian legend.  Tigana  represents a clean break from these flaws and Kay creates a world and tale  that is inventive and wholly original.  Though at moments the story lags,  often as an outgrowth to the travels of some of the main characters,  overall the tale is well paced, with multiple plots that hold the reader's  interest.  Kay's characters are mature and multifaceted in their  perceptions, and relationships are complex.  An excellent book, well worth  the time spent.	1999-07-11
US	52832478	R2W1KRF3HLUBBW	0451451562	161809485	Wandering Fire (Fionavar Tapestry)	Books	3	10	14	N	N	While Engaging Lacks the Focus of Kay's Later Work	While the three books that form the &quot;Fionavar Tapestry&quot; are engaging, they all suffer, to varying degrees, from a loosely scripted, and at                      times, implausible plot, as well as the inclusion  of Arthurian elements that remain contrived and unnecessary except as a  &quot;hook&quot;                      pandering to the appeal the Camelot  legend holds for many readers, and that has already elsewhere been  overworked. Further, I                      question the plot device of  characters that are transported by varying means from &quot;our&quot; world  into parallel fantasy realms that appear                      popular with  many fantasy writers: Effectively used to inform the story in Donaldson's  &quot;Covenant&quot; series, other writers turn to its use                       solely as a clever artifice by which to move characters around.<br />                      While better than most of the fantasy fiction about, this  trilogy lacks the focus of Kay's later, more mature and individual works,  such as                      &quot;Tigana&quot; or &quot;Song for  Arbonne.&quot; Read these if you are seeking serious and original fantasy  tales. Save the &quot;Fionavar Trilogy&quot; for                       moments of simple, unexamined diversion.	1999-07-10
US	52832478	R2JABGG0PNZQM8	0886777992	359194039	This Alien Shore	Books	4	7	14	N	N	Enjoyable Book That Lacks Somewhat In Narrative Power	A parable set in the future that in part mirrors the present, &quot;This Alien Shore&quot; was engaging yet lacked the narrative power to fully capture my interest.  Due to a necessity to create and explain the  technological aspects of her future world, C.S. Friedman is forced to  expend energy away from the narrative, thereby sapping some of its force  and energy.  As this is a recurring complaint that I have with much science  fiction, perhaps this criticism is an individual response and should be  weighed against those who find interest in the technological and  theoretical concepts that I find often overburdening this genre. Those  among you who turn to science fiction for its theoretical content will  undoubtedly find my criticism over harsh, and I expect will enjoy this work  immensely.  Nonetheless I find the storyline weakened by the explanatory  excursions into brainware systems, data codes, virus creations, and Guild  operations.  My loss, perhaps.	1999-07-10
US	52832478	R3JQ2WKNPG8HQ9	0886773849	483496444	The Dragonbone Chair: Book One of Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn (Osten Ard)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Memory, Sorrow and Thorn One of the Better Fantasy Series	This book begins the quartet of &quot;Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn,&quot; and is one of the better fantasy series currently available for reading.                       Well written, with a developed mythos, good  characterization, and solid plotting, this series must stand as one of the  better, if not                       among the best, of the fantasy series  availble for reading. Much of the story and world are freshly rendered, and  rarely does the reader                       encounter the overly familiar  or implausible contrivances that plague so much of contemporary fantasy  fiction. Nor are the                       characterizations idealized or  juvenile. While this series does not rise, for me, to the imaginary  involvement of works such as &quot;Lord of                       the  Rings,&quot; the first three &quot;Chronicles of Thomas Covenant,&quot;  Bradley's &quot;Mists of Avalon,&quot; Kay's work since  &quot;Fianovar,&quot; and Martin's or                       Jordan's  (despite its flaws) ongoing series, nonetheless, I cannot recommend this  quartet highly enough. <br />                      One note of caution: Action  addicts may have difficulty with the &quot;Stone of Farewell&quot; as the  first 150 pages are devoted to establishing                        background and character development of the main protagonist, but I believe  if they perservere, only the true adrenelin junkie will feel                        short-changed. And for you, there is always Eddings or Bradshaw or  comics.	1999-07-07
US	52832478	R2I1L68UG5C7YX	0553572644	16451535	The Red Wyvern (Dragon Mage, Book 1)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Kerr's Fantasy Is Deserving Of More Attention.	I'm a little confused as to why this book is being called &quot;Book One of the Dragon Mage,&quot; as though Kerr has begun a new series.  The story takes up right where the last book, &quot;Days of Air and Darkness,&quot; left off.  In addition, Kerr spends much of the book returning to an  earlier thread of her story that was left unfully told several volumes  back.  This book therefore seems a direct descendent to her first eight.   But why quibble?:  This is a worthy successor to her earlier work.<br />As  mentioned above, I was pleased to find her finally completing her tale of  the Civil Wars, begun so many books back and left dangling for so long.  I  had begun to despair ever finding out in full about the conquest of Deverry  by the High King and his supporters, so many of whom have played successive  roles as Kerr's series unfolds.  And, I gather, this part of her story is  not yet fully over.  In a similar vein, I was also heartened by hints that  Ebany will once again be appearing, after being rather unceremoniously  dumped back in &quot;A Time of Omens.&quot;  A complete jettisoning of  these plot and character elements would have done much to diminish my  opinion of this series.  As I have thus far enjoyed it greatly, I was  pleased that my faith in Kerr's writing had been rewarded.<br />Much more  episodic than the current and, apparently, more popular works by Martin and  Jordan, this work is nonetheless their equal, and deserving of more  attention.  While I believe this series overall is deserving of five stars,  I gave this particular entry four, as I found Part 3 somewhat weaker in  plot than the rest of the book.  I realize this may be due to demands  placed upon the author for setting up the next book, but nonetheless found  this chapter unbalancing to the book's overall structure.  This doesn't,  however, lessen my anticipation for the publication of the next book.  And  for those fans already missing the passing of Jill and Nevyn, I suspect  Jill in other guise is already back, and Kerr has indicated that Nevyn will  shortly follow; Take heart!	1999-06-28
US	52832478	RSSH4RTHMX0ZA	0553572628	341064394	Days of Air and Darkness (The Westlands)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	The Best Overlooked Series in Fantasy Fiction?	I don't get it:  Jordan's &quot;Wheel of Time&quot; series has received  2,867 reviews here, and Martin's recent two books, &quot;Game of  Thrones&quot; and &quot;Clash of Kings,&quot; have garnered 436 reviews  alone!  But Katharine Kerr's eight books in the &quot;Westlands&quot;  series to date have seen a mere 38 reviews, and seven of those are mine!  I  don't know if it's due to poor marketing on the part of the publisher,  Bantam, or whether readers were initially put off by the first book -  admittedly somewhat weak - but for whatever reason the word needs to go out  that Kerr's &quot;Westlands&quot; books are among the best that fantasy has  to offer, and a worthy rival to the works of Jordan and Martin.<br />While  Kerr's story may lack some of the wonderful detailing that Jordan may  lavish upon his work - I suspect he would have added at least 4,000 more  pages had he told this tale - and Kerr's storytelling is much more  understated than either his or Martin's, it certainly rivals both in terms  of scope and its creation of a wondrous and living realm, and inventively  surpasses them by interweaving multiple story lines over a span of  generations.  This may prove a difficulty for those readers used to linear  plots and chronology, or those seeking instant gratification in the rewards  of cause and effect - bad character does evil and is immediately punished;  heroine gets kidnapped but is rescued in a timely manner - but, once I got  past the first book, the shifts of plot time line have contributed richness  and complexity to a story as intricate as those being spun by either  author.  And, while borrowing upon genre conventions such as elves and  dwarves, as well as turning to celtic mythology, this is no rehashing of  Arthurian legend or a Misty Mountain romp, and Kerr has created a marvelous  world that is largely original and unique, populated by characters that are  mature in both action and thought while avoiding the common taint of  juvenile or gender stereotype.<br />Compared to the work overall, my  complaints are rather petty.  Kerr has an annoying habit at times of  abandoning characters without fully, to my mind, resolving their departure  from the script, as well as leaving other plot threads dangling.  However,  as the story is still unfolding, as well as parallely dispersed across  hundreds of years, perhaps these issues will find conclusion in future  volumes?  Some instances of this found in earlier books were resolved in  later, so I will hope that all will become clear in future.  In a similar  vein, Kerr really needs to provide a complete chronology and cast of  characters with each book covering the entire span of her tale and  encompassing all periods.  As her story unfolds over centuries, with  recurring shifts in time line, it becomes an at times herculean effort to  remember who is who, especially when certain characters are abandoned only  to reappear several volumes later.  Also, I do not understand singling out  the next book, &quot;The Red Wyvern,&quot; as &quot;Book One of the Dragon  Mage,&quot; as it is obvoiusly a continuation of the story - or stories -  begun in the &quot;Westlands&quot; books, and predicated upon the  conclusion to &quot;Days of Air and Darkness.&quot;  Finally, for those of  you who may note my reservation in reviewing the preceding volume to an  appearance of a dragon, it seemed to work; Either my objections were  overridden by the strength of the tale, or, as I have grown older, I have  lost earlier powers of discrimination.<br />This is a great series, so stop  reading Jordan and Martin over and over, or waiting for their next  installments.  Another wonderful world awaits you in the Westlands	1999-06-27
US	52832478	R2B9ZFQ2LWB08F	0553290126	309172642	Days of Blood and Fire - A Novel of the Westlands	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Book Seven of an Outstanding Series	Similar to &quot;The Dragon Revenant&quot; Kerr again returns to a linear plot previously set up in &quot;Time of Omens,&quot; again abandoning her usual interaction of stories set within differing time periods.  Obviously by now I am an enthusiast of the tale and world begun in  &quot;Daggerspell&quot; and would recommend fans of better fantasy fiction  take a look.  Despite the positive response of the previous reviewer,  however, Kerr's books are not written as stand-alones, and without the  information provided by the earlier works, one's enjoyment of this book  will be greatly limited.  Despite the fact that it was the weakest book in  the series, start with &quot;Daggerspell&quot;:  By the time you reach  &quot;Days of Blood and Fire&quot; I'm sure you'll conclude that the  considerable time invested was enjoyably well spent.<br />I do however have  one reservation regarding this book:  The introduction of a dragon.  It may  be a personal quirk on my part, but rarely have I found the active  appearance of dragons in a tale either satisfying or credible.  Often  anthropomorphised in manner either typecast or silly - McCaffrey's  romanticized and laughable wyrms are but the most notable examples - their  inclusion as characters almost invariably fails to be convincing (At the  risk of sacrilege I would include Tolkein's Smaug).  Though the dragon here  is present for only a few pages, it is apparant that it will play a large  role in the next book, and it talks, which may not bode well for the  conclusion of the series.  Those of you who delight in clever wyrms, carry  on.  I will reserve final comment for completion of the next book.	1999-06-25
US	52832478	R2FG6INUJ2CD4E	0312857691	504533718	The Path of Daggers (The Wheel of Time, Book 8)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Patience Is A Virtue	It would appear that many readers are losing patience as Jordan's tale unfolds.  I suppose they would prefer it if the Seanchan signed a nonaggression pact sealed by Mat's marriage to the Empress, if Taim and the  Aes Sedai finally found the pull of ta'veren too powerful to resist, and,  after the discovery of a secret cache hidden in Tar Valon, everyone armed  themselves with sa'angreal to wink through a gateway to Shayol Ghul,  blasting, with the requisite degree of drama, the Forsaken and the Dark One  into the next Age. This would certainly satisfy action junkies inured to  the simplicity and contrivence of authors such as Eddings, McCaffrey, or  Brooks.  And, as ninety-five percent of fantasy fiction is pure pulp  published at the rate of at least one book a year, demanding little in  terms of reader participation or discrimination, I suppose it should not be  surprising that many readers are abandoning this series in favor of the  quick fix.<br />Granted, this book is, along with &quot;Eye of the  World,&quot; one of the weaker offerings of the series. Devoted in large  part to serving the evolution of the larger storyline, much of &quot;Path  of Daggers&quot; is concerned with developing the plot and positioning the  characters in obvious preparation for the next major phase in the story.   Like a strategist readying the field, Jordan is moving his players around  prior to launching the next campaign.  But to do otherwise, I would  contend, would do much to undermine the realism and credibility he has  built up in the story thus far, and could only be accomplished by means of  contrivance or expediency that would erode the plot construction he has  worked so skillfully to create.  Certainly it would be expedient to swiftly  bring the army of rebel Aes Sedai before Tar Valon by means of a gate, or  have Mat accidentally bump into the Empress on the streets of Ebou Dar, but  only at a cost to the realism of the story.  However, what has  distinguished Jordan sofar from the majority of his fellow writers, beside  the sheer scope of his story, is his ability to believably create a vast  and multifaceted world interwoven into a rich and multi-layered tale  consisting of many threads without tangling either the overall pattern or  losing the individual detailed strands of the story.  It remains quite an  accomplishment for this genre.<br />Those readers seeking simple diversion  through reading - and there's nothing wrong with that - should abandon this  work and look elsewhere.  Those who want more from their reading will be  rewarded in continuing.  Finally, for those who have counterposed Martin's  new work to Jordan's, let my suggest the following qualification:  Much as  I admire &quot;Game of Thrones&quot; and &quot;Clash of Kings,&quot; and  have great expectations for the future, Martin's series has just begun, and  has a ways to go before comparisons can become constructive.	1999-06-20
US	52832478	RQKD0A5BR03GS	0553298135	217164713	A Time of Exile (Deverry Series, Book Five)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The Westland Series Is A Must For Any Serious Fantasy Fan	While I had some reservations regarding the first two books in the series, now that I have read the fifth, any hesitancy I may have had in recommending this series has been dispelled.  I can think of only five  works that excell or are its equal:  The obvious &quot;Lord of the  Rings,&quot; &quot;The Mists of Avalon,&quot; &quot;Chronicles of Thomas  Covenant,&quot; the ongoing &quot;Wheel of Time,&quot; and the current  &quot;A Song of Ice and Fire.&quot;  And, lover's of &quot;The Mists of  Avalon&quot; should particularly like this work, as it continues a celtic  realm in a somewhat similar vein.  You will need to start with the first  book, despite its flaws, or you'll find yourself somewhat lost, as was an  earlier reviewer, but I believe you'll discover yourself quickly entranced  by the world of the Westlands, and find Kerr's realms intriguing and  originally rendered.  I find her treatment of the Wildfolk particularly  engaging.	1999-06-20
US	52832478	R11SIO71QQBOVO	0553290118	838198092	A Time of Omens (The Westlands)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	An Excellent Book In An Outstanding Series.	I am surprised there are no other reviews of this book, as it is part of one of the truly outstanding series in fantasy fiction, and certainly deserving of some of the attention currently being heaped upon the  contemporaneous &quot;World of Time&quot; series by Jordan, or the recent  &quot;A Song of Ice and Fire&quot; begun by Martin.  While lacking in some  of the richness of detail and characterization present in those works,  nonetheless this series is deserving of serious attention by fans of the  genre.<br />Set within a celtic realm, Kerr's tale actually follows the  interwoven stories of several different characters spread across a time  span of several hundred years in the history of the Westlands.  Some  readers used to the more conventional use of a linear plot may find this  disconcerting, but Kerr has used it effectively and originally in evolving  her story over the past six books.  The realms of Westlands are varied and  richly landscaped, and the mythology behind the world intriguing.  The only  flaw that prevented me from assigning 5 stars to this book was Kerr's  sketchy handling of Jill's time spent in Anmurdio, a problem similar to  those that plagued Kerr's first book, &quot;Daggerspell.&quot;   Nonetheless, a worthy successor to previous books in the series, and  definately well worth the read.<br />One final note of complaint, directed at  the publisher:  It would be helpful, for those of us with a geographical  bent, to provide maps of the Westlands with all of the books in the series.   Since the second, book maps have been absent, except for a partial map  available in &quot;The Dragon Revenant.&quot;  Even more irritating is the  lack of provision in certain books of a full and complete character list  covering at least the major characters in all six books.  With all the  shifts in plot line in time that take place, as well as the reappearance of  certain characters in later books, it would be helpful to have this aid for  one's memory.	1999-06-20
US	52832478	R3CX0SH7D5AUZF	0451453328	469239951	Song for Arbonne	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Kay's Best Work?	I have greatly enjoyed Guy Gavriel Kay's writing, and even found &quot;The Fionavar Tapestry&quot; engaging, if not equal to his later, more mature work.  Kay is certainly one of the best and most original writers fantasy  has to offer, and this work remains a favorite.  Like &quot;The Lions of  Al-Rassan&quot; and &quot;Sailing to Sarantium &quot;, the story is loosely  based upon a historical period and culture, in this case the troubadour era  of Mediterranean Europe.  Kay interweaves his tale with the customs of  medieval knighthood as well as the conflicting worship of a patriarchal sun  god and an older, magical veneration of a goddess familiar to anyone having  studied Robert Graves.  Interlaced into these plot motifs are elements of  court intrigue, mystery, and familial skeletons in the closet.  Yet out of  this seeming disparate stew Kay is able to distill a complicated tale of  conflict that is not only believable but attains a life of its own.  Unlike  much fantasy fiction, the characterization is mature and complex, both in  thought and motivation, and Kay's characters evolve with the story.   Further, neither the plot nor the players always follow what is expected,  yet at no time does the action become contrived or a stretch of one's  credulity.  Kay obviously loves the unforeseen twist, and  cleverly calls  it to use.  And I think you'll find the aftermath to &quot;A Song for  Arbonne&quot; an unsuspected delight.	1999-06-13
US	52832478	R1PQ17G25O7YG6	0812511816	456114433	The Eye of the World (The Wheel of Time, Book 1)	Books	5	267	357	N	N	This Series Looks To Become A Classic Of The Genre.	Having read all eight books so far written, I believe it is impossible not to consider this work as one of the few truly great offerings of fantasy fiction.  Jordan has created a world that is unforgettable, a cast as  varied and diverse as his mythological landscape, and a story that can only  be hailed as monumental.  And it is difficult to avoid superlatives in its  description.  Granted, Jordan's writing occasionally has its flaws - the  heroines are at times too similar and adolescent in character - but he is a  master storyteller, and, to date, no one equals his work either in sheer  scale or intricacy of story.<br />I actually find this first book in the  series to be the weakest of the set.  This is due entirely to the rather  hasty manner in which he resolves the book's conclusion.  After 600 pages  of buildup, the last 50 pages seemed rushed and thinly realized, and the  detail and characterization lavished upon earlier chapters is abandoned in  a scurry to climactically bring the reader to the book's finale.  Because  of this, the passage through the blight, the encounter with  the Green Man,  and the combat with the Forsaken seem, in comparison with earlier chapters,  cursory and caricaturesque in treatment.  The resolution, therefore, was  somewhat unsatisfying; fortunately this failing is not repeated in the  books that follow.<br />There has been a great degree of criticism found  herein of Jordan's borrowings from Tolkein.  Evidence of this is most  apparent in the first book, and becomes much less noticeable in the works  which follow.  I find much of this criticism, in any event, overwrought, as  Jordan's storyline, mythological background, and world are largely  original, and many of the borrowings, such as the myrddraal,  recontextualised in a way that make them distinctly Jordan's own.  The only  exception is the Green Man - far too baldly borrowed from Tom Bombadil and  the Ents - but this character's presence is brief and absent after the  first book.  Further, all the critics seem to forget - or, more likely,  simply don't know - that Tolkein drew blatantly from the Norse and Germanic  sagas, and to a degree that makes him far more open to complaints of  plagiarism by anyone having read the sagas or watched a performance of  Wagner's &quot;Ring.&quot;  The aesthetic justification, if there is one,  is in the manner and extent of the retelling, and in this regard Jordan is  far more sucessful in his appropriation than was Tolkein.  Finally, let us  not forget that fantasy is a genre, which by implication attaches a certain  amount of repetitive iconography and convention;  Those who trot out this  weary disclaimer neither understand nor know the history of fantasy  genre.<br />Finally, for those who, as the story continues in later books,  have complained about the pace, or the amount of detail and  characterization, all I can say is that you remind me of children that  cannot wait to open gifts at Christmas.  If you are so impatient for the  story to end, or need a constant fix of action, other books are available  for you:  Read the simplistic tales of Eddings or Brooks, or turn for  release to comics.  Certainly never ever pick up a work of literature or  serious fiction lest you find yourself bored with the tedium of reading.	1999-06-12
US	52832478	R2Y5RXUXSI9BPW	0553285815	742488338	The Bristling Wood (Deverry Series, Book Three)	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Fans Of &quot;Mists of Avalon&quot; Should Not Overlook This Series.	After an uneven start in &quot;Daggerspell,&quot; Katharine Kerr has continued to build upon and expand the characters and world of Deverry, and with &quot;Bristling Wood,&quot; the third book of the octet, has brought  her storytelling talents to full maturity.  Description, while lacking the  depth of a Jordan or Martin, is nonetheless detailed and vivid,  characterizations diverse and singular, and the secondary characters have  begun to contribute significant roles to the story, greatly enriching the  tale.  With this volume Kerr's series must begin to be considered as a  contender among the  few truly notable works of fantasy fiction, and I   expectantly look forward to reading the rest of the eight to see if the  story fulfills its undeniable promise.  Fans of &quot;The Mists of  Avalon&quot;  would be making a mistake in ignoring celtic Deverry.	1999-06-12
US	52832478	R3U0H1VTB75OPF	0553568884	102562391	Darkspell (Deverry Series, Book Two)	Books	4	14	17	N	N	Uneven Start of Daggerspell Resolved in Darkspell	As noted in my review of &quot;Daggerspell,&quot; I felt, despite the story's interest, it was weakened by a lack of fully realized characterization as well as thinly drawn detail.  However, the world of  Deverry and celtic folklore were so engagingly rendered that I perservered  and was rewarded by the continuing tale of &quot;Darkspell.&quot;   Here  Kerr appears to have mastered her earlier awkward plot transitions in time,  integrating her multiple storylines smoothly and cohesively.  And her  descriptive narrative has grown, suffering only in comparison with authors  such as Martin or Jordan, with the characters' personalities having become  more fully formed.  Unlike a previous reviewer, I find her villains more  cunning than malevolent, but the opposition between dark and light dweomer  is developing and offers much promise for the future.  Also, the  possibility for expanded roles by stronger and recurrent secondary  characters - much needed - now appears possible, and it is my hope that we  will see a further development of figures such as Ebany, Devaberiel, Rhys,  and Tondalo (Even a possible return of Sarcyn?) in supporting roles in   future.  To date far too many of the secondary players, such as Aderyn and  Ysolla, have played sisgnificant walk-on parts in one book only to  disappear in the next.  I believe Kerr's story would by vastly enriched by  an expanded and repeated presence of some of the story's secondary  characters.  I perceive a hint of this intent with Ebany and Tondalo; I  hope they are not alone.<br />Overall, &quot;Darkspell&quot; was a very  satisfying read, and a marked improvement over &quot;Daggerspell.&quot; I  look forward to reading &quot;The Bristling Wood.&quot;<br />(As an aside:   It's nice to see some decent cover art on this series; So much fantasy art  is crudely drawn or depicting laughable imagery.)	1999-06-06
US	52832478	R32VJKBDWMA5B7	0553565214	586895703	Daggerspell (Deverry Series, Book One)	Books	3	47	60	N	N	Despite Uneven Writing Worth A Look	This book caught my interest, despite the author's uneven and at times weak writing skills.  Kerr has created a wonderful celtic world and culture in Deverrey, with strong if unfully realized characters, and certainly has  a story to tell.   I simply wish she had taken more time to flesh out her  plot and characters.  Also, the transitions between time periods that occur  are more often awkward than smoothly segued.  Nonetheless, there is enough  here that is original and captivating that I will continue on with the  second book of the series.  Furthermore, the author appeared to be reaching  her stride by the second half of the work, offering hope that the sketchy  storyline and sparse detail that detracts at the start will resolve itself  into fuller expression as the tale continues.  It's definately worth a  read, and I suspect will improve with the telling.<br />Finally, I must say  that many of the reviews I find herein, both for this work as well as  others, seem to ignore any proportioned approach or critical evaluation,  burdened by an emotional bias that refutes credibility. It beggars belief  that every book written deserves either 5 stars or an opposing trashing.   It would be nice to see a bit more balance in these reviews, as well as  evidence of thoughtful and comparative approach.	1999-06-05
US	52832478	R3344SP1JY6TNG	0446606235	728877182	The Barbed Coil	Books	3	2	4	N	N	This Work Never Rises Above The Ordinary.	Despite the author's obvious serious intent here, I found myself struggling to finish this work.  It never caught my imagination, let alone my full attention, and I found myself rather wearied by a storyline that  never really stood out, characters that to a large degree seemed typecast  and standard, and an ending where everyone pairs up and lives happily ever  after.  Despite moments of originality in the use of magic and  illumination, as well as successful characterizations, such as the Emiths,  overall the story becomes quickly stale, and the characters rather shallow.   The relationship between Angeline - supposedly a queen - and her  &quot;no-good&quot; dog Snowy is just too precious, the reunion of Ravis  and Malray unconvincing and contrived, the tormented figure of King Izgard  familiar and rote, and the relationship of Ravis and Tessa lacking all  passion.  Further, the author's reliance on the outworn device of shifting  her main character between parallel worlds was off-putting right from the  start.  Despite Jones' dedicated effort at writing, this work lacks any  real life.  I am baffled by those who are laudatory:  This work never rises  above the ordinary.	1999-05-31
US	52832478	R2D0AGAEQ4L3XB	0451451805	455724276	The Darkest Road (Fionavar Tapestry)	Books	3	10	18	N	N	While engaging, lacks the focus of Kay's later works.	While the three books that form the &quot;Fionavar Tapestry&quot; are engaging, they all suffer, to varying degrees, from a loosely scripted, and at times, implausible plot, as well as the inclusion of Arthurian elements  that remain contrived and unnecessary except as a &quot;hook&quot;  pandering to the appeal the Camelot legend holds for many readers, and that  has already elsewhere been overworked.   Further, I question the plot  device of characters that are transported by varying means from  &quot;our&quot; world into parallel fantasy realms that appear popular with  many fantasy writers: Effectively used to inform the story in Donaldson's  &quot;Covenant&quot; series, other writers turn to its use solely as a  clever artifice by which to move characters around.<br />While better than  most of the fantasy fiction about, this trilogy lacks the focus of Kay's  later, more mature and individual works, such as &quot;Tigana&quot; or  &quot;Song for Arbonne.&quot;  Read these if you are seeking serious and  original fantasy tales.  Save the &quot;Fionavar Trilogy&quot; for moments  of simple, unexamined diversion.	1999-05-30
US	52832478	R1X4BVMB7WD2DB	0886774802	931140449	Stone of Farewell (Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn, Book 2)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	&quot;Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn&quot; one of the better fantasy series	This book begins the quartet of &quot;Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn,&quot; and is one of the better fantasy series currently available for reading.  Well written, with a developed mythos, good characterization, and solid  plotting, this series must stand as one of the better, if not among the  best, of the fantasy series availble for reading.   Much of the story and  world are freshly rendered, and rarely does the reader encounter the overly  familiar or implausible contrivances that plague so much of contemporary  fantasy fiction.  Nor are the characterizations idealized or juvenile.   While this series does not rise, for me, to the imaginary involvement of  works such as &quot;Lord of the Rings,&quot; the first three  &quot;Chronicles of Thomas Covenant,&quot; Bradley's &quot;Mists of  Avalon,&quot; Kay's work since &quot;Fianovar,&quot; and Martin's or  Jordan's (despite its flaws) ongoing series, nonetheless, I cannot  recommend this quartet highly enough.  <br />One note of caution:  Action  addicts may have difficulty with the &quot;Stone of Farewell&quot; as the  first 150 pages are devoted to establishing background and character  development of the main protagonist, but I believe if they perservere, only  the true adrenelin junkie will feel short-changed.  And for you, there is  always Eddings or Bradshaw or comics.	1999-05-30
US	52832478	R3EPK4NAFUFAJD	0451451384	984290410	The Summer Tree (Fionavar Tapestry)	Books	2	41	62	N	N	Engaging, but lacks the focus of Kay's more mature work.	While the three books that form the &quot;Fionavar Tapestry&quot; are engaging, they all suffer, to varying degrees, from a loosely scripted, and at times, implausible plot, as well as the inclusion of Arthurian elements  that remain contrived and unnecessary except as a &quot;hook&quot;  pandering to the appeal the Camelot legend holds for many readers, and that  has already elsewhere been overworked.   Further, I question the plot  device of characters that are transported by varying means from  &quot;our&quot; world into parallel fantasy realms that appear popular with  many fantasy writers: Effectively used to inform the story in Donaldson's  &quot;Covenant&quot; series, other writers turn to its use solely as a  clever artifice by which to move characters around.<br />Though better than  most of the fantasy fiction about, this trilogy lacks the focus of Kay's  later, more mature and individual works, such as &quot;Tigana&quot; or  &quot;Song for Arbonne.&quot;  Read these if you are seeking serious and  original fantasy tales.  Save the &quot;Fionavar Trilogy&quot; for moments  of simple, unexamined diversion.<br />(As &quot;The Summer Tree&quot; is the  weakest book in the trilogy, I have only rated it individually two stars,  whereas I have rated the series three stars overall in my review of  &quot;The Darkest Road.&quot;)	1999-05-30
US	52832478	RMAESSB6I2G82	0451454561	731223526	The Dragonstone: A Novel of Mithgar	Books	2	5	9	N	N	Rambling, mundane adventure tale.	This was the first work I've read by McKiernan and while there is much worse out there, there is also much better.  This is your ordinay quest adventure, in which the author moves the reader around as a small heroic  band seek out a magical object which will save their world.  Sound  familiar?  The heroes and heroines are humans and elves that all pair up at  the end, the enemy is an evil wizard, and the world is populated with  trolls and dragons.  I could live with all of this if the story offered  anything new or was well told.  But instead the reader spends a lot of time  in tedious travel or recounting plots thread worn by anyone who has ever  played D&amp;D or read Tolkien.  It's not that McKiernan doesn't know how  to write, but simply that he doesn't seem to be able to breath any  freshness or life into his story.  Look elsewhere unless you're simply  looking for a way to pass the time.	1999-05-30
US	52832478	R1L8IFCLJYVGQA	0812551486	479902349	Temple of the Winds (Sword of Truth, Book 4)	Books	3	18	22	N	N	A decent series whose strengths have steadily waned.	What began as an interesting fantasy in &quot;Wizard's First Rule&quot; and &quot;Stone of Tears&quot; has begun to devolve into episodic serialization and somewhat sophomoric heroic posturing.  To be honest, I  never felt this series to be among the best, an equal to Tolkein's  &quot;Lord of the Rings,&quot; Donaldson's &quot;Chronicles of Thomas  Covenant,&quot; William's &quot;Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn,&quot; or  Martin's or Jordan's ongoing series.  There has always been the sense of  Goodkind writing in the shadow of Jordan for reasons that are obvious, and,  regardless of arguments over &quot;The Wheel of Time's&quot; flaws, the  &quot;Sword of Truth&quot; series by Goodkind has never approached the  scale of Jordan's work, and appears now to be flagging in both energy and  focus.<br />What began in &quot;Wizard's First Rule&quot; as a fantasy epic  with a solid story line and much original content, despite a few obvious  broad borrowings from past writer's, including Jordan, has become, with  this book, a series of adventures only loosely connected to the grand  conceptual story promised by the first book.  The original premise  presented in &quot;Wizard's First Rule&quot; is now forming the excuse for  800 page excursions into secondary stories that exist in large part  separate from the  larger struggle that is the premise behind this series.   As a stand-alone, this book is unsuccessful, and succeeds only because it  is propped by the previous works.  Nor does it advance the earlier story  established by those books.  Instead, if you examine the plot closely, it  revisits a lot of old ground.  The thread of Goodkind's legend has begun to  become unravelled.<br />A further problem has begun to manifest itself in his  characters:  They have begun to become stereotypes of themselves.  They are  far too full of their roles, and much of their response to situations  becomes a form of posturing, and therefore predictable.  The more I saw of  Richard and Kahlan,the less sympathetic they became.  The overall  population in this series have become caricatures of themselves, and if one  looks closely, one does not really care for what one finds.<br />In closing, I  wish to address a couple issues that crop up repeatedly in reviews of this  work, as well as other fantasy fiction:<br />1.  I weary of all the reverent  comparisons to Tolkein.  Let's judge a work based upon it's own merits, not  some &quot;mythic&quot; comparison to a work that is considered by many to  be the founding work of a genre, and therefore flawless.  This ignores not  only certain weaknesses in Tolkein's writing ability, but the strengths of  writers that have followed.  If &quot;Lord of the Rings&quot; is the  ultimate achievement in fantasy fiction, why are we reading further?<br />2.   The accusation of derivative work:  It's all, to one degree or another  derivative.  There is, perhaps, no more derivative work in fantasy than  Tolkein; one only need read the Norse or Germanic sagas, or watch Wagner's  &quot;Ring Cycle&quot; to realize how closely Tolkein copied these works.   So to those who cry foul when they perceive similarities between  contemporary authors and Tolkein, I say know what of you speak:  Likely  you've never even heard of E.R.Eddison.	1999-05-30
US	52832478	RC4KZNQFI4MS9	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	May Become A Major Work of Fantasy Fiction	Martin appears to be on his way, with &quot;Game of Thrones&quot; and &quot;Clash of Kings,&quot; to writing what may become one of THE major works of fantasy fiction.  Both works are among the best fantasy fiction  written in the past 20 years, and certainly stand among the handful or so  of serious fantasy fiction.  The plot is complex, the world medieval with  living detail, characterizations multidimensional and mature, with intrigue  that is Machiavellian and a plot that never flags nor loses itself in its  intricacy.  A great amount of realism exists, not only in the midieval  description of culture and customs, but in the ambiguity of action and  character.  Both male and female figures are prominent, perspective is  varied, and sometimes good people die and malicious people prosper.  And  the main characters are not immune to tragedy.  There is a well-developed  mythology here, as well as history:  Both are original and inventive.  Magic and religion play a role, but neither are intrusive or overstated.  And, for once, the presence of dragons is believeable.<br />If you are a fan  of fantasy at its best, don't miss these!	1999-05-30
US	52832478	RXPI6KJA1Q14I	0553108034	153810577	A Clash of Kings (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	One Of The Best Works In Recent Years	Martin appears to be on his way, with &quot;Game of Thrones&quot; and &quot;Clash of Kings,&quot; to writing what may become one of THE major works of fantasy fiction.  Both works are among the best fantasy fiction  written in the past 20 years, and certainly stand among the handful or so  of serious fantasy fiction.  The plot is complex, the world medieval with  living detail, characterizations multidimensional and mature, with intrigue  that is Machiavellian and a plot that never flags nor loses itself in its  intricacy.  A great amount of realism exists, not only in the midieval  description of culture and customs, but in the ambiguity of action and  character.  Both male and female figures are prominent, perspective is  varied, and sometimes good people die and malicious people prosper.  And  the main characters are not immune to tragedy.  There is a well-developed  mythology here, as well as history:  Both are original and inventive.   Magic and religion play a role, but neither are intrusive or overstated.   And, for once, the presence of dragons is believeable.<br />If you are a fan  of fantasy at its best, don't miss these!	1999-05-30
US	52832478	R2YKZA23YWLRHB	0812505182	465915454	The Magic of Recluce (Recluce series, Book 1)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	A bevy of original ideas balked by a halting storyline.	There was much about this book that I liked:  A unique world unlike any other in fantasy fiction; an original approach to magic and its presence.  However, at times I found his characterizations one dimensional, some of  the same appeared and disappeared with disconcerting precipitance, and the  plot line could shift just as abruptly.  And, overall, there was a  dissatisfying lack of closure  and discontinuity to much of the story.  I  won't say this is the last book I will read of the &quot;Recluse&quot;  series - the book did have moments of genuine interest - but I will wait  until nothing of greater interest is on the reading horizon.	1999-05-30
US	52832478	R22HHGNKDZJE81	1562057995	521707049	Inside Lightwave 3D	Books	3	0	0	N	Y	Not for the beginner!	While this book came highly recommended, I am in a class in which we are  using both the text and the tutorials, and all are encountering frustration  with the tutorials, which contain errors and gaps, or appear to presume  prior experience with LightWave.  Why can't more tech writers learn from  Adobe's &quot;Classroom in a Book&quot; series?	1998-10-04
