US	52833543	R3PDNT32X0UB31	1594200203	809431414	The Right Nation: Conservative Power in America	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Superb: The Best Nonfiction Book of 2004	Liberal Democrats still wondering just what hit them in the last election should be encouraged to read this book. The two authors, both of whom are British ex-pats on the U.S. staff of the Economist, have written a superb narrative on the rise of modern American conservativism. They trace its development from a fringe movement in the fifties that began as little more than a fascination with eccentric figures like Ayn Rand, Russell Kirk, and Friedrich Hayek, to its blossoming into the mainstream power of the religious right and tax-cut enthusiasts of today. They show the movement was not just some spontaneous manifestation of American political popular will, but primarily a manufactured political coalition galvanized by a nexus of right-wing think tanks, media, and political organizations, with the latter ranging from anti-tax advocates and the NRA to the religious right. While the book is not a how-to guide on building a winning political movement out of nothing, it provides enough details to show that not only is such an undertaking possible, it can succeed brilliantly. If liberals are curious as to why they lost to a weak conservative incumbent in 2004, one they felt sure they could unseat, they need look no further than this book. <br /> <br />Americans live in an era of conservative domination. Conservatives might still complain about the pervasiveness of liberals in the media and academic establishments, but their complaints mask that it is they now who are the real political establishment. The liberals are playing catch-up. How did this happen? As recently as the mid-sixties, liberalism reigned supreme. Conservatism in that era was, in the words of literary critic Lionel Trilling, little more than an impulse that expressed itself in \\"irritable mental gestures.\\" By the late sixties, however, conservatism was already winning political battles and, a decade later, it began winning the war over policy. <br /> <br />Conservatism's rise was helped by several factors. The first was demographic. As Americans moved both west and south, the Sunbelt became increasingly important to the nation's politics. It is easy to forget now that only a century ago Maine had more people than Texas and Rhode Island had more than Florida. With the shift in population, the south and west grew in national prominence. This can be seen in where the nation has picked its recent presidents. Not since the assassination of JFK forty-one years ago has a president called a state home which is outside of the Sun Belt. And as the epicenter of the nation's population drifted south and west, those two regions' local politics figured more prominently on the national level. In the west, those politics were anti-tax and anti-regulation. In the south, religious revivalism was at the center. <br /> <br />Another factor was liberalism -- both its successes and excesses. With the implementation of much of the civil rights agenda in the 1950s and 60s and the large-scale expansion of the federal government under LBJ, liberalism ran out of steam. The success of the civil rights movement led to a political revolt by the south, which the conservative movement took advantage of. Meanwhile, the expansion of the federal government was thought by some to be the main reason the U.S. economy sputtered under the impact of budget deficits, inflation, and high taxes in the 1970s. Many religious voters saw some of the Supreme Court decisions in the 60s and 70s as hostile to their beliefs. A group that would later be called the neoconservatives turned away from their leftist roots after experiencing the radicalism of the sixties. Out of these various responses to the successes and failures of liberalism, disparate conservative groups began to make political headway. <br /> <br />Yet another reason for the success of conservatism was its ability to articulate a national agenda. In the 1950s, National Review was the lonely voice of mainstream American conservatism. But over the next two decades, wealthy donors financed think tanks to battle the liberal-dominated universities. New conservative magazines and newspapers began to appear. Talk radio became the voice of the movement. The switch of numerous scholars from leftist causes to neoconservatism in the sixties amounted to an intellectual coup of sorts. These different media and scholars added cohesiveness to what was a motley crew of anti-liberal causes. <br /> <br />Micklethwait and Wooldridge don't merely detail the history of the movement. They also include their observations as to where they think it will go and what are the biggest dangers to its continued success. They believe that Republicans - as the party of conservatism -- have a narrow advantage over Democrats in the future. As one example, they present evidence that Hispanics -- America's fastest growing minority -- are far more attracted to the rhetoric of the right than are African-Americans . But they also point out that conservatism is inherently unstable because of its numerous, sometimes clashing, interest groups. The libertarian types sit uncomfortably with the religious types. The ethics of big business don't always mix well with the ethics of Middle America. Some conservatives in the west grow increasingly uncomfortable with the southern domination of the party. Micklethwait and Wooldridge demonstrate that while American politics is currently dominated by conservatives and might be dominated by them for some time, there is still much that can go wrong for the movement. <br /> <br />Americans wary of another European perspective on a peculiarly American phenomenon need not worry with this book. The authors obviously know their subject well. They spent a great deal of time on America's roads going to everything from evangelical church functions to right-wing scholarly seminars. The writing is incisive and smooth, moving easily and fluently across wide swaths of modern U.S. political history. But it never feels forced. Whilethe two Brits are clearly fascinated by a mainstream political philosophy they admit has no counterpart in Europe, they write sympathetically of its aims, even as they maintain a proper critical distance. This book can remind Americans that, whatever tensions might currently exist across the Atlantic, when intelligent, fair-minded Europeans focus their attention on the United States, there are no finer observers of its politics and society. This is the best book I've read this year.	2005-01-20
US	52833543	R2WEY45JDIC2AM	0609610627	301770056	Genghis Khan and the Making of the Modern World	Books	5	361	390	N	N	Simply the best book on Genghis Khan and his Empire	When Genghis Khan and his armies exploded out of the steppe in the early thirteenth century, no one on the Eurasian continent was prepared for his innovative style of warfare. Through years of what was essentially civil war, the Mongols of that period, as well as the surrounding tribes, had already refined various elements of shock warfare. But Temujin - Genghis Khan's birth name - added much to the Mongols' arsenal that was previously missing. He integrated surrounding tribes into his Mongol army; he ensured looting was strictly controlled and that shares of it were divided on a pre-assigned basis; he killed off the aristocracies of the tribes, cities, and empires he defeated, thereby ensuring they would not rally their people to turn on him at a later time; he organized his armies, and even his society, through a decimal system that smoothed the functioning of his eventual empire; he instituted laws that even he, a great khan, must obey. <br /> <br />What resulted from these innovations was unprecedented: an army with the same benefits of speed and maneuver that had always been a part of the traditional tactics of the tribes of the steppe melded together with an effective bureaucratic leadership that was very different from the typical kin-based and ad hoc tribal relationships. This was Temujin's creation, and he perfected it in numerous battles to unify Mongolia under his leadership. In 1206, two years after the final battle to assume control of all Mongolia, he took the name Genghis Khan, and prepared to take his army out into the world. <br /> <br />Jack Weatherford's remarkable narrative of these events captures the creativity of Genghis Khan and the Mongols in a way that no book I've read before ever has. Whereas most histories of the Mongols have long emphasized their unprecedented success in war, Weatherford builds a solid case that shows the social and economic achievements of the Mongols may have been even more remarkable than their adaptations to warfare. The author makes the argument that the Mongols were fairly civilized by the standards of the thirteenth century, almost never engaging in torture, mutilation, or maiming. While they were quick to kill, and left an unprecedented path of destruction in their path, especially to those who resisted their rule, conquest and loot were their goals, not gratuitous death and injury. <br /> <br />After making himself the undisputed ruler of the steppes, an area about the size of Western Europe, Genghis Khan began moving south and west, conquering the Jurched (Manchurian) tribes ruling Northern China and the kingdom of Khwarizm, an empire under the rule of a Turkic sultan that stretched from what is modern Afghanistan to the Black Sea. Khwarizm was an important catch, as the Muslims there were noted for their steel- and glass-making, as well as numerous exotic commodities. As each conquest was assimilated, Genghis Khan took what was special and distinctive about the place and employed it productively. Craftsmen, miners, artisans, interpreters, and specialists in warfare were all absorbed into the Mongol Empire and tasked according to their specialty. The Mongols were nomads, but the genius of Genghis Khan was to recognize the value of even the smallest and most foreign of civilized talents and to use it to his empire's advantage. <br /> <br />Genghis Khan died in 1227 - a mere sixteen years after he began his world conquest. With the exception of India and China, he had conquered everything he set his mind to. It would now be up to his sons and their children to finish what in the shortness of time he could not. (Genghis Khan dies about halfway through Weatherford's book, leaving plenty of space to write about the continued expansion of the empire.) Interestingly, the empire seems to have expanded more by the momentum of its founder's achievements, even after his death, than by the skill of his heirs. Genghis Khan had always been careful not to give his children too much power, as he sought to break away from the traditional kin-based ties of the steppe in order to more smoothly run his empire. In mediating disputes involving his sons, he sometimes took the side of non-kin against them. Until late in his life, he neglected their training as leaders. The consequences of this became immediately apparent in the actions of his son and first heir to the empire, Ogodei. <br /> <br />But, even with sub par and occasionally strife-ridden leadership, the empire continued to expand. Some of the Mongol leaders to follow Genghis Khan were exceptional leaders, while others were not, but the combination of unbeatable virtues in the empire was fixed in a way that it hardly mattered in the first few decades after his death. Nothing outside of the empire could stop it, only enduring struggles from within. As Weatherford details, even as the empire began to split into four quadrants, trade and other imperial activities continued. Two Mongol rulers from separate quadrants could be at war with each other and still allow trade and investments between the sides to continue unmolested. Eventually this relationship would break down, and when it did, it would spell the end of the empire. The Mongols did not create anything. They conquered and looted. And the trade routes needed to move their loot from one part of the empire to another were necessary to keep the empire strong. When those trade routes began to close down, and the economy contracted, the Mongol rulers in each area needed to depend on their local political skills to survive. Some did, but others never made the transition. <br /> <br />Weatherford's book is a marvel - the best of more than half-a-dozen histories I have read on the subject. Writing about the Mongols has always been a complex task for two seemingly contradictory reasons. On the one hand, their widespread empire requires a scholar to dig through a variety of source material written by those conquered by the Mongols, which many find daunting; on the other hand, the Mongols themselves were illiterate and secretive, and so their own literature was almost nonexistent and, when found, difficult to understand. Given these odd circumstances, histories on the Mongols are usually hit-and-miss affairs. Scholars tend to be great at explaining some part of the Mongols, but fail to maintain that quality in other areas. Weatherford's extensive experience in Mongolia, researching Genghis Khan and his empire, makes up for what he loses by not going to the source material outside of English; his accomplishment is a narrative of the highest order.	2005-01-16
US	52833543	R14KZBSZV0E8V5	0801879523	109047529	Tasmanian Tiger: The Tragic Tale of How the World Lost Its Most Mysterious Predator	Books	2	13	17	N	N	Dull book on an interesting creature	The last known living thylacine - the proper name for what is often popularly (and mistakenly) called the Tasmanian tiger - died in a Hobart city zoo in 1936. It was already an old beast, and the Great Depression had worsened its condition through neglectful care. Two months before it died, the Tasmanian parliament gave the species full protection - a delayed counter-response to earlier Tasmanian and Australian policies that for decades put a bounty on its head. But the change in policy came too late. In all the years since 1936, there has not been a single piece of solid evidence the species still exists. <br /> <br />Most experts guess that a few thylacines lived on in the wild for some years after the mid-30s before succumbing to the problems of low population numbers. But many Tasmanians, and a few experts, continue to believe the animal still survives in the wilds of Tasmania. There are a number of reasons for this. Thirty percent of the island is a wildlife preserve. There have been over a hundred reliable sightings of the animal in recent years. And the creatures were nocturnal and shy, even when populations were abundant. <br /> <br />If the thylacine does survive, it would be a remarkable story, for it was a remarkable beast. The largest marsupial predator in modern times, the thylacine took its popular name from the stripes that covered the back half of its elongated frame. Without those stripes, a thylacine would have had some resemblance to a long, skinny dog or wolf, except for two obvious features: its enormous jaw, which the thylacine was able to open to an angle of nearly ninety degrees, and its sloping back, which was somewhat similar to a hyena's (another dog-like creature that is not related to the canines). But whatever resemblance existed between thylacines and the family of canines was superficial -- a matter of convergent evolution, not relatedness. The thylacine was a marsupial, with its pups born and partially raised in a poach. <br /> <br />Most eyewitness accounts said thylacines were neither fast nor ambush predators. The creature's sloping gait, that so resembled a hyena's, was built for endurance not speed. A thylacine would give chase to its prey over long distances, tiring it out, before catching up with it and pinning it down with the enormous jaw and sharp teeth. The preferred prey seems to have been kangaroos, wallabies, wombats, and, a few years after the arrival of white settlers in 1803, sheep. The thylacine's taste for sheep, however, would end up spelling its doom as settlers - many of whom went to Tasmania to raise sheep - grew to hate the beast. <br /> <br />David Owen, a Tasmanian novelist, and the author of \\"Tasmanian Tiger\\", argues that the thylacine's reputation for eating sheep was probably undeserved or at least exaggerated. Feral dogs also inhabited Tasmania, and in some cases were known to attack and eat sheep. But whoever the culprit, the \\"tiger\\" - as the thylacine was known locally - was blamed by most Tasmanians and bounties were put on its head. As a result, by the early twentieth century, the writing was on the wall for the beast. From 1878 to 1896, more than 3,400 tiger skins were tanned and made into waistcoats. In 1902, 119 thylacines were presented for the bounty. In 1906, just 58. In 1909, the last year any tigers were presented for bounty, only two were given up. The population had been decimated. It was now only a matter of time. <br /> <br />Owen's book is fairly dry, considering the rich nature of the subject matter. David Quammen, in his \\"The Song of the Dodo\\", has a far more interesting section on the thylacine, filled with fascinating facts and a strong narrative, covering almost all the ground Owen does in much less space. Perhaps because he is a novelist, Owen has little new to add. He has read the necessary books and source material, but unlike Quammen, and many others who have studied thylacines, he has no scientific background or interest. Quammen put theextinction of the thylacine in perspective by showing its similarities to other extinctions elsewhere in the world; Owen simply portrays it as a sad story in the history of Tasmania. <br /> <br />Owen does add one interesting twist to the story by telling of the project to reconstruct a thylacine using the DNA from a dead fetus preserved in alcohol for several decades. Most scientists think it's an impossible scientific feat to pull off, but Owen interviews a couple of bright-eyed, true believers who think otherwise. The project has found sponsors and some small progress has been made. But with Australia still losing species, counter-arguments have been voiced that the money - which will run into the millions of dollars per thylacine, assuming they are ever successfully cloned - could be better spent saving creatures that still exist. <br /> <br />The same general argument can be made for the money spent on this book. \\"Tasmanian Tiger\\" is a dull study on an interesting subject. Owen is an experienced novelist, but you wouldn't know it from reading this book. The narrative never gets going. For a much better book, one with a superb section on thylacines, read David Quammen's \\"The Song of the Dodo: Island Biogeography in an Age of Extinctions.\\" <br />	2005-01-16
US	52833543	R1DG3MTX387QX4	0140286764	325390853	The Search for the Giant Squid: The Biology and Mythology of the World's Most Elusive Sea Creature	Books	3	2	3	N	N	An uninteresting search on a remarkable animal	I've always been fascinated by films and narratives of battles between nature's keystone species. A grizzly struggling to take down a moose in North America; a South American jaguar trying to uncoil an anaconda from his body; a pride of lions facing down a pack of hyenas over a kill in Kenya - there is something riveting to me about such animal clashes. One of the most epic battles in the animal kingdom - and certainly the largest* - is between the sperm whale and the giant squid. The sperm whale is the largest toothed whale in the world, with the biggest specimens measuring sixty feet long and weighing approximately 50 tons. The giant squid - known more precisely as architeuthis dux - is, at least in theory, a formidable foe to the sperm whale, which measures over 50 feet long and weighs over a ton.    One of the most surprising things for this reader about Richard Ellis' book is the discovery that what I thought might be an epic battle between two behemoths is almost certainly a very one-sided affair, with the sperm whale winning nearly every time. The giant squid is a large enough beast that it can prey on many fair-sized species of shark and probably has no other natural foes, but the sperm whale appears well-adapted to counter its size and strength. I say \\"appears,\\" because no one is really sure what to make of the battles between whale and squid - they have almost never been seen. Nearly everything about them has to be inferred from dead whales or dead squids.    Even more surprising, given the level of interest in the beast, is how little is known about the giant squid at all. Not until after the publication of this book was a healthy giant squid even observed in its natural habitat. But when Richard Ellis was working on his study, not a single specimen that was not either dead or dying had ever been seen or filmed. Almost everything known about these giants of the deep has to be studied through remains, usually found in the stomachs of dead and slaughtered sperm whales or, far less often, washed up on beaches around the world. So little is known about the giant squid that it presents a problem for this book. What happens when you throw a two-hundred page party and the guest of honor doesn't show up?    Ellis does his best to keep the reader's attention, but he's working with thin material. He writes a chapter on whether the giant squid is the mythical sea monster of old. He also includes large chapters on the literary and cinematic portrayals of the creature and on models built of it. Ellis seems to be doing everything he can to justify writing a two-hundred-and-fifty-page book for what probably only deserves a hundred and fifty pages. (Maybe he was getting paid by the word.)    Despite this paucity of solid knowledge on the squids, there are still some interesting details in the book. Sperm whales, for example, have been found with literally thousands of indigestible squid beaks in their stomachs. Not all of these belong to giant squids, but the number is impressive anyway. (Unbelievably, one sperm whale's stomach had 18 thousand squid beaks in it.) The book also goes into the wonderful variety of cephalopods. With more than seven hundred species, including numerous octopi, squids and cuttlefishes, the cephalopods represent one of the largest groups of animal mass in the world, thickly populating every known ocean. And the eye of the giant squid is huge, more than fifteen inches in diameter. There are numerous details like these in the book, making it worthwhile to read, despite its lack of concrete knowledge.    *****    * I read news reports last year that mesonychoteuthis hamiltoni - the Antarctic or colossal squid - is now considered by some scientists to be larger than the giant squid.  The book may also be dated in other ways, despite its relatively recent publication.	2005-01-16
US	52833543	R3R6NKOZFHS6NK	0028643232	219057327	Federal Reserve	Books	3	21	21	N	N	Touches on everything, but not deeply	This book goes into a tremendous amount of detail on several subjects I simply had no interest in. If you want to get a job at the Fed, for example, this book has an entire chapter dedicated to just that. How about developing our communities? Because the Federal Reserve Board is required by law to promote local economic development, there is a chapter on this as well. Would you like to know if we Americans are saving enough? No worries. Since the Federal Reserve helps member banks develop consumer education programs, there is a chapter on savings, too.    For the general reader, where this book is very helpful is in showing just how many responsibilities the Fed has. There are educational, regulatory, supervisory, as well as the more obvious monetary roles the Fed must play. It, of course, has a national role as America's central bank, but it also has a powerful international role that is less well-known. This book gives an abbreviated history of the institution and America's banking history, and it also has an entire chapter on the circumlocutory way Fed Chairmen express themselves in public (called \\"Fedspeak\\").    What the book is less helpful with is detail. Everything is discussed, but nothing is dealt with at even moderate length.	2005-01-16
US	52833543	R13XXDXFEGLU9E	0792265319	517589387	Mr. Jefferson's University (National Geographic Directions)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Jefferson's Academical Village	Thomas Jefferson's reputation in America has declined greatly over the last two decades. It is now commonplace, both among scholars and the reading public, to criticize Jefferson and place him on a lower mantle of historical accomplishment, along with several of his contemporaries. His friend, James Madison, whose reputation has long lived in the shadow of Jefferson's, is now widely considered to be the superior political thinker of the two. Former political opponents, such as John Adams and Alexander Hamilton, are now sometimes favorably compared to him. The ongoing controversy over Jefferson's affair with the slave Sally Hemings has also contributed to his reputation's decline. <br /> <br />But as an artist, Jefferson's historical reputation has only been strengthened in recent years. He is considered one of America's greatest architects, and his work at Monticello and the University of Virginia has been voted by modern architects as the premiere achievement in American architecture. Jefferson himself seems to have had some sense of the importance of this work when he requested his tombstone read: <br /> <br />HERE WAS BURIED <br /> <br />THOMAS JEFFERSON <br /> <br />AUTHOR OF THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE <br /> <br />OF THE STATUTE OF VIRGINIA <br /> <br />FOR RELIGIOUS FREEDOM <br /> <br />AND FATHER OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA <br /> <br />This is Garry Wills' third book on Jefferson. Wills wholeheartedly admires Jefferson's work as an architect. No one else in the Western tradition, Wills says, has ever combined the artistic and political talents of Jefferson. Unlike artist-politicians like Benjamin Disraeli, Jan Paderewski or Vclav Havel, who were primarily artists before becoming politicians, Jefferson worked at both his entire life. According to Wills, the Virginian was no mere dilettante dabbling at design, but an experienced, masterful innovator of forms. He worked on his first university design project in his mid-twenties, a few years before writing the Declaration of Independence. While serving as president, he helped Benjamin Latrobe design the federal city. And he would cap off his long life with his finest work, the \\"academical village\\" - the University of Virginia in Charlottesville, the subject of this work. <br /> <br />It took Jefferson nine years to complete his masterpiece. From the age of seventy-four to eighty-three, the design and building of the university dominated the final years of his life. He would die soon after it was completed.  To do so, Jefferson had to outmaneuver the extremely hostile Virginia legislature to acquire the state money to finance his project; he also had to face down religious interests -- who were concerned about his decision to build a secular school; and he outlasted several local powers - particularly fellow builders and other state-financed universities - who sought to undermine his efforts in order to satisfy their own interests. Jefferson's local political struggles to build his university actually take up more of the book than details about its design. <br /> <br />Jefferson wanted to build a university that embodied his ideas on what learning should be about. Where universities in Europe at that time had primarily been either urban or monastic in appearance, Jefferson followed an American pattern by designing a rural university, built around a lawn. Ten unique Pavilions -- to represent Jefferson's ten important branches of learning -- would be built on the east and west sides of the lawn, five on each side. To the north of the lawn was the centerpiece of the university - a large Rotunda that would serve both as the university's library and for communal activities. Nothing was built on the south of the lawn to allow for an easy approach to the school and an open vista for those on the lawn. <br /> <br />Connecting the Pavilions and Rotunda was a Tuscan colonnade. The colonnade was blended in with the front of each of the ten Pavilions, a difficult design trick since each Pavilion had a unique style with -- depending on the Pavilion -- Doric, Ionic, Corinthian, and composite columns that had to work visually with the Tuscan style of the colonnade that connected them all. The Pavilions were two-story buildings. The first story served as the classroom. The second story was the professor's home. Jefferson did not want any of the Pavilions to be considered superior to the others so he had the professors draw lots for who would live and teach in each Pavilion. The colonnade also had a two-story function. On ground level, it was covered, allowing for students to walk between Pavilions in any weather. The colonnade's second level, however, which connected the professors' homes on the second story of each pavilion, was not covered. This was meant to symbolize the connection Jefferson wanted the ten disciplines to have with each other. Professors could get together and exchange ideas, but the lack of a covered walkway meant that such exchanges would be informal and unscheduled, unlike the more regimented programs of the students walking below. <br /> <br />The effect of this design was striking and somewhat paradoxical. There is both regimentation and individualism in the work. Wills says that some critics seize on some single aspect of the design and complain that it is either too orderly or too chaotic. But Jefferson wanted both elements to express his ideas about education. Echoing Ruskin's comments about the cathedral front at Pisa, Wills writes that Jefferson achieved \\"a daring variation of pretended symmetry\\" that escaped \\"the lower or vulgar unity of law.\\" <br /> <br />One of the more interesting sidelines in the book is Wills' discussion of the Bishop George Berkeley, the famous eighteenth century empiricist who was the transitional philosopher between Locke and Hume. Berkeley, who at the time was still just a parson, wanted to build a school in North America. He spent time at Yale, where a residential college was named after him. (One of the graduates of that college would later found U.C. Berkeley in California in honor of the bishop.) But Berkeley did not want to build his school in any of the colonies. He decided that Bermuda was a more appropriate location since there it would not be subject to the provincialism of the colonies, and he could allow Native Americans to attend. He believed that knowledge needed a fresh start away from the prejudices of the cities and society and that only a school built in nature could achieve this. Like Jefferson at a later time, Berkeley would struggle to find funds to build his school. But where Jefferson persevered, Berkeley would eventually give up and return to England. Nevertheless, his ideas about university design in the new world would affect many later American designers, and Jefferson was obviously influenced by him. <br /> <br />Also interesting is Wills' history of how the original professors - most of whom were Europeans -- would struggle with their new lives in the new world. Jefferson had originally not wanted Europeans to teach at his school, fearing they would contaminate American students with their alien ideas. But he been forced to recruit there after qualified Americans had either turned him down or been rejected by the state legislature for their unorthodox views. Universities in the early United States were largely state affairs, especially in the south. Jefferson had pushed for the founding of University of Virginia to create a regional alternative to Harvard, Princeton, and Yale in the north. But now he had been forced to leave not only the south, but even the U.S., in order to find teachers to fill the new positions. The result, however, appears to have ended up harming the professors more than it did the local students. Since most students were the progeny of local Virginian plantation owners, and were used to slaves and owning guns, the professors didn't quite know what to make of them. As Wills puts it, \\"slave owners were used to giving, not taking orders.\\" The students didn't like their foreign teachers for the most part, taunting them and throwing rocks through one professor's windows. Some professors attempted to resign after being terrorized by masked students (their resignations were not accepted). Stricter rules were implemented and some students were expelled. But the problems continued. The south's tradition of violence didn't help either, as undergraduates often challenged each other to duels, despite the best efforts of the faculty to prevent them. Professors were sometimes caned by students and began to arm themselves in self-defense. Fourteen years after Jefferson's death, one professor was shot and killed after stepping outside of his Pavilion to quell a disturbance. <br /> <br />This is a wonderful book, interesting both as a history of the early U.S. architecture and as a partial biography of a Founding Father. Jefferson's will to see through his masterpiece forms the core of the story, but the many interesting details on various subjects also delight. While Jefferson's genius as an architect is more taken for granted than demonstrated, Wills does show that Jefferson had a tremendous artistic vision and fire to see his project to completion.	2005-01-16
US	52833543	R38E40ORAHTG81	189355483X	426057511	Losing the New China: A Story of American Commerce, Desire, and Betrayal	Books	4	27	34	N	N	Uncovering the "New China"	There is a conventional wisdom about China's modernization that covers a surprisingly wide range of American opinion. In U.S. business, government, and academic circles, the prevailing view is that China's current direction of market liberalization is the surest way to a more democratic future for the country. Chinese leaders might be nominally Communist, but their decision to open China up to the world will eventually undermine their authority. While challenges to this conventional wisdom have occasionally been broached -- particularly by some U.S. elected officials -- they have never gained the critical mass to effectively change the direction of U.S. policy. <br /> <br />An important reason for this stability in the Sino-American relationship has been due to the efforts of U.S. corporations. American businessmen have been the bedrock of American support for greater openness towards China. When crises between China and the U.S. have erupted - Tiananmen, the U.S. bombing of the Chinese embassy in Yugoslavia, the spy plane incident - it was usually U.S. corporations that were at the forefront of keeping the relationship stable. As Ethan Gutmann points out in his book \\"Losing the New China\\", businesses in China even evolved rote, but effective responses to concerns about China's human rights' problems - the most important of which is that \\"American business is the long-term catalyst for better human rights in China.\\" <br /> <br />What makes Gutmann's book so effective in exposing the emptiness of this claim is that he was once a true believer in it. Only while living at the margins of the business world in Beijing for two years, and witnessing the cynical uses of this self-serving rhetoric by businesses in China, and how often it was a mere cover for business deals that actually strengthened the Communist party's hold over the country, did he begin to realize \\"China was moving in a strikingly different direction\\" than he earlier imagined. <br /> <br />Gutmann's two years in China were eventful. He arrived in time to witness the reaction to the U.S. bombing of China's embassy in Yugoslavia. He made connections easily, dealing with a wide range of people, including what appears to have been a Chinese intelligence agent. He met many of the most important ex-pats in Beijing. As a result, his book has more depth than a reader would expect from the limited time he spent in the country. <br /> <br />The centerpiece of the book is a long chapter on China's policies to control the internet. Gutmann details how the conventional wisdom that Beijing cannot control the forces of online is simply untrue. Not only can the Chinese government maintain a surprisingly effective control over the net, but it is showing an ability to increase that control over time. Search engines, online media sources, and even the computer code used by major multinationals are all manipulated to ensure the internet is sanitized for Chinese web-surfers. That China actively tries to control online content to its citizens is hardly surprising, but what will probably shock most readers is the degree to which U.S. and European corporations are complicit in Beijing's control. Gutmann is no wild-eyed anti-capitalist protestor. He went to China to make a movie and, with any luck, some money; he obviously enjoyed hanging out with businessmen in China - they seem to have been his preferred company; he worked closely with the American Chamber of Commerce for a spell. But even he is shocked at the degree to which Western companies have cooperated with the Chinese government to make the internet a state vehicle for oppression. <br /> <br />Gutmann also touches on other issues: China's military modernization, the surprising fact that almost all U.S. businesses in China lose money, and the way some Westerners sell out to China's government by accepting the party line. These are good write-ups, but with the exception of the chapter on the internet, Gutmann is at his best when talking about the people he meets. A young man who visits Beijing, looking for work, and discovers a sexual paradise, is one example of this. Never that successful with women in the states, the twenty-six year old posted on an internet dating service that he was a foreigner and was immediately deluged with e-mails from Chinese women as far away as Chongking. Thus he began a sexual odyssey - one-night stands, a mnage  trois, and even an orgy followed. In one particularly wild night, he was invited to participate along with three other men and ten Chinese women in group sex. The host was accustomed to such parties. Viagra and condoms were handed out like small treats. Despite all this, the young man remembers his time in Beijing as a period of loneliness. <br /> <br />Gutmann sees the young man's series of sexual escapades as a sort of metaphor for what China does to Americans: it seduces them into letting down their defenses. The young man agrees: \\"Rex [the young man] points to a Xinhua report from July 2002 that the owners, bouncers and call girls of Sanlitun Bar Street have set up a new branch of the Communist Party. The Party was already letting capitalists in, but the inclusion of sex workers who specifically cater to foreigners raises a question: Why does the Chinese government allow foreigners such freedom? The Chinese conceive of Americans as barbarians - oversexed, easily corrupted fools. Seduction softens them up. Sex is good for business, Rex says, and good for China.\\" <br /> <br />To close followers of China, Gutmann's account will probably hold few surprises. But his book has an entertaining sass to it, including numerous self-deprecating comments, some of which closely border on the self-loathing. He finds it necessary to write about a few near-sexual encounters he had with Chinese women (some of which he initiated), after his wife returned to the states early. How this went down on the home front, he neglects to mention.	2005-01-16
US	52833543	R1LHHEUDVFQWIO	0805069496	740614083	Ulysses S. Grant: The American Presidents Series: The 18th President, 1869-1877	Books	5	21	24	N	N	Superb -- the best of the series	Unlike his generalship during the Civil War, Grant's presidency has earned him few admirers among historians. The numerous scandals that took place during his two terms in office, and the Panic of 1873 which wrecked havoc on the country's economy during his second term, have generally diminished history's view of Grant's presidency. His consistently strong stewardship of the difficult task of Reconstruction, including his upholding of the laws which enabled Blacks to vote and hold office in the south, his successful foreign policy, and his fair treatment of Native Americans were often neglected. An historical consensus formed that split Grant's life into halves; General Grant was a heroic and needed leader, but President Grant was an admirable failure, unsuited for political leadership. <br /> <br />Josiah Bunting III is the perfect author to correct these misperceptions about Grant. As a former army officer, Bunting understands well the institution that was so much a part of Grant's adult life and the source for his fame which would catapult him into the White House. But he also has enough emotional distance from the army to provide insightful commentary. What's most surprising, however, is the literary skill Bunting brings to the task. His small book on Grant is a beautiful gem of a biography, burnished to a fine work of art. Bunting has written two novels and he shows a fine writer's gifts here. He has the great biographer's necessary gift of understanding the importance of character. <br /> <br />The Grant that comes alive in Bunting's pages is highly sympathetic, but always credibly so. Bunting shows how the usual slurs against Grant's character (alcohol, butchery, and scandal) were overdone, while many redeeming characteristics (good to friends and family, steady, moral) were overlooked. Bunting reevaluates the character of Grant in this more favorable light and recreates a president who won two elections by landslides and never was out of favor with the general public. <br /> <br />Bunting's defense of Grant succeeds splendidly. I've read all sixteen of these small biographies published so far in \\"The American Presidents\\" series, and while I've found all of them good, and many quite excellent, this one on Grant is the best. It belongs on the shelf of every reader interested in American history. <br />	2005-01-16
US	52833543	R1VE2OBR7DKMWT	1400042372	262455471	Power, Terror, Peace, and War: America's Grand Strategy in a World at Risk	Books	2	6	10	N	N	Falls Well Short of His Previous Work	Walter Russell Mead had the unfortunate timing to publish one of the best new books on U.S. foreign relations just as 9/11 changed the American security landscape forever. His remarkable \\"Special Providence: American Foreign Policy and how it changed the World\\" hit bookstands around the country within weeks of Al Qaeda's attack. The work, which was part revisionist history and part typology of U.S. foreign policy traditions, had everything going for it except one thing: it called for an American global pullback, and cautioned against international overreaching, just as 9/11 ensured the U.S. would be extending itself around the world with a vengeance. What's a talented foreign policy specialist to do? Why not write another book? <br /> <br />The result is something of a disappointment. \\"Power, Terror, Peace, and War: America's Grand Strategy in a World at Risk\\" feels rushed and light. Weighing in at just over 200 pages, and with no bibliography, the book is thin in both original thinking and scholarship. Mead obviously felt he had to say something about 9/11 without delay. He should have taken his time. Where \\"Special Providence\\" had much that was useful and interesting, even after events had overtaken its conclusion, this book is likely to sink out of view without a whimper. Comparing the two books is an object lesson to authors who believe that topicality is of primary importance to the quality of their book. <br /> <br />A problem of Mead's that was not apparent in reading just one of his books, but which appears with more clarity after reading two of them, is his addiction to classification systems. His four part typology of American foreign policy -- Jeffersonians, Hamiltonians, Wilsonians, and Jacksonians -- is the centerpiece of \\"Special Providence.\\" In \\"Power, Terror, Peace, and War\\", he comes up with a three-part division of sharp power (military), sticky power (economic), and sweet power (cultural), because he apparently wasn't satisfied with the traditional dichotomy of hard and soft power. He also speaks of Fordism and millennial capitalism, hegemonic power and harmonic convergence, and he reprises his classification of Jeffersonians, Hamiltonians, Wilsonians, and Jacksonians from the previous book. Not all of these terms are Mead's creations, but most of them are, and the result is the book has a strained quality to it. Even informed readers might feel a little at sea when contemplating ideas such as whether revivalist Hamiltonians' post-Fordist strategy of sticky power helps America's harmonic convergence.  (Mead doesn't actually say that word for word, but it sometimes feels like he wants to.) <br /> <br />Despite this compulsive desire to come up with neologisms, Mead says very little that is interesting or new. In \\"Special Providence\\", he changed the way I thought about U.S. foreign policy in the nineteenth century. This book, on the other hand, is instantly forgettable. Mead makes general comments on economics that are weakly supported (how does Mead know whether millennial capitalism is here to stay?) and throwaway remarks on current events which were already dated by the time the book was published. Rather than waste your time with this work, I recommend reading his \\"Special Providence\\", a superior book in every way.	2005-01-16
US	52833543	R3GNWOINJMRX7E	0804725292	526314705	Great White Shark	Books	5	30	31	N	N	A Great Book on the Great White	One of the most refreshing things about this wonderful book on great white sharks is its unfashionable lack of sentimentality. Ever since the popularity of the movie \\"Jaws,\\" shark experts have felt obligated to point out to the general public that great whites do not prey on people with any frequency, and that sharks have far more to fear from people than people do from sharks. There are perhaps only a hundred shark attacks on humans recorded every year, with just thirty of those fatal. What's more, these same experts often also claim that many shark attacks may be just a case of mistaken identity -- the shark presumably ripping into what it thinks is a seal or turtle only to discover a foul-tasting diver or surfer, and letting go. There is just enough evidence to make this theory plausible. <br /> <br />Both Richard Ellis and John McCosker are clearly sympathetic to sharks, and they do not sensationalize their subject. But they are also dedicated scientists who want to introduce what is known about the shark to the general public; they realize that the allure and interest surrounding the largest and most famous shark of all - the great white -- is precisely because it is dangerous. There are bigger sharks (whale shark, basking shark). There are bigger predators (sperm whale, killer whale). But there are no larger predators known to initiate unprovoked attacks on humans. Killer whales have never been known to attack humans in the wild. Sperm whales only attack men if they are attacked first. But a handful of species of sharks - the most infamous of which is the great white - will attack and, on rare occasions, eat people. This capability inspires both man's fear and interest in the creature <br /> <br />An incident in Australia (and described in this book) illustrates the potential horror of such attacks. In 1985, in southern Australia, a 33-year-old mother of four, Shirley Durdin, was snorkeling in seven feet of water with two companions, one of whom was her husband. They had been diving in the bay for scallops, when they decided to head to shore. At that moment, a 20-foot white pointer (the great white shark's name in Australia) suddenly attacked Durdin and, in a vicious froth of blood and foam, she was bitten in half. By the time the boats from shore were launched by fishermen trying to rescue her, all they could see was her headless torso, which the shark came back up to snatch and make off with as they watched. It was first confirmed attack in Australia where the great white actually could be seen eating its victim. <br /> <br />This is not just a book about great white shark attacks (although those attacks are comprehensively covered in a very long chapter). Anything you could possibly want to know about the great white is here - morphology, biology, its known habitat, prey, fishing for great whites, the great white in captivity, and its place in literature and cinema. As a result, interesting details abound on all facets of the shark. The largest great white shark ever caught, for example, is probably no longer than 23 feet and most likely no longer than 21 feet. Numerous accounts to the contrary -- including one great white reported to be 36 feet long -- are almost certainly exaggerated accounts, mistaken measurements, or complete fiction. Some researchers believe the great white is oophagous, meaning that baby great whites in the mother's uterus eat each other until only the stronger survive. When born, they measure an astounding four feet long. When fully grown, female great whites sharks are larger than males. More great white shark attacks have been recorded in the central California section between Monterey Bay and just north of San Francisco than anywhere else in the world, including Australia. Great whites can be found in nearly all types of coastal waters, except extreme tropical and extreme artic seas. Finally, they are the only sharks known to attack boats. <br /> <br />Like all of Ellis's work, this is a very well-written book. Just as Ellis is likely to refer to \\"Moby Dick\\", when writing about sperm whales, and \\"Twenty Thousand Leagues under the Sea\\", when writing about giant squids, so he discusses American artist John Singleton Copley's \\"Watson and the Shark\\" and Winslow Homer's \\"Gulf Stream\\" when writing about the great white shark. (Ellis's says that the shark in Copley's painting is definitely not a great white.) He also goes over the plot in \\"Jaws\\", pointing out that while the plot is exciting, the science in the story is lacking and the resulting popularity of the film was devastating for the shark. This detailed look at the most fascinating of predators makes for a marvelous book, the best of the nearly dozen on sharks I've read.	2005-01-16
US	52833543	R36QK6LXPOVZO3	1400040310	845366857	His Excellency: George Washington	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Great Man Possessed of Self-control	George Washington has something of an image problem. Of all the Founding Fathers, modern audiences tend to find him the least accessible. Alexander Hamilton, Thomas Jefferson, Benjamin Franklin, John Adams, James Madison, John Marshall, and even lesser lights such as Gouverneur Morris and John Jay have their modern-day advocates and fans. But considering both Washington's oversized accomplishments and unequaled status during the Revolutionary Era, his present popularity is relatively mild. Few people seem interested in the man who, all his peers agreed, stood head and shoulders above the most talented political generation in American history. It's hard to imagine, for example, a new biography on Washington selling as well as two recent biographies on Hamilton and Adams have sold. <br /> <br />Part of the problem was Washington's temperament. As Joseph Ellis explains in his new biography of the general and president, Washington spent most of his life struggling to control himself. This control was necessary, Ellis claims, for Washington was a man of powerful emotions. Alexander Hamilton, who worked on Washington's staff during several years of the Revolutionary War, was known to later remark that the general, though possessed of a cool faade, was a man with an explosive, almost violent temper in private. Ellis writes, \\"[s]ome models of self-control are able to achieve their serenity easily, because the soul-fires never burned brightly to begin with. Washington became the most notorious model of self-control in all of American history, the original marble man, but he achieved this posture - and it was a posture - the same hard-earned way he learned soldiering, by direct experience with difficulty.... Appearances aside, he was an intensely passionate man, whose powers of self-control eventually became massive because of the interior urges they were required to master.\\" <br /> <br />Ellis points to several key moments in Washington's life when he would side-step what he wanted to do in order to accomplish some greater personal or national aim: marrying Martha Dandridge Custis and acquiring her property rather than pursuing his true love, Sally Fairfax; breaking away from plantation farming to diversify his crops, so that he would no longer be dependent on British merchants (even though such dependence was typical for most Virginia planters, and extremely difficult to break out of); using Fabian tactics to avoid fighting the British, rather than his preferred method of engaging them directly; freeing his slaves in his final will and testament, despite the large difficulties this entailed. <br /> <br />All these incidents would be largely meaningless if they did not correspond to the most remarkable event in Washington's life and probably the most important non-event in America's early history: Washington's refusal to take up the monarchical standard after the British were forced to quit the war. In 1783, members of the Continental Army - loyal to Washington -- were unhappy because the Confederation Congress had not paid them what they were owed; the new federal government was weak; and Washington had what Ellis describes as a \\"transcendent stature\\" in the young country. This combination gave the general a large opportunity to make himself a king. Countless other revolutionary leaders had done so in similar circumstances. But Washington refused the temptation, even when the so-called Newburgh Conspiracy opened an avenue for him to attempt such a move. As Ellis explains of Washington's famous speech to the disgruntled officers, when he would quell their potential rebellion by distancing himself from their declared need for action, \\"whereas Cromwell and later Napoleon made themselves synonymous with the revolution in order to justify the assumption of dictatorial power, Washington made himself synonymous with the American Revolution in order to declare that it was incompatible with dictatorial power.\\" <br /> <br />Here was the legendary Cincinnatus. In a massive act of self-control, Washington decided he would return to Mount Vernon rather than take up the mantle of king or emperor. What makes the general's decision even more remarkable is that at the time he believed in the need for a strong federal government and a standing army, and often said so. One reason Hamilton and he were in such congruence for the need of a strong central government, both then and later, had been their shared difficulties with a weak Congress during the Revolutionary War. They both came to see -- in a way Jefferson, who had not served, did not - that the young republic needed a strong overseer to the states, if it was to survive. But even believing this as passionately as he did, Washington would not take the mantle of power by force. It would be his finest gift to the country, far greater than any of his military and, later, political contributions, as outstanding as many of those were. <br /> <br />But it was a non-action that, in hindsight, looks more inevitable than it actually was, and for this reason isn't as appreciated as it should be. Washington's need for self-control made it possible, but that same self-control is a large reason why he does not have the popularity other Founding Fathers have today. He is distant and remote, both then and now. Hamilton's wife found him a cold dance partner, complaining that he went dutifully through the steps and retired from the floor with few words. Others said that he was the most comfortable man in silence they ever met. Gouverneur Morris, in what Ellis calls the most insightful comments on Washington, would say he was a man of tumultuous passions, and that there was a connection between his grip on himself and his understanding of the dynamics of power. Gilbert Stuart, who studied Washington closely as he painted his portrait, saw a similar control: \\"Had he been born in the forests, he would have been the fiercest man among savage tribes.\\" <br /> <br />Joseph Ellis's fine work illuminates a man the present day is in danger of losing. Of all the Founding Fathers, Washington is the most difficult to understand. Unlike a Hamilton or Adams, he did not wear his heart on his sleeve. Unlike a Jefferson, he did not leave a large paper trail to throw light on an obscure public figure. Unlike a Franklin, he was not a natural wit and bon vivant. While the Parson Weems' story where a young Washington admits to his father that he chopped down the cherry tree is a fabrication, it is easy to see why many people could believe it. Washington's solidity is granite-like and simple morality tales go well with that solidity. It is only on closer inspection that the human cracks in that granite become visible and something more interesting -- because more human -- begins to emerge.	2005-01-16
US	52833543	R7USOIJJ4VB7I	0060542705	398603551	A Term at the Fed: An Insider's View	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Informative and Funny	This is a wonderful book -- well-written, funny, and intelligent. Laurence Meyer served as one of the governors of the seven-member Federal Reserve Board, all of whom are appointed by the U.S. president. While Meyer was selected by Clinton and appears to be a Democrat, he was known as an inflation hawk, and was reputed to have clashed with Chairman Greenspan -- something Meyer denies in this book.     <br /> <br />Meyer served on the board from 1996 to 2002, during the rapid rise and nearly-as-rapid fall of the U.S. stock market, and a period in which numerous international financial crises (Asia, Russia, LTCM, 9/11) took place.  This is a unique look at the inner workings of the Fed and can be enjoyed by the general reader.	2005-01-16
US	52833543	R2UAYRE1BV1LH1	0767905342	421292455	Wealth and Democracy: A Political History of the American Rich	Books	2	20	63	N	N	How Kevin Phillips learned to Relax and Love the Depression	Somewhere in the middle of this book, I realized Kevin Phillips must be putting his readers on. In what is mainly a history of how wealth and politics have coexisted in the U.S., often for the benefit of both the wealthy and political classes, Phillips stops searching for any intellectual coherency to his argument and just goes on the attack. His opponents are the wealthy, of course, and he stops at almost nothing to smear them. <br />  <br /> Which is too bad. Phillips? subject -- wealth inequality and its effect on the democratic process -- is a serious one, and he does start off promisingly. Unfortunately, he suffers from the problem of too many advocates -- an inability to simply make a good case and let it stand, when exaggerated overkill feels so much better. It's not enough to argue, for example, that the rich ought to pay somewhat higher taxes and that globalization has gone a little too far, when you can insinuate that the wealthy are selling the country down the river, America is in serious decline, and that much of the modern economics profession is providing intellectual cover for the rich. <br />  <br /> Phillips' exaggerated approach naturally leads to some contradictions. On the one hand, he wants to argue that the stock market-driven wealth of the 1920s and the 1990s, were ephemeral and unreal. On the other hand, he wants to argue that this ephemeral and unreal wealth went only to the rich and not to the middle class and poor, and that it exacerbated wealth inequality. But if the gains in the stock market were unreal (paper gains), then surely the wealth inequality those gains bolstered were also unreal. <br />  <br /> Phillips' obsession with how well the wealthy are doing leads him into even stranger positions. He actually seems to enjoy the leveling effect of the Great Depression. After he misleadingly shows how much incomes went up between 1933 and 1949 (misleading, because almost all the rise in that period occurred after America's entrance intoWW2), he writes, &quot;[t]he relative (short-term) loser of the 1930s and 1940s was wealth...&quot; To which I think the proper response is: yes, the wealthy lost, and so did almost all other Americans. It's hard to be romantic about an economy with steady double-digit unemployment rates in the first half which take a world war in the second half to fix, but Phillips seems to long for that period. <br />  <br /> He also belongs to the declinist school of American politics, seeing parallels between the present-day U.S. and other leading economic powers as they faltered. He mentions only briefly that neither late-seventeenth-century Netherlands nor early-twentieth-century Britain had anywhere near the technological advantages in so many areas that present-day America has. Instead, Phillips? catalogue of America?s current problems is so large the reader can begin to understand, even if not agree, with why he seems to long for another depression. He makes the 1990s sound worse in some ways than a depression. <br />  <br /> The only problem for Phillips is that many readers of his book have lived through the most recent decade, and not many of them would probably be willing to agree that the solution to whatever problems existed in that decade requires something as drastic as what happened during the 1930s. Phillips?s pessimism about the U.S. runs deep, and his understanding and judgment of what the U.S. needs is faulty as a result. His great concern for America's problems of inequality, some of which are real, allows him to manufacture many which are not. In the end, I found the book?s primary redeeming feature was largely trivial: its wealth of charts and information identifying the wealthy at any one period in American history.	2004-07-23
US	52833543	R1156RFFDXWLVC	0805069461	176251654	James Buchanan: The American Presidents Series: The 15th President, 1857-1861	Books	4	2	6	N	N	Competent and Well-written Addition to the Series	This book has been unfairly maligned by some reviewers here.  Jean Baker has written a readable and competent biography of someone who is generally considered one of the worst presidents, if not the worst president, in American history.  \\"The American Presidents\\" series was not created to highlight original historical works, but to provide a brief and lucid overview that could pass scholarly muster of each of the U.S. presidents .  Baker has done this job well.  <br />Some might complain that she failed to footnote her work thoroughly or with reference to primary source material.  But several of the biographies in this series are not footnoted at all.  Indeed, many of the books are not even written by professional historians.<br />Some might complain Baker doesn't have the background to write a biography of Buchanan.  But she has already written one well-reviewed biography of someone who was Buchanan's contemporary.  Furthermore, she has published other historical works on America's mid-nineteenth century.  She is obviously very familiar with the period.  What else is needed?<br />Some might complain that she carried an animus into her writing.  If so, I didn't see it.  Sometimes a bad president is a bad president.  While Baker might have provoked some thought with a revisionist biography of Buchanan for this series, her line on Buchanan is well within the historical consensus of a man who is usually at the very bottom of presidential rankings.<br />I've read better biographies in \\"The American Presidents\\" series, but frankly I was surprised to see a mere two stars for this book.  It deserves better.	2004-07-04
US	52833543	ROIUDOQ67LI3J	159420019X	240296592	The Americanization of Benjamin Franklin	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Scholarly Biography that Gets Behind the Franklin Myths	Benjamin Franklin is often considered the quintessential American.  A recent best-selling biography of Franklin is entitled \\"The First American,\\" and many other biographers have also played up the Americanness of his life.  His story is a familiar one to most Americans.  Franklin overcame his lowly beginnings through a combination of street smarts and hard work.  He was intelligent without being theoretical.  He was a social joiner but also wary of traditional class distinctions.  Because of this, he seemed to typify what many modern Americans feel is most distinctive about their nation.<br />Historian Gordon S. Wood splashes cold water on these common assumptions of Franklin's life.  Wood shows that in many ways Franklin was not typical of his fellow Americans at all.  Once he made himself a success, for example, he stopped working and began to imitate a gentleman.  After Franklin moved to Europe and got a taste of the civilized life, it was difficult for him to break away from it and return to America.  He often misjudged the opinion of his fellow Americans, sometimes leading too far in front of them and sometimes following too far behind.  As a result, he was far more popular in Europe than he was in his home land.  After his death, the public grieving in the U.S. was mild compared to that of other revolutionary leaders.<br />Wood's book is largely a conventional biography that is distinctive from other Franklin biographies only in its interpretation.  Wood sees the Sage of Philadelphia as a proto-American, someone who became American only in retrospect as more and more nineteenth-century Americans began to lead lives similar to Franklin's.  Like him, they worked in the trades and strove for social respectability and financial success while also maintaining a working class identity.  As these self-made men began to predominate, Franklin's life became a model for them, and the popularity among Americans that he never saw in his lifetime became his.	2004-07-04
US	52833543	R3FUBK3R652I5A	0805069518	983760132	Chester Alan Arthur: The American Presidents Series: The 21st President, 1881-1885	Books	4	1	6	N	N	Interesting Read, despite Arthur's lack of Importance	Even among the many obscure U.S. presidents of the nineteenth century, Chester Alan Arthur is a forgotten man.  His assumption to the presidency was unforeseen and unwanted; his achievements during his term were unremarkable; once that term was over, he graciously and quietly left politics, and died soon afterwards.  If he is remembered at all today, it is usually as an unexpected supporter of civil service reform.<br />Zachary Karabell doesn't challenge the conventional wisdom on Arthur's presidency; he doesn't -- unlike some biographers in this \\"The American Presidents\\" series -- try to convince the reader that Arthur was a good or important president.  Instead, Karabell seeks to place Arthur in the context of his times and show that -- all things taken into consideration - he was the right man for the presidency.<br />Arthur's pre-presidential life is fascinating.  In many ways he was involved with the late nineteenth century's key political concerns before he ever entered politics.  He was the collector of the New York Customhouse throughout most of the 1870s, when it took in a great deal of the federal government's revenue, and when its staff was often criticized for its recruitment policies and collection habits.  As a socially-connected New Yorker, he befriended many of the most powerful politicians in the country, including New York Senator Roscoe Conkling.<br />While controversy was not unknown to Arthur at this point, most agree he handled himself with character and restraint.  These qualities, along with his affiliation with the Stalwarts, helped make him an acceptable vice presidential candidate for James Garfield -- even though Arthur's political experience was limited.<br />After a tight election, Arthur was ready to settle down into a position of little importance.  Vice presidents did almost nothing in the nineteenth century, and Arthur had no reason to expect his tenure would be any different.  Only after Garfield was shot and injured with a wound that would eventually kill him, did it occur to anyone -- including the vice president -- that Arthur was a heartbeat away from the presidency.  What made it worse was that Garfield's assassin wanted Arthur to be president.<br />Despite his immense grief over Garfield's death, Arthur's fine personal qualities made the transition easier than it might have been.  He was not an ambitious man and his gentlemanly dignity in the days and months after Garfield's death helped to set the tone for the rest of his presidency.  Rarely did he make headlines, and when he did, he often did so to the detriment of his political future by avoiding strong partisan stands.  To the surprise of some in his Republican faction, he came out in support of civil service reform.  On immigration and Indian affairs, he was more liberal than most of the country.  He began a buildup of the U.S. Navy that would later play a crucial role when in the Spanish-American War.<br />But these accomplishments of Arthur's were less impressive than they might have been.  He was a passive leader, not an active one.  If he had an opportunity to follow his conscience, he did so.  But rarely did he go out of his way to set policy on the course he believed was correct.  As Karabell points out, however, that was what the country wanted in a chief executive at the time.	2004-07-03
US	52833543	R1PE8O9E4O8LIK	0805069534	170491545	William McKinley: The American Presidents Series: The 25th President, 1897-1901	Books	5	13	16	N	N	"Teddy" McKinley?	The previous reviewer is correct that Phillips has written an extended argument more than he has a traditional biography.  But the argument is so cleverly advanced, and covers so much of McKinley's political life and presidency, that I found the book of compelling interest -- the best of the more than half-dozen biographies I've read in this wonderful The American Presidents series so far.<br />The core of Phillips's argument is that much of the credit given to Theodore Roosevelt properly belongs to his predecessor McKinley.  In establishing a political realignment in 1896 based on both labor and urban-dweller votes, in greatly expanding America's world role, and in beginning the reforms to tilt the balance of economic power from capital to labor, McKinley either preceded Roosevelt, setting the pace for the latter's presidency, or outdid TR altogether.<br />Phillips's argument holds up fairly well, although some parts are better than others.  He is very convincing in describing how McKinley created a political realignment in 1896 (and solidified it in 1900), but less so when discussing the importance of McKinley's rather circuitous route to protect labor against big capital.<br />Some of the most interesting parts of this book are its sidebars. Phillips should be commended for including short write-ups on the importance of Ohio to late-nineteenth century and early-twentieth century politics, as well as the importance of silver in that era.  I even enjoyed the sections on McKinley and the tariff.  This is not your typical biography, but its unusual approach is a strength, not a weakness.	2004-06-05
US	52833543	R9A6GC3K350DF	1594200130	388201475	Colossus: The Price of America's Empire	Books	2	62	68	N	N	Imperial Dreams	Unlike some reviewers here, I did not come to this book instinctively distrusting its thesis.  I was willing to consider that the United States was an empire in denial, and that the unfortunate part for the world was not that the U.S. was an empire, but that it did not embrace its role.  Perhaps Ferguson is right that the world needs another liberal empire in the British mold; perhaps he is right that there are many troubled spots around the globe that require an outside agent to set them straight; finally, perhaps he is right that only the U.S. can now fill that position. <br />This book, however, does not prove his case.  Ferguson writes very well and marshals an amazing array of facts to support some of his points, but he still fails to support the general task he assigns to &quot;Colossus&quot;.  For all the power of his prose and the flash of his facts, they merely gloss over crucial points in his analysis.  This is true from the start, where Ferguson does not so much define \\"empire\\", as he does un-define it by giving the widely-used term so broad a meaning as to basically stand for any great power.  He complains that some would use the word so narrowly that the U.S. would be excluded from the category, but he does not appreciate the opposite possibility: that the term can be defined so widely as to catch some ridiculous examples under its rubric, along with the U.S.  By Ferguson's vague notion of the word, present-day Germany could be considered an empire along with the present-day United States.<br />But the weakest section of the book is its holding up of Imperial Britain as a model for the United States in the twenty-first century.  Ferguson seems lost in a time warp here (and I speak both as a supporter of a strong U.S. foreign policy and an admirer of the British Empire).  Perhaps the strangest argument in support of this section is his showcasing of Britain's seventy-four year stewardship of Egypt as a shining example of the benefits of liberal empire.But even Ferguson's presentation doesn't disguise that Egypt's long tenure under the British seemed to leave little of substance for the average Egyptian.  Is this the best he could do for his argument?  Give us Nasser and Egypt, circa 1956, as what Americans could look forward to in Iraq if we just stay the course there for the next seven decades, as the British did in Cairo?  Thanks, but no thanks.  I'll take the quick exit instead.  <br />I still had a difficult time deciding what to rate this book.  Ferguson's talents are obvious.  He writes very well; his books are brimming with information and interesting narratives; there's no denying that some of his observations are brilliant.  But the core message in this book is just so off that I couldn't bring myself to rate it higher, even as much as I sometimes enjoyed reading it.  Like a delicious sweet, the taste of this book is hard to resist, but it's also impossible to deny the lack of anything nutritious inside it.	2004-06-05
US	52833543	R3HP2SYZJIYAJ6	0465081436	292690162	Applied Economics: Thinking Beyond Stage One	Books	4	12	14	N	N	What Comes After the Bold and Noble Ideas	This book is a much-needed antidote for those who measure the value of their policy prescriptions for their surface qualities.  Are you for cheap medicine?  Then you will want to regulate the prices set by pharmaceutical companies and limit the length of their patents.  Are you for cheap housing?  Impose rent control.  How about fixing the so-called \\"north-south\\" inequalities in wealth that you believe are a result of globalization and discrimination?  That's simple: increase foreign aid.<br />To these solutions, and many others like them, Thomas Sowell asks a very basic but often neglected question: What happens next?  Once you have imposed rent control in a city, for example, what happens to its housing market?  By providing preliminary answers to these questions based on empirical evidence, Sowell undercuts the surface moralism of those who promote these ideas.<br />Sowell looks at labor markets, the economics of medical care, housing and discrimination, how risk affects business, and finally provides a chapter on why various countries and regions show such different patterns of development.  As with all his work, his writing is crystal-clear and enjoyable.  This is a wonderful book, but I gave it four stars because Sowell has written many better.	2004-05-30
US	52833543	R3PRR5HOL9IJ9I	074325807X	438783610	Benjamin Franklin: An American Life	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Best of the Recent Franklin Biographies	With the three hundredth anniversary of Benjamin Franklin's birthday less than two years away, a flurry of biographies on the Sage of Philadelphia have either been recently published or are in the pipeline for publication.  Starting with H.R. Brands' \\"The First American\\" in 2002, there have been no fewer than five major biographies/book-sized studies on Franklin released over the last two years.  In my opinion, having read four of them, Walter Isaacson's \\"Benjamin Franklin: An American Life\\" is the best.<br />The virtue of Isaacson's work is the fluidity of its narrative.  It's a work I imagine Franklin himself could have written.  By comparison, Brands' writing on Franklin, while consistently solid, is more workmanlike than inspired.  Isaacson's journalistic skills, with their focus on readable prose, also more than compensate for his lack of solid historical knowledge about eighteenth century America that historians and Franklin biographers like Edmund Morgan and Gordon Wood possess.<br />Thankfully, you can never have too much of a good thing.  All of the Franklin biographies I've read have their unique and winning qualities.  Brands' \\"The First American\\" (4 Stars) is particularly good on the English and European history that set the context for much of Franklin's life.  Morgan's \\"Benjamin Franklin\\" (3 Stars) is not well-presented or even particularly interesting, but occasionally has a scholarly observation on Franklin or his era that sparks a reader's interest.  Neither of these biographies, however, matches Isaacson's in pure readability.	2004-05-30
US	52833543	R15GPMSYPO7OVI	0805069089	489874557	Rutherford B. Hayes	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A Controversial Election; a Moderate Reign	Most U.S. presidents seeking a second term look upon their re-election as an affirmation of their first-term administration.  Rutherford B. Hayes had to take a vicarious pleasure in the election of his successor, fellow Republican James Garfield.  Four years earlier, when engaged in a tough fight to succeed President Grant, Hayes promised the voters he would serve only one term if elected.  One gets the sense from reading this biography, however, that if he had sought re-election in 1880, voters would have awarded him with another term based on the distinguished and moderate agenda he accomplished during his first term, and in spite of the controversy surrounding his 1876 election.  <br />Trefousse quickly runs through the pre-political life of Hayes from his first-rate education to his distinguished military career, showing that Hayes was one of the most intellectually minded of American presidents and that his war record was very impressive.  In the Civil War, Hayes was an officer of solid character, who earned the respect of his men by his faithful service to them.  Hayes's character is also shown in the warm relationship he had with his wife Lucy for over forty years.<br />Trefousse's recounting of Hayes's pre-presidential political life and the election of 1876 is finely done, but it is the chapters on Hayes's presidency that most pleasantly surprise.  Before this book -- the first biography of Hayes I have read -- I primarily knew of Hayes as the president who ended Reconstruction after a controversial election.  But there was far more to Hayes's administration.  Once in office, Hayes sought civil service reform (much to the horror of many in his own party), toned down the nastier elements of America's Indian policy, and pushed hard for a moderate solution to the anti-immigrant sentiment towards the Chinese flaring out on the West Coast.  He also fought to prevent silver from being used as coinage, fearing the inflated currency would ruin the nation's credit.<br />In my opinion, the greatest value of The American President Series is what it has done for neglected U.S. presidents like Rutherford Hayes.  By presenting a series of short volumes on all the American presidents, it makes the lives of those chief executives, who are generally considered less important in U.S. history, more accessible to the reading public.  Few people, even among serious readers, would probably want to sit down with a 300- to 400-page book on the lives of Rutherford Hayes or Gerald Ford with the same anticipation they would a similar-size book on the lives of Theodore Roosevelt or Ronald Reagan.  This wonderfully written series ensures that those readers will never again have to make the choice between a long biography on some neglected president or no biography at all.	2004-05-29
US	52833543	R10DNJ9Z0HKJN	0670032999	510215142	Rise of the Vulcans: The History of Bush's War Cabinet	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The Character of the Bush Foreign Policy Team	This book vividly describes the careers of the six major players on the Bush foreign policy team, showing how each of their experiences helped to define their current views on America's role in the world, and how these views have affected U.S. foreign policy.  James Mann approach is unusual in that he purposely neglects President Bush's contribution to his own foreign policy.  Mann believes Bush took office without strongly-held opinions or knowledge of particular foreign policy issues, and that he is satisfied working within the assumptions of these six who serve under him.*  <br />While the members of the Bush foreign policy team had and still have numerous differences in their views on geopolitics, they did share one common belief.  In the darkest days of the Vietnam War and its aftermath, all of them believed in reinvigorating the U.S. military, and that America's best days lie ahead.  This put them at odds with the prevailing attitude of the 1970s' foreign policy elite, as best represented by Henry Kissinger. That view assumed America was in decline, and that it would have to come to an accomodation with the Soviet Union.  Mann shows that these six -- to one degree or another --rejected that view.  The failure of Vietnam did not represent the future of America for them; it was an aberration.<br />Despite this common belief, Mann catalogues the various differences between the team members, and shows how important their experiences were in shaping their beliefs.  Colin Powell is not nearly as dovish as popularly believed, but he is distrustful of civilians' grandiose expectations of military power because of his own experiences in Vietnam.  Donald Rumsfeld's political instincts and opportunism were major reasons he turned against the Vietnam War during the Nixon administration, but the same traits also contributed to his later more hawkish sentiments as Secretary of Defense under both Ford and, much later, Bush.  Dick Cheney, Paul Wolfowitz, Condi Rice, and Richard Armitage also each have their interesting and unique ways they came to their positions.  The book is at its most fascinating when dealing with these early personal histories.<br />Mann is fair in dealing with the six policymakers.  He takes seriously their point of views, even though -- if I had to guess -- I would say he is not personally sympathetic to them.  But instead of a negative critique, he's more concerned with showing how character and personal history affect foreign policy in this Bush administration.  His book is a marvelous example of how valuable that approach can be.<br />*****<br />* (I'm not sure Mann's view on the president is accurate.  Daalder and Lindsay's \\"America Unbound\\" sees Bush as the ultimate authority on foreign policy in his White House -- someone who has overruled Cheney, Rumsfeld and Powell on substantive foreign policy issues.  Whatever the case, Bush is not a part of this story, and his absence does not affect the quality of this book.)	2004-05-29
US	52833543	R1UZ8FU4AKD3AP	0674011740	747409495	Surprise, Security, and the American Experience	Books	5	22	26	N	N	Puts the U.S. Response to 9-11 in Historical Perspective	After 9-11, when the Bush administration began laying out the framework for a new strategy to deal with security threats to the United States, several scholars and commentators judged elements of the nascent strategy to be without precedent in American history.  John Lewis Gaddis, a scholar who has written extensively about the history of U.S. national security, argues otherwise.  Rather than an unprecedented strategy, Gaddis says the Bush administration has put forward a security framework that reaches back into the nineteenth century for its central ideas.<br />This short book, which was based on a series of lectures Gaddis presented at the New York Public Library in 2002, builds its case of an evolving U.S. security strategy around three events: the 1814 burning of the White House by the British, the 1941 attack on Pearl Harbor, and 9-11.  Gaddis argues that each of these events forced the U.S. to change its strategy to fit the new circumstances of the time.  Bush's recent unilateral policies after 9-11 and FDR's multilateral response to the U.S. entry into WW2 (that was also the basis of the U.S. Cold War strategy) are familiar to most readers, but it is Gaddis's description of John Quincy Adams and his nineteenth century strategy (one that was largely followed by almost all American presidents until 1941), and the comparison of Adams's strategy with Bush's, that is likely to spark the reader's interest. <br />Gaddis makes the case that Bush's so-called \\"unprecedented\\" strategy combining preemption, unilateralism, and hegemony finds its precedents in Adams's policies.  Like Bush, Adams felt it necessary to occasionally preempt neighboring states, non-state actors (Indians), and even failed states (Spain's faltering hold on its colonial possessions).  Like Bush, Adams felt unilateralism was sometimes necessary to secure America's long-term interests.  And finally, like Bush, Adams sought U.S. hegemony; the only difference between the two presidents was one of degree; Bush seeks to maintain U.S. global hegemony while Adams had to make due with the goal of regional hegemony in the Western hemisphere.<br />Gaddis does not claim that the Bush administration borrowed consciously from Adams, and the scholar concedes there are differences between the nineteenth and twenty-first century security environments for the U.S.  He maintains, however, the similarities are striking enough to note.  He also argues that there is a common thread to American strategy passing from Adams to FDR to Bush: whenever Americans have felt threatened, their response has been to take the offense, not to play defense; to expand, not to shrink behind walls; to confront and overwhelm, not to flee.<br />This is an excellent book, concise and strikingly persuasive.  It makes the Bush case for a new U.S. strategy better than the administration itself has made it, and yet Gaddis is not a Republican supporter.  By giving historical precedents to the controversial tenets of preemption, unilateralism, and hegemony, Gaddis attempts to show that Bush's new security framework is less radical than many now fear.	2004-05-29
US	52833543	R1KBJZL50Q7Q2P	0300101996	11119780	Affirmative Action Around the World: An Empirical Study	Books	5	29	32	N	N	The Invidious Undermining of Freedom	Proponents of affirmative action support it with various arguments: it is a temporary and limited program designed to right historic wrongs; it is a program by which equalities based on racism are balanced out; it helps those least fortunate in society; it eases ethnic/racial tensions.  Thomas Sowell's study of several affirmative action programs around the world shows how little evidence there is to support these arguments.<br />Sowell mentions numerous affirmative action programs throughout the book, but his primary focus is on the programs developed in five countries: India, Malaysia, Sri Lanka, Nigeria, and the United States.  While he admits that it's difficult to separate the different underlying factors influencing any outcome, he does a remarkable job showing to the satisfaction of any reasonable person how the outcomes of affirmative action policies are often contrary to what their proponents intended.  His cross-national survey reinforces that point by demonstrating how these same unintended outcomes occur in different countries that share little else in common.<br />Contrary to arguments that affirmative action programs are limited in scope and duration, Sowell gives examples of how they expand and endure.  India has had an affirmative action program for longer than any other nation, and though it was originally designed to be limited in time (20 years) and scope (mainly untouchables and other similarly disadvantaged \\"backward classes\\"), it has now ballooned to encompass numerous other groups of people over numerous extensions of time.<br />Contrary to arguments that the programs help correct inequalities based on racism, Sowell shows that inequalities among ethnicities in chosen professions and educational performance are the norm all around the world, and not proof of underlying racism.  Malaysia's Chinese, despite their lack of political power, disproportionately outdo the Malays in academic performance and professional representation.  And this comesmore than thirty years after the Chinese were targeted by the implementation of what may be the most successful affirmative action program in the world, a booming economy that lifted the living standards of all major ethnic groups, and Malay political leaders sifting through the country for qualified Malays to fill professional and academic positions.<br />Contrary to the arguments that the programs would help those in society from the most unfortunate backgrounds, affirmative action mostly helps those individuals in a particular group who need it the least.  In the United States, middle- and upper-class Blacks and Hispanics are often the prime beneficiaries of government-mandated employment programs and government contracts for businesses awarded to minorities.  Most tellingly, Blacks did far better removing themselves from poverty during the pre-affirmative action era than they have done since its implementation.<br />Finally, in probably the most damning indictment of affirmative action, contrary to arguments that ethnic/racial tensions are eased by such programs, it appears the exact opposite often occurs.  In Sri Lanka, the implementation of a language policy for one ethnic group (which in turn would help it secure jobs for its members), led to a deadly and long-lasting civil war in a country which had once been thought one of the most promising in the developing world.  India has also suffered violent ethnic flare-ups by groups seeking to either maintain or expand the preferential policies favoring them.<br />Affirmative action assumes the government has the wherewithal to identify and correct historic wrongs committed against specific groups, because freedom and neutral policies cannot bridge that gap.  But Sowell's study shows that governments do not have that wherewithal, and that some gaps between groups are natural and to be expected.  His book is a powerful antidote against this invidious undermining of freedom.	2004-05-19
US	52833543	R3FZNYB8X94MH9	1891620703	27114143	Bolt Of Fate: Benjamin Franklin And His Electric Kite Hoax	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Interesting Theory, but How Accurate is It?	Tom Tucker's thesis -- that Ben Franklin's most famous and dramatic scientific experiment was a hoax -- holds up surprisingly well for most of his book.  Tucker competently details the history of the eighteenth century science surrounding electricity, the various experiments with the phenomenon throughout Europe, and the personalities involved with its controversies.  He is almost convincing in his portrayal of Franklin as something of an intellectually ambitious crank, using the sage of Philadelphia's numerous and well-documented literary hoaxes, among other things, to support the case for Franklin's alleged scientific hoaxes (the flying of the kite being but one of several scientific hoaxes Tucker says Franklin made up).<br />Tucker undermines his own book, however, by stretching his claims too far.  He argues that Franklin's most famous scientific hoax was responsible for his oversized reputation in Europe, and that this reputation among Europeans was responsible, in turn, for Franklin's success as a diplomat in France during the Revolutionary War.  Since France's support was a major factor in the American colonies winning their freedom from England, Tucker believes Franklin's hoax might have freed the American colonists: \\"It might have been a kite, the story of a kite, the hoax that won the American Revolution.\\"<br />Of course that's a ludicrous judgment.  And this highly questionable claim led me to look into how well Tucker's other claims on Franklin stand up.  Even though &quot;Bolt of Fate&quot; was only just recently published, Walter Isaacson, the author of \\"Benjamin Franklin: An American Life\\" deals with Tucker's claims in a long footnote in his biography, and he is mostly dismissive of them.  Isaacson writes, \\"[Tucker's] book does not address the detailed evidence I. Bernard Cohen cites on this question and is, I think, unpersuasive.  Franklin's kite description is in no ways similar to his literary hoaxes, and if untrue would have been an outright lie rather than a hoax.  Tucker also makes the odd allegation that Franklin's description of his sentry box experiment was a death threat to the president of the London's Royal Society....  The comprehensive analysis by Cohen, a professor of the history of science who is the foremost authority on Franklin's electrical work, addresses fully and more convincingly the issues surrounding Franklin's sentry box, kite, and lightning rods.\\" [Page 534]<br />I have not read Cohen's research, and so I'm not able to affirm Isaacson's judgments comparing it and Tucker's work.  I can say that there are parts of Tucker's book which are interesting and valuable, and other parts in which its claims seem greatly overdone.  Read &quot;Bolt of Fate&quot; for enjoyment, but also with more than a little caution.	2004-05-17
US	52833543	R2ZJY7ER2FIBGM	188292617X	663137637	Edmund Burke: A Genius Reconsidered	Books	3	34	52	N	N	A Well-written Panegyric	Edmund Burke deserves better than this biography.  The author Russell Kirk is full of admiration for Burke, but his unqualified praise of his subject is more deserving of a 19th century hagiography than it is a modern work.  At no point in the book that I can remember does Kirk ever put anything but the most positive spin on the 18th century statesman/philosopher's actions.  Burke is undoubtedly everything Kirk claims -- a great man, a genius, and his influence in both England and the United States largely underestimated - but even the greatest and wisest of men have blind spots and moments of weakness.  Was Burke perhaps overzealous in his sixteen-year pursuit of Warren Hastings?  Did Burke hide his Irish Catholic roots out of fear for what they could do to his ambitions if brought out in the open?  Was his political philosophy less than consistent?  Not according to Kirk.<br />Edmund Burke: A Genius Reconsidered\\" does have its good points.  It's well-written -- far more accessible than the Conor Cruise O'Brien biography \\"The Great Melody\\".  (To be fair to O'Brien, his biography is not a straightforward work, but presents Burke's life thematically.)  Kirk's book also makes some valid points about Burke's legacy, convincing the reader that Burke's philosophy is underappreciated by modern audiences.  But a more balanced approach to Burke's life - without all the Great Man gloss -- would have made this point just as effectively.	2004-05-17
US	52833543	R3CU4B9051GSK3	0801442923	475007934	State-Building: Governance and World Order in the 21st Century	Books	4	21	26	N	N	The Next Global Challenge: Strengthening States	For many Americans, including almost all libertarians, state power is something to be diminished.  While there is usually some acknowledgement that the state is necessary for the national defense and for administering the rule of law, many Americans do not willingly concede that the regulation of certain aspects of the economy -- to give one example -- is a legitimate use of state power.  In the early 1990s, this American ideology naturally became a part of the ideology of the international institutions in which the U.S. played a major role.  Developing countries which came to these international institutions for help were usually told, and sometimes even required, to reduce the scope and power of their states.<br />In this short volume, Fukuyama shows how inappropriate - and even disastrous -- this American ideology is when applied indiscriminately in developing countries around the world.  Claiming it is no longer supported by most academic empirical research, he provides a rough and tentative alternative to the idea of the shrinking state by demonstrating where states must be strong and where it is okay for them to scale down.  Finally, he shows how such various global problems such as fighting terrorism and AIDS, the nonproliferation of WMD, and encouraging the spread of democracy, depend upon strong, not weak states, and that the U.S. and Europe must both come to terms (in their own ways) with this new international approach.  <br />Fukuyama claims that what is needed is a paradigm shift.  For much of the last half-century, the trend has been to weaken the state.  Now, the evidence suggests that a new approach is needed, one that goes beyond simply shrinking or enlarging the state, and begins to deal with making the state more effective based on local conditions.  While some basic outcomes (a democratic, capitalist state, for example) are to be expected, the way each nation gets there will be different.	2004-05-16
US	52833543	RMY3A7ZBQP122	0815706014	987399329	Shrewd Sanctions: Statecraft and State Sponsors of Terrorism	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Crafting Effective Sanctions	Over the last two decades, American policymakers have increasingly used sanctions to punish countries that transgress U.S. and international norms, or attack U.S. interests.  Sometimes these sanctions are coordinated with multilateral sanctions; sometimes the U.S. applies them alone.  Sometimes the U.S. puts forward comprehensive sanctions against a country; sometimes it only sanctions particular companies or organizations in a country rather than the country itself.  In some cases, the U.S. continually adjusts its sanctions against a particular country; in other cases, those sanctions remain fairly static.<br />The variety of sanction packages begs a question: which ones actually work in changing the behavior of the state being sanctioned?  Part of the surprising multifaceted answer to this question, according to Meghan O' Sullivan, is that many policymakers don't even seem to care.  Instead, they look upon sanctions as a generic expression of disapproval against the country being sanctioned -- with U.S. domestic interests often affecting the actual shape that disapproval takes -- rather than as a practical tool of statecraft.<br />O'Sullivan's book is an attempt to rescue sanctions from this current state by showing their potential as effective policy to change the sanctioned state's behavior.  She does this by closely examining four case studies where the U.S. employed sanctions against countries it deemed to be state sponsors of terrorism - Iran, Iraq, Libya, and Sudan.<br />This book's twin cardinal virtues are its thoroughness and its cautious conclusions.  Despite footnoting every twist and turn in how the U.S. employed sanctions in the four cases, and what subsequently happened in those sanctioned countries, O'Sullivan never overreaches in her claims.  Many places in the book, she is careful to note that proving what sanctions accomplished (or did not accomplish) in any particular case is extremely difficult to separate from other factors affecting the outcome.  Nevertheless, she superbly teases out some interesting and valuable conclusions from the data.<br />At the end of her book, O'Sullivan focuses on what policymakers need to do to make sanctions effective policy rather than just dramatic policy.  She believes they should employ sanctions that are flexible, as well as maintain open channels of communication with the sanctioned country.  Too often, U.S. policymakers have used rigid and redundant guidelines for sanctions that don't allow the target to be rewarded for good behavior.  Without this flexibility, there is almost no incentive for the country to change.  This causes the U.S. sanctions regime against it to harden into permanent U.S. policy, even when there is little interest in either country for this to happen.	2004-05-16
US	52833543	R6PMY1O0UPPFA	1555879691	131857008	From Opposition to Power: Taiwan's Democratic Progressive Party	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Chronicles the Rise of the DPP	President and DPP Chairman Chen Shui-bian's successful re-election bid in Taiwan's presidential election earlier this year, against a unified opposition, has solidified his party's hold on power.  With legislative elections later this year, and the political momentum turning its way, the DPP has a chance to make a clean sweep of the Nationalist Party from the main halls of power.  Having shown it is a serious political party, and not just the fortunate benefactor of a divided opposition, as it was in 2000, understanding the DPP has become a necessity for those serious students of Asia interested not just in Taiwan politics but in cross-strait issues as well.    This book, which details the rise of the DPP from a scattered and unorganized set of factions during the Martial Law Era to the surprising prominent national force it became with Chen's first election as Taiwan's president in 2000, is the best introduction of the party I've read in English.  The author Shelley Rigger tells the history of the DPP, outlines its organization, describes how it makes decisions, shows the importance of factions to its makeup, and demonstrates how the Taiwanese public views the party.  The book also discusses the DPP's policies, and how the history of the party's opposition to the ruling KMT left it with little of a sustainable and broad-based ideology beyond pushing for greater democratization.    Much has happened in Taiwan politics since this work was first published in 2001, dating some of Rigger's observations in the book.  For example, she thought the DPP still faced enormous obstacles in becoming a permanent balancing force in the island's politics.  Chen's recent re-election against a united Pan-Blue opposition appears to be proof that whatever obstacles existed, they have been overcome.  Even had Chen lost the election (and it was a controversial election, decided by a very narrow margin), that he could have run such a competitive race, after what even many supporters considered a lackluster four years governing the island, shows the large political gains his party has made during his tenure in office.    Rigger is a serious scholar and is fairly objective throughout the book.  However, she is sympathetic to the DPP and occasionally tries too hard, in my opinion, to justify the party to her English-reading audience.  An example of this is on the issue of independence.  She writes about the DPP dropping its policy of a formal declaration of independence as an example of heart-felt moderation, rather than political maneuvering.  But the party's steady focus on several policies associated with independence (passports, constitution, referenda, educational content, etc.) suggests the party is dedicated to a strategy that will make the country ripe for independence.  There's nothing wrong with that, of course, but Rigger downplays the point, perhaps fearing it might be misconstrued by her readers and reinforce the already widespread belief outside Taiwan that the DPP is reckless on the issue.	2004-05-13
US	52833543	R1QM8FVN7SMN7G	0071363335	897080772	The Lions of Tsavo : Exploring the Legacy of Africa's Notorious Man-Eaters	Books	5	34	37	N	N	A Fascinating Study	Bruce Patterson's brilliant new book shines a much-needed scientific light on the lions of Tsavo.  First made infamous by Colonel John Patterson (no relation to the author of this book), after he wrote \\"The Man-eaters of Tsavo\\" almost a century ago, and then re-introduced to modern audiences when the movie \\"The Ghost and the Darkness\\" came out in 1996, the lions of the barren East African region have been much speculated on.  Their unusual physical characteristics and habits, including a reputed inclination to prey on men with greater frequency than other lions, have added to the interest about them.  <br />Unfortunately, and somewhat surprisingly, little is known about the Tsavo lions.  Are they a separate species from the lions found elsewhere in Africa or a subspecies?  How does their social behavior differ from that of other lions?  Why are the male lions of Tsavo typically maneless?  Was the trait selected by evolution for some reason or determined by the tough physical environment of Tsavo?<br />Bruce Patterson, a naturalist with extensive experience studying these beasts, informs the debate on them to such a degree that even where he does not provide definitive answers to these questions about the lions - and he sometimes does -- he provides the definitive framework for understanding them.  He approaches the creature from every angle.  He has studied them in the field.  He has worked on them in the laboratory.  And he has extensively read both the scientific and popular literature on the lions.<br />Despite his impressive scholarship, Patterson is not afraid to tell the reader when he doesn't know something.  He often writes that some area on the lions needs further study.  I also appreciated how he took seriously what any source (white hunters, local tribesmen, etc.) had to say about the lions.  Patterson does not snobbishly discount what a source says just because it was not written by a fellow scientist.  He makes note of it in his ledger and considers itin the context of other information on the subject.<br />This is a delightful book.  If you have any interest in lions in particular or big cats in general, you will find it fascinating and informative.	2004-02-11
US	52833543	RSGV2JF1KEBV3	0385484488	818002894	Who Really Matters: The Core Group Theory of Power, Privilege, and Success	Books	2	32	40	N	N	Does this Concept Really Matter?	Core Group theory is a vague notion that is as well-meaning in its intentions as it is blurry in its specifics.  The theory's basic goal is clear enough: the empowerment of workers who feel their work is neglected by their company.  Ultimately, however, the author, Art Kleiner, has a far more ambitious aim than simply reordering business organizations, envisioning a world (unions, schools, the body politic, etc.) developed along his Core Group theory.<br />The book's problems begin immediately with the introduction of the Core Group theory.  What is it?  Kleiner claims it is the people in an organization who matter - the ones with power.  But how can it be applied to a particular company or organization?  Is the president of the company part of its Core Group?  Probably, Kleiner says, but don't assume it.  What about his secretary?  Possibly.  What about the head of an important division in an organization?  Maybe.  Is it the people in the organization with the best titles or those who make the most money?  Not necessarily.  Can someone be part of the Core Group one month and then out of the group the next month?  Yes.  At one point, Kleiner even says the Core Group exists \\"in people's hearts and minds.\\"<br />In other words, Core Group theory is a subjective notion.  This lack of substance haunts the rest of the book.  The people who matter in an organization are the people who matter.  Period.  Even if you are part of an organization, you can't be sure who matters.  As Kleiner makes clear in the beginning of the book, you can't even be sure about your own status.  You might think you matter, and indeed for a while you might matter, only to discover later on that you don't.<br />Despite this muddled beginning, Kleiner soldiers on as if he has given the reader something concrete to grasp.  He mentions the history of some companies as examples to highlight his theory, but it's clear that with a theory this flexible, there is no company's history that can't be explained with it.  Whatever decisions the company makes are due to the Core Group dynamics.  If it appears that something the company did can't be explained by the Core Group theory, then you simply don't understand who belongs to the Core Group.  There's a circularity to the theory that makes it impervious to any empirical proof.  <br />Ignoring those difficulties, Kleiner moves on to give a solution to those left outside the Core Group: develop a shadow Core Group.  Given that you can't be sure who is in the Core Group and who is not, this seems rather dangerous.  I'm not aware of any organization that would look kindly upon an informal group set up within it that second guesses, however nicely, the formal organization's power structure.  Kleiner acknowledges the difficulties, but says that with \\"a certain finesse, a fair amount of relationship and reputation equity, a willingness to experiment....Most of all, it takes...time and commitment that people generally do not invest in organizations.\\"  In other words, Kleiner believes that a shadow Core Group must be far more talented in their organizational and people skills and more dedicated to the company than the Core Group itself.  This seems highly unlikely to happen.<br />I don't think Kleiner is really interested in looking at real-world organizations as they are so much as he's interested in dreaming up some catch-all theory to turn organizations (and ultimately the world) into what he wants them to be.  And why not?  There's a certain appeal to his theory.  Almost everyone who's worked in an organization has at some point felt his or her talents and efforts were neglected by those in charge.  Unfortunately, the real-life solution to such a problem was to either work harder and make the organization notice you, or cozy up to someone in the in-group.  Kleiner's solution of making everyone part of the in-group sounds nice, but its pleasantness is of the same variety as fluffy talk of wanting everyone to be rich or happy.	2004-02-10
US	52833543	R10Z6035S8NC17	0815716885	225101507	America Unbound: The Bush Revolution in Foreign Policy	Books	2	12	21	N	N	Surprisingly Thin Arguments	Daalder and Lindsay argue that George W. Bush has revolutionized U.S. foreign policy and that his revolution rests on two premises: the world is a dangerous place in which alliances and treaties hold back U.S. power and the U.S. must use that unfettered power to change the status quo of international relations.  This revolution preceded 9-11, the authors claim, rather than was caused by it.  The terrorist attacks in the United States simply reinforced a strong tendency already evident in the Bush administration.  <br />I expected better evidence and more solid arguments from a book which claims Bush, rather than 9-11, revolutionized U.S. foreign policy.  The pre-9-11 unilateral foreign policy decisions made by Bush that are cited here (withdrawing from the Kyoto Protocol and the ABM Treaty, for example) can hardly be considered revolutionary given the strong support for such moves during the Clinton administration among conservative intellectuals and Republican congressmen and senators.  Bush's most controversial foreign policy doctrine to date - pre-emptive war - came after 9-11 and whatever plans Bush may or may not have had for Saddam's Iraq prior to the terrorist attacks, nothing would have come of them without hijacked airliners crashing into New York City skyscrapers and the Pentagon.  <br />Other arguments made in the book also do not point to a revolutionary foreign policy.  Bush's strong moral language of good and evil when discussing foreign policy, for example, may be unfamiliar to foreign audiences and can be debated on its own terms, but it is of an accord with a not uncommon tendency in American foreign policy that can be found in the speeches of Ronald Reagan, John Foster Dulles, and Woodrow Wilson.  Even John F Kennedy's inaugural spoke of foreign policy in grandiose and stark terms such as \\"twilight struggle\\" between Communism and the West and \\"supporting any friend and opposing any foe\\".<br />Daalder and Lindsay's thesis begs for some historical perspective, but beyond a rough sketch, they rarely provide it.  They're content to look at Bush's foreign policy on its own terms, or in contrast to the foreign policy of his immediate successor, and then judge it revolutionary.  They admit that foreign policy was not a priority when Bush came to office, and that 9-11 transformed the views of his administration in some ways, but they don't connect the dots.  It was not Bush that revolutionized U.S. foreign policy; it was 9-11 that revolutionized Bush's foreign policy.  The monumental project of nation-building currently underway in Iraq is proof of that.	2004-02-09
US	52833543	R217TGL7RIBF43	0805069569	566397493	Warren G. Harding: The American Presidents Series: The 29th President, 1921-1923	Books	5	65	73	N	N	Saves Harding from the Ash Heap of American Presidents	John Dean has achieved the considerable feat of rescuing the reputation of a man who is generally considered one of the worst presidents in U.S. history.  He does this by drawing the reader's attention to what made Harding one of the most popular American presidents during his lifetime: a speedy and significant economic recovery, a major international arms reduction agreement, and, perhaps most importantly, a reduction in divisiveness from his predecessor's final two years in office.<br />Not long after Warren Harding's death in August, 1923, public and critical opinion toward his presidency began a precipitous decline.  Several scandals - some of which had already emerged during his presidency and some of which would only come out after his death - began to symbolize his regime.  Harding's presidential papers, which could have helped remove some of the black marks towards his administration, were withheld from public view, allowing fictionalized and grossly unhistorical accounts of his presidency to stand as the only available record.<br />Harding's fundamental decency, his good political instincts, and his high regard for public service were lost in the one-sided reckoning of his presidency.  Even in the selection of his cabinet and other personnel, Harding was far better than is now widely assumed.  While several scandals arose among his cabinet and staff (none of which implicated the president himself), Harding made several outstanding and notable selections to his cabinet and to the Supreme Court: Andrew Mellon as Treasury Secretary, Herbert Hoover as head of the Department of Commerce, William Howard Taft as Chief Justice of the Supreme Court are some examples.        <br />Harding was not a five-star president, and this biography does not make the case he was.  This is a five-star book about the man and his presidency that makes the case they deserve far better recognition than they have received.  John Dean shows there was far more to Harding and his presidency than smoke-filled poker rooms, womanizing, and political scandals and corruption that have come to symbolize his administration.	2004-02-09
US	52833543	R1N6R871HT7QL5	0679767320	496865523	All the Laws but One: Civil Liberties in Wartime	Books	3	12	13	N	N	A Timely Book, but not an Easy Read	\\"All the Laws but One\\" was published in 1998, but it somewhat anticipates the contentious post 9-11 question of how far the U.S. government be allowed to curtail civil liberties to protect public safety.  The book's primary value is that it allows a glimpse into the mind of someone who will be deciding the answer to that question.  <br />Contrary to some reviewers' comments here, Chief Justice Rehnquist's position on the matter is more to the middle than one might expect.  While he believes in a balancing tension between liberty and order, and that the scales quite naturally tip towards order in wartime, he is also critical of some executive decisions that rashly peeled away civil liberties under the guise of wartime necessity.<br />More than three-quarters of this book focuses on executive power, and the judiciary's response to the use of that power, during the U.S. Civil War.  The rest of the book looks mainly at the curtailment of civil liberties during WW1 and WW2.  Rehnquist rarely considers at any length, however, the proper judicial response to the scaling back of civil liberties when war has not been declared, but a clear threat exists.<br />The book is highly sensible in its viewpoints.  Unfortunately, Rehnquist is not a natural writer and his account often gets bogged down in his prose. His history of events sometimes feels tacked on to his analysis of the legal cases.  If the author was not the Chief Justice, and the subject matter not of such compelling contemporary relevance, there would be little reason to bother with this book.	2004-02-09
US	52833543	R2GLZTOX0BJRUM	0393058077	39728206	The Beast in the Garden: A Modern Parable of Man and Nature	Books	5	51	52	N	N	The Remaking of Nature	David Baron has written a superb book on what is likely to be a growing problem in the United States for some time to come.  While the main story is about an increasing number of close encounters with mountain lions that culminates in a fatal attack on a teenager in the greater Boulder, Colorado area, the implications behind how it all began are far more wide-ranging.  Ultimately, this book is about how Americans are reordering their relationship with nature and don't even realize it.<br />Baron tells the story well.  Even though you know where the book is headed, you are still gripped by the narrative; you still hope the fatal ending Baron has already told you about in the beginning of the book might still be averted.  The author also weaves several historical and biological asides into the story that smartly explain it.  The significance of mountain lion attacks on dogs, for example, is made far more ominous because Baron has told the reader of the mountain lion's previous relationship with wolves. <br />The author has his prejudices, but it's hard not to agree with him after reading the book.  He strongly believes that nature's relationship with man must be managed.  He convinces the reader that whatever we call the environmental policies that helped animals like the mountain lion return to Boulder (and elsewhere in the U.S.) in the 1980s, it is not a return to an original state of nature as it existed before white settlers so much as it is a whole new world.  And that new world has its own rules that are different from those in the past.  Not understanding that will force us to learn some painful lessons.	2004-01-13
US	52833543	RLA9NCSA04JS	0375509038	863073313	The Right Man: The Surprise Presidency of George W. Bush, An Inside Account	Books	4	8	13	N	N	An Insider's Oblique Look at Bush	David Frum's book on George Bush should be considered an insider's account and it is advertised as such on the front cover.  Frum served in the Bush White House as a speech writer for over a year, including the few critical months after 9-11.  But part of the appeal of this book is the author's emotional distance from Bush and his willingness to criticize the president over certain issues. <br />Contrary to one reviewer's comment, there is no hero-worshipping in this book.  Frum finds Bush has many faults: he is uncurious and therefore ill-informed, dogmatic and impatient.  His presidency was headed nowhere prior to 9-11.  There were several passages in this book I could imagine Bush would have been none too pleased to read, if he had the curiosity and time to read the book at all.<br />But Frum is not a former insider trying to get back at the Bush for some wrong he perceives the president did to him.  Most readers will think better of Bush after reading this book.  While Frum does not consider Bush a great president, the author believes Bush's moral character fits well with waging the war on terror.  He is not a great man, but he is the right man.	2004-01-13
US	52833543	R2RV5O2424X4OL	0684854732	200113579	Masters of Enterprise: Giants of American Business from John Jacob Astor and J.P. Morgan to Bill Gates and Oprah Winfrey	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Sketches of Great American Entrepreneurs	These brief portraits of great American businessmen and women are well written.  Brands does a creditable job laying out the basics of each of their lives and presenting it in a highly readable fashion.  His purpose is to show the historical development of how Americans have made money in a country where the making of wealth has became almost a divine calling.<br />Brands' selection of business giants could have been better.  He seems to have picked his membership more for their diversity as people than for their masterful entrepreneurial skills.  Why include Berry Gordy, but not Warren Buffett?   Brands' choices obviously skew his presentation of U.S. business history, making it seem more diverse than it really has been.	2004-01-13
US	52833543	R7SWUJE859BVO	0805069429	328457754	James K. Polk (The American Presidents Series)	Books	4	22	25	N	N	The Most Accomplished President You Never Heard of	James K. Polk promised to do four things as president: Lower tariffs; reinstitute an independent treasury; acquire Oregon from the British; acquire California from Mexico.  He did all four.  He also promised -- and again delivered on that promise - to serve only one term as president.  Shortly after retiring from the presidency, Polk died.  The knowledge of his deeds seems to have barely outlived him.<br />Why has Polk's record been so little studied when compared to the recognition given other accomplished presidents?  John Seigenthaler believes that it is in part due to the man's character.  He was cold and distant from everyone but his wife; he had no hero-worshippers or sycophants who could burnish his reputation after his death; he left no distinct image of himself that captured the public's imagination.  He simply did what he said he was going to do and then he left the stage.<br />Polk's rise to the presidency was fortuitous.  A sickly boy, who at seventeen had life-threatening surgery that probably left him sterile, Polk was a good university student who went into the law and then into politics.  From the beginning of his political career, he was a Democrat with strong ties to Andrew Jackson, ties which would serve him well when his political career later took a turn for the worse.<br />Seigenthaler, a native Tennessean, is at his best when describing the relationship between the two Tennesseans, Polk and Jackson.  At first, Polk was no one's choice for the Presidency in 1948.  He had failed in his last two elections.  But through his connection to Jackson, careful maneuvering, and the careless errors of the frontrunners, Polk emerged as the winner.  Surprisingly, once elected, he acted as if he was his own man, taking little consideration of the views of men (including Jackson) who helped elect him.<br />I knew of Polk's reputation and some of his accomplishments before this book, but I had never read a biography of the man.  This is a good introduction - it's well-written and long enough to hit on all the highlights of Polk's life without committing yourself to a full biography.	2004-01-13
US	52833543	R3BIO4MLJAWUQS	0071385290	222639007	The Four Pillars of Investing: Lessons for Building a Winning Portfolio	Books	5	28	29	N	N	The Best Investing Book I've Read	I began seriously investing in stocks and bonds about three years ago.  Since that time, I've read perhaps a dozen books on investing.  This is my favorite.  It has all the elements a beginning investor needs: clear explanations of basic investing concepts; lucid and entertaining prose; a brief history of the market to illustrate for the reader both the manias and extreme pessimism that have sometimes gripped it; and, most importantly, numerous cautionary tales about the industry that helps beginners make their investment choices.<br />Bernstein identifies four pillars for building a portfolio: theory, history, psychology and the business.  The pillar of theory is about the conceptual framework of investing.  This potentially could have been a very difficult section, but Bernstein makes it very readable even though he introduces a couple of ideas he claims most brokers are not familiar with.  The second pillar of history is about how markets in the West have behaved in the past.  Bernstein argues this history is important to remember so that investors develop reasonable expectations for what their investment will do and recognize both the warning signs of an overheated market or the symptoms of a depressed one.<br />The third pillar of psychology helps the reader to combat the usual mistakes beginning investors make: excessive trading, following hot stocks and funds, high fees, overconfidence, etc.  Bernstein says the investor must learn to emotionally detach him- or herself from the investing crowd while still keeping a healthy respect for all he doesn't know.  The fourth pillar of business emphasizes that those who provide investment services for you are often your worst enemy to getting a decent return on your money<br />This is a great book, but not a perfect one.  I wish Bernstein had explained some things more fully - especially in the first section of the book on theory.  But what he does explain, he explains well enough to catapult the reader to the next level of understanding, should he or she choose to go there.  Some critics of the book might argue that Bernstein says nothing new.  This is true.  But the effectiveness of the book is in the way it is presented and how it is written.  I recently read John Bogle's book \\"Common Sense on Mutual Funds\\".  It is a superb book, and has many (but not all) of the same points as \\"The Four Pillars of Investing\\".  But it fails to engage the reader as well as this book does.	2004-01-03
US	52833543	R1TMAEHYRGJPJ1	1400041007	937533494	Tibet, Tibet: A Personal History of a Lost Land	Books	4	25	25	N	N	Finding a Lost Land	Near the beginning of this book, while describing the inordinate amount of media and celebrity attention Tibet has received in recent years, Patrick French writes a funny line that I think captures the essence of why he wrote this part history/part travelogue/part memoir: \\"[The attention] made me recall the days when you had to say `Lhasa, the capital of Tibet,' in the same way you might say, `Ouagadougou, the capital of Burkina Faso.'\\"  <br />Tibet was once a place of remoteness to Westerners; today, it seems all too familiar to them, at least superficially.  Its spiritual leader, its religion, and even some of its fashions are now widely recognized by many Europeans and Americans.  Celebrities seem to fall hard for its causes.  As a long-time advocate for Tibet, French, in some ways, assisted in this process and his book is something of a reassessment in how he looks at the place that is at once so familiar to many, yet remains widely misunderstood.<br /> \\"Tibet, Tibet\\" is ostensibly about French's return to the Himalayan land to rediscover the place and people that have fascinated him since his teenage years.  But along with personal observations made while traveling, he mixes in a good deal of Tibetan history, interviews with both prominent and unknown Tibetans, and, of course, large sections on the country that has dominated Tibet for most of the modern era: China.  French writes in a discursive style, occasionally returning to subjects he has already covered to further elaborate on them.  <br />The author is a man approaching middle-age who is revising his youthful views on Tibet and making the inevitable mental compromises that the young do not make.  But this is not an angry repudiation or even mournful elegy of his former views; this is a mature work.  While his love for Tibet and its people are still obvious, French now seems to realize that many of the causes he once advocated are so far removed from the reality that Tibetans must deal with everyday thatthose causes have become unhelpful to them.<br />This is not to say that French seeks to downplay what has happened to the Tibetans.  His descriptions of what the Chinese (as well as the British and Americans) have done to Tibet are about as subtle as a punch to the stomach.  But he now knows that the destinies of Tibet and China are tied together, and that it no longer makes sense to speak of a \\"Free Tibet\\" without speaking of a \\"Free China\\".	2004-01-01
US	52833543	RZVTY24JWSI4G	0465041213	670404372	Made in Texas: George W. Bush and the Southern Takeover of American Politics	Books	2	26	32	N	N	New Deal Chic	\\"Made in Texas\\" seeks to explain George W Bush by describing the social, economic and cultural milieu of the region in Texas where the president grew up.  It's an unorthodox approach since many people assume - especially the president's critics - that Bush's Texas roots are a put-on.  It's well-known, for example, that his father, George H.W. Bush, had a flexible idea of where he called home; the Bush family is from New England stock; and even the president himself was born in Connecticut.  But to Lind, George W Bush is very much a son of Texas and it is this premise that \\"Made in Texas\\" works from.<br />The book starts off well.  Lind is at home describing Texas and its history.  (It's possible, however, that I only found this part of the book the most interesting because I know the least about it.)  He argues that Texas has two political camps: a modernizing side typified by men like LBJ, Sam Rayburn, and Ross Perot and a conservative side typified by men like Pappy \\"Pass the Biscuits\\" O'Daniel, Coke Stevenson, and George W Bush.  The modernizers have their roots in the American Midwest and in the Scandinavian and German ethnicity of some Texans.  The conservatives' roots are in the Deep South and the Scots-Irish ethnicity of many Texans' descendents.<br />Lind says that until FDR and the New Deal, the conservative side dominated Texas politics.  Only with the large government spending projects of the 30s was their stranglehold on Texas loosened.  Since the 1970s, however, the Texas conservatives have been winning back the ground they lost during the previous four decades.  Many people think of LBJ as a southerner, but Lind argues that Bush is far more representative of the southern roots of Texas than LBJ was.  Up to this point, I found the book interesting.  While Lind generalizes a good deal about Texas and ethnicity, generalizations - if accurate - are useful and indeed necessary to understanding any culture and society.<br />But when Lind turns to other subjects, his book begins to disintegrate.  He obviously has little knowledge of economics - there are so many elementary mistakes in the book that it would take an entire review just to point them all out.  At one point Lind even suggests higher wages *cause* higher productivity.  He also writes \\"One need not be a Jeffersonian agrarian to recognize that the big city and middle-class society are usually incompatible.\\"  In this light, he advocates big government projects - similar in spirit to the work projects of the New Deal --to seed the South and Midwest regions and attract people back from the coastal cities to the interior.  <br />This is pure silliness - a complicated and wrong-headed approach to a large but fairly straightforward problem (growing income disparities between groups of Americans because of fewer good job opportunities for blue-collar workers).  First, large cities are not incompatible with a large and secure middle class.  One could argue the exact opposite in fact.  Second, Lind wrongly identifies globalization as the cause of the problem when most economists agree that it is but a small part of the problem.  Third, he fails to think through the economic implications of his grand policy proposal and instead spends most of his time dealing with environmental objections to it.<br />After dealing with economics, Lind turns to religion.  Where he was simply wrong in his economic prescriptions, he is positively hostile in describing the religious impulses of a good portion of his fellow Americans.  George Bush's thoughts on religion are dealt with in a perfunctory and risible way.  Lind plainly thinks that if you take your religion seriously, you are a bit nuts.  He drags up every already well-covered anecdote to show that your average religious southerner is about as civilized as a Neanderthal.  (As hostile as Lind is to the religious Christians, it should be mentioned that he is nearly off the charts in his attitudes towards Jews.  Given Lind's fascination with ethnicity and social determination, one could probably make a good go as to why this is so by using Lind's own methods.)    <br />Michael Lind is in many ways a fascinating writer.  I consider his book \\"Vietnam\\" one of the finest and most unusual interpretations of that war I've ever read.  Lind tries to avoid the standard answers to the standard questions we often hear in U.S. political discourse.  He also manages the rare trick of being a powerfully direct writer who is still able to make a sophisticated argument.  But he overreaches his talents here and this book is clearly an emotional one rather than a well-thought out argument.	2003-12-26
US	52833543	R1NO6UV8UCI9ZY	0393058522	269998694	The Roaring Nineties: A New History of the World's Most Prosperous Decade	Books	2	9	28	N	N	A Political Tract that Seeks to Revitalize Liberalism	If you buy this book because you're looking to read something along the lines of Paul Krugman's early popular work, you will be disappointed.  There is little economic analysis here, even of the popular variety that Krugman once excelled at.  Instead, \\"The Roaring Nineties\\" is little more than a political tract that seeks to convince its readers, by morally haranguing them, that European-style market capitalism should be the model for the U.S. economy.  <br />Stiglitz does this by revisiting the economic history of the 1990s - some of which he helped to make as  a member of the Council of Economic Advisers from 1993 to 1997 - and tearing it apart.  His main targets are \\"free market ideologues\\", but it's clear that the actions of members of his own team (the Clinton administration - including Mickey Kantor, Robert Rubin, and President Clinton himself) distress him the most.  While Stiglitz is often polite towards these men, occasionally saying nice things about what they accomplished during the nineties, he's also clearly disappointed with their lack of vision.  <br />Stiglitz's primary concern throughout the entire book is that Americans put too much faith in free markets, but he focuses on deregulation, globalization, and corporate favoritism (questionable accounting practices and tax breaks, etc.).  While his book is suppose to be about the 1990s, he has plenty to say about George W. Bush and none of it is kind.  Stiglitz ends his book by calling for a new Democratic Idealism that rescues Americans from the worst aspects of the free market.<br />As a Nobel Prize winner in economics, Stiglitz almost certainly can back up what he says about the 1990s economy.  But he doesn't.  This is critical.  There is a good deal of heat here, but not much light.  And what starts as a book on the 1990s economy, ends up trashing Bush for all kinds of reasons- several of which have nothing to do with economics (including pulling out of a strategic arms treaty and shunning the International Criminal Court, for example).  Stiglitz's politics are not for me, but I bought the book because I'm willing to read different points of views so long as I learn something from them.  Krugman's early popular work (such as \\"Peddling Prosperity\\") was valuable to me in that regard.  But Joseph Stiglitz is no Paul Krugman.	2003-12-22
US	52833543	R56DPQYGS2WCZ	0844741620	729186783	Coercing Virtue: The Worldwide Rule of Judges	Books	4	5	9	N	N	Excellent Topic, but a little Thin	On what basis does the U.S. Supreme Court decide the constitutionality of laws on abortion, homosexuality, religion, and other cultural issues?  It should come as no surprise to most readers that Robert Bork - probably the most famous rejected nominee to the Supreme Court in modern times - thinks there is no basis, and that most of what is proclaimed constitutional or unconstitutional in these areas is simply made up depending on the current predilections of the justices.  What might come as a surprise to some readers, however, is Bork's claim that this American legal activism, through the mechanism of judicial review, is being internationalized to a stunning degree.    While Bork says this judicial activism can now be found from Australia to Scandinavia, he looks at just three case studies outside the U.S. - international courts (which are primarily European in outlook and location, and represent the vanguard in the internationalization of law), Canada, and Israel.  What he describes, however, seems to be less the result of a direct influence of U.S. courts than a syndrome to be found in similarly educated people in the Western world.      Canada, for example, in setting up its Charter of Rights and Freedoms in 1982, wanted to avoid what Bork calls \\"judicial imperialism\\" by providing some democratic controls on judicial review.  It appears not to have worked as Canada's courts have challenged the intent of key provisions in the Charter with their own judgments.  While Canada's judges are still less activist and absolutist in their thinking than their American counterparts, the trend is clear.    The most interesting case study in the book is Israel.  According to Bork, the Jewish State's Supreme Court is easily the most powerful among democratic nations.  It has \\"gained the power to choose its own members, wrested control of the attorney general from the executive branch, set aside legislation and executive action when there were disagreements about policy, alteredthe meaning of enacted law, forbidden government action at certain times, ordered government action at other times, and claimed and exercised the authority to override national defense measures.\\" (Page 111)  Surprisingly, this judicial activism is highly popular in Israel and vigorously defended by the elites.    The sections on International and U.S. courts were less interesting to me, mainly because I was already familiar with the general arguments made in them.  In my opinion, Bork should have done more research on other case studies (Germany? Australia?) to support his claims.  This book is only 139 pages long and has just four case studies, two of which (the U.S. and international courts) are well-covered elsewhere.  This thinness is the worst aspect of the book -- it feels rushed and abbreviated.  An interesting and important topic like this deserves a fuller treatment.	2003-12-21
US	52833543	R23UIB4RWWVX2S	0679640851	414218752	Inventing Japan, 1853-1964 (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	5	20	23	N	N	Creating Modern Japan	It's difficult enough to write a comprehensive and readable modern history of a large nation-state like Japan, but it's a far more onerous task to attempt to do so in less than 200 pages.  Ian Buruma's 177-page book manages to do so with an excellence rarely found in volumes three or four times the size.<br />\\"Inventing Japan\\" traces the history of Japan from the landing of Commodore Perry's black ships in 1853 to the 1964 Olympics, a time when Buruma claims Japan \\"rejoined the world\\".  Buruma's writing is graceful and vivid.  Despite covering over a century of history, his short book never feels attenuated.  He knows what to focus on and, more importantly for a book of this length, what to leave out.<br />Buruma stirs up some hard feelings among Japan's partisans -- including some here! -- by writing very directly about what he perceives as modern Japan's negative national traits.  These include an obsession with national standing, fanaticism, overconfidence and (ironically, considering the alleged overconfidence) an inferiority complex.  Balanced against these, Buruma says, is a grace in defeat and an ability to rebound quickly after disaster.<br />I enjoyed Buruma's directness.  He doesn't soft-pedal Japan's crimes.  But he also doesn't dwell on them.  This book could only have been written by someone with a profound interest in Japan and its people.  Buruma ends on a hopeful note, saying he looks forward to the day Japan does not need black ships to break out of the destructive patterns it finds itself in.	2003-12-14
US	52833543	R31AIEN4AKWC09	068486214X	889208740	The Worldly Philosophers: The Lives, Times And Ideas Of The Great Economic Thinkers, Seventh Edition	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Fantastic Writing, but Beware of Bias	In this justly famous volume, first written more than fifty years ago and now in its seventh edition, Robert Heilbroner brings to life the great practitioners of the dismal science.  Starting with Adam Smith and ending with Joseph Schumpeter, Heilbroner shows the sparkle and variety and even the romance of these social scientists that many readers might think of as boring.  By humanizing them, he illustrates that economists ask questions and search for answers which are too important to be dull.<br />\\"The Worldly Philosophers\\" weaves the details of the economists' lives into their work, making it easy for the reader to remember their important ideas.  Thorstein Veblen's idiosyncratic work, so different from the concerns of most economists, is shown to be of a piece with his idiosyncratic life.  John Maynard Keynes iconoclastic (and yet discriminating) mind, completely at odds with his mentor Alfred Marshall's straightforward analytical approach to the discipline, is described as crucial to his understanding the underlying reasons for the Great Depression.<br />Economics and economists are rarely presented with such style.  And yet, ultimately, it is Heilbroner's fascination and focus on style that undoes some of the greatness in this book.  Heilbroner is at home with the old political economists of yesteryear that wrestled with the great questions and used a few simple models in their books.  He despises, however, the recent turn by the modern economics profession away from its literary roots towards a more mathematical approach.  His unwillingness to come to terms with why economists use more math is the only flaw in an otherwise wonderful book.	2003-12-13
US	52833543	R32KF4HIEX10BF	0684868644	954638820	America's First Dynasty : The Adamses, 1735-1918	Books	3	1	5	N	N	Nice Vignettes, but Pointless Talk of Dynasties	I've read all of Richard Brookhiser's biographies of the Founding Fathers (Washington, Hamilton, Morris) and I've enjoyed them all, but I liked this one the least.  Brookhiser writes very well and his observations on the character of his subjects are always revealing.  He shows how often the best quality in a biographer is not polished prose or research skills, but judgment.<br />In his book on the four generations of Adams, however, Brookhiser overreaches.  Had he kept his focus on the men, this would have been a fine if undistinguished book.  But Brookhiser appears to be trying to say something about families, American dynasties, and the difficulties of sustaining greatness.  What he wanted to say, I could never quite figure out.  The wonderful aphoristic quality of Brookhiser's prose -- that makes him so good when writing some sharp and brief observation -- fails him when he must sustain an argument.<br />An example of this is when Brookhiser writes in his introduction of the contradiction of an egalitarian society having so many political family dynasties, from the Adamses to Bushes.  In noting this, he writes \\"[An American political dynasty] is the tribute democracy pays to aristocracy.\\"  This sounds very nice, but it's meaningless.  Most of Brookhiser's comments on the significance of American political dynasties and how the Adamses were able to sustain their greatness fall along this line.  <br />Thankfully, most of this book is on the Adamses, and it is when writing on them that Brookhiser shines.  Still, the bad ideas -- even though they don't make up a substantial part of the book -- hang over it.  Brookhiser is always interesting when writing about a person, but is not at his best when trying to come up with a conceptual framework to make sense of it all.	2003-12-13
US	52833543	R2BZH8IRY67P1E	0028608135	877529619	The Last Neanderthal: The Rise, Success, and Mysterious Extinction of Our Closest Human Relatives	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Superb Illustrations, Clear Concepts, Outstanding Text	I'm not a reader who usually pays too much attention to photos and illustrations, but I could recommend \\"The Last Neanderthal\\" on that basis alone.  There are nearly 150 of them in this 200-page book, some covering an entire page in my oversized edition.  Almost all of them are superb.  The illustrations are mostly of various fossilized bones and reconstructions.  They are not haphazardly thrown throughout the book or tightly grouped in the middle, but introduced when appropriate for the text.<br />Ian Tattersall's set-up of what is known about Neanderthals is masterful.  Most of the first third of the book is about evolution, how fossilization works, and a brief description about what is known of the precursors to both Homo neanderthalensis and Homo sapiens.  Tattersall is clearly at home with this material and confident in his presentation of it.  He takes his time in this area - even though it has little to directly do with the topic of his book - because one cannot understand Neanderthals unless one has some understanding of other pre-modern humans and the scientific techniques used to understand them.<br />The set-up is not wasted on a flat ending.  When Tattersall finally gets to the Neanderthals, he maintains a high level of interest for the reader by first showing how the scholarly views on Neanderthals have changed so much over the last hundred-fifty years (much more fascinating than it sounds) and then by moving into areas about its evolution and what is known about its lifestyle.  He appears to be a fair partisan, pointing out evidence both for and against different sides of the numerous controversial topics on Neanderthals.	2003-12-13
US	52833543	R2BJ2JWUYYKOY0	1893554732	996732934	Mexifornia: A State of Becoming	Books	5	21	24	N	N	A Scholars Personal Account of the Problems of Immigration	Victor Davis Hanson made a name for himself as a classicist and an author of popular military histories.  In this book, he turns to a subject that concerns him more personally than scholastically: the continual large-scale immigration of Mexicans into California and what it means for the state.  <br />Hanson is the fifth generation of his family to live in central California farming the land.  As a farmer, he understands the importance of Mexican labor to California agriculture.  But as an American citizen who believes in the now-abandoned notion of the melting pot, he is discouraged by how the massive influx of immigrants is changing the state for the worse.<br />His concern is that the size and rapidity of Mexican immigration, and the discarding of the melting pot for an unworkable idea of multiculturalism, has left Californians unprepared for the Balkanization of their state.  Mexican immigrants no longer feel the need to adjust to their new surroundings when so many of their neighbors speak Spanish.  Non-Hispanic Californians no longer have the cultural confidence to demand that Mexican immigrants make that adjustment.<br />The best parts of the book are Hanson's personal experiences.  He has numerous small but telling anecdotes of how immigration from the south has changed his small farming community, mostly for the worse.  But Hanson is not such a partisan that he has lost all objectivity and balance on the issue.  He admires the hard-working Mexicans and understands that most of them do eventually become assimilated.  <br />The author also criticizes white Californians for their work ethic and the lack of confidence in their own Western culture that Hanson feels is clearly superior to Mexico's.  The book ends on a somewhat upbeat note, extolling the power of America's youth culture to assimilate so many of these immigrants.  But Hanson emphasizes this is not enough.  Not just Californians, but Americans as well, need to regain an educational system that assimilates rather than divides people.	2003-12-12
US	52833543	RLD2S302X1RF9	0805069550	80591489	Woodrow Wilson	Books	4	42	43	N	N	As Expected, a Solid Effort from Brands	H.W. Brands' output over the last five years has been enormous.  From huge biographies on Theodore Roosevelt and Benjamin Franklin to fair-sized books on the California Gold Rush and several major U.S. business figures to a slim volume on Americans' relationship with their federal government, the Texas A&amp;M historian has published at least six books over the last five years that I'm aware of.  The four which I've read have had the same qualities: solid scholarship and writing, but nothing flashy or standout about them.<br />Brands' biography of Woodrow Wilson fits in this pattern.  The book is an easy and enjoyable read.  The scholarship is solid (I enjoyed reading the short but striking comments for each of the books mentioned in the \\"selected bibliography\\").  Occasionally, Brands is even eloquent as when he describes the effect on Wilson of the death of his first wife.<br />Nevertheless, as with every other book of Brands I've read, \\"Woodrow Wilson\\" never soars to become a great work.  The reason eludes me.  Brands seems to have all the gifts to write a memorable history or biography, but his work remains a little too flat and it fades too quickly from the reader's mind.  He does not break out of this mold with \\"Woodrow Wilson\\".	2003-12-11
US	52833543	R30P2NPB0CMRDR	0385504004	57025522	Ripples of Battle: How Wars of the Past Still Determine How We Fight, How We Live, and How We Think	Books	3	17	24	N	N	The Impact of War	Hanson argues that modern academic trends have downplayed the impact that battles have on history.  With many historians now emphasizing cultural and social history and with fewer Americans having a direct experience with battle, public awareness has faded of how far-reaching has been the consequences of war.  By focusing on three important battles that have been somewhat neglected, \\"Ripples of Battle\\" attempts to show that warfare is not isolated in history, but has a rippling effect that pushes out in all directions from the battlefield.<br />Hanson uses a counterfactual approach to prove his point.  What would have become of Western philosophy if Socrates had not survived at Delium?  If General Albert Sidney Johnson survived at Shiloh, would the notion of the glorious lost cause have taken root in the South?  Did the death of the commanding general in charge of the battle of Okinawa prevent an inquiry into the great loss of life on that island?  These questions are but a few examples of what Hanson teases out of his history of three battles.<br />I greatly enjoy Hanson's writing.  He vividly describes battles and what's important about them.  He has a natural sympathy for the characters of fighting men.  But in \\"Ripples of Battle\\", he fails to adequately demonstrate his point.  Of course, battles have ripples.  But all history has ripples.  And while the life and death consequences of warfare might mean the ripples of battles spread further out than those found in more mundane history, Hanson's examples do not always refer to the life and death consequences of battles.  This makes it difficult to sympathize with Hanson's point.   <br />An example is the case of General Lew Wallace, who saw his young career ruined by events at Shiloh.  Hanson argues that because Wallace never got over the turn his career took after the battle and felt unfairly treated, he began a new career as a novelist.  He became enormously successful after writing \\"Ben Hur\\".  His protagonist in the novel, like Wallace himself, was a victim of unfortunate circumstances.  Hanson sees this whole train of events (and more) as stemming from a battle.  But this seems like a tendentious reading of history.  One could take almost any event and see ripples of this kind spreading out if one were so inclined.<br />As descriptions of three battles, \\"Ripples of Battles\\" works; as a demonstration of the powerful impact of battle, it falls short.  Hanson is right that for those families who lose loved ones, the ripples of battles are among the most powerful eddies in history.  But, for other cases, he doesn't show them to be any more powerful than other events in history	2003-12-11
US	52833543	R2YI281IDGCE0U	0684852950	496909155	New World Coming : The 1920s and the Making of Modern America	Books	3	44	50	N	N	A Well-written History, but No New Outlook or Judgments	Nathan Miller writes well enough to keep your attention throughout this book.  He hits all the highlights of one of the most celebrated decades in U.S. history - from F Scott Fitzgerald to Charles Lindbergh, from the Scopes Trial to women's changing fashions --  but never gets bogged down on any particular area.<br />But Miller's judgments on the decade are too conventional.  He has, for example, the typical disdain for the three Republican presidents whose tenure spans the decade.  He wears it lightly, but it's obviously there.  Miller also seems to accept much of the criticism by America's men of letters for the crassness of their own society, and often approvingly cites remarks they make about aspects of American life.  H.L. Mencken is quoted with a disparaging remark about Coolidge's social instincts; John Kenneth Galbraith is quoted on the Great Depression; Warren Harding is compared to Sinclair Lewis's literary character George Babbitt.  Haven't we all tasted this literary ragout before?  Why the need for another helping?<br />Miller still occasionally surprises with some small story or detail.  Sigmund Freud's visit to the United States is discussed in a small section on the psychiatrist's enormous influence in America.  I had forgotten about the emergence of so many new skyscrapers in the twenties.  And it was fascinating to read about the land mania in Florida.  But these interesting sidelines fail to elevate the book above mediocrity.  If you haven't read about the 1920s before, you might find this history very interesting, but if you already know a good deal about the decade, this book will add little to your understanding of it.	2003-12-10
US	52833543	RSGXIYW8HBPI8	006056413X	391093559	Bull! : A History of the Boom, 1982-1999: What drove the Breakneck Market--and What Every Investor Needs to Know About Financial Cycles	Books	4	48	51	N	N	A Cautionary Tale for Investors	Beginning investors are sometimes told a few simple maxims to help them manage their portfolios.  Never time the market.  Buy and hold.  Expect 10% annual return on stocks held for the long run (usually defined as seven to ten years).<br />Maggie Mahar has done a service to these investors by showing how little evidence there is to support these maxims or, at the least, how easily they can be distorted.  She does this by revisiting the last boom and showing it in historical perspective.<br />Contrary to the conventional wisdom that most index funds will grow 10% annually so long as they are held around ten years, Mahar shows that the U.S. stock market - upon which most index funds closely track - has gone through several periods nearly twenty years long with little to no annual growth.<br />Contrary to the conventional wisdom that you can't time the market, Mahar says that most savvy investors - including buy-and-hold strategists such as Warren Buffett - do time their investments, and feel no compunction about getting out of a severely over-inflated market.<br />Mahar's history is also instructive in showing how industry leaders and government officials were complicit in allowing shoddy accounting and other questionable practices to contribute to the breakneck market.  Rather than a rational market in which everyone can expect to be a winner given enough time (seven to ten years), \\"Bull\\" shows that investors must still exercise caution even when following the few simple investing guidelines that most people do not question.	2003-12-10
US	52833543	R33ZEXIHUQKBWT	0471392286	61568632	Common Sense on Mutual Funds: New Imperatives for the Intelligent Investor	Books	5	39	40	N	N	Superb, even if a bit Repetitive	Despite the prosaic title of the book, and the conservative investment philosophy of its author, \\"Common Sense on Mutual Funds\\" has a revolutionary aim.  Vanguard founder John Bogle believes the mutual fund industry must make major changes in order to faithfully serve its customers and, by explaining his investment philosophy, he shows both why radical change is necessary for the industry and helps to precipitate it by encouraging individual investors to follow his investment advice.  <br />Bogle thinks too many mutual fund investors are being scammed by professional managers of funds who reward their companies instead of their investors' portfolios.  High fees, outrageous expenses, rapid turnover, unneeded \\"products\\", marketing costs -- all are used by countless mutual fund companies to inflate their bottom lines to the detriment of their investors' needs.<br />Several reviewers here have noted that Bogle repeats several key points throughout the book, especially the importance of keeping costs as low as possible.  This is true.  But important lessons need to be stressed, especially with so much evidence that the average investor still doesn't understand them.  Perhaps Bogle feels it's a lesson that can't be said enough.  After all, why would you pay more for less, unless you simply don't understand what is being done to you?<br />This book was somewhat prescient.  Published near the end of the long bull market of the 1980 and 90s, \\"Common Sense on Mutual Funds\\" called out -- in its own quiet and understated way -- for reform of the mutual fund industry before it became fashionable to do so.  While Bogle's book doesn't have an angry tone, its recommendations are essentially more radical than anything now being considered by New York's attorney general in his drive to reform the industry.	2003-12-10
US	52833543	R1CTPCHBV0EBWI	0393051404	386506024	Monster of God: The Man-Eating Predator in the Jungles of History and the Mind	Books	3	22	27	N	N	Nowhere Near as Good as &quot;The Song of the Dodo&quot;	If you've read \\"The Song of the Dodo\\", you'll most likely be disappointed by David Quammen's most recent book.  \\"Monster of God\\" is a fair effort but it fails to blend as many interesting elements into its narrative as his former award-winning book and, considering the subject matter, is surprisingly dull.  Perhaps Quammen played down the topic to keep his book from being another piece of \\"predator porn.\\"  If that was his intent, he was too successful.  The book's very flatness runs counter to one of Quammen's themes: that these flesh-eating beasts send a primordial chill through the blood of men.<br />\\"Monster of God\\" is primarily about four predators: the Asian lion of Gir, the saltwater crocodile of Australia and India, the Romanian brown bear, and the Amur tiger.  Quammen travels to each place to see first-hand the interaction between man and these fierce beasts and to try and understand if there is any future for these mega-predators.  He gives almost equal time to the men and women who live alongside these animals, and presents a sympathetic view of the threat some of these people must live with.  <br />But, too often, the book works at cross-purposes.  Despite the fear-inspiring title, the occasional tales of woe from villagers who knew relatives of friends killed or attacked by the beasts, and the search through classical literature and cave art for man's impulse to fear these creatures, when the predators finally make their entrance in the book, they don't seem the slightest bit fearsome.  The Asian lion, apparently, is only a serious threat to kill men after a drought has killed his usual prey.  The Amur tiger is far more likely to kill dogs than men, and is rarely seen even by very experienced guides.  The brown bear of Romania is an occasional threat to livestock, but there are almost no incidents of it attacking men.  Only the saltwater crocodile seems a constant threat to those living in its territory.  Even Quammen's tales of the men and women who must live in close proximity with these creatures seem mostly ambivalent toward the danger.  In short, where is the so-called *monster* of God?<br />The book also fails to provide a coherent framework for what is obviously a pressing question: what can be done to save these fascinating creatures?  Quammen looks at the commercialization of saltwater crocodiles in Australia (and the lack thereof in India), the preservation of the brown bear in Romania and the Asian lion in India, and the faltering efforts to save the Amur tiger, but he never attempts to put it together in a way that the reader might glean some solution to the problem.  He grudgingly admits that the kind of commercialization Australia practices with the saltwater crocodile might work in some situations, but seems against it for aesthetic reasons.  He sees that Communism worked for the preservation of both Romanian brown bear and the Amur tiger, but obviously bringing back Communism is no answer.  And he appreciates the role luck played for the Asian lion by providing a final sanctuary for it at Gir that humans found unsuitable for agriculture.  But where does it all lead?<br />Quammen obviously can't provide answers he doesn't know, but he appears unable to seriously engage the question in a fruitful search.  Instead, he seems resigned to what he believes is the animals' final fate: extinction.  It may also be that Quammen simply chose too few case studies to come up with anything worthwhile.  Whereas in \\"The Song of the Dodo\\", he traveled to numerous islands and seemed to work harder to present a wide variety of lessons from them, here he limits himself to four cases that don't seem to provide much beyond the fact that man has a hard time living with large predators.  Consequently, I finished the book knowing a few more interesting details about rare lions, tigers, bears, and crocs, but little else.	2003-09-30
US	52833543	R1QG5HR3T0A2T7	0684827123	635805839	The Song of the Dodo: Island Biogeography in an Age of Extinction	Books	5	9	10	N	N	An Excellent Overview on Extinctions	Why do extinctions happen?  By way of answering this question, David Quammen takes an odyssey around the world to numerous islands because they are where most of the world's extinctions have taken place in modern times.  He visits Indonesia, Tasmania, Hawaii, the Galapagos, Madagascar, Guam, and the former home of the now-extinct Dodo, Mauritius.  As Quammen travels, he recounts the history that islands have played in the science of biology, from Alfred Russel Wallace and Charles Darwin's famous journeys to the recent dust-up over the new and increasingly popular theories in ecology that were based on the study of islands.  Finally, he explains that the rapid rate of island extinctions may be a harbinger for what happens elsewhere as man increasingly cuts up and divides the world into \\"islands\\" of biodiversity.<br />This book does an outstanding job of mixing history, basic ecological concepts, and personal experience into a coherent theme.  I recently read Quammen's book \\"Monsters of God\\" and I found this book superior in every way because of that coherence.  And while I agree with some Amazon reviewers who find fault in Quammen's views on the controversy over whether Darwin or Wallace deserved first credit for the concept of natural selection, I don't think it detracts from the book.  Quammen clearly finds something dishonorable in Darwin's actions during that period, but after reading two biographies on Wallace - Shermer and Raby's recent publications - I think he reads too much into it.  This noticeable prejudice of Quammen's, however, is not directly relevant to his main themes and shouldn't keep anyone from enjoying this wonderful work.	2003-09-30
US	52833543	R1M63ON1P2YOGI	0375412301	867759289	Special Providence: American Foreign Policy and How It Changed the World	Books	5	12	13	N	N	The Best New Book on U.S. Foreign Policy	This startlingly good book attempts to explain modern U.S. foreign policy by way of the country's early and neglected foreign policy traditions.  Contrary to many informed views of early U.S. foreign policy as either inept or missing in action until the middle of the twentieth century -- Mead argues that the U.S. was actually a masterful practitioner of diplomacy and geopolitics from its earliest days.  While several major European states engaged in destructive wars during the nineteenth and the first half of the twentieth centuries, the U.S. seemed to make the right moves at various key moments in its history.  <br />Mead contends that these outcomes were not fortuitous accidents, but the result of a flexible diplomacy based on four schools of foreign policy that he names after U.S. historical figures: Alexander Hamilton, Thomas Jefferson, Woodrow Wilson, and Andrew Jackson.  The names do not mean that the foreign policy is derived from the historical figure so much as the main idea in each of the schools can be associated with him.  In the case of Hamiltonians, the priority is to the country's economic health and federal support for big business.  For Jeffersonians, it is a low-profile foreign policy and support for democracy at home.  For Wilsonians, there is a commitment to international justice and institutions.  Jacksonianism is a widespread populism that expresses itself mainly through protectionism, patriotism and a fierce belligerence at times of war.<br />Mead argues that each of these traditions has their place and that the reason for the geopolitical success of the U.S. is due to the flexibility from combining the different schools to various degrees.  In some periods, Jeffersonianism might be appropriate as the main approach.  In others, a Jacksonian approach might be what's needed.  In still others, Wilsonians and Hamiltonians might both share the top billing.  In any case, Mead stresses that what American policymakers have lost sight of since the beginning of the Cold War is the need for this kind of flexibility that only a deep appreciation of America's foreign policy traditions can provide.<br />At first, I found Mead's descriptions and examples of the four schools suspiciously vague and sometimes even contradictory and ahistorical.  But his approach grew on me as I continued through the book.  I found it helpful to think of Mead's four divisions as more like archetypes than schools and of his book as more of an introduction to the subject than the final word.  While he didn't quite nail his conceptual framework down, I think any reader will see that he's on to something special and that his ideas about U.S. foreign policy need further discussion.  (Note: Mead published \\"Special Providence\\" before 9-11, but I don't see how anything is changed by the tragedy, other than perhaps Mead's own final prescription for the foreign policy school to which the U.S. should now give priority.)<br />The most impressive part of the book, however, has nothing to do with the four schools.  In the first two chapters, Mead deals with the foreign policy tradition of the United States.  They are nothing short of revelatory as Mead rescues this tradition from the mistaken notion that the U.S. lived a blessed existence in the nineteenth century, largely free from foreign policy concerns.  Instead, the truth was quite different as Americans - both the public and policymakers - were obsessed with foreign policy, particularly their economic dependence on Britain and securing the New World as their exclusive geopolitical sphere.  As Mead describes it, foreign policy was not a periodic concern for Americans, but a constant concern, and the various successful ways in which policymakers of that era handled U.S. foreign policy should continue to be a guide for America in the post-Cold War era.	2003-09-24
US	52833543	RTW74WJWBM3HT	069111532X	149719705	The Journey of Man: A Genetic Odyssey	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A Brilliantly-told History of Man's Genetic Past	Spencer Wells has written the definitive popular account of the search for man's origins and his populating of the planet.  Not just a popularizer, but an actual scientist who has worked in the new discipline of population genetics, Wells presents complicated scientific findings with surprising precision and clarity, and still avoids the common mistake of most popular scientific accounts by never overstating his claims.<br />The book begins with a short historical sketch of the scientific notions of man's beginnings.  Did Homo sapiens evolve independently in several different parts of the globe, as some anthropologists believed, or do all men have a common beginning, a single root?  After surveying the early scientific opinions, Wells looks at what genes have to say about man's origins and how he populated the planet.<br />Wells covers some archaeological finds and, later in the book, uses linguistics to buttress his genetic evidence, but he primarily looks at DNA patterns found today in local populations believed to have existed in their areas for millennia.  The results are fascinating.  An early coastal migration from Africa to Australia, for example, is hypothesized to take into account remnant black populations spread throughout Southeast Asia, a relatively early settlement of Australia compared to other places on the globe, and the lack of archaeological finds, which suggests the migration stayed close to the water's edge and was later swallowed up by the rising oceans after the end of the ice age.    <br />But it is not the results that make this book so much as Wells' brilliant, short descriptions of the science behind the answers.  He has a concrete way of describing everything from the statistics behind DNA sampling to why the conceptual Adam and Eve did not co-exist at the same time.	2003-07-23
US	52833543	R1FJTK8LMI0IP6	1931229287	214843459	The Gracie Way: An Illustrated History of the World's Greatest Martial Arts Family (Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu series)	Books	3	59	61	N	N	A Celebration of the Gracies, not a History	This book is called an \\"illustrated history\\" of the most famous family in martial arts.  While it has some useful information about the Gracies, it is less a history of the family by an outside and objective observer than it is a celebration of the family's achievements by someone who is almost part of the family himself.<br />First, the book's good points.  The illustrations are beautiful.  Many photos are in color, including some that are large enough to cover two pages.  There are also a few black and white photos of Carlos and Helio in their fighting prime.  The book gives ample space to not only the more famous members of the Gracie family from an American or European perspective -- fighters such as Rickson, Royce, and Royler -- but also to those Gracies who are not as well known -- fighters such as Rolls and Carlos Jr.  Finally, the book is generally well-written and well-organized.<br />Unfortunately, despite these good points, the book's author, Kid Peligro, simply doesn't have the emotional distance from the family to cover it objectively.  For most U.S. and European readers, this will be evident when the book turns to more recent events.  An especially egregious example is the coverage of Royler Gracie's fight against mixed martial arts legend Kazushi Sakuraba in the Pride Fighting Championships.  <br />To anyone who didn't have a dog in that fight, Sakuraba obviously destroyed Royler.  It was such an embarrassing mismatch that in the middle of the contest Royler was reduced to asking -- pleading, really -- for his Japanese opponent to go down to the mat and wrestle him.  Near the end of the fight, Sakuraba did indeed go down with Royler and quickly put the Brazilian in an armbar (in what is known as a \\"Kimura\\").  He held it for about fifteen seconds to a half minute, slowing torquing it as Royler refused to concede.  With less than a minute left, the Japanese referee finally decided to call the match in Sakuraba's favor out of fear that Royler's arm mightbreak.  As the match was without judges, and any fight that did not end in a knockout or submission was to be ruled a draw, the Gracies were upset at the referee's decision.  Royler had not been knocked out or submitted, but the referee had given Sakuraba the victory anyway. <br />In his book, Peligro gives Sakuraba some credit (how could he not?), but basically argues that his victory was tainted and that Royler had learned a valuable lesson from the fight: \\"I learned jiu-jitsu has no limits.\\"  Actually, the lesson Royler should have learned from the fight was that if he takes on a great opponent in a mixed martial arts contest, he has a good chance of being crippled.  The punishment he absorbed, especially to his legs, was enormous.  If the fight had not been just two rounds, Royler would have quickly decided that jiu-jitsu did indeed have limits and that he had reached them.  Peligro also mischaracterizes Sakuraba's Kimura: it was well-set and there was nothing Royler could do to defend against it other than to hope he was more flexible than Gumby.  If you watch the fight, there are a couple camera shots where Royler grimaces when Sakuraba twists his arm.  He was clearly in pain.  He also could not hit Sakuraba or otherwise improve his position.  A referee is well within his rights to stop a fight if he thinks a fighter's well-being is in danger.  <br />There are other examples of this kind of coverage in the book.  Why doesn't Rickson fight quality opponents?  Why isn't Royce's jiu-jitsu match against Wallid Ismail included in the book?  These omissions and the slanted view of several fights show that Peligro is not interested in history so much as he is in celebrating the Gracie family.  There's nothing wrong with that, of course.  The Gracies deserve credit for revolutionizing martial arts and popularizing mixed martial arts contests.  But an honest history would also address the fact that the Gracies are no longer at the cutting edge of mixed martial arts asthey once were.  This book does not do that.	2003-07-23
US	52833543	R204PZ8RPQT29J	0393057658	346106080	Moneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Right on the Money!	Michael Lewis is not a name that comes to many people's minds when they discuss the best writers working today, but it should be.  He's a great wit, has a wonderful ear for dialogue, and a clever mind for seeing behind the ruses and props of the traditional powers of everything from finance to politics to, now, baseball.<br />A recent hot topic that has engaged many baseball fans over the last several years is the relationship between payrolls and winning.  More so than most professional sports, there is a lopsidedness to the size of payrolls between baseball's richest teams and its poorest.  This is important because many of baseball's wealthiest teams are also its winningest. <br />One large exception to this pattern is the Oakland Athletics.  With one of the smallest budgets in baseball, the A's have put together a team that also has one of the winningest records in the Major Leagues over the last five years.  Why? <br />According to Lewis, the key to the A's success lies in both economics and psychology.  The economics is that good, non-superstar baseball players have now become so expensive that there are financial constraints on small-market teams to acquiring them.  This, in turn, has also pushed a few owners to hire creative management to find other ways to acquire talent rather than just purchasing it on the free agency market.  <br />Still, many small-market teams remain stuck in the traditional ways.  The A's have not largely because of the psychology of their General Manager, Billy Beane.  Beane was once a baseball scout's wet dream; he could run, hit, field, throw, and was pretty level-headed for a young and talented kid.  What's more, tall and slim, he looked like a baseball player.  But Beane failed as a major-leaguer, and it was in his failure as a player that his genius as a General Manager was born.<br />Beane knew first-hand that scouts were often wrong and this intimate knowledge provided enough of an impetus for him to appreciate the new scienceof baseball statistics that other baseball people couldn't care less about.  The new science basically argued that the traditional baseball stats did not accurately measure what was most important to winning baseball games, and that other, newer ways of looking at stats provided a more efficient way of measuring talent that would help teams to win.<br />While this science had been building up among fans for some time, it was having a difficult time penetrating the inner sanctum of baseball management and professional scouts.  They had their traditional ways of figuring out what was a good baseball player and no fan was going to tell them differently.<br />Until Billy Beane arrived.  While Beane was no statistician, he was smart enough to see what the new science had to offer, and his background ensured he would be sympathetic to it.  After all, Beane had once been the scout's darling boy and he had suffered from overly high expectations because of it.  He knew how wrong scouts could be.  With Beane in charge, computer programs and Harvard grads were soon taking over the jobs of seasoned, professional scouts.  What happened after that forms the main story behind this marvelous book.	2003-07-23
US	52833543	R35KYGQ7KEG2WY	0375508260	649819248	Paris 1919: Six Months That Changed the World	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A Superbly Written Narrative, but Lacking in Clear Judgments	As a literary portrayal of the Paris Conference, this book can't be beat.  Its nearly five hundred pages of text are not only well-written, but scholarly, comprehensive, and sometimes even entertaining.  MacMillan focuses on the numerous personalities of the conference and arranges the book around the various issues they handled there.  Most of the time, this is done on a country by country basis, although some issues - such as those surrounding the peace terms for Germany - are covered thematically.<br />My only major complaint with the book is its judgments on the conference.  While MacMillan clearly shows that the major players failed to deliver a workable peace on numerous issues, she plainly has a soft spot for the whole enterprise and defends it against most criticism, including the most common one: that its failings would lead directly to World War 2.  She also defends the peace conference against its most famous critic, John Maynard Keynes, and his argument that the economic terms against Germany were too harsh.<br />Unfortunately, MacMillan's defense of the Paris conference is not up to the same standards as her narrative skills in describing it.  I read Keynes' \\"The Economic Consequences of the Peace\\" soon after finishing this book and was surprised to see the famous economist's main arguments were still convincing.  MacMillan really doesn't even touch on Keynes' points in any detail, but brushes them aside with an argument that Keynes already anticipated in his book.  (See my review of \\"The Economic Consequences of the Peace\\" for details.)	2003-07-19
US	52833543	R25PQNT7WQN2BC	1931541132	477302525	The Economic Consequences of the Peace	Books	5	65	70	N	N	The Classic Account of the Versailles Peace Treaty	This book gave economist John Maynard Keynes a huge influence on perceptions of the peace treaty signed after World War I -- an influence that has been controversial ever since.  Critics still argue over whether Keynes exaggerated the deleterious effects of the treaty on Germany's economy.  Some also contend that the account, which was widely read during the 1920s, encouraged both German intransigence to overturning the treaty and Allied acquiescence in allowing it to be overturned -- two key factors in the rise of Hitler and the reconsolidation of German military power before World War II.<br />Keynes' book remains highly readable in many sections.  He was not only a brilliant economist, but a superb writer with a keen eye for the foibles of the great men of his time.  However, some sections of the text, such as the one dealing with reparations, are abstruse and less suitable to the modern audience.  These are still brilliantly told, but unless you are a grad student or a scholar with a particular interest in the many details of Germany's economy in the early part of the century as well as the demands put on it by the treaty, you are not likely to find these sections as gripping as the others.<br />The book must be read by those interested in the Versailles Peace Treaty and the aftermath of its signing.  Even today, the power of Keynes' argument is evident.  I've just recently finished reading Margaret MacMillan's \\"Paris, 1919,\\" and while I enjoyed the book, I found her arguments against Keynes to be unconvincing.  MacMillan says the actual collection of economic claims against Germany was rather modest, less, for example, than Germany collected from France in the aftermath of the 1870 war.  But Keynes admitted the allies might not hold Germany to all the economic terms of the treaty.   He still felt strongly that many of those terms - whether enforced or not - discouraged sound planning by German investors, companies, and its government, and unnecessarily impoverished the German people.  This he felt was bad for not just Germany, but all of Europe.	2003-07-18
US	52833543	RVPVIGS66JCXY	0060984031	794982372	Third Chimpanzee, The	Books	4	50	55	N	N	A Dry Run for "Guns, Germs, and Steel"	If you've read Diamond's two most recent books -- \\"Why is Sex Fun?\\" and \\"Guns, Germs, and Steel\\" -- very little in this book will be new to you.  \\"The Third Chimpanzee\\" covers a wider range of topics and is more overtly political than those two, but much of the same territory is examined.<br />In this book, which was his first for a general audience, Diamond examines the history of man's evolution, seeking to establish patterns that might explain man's future.  He worries that man has a self-destructive tendency -- as typified by genocide, the threat of atomic warfare, and the loss of biodiversity -- that could lead to man's own self-destruction.  While Diamond occasionally tries to strike an optimistic note, the book has a dark pessimism throughout it.<br />One of the book's only failings is that its several aims are sometimes at cross purposes.  Diamond begins \\"The Third Chimpanzee\\" by trying to level man down to the animals.  He does this by explaining how closely connected man is genetically to his closest living cousins, the chimpanzees (thus, the name of this book).  On this basis, he then argues that a rethinking in our concept of human rights is in order. <br />Later in the book, however, when Diamond is exhorting his fellow homo sapiens to save the planet, he chooses to focus on man's unique traits, both destructive and redeeming.  Man is capable of genocide, certain types of which, Diamond argues, are unique to man.  On the other hand, man is also capable of learning from the history of his species, something which is also unique to man.  Diamond's switch from presenting man as just another chimpanzee to presenting man as both world destroyer and potential world savior is a bit jarring, even if not necessarily contradictory.<br />\\"The Third Chimpanzee\\" is an easy and enjoyable read, but it fails to reach the intellectual heights of \\"Guns, Germs, and Steel\\" -- a superior book in every way.  Clearly, this was a dry run for Diamond, and he would later improvehis presentation by dropping most of the overt politics and pessimism, while slightly narrowing his focus.  The result was a great book; this is merely a good one.	2003-07-18
US	52833543	R1JM32API82THP	0826414354	33102527	No End to War: Terrorism in the Twenty-First Century	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Scholarly Look at an Elusive Topic	Academicians still struggle to define terrorism even after more than a hundred years of case studies to draw upon. The main problem, Walter Laqueur contends, is that terrorism is always evolving outside of the conceptual frameworks developed for it. Where once terrorism was thought to be mainly targeted attacks on political targets for symbolic value to highlight a particular political problem, it now has changed to include mass attacks on civilians as a tactic in low-level guerrilla warfare. <br />While Laqueur's account focuses mainly on the present-day phenomenon of Islamist-inspired terrorism, it also spends time on other terror groups with other agendas, and it's always informed by the general history of terrorism. In his chapter on suicide, for example, he not only writes about the obvious acts like 9-11 and the Palestinian attacks on Israel, but also mentions the Japanese kamikaze attacks during WW2 and the European idea of noble sacrifice in the Middle Ages. Laqueur's purpose in providing this context is to show that while the potential devastation by terror attacks has increased, the essential motivations triggering them still have historical precedents. <br />This is not another book on terrorism by someone who discovered the subject only after the attacks on 9-11. Laqueur has been studying the issue for more than three decades and his bibliography reveals sources taken from at least six different languages, including Russian, German and Arabic. What mars an otherwise great book are the author's clunky style and his sometimes questionable use of historical examples that he compares to modern terrorism.	2003-07-18
US	52833543	R1P26CSPKZ34EG	0385503024	417958158	World on Fire: How Exporting Free Market Democracy Breeds Ethnic Hatred and Global Instability	Books	4	70	80	N	N	Detailing the Volatile Mix of Globalization and Ethnicity	Amy Chua has written an important book on how the accumulation of wealth by what she calls \\"market-dominant minorities\\" threatens globalization. By looking at a series of case studies, some of which she has personal experience with, Chua shows that the tendency of some minorities to benefit disproportionately, when their countries' markets open up to the world, inflames ethnic hatred among the ethnicities who make up the bulk of those countries' populations.<BR> <BR>Ethnicity is used as a sociological concept in this book, not a genetic or national concept. Thus, the overseas Chinese in Southeast Asia, Lebanese in West Africa, Jews in Russia, whites in Latin America and Africa, and various African tribes in Africa are all considered as case studies of market-dominant minorities, despite their various differences.<BR> <BR>Some ethnicities are thoroughly assimilated by their host countries; some are not. Some are citizens of their host country; some are not. Some rely on key cultural differences to take advantage of globalization while others simply had an advantageous history that allowed them to fill key niches in expanding markets. <br />But however you define ethnicity, and whatever allows these fortunate minorities to take advantage of spreading markets, the key point is that certain minorities, separate from and identifiable to the bulk of the population, have a hugely disproportionate influence in these expanding national economies. And the bulk of the population sees what is going on and is not happy about it.<BR> <BR>Chua is comprehensive (perhaps too comprehensive -- more on that later) but doesn't get bogged down in details; as a result, this is an easy book to read.  She looks at numerous aspects of ethnicity and globalization, from the economic and political implications, and even examines the question of assimilation and mixed blood with the fascinating case of Thailand's Chinese population. <br />But \\"World on Fire\\" begins to lose some of its force as Chua takes on too many cases.  Near the end, she looks at the former Yugoslavia and the Middle East. While she clearly qualifies her remarks here by saying that the problems in these areas do not stem from globalization alone, she nevertheless is too eager to show some connection between them. She would have been better served, I think, to understand the limits of her theory and to apply it only where it clearly had some explanatory power.	2003-07-04
US	52833543	RTA8NNSZMIA03	0802139434	600618684	The Future Eaters: An Ecological History of the Australasian Lands and People	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Superb &quot;Biography&quot; of Australasia	Tim Flannery has written what can only be described as a the most comprehensive history imaginable of the lands making up present-day Australia, New Zealand, New Guinea, and New Caledonia.  His fascinating account starts with the earliest breakaway of those lands from the super continent Gondwana, more than forty million years ago, and goes right up to the present-day, ending with Flannery's recommendations for preserving Australia's unique ecology.<br />Despite this mind-blowing multimillion-year scope of a territory covering an enormous area, the book never falters in its readability or interest.  Much of it is highly speculative (as even the author occasionally admits), but Flannery presents enough evidence to make his hypotheses almost always seem plausible.  I most enjoyed the comparison of the ecologies of New Caledonia, New Zealand, New Guinea, and Australia -- despite their proximity, they are entirely different places, and those differences are reflected in their histories.  Flannery's account of the destruction of megafauna in Australia and New Zealand is also well-told.<br />There should be more of these kinds of books: &quot;biographies&quot; of not just a land, but an entire continent (and its neighbors).  Flannery has also written a similar book on North America, called &quot;The Eternal Frontier&quot;, that rivals this book in its scope and excellence, but with that single exception, I can't think of any other ecological history that does such a fine job over so wide a range.	2003-07-04
US	52833543	R265UADISL4H1Z	0517595001	860072810	At Home with Books: How Booklovers Live with and Care for Their Libraries	Books	5	77	77	N	N	A Bibliophile's Delight	Where do you put hundreds, a thousand, even several thousand books? Here are some examples from book collectors, writers, and even a Rolling Stone.<BR> <BR>&quot;At Home with Books&quot; highlights, with photos and text, more than two dozen offices, libraries, and studies in the U.S. and Great Britain, covering every kind of room where you might want to put a book.  From large and impressive home libraries, where the books are more on display than they are for reading, to small offices, where ease-of-use is of key importance, to places where most people wouldn't even think of putting a lot of books, such as kitchens and hallways - nearly every kind of place where you might imagine a book is here.<BR> <BR>Magnificent, stately rooms are included as well as the cramped quarters of a poet; the most post-modern designs imaginable to the most traditional. One of the more interesting parts in the book is the home library of Keith Richards, the guitarist for The Rolling Stones and, apparently, an inveterate reader.  My personal favorite, though, was the author Frances Fitzgerald's library in her Manhattan apartment that she shares with her journalist husband.  It was a room I could imagine putting my own books.<BR> <BR>\\"At Home with Books&quot; also includes useful information on how to care for your books, how to plan a layout for that future library you might build someday, and how to light your library.  It has sections on bookplates and binding books, a resource directory on rare book dealers and the great libraries of the world.  If you have any interest in books and the rooms they are found in, then look no further.	2003-07-03
US	52833543	R1VQH6K7XS53ET	0465031269	416185932	Why Is Sex Fun?: The Evolution of Human Sexuality (Science Masters)	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Why This Book is Fun	This short work by the author of the classic \\"Guns, Germs, and Steel\\" seeks to explain the evolutionary paths of distinctive human sexual characteristics.  It does not, however, attempt to explain all sexual behavior in humans, focusing instead on general sexual behavior between men and women.  Masturbation, homosexuality, and many other types of sexual behavior are not touched upon here, so if you find any of them fun, you will have to look elsewhere for reasons explaining why.  <br />Humans have several sexual traits that, even if not unique, are still highly unusual in animal species -- concealed ovulation in females, near constant female receptivity to sex, recreational sex, and female menopause.  Diamond shows the most likely evolutionary explanations for why humans possess these traits.  Some of the explanations are more plausible than others, but almost all of the arguments are interesting to read.<br />As usual, Diamond writes well; the book is clear and concise and can be finished in an evening.  Also, as usual, Diamond can't help but let his politics show in his writing; in one chapter, he gives a bizarre boost to male lactation and the notion that men might someday help their wives breastfeed their young.	2003-07-03
US	52833543	R2ILADWJDIBNDL	0743223799	717864257	Gentleman Revolutionary: Gouverneur Morris, the Rake Who Wrote the Constitution	Books	4	29	29	N	N	A Good Biography, but Not One of Brookhiser's Best	Does Richard Brookhiser plan to write a biography for every single Founding Father?  Based on the three books of his I've read so far (on George Washington, Alexander Hamilton, and now Gouverneur Morris), one can only hope so.  <br />Brookhiser's latest biography is of a somewhat neglected Founding Father, whose greatest accomplishment was his authorship/editorial work of much of the U.S. Constitution.  Late in his life, Morris also played an invaluable, but often overlooked role in pushing the U.S. to create a system of canals linking New York State's Atlantic coast with the northern interior of North America.  (These canals were, once created, as important for the young country's economic growth in the early nineteenth century as railroads would be for it in the late nineteenth century.)<br />For a major public figure, Morris led a balanced life.  His serious pursuits did not keep him from enjoying women, travel and outings, or a well-told joke.  He was a good friend, especially towards those who he felt were unfairly treated by others.  As Morris would drift in and out of public service throughout his life, much of the biography focuses on this personal side of the man.<br />Brookhiser's skill as a biographer is to reveal aspects of his subject's character with just a well-written phrase or two.  He does this in a straightforward way without the need for any conceptual baggage (such as Freudianism).  Few biographers nowadays are willing to be so concise or risk interpreting their subjects in such a direct manner.  <br />But unlike with two of his previous and better-known subjects (Washington and Hamilton), Brookhiser is perhaps too brief in dealing with Morris's life.  Whereas the basic outlines of both Washington and Hamilton's lives are fairly well-known to most readers, and therefore more amenable to Brookhiser's kind of abbreviation, Morris's life is not.  As a result, the transitions in Morris's life covered in the book seem to rush by and background information is uneven.  This is still a fine work, one I can easily recommend, but it is not as impressive as Brookhiser's earlier biographies.	2003-06-29
US	52833543	RMDSVORD9NV4J	0750641304	386380648	New Asian Emperors	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Simply Overrated	This is a good, but not a great book on the so-called Overseas Chinese, focusing on their business culture and strategy.  Co-written by three professors, the work has an academic feel to it, but can also serve as a primer for businessmen wanting to learn about their SE Asian Overseas Chinese counterparts. <br />This book does not deserve a five-star rating.  It is simplistic, and likely to be of value only to the person who has no experience or knowledge of Asia and the Overseas Chinese.  Some of the text is unnecessary.  Why did the authors put in a rough history of early Chinese philosophy?  It's too simple to be valuable and yet takes up too much room in an already short work.<br />The book does have some good points.  I enjoyed the sketches of certain Overseas Chinese business leaders, some of whom I knew nothing about.  There is also some original research here on the business environment in SE Asia, specifically on the lack of information that helps the Overseas Chinese maintain an edge against outside competitors in their home markets.	2003-06-17
US	52833543	R2YZJXWRAJUEZ3	1401300049	405837845	Air Force One: A History of the Presidents and Their Planes	Books	4	12	15	N	N	An Enjoyable, Light Book	This book could have been subtitled: \\"A History of Presidential Character as Revealed through Their Planes.\\" Beginning with FDR and ending with the current main passenger of Air Force One, George W. Bush, Kenneth Walsh details the history and experiences of U.S. presidents who have taken to the air on the world's most famous jet, providing a fascinating angle by which to view them. <br />Walsh is careful to weave basic information about the presidents into the book. If you already know a good deal about the modern U.S. presidents, you will find much of this information either simplistic or repetitive. If you don't know very much about the modern presidents, however, but you want to know more about Air Force One, then you won't get lost here. <br />Walsh usually introduces each president with a brief history, and then shows convincingly that the planes they flew had a way of revealing the character of that president in a way that other places - the Oval Office, for example - did not. Reporters and staff, if they are fortunate enough to be allowed on board the jet, have access to a president that they do not have anywhere else. Presidents also seem to open up more when they fly Air Force One. Both of these circumstances allow a unique opportunity to see the usually powerful and distant man unfiltered.<br />While the historical moments that took place on Air Force One are all here (LBJ's swearing in as president just after the assassination of JFK; George W. Bush's long flight around the country after the terror attacks on 9-11, etc.), I personally found the trivial or less famous information more interesting. I had never heard, for example, that Nixon's Air Force One had to take evasive maneuvers during a trip to the Middle East after it appeared Syrian fighter jets might attack it (they were mistakenly sent up to welcome the Presidential jet). I also had no idea that secure communications on the president's hi-tech plane are often disrupted while it is in flight.<br/>This is a light book that can be finished in an evening of reading. My only disappointment with it was the lack of basic drawings of the interior setup of Air Force One or drawings of the insides of previous presidential jets. I don't think the information is classified (since Walsh describes it in words), so it would have been interesting to see the various layouts.	2003-06-09
US	52833543	R3LIDWOAWCARNO	0375412158	520721490	The End of the American Era: U.S. Foreign Policy and the Geopolitics of the Twenty-first Century	Books	2	52	60	N	N	Strategic Capitulation	Almost everyone agrees the current U.S. ascendancy in global politics is temporary. Even conservative commentator Charles Krauthammer says Americans should enjoy their current geopolitical dominance because it will not last. In \\"The End of the American Era,\\" Charles Kupchan also thinks that American dominance is temporary and believes a strategy is needed by which the U.S. transfers some of its global responsibilities to other emerging powers. <br />He begins his book by addressing the shortcomings of other recent major conceptual frameworks of global politics as conceived by Frances Fukuyama, Samuel Huntington, Paul Kennedy and Robert Kaplan (who Kupchan groups together), John Mearsheimer, and Thomas Friedman. The flaw in all of these thinkers, according to Kupchan, is that none of them have recognized the most important fundamentals of the present global system, which is America's current overwhelming power and the fact that its hegemony cannot last.<br />If the U.S. is in decline, who will take its place? Kupchan believes a united Europe is rising and that East Asia (China and Japan) is not far behind. In this global environment, and because of U.S. domestic tendencies towards isolationism, he thinks a grand strategy is necessary for the U.S. to smoothly make the transition from a unipolar world to a multipolar one. While Kupchan is not entirely clear about the timing of this transition, in at least one area of the book he says Europe is about a decade away from forming a credible alternative axis of world power and East Asia about three decades away. Other countries - mostly Russia, sometimes India - are also mentioned in places throughout the book as potential poles, but without much detail. <br />Europe is the main object of Kupchan's attention. According to his argument, Europe's ever-growing economic and political solidarity will soon naturally give rise to geopolitical power. If the U.S. cedes some of its power to Europe now in preparation of that development, a healthy relationship will grow between the two; if not, then we can expect a bumpy ride on the way to multipolarity.<br />While I agree with some of Kupchan's premises, such as the inevitable relative decline of U.S. power and the likelihood that the new world will be multipolar, I disagree with both his vision of what that new world will look like as well as his suggestion for a grand U.S. strategy on how to handle it. <br />Contrary to Kupchan's thinking, Europe has neither the will nor the military to become a geopolitical force within the next decade. If economics and some shared values were all that was required, Europe would have become an alternative axis of power rivaling the U.S. years ago. Instead, as the crisis over the U.S.-led war in Iraq makes clear, if the Europeans are ever going to be a geopolitical force, they will need institutions to make common and *binding* diplomatic and defense policies that override the national priorities of their constituent states. And even if they have these institutions, the money will have to be found to build a first-rate military. With many European nations heavily in debt, and a demographic crisis looming on the continent, where will this money come from? Kupchan brushes aside these difficulties. <br />Europe's common military does not have to rival America's, but it must have power projection capabilities to both Eastern Europe and the Middle East. If it doesn't, then Europe will still require the United States to enforce stability in those areas using its military power when other measures have failed. After all, a resurgent Russia might still haunt the future of Eastern Europe, and Europe, as a whole, is far more dependent on Middle East oil than the U.S. Nothing we see today shows Europe will be ready to handle those responsibilities any time soon.<br />The less said about Kupchan's thoughts on East Asia, the better. His brief sections on the region and the countries in it are surprisingly thin, devoid offresh thinking, or even proof he did anymore than just remedial reading on the area. What's more, his vision of how U.S. strategy fits into the region is shockingly nave, envisioning the United States leading the way towards a sort of united East Asia by - among other things - helping Japan and China to forsake old enmities. That's not strategy; that's fantasy. Even Kupchan admits as much.<br />There is a common theme to this book. No matter what the region or area - whether it's to Europe, East Asia, or international institutions - Kupchan's strategy calls for the U.S. giving up power. This seems an odd strategy for what is still by far the most powerful country in the world and what is likely to remain the most powerful country in the world for the foreseeable future. Wouldn't a realist at least call for giving up power in one region where it is less needed so that it could be at least partially redeployed somewhere else where it is more needed? Instead, Kupchan seems to think that U.S. power is a cheap currency to be spent on dubious schemes such as pushing Chinese/Japanese reconciliation. <br />By showing he has only one general prescription to fit every region's future, Kupchan signals he is less interested in seeing the shifting balance of world power as it is, and putting forth a strategy to deal with it, than he is in pushing an ideology of world power that he feels comfortable with. The final section of the book gives a clue as to why, showing he is highly downbeat about America's future. Interestingly enough, having dismissed Robert Kaplan's vision of a splintering world divided between north and south, he buys into Kaplan's view of the United States as a splintering country. Kupchan believes that even as the U.S. helps the rest of the world come together (Europe and Russia/China and Japan/north and south), regions within the states themselves are destined to grow apart. This ending is a contradictory and absurd coda to an already faltering book.	2003-06-09
US	52833543	R1XEPRCMTLXBVW	0380720027	218105535	The End of History and the Last Man	Books	5	296	323	N	N	A Misunderstood Masterpiece	After 9-11, it became easy to make fun of \\"The End of History and The Last Man\\".  The book's title suggested to some a triumphant valedictory for liberal democracy, and yet the epitome of liberal democratic values -- the West -- was now mired in another seemingly endless struggle.  Especially for those who never read the work, the phrase \\"the end of history\\" became something one only said with scorn.  Cynics felt obligated to point out that one more philosophy of the world had fallen into the meat grinder of history, never to be seen again.<br />But this book still has relevance in the post 9-11 world.  Despite the vulgarization of its title, Fukuyama did not predict an end to conflict.  What's more, he also did not cast the future in an unremittingly optimistic light.  In some ways his themes -- particularly in the second half of the book when he focuses on the Nietzschean concept of The Last Man -- are decidedly darker than even keen reviewers of the work have noted.  Liberal democracy may have triumphed, but its victory had costs for the collective psyche of its denizens.<br />\\"The End of History and The Last Man\\" came out in the wake of the fall and breakup of the Soviet Union.  With the collapse of global communism, Fukuyama claimed the fundamental values of liberal democracy and market capitalism were now unchallenged.  What's more, no other ideologies on the horizon appeared attractive or effective enough to usurp them -- ever.  Yes, some countries or regions might fall under the sway of an ideology (Islamic fundamentalism) or a cultural conceit (Asian values), but too much of the globe now accepted that societies should be organized under the principles of liberal democracy and market capitalism for there ever to be a major reversal in its fortunes around the world.  Thus, ideological conflict on a global scale was over.  And so history -- in the Hegelian sense of the clash of competing ideologies -- was over as well.<br />What kind of man would this post-historical world create?  Fukuyama explores this in the second half of the book - a section I feel is neglected by too many readers.  Here, Fukuyama shifts his conceptual lens from the philosophy of Hegel and its focus on ideological conflict as the motor of history to the psychological insights of Friedrich Nietzsche.  Having used Hegel to show how history might be ending, he now uses Nietzsche to show how empty and meaningless this ending might become.  We have reached the end of the history, Fukuyama claims, but Nietzsche shows how unsatisfying that endpoint is.  What happens when men are all recognized as equal and the struggle for everything except the accumulation of more material goods is over?  What will they value?<br />\\"The End of History and The Last Man\\" and its themes will outlast its critics.  9-11 did not restart history, because Islamic fundamentalism does not represent the same serious ideological competitor that was once represented by communism.  (It's highly doubtful that even a majority of Muslims desire it, and whatever the case in the Muslim countries, it's certainly true that its attractiveness is strictly limited to those of the Islamic faith.)  This beautifully written book weaves different strands of philosophy, international relations, and political science into a brilliant argument that overwhelms simplistic criticisms of it.  There are weak points to Fukuyama's arguments in the book - some of which he addressed himself later in his career - but few recognize them.  The book still deserves a careful reading.  Serious political and social commentators will be dealing with its arguments for some time.	2003-06-03
US	52833543	R16XRB6MN59YLR	0801488052	193306515	Taiwan: A Political History	Books	4	25	28	N	N	A Well-Written and Up-To-Date Survey	Roy touches on nearly every major political event in Taiwan's history, from the earliest impact of the first Chinese and Europeans to claim its territory, to Japanese colonialism, to land reform, to the island's role in the Cold War, to the rise and consolidation of its democracy.  Everyone from Koxinga to Chen Shui-bian, and everything from the 2-28 Incident to the recent controversy over Chen's handling of the fourth nuclear power plant, is covered.<br />Despite this thoroughness, the book is fairly short.  Roy writes concisely and clearly, but still manages to make smooth transitions between different political themes in Taiwan's history.  The middle section of the book is the best, consisting of an excellent write-up on Taiwan's role in the Cold War as well as a chapter on the political reformers' struggle against martial law and KMT dominance.<br />For most of the book Roy relies on a good mix of both Chinese- and English-language sources.  I was disappointed, however, to see him relying almost exclusively on English-language sources over the last fifty pages.  Taiwan's print media are addicted to scandal-mongering, but in the hands of someone who knows how to use them, they are still the best source of information on Taiwan's political scene -- far better than any of the English-language newspapers.<br />In spite of this lapse, this is an outstanding survey of Taiwan.  Roy has good command of the material and writes well.  Even in areas I thought I knew, he usually added something to my knowledge.	2003-05-23
US	52833543	R1UE7QYG71LXKH	0393010244	706332987	The Mission: Waging War and Keeping Peace With America's Military	Books	3	5	6	N	N	A Riveting Account Hijacked by Faulty Analysis	Dana Priest writes very well. No matter the subject in this book -- whether its CINCs, Special Forces, or peacekeeping -- she captures your attention. She knows how to tell a story, and write colorful vignettes of the people in it. (Whether they're accurate or not, I have no idea, but they are fun to read.)<br />Unfortunately, Priest wants her collection of well-written reports to mean something, and it is here -- whenever she moves from narrative to analysis -- that her book runs aground. Her main notion seems sound enough: that the U.S. military is too often in the front lines of diplomacy and peacekeeping, both because it is so strong and the U.S. diplomatic corps is so weak. This condition, she claims, attenuates both the U.S. military and U.S. diplomacy. <br />But Priest's details do not support her thesis. In one chapter she writes about the confrontation between the new U.S. ambassador to Indonesia, Robert Gelbard, and the U.S. military commander of the forces in the Pacific, Dennis Blair, on what policy the U.S. should take with Indonesia's military over human rights abuses in East Timor. Gelbard wants to cut off military-to-military contacts while Blair wants to maintain them. Despite his lack of nominal authority over U.S. policy in Indonesia, Blair's view wins out.<br />Priest thinks this is an example of how the U.S. military is able to overpower U.S. diplomacy because of the military's greater funding. But is it? In her summary of events, Priest makes clear Blair did not so much overpower Gelbard as outmaneuver him. Blair had to push the matter up to the National Security Council in Washington before it was finally decided in his favor. That kind of bureaucratic infighting is both common and acceptable to the policy-making process. One hardly needs to be well-funded to excel at it.<br />Priest also recounts the sad tale of the rape and murder of a Kosovar girl by a U.S. military \\"peacekeeper\\". It is one of the centerpieces of her account in the last third of the book showing the ineffectiveness of the U.S. military at handling peacekeeping duties in Kosovo. At times she seems to suggest that U.S. troops should just be out killing things rather than trying to keep the peace. In this section, she even gives an anecdote of some U.S. troops in Kosovo who, while driving their tank through traffic, lose their patience, and demand to be given immediate passage through a red light.<br />Priest seems too easily offended to imagine what the situation might have been like without U.S. troops on the ground in Kosovo. Unable to successfully carry out their mission of protecting the minority Serbs in Kosovo from reprisal attacks, the troops' presence at least gave some orderliness to what would have certainly been much worse if they had not been there. And it's very difficult to come up with a plausible scenario where U.S. diplomats would have been more successful at completing the near impossible mission the troops were given. <br />An isolated rape case and some impatient troopers at a traffic stop shouldn't be emblematic of U.S. military peacekeeping efforts. It's unfortunate that Priest doesn't show a better appreciation of how difficult these missions are, and the unlikelihood that U.S. diplomats - even when armed with cash and executive support - would be any better at solving them.	2003-05-23
US	52833543	R1O6M8UJO27VSV	0674010744	864621697	Lyndon Johnson and Europe: In the Shadow of Vietnam	Books	4	2	3	N	N	An Academic History with Surprising Contemporary Relevance	This history focuses on LBJ's policies toward Western Europe (primarily Germany, France and Britain) during his presidency, and seeks to overturn the prevailing academic view that the Johnson administration failed to make progress on key issues with the Europeans. Schwartz claims that Johnson's troubles in Vietnam as well as his preference for domestic policy have overshadowed his very real accomplishments in this area of foreign policy. <br />LBJ was faced with several overlapping problems in Europe. Britain was enduring an economic crunch that hurt its ability to maintain military forces in Germany, the Middle East and SE Asia, and thus help the U.S. provide security for the Cold War; Under De Gaulle, France was actively challenging U.S. hegemony in Western Europe; meanwhile, Germany's self-confidence was reviving, allowing it to push for more say on the alliance's nuclear weapons and on German reunification. As a whole, Europe was moving towards more economic and political integration -- a process that the U.S. both encouraged and hoped to manage.<br />Schwartz does a fine job explaining the different European issues and how they interacted. He is also good at explaining the motivations and constraints LBJ faced when making European policy. I thought his reassessment of Johnson's performance at the end of the book, however, a little too glowing. There doesn't seem to be anything about Johnson's policies that Schwartz finds fault with. A reassessment should be a reassessment, not a whitewash.<br />While neither George W. Bush nor Jacques Chirac nor Gerhard Schroeder is mentioned one time in this history, the book still has a surprising contemporary relevance. As a professional historian, Schwartz maintains his focus on LBJ and the Europe of the mid-60s. But for the general reader, it is hard not to see the similarities between that time and today's cross-Atlantic relationships.<br />Like Bush, Johnson faced a Europe unsympathetic to one of his primary foreign policy goals (the war in Vietnam for Johnson; the war in Iraq for Bush). Like Bush, Johnson's main European challenger was France, and that challenge was vigorous. Like Bush, Johnson's style was perceived by Europeans as too crude (both were unfortunate to follow presidents who were very popular in Europe, and who were considered bright and sophisticated men). <br />Some events and rhetoric from the 1960s look as if you could just change the dates and names and insert them into an article today. When the U.S. escalates the war in Vietnam, De Gaulle calls American foreign policy \\"more and more threatening for the peace of the world\\". The Vietnam War is also among the chief causes for a precipitous drop in German public opinion towards the U.S.: when asked if the basic interests of their country are in agreement with the U.S., only 16% of Germans in 1966 answered yes, compared to 70% just a year earlier. Some in the German leadership were also upset with what they felt was a lack of consultation on the part of Johnson.  There are numerous examples like this in the book.  Even if you have no interest in LBJ's foreign policy, you still might find this book valuable in looking at Bush's foreign policy by way of comparison.	2003-05-17
US	52833543	RZOA84RTQPKRA	0465084125	244586833	The New Chinese Empire: Bejing's Political Dilemma And What It Means For The United States	Books	4	26	33	N	N	International Relations, China-Style	Ross Terrill sees continuity between the past and the present in China's domestic politics and international relations.  The imperial system, he believes, is still the fundamental structure in which China's leaders make decisions, even in the twenty-first century, and even after more than fifty years of Communist rule.  <br />That leaders like Mao and Deng (and even Jiang) were emperors in all but name is something of a clich, but Terrill gives a fresh perspective to this commonly-held notion.  He is well-read in China's history, and shows it here to good effect without weighing himself down with excessive scholarship.  His style is light and well-suited to his approach: prove a point to the general reader's satisfaction and then move on.<br />By far the most interesting sections of Terrill's book are those having to do with China's world view.  China has traditionally looked upon not just the rest of East Asia, but even the rest of the world as an extension of China itself.  This was not so much a ruling concept as it was a pervasive ruling assumption, and it formed the basis for imperial China.  When China was strong, this assumption allowed it to swallow up other areas from Tibet to Vietnam without elaborate conceptual justifications; when China was weak, the assumption was still in force through tributary relations or complex diplomatic relations that allowed Beijing to appear to have the upper hand even when it did not.  Circumstances may change, but the assumption is never questioned. <br />Terrill draws numerous parallels between imperial China and today's new China.  Beijing still seeks to punch above its weight by formalizing relationships with other countries in ways China prefers even when it cannot immediately achieve its aims (this explains why China puts such stress on its \\"One-China\\" policy with the United States).  What is remarkable, he argues, is not so much that China would use this strategy as how successful it is in doing so.  Other nations -whether out of excessive respect for China's culture or fear of losing access to China's market - bow down and accede to many of China's demands.<br />In the area of international relations, this book should be viewed as the counterpoint to \\"The Great Wall and the Empty Fortress: China's Search for Security.\\"  Whereas the authors of that book, Andrew Nathan and Robert Ross, view China as fundamentally conservative in its international outlook, Terrill sees it as potentially destabilizing.	2003-05-12
US	52833543	R3SBR8YEDNCJI7	0195101669	322227170	Literacy and Script Reform in Occupation Japan: Reading between the Lines	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A Fine, Scholarly Book	This short work has wider implications than its title suggests. While a SCAP-sponsored education experiment on language reform is the centerpiece of the book, J. Marshall Unger has broadened the scope of his piece to include short but interesting write-ups on literacy in the Tokugawa, Meiji, and pre-war periods as well as Japanese indigenous efforts to reform their script during that same time frame.<br />This work might appeal to you even if you have no interest in what SCAP was doing during the occupation. An interest in the romanization of East Asian scripts or literacy issues would be enough. Unger writes well and has a certain fiery opinionatedness to him that belies what most people would consider his dull subject matter. He is passionate about the topic, and takes sides, but always with evidence and arguments.	2003-05-08
US	52833543	RQZGAIQ8SLHUT	0812237110	355032384	The Writing on the Wall: How Asian Orthography Curbs Creativity (Encounters with Asia)	Books	2	58	61	N	N	A Steep Drop-Off from His Last Book	I looked forward to reading Hannas' most recent work, having greatly enjoyed his previous book, \\"Asia's Orthographic Dilemma\\". I knew Hannas to be both a thorough and entertaining scholar, with persuasive if somewhat controversial arguments; I believed that if he kept up the same standards he showed in his last book, I would probably enjoy this one as well.<br />Unfortunately, \\"The Writing on the Wall\\" fails to deliver. In the book, Hannas seeks to prove a bold thesis -- that the creativity of East Asians (Chinese, Koreans, and Japanese) is hampered by their scripts. He narrowly defines \\"creativity\\" as the ability to come up with revolutionary ideas in modern science.<br />The first third of the book starts off badly. Hannas runs through the various methods that Japan, China, and Korea use to acquire Western -- primarily U.S. -- technology. But, surprisingly, he seems to think that just by highlighting this well-known fact, he already proves one of his main points: that East Asians lack creativity. He does this by completely ignoring context and making inapt comparisons.<br />South Korea, for example, has an economy and population about the size of Spain. What sense does it make to compare South Korean research efforts to those by U.S. scientists? In that kind of comparison, South Korea will naturally come up short. But would it come up short in a comparison with a country of its own size and development, one that used an alphabetic script?  Hannas doesn't even consider it.<br />And while China is a huge country, its ability to provide first-rate R&D facilities and the funding to run them is greatly limited (I don't even include the obvious point that China's basic educational infrastructure is so weak in comparison to the developed countries in the West that such spending would probably be wasted anyway, even if it had the money). Does this mean the Chinese are not creative? Or is the more likely explanation that China's development is not high or broad enough yet to support those kinds of projects? Hannas doesn't even consider these questions.<br />Japan, however, is a large and fully developed economy, flush with cash (even after ten years in an economic rut), and equipped with a solid educational infrastructure. Certainly a comparison between it and the U.S. is worthwhile to consider. But even here, Hannas does not explore the issue enough. He admits, for example, that Japanese corporations are where most of the country's R&D money is spent, and where practical applications are put at a premium; he also says Japan spends less per capita on R&D than the U.S. But he doesn't connect the dots. Isn't a more parsimonious explanation for why Japan appears less creative than the U.S. due to economic rather than linguistic factors?<br />In another section of the book, Hannas argues that the development of an alphabetic script gave rise to Greek science. He does not consider, however, why the Romans - who also had an alphabetic script - had a stable, long-lasting, wealthy, and relatively free (for its time) empire not noted for its science. Again, Hannas does not consider these points, probably because he would have to admit they do grave damage to his thesis.<br />There are other arguments to consider. In the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, some said the U.S. didn't have enough creative people, that its collective mindset was of a more practical bent than theoretical. It could produce a Ford, but not an Einstein. Not until just before WW2, after a large influx of European scientists into the U.S., did this situation change. Could the U.S. have produced the atomic bomb or gone to the moon without these Europeans? Would its universities be as well respected as they are now if these scientists had not been forced or felt compelled to leave their homes to come to the United States? Not likely. Hannas' refusal to consider these other cases in his comparative study raises questions about the validity of his arguments for the cases he does consider.<br />Perhaps to deflect such criticism of his thesis, Hannas says several times in his book that his idea about East Asians lacking creativity is not controversial in East Asia, that it is the conventional wisdom there. But Hannas bucks the conventional wisdom so often in his book - especially in linguistics - I'm not sure why he would take the East Asians' word for this particular commonly known fact. In my experience, East Asians are very hard on themselves in some areas, unwilling to take credit where credit might be due. Part of the reason they are such fearsome competitors is due to this nature. That they hold symposiums on the lack of creativity in their schools has probably as much to do with their perceived second-rate status in this area as it has to do with anything else; in other words, if they are not the best, they consider it a problem.<br />Due to space constraints, I cannot go over the final two-thirds of the book in any detail. Suffice it to say, the book improves somewhat, but not enough to save it. Hannas does cite an enormous amount of interesting studies in these chapters, but unfortunately he is still unable to make a coherent argument. Instead he tries a scatter-shot approach against the East Asian scripts, hoping that enough of his material hits the mark to do damage. Some does; some doesn't. What one finally comes away with from this book is similar to what one came away with from Hannas' first book: East Asian scripts are unwieldy and inefficient. But the author fails to advance his new case that they actually inhibit scientific creativity.cases he does consider.<br />Perhaps to deflect such criticism of his thesis, Hannas says several times in his book that his idea about East Asians lacking creativity is not controversial in East Asia, that it is the conventional wisdom there. But Hannas bucks the conventional wisdom so often in his book - especially in linguistics - I'm not sure why he would take the East Asians' word for this particular commonly known fact. In my experience, East Asians are very hard on themselves in some areas, unwilling to take credit where credit might be due. Part of the reason they are such fearsome competitors is due to this nature. That they hold symposiums on the lack of creativity in their schools has probably as much to do with their perceived second-rate status in this area as it has to do with anything else; in other words, if they are not the best, they consider it a problem. <br />Due to space constraints, I cannot go over the final two-thirds of the book in any detail. Suffice it to say, the book improves somewhat, but not enough to save it. Hannas does cite an enormous amount of interesting studies in these chapters, but unfortunately he is still unable to make a coherent argument. Instead he tries a scatter-shot approach against the East Asian scripts, hoping that enough of his material hits the mark to do damage. Some does; some doesn't. What one finally comes away with from this book is similar to what one came away with from Hannas' first book: East Asian scripts are unwieldy and inefficient. But the author fails to advance his new case that they actually inhibit scientific creativity.	2003-05-07
US	52833543	R1FROUQVF6OT0S	0399144498	281434626	Lindbergh	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Straightforward Account of a Compelling Life	It is not just Lindbergh's flight across the Atlantic in The Spirit of St Louis, or the infamous kidnapping/murder of his first child, or his frontline position as a crusader for the isolationists before WW2 that makes this book so fascinating to read; it is also the details of his life that one rarely thinks about: his work on an artificial heart pump, his environmental work, his interest in the world's tribes and their way of life. Lindbergh's range of interests and his energy in pursuing them drive this biography.<br />This book seems as if it was written using the \\"point the camera and shoot\\" philosophy. Berg does a creditable job laying out Lindbergh's life, but there's nothing flashy about his book. The prose is solid and workmanlike. Tangents into other issues of Lindbergh's times are kept to a minimum. Berg sometimes gets bogged down in less interesting areas of Lindbergh's life such as mundane family matters, but he maintains enough momentum to push through without too much damage to the narrative. <br />Lindbergh, however, doesn't need a brilliant biographer; he brought enough energy to his life and fulfilled enough of his great ambitions to capture any reader's interest. This is a very good book and worthy of much of the praise it has received here, but that has more to do with the subject of the book than with its author.	2003-05-05
US	52833543	R2CEA03TSCAA0Z	0393047644	510021043	The Future of Freedom: Illiberal Democracy at Home and Abroad	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A Great Beginning, But Falls Off at the End	Most Westerners would probably agree that democracy is the best political system for any group of people, anywhere in the world.  From China to Chile, from Latvia to Laos, the cure for what ails the body politic is to set up a democracy, and let public opinion naturally take its benevolent course.  Western pressure from governments, and through international organizations and NGOs, has often pushed developing countries into taking that path.  But is democracy -- defined strictly here as one-man/one-vote -- the right path for them to take?   <br />In \\"The Future of Freedom,\\" Fareed Zakaria says that this is an incomplete question.  It is not, he argues, so much that democracy is the right or wrong path; instead it is more accurate to say democracy is but a part of the process of development and a capstone to successful modernization.  Zakaria explains that liberalization -- state-guaranteed civil and economic freedoms -- preceded democratic reforms in both most successful democracies of the West and, more recently, in the consolidated democracies of the developing world.  To strip democracy of this context is to misunderstand it and to jeopardize its continued success.  This is why so many states struggle to consolidate their democracies and often slip back into anarchy or dictatorship.<br />Zakaria gives a tightly argued rundown of political systems around the world, finishing off with a very good chapter on the problems of democratization in the Islamic world (spotty record: some good, some bad), especially the Arab world (terrible record -- almost no good news to report).  In this section, Zakaria is confident as he surveys the political situation around the globe, as one would expect from the editor of Foreign Affairs.<br />However, in the final two chapters, Zakaria turns to the United States to broaden his attack on democracy, and it is here that his book begins to falter.  What was a sharp comparative analysis looking at different states in the international system transforms into an educated rant against -- among other things -- anti-elitism.  Zakaria says that the recent turn in the U.S. towards fuller participation in the political system has had the perverse effect of increasing voter apathy and antipathy towards that system.  He argues that elites need some space away from interest groups and public pressure if they are going to be able to run the state's affairs with any efficiency.  Zakaria clearly wants to use this part of the book to make a general point about democracy everywhere, but the linkage doesn't work.  It is one thing to make arguments about developing countries where there is some sort of template for success in consolidating democracy, but it's difficult to see what that has to do with fully developed democracies, where each of them is scratching their way towards some unknowable future.<br />Zakaria makes some fine points in this part of the book.  It's fascinating to see how little power California's governor and legislature have over their budget because of the public's ability in that state to vote directly on referendums and initiatives.  I also found it interesting that public opinion is so favorable towards the federal courts, the Federal Reserve, and the military, even though they are among the government agencies least susceptible to public opinion.  But despite these fair points, Zakaria's arguments here fail to coalesce into a strong case, and he clearly is not in his element in this section of the book.  As a whole, however, \\"The Future of Freedom\\" offers a sharp argument that democracy is not a panacea for politics, but a general goal to be lightly applied, especially in developing countries.	2003-04-27
US	52833543	R25YL8X6DM4SVD	0895261650	769863057	Shakedown: Exposing The Real Jesse Jackson	Books	4	34	36	N	N	Political Bias of Author Doesn't Spoil this Book	Kenneth Timmerman plainly doesn't like Jesse Jackson.  His views of the man color nearly every event detailed in this book.  He takes a hatchet to all facets of Jackson's career, from his controversial origins as a public figure after Martin Luther King's death to his fundraising activities to his diplomatic trips to Africa. <br />But one thing this book will convince you of is that if anyone deserves a hatchet chopping through his reputation, it's Jesse Jackson.  And perhaps only a partisan reporter -- one angry at what he sees Jackson doing -- would be determined enough to see the task through to completion.  As Timmerman notes when writing of other clashes between some journalists and Jackson, reporters have sometimes paid for crossing the \\"Reverend.\\"<br />In \\"Shakedown\\", the main case against Jackson is that he uses racial politics of division to enrich himself and a few wealthy black friends.  Timmerman details how in incident after incident Jackson intimidates companies to squeeze them for money in one form or another.  And Jackson's strategy is to foster a growth industry with some of that money going back to his organizations to be used for future confrontations against other companies.<br />Timmerman shows that Jackson isn't particularly concerned about the justice of his claims against the companies or in whether the average black person is helped by his actions.  The important goal for him is to get the money flowing out of the companies to his organizations.  All other issues are secondary.  And most companies usually go along with this extortion because they recognize it is cheaper than a boycott against their products would be.<br />But while Jackson's shakedown of U.S. corporations is the main topic of the book, it is not -- in my opinion -- the most damaging revelations.  Instead, I found Jackson's early but intimate connections to a notorious Chicago gang and his adventures with some of the bloodiest dictators on the continent of Africa to be far more revelatory.  At the best, one can accuse Jackson of horrible misjudgment in these relations; at the worst, he willingly associated with murderers for personal gain.<br />Whatever your politics, you are not likely to think of Jackson in a positive light after reading this book.  That the leadership of black protest has gone from Martin Luther King to Jesse Jackson to Al Sharpton over the last four decades shows what a dead end it has become.  This book simply shows that the progression from King to Jackson to Sharpton had a much steeper drop off between the first two names than it does between the last two.	2003-04-24
US	52833543	R97UCXX4SL9JU	0804734577	790772514	Shadow Shoguns: The Rise and Fall of Japan's Postwar Political Machine	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The Hidden Power Behind Japan's Political System	Why has Japan changed its prime ministers with such frequency through much of the post-war period?  Why did those prime ministers seem powerless to affect real change to the political system?  &quot;Shadow Shoguns&quot; answers these questions by way of a brilliantly told story of the Liberal Democratic Party's most powerful political faction called the &quot;gundan&quot;.  <br />The story of the \\"gundan\\" - which means \\"army corps\\" -- is primarily the story of the man who created and ruled over it for much of the 70s and 80s, Kakuei Tanaka.  Jacob Schlesinger spends more than half of &quot;Shadow Shoguns&quot; examining Tanaka's life, including his roots in the construction business, his entry into politics, how he made money work for him in consolidating political power, and finally, his fall from power.<br />Tanaka was a fascinating figure.  In many ways he was a combination of LBJ and Boss Tweed. His appetite for power and money was huge, and his experience in the construction industry gave him the ability to amass both.  Coming from one of the poorest prefectures in Japan, he fought hard to bring huge pork barrel construction projects back to his constituents, and they in turn gave him unflinching support even when he was charged with crimes and became a national symbol of corruption.<br />A scandal removed Tanaka from the prime minister's seat in 1974, but due to his constituents' support, it did not remove him from the parliament.  From then until the mid-80s, Tanaka would be the power behind the throne, using money from construction projects to strengthen his faction, and his faction to strengthen his hold over national politics.<br />What finally removed Tanaka from his position as leader over Japan's most powerful faction was not angry voters, other factions or their political leaders, but his own underlings.  Tanaka had attracted some of the most talented politicians in Japan to his faction, and handling those egos was a full-time job.  After a stroke in 1985, Tanaka was unable to reassert his power, and three of his protgs (Shin Kanemaru, Noburu Takeshita, and Ichiro Ozawa) wrenched the faction away from him.<br />The final third of the book focuses on those protgs, their strengthening of the faction, and finally the fall of their machine as Japan's economy began to flounder.  As Schlesinger tells it, the success of the faction was always predicated on continued strong economic growth.  When the Japanese economy faltered throughout the early 1990s, so did the mechanism by which the \\"gundan\\" governed Japan.<br />This is a book that gives vivid life to a political system and to politicians many people find boring.  Schlesinger shows that because Japan's most capable and interesting politicians operated out of the limelight for much of the last three decades, their story is a compelling one as well as the key to understanding the history of the modern Japanese political system.	2003-04-22
US	52833543	RUHFPOWJ6NFIZ	0679642811	448968193	The Crisis of Islam: Holy War and Unholy Terror	Books	5	46	56	N	N	A Brilliant Dense Gem of Explanatory Power	This is the second book the distinguished Bernard Lewis has put out since 9-11.  In the first -- \\"What Went Wrong\\" -- he sought to explain the failure of Middle Eastern societies to modernize and, as a result, how those societies responded towards the West, which had successfully modernized.  While there is some overlap with the themes in the first book, in \\"The Crisis of Islam\\" Lewis focuses his attention on the dominant religion of the Middle East, and seeks to explain how history influences relevant modern themes in Islam.<br />After defining the religion, and showing how much of the West's current problems with terrorism in the Middle East is a result of an ongoing war among competing visions in Islam, Lewis then gives a brief history of the term \\"jihad\\" and how the Islamic world has perceived the West (America, in particular).  He also describes the roots of so-called Islamic \\"fundamentalism\\", explaining the success of Saudi Arabia's promotion of the Wahhabi sect, and its unfortunate consequences for Islam as a whole.  <br />Lewis also writes a wonderful essay on the double standards in the West - particularly in the U.S. government -- towards Muslim countries, arguing that it feeds into Arab and Muslim resentment towards the United States.  That the champion of freedom and liberty has allied itself with many of the region's dictators and autocrats who persecute them strikes some in the Middle East as the deepest and most unforgivable hypocrisy.<br />This is a short book, and can be read in an evening, but it has a surprising comprehensiveness in its 164 pages.  Lewis's scholarship has been condensed down to a fine sharp point.  He has a talent for focusing on what's important and ignoring the rest.  The only caveat I give for my recommendation is that little in this book is new for those who have read much of Lewis' work.	2003-04-22
US	52833543	R15IX0JSHHJIRH	0066212855	817493742	Krakatoa: The Day the World Exploded	Books	4	40	43	N	N	Fascinating Account of the World's Most Famous Eruption	A few volcanoes have had larger eruptions.  One volcano -- also located in what is present-day Indonesia -- killed more people.  But no volcano has gripped the public's imagination all over the world like Krakatoa.<br />Simon Winchester explains that this was as much a matter of timing as it had to do with the deadly power of Krakatoa's eruption.  When it exploded in 1883, the world had just been linked together by underwater cables over the previous two decades.  News readers in the West were thus linked to events in the East with an immediacy they never had before.  <br />All around the world, scientists of the time were able to use this information when measuring and observing certain phenomenon in their own localities.  As Winchester points out, this was significant, marking the first time that scientists had proof of the interconnectedness of the world, that the globe was not just a hodgepodge of separate regions.<br />As some reviewers have already mentioned, perhaps the most remarkable part of the book is the chapter called &quot;Close Encounters on the Wallace Line&quot;.  Here Winchester shows how Alfred Russel Wallace's observation of distinct fauna on the Indonesian Archipelago, narrowly separated by the eponymous line that splits through the middle of the group of islands, in a way foretold the twentieth century discovery of continental plates and subduction -- the processes responsible for the volcano's terrible eruption.  (Wallace himself seems to have had an intuition that geological processes were responsible for two such different groups of animals being clustered together.)<br />After Winchester gives this context, he then moves on to the actual eruption of Krakatoa.  Here he explains in such detail about the events (and who wrote them down) leading up to the final eruption that he becomes more recorder than storyteller, and the story surprisingly becomes more comprehensive than interesting.  <br />I hasten to add that this part of book is still very hard to put down, but the sheer bulk of detail about who saw what, and how reliable they are as a witness of the event, might have been edited down a bit when the subject matter is so compelling.  Winchester is a good -- not a great -- writer, and he doesn't seem to have the ability to be both comprehensive and fascinating.  Some people may actually enjoy Winchester's decision to carefully go over the time frame, the witnesses, their reliability, and other details, but I found this focus on minutiae to detract somewhat from the overall quality of the book.	2003-04-22
US	52833543	R2MKNLO0L7ON6T	0812217624	957080836	War and Slavery in Sudan (The Ethnography of Political Violence)	Books	4	13	16	N	N	A Great Book, But Confusing on the Issue of Racism	...Of the half-dozen books I've read on Sudan, this is my favorite.  Although it is not a general work on the country, it does focus on two of its most well-known issues: the ongoing civil war and slavery.<br />Jok Madut Jok is a South Sudanese historian based in the United States.  His educational background and interviews with countless South Sudanese about their experiences with Arab slave raids makes this a scholarly book, while his perspective as a South Sudanese gives it an edge not usually associated with scholarship.  He clearly is pained by what is happening in Sudan, and does not attempt to give a balanced account here.  But whatever the book loses in objectivity, it more than makes up for in passion.<br />\\"War and Slavery in Sudan\\" is well-written and its concepts clear -- with one major exception.  I'm unsure what the author means when he talks about the role racism plays in the conflict and how racial ideology is the foundation of the slave trade in Sudan.  He appears to mean that the cultural arrogance of the Arabs in the north -- many of whom are black -- allows them to enslave and make war against some of the non-Muslim tribes in the south, but I'm not entirely clear on this point.  Despite this major lapse, however, this is still an excellent book for anyone interested in Sudan.	2003-02-07
US	52833543	R3G7CW9M184LZR	0393020258	847218561	The Tragedy of Great Power Politics	Books	3	23	35	N	N	Realism Makes a Weak Comeback	If you know something about the traditional case studies and academic theory in international relations, little in this book will be new to you.  Mearsheimer attempts to provide a somewhat different spin on Kenneth Waltz's concept of how states behave in the anarchic international environment by creating the concept &quot;offensive realism&quot;, but basically -- in both the case studies he looks at and most of the concepts he uses -- the book is just a rehash of traditional realism.<br />Mearsheimer writes well enough, however, that the book is still a good read.  I also appreciated his thoughtful skewering of the thesis in Fareed Zakaria's &quot;From Wealth to Power&quot;.  Mearsheimer makes the unassailable point that Zakaria's idea of the U.S.'s &quot;imperial understretch&quot; in the late nineteenth century fails to take into account the enormous effort required by the country to settle its recently conquered lands in the west.<br />But Mearsheimer should have spent more time on the recent challenges to traditional IR theory, including globalization, the democratic peace theory, and strengthened multilateral institutions.  Instead he deals with them perfunctorily at the end of the book.  Perhaps he is right that these recent developments do not change anything fundamental about the international environment, but a more serious consideration should have been given to the arguments since they are now so prevalent.	2003-02-05
US	52833543	R22X8T8TM41KML	1590170466	939405552	China's New Rulers: The Secret Files (New York Review Books Collections)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Fascinating Look at the Fourth Generation	Starting late last year, a new generation of leaders -- often referred to as the &quot;fourth generation&quot; -- began to take over the top posts in China.  This book is something of a scorecard of what we might be able to expect from them as they lead China.<br />Based on what is supposedly a Chinese insider's look at secret files on the new leaders, China scholars Andrew Nathan and Bruce Gilley write a highly readable account, focusing mainly on the seven men they expected to form the sixteenth Politburo Standing Committee (the book went to print before the announcement of the new leadership in November, 2002 -- however, most of the Chinese leaders it examines are still in power; with the exception of the early retirement of Li Ruihuan, it appears the authors were mainly correct in their early predictions).  <br />The authors also briefly deal with other PRC leaders, including the top women leaders and those early candidates for leading the fifth generation.  One of the final chapters focuses on the way the new leadership sees China's place in the world, including most importantly its relationship with the U.S.<br />This is a superb book that is not harmed by its being somewhat dated by recent events.  Its only flaw is there is no index, leaving a reader to flail around when he wants to reread sections on particular leaders.	2003-02-05
US	52833543	R1VO4LPU7QOA85	0199244170	795093139	Elections and Democracy in Greater China (Studies on Contemporary China)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Good Book, But Needs More on Taiwan	This book contains seven essays by various scholars on the development of democracy in Taiwan, Hong Kong and the PRC.  Each of the essays is readable and well-researched.  In two cases -- in an essay by Richard Baum on the real meaning of Hong Kong's 1998 legislative elections and in the essay by Tianjian Shi on the compatibility of democracy with modern cultural values in the PRC -- I found the book changed the way I previously thought about the issues.<br />Unfortunately, Taiwan's stunning democratic development over the last two decades is ignored.  Of the seven essays in the book, four are about the PRC, two are on Hong Kong, but only one deals with Taiwan -- and that piece is about the development of democracy during the martial law era, which ended in 1987.  This is an important and interesting subject, but why wasn't anything added to the volume dealing with more current developments on the island?  Given that Taiwan has gone much further along the path to consolidating its democracy than either Hong Kong or the PRC, it seems a fuller treatment of its experience should have been provided.	2003-02-05
US	52833543	R3UVLHOBCK4OC1	0743204735	660154931	Bush at War	Books	4	7	8	N	N	The First Hundred Days	Woodward needs no introduction.  If you've read one of his books, then you know his style.  He relies on inside access not available to most reporters and writes in a misleading way that is difficult for the reader to know who exactly is the source of the information.  The latter characteristic makes Woodward an irresponsible journalist; the former trait makes him one you cannot ignore.<br />&quot;Bush at War&quot; falls into this same pattern.  It seduces the reader with descriptions of meetings and events one cannot read about anywhere else since no other reporter had the access to know about them; at the same time, the wary reader can't help but wonder whose agenda is being pushed.  You either take Woodward at his word or you don't.  (Bush and Powell come off well in the book; Rumsfeld less so -- is this because Rumsfeld was not a primary source for the book?)<br />On balance, I found the book fascinating because the subject matter is so compelling: a nation goes to war.  It's also revealing to see that so much of the initial policy-making in the White House after the 9-11 attack had a harum-scarum quality to it.  In those first days, there was little quality information coming out of Afghanistan that Bush and others in the administration could rely on, so they had to feel their way to success.  This is not a knock against Bush -- anyone else in his position would have been forced to do the same thing -- but it is informative to see the way leaders sometimes need to throw together a policy on the run and then respond to events as they happen.	2003-02-02
US	52833543	R30WMLHZABX1RD	0312186134	165242153	Death in the Long Grass: A Big Game Hunter's Adventures in the African Bush	Books	5	52	53	N	N	A Million Ways to Die in Africa	This book is nearly 300 pages long, but I finished it in an evening of reading, and when I did, I wished there had been another 300 pages to go.  \\"Death in the Long Grass\\" is about the author's (Peter Hathaway Capstick) experience as a white hunter in Africa, and his close encounters with the various creatures there that either wanted to eat, trample, gore, or bite him and his associates.<br />This is not an informational guide about either hunting or Africa.  The book's sole intent is to capture your attention with fascinating, hair-raising stories of Capstick's own close calls with the wildlife of Africa as well as his recounting of some other tales where the wildlife got the best of man.<br />The stories are utterly captivating.  They would be interesting to read no matter who was telling them.  But Capstick knows how to write by weaving his own interesting experiences in with other tales he has either heard or read about.  He also has a wicked, morbid sense of humor that fits well with the subject matter of the book.	2003-01-09
US	52833543	R8CDTZJY52EPZ	0582368863	551425318	History of the Sudan: From the Coming of Islam to the Present Day,  A (5th Edition)	Books	3	23	26	N	N	Dense with Information, But Difficult to Follow	Unless you already know a good deal about the history of the Sudan, this is probably not the book for you.  While the text is less than 200 pages (not counting maps, bibliography, and index), the stunning number of names, organizations, and regions in it makes this a slow read, requiring the kind of careful attention one would use for a textbook.  It is not a general history for the general reader.<br />But even with careful reading, this text can be confusing at times.  I'm interested in the relationship between Libya and the Sudan through the Nimeiri era, and this book refers to that relationship several times.  But it does so in a haphazard and seemingly contradictory way.  On pages 168 and 169, Libya appears to support Nimeiri.  But on page 172, Libya is cited as supporting the SPLA and, on page 174, the north African country supports a coup attempt against Nimeiri by a rival.  No explanation is given for the change of policy.  <br />I happen to know the reason for the change, but that is not the point.  Any general history should be clear as to why the major actors in its drama have changed their positions.  There are other instances of this kind of lack of clarity in the book.	2003-01-02
US	52833543	R19HH53KZ2QRAT	031230644X	372306096	The War Against the Terror Masters: Why It Happened. Where We Are Now. How We'll Win.	Books	3	18	26	N	N	This Book is Thrown Together, But Still has Its Moments	On the dust jacket of this book, Michael Ledeen is identified as a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute.  But \\"The War Against the Terror Masters\\" is not a scholarly book.   It is more an extended essay on the roots of terrorism, how 9-11 happened, and what Americans need to do to win the war on terror. <br />As such, the book has both the good and the bad of its genre.  On the positive side, like many essays, it is highly readable and takes a strong point of view.  It is also short (237 pages filled with large type; many people could probably read it in an evening).  <br />On the flip side, the book is filled with numerous errors and is not well-sourced. On page eight, Ledeen writes that several South Korean ministers were killed in Bangkok by North Korean agents.  Actually, they were killed in Burma, not Thailand.  On page 123, Ledeen identifies V.S. Naipaul as a scholar who can help you understand Middle East terrorism.  V.S. Naipaul is not a scholar, and it's a stretch to say his writing on the Middle East will help you understand terrorism.  These are not important errors, but this book is filled with them.  The carelessness with which these \\"facts\\" were included in \\"The War Against the Terror Masters\\" makes me hesitant to trust Ledeen's comments on areas of which I have no knowledge.<br />If you are in a hurry and just want a quick introduction to what the war on terror is all about, who the main actors are, and what the U.S. needs to do to win, this book might fit your bill.  You will find a very readable account here.  If, however, you prefer accuracy and scholarship, you will need to go elsewhere.	2002-12-30
US	52833543	R1MASYBEYA1UMV	0813336570	719416923	Inside Sudan: Political Islam, Conflict, And Catastrophe	Books	2	9	12	N	N	A Disappointing Book	&quot;Inside Sudan&quot; should be a great book.  Donald Petterson served as U.S. Ambassador to Sudan from 1992 to 1995, and met with all the major political figures of the country (Gurang, Turabi, Bashir, Taha, Machar, etc.).  In addition, he has extensive experience in Africa and traveled widely in the Sudan during his three-year tenure.  Petterson also writes clearly.  For all these reasons, this should be a great book.<br />But it's plainly not.  Instead, &quot;Inside Sudan&quot; is a very dull and narrowly-focused volume.  Unless you have a particular interest in the muted frustrations of Donald Petterson, when he served as U.S. Ambassador to Sudan, or you just like any book about the foreign service, you will probably find little to interest you here.  <br />Examples of this are the lifeless descriptions Petterson gives of his meetings with important Sudanese officials.  There's a formula to nearly all of them: Petterson usually starts out by saying the U.S./Sudan relationship will not improve until some important issues (slavery, torture, human rights violations, terrorism, etc.) are addressed by Sudan; the Sudanese official -- whoever Petterson happens to be meeting with at the time -- usually gets upset when he hears this and responds with either 1) there are no problems in Sudan, or 2) the U.S. has the same problems; the next day, the Sudanese press vilifies Petterson; finally, tempers cool and another meeting takes place where the same dynamic essentially repeats itself.<br />While this may be a fair description by Petterson of what actually happened during his meetings with Sudanese officials, it's not a basis for a book.  There's no human element or color in his descriptions.  It's difficult for the reader to tell one official apart from another or one meeting apart from another.  They all just blend in together.  Petterson spent a good deal of time with Turabi and Bashir, and he writes about several meetings he had with these two major figures.  Yet after reading his book, these two very important men are still like stick figures in my mind, with little character or personality.<br />&quot;Inside Sudan&quot; is also weak on the history of the country and on the background of its current civil war.  Most of the book focuses on just the three years Petterson was there.  I realize the Ambassador is not a historian, but surely as a man who has spent a good deal of time in the Sudan, and read much to prepare for his job, he has strong opinions on the way history has shaped current events in that country.  Doesn't he owe it to his readers to write about them?  (The Ambassador does give a short introduction on the Sudan, but it's woefully inadequate.)  <br />When I began &quot;Inside Sudan&quot;, I thought Petterson's three decades of experience in sub-Saharan Africa would give him a fresh perspective on Sudan's relationships with its southern neighbors.  Even though Petterson's previous experience was not in the countries that bordered Sudan, I reasoned that his time spent in Africa should still give him good knowledge about the ties between Sudan and places like Uganda, Central African Republic, Zaire, etc.  But if it did, it's not evident here, as he only briefly discusses them.<br />A good book should be more than a series of failed meetings and tours around the country.  It ought to tell you something interesting or important.  This book fails that basic test.	2002-12-28
US	52833543	RBW0ZDTMSPIS6	1563525666	294691023	The Jewish Phenomenon: Seven Keys to the Enduring Wealth of a People	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Emulating Jewish Success	Why are Jews so successful in a wide range of professions and industries?  Steven Silberger says it has nothing to do with inherent genius, but rather is the result of certain Jewish cultural habits that non-Jewish people can emulate.<br />Silberger's book is arranged in seven chapters to highlight the seven traits he thinks helps Jews to be successful.  Some of them -- such as \\"Successful People are Professionals and Entrepreneurs\\" -- are probably not that relevatory to those already looking to make a name for themselves, but others -- like \\"Develop your Verbal Confidence\\" -- might be useful for many Americans (who distrust a too easy facility with language).<br />Having previously read some of the source material that Silberger used for the \\"The Jewish Phenomenon\\", I was familiar with the successful track record of American Jews.  But the catalogue of Jewish accomplishment he highlights here is still impressive, even to one already familiar with it.  If you have no interest in reading self-help books, you still might find this book interesting for that reason alone.	2002-12-26
US	52833543	R2SX6EBW3XUJKJ	0375509283	461355741	The Threatening Storm: The Case for Invading Iraq	Books	5	46	66	N	N	***The Best Nonfiction Book of 2002***	Some books are convincing because the author appears genuinely disinterested in the outcome of his book's argument, as if he or she is just laying down facts and lines of reasoning without regard for where they might lead.  Other books are convincing because the author is so passionate, knowledgable, and even partisan about his argument, that he is able to develop good objections to his own case, and yet still demolishes them.  <br />\\"The Threatening Storm: The Case for Invading Iraq\\" is the latter kind of book.  It is an astonishing and timely analysis that seeks to explain the range of all possible U.S. policy options in dealing with Iraq, and convincingly makes the case that a U.S.-led invasion is the best one.  While Pollack is up front about what he thinks the U.S. should do, he is fair in setting out the other main potential policy options: containment, deterrance, and covert action.  <br />Pollack also looks beyond the decision to invade by closely examining the implications of his suggested policy.  He admits, for example, that invasion will not be easy and explains why.  One of the more interesting parts of the book is his argument that recent U.S. military strikes in Desert Storm, Kosovo, and Afghanistan are not good examples of what the U.S. military must do in order to successfully invade Iraq and overthrow Saddam Hussein.  Those supporting an invasion of Iraq because they think it will be easy should think again.  Pollack also admits that a successful U.S. invasion will not bring a clean break with the past, but require an intensive U.S. presence in Iraq for years to come.  These admissions give this book a stature that it would lack if it argued that invasion is an easy cure-all for both Iraq and the U.S.<br />But the soul of Pollack's book is his arguments against what he calls \\"containment\\", \\"deterrance\\", and \\"covert action\\" -- the main policy options other than invasion for handling Iraq.  Containment -- the current policy combining sanctions, no-fly zones, and occasional use of minimal military force -- is fast eroding.  While Pollack believes containment has served its purpose, Arab allies of the U.S. will no longer support it for various reasons.  <br />Pollack argues that deterrance -- where the U.S. no longer applies broad sanctions or no-fly zones, but maintains the capability to massively strike Baghdad if it again threatens the region -- will not work because it requires both parties practice conservative decision-making.  After all, careful moves by all parties involved will be needed if the U.S. allows Iraq to develop nuclear weapons, which is implied in deterrance.  Pollack shows however that Saddam's pattern of decision-making dating back to the seventies has been consistently marked by a bold recklessness.  The Iraqi leader is not insane and does have a sense of self-preservation, but he also has little experience outside of Iraq and is surrounded by sycophants who tell him what he wants to hear.<br />Finally, what about the option to take out Saddam with U.S. special forces or Iraqi domestic internal forces?  Since it is Saddam -- not Iraq itself -- that is the main problem, wouldn't it be more efficient and less bloody if the U.S. sent in a team to take the Iraqi leader out or assisted a domestic group in doing the same?  Pollack says this is not a viable option.  He argues that if the U.S. could have taken the Iraqi leader out, it would have already done so.  But the security surrounding Hussein is far better than that which surrounds the U.S. President.  Multiple layers of guards -- the closet of which are deeply loyal to Saddam -- protect the Iraqi leader.  Multiple security agencies have proven extremely difficult to penetrate and are good at detecting any domestic plots against Hussein.  And the Iraqi leader moves around the greater Baghdad area with such frequency -- often employing doubles to throw off any potential pursuers -- that it is impossible to be certain where he is at any time.<br />\\"The Threatening Storm\\" is a powerful book, the best I've read among the nonfiction books released in 2002.  With conflict between the U.S. and Iraq looking imminent in 2003, if you are at all interested in what shape U.S. policy towards Iraq should take, this book is mandatory reading.	2002-12-26
US	52833543	RN8DMB377V1ZT	0300090218	365419541	The Strange Death of American Liberalism	Books	4	10	11	N	N	An Interesting if Sketchy Argument	H.W. Brands has developed an interesting thesis in his recent book \\"The Strange Death of American Liberalism\\" that neither liberals nor conservatives will much like.  <br />Liberalism, Brands argues, is a centralized political arrangement that can only thrive in the U.S. during wartime.  Because of the depth of Americans' distrust of the central government, the natural political fallback position of Americans is conservatism.  Only during war do Americans drop this instinctual distrust of the federal government and allow it to take over new responsibilities. <br />So why do some Baby Boomers think that liberalism is a natural and permanent condition in U.S. politics, simply in need of resuscitation?  Brands says the duration of the Cold War fooled them.  Whereas wars involving the U.S. had been relatively short in the past, the length of the Cold War allowed for a more sustained intrusion of the central government into Americans' lives than ever before.<br />As Brands' book is only 170 pages long, he merely breezes through U.S. history (surprising for a historian), but nevertheless gives an interesting historical sketch as a preliminary test of his hypothesis.  He argues, for example, that the basic nature of both progressivism in the early 20th century and the New Deal in the 1930s were both fairly conservative.  On the other hand, he also buttresses his thesis by showing the solid advances in power made by the federal government during WW1 and WW2.   <br />One of the more surprising bits of data that Brands gives is a poll in 1939 that asked Americans whether the U.S. federal government was spending too much money, not enough, or just the right amount.  61% answered that the government was spending too much.  Only 10% said too little.  And throughout the 30s, even with unemployment rates never dipping below 10%, and once going as high as 25%, most Americans thought it should be a priority for the government to balance its budget and reduce its debt.  On the eve ofFDR's second administration, 50% of Democrats and 80% of Republicans said they hoped it would be more conservative than his first administration.<br />Conservatives are probably gleeful to read this.  Is there any more palatable thesis to conservatives than that their political philosophy is the natural state for Americans?  But while Brands' interpretation of U.S. history is likely to provide some succor for conservatives, his reading of the importance of Reagan will probably turn their stomachs.  Reagan, according to Brands, could not overcome the public's distrust of the federal government to enlist its support for new foreign adventures beyond Grenada, or for a more general support of the Cold War beyond increased defence spending.<br />It's here that Brands' argument becomes strained.  Aren't huge increases in defence spending still a sign of American trust in the central government in at least one regard?  Brands' book is so short that he never gets around to properly answering these kinds of questions.  He says that others must take up his hypothesis to test its explanatory power.  Brands should have spent the time to answer these questions himself.  <br />\\"The Strange Death of American Liberalism\\" was published just prior to 9-11, but if its hypothesis is correct, such an event might prove to be the resurrection of liberalism as Americans turn once again to the federal government for solutions to problems that only it can provide.  But whatever its relevance to current events, this book gives an interesting twist to the traditional conservative/liberal divide.	2002-12-25
US	52833543	R2IPPSHPF67BCY	0824818423	363860888	Asia's Orthographic Dilemma (Asian Interactions and Comparisons)	Books	5	42	45	N	N	A Strong Critique of Chinese Character-based Writing	Traditionally, four major East Asian languages have used Chinese characters for their writing systems: Vietnamese, Korean, Japanese, and, of course, Chinese.  Wm. C. Hannas knows all of them, and in this book he uses that extensive knowledge to deliver a broadside against the Chinese characters' lack of efficiency as a writing system.<br />Anyone familiar with John DeFrancis' work on the Chinese language will recognize some of Hannas' arguments (DeFrancis writes the forward for this book and was clearly an inspiration for Hannas' work).   But Hannas is more wide-ranging in his scholarship and goes further with his arguments.<br />The first part of the book introduces the four major languages that have used Chinese characters for their writing systems, introducing them in order of the frequency they presently use  the characters.  Thus, Chinese -- which is comprised entirely of characters -- is introduced first and Vietnamese -- which no longer uses any characters -- is introduced last.  This part describes the history of each languages' writing system and is highly readable.<br />After the languages have been introduced, the second part of the book critiques the Chinese character-based writing system.  This part varies between highly readable sections and some more abstruse sections that deal with linguistic, analytical, and even psychological arguments that require close readings by the layman who doesn't have an expertise or at least a strong interest in those areas.  But these arguments are the meat of Hannas' book as he looks at what Chinese characters represent, reading and literacy in Chinese character-based scripts, and even whether those writing systems are really appropriate for East Asian languages as some people have argued.<br />The third and final part winds down with a look at why reform of the Chinese character-based writing system fails (as Hannas argues it does) as well as what the future is likely to hold for it.  One chapter alone is dedicated tothe effect computers are having on characters.  I found this part the least plausible of the three and also somewhat repetitive as arguments made earlier were restated.  <br />While I agree with most of Hannas' general arguments and found his book both highly interesting and entertaining, I also think he greatly overstates his case.  Hannas seems to actually believe that characters are on their way out.  The growth in education and wealth, as well as the general social vibrance found in so many of the societies which still use Chinese characters suggests, at the very least, that perhaps inefficiency in a writing system is simply not an important aspect to a well-functioning, modern society -- that whatever impact it has is more negligible than Hannas imagines.<br />But disagreements over some of its points shouldn't be a reason not to read this outstanding book.  Hannas' scholarship, lucid writing, and forceful exposition will give anyone who has experience with any of the East Asian languages that use Chinese characters a wonderful read.	2002-12-25
US	52833543	R2KWSIK1MC014	0674007514	323862188	The Death Penalty: An American History	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A Superb, Even-handed History of Capital Punishment	It's a testament to the balance found in Stuart Banner's history of the death penalty in the U.S. that I'm still unsure where he stands on the controversial issue. If I had to take a position, I would say that he's probably against it, but even after reading his three-hundred page book I can't be sure. That's a remarkable feat for a subject matter that immediately unbalances many people.<br />But \\"The Death Penalty: An American History\\" has other virtues. The book is scholarly, yet still an easy read for any interested layman; it is comprehensive, but doesn't get bogged down in details. Banner begins with capital punishment as practiced in colonial America and ends with public attitudes and constitutional issues in the late twentieth century. While the book basically follows a straightforward chronology, its chapters are arranged thematically.<br />Some of the most interesting parts of the book are in the beginning. How Banner describes public opinion toward the death penalty in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, the way executioners then -- who often were killing a man for the first and only time in their lives -- handled their duties, and the relationship between the public who viewed the execution and the condemned man, were all very fascinating to me.<br />But no part of this history is boring. Banner does a remarkable job of sustaining interest even when the book turns to modern times, where the history of the death penalty focuses more on legal and abstruse matters. Banner always clarifies the issues at hand, explaining clearly and objectively the importance of what he is writing about. I cannot recommend this book too highly. If you have any interest in the death penalty, read it.	2002-12-25
US	52833543	R2KMNIRJZQSI86	0764553291	133659116	Mutual Funds For Dummies?	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Superb Intro to Mutual Funds	This book is an excellent guide to the world of mutual funds. Eric Tyson does a service to beginning investors by steering them towards the modest goal of getting the same return as the market by investing in low-fee, low turnover mutual funds (preferably index funds).<br />Tyson covers nearly everything in this book, from how to build a portfolio, to what returns you can reasonably expect, to where to buy the funds. He covers stock funds, bond funds, and money market funds, and shows how you can evaluate them. He does all of this in easy-to-read prose.<BR> <BR>I have one small complaint about the book. If Tyson is not paid by Vanguard, he should be. I can understand that given its dedication to low cost and its unique corporate structure among brokerages, Vanguard might be the best place around to buy mutual funds, but Tyson should have made a point to back off just a bit on highlighting the company so egregiously to avoid the appearance of being the company's shill. <br />But despite this small lapse, I believe Tyson has the best interests of people who want to make a little money for retirement, their children's education, or some other modest goal, but aren't comfortable speculating. He encourages that healthy skepticism towards their ability to make a quick buck and instead teaches them to invest in a way they can have reasonable confidence -- instead of an irrational exuberance -- that they will get the expected return on their money.	2002-08-23
US	52833543	R3Q3RCYLTBCOLU	0871138298	427687041	The China Dream: The Quest for the Last Great Untapped Market on Earth	Books	5	32	36	N	N	A Superb Antidote to the China Hype	There's an incredible amount of hype about China's economic market.  Its huge population, high-skilled low-wage work force, and relative political stability for a developing country all act as a powerful lure to multinationals eager to set up shop and begin selling to one-quarter of the world's population.  Under tough negotiations from Chinese officials, these companies tend to give away the kitchen sink to ensure they get access to the huge market.  But what do they get in return?<br />Joe Studwell does a service to the informed public by clearly demonstrating that almost all the businesses who have gone to China have gotten next to nothing for their technology transfers, special fees, and tremendous time and effort they've dedicated to the market.  Almost uniformly, they have high-balled their expected sales and profits from the Middle Kingdom and found immense barriers such as unseen regulations and fees, corrupt officials, unenforced laws, local spin-offs to their products, etc., that should have sent them packing.  Yet almost all of them push on, undeterred.<br />As Studwell explains, the reason for this is an old phenomenon among Western businessmen he calls \\"The China Dream.\\"  Despite continual setbacks, these hard-headed businessmen are too attracted to the possibility that they have something to sell that even a small percentage of Chinese may want to buy.  Those huge potential numbers are too much of an enticement to businesses to easily let go of their foothold in China.<br />But Studwell's book is more than just about the experience of foreign businessmen in China.  It also shows that the China market is becoming a trap for the Chinese people themselves.  They work hard and save, and the government confiscates and then destroys their money by trapping it in state-owned banks that are insolvent because they lend to state-owned enterprises that are unproductive.  <br />\\"The China Dream\\" is well-written and informative.  Its thesis is provocative, but wellsupported.  Studwell argues there is no rational basis for much of China's economic success and that most of its market is as closed and overregulated as the Soviet Union's.  This book should be required reading for every CEO of a multinational who dreams of selling in China.	2002-08-23
US	52833543	R2VJVPVZA4DSFT	0792263626	96389309	Ghosts of Tsavo: Tracking the Mythic Lions of East Africa	Books	4	7	9	N	N	A Fascinating Subject Made Less So By The Author	The lions of Tsavo always manage to stay just out of reach in this book.  They appear on the horizon or make a short appearance nearby before disappearing in the thick underbrush.  Their origins also remain elusive.  <br />The subject of scientific dispute and made somewhat famous by the movie \\"The Ghost and the Darkness\\", the lions of this harsh region in East Africa are known for several characteristics that differentiate them from the more photogenic lions of the Serengeti Plains.  They are far larger, specialize in hunting Buffalo, have no manes, and -- most chillingly -- are reputed to be man-eaters far more often than other lions.  <br />Are the differences due to the region's harsh environment?  Or are the Tsavo lions genetic throwbacks to a primitive lion that once hunted man?  Or could it be that the differences between plains lions and Tsavo lions are simply imagined by hunters and other non-scientists who build myths around their quarry?<br />The novelist Philip Caputo discovers these interesting questions as he begins his own search for the Tsavo lions.  Caputo is drawn to the beasts for reasons I never fully comprehend.  In part, however, his early exposure to Colonel John Patterson's book (which inspired the movie \\"The Ghost and the Darkness\\") and seeing the stuffed lions that Patterson shot in a Chicago-area Museum seem to have touched a nerve in him.  While Patterson hints at other reasons for the trip, he never explains them in a consistent and coherent manner.<br />Normally, this wouldn't matter, but Caputo interjects his own tale into this book far too often.  Who Caputo likes and dislikes, arguments in base camp among his companions, his sickness and near-death experience, and his boredom with the slow wait for Tsavo lions to make an appearance all feature too prominently in the book.  Caputo writes well enough that it never becomes intolerable, but it still is a distraction.  \\"Where are the lions?,\\" I kept asking myself.<br />They remained elusive.  It's very possible I knew more (or thought I knew more) about the lions in Tsavo on page 50 of this book than I did on page 250.  With the exception of a small -- but fairly conclusive -- experiment on how lions react to different mane colors of other male lions, nearly no other new information is drawn out.<br />But if you enjoy reading about African wildlife or one of nature's most famous keystone species, I recommend this book.  The faults of the author don't distract enough from the great interest of the subject matter.	2002-08-07
US	52833543	R1X6M9KNH2N6P2	962593457X	701442793	China Style	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Lovely Photos, So-so Text	This is an enjoyable book introducing many different places -- mostly residential, but also some hotels and restaurants -- with a variety of Chinese designs.<br />The best part of the book is the photography by Michael Freeman.  In most of the rooms he captures a feeling that it's lived in, a part of someone's daily life.  Some books I own on Asian design don't have this quality: the rooms either appear too staged or the photographer gives them a sterile feeling.  I could recommend this book on the photos alone.<br />The text is not quite up to standards of the photos, but it's acceptable.  The author, Sharon Leece, obviously knows her subject, but she often lapses into blurb-style.  For example, she writes on one house: \\"The words colourful, extravagent, and opulent can hardly begin to describe the palatial home of Contrasts Gallery owner Pearl Lam.\\"<br />Another fun aspect of this book is that the places it showcases aren't just the homes of wealthy individuals.  You see not only the more than 13,000 square foot Manhattan apartment of Chinese antiquities dealer Robert Hatfield Ellsworth, with its numerous expensive Chinese antiques, but you also get to see how some people with obviously much smaller budgets still managed to design their home with a unique Chinese flavor.	2002-07-28
US	52833543	RKXECER5R98LR	0394528360	741344123	Master of the Senate: The Years of Lyndon Johnson III	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Flawed Masterpiece	In each of his books, Robert Caro says he seeks to understand power, to explore it through his writing and lay it bare for his readers. The titles of all his books show his fascination with the topic: \\"The Power Broker\\", \\"The Path to Power\\", \\"The Means of Ascent\\", and, finally, this one, \\"Master of the Senate\\".<br />No one can doubt Caro's commitment to the subject. In \\"Master of the Senate\\" -- the third volume so far in his multi-volume biography of Lyndon Baines Johnson -- Caro has written a thousand dense pages on what is really no more than ten years in the life of his subject (1948-57 -- the final three years of LBJ's Senate career, 1958-60, are dealt with perfunctorily in the book). His research is obviously very thorough, even a little awe-inspiring. The power of Caro's narrative is also compelling; he knows how to tell a story.<br />And the story Caro tells is a fascinating one. How LBJ manages, in rather short order, to bend to his will -- by flattery and sycophancy, cajolement and threat -- the minds and votes of several dozen strong-willed men accustomed to having their own way, is nothing short of epic. How he first ingratiates himself with the southern bloc of Senators and then ultimately betrays them (but ever so subtly) to advance his personal ambition is Shakespearean in its blend of character and fate.<br />In these particulars of research and narrative, Caro deals with the subject masterfully. It is in his judgements on power -- the main topic of the book -- that he falls somewhat short. Caro understands the hard currency of power very well. The money that flows to the politician and its hold on him is Caro's meat and potatoes. But where Caro always seems to be taken off-guard and a little too suspicious is on the softer currency of political power -- that of being liked and doing things which will make *most* people like you.<br />Caro has heard this criticism before -- especially after volume 2 of \\"The Years of Lyndon Johnson\\", where Johnson is portrayed in an unremittingly bad light -- and seeks to disarm it in \\"Master of the Senate\\". Johnson as the good guy is more visible. His genuine compassion for the downtrodden is detailed. His growing respect for his wife, Lady Bird, is shown. In parts of the book, he appears vulnerable and even contemplative.<br />But Caro is more comfortable with Johnson the Ogre. Plainly, any fair biography of Johnson would have to deal with that side of the man. In most ways Johnson was not a good man, cared nothing for morals or even political issues, and if Caro is convinced with the idea that money is politics' lifeblood, clearly his subject in this book is the ideal candidate to show this.<br />Yet Johnson was a politician who also needed love and admiration, not just power and money. If money and power was LBJ's sole pursuits, he easily could have used his tremendous energy and intelligence to capture them outside the political arena. Despite several opportunities in his life to do so, he chose not to. Caro usually sees this side of Johnson, but is either dismissive of it or qualifies it as a 'lust for power' deferred. In a book less powerful than \\"Master of the Senate\\", this flaw would surely diminish the book. Here it simply reminds us that greatness is not perfection.	2002-07-27
US	52833543	R1VA7H6KSEMLJO	0394555090	951161016	Theodore Rex	Books	4	15	18	N	N	A Fine Book, But Not the Equal of Its Predecessor	Under normal circumstances, this book would've probably earned a five-star rating.  But &quot;Theodore Rex&quot; follows in the wake of one of the great biographies of the century (&quot;The Rise of Theodore Roosvelt&quot;), raising expectations that it too will be among the best.  Sadly, it is not.  Instead, &quot;Theodore Rex&quot; is a well-written and detailed look at one of America's most interesting presidents, and is more workmanlike than inspired.<br />There may be mitigating circumstances for why this is so.  Roosevelt's pre-presidential life is more interesting than his presidency, more wide-ranging and adventurous.  And yet there is also an overarching theme to Roosevelt's early life that gives continuity to the narrative in &quot;The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt&quot; in a way that &quot;Theodore Rex&quot; lacks.  As we read the first volume, we constantly ask ourself 'How will the young Roosevelt steamroll this obstacle on his rise to ultimate power?'  <br />But there is no such unifying theme in Roosevelt's presidency to give coherence to his blur of activity while in office: no great depression, no major war.  As a result, &quot;Theodore Rex&quot; feels more disjointed even as it covers less territory than the first volume.  We jump from race relations to congressional relations, from the Panama Canal to The Treaty of Portsmouth, from conservation to the Great White Fleet.  Most of it is quite interesting, even fascinating, but one can read a section without feeling a compelling need to go on.  That was not true of the first book, where even the ending left one yearning for volume two so the story would continue.<br />One can argue that this is not Morris's fault, and I'm inclined to agree.  No matter what your talents as a biographer and a writer, you are always constrained by the material.  But where one can fault Morris in &quot;Theodore Rex&quot; is in the decline of the quality of his prose.  There are numerous lines, metaphors, and similes in thefirst volume that are so memorable as to make one believe the book came from the pen of a poet; those type of lines are far and few between in this volume, even though it's still well-written.<br />I hope I have not given the impression that I dislike this book.  It's a fine biography and one which I can recommend without hesitation.  But for those who've read the first volume, there is a noticable drop in quality and inspiration.	2002-07-22
US	52833543	ROGW5INFC9ETA	0446677450	156348512	Rich Dad, Poor Dad: What the Rich Teach Their Kids About Money--That the Poor and Middle Class Do Not!	Books	1	21	30	N	N	Financial Hucksterism as a Successful Sales Gimmick	For the uninitiated in properly managing their money, this is a dangerous book.  While much of the author's story is nothing more than an extended homily that preaches a do-it-yourself, get-rich-quick mindset, what little he does specifically recommend is mostly wrong.<br />You can almost pick a page at random in the book and come up with something that is silly, contradictory, or simply in error -- sometimes outrageously so.  An example is on page 66/67: <br />&quot;Rich dad went on to explain that the rich know that money is an illusion....  He talked about the gold standard that America was on, and that each dollar was actually a silver certificate.  What concerned him was the rumor that we would someday go off the gold standard and our dollars would no longer be silver certificates....  'When that happens, boys, all hell is going to break loose....'  We really did not understand what he was saying that day, but over the years it made more and more sense.&quot;<br />Kiyosaka hits the trifecta here.  He is wrong, contradictory and silly (but, thankfully, not illegal).  First, money is not an illusion.  Nations and people -- rich and poor -- cannot conjure it out of thin air.  But if money was an illusion as Rich Dad suggests it is, then why worry about it being taken off the gold standard?  And as the U.S. went off the gold standard in 1971 without the system breaking down, the author will have to explain how Rich Dad's comments &quot;made more and more sense&quot; over the years, when they should have made less and less.<br />This is an unimportant example, picked at random, and has more to do with economics than with personal finance.  But it's indicative of Kiyosaka's approach throughout the book.  On page 231, he writes, &quot;What I find funny is that so many poor and middle class people insist on tipping restaurant help 15 to 20 percent even for bad service and complain about paying a broker 3 to 7 percent.  They enjoy tipping people in the expense column and stiffing people in the asset column.  That is not financially intelligent.&quot;<br />The comparison is inapt.  15 to 20 percent on a meal (usually a pittance) and 3 to 7 percent (potentially a significant sum) brokering a real estate or stock deal is in no way comparable.  A person with some free time can significantly cut down their expenses by cutting out a broker if they so choose.  And why would anyone in their right mind pay a stockbroker 3 to 7% when you can get just as good of results or better for under 1%?<br />Kiyosaka's book is filled with landmines for the unwary.  I'm startled and a little frightened that it became a bestseller.  It's an example of how successful salesmenship of a personal finance book has absolutely no correlation to the quality contained in it.  If you feel you must buy it, look up John T Reed's well-researched and thorough evisceration of the author and his claims before you actually pull the trigger.	2002-07-21
US	52833543	R29MQNHBYOHYCS	0375756787	693970523	The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt (Modern Library Paperbacks)	Books	5	99	101	N	N	Not Just a Great Biography, But a Work of Art	Edmund Morris's &quot;The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt&quot; is a magnificent biography, perhaps the best I've ever read.  In it, Morris follows the life of Theodore Roosevelt from his birth in a New York City brownstone in 1858 to his assumption of the U.S. Presidency in 1901. The book is the first of three volumes Morris plans to write on Roosevelt, the second of which --&quot;Theodore Rex&quot; -- was released last year.<br />In more than 700 pages of text in this book, there is hardly a dull page.  The main reason for this, of course, is TR's fascinating, energetic life.  He was -- in no particular order -- an amateur naturalist of note, a decorated soldier, an historian, a rancher in the Badlands, a government officer pushing for reform in the civil service, Police Commissioner, Assistant Secretary of the Navy, a state assemblyman, New York's Governor, and finally Vice President.  It would be difficult to write a dull book about such a man.<br />But Morris deserves some credit as well.  I've read several other biographies of Roosevelt, and while many of them are quite good -- even great -- this is the best.  I believe Morris's style as well as his control of the material is the best explanation for this.  Much of the writing is beautiful.  Even Morris doesn't approach it in his other books.  <br />But here Morris shows a poet's gift for metaphor and simile.  In explaining how reserved, emotionally stunted men like Henry Adams, Thomas Reed, and Henry Cabot Lodge put up socially with the rambunctious Roosevelt, Morris writes they &quot;...grew dependent upon [Roosevelt's] warmth, as lizards crave the sun.&quot;  There are numerous examples like this in the book.<br />While &quot;The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt&quot; should probably be described as a political or historical biography, one doesn't need to have the slightest interest in either to enjoy it.  Roosevelt's own ambition and energy, the circumstances of his life, and Morris's writing will drive anyone's interest.	2002-06-25
US	52833543	R1WMM6YN7VCEK4	0140270159	831044384	Hamilton's Blessing: The Extraordinary Life and Times of Our National Debt	Books	4	15	17	N	N	A Good Primer on the History of U.S. Fiscal Policy	Just two years ago, John Steele Gordon's book on the history of the U.S. federal debt would have seemed dated, even though it was published in 1997. After more than twenty consecutive years of operating in the red, the U.S. federal government had not only erased its annual deficits and began paying down the debt, but surpluses were projected over the next ten years.<br />This is no longer the case. A tax cut, the war on terrorism, and a slowdown in the economy have combined to push the U.S. government's outlays above its revenues. They have also made this book -- \\"Hamilton's Blessing\\" -- relevant again.<br />Gordon's book is two things: 1) a basic history describing the twists and turns of U.S. fiscal policy over the last two hundred-plus years and 2) a political tract condemning the latest turn U.S. fiscal policy has taken since the Great Society.<br />By combining the two, Gordon seeks to show that the most recent practice of U.S. fiscal policy -- that of habitually running deficits in peacetime -- is not only unprecedented in U.S. history, but also, more importantly, unsupported by any sound theory of economics.<br />\\"Hamilton's Blessing\\" is well-written and interesting. The book is only slightly marred by a lack of detail in some areas. How exactly does a large public debt hurt your average citizen and by how much? We never find out.<br />Gordon also should have kept his own political bent out of the book. Among other things, he spends three pages in a less than 200-page book detailing Jack Kemp's personal and political history, including his football career. All very interesting, but not really relevant to the history of the U.S. debt.	2002-06-24
