US	52844379	R1JWQMZKZ4DV96	0743276949	179955861	What Remains: A Memoir of Fate, Friendship, and Love	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Beautifully Written Memoir Of Love And Loss	This is a moving memoir that illustrates no one is immune from tragedy and loss, that even those with the most money and celebrity and easiest, swiftest access to the world's best medical care cannot insulate themselves from bad luck and the relentless ravages of fate, that grief can lie in wait for us all. Clearly, this book served a needed cathartic purpose for the author -- a kind of self-therapy, if you will -- but I don't feel that it's at all self-serving or self-pitying.  <br /> <br />The author simply and candidly tells it like it was. Her prose is honed fine; it's lean and even literary. Though admittedly a depressing read, it's an honest and straightforward one. The book cover is so shocking, so unspeakably sad, but its starkness reminds us that all one can do is to carry on when tragedy decides to deliver a massive body blow. That one remaining chair turned outward, standing lonely and bereft on the empty seashore, gives a glimmer of hope.  <br /> <br />A sobering, lovely book. The author is to be commended for having the courage to write it. <br /> <br />	2005-10-08
US	52844379	RKRBUVWMU2PN7	0871136821	417931314	Worst Fears	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Weldon At Her Best!	The brilliant Fay Weldon skewers and punctures hypocrisy is this wonderfully sly first-person narrative. Protagonist Alexandra Ludd is the only real, genuine, honest human being in this disturbing but ultimately triumphant (in a way!) tale of adultery/infidelity, backbiting, lies, and false friendship. Alexandra, a beauty and successful actress, is in a sham of a marriage, but she's the only one who doesn't seem to know it. Her late husband Ned, a failed theater critic consumed by jealousy of her success -- she makes the money, he spends it -- porked all available females in the environs of their country cottage to get even with her for the failures of his professional career. He lived a devious double life and was unfaithful to her in nasty and sundry ways much worse than mere physical infidelity. Additionally, he maligned her character and twisted the reasons for her behavior. Alexandra is a great character, and I was rooting for her all the way, even when it seemed that all had fallen apart like Humpty Dumpty, never to be put together again. It's a terrible aspect of human nature, but success/beauty/talent are resented by those who lack any of these three attributes; Weldon exposes it for what it is, from the obsequious pseudo-friends to the horny brother-in-law Hamish, who, feigning assistance to the grieving widow, is just itching for the opportunity to get into her pants; to the country folks' envy -- there is a wonderful cameo of a resentful child-minder, the servant of everyone's nightmares -- of the city folks, who seem to have too much and they too little. It's a witty page turner typical of Weldon's best work. Am already casting the film with Angelina Jolie as Alexandra, Brad Pitt as Ned, Heath Ledger as his brother Hamish, Helen Mirren as the older, Slavic femme-fatale Vilna, Julianne Moore as the duplicitous best friend and neighbor, Abbie (playing against character), et al. Am only stumped by the worst of the bunch, the dumpy lump/unfaithful wife JennyLinden and the unethical therapist/counselor Leah. They are perhaps the most contemptible of the rich and subtle cast of characters. Weldon has the typical counselor's mealy-mouth platitudes down pat, but the manipulative Leah is evil to boot. A terrific read that would make a fabulous film.	2005-09-15
US	52844379	R12OGF50D0YX8T	0060082739	92035455	Gallows Thief	Books	5	2	2	N	N	If you loved the Richard Sharpe novels you will love this!	The Gallows Thief is enriched by excellent period research but not overwhelmed by it. Bernard Cornwell is a brilliant writer who knows how to weave research throughout his narrative to give a Regency feel but still make it comprehensible to modern readers who may not have a Regency sensibility. The characters are well-rounded, interesting, and grab the reader's imagination. Captain Rider Sandman is the consummate Regency hero, intelligent, physically brave, craggily handsome,  sympathetic to the plight of others. Here he is forced to work for his living -- demoting him from the ranks of gentlemen -- to support himself, his widowed mother, and sister. His father, a suicide, gambled and speculated away the sizable family fortune and lands and it is now up to his son to try to make things right, beginning with paying off tradesmen devastated by their losses. A gallows thief saves those sentenced to death by hanging. The fascinating twist to this mystery is that the sentenced rapist/murder, Charles Corday/aka/Cruttwell, is not a likable character. Despite his own feelings toward Corday, Sandman is soon convinced of his innocence and sets out to prove it. The action is non-stop and the book impossible to put down. I could not recommend this more highly as both a fan of Regency-set novels and an author myself of Regency fiction. Please, HarperCollins, offer Cornwell a contract for more Sandman novels! We want to know what happens to him and to all the equally marvelous secondary characters Cornwell has introduced. Jack Hood, the dishy highwayman, certainly deserves a plot of his own! And, whatever your opinion concerning capital punishment, the cruel practice of hanging will give you food for thought. Hanged for stealing a watch? For your mistress's pearls, even though you didn't do it? The descriptions of hanging are not for those who don't have strong stomachs, but this did happen, and often (between 1816 and 1820, there were over 100 hangings a year, most for robbery).This novel is set in 1817.	2003-03-30
US	52844379	R35J514SS25G0R	0618049339	127074238	Several Deceptions	Books	5	2	2	N	N	FABULOUS NEW AUTHOR!	Here are various manifestations of Jane Stevenson's voice: a lazy former playboy now teaching semiotics at an obscure central Italian college (\\"The Island of the Day Before Yesterday\\") who is far, far too clever for his own good; a \\"good twin\\" helpless to change the downward spiral of his bad twin's life into homicide  (\\"Law And Order\\"), a tale set in Holland amongst law students; a lesbian academic writing a dissertation on Tacitus in love with a simple Irish woman turned Tibetan Buddhist (\\"The Colonel And Judy O'Grady\\"--yes, the title is a terrific play on that old phrase!); and a young, embittered, alcoholic art historian whose biggest goal in his shadow of a life is to cause problems for his friends (\\"Crossing The River\\") and who succeeds none-too-admirably in breaking up the marriage of the woman he was once loved at university. That Stevenson makes all of these characters real and that we can empathize with even the callous Simone of the first story and the sociopathic Oliver of the last story shows the depth and range of her writing skill. These novellas are erudite, compelling, and great fun to read; Stevenson's command of the English language puts her up there with A.S. Byatt and Michael Frayn, perhaps even Iris Murdoch at times. Other reviewers have noted their favorites among this rich offering---I can only add that I enjoyed them all, but that the particular archness of \\"Crossing The River\\" made it a gem. An anthology that's hard to put down. Enjoy!	2002-12-02
US	52844379	R2Y0DQHTKNRR58	0452282977	155843737	Miss Garnet's Angel	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Like the most beautiful piece of sparkling Murano glass...	This is no hokey and banal Touched By An Angel melodrama, peopled (or angeled :-) with dubious beings who are anything but magical, but a serious and fine work that delves deeply into exotic religions (and the place of guardian angels in such religions) and art/art restoration/and art restorers, replete with enigmatic, enthralling characters and an intelligent albeit twisting plot. The other reviewers have supplied the high points of the story and summarized it, so what I have to add is that it gives exquisite pleasure to readers, much like the Murano glass manufactured in Venice gives pleasure to those who buy or view it. It shines, it sparkles, it's one of a kind...we know Miss Garnet so well by the time the tale is told...and we hate to lose her. This is an inspirational novel that will stick in one's imagination for a long time, and it's encouraging to know that this is Salley Vickers's first book. She can only get better and better. For those who welcome something out of the ordinary and who have an interest in myth, religion, art, magic, and the vulnerability and frailty of human beings just like us. Venice, that beguiling, mysterious city, is a character as much as anyone or anything else in Miss Garnet's Angel.	2002-11-29
US	52844379	R1K2V32899E2KG	0312267460	538222637	Headlong: A Novel (Bestselling Backlist)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Enthralling tour de force from a  master storyteller	One of my favorite books is An Instance of the Fingerpost, by Iain Pears. The Pears book is an historical mystery with many facets and a killer of an ending. Headlong traces the consequence of one unethical act, an act that results in destruction and loss, another killer ending. Martin Clay, the protagonist, is a philosopher by training who's a bit jealous of his wife, Kate, an art historian. Both are writing books, but his is beginning to bore him, and he'd like to finesse his wife. As he says several times, her field is iconography, whereas his is iconology. She is an interpreter of icons in art---those symbols artists use to instruct the untutored, but he is the scholar who integrates the whole, who sees not only the symbols, but what the symbols mean in the context of the work of art. In his own mind, Martin's better at what Kate does so ploddingly, never seeing the forest for the trees. Wanting to make a name for himself as the discoverer of a long-lost Bruegel/Brueghel painting, he abandons integrity and even toys with betraying his wife and their life together (they have a baby girl). The Clays have a home in the country to which they've repaired to write their respective books. They are looking forward to three months or more of relative peace and quiet, far from busy, noisy London and their Oswald Street flat. The local lord of the manor, Call-me-Tony Churt, however, seizes upon their knowledge of paintings and art history and asks them to evaluate several canvases he keeps in a cold, dirty, locked room. He needs to know how much hard cash they'll get him so he can fix up his dilapidated holdings. The paintings don't fall within either Martin or Kate's areas of expertise, but the dirtiest of all suddenly hits Martin with a coup de foudre, a clap of thunder. He's sure it's a Bruegel. Martin begins to make a pact with his internal devil, tempting himself with thoughts of money and fame much as the Devil tempted Faust. He goes over to the dark side and beginsto craft a plan that will gratify his heart's desire, no matter what happens to his soul in the meantime. This is an enthralling read---I read it in one afternoon---what reviewers call \\"a page-turner\\"---and it will keep readers on the edge of their seats. Perhaps not all readers. This is a bookish novel, and if one is thrilled by the hunt of research into arcane areas and intrigued by intellectual pursuits that include the history of art as well as European history in general, this is definitely for that person. There are some tantalizing almost-sexy segments, but the joy of Headlong is the breathless following of Martin Clay's rapid spin into ultimate self-destruction, headlong, indeed. Some finely drawn minor characters---Kate, the suffering-in-silence neglected wife, the jug-eared art historian John Quiss, the beautiful and restless chainsmoking, gin-swilling Lady Churt, the brutal, charmless Tony, blueblood breeding gone to seed, surrounded by yapping hounds and living in a pit of a once-stately home---and, a truly fabulous creation lurking in the deep, dark shadows of his artistic masterpieces, the enigmatic figure of the little-known Netherlandish painter Bruegel, who may have been rather more than the quiet figure described by later historians of 16th-century Dutch paintings. What were the painter's convictions, and did he set them down deliberately for others to discover while imperiling his own life? Whether or not one buys into Frayn's conclusions, this is a masterly tour de force and highly recommended for those who appreciate literary fiction at its very best.	2002-11-29
US	52844379	R3PQE48Y0C8VQ3	0375502238	955709915	Blessings	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Reminds me of the wonderful Shell Seekers	Why? Because of the young people, Skip and Jennifer, and their relationship with the old woman, Mrs. Blessing. There's a warmth and loveliness there that Quindlen conveys beautifully. Blessings, the home/estate, was never the idyllic place that outsiders and visitors thought it was. There was hypocrisy and bitterness and lives spoiled. No one was really happy---and, if they were, it was not for very long. Skip Cuddy appears to be the classic loser, but he is actually a moral and principled young man with the great bad luck to be born to a dysfunctional blue-collar family. Circumstances have conspired to hold him back from the spark of promise he showed in elementary school. He hangs around with the wrong people and gets into trouble. He doesn't rat on these (dubious) friends, though, and gets grudging respect from his peers. Jennifer Foster, half-Korean, daughter of Nadine, Mrs. Blessing's unpleasant, monosyllabic housekeeper, wants better things than a life in Mount Mason, but is held back by too-strong family pressures and lack of money. Mrs. Blessing has a lot of money, no people skills, and a lifetime of accumulated bitterness. And, then, one night, a baby is abandoned at Blessings, and Skip takes her in. This is a charming story, slighter than the masterful Shell Seekers by Rosamunde Pilcher but in the same spirit. People can affect others for good and for ill, and Blessings explores both aspects of the effect we have on each other. Quindlen writes with a loving hand. We care for these people and suffer with them, too.	2002-11-23
US	52844379	R10Q64A20IUFU2	0374278784	920885929	Travels with a Medieval Queen	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Creative and imaginative biography of a little-known queen!	It's a daunting task to attempt to write a biography of someone when few primary sources exist. Constance, the last child of the Norman King Roger II of Sicily was an intriguing woman whose personal story teased, eluded and captivated author Mary Taylor Simeti for years, as she states in the pages of this biography-cum-travelogue-cum-personal memoir, but with whom she felt a strange kinship. Both were strangers in a strange land---Constance in her 10-year exile from her Sicilian homeland when she married Holy Roman Emperor Henry VI---Simeti when she married a Sicilian, settled there, and raised her children far from America. Simeti happily found a home in Sicily (and this is her 4th book dealing with Sicilian subjects); Constance finally returned, in triumph, to the land of her forebears, having borne a child along the way (a first child, at the age of forty!), the infant who would become Frederick II, Holy Roman Emperor and Sicilian King. Simeti flatly states that she did not know if she had enough material to write a biography. She then takes the daring chance of fleshing out her thin material by musing about a fictitious (though likely) Arab nursemaid, a possible (though unlikely) relationship with a German courtier, and a close friendship (most plausible) with an Italian abbess, and sets out to reconstruct Constance's final trip home to Palermo, using logic, old documents, and intuition, to guess the actual route of the journey south. Simeti takes the further leap of relating to Constance as a woman and mother whose hopes, fears, and ambitions for her child were not so different from those of any other mother, despite the yawning chasm of centuries and cultures. Not a traditional biography, or history, by any means, and some points are surely controversial, but this is a compelling narrative that makes this little-known queen come alive as a personage in her own right. Simeti freely admits that although she was a history major, she is not an historian, but she shows great powers of empathy with Constance. Moreover, living in Sicily for 40 years has made her quite knowledgeable about and sensitive to the people, the land, and its ancient history. (I wish only that Simeti had taken more time in her journey to visit more sites and take more photographs!) The story of the Norman conquest of Sicily, when the House of  Hauteville wrested control of this rich kingdom from Arab control, and what happened when Teutons from the North stepped in two centuries later at the death of Constance's young nephew, William II, after the throne was claimed by an illegitimate grandson of Roger II, isn't well-known, but it is highly dramatic, replete with colorful characters, intrigues, and adventure. I look forward to more explorations of Sicilian history from this talented writer, someone who loves what she does and has the ability to make otherwise dusty history come alive for her readers. A final note---Simeti talks about her own life and experiences in this unusual book but never in a jarring manner---which makes one wonder at the disturbing ad hominem remarks addressed to the author in the previous reviews---rather, the contemporary travelogue-cum-memoir has its own charm and nicely brackets the trip and experiences of Queen Constance, who becomes ever more human to us as she makes her crucial life's passage from the cold, monochromatic German castle of Trifels to the warmth and beauty of the colorful Mediterranean island her heart never really left. And there is never any question of where Simeti's heart is.	2002-11-22
US	52844379	RNQETT9KLCUU3	0425170365	620779944	Flower under Ice	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Passionate and exciting romance fiction	Sometimes you read a book, and you enjoy it, and then you read reviews by others, and wonder if you've all read the same book! This is the problem I have with a couple of the reviews posted here for Flowers Under Ice, a truly magnificent action-packed story with passionate protagonists, sound historical background, and complex plotting. This is intelligent writing, among the very best in historical romance today. There is no rape in this book. How absurd! I agree that there are still bodice-rippers in this genre that feature men who don't understand the meaning of \\"no\\" but this is simply not one of them. Dominic is a dark hero, a disturbed man, beset by many demons. Yes, he wants to bed Catriona, but he comes to love her, and she becomes his salvation. Love can heal, that's the message of this novel. And the passion is mutual, it's believable, it's palpable. This book is among the very best of its genre...it is uplifting and fine. Don't miss out on this treat...	2002-09-12
US	52844379	R11BOXN5MIDYE	0689844611	247294356	The Folk Keeper (Jean Karl Books (Paperback))	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Instant Children's Classic!	I used to be a children's librarian---that was a long time ago, but I still love children's books. (The Harry Potter books have just confirmed what we've known all along, that good books appreciated by children will also be appreciated by grownups.)The Folk Keeper is a fantasy set in England. Time period? Perhaps Georgian, perhaps Stuart, perhaps earlier. It's a time where people still have to propitiate the vestiges of an earlier, pagan world, a hungry, non-human, gnomish, fairy world by leaving offerings of food and drink. If these beings are not satisfied, cows will die or cease to give milk; crops will rot in the fields; all matter of unexplainable phenomena will take place and cause havoc. The folk keeper's job is to keep these harmful, always-hungry, excitable creatures at bay. Our heroine, a foundling named Corinna, now disguised as a boy, Corin, keeps the folk at bay at an orphanage. For this, she is respected, if not honored. When the opportunity comes to leave this awful excuse for a home, she hesitates, then goes. It turns out to be her ancestral place, where she will come to grips with her true nature, her forebears, her own other-worldliness, and find a great love. The language is sparse, but poetic, and tough but fey Corinna grows on the reader. Such an unloved little soul, who gradually becomes more beloved than she'd ever imagined. Her ordeals are harsh, but she doesn't despair. This young woman simply does not give up---making this a wonderfully inspirational story for children. I have only one quibble, and I chose to suspend my disbelief because the author writes so exquisitely:  I don't think that the stepson in a second marriage could ever have inherited entailed property, much less a title, in England. But it doesn't matter---it's a quibble that will bother only die-hard researchers in English history.	2001-11-24
US	52844379	R28QR1ZJ7I6ZL2	0727855921	347642332	Pray and Die (Jordan Lacey)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Different, quirky, and I want more!	Jordan Lacey couldn't make it as a policewoman, so now she's freelancing as a private eye in the small south England coastal town of Latching. She sets up shop in an area that's rapidly deteriorating and sells the odd thrift-shop item in-between cases. (She cases all the local charity shops to stock her wares, marking them all Six Pounds.) Jordan has a quirky personality, ongoing trouble with men, a bad case of pollution-caused asthma, and sometimes rubs folks the wrong way. Her initial foray into investigative work, with three cases (one's not hers, but the police can't lock her out) that fold into each other in a clever way, is a fast, funny, downright good read, in an overcrowded field, that of the cozy mystery. (Although there might be more violence here than in the usual cozy... ) Poison-pen letters, World War II intrigue, runaway teenagers, an unusual stepparent/stepchild relationships, a hospice that can't keep track of its nursing sisters...the characters will fascinate and keep one guessing what's going on. I hope reappearing characters will include sexy/morose Detective Inspector James; the pensioner with time on his hands who advises Jordan on rare books; the various worldly-wise ladies who run the cafs and grocery shops and keep an eye on her; and the male parasites Jordan unfortunately attracts, among them the married man she's much too good for. This is a feisty, likable, goodhearted heroine with a spirited, unique personality and odd eating habits who will get under the reader's skin. Stella Whitelaw, we want more! (Please :)	2001-10-19
US	52844379	R1BOJVJO33OU32	0688158676	361246513	Playing Dead: A Hollywood Mystery	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Low-key whodunnit by a Hollywood insider	Unlikely amateur sleuth Lucy Freers, 5 months pregnant, mother to 5th-grader Chloe, and the wife of an A-List Hollywood producer, stubbornly forges ahead when she realizes her temporary live-in nanny, Brandon McKenna (a former lover) was probably not the latest victim of some lowlife highway shooters, but got in the way of a killer. Animator Lucy accidentally finds a tape seeming to show the murder of a casting director who was pushed to her death by a child actor, and wonders if Brandon was blackmailing the murderer. It's more involved than that, and a cast that includes a cynical LAPD detective, the fashion-challenged Terry Shoe, a bevy of unpleasant wannabe-child stars and tantrum-throwing child stars, horrific stage mothers who'll stop at nothing to see their children on the big screen, and a lesbian mother-to-be, will keep readers turning the pages of this very nicely paced mystery novel set amongst the palms and nutters of LaLaLand. Now I'll have to find a copy of Maracotta's first book!	2001-09-28
US	52844379	R2447IHHHIKG9V	0061082023	622118142	A Gypsy at Almack's (Harper Monogram Regency)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A genre gem!	This is a perfect little gem of a Regency romance, a model of how very, very good this genre can be. Although I was led to believe---by several fellow writers who recommended it---that it was hilarious, it is not so much hilarious as tongue-in-cheek funny. Very funny. The author has an accomplished sense of humor. Lucy Saint-Clair, after 4 Seasons, has not taken. No suitors save an elderly baron one step away from sticking his spoon in the wall. Her Godmother Tabitha Theale, desperate, seeks help from her dissolute brother, Ernest, Lord Rune, to bring Lucy into fashion. Lucy is overweight, opinionated, devoid of most of the social graces, and equipped with fearsome, forbidding, thick, dark eyebrows. She is pitifully unaware of how to play the game at Almack's marriage mart. Ernest, jaded, older, tired of life, is jolted back to that life by the unexpected originality of this woman. Nothing he had ever thought he wanted, but, when the realization does hit that she is the only woman on God's sweet earth for him, he goes after her with a vengeance. (Takes him too long, but Regency heroes---think Mr. Darcy---are obtuse in the extreme.) This novel is peopled with wonderful secondary characters with wonderful names. Laurence Feather; Diligence, his housemaid and other; Cassy and Grace, the Theale sisters; Mina and Letty, who make too brief an appearance, Lucy's twin sisters; Tabitha, a determined mother and matchmaker; Sybil Rant, the unaccommodating modiste, who knows everything about everybody; Bibble, Puffwort, Pudder, and a slew of other well-meaning (and put-upon) servants. A delight for those who value well written prose and unusually lovely turns of phrase. It is a perfect little book. In romance novel parlance, a keeper. According to what I've heard, Chloe Cheshire aka Laura Amy Schlitz, is no longer writing Regencies. Now, that IS a shame!	2001-05-22
US	52844379	R1NXANFV639PR4	0446524484	546935940	A Little Love	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Latina gal-pals live, love, and vent	A Little Love has been compared to Terry McMillan's Waiting To Exhale, another book with minority (Afro-American) protagonists, but it really fits into a much larger grouping, a long line of confessional books of female friends venting all to each other. Patricia Gaffney's Saving Graces, Maeve Binchy's Circle of Friends, all these fit into the canon under the much larger umbrella of women's fiction. You do NOT have to be a Latina in order to enjoy this novel. The stories here are all fascinating, the women just different enough to hold the reader's interest. A reader will find one or more of the four Latinas with whom to identify, be it the Dominican socialite, the Cubana divorcee, or the academic Chicana. I felt for the academic, Julia, who is slow to know passion, but when it hits---! Wow!!! But my favorite is the extroverted, hyperkinetic Cubana Mercy, who, after a lifetime of finding love in all the wrong places, finds love in an unexpected place. Her mother, who gets into trouble taking questionable contraband to Cuba, is a hoot! She made me laugh out loud more than once. It would not, however, be much fun for a woman to have her as a mother. In fact, she is thoroughly impossible, but adds good dollops of humor to the story, which is not all fun and games. And I adore the proliferation of Spanish words and phrases! I grew up in a bi-lingual household, and this is what it sounded like. You understood what was said through context, even if you didn't always know the exact word or words. Oye meng! This is a funny, fast-moving book. I look forward to C.C. Medina's next foray into fiction.	2001-05-19
US	52844379	RGG3NMPWAU782	006019538X	366053259	La Cucina: A Novel of Rapture	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Odd but Good!	Not a book for everyone, but a small gem of a book that does indeed capture the Sicilian ethos. Prior's prose is poetic, and her images lasting. In addition, she has an excellent knowledge of Sicilian cooking (it's different from Italian in many ways)and her food descriptions will make readers who love good food salivate. The story, narrated by Rosa, is more of a fairy tale than realistic fiction. The Siamese twin brothers, Guerra and Pace (War and Peace), the father and lover who disappear, the highly dramatic family vengeance scenarios...all these are acceptable because, in Sicily, this sort of stuff is the stuff of everyday life, but it's not to be taken literally. It is, however, wonderfully written, with a great deal of lyricism and panache, and anyone who loves the English language and mythical storytelling will get a lot out of it. Prior is quite good, really excellent. I await her next book with great enthusiasm.	2001-02-09
US	52844379	R7460UFT57S43	0312198493	441085885	Crazy for You	Books	5	0	0	N	N	And You Thought Small Town Life Was Dull?!	Quinn McKenzie teaches art in Tibbets H.S. and lives with the popular baseball/football coach, Bill Hilliard, the nicest guy in town. Everybody just loves Bill! Quinn, though, is beginning to wake up to the fact that Bill pressured her into the relationship, that she doesn't love him, and doesn't particularly care for all the life-plans Bill has laid out for her. What brings matters to a head is the ugly (but totally precious) little mutt that Quinn decides to adopt. What Bill does to this animal will rouse the strongest emotions in those who care for animals. He's not by any means a nice guy. In fact, he's a control freak and he may very well be crazy. As Quinn's so-called perfect life falls apart, her parents face a crisis in their relationship, and so does her best friend, Darla. Darla's married to Max, the brother of town bad boy Nick Ziegler, who used to be married to Zoe, Quinn's older sister. (Are you following all this? Well, there's more :) Jennifer Crusie does a fine job depicting life in a very small town where everyone's business is everyone else's business, and where perceptions of people are often very much at odds with their true natures. This is a quick read, a funny read, a romantic/very sexy read, and, at times, a pretty scary read. For any woman who was ever in a crazy relationship and wanted to pull herself out of it, Crazy For You is a must-read.	2001-02-04
US	52844379	R2TOFS7TTN7JJN	0312179405	74138788	Tell Me Lies	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Crusie breaks out of category romance with a vengeance!	Crusie wrote formulaic category romances for years, but her books were way ahead of the pack, funny, intelligent, excellent reading. Her characters were real, fully-rounded people. I enjoyed Tell Me Lies, with one small quibble (which I'll go into later). It is a wonderful character study of a small town (Frog Point) good girl, the one who married the high school football hero and lived happily ever after. Not! No, Maddie Martindale Faraday's dream marriage is a sham. Her husband Brent is a philanderer, and worse. The only thing that's been holding this marriage together is their 8-year-old daughter, Emily, whom both adore, and suddenly it is not enough. The reappearance of C.L. (you'll love what those initials stand for!) Sturgis, the hot, bad boy of Maddie's high school days, is the further catalyst for Maddie's personality change. He's in town on a specific  mission, but seeing Maddie makes him want to stay. Funny dialogue, a good mystery, sexy scenes, and even a puppy, will keep the reader going, but my quibble is with the intrusion of Emily's thoughts into the book's otherwise fast pace. Stops you dead, in my opinion, though Em is a good character, and a smart kid. I love the obvious and subtle ties among the townspeople, where everyone is related somehow to someone else, by blood or business, and family stigmas can never be erased, no matter how much anyone tries to achieve. The down side to small town life is sharply and honestly portrayed.(&quot;Well, she's a Lowery, what can you expect?&quot;---Oh, those self-fulfilling prophecies! Save us!)  Highly recommended, as are all of Crusie's books.	2001-02-01
US	52844379	R131QDKRJ9V6IK	0385334931	237199137	Sometimes I Dream in Italian	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Get over the stereotype! Ciresi tells it like it is	I had to laugh at one of the reviewers who was disturbed that his stereotype of the happy, singing, close-knit Italian-American family had been shattered. He's got to get over it. Rita Ciresi tells it like it is. Growing up with a bunch of semi-illiterates from the Old World is not wonderful. It can seriously screw you up for the rest of your life. When Ciresi talked about being unable to buy a Mother's Day card for her stroke-felled mother, I totally empathized. I was never able to buy a sappy Mother's Day card for my Sicilian mother, either. She was a mean, nasty woman, and physically abusive to my younger sister. So, her life wasn't great, but whose fault was that? She took her anger out on others, just as Angel and Lina's mother does in these bittersweet tales of growing up. Yeah, Hallmark and American Greetings don't make the kind of cards that go with the sentiments my mother brought out in me.  These stories are not pretty, but they are fine, beautifully written and well constructed. The life of a poor, first-generation Italian-American is honestly chronicled and well told. Brava for Ciresi! It's not easy to write about these things. I write, too, but my fiction is far, far removed from my real life. Ciresi has more guts than I have. Her stories have the taste and sting of bitter, lived truth. And they're good stories, too, though not at all happy ones.	2001-02-01
US	52844379	R6QAMRUV7HVIG	0312205406	963436946	Hot Six	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Laugh-out-loud hilarious!	This is the funniest Stephanie Plum mystery ever! I kept laughing out loud (good thing I was reading it at home and not on the bus!) Although I figured out pretty early on what was happening in the plot, the wacky characters were so funny, the dialogue so peppy, the situations so very fast and breaking in-your-face, that the story just marched on briskly to an ending that came much too soon. I saw a movie called Snatch yesterday, and the two dumb hired guns threatening our Steph, Habib and Mitchell, could have stepped out of the book and into that movie. Best line:  in thinking about Habib and his many digressions on what the men in his Pakistan village would do to independent women like Stephanie, she muses that on second thought, she didn't think Habib came from a village in Pakistan, but directly from Hell. New to this book are the two stoners, The Mooner and Dougie, and Carol Zabo, who makes a habit of threatening to jump off bridges. The old gang, though, is back in full force, esp. my favorite, the plus-size ex-'ho, Lula, the slimy Vinny Plum, Joyce Barnhardt, bounty-hunter-wannabe (who gets a delicious, delicious come-uppance!), and the two sexiest men in popular fiction, cop Joe Morelli and the enigmatic Ranger. Stephanie's cup runneth over with these two hunks to play with :) And how could I have forgotten Bob, the dog, whose digestive processes save Stephanie at a pivotal point in the story? (How Stephanie winds up a dog-owner is also very funny.) Love it, love it, love it! Janet Evanovich, you are a treasure!	2001-01-26
US	52844379	RFZT4NEROT228	0385335318	466643093	More than a Mistress	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Honor, what a concept!	Reading anything by Mary Balogh, the queen of Regency writers, makes one hunger for more. Balogh's command of the mores and manners of the times when George IV was regent of England (roughly 1811-1820) is spot on. The plot of More Than A Mistress hinges on the Regency concept of Honor, and how far an honorable man will go to preserve it. It's difficult for someone in the 21st century to understand all this, when a few words could clarify a situation that might turn deadly, but Balogh takes us easily into this rare world, with elan, charm, and great, great passion. I agree with the reader who cited the kiss-in-the-darkened-hallway scene. The heat generated could have warmed up half of London! Tresham and Jane are marvelous, feisty, intelligent flesh-and-blood lovers, characters worthy of the Balogh canon. I just wish there were more books by Mary Balogh this year than More Than A Mistress. Balogh's books are addictive, like rich dark Belgian chocolates, and I cheerfully confess my cravings.	2000-11-11
US	52844379	R2YVHP84AWS63F	0553286447	287368783	Stalking the Angel (Elvis Cole, Book 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Yakuza Gets Taken Down!	Yep, Elvis Cole tackles the scary, heartless Japanese Mafia, the Yakuza, as he attempts to find an ancient, priceless manuscript that has been  stolen from the world's worst human being, a businessman probably as  heartless as the dread Yakuza. That Elvis! Does he get great clients, or  what? Protecting himself from the businessman's sexual predator wife and  trying to protect their vulnerable, at times almost catatonic, teenaged  daughter, while trying to hunt down the elusive Japanese manuscript, keeps  Elvis on his toes and readers on the edge of their seats.  Joe Pike, his  silent (but deadly) partner, brings all the big guns into this  explosive---and surprising!---finale. Excellent! Don't miss this one.	2000-08-19
US	52844379	R1IZZO2EGH3LDT	0553275852	814945983	The Monkey's Raincoat  (Elvis Cole)	Books	5	19	21	N	N	A ten-star detective novel!	This is a perfect, beautifully crafted detective novel. Not surprising it  was nominated for so many awards and won a couple of them. Wise-cracking  Elvis Cole and his silent (but deadly) partner Joe Pike are a formidable  pair. When Elvis sets out to find Ellen Lang's missing husband Mort and  their young son, he can't help but repair her low self-esteem along the  way. Elvis cares, and Joe (in his way) cares, too.  Crais makes the reader  care about all of his characters; this is a fully-fleshed novel that  transcends genre, as the best genre writing does. <br />Highly, highly  recommended. The action never lets up; it's a great read, one of the best  in the series.	2000-08-19
US	52844379	R1JFQZVK3S4VRT	0553299514	594241958	Lullaby Town : An Elvis Cole Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	WOW!	Robert Crais just gets better and better. Lullaby Town, his take on Hollywood types and the Mafia, is crammed full of action and fascinating  characters. When Peter Alan Nelsen hires Elvis Cole, &quot;the World's  Greatest Detective,&quot; to locate his ex-wife and child, the race is on.  It's been over ten years, and the obnoxious Nelsen has become one of  Hollywood's top-grossing directors. Now he's decided he wants to be a  father. It is quite a mystery---how does a celebrity like Nelsen not get  contacted by his ex-wife? You'd think she'd want something from him, right?  Or, if not for her, for her son.  When Elvis does track the lady down, she  claims not to be Karen Shipley, the ex-wife and movie-star-wannabe. Funny,  the photo looks exactly like her, and her son could be Nelsen's young  clone... What is going on here? One heck of a story! From unreal,  insincere, tinseltown LA to virtuous, real small town Connecticut, to the  seamy and rotten Big Apple of the NYC Mafia underworld and its assorted  creeps and hitmen, Lullaby Town (where does Crais get his great titles?)is  among the best in this superlative detective series.	2000-08-19
US	52844379	R2OE6Z7D5I95MX	0553526480	487267340	L.A. Requiem	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Excellent audio-cassette is right on target!	Robert Crais has created a terrific series detective, Elvis Cole,  otherwise known as &quot;World's Greatest,&quot; as he's dubbed by police  detective Samantha Dolan. (More about her, later.) John Bedford Lloyd has  just the right voice for Elvis, Pike, and the other male characters in this  story, but falters with the women, especially with Lucy Chenier, Elvis's  love interest.<br />The random killings in Los Angeles that claim an  ex-girlfriend of the enigmatic Joe Pike, Elvis's silent (but deadly)  partner, brings us Pike's backstory, and we finally find out what happened  to make Pike the most despised ex-LAPD uniformed officer in its history.  Worth waiting for!  A truly vicious killer and an equally nasty detective  named Krantz (otherwise known as &quot;Pants&quot;) out to get Joe Pike  keeps up the high level of suspense.<br />Ah, yes, Samantha Dolan. In my  opinion, a worthier partner for Elvis Cole than the whiny Lucy Chenier.  Dolan is strong, smart, and goodlooking, and Elvis IS tempted.  I didn't  much care for Lucy at all in this one.  If you love someone, you trust him.  Period. She flunks the test. I hope Crais dumps her and gives Elvis a  break; he deserves better than this. (Lloyd's off rendition of her  &quot;Scarlett O'Hara voice,&quot; as Dolan dubs it, makes her particularly  unsympathetic.)<br />Wonderful tape!  Long and delicious.	2000-08-19
US	52844379	R1GPULU28SI1WQ	1855857278	932198790	Fashions of the Past (Historical Guide to World Costumes)	Books	5	17	20	N	N	High quality costume illustrations in an attractive package	Subtitled &quot;A Historical Guide To World Costumes,&quot; Buruma's  survey boasts a foreword by Dr. Aileen Ribiero, head of the History of  Dress department at the Courtauld Institute of Art. What makes the book  unique are the color plates, which originally came from the Munchener  Bilderbogen, published between 1848 and 1898 and reproduced in a British  book, Costumes Of All Nations, in 1901 and 1907. The high quality color  plates come from a variety of places, antique sculpture, frescoes and other  wall paintings, illuminated manuscripts, fashion plates, portraits, earlier  costume books. With four grouped illustrations to a page, these are not  overly-large depictions, nor can they be all-inclusive in their coverage of  a period, but the detail is excellent, and, as Dr. Ribiero says in her  introduction, &quot;they are detailed enough for the modern designer to  find useful, giving a sense of the colour and appearance of costume both  ancient and modern.&quot;  The work is arranged chronologically, then by  region of the world. Fascinating and beautifully done.	2000-08-05
US	52844379	RC62Q3A1XL06I	0451198166	715949643	Miss Treadwell's Talent (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Sparring Partners Meet Their Match!	Barbara Metzger, one of the funniest Regency authors today---no, make that  one of the funniest authors, period!---has done it again. Though it starts  a bit slowly, once the entire disreputable cast of characters is assembled,  Miss Treadwell's Talent never lets up. Maylene Treadwell and her mother,  Thisbe, Lady Tremont (widow of a dissolute baron who lost all his money)  are genteel and impoverished. Lady Tremont is blessed with a rare talent  for communicating with the dead; Maylene has a talent for finding things  and people thought lost. When the distressed Duke of Mondale comes to them,  in desperation over his missing daughter, they will hold seances, send out  investigators, and leave no stone unturned to get to the bottom of the  mystery.  Of course, Socrates Hughes (and don't you just love this hero's  name?), the Earl of Hyatt, dismisses the mother-daughter duo and their  minions as charlatans, out to cheat the duke and feather their nest  handsomely with his gold guineas.  Belinda, the duke's missing daughter, is  Soc's fiancee (not announced yet, though), and he should want her found,  no? Well, yes...and no.  Not after meeting Maylene, to whom he is both  attracted and repulsed. Their bickering and undeniable attraction is  charming and amusing to read. Even as he blisters May with criticism, his  lips keep straying to hers...again...and again...and again! And I haven't  even started on the hilarious secondary characters yet.  Be assured,  though, that every Jack will wind up with his Jill. Absurd though some of  these matches may seem, all of Ms. Metzger's people (and animals!) are  truly made for each other. Her instincts are unerring. The wonderful  animals in this Regency include a kitten who's mistaken for a puppy, a dog  that comes back from the dead younger and ungelded, and a spectral pooch  who saves the day for a young married couple and a fisherman. Terrific,  just terrific! And, yes, I agree with the other reviewer who says that Ms.  Metzger's books cry out for filming; her sight gags are irrepressible.	2000-07-08
US	52844379	RX062PWQS919O	0375704248	340816337	Falling Slowly	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Beautifully written and extremely depressing	I once bumped into Anita Brookner at a museum exhibition in London. She looked fiercely intelligent, exactly like her photograph in Falling Slowly, and she gave me the odd impression that there was a zone surrounding her, a  wall, if you will, of privacy.  I instinctively stepped back to give her  that space. Was this my imagination, this wall? Or had I read too many  Anita Brookner novels and identified her too closely with her protagonists?  I don't know.  But I have read a number of Brookner novels, and, while  enjoying her fine, nuanced writing, I have always wanted to get out and  interact with others after I have finished one of her books. Her characters  are so isolated, so lonely, so trapped in worlds of their own making, never  seeming to get anywhere, going round and round in circles of  carefully-controlled routine. Dismaying, and ultimately depressing. In this  book, two sisters, Beatrice and Miriam Sharpe, who grew up in a cold home,  with parents who were unhappily married, go through the motions of living.  Beatrice is a concert pianist manque who ended up in a dead-end job as an  accompanist. Miriam translates French novels into English (or  vice-versa---it's not clear), a solitary occupation that she conducts at  home and at the London Library. Beatrice, a romantic, never gets the  romance in real-life that she finds in romance novels. Miriam's 5-year  marriage to a scientist ends when he leaves for Canada with his lab  assistant. Miriam could care less. She moves in with her sister, and then  back out, but they wind up together at the end, not particularly happy in  each other's company, but not particularly happy in anyone else's company,  either. Even Miriam's affair with Simon, a too-handsome married man, a  classic womanizer, is not very much fun. Is there sexual fulfillment?  Brookner barely goes into that. Another man, Tom Rivers (a play on the  Rivers character in Jane Eyre), might be just what Miriam needs after Simon  dumps her, but he isabruptly removed from the scene.  Several reviews  indicate that the book ends on a positive note. That needs  qualification---what's positive for a character in a Brookner novel doesn't  pass for positive in many other places. Yes, Miriam, after Beatrice's  death, seems to be interacting a bit more with other people, but not so  that anyone with a richer social and emotional life would recognize. While  I respect Brookner's writing skill, I would recommend Falling Slowly only  to die-hard fans.	2000-06-25
US	52844379	R2ULP5F1WPPKWR	0312144350	186146521	Topping from Below: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	S&amp;M Classic	Despite a bit of clunkiness in the plotting, and too many pages to get where it's going, Topping From Below is an S&amp;M classic. It's strong stuff, not ordinary fare. &quot;M&quot;, the sadistic master, may well have  killed the heroine's too-submissive little sister. To find out the truth,  the heroine will have to play his game. It's a game she is reluctant to be  drawn into...at first...but she becomes caught in the master's web.  There  are powerful and graphic scenes here, turn-ons as well as turn-offs, as the  game is played to its deadly conclusion. Unforgettable. If you think you  should read one S&amp;M novel in your lifetime, this should be the one you  pick.  But, be warned, it will stay with you. Not surprising it has  achieved such a large, intense cult following.	2000-06-24
US	52844379	R23U0EX4LW4J85	0452281296	559569265	In the Cut	Books	1	5	10	N	N	In A Word:  Sickening!	I don't think I've ever read a book that disturbed me more than Moore's. It's blatant Grand Guignol, blood and gore and sadism, peopled with characters devoid of humanity with whom it's not possible to empathize. I  also feel it is totally anti-woman. The macho detectives' attitude toward  women is sick-making, but the &quot;heroine&quot; just laps it up, panting  to be abused over and over again. She's not the poster child for the  woman's movement, that's for sure. The final scene is grotesque, sadistic,  bloody, and just plain downright nasty. Nicole Kidman bought this property  for a film? I wish her well with it---perhaps she can authorize a complete  re-write and wash its mouth out with soap.  P.S., it deserves no stars  whatsoever.	2000-06-23
US	52844379	R1YGUJFQC3LQ48	0451164040	616824370	A Promise of Spring	Books	5	35	36	N	N	Opposites attract, and so do older women!	Thirty-five-year-old Grace Howard has kept house in the village of Abbotsford for her younger brother, Paul, the vicar, for nine years. The Howards seem to have no other family. Unbeknownst to the villagers, Paul  and Grace left home after an acrimonious family quarrel, occasioned by the  accidental death of Grace's out-of-wedlock child. Now Paul is dead, also  the result of an accident involving great heroism: he saved a farm  laborer's child and lost his own life. Grace has no one to turn to, think  Paul's friends and his parishioners, so one of them, Sir Peregrine Lampman,  offers to marry her. Grace agrees, but only after she tells him her tragic  story. It will be a marriage of convenience, but Perry is fond of her, and  she of him, though he is ten years her junior. He is also an outwardly  jolly, gently flirtatious man who adores women...of all ages...and they,  him. By contrast, Grace is quiet, of a serious bent, almost severe. And so  begins this romance of a seemingly mis-matched pair who overcome family  estrangement and the sudden appearance of Grace's old lover from the past  and begin, slowly, to forge their own happiness. They have been right for  each other all along, despite the age and personality differences.  Sweet  and gentle, and one of Mary Balogh's most heart-rending, poignant love  stories, this is also one of her most unforgettable Regency novels. It was  a daring move to make the heroine so much older than the hero, but  Balogh---in her inimitable fashion--- makes it work!	2000-06-22
US	52844379	R20E7MCKCLN7SB	0451200381	259612325	Saved by Scandal (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	40	41	N	N	So Many Scandals!	Whoever said Regencies were all the same, and tended to be boring and predictable, obviously never read Barbara Metzger. The Woodbridge family is scandal-central, with a history of hugger-mugger relatives and on-dits  enough to fill several newspapers for years. When Lord Galen Woodbridge is  jilted at the altar by Lady Floria Cleary, it's just one scandal too many,  and he decides to give the ton something even juicier to chew on.   Impulsively, he offers for songbird Margot Montclaire, whom half the young  bucks in London have been angling after with no success.  Pretty blonde  Margot (actually a baron's daughter in disguise who sings in public to  support her sickly little brother)just as impulsively accepts his offer.   They will try it for 6 months, as in a marriage of convenience.  If they  rub together tolerably well, it will become a marriage in fact.  But  nothing is ever easy or as it seems, in a Metzger novel, and things begin  to get complicated very quickly. Suffice it to say that the scandalous  happenings never stop, and the hilarity never ends, as piqued ex-fiancees,  hoydenish sisters, murderous uncles, impossible ecclesiatics, a lively  assortment of servants, and a truly heroic dog named Rufus (Ruff, for  short) make trouble for our hero and heroine. Remember Ruff---he's not  beautiful, by any means, but he is loyal and true, and he is going to save  the day and be worth every single leather glove, lobster pattie, and  Gunter's pastry he's ever wolfed down. Regency buffs who enjoyed the two  Marians---Chesney and Devon---will find even greater satisfaction with  Metzger, who knows how to tell a story, create funny and endearing  characters, and how to keep those readers turning the pages, fast!	2000-06-17
US	52844379	R144R25IZN7E30	0821762885	244919481	The Lady's Tutor (Zebra Splendor Historical Romance)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Five Stars For *H*O*T*	I came across this title while looking at a Web site of romance novel covers. The original cover had the voluptuous torso of a Victorian lovely in an unlaced corset, chemise off her shoulders. In the background could be seen the shadow of an undressed male, his hand hovering at the woman's  shoulder.  A very erotic cover, for a very erotic book. THE LADY'S TUTOR is  more than simply erotic, however. It verges (and there is more than one  meaning for that innocent-seeming word!) on the raw. It's graphic and  explicit, and truly not for everyone.  This book, detailing the  erotic/sexual education of a repressed Victorian wife by an extroardinarily  studly half-Arabian/half-English lord, is understandably a cult favorite  among aficionadas of the genre, and an education in and of itself. It will  be difficult for readers to forget Elizabeth Petre and Ramiel, Lord Sayfre.  The plot... is secondary to Elizabeth's tutoring in the erotic  arts, and unsavory, as well. Nasty stuff, when all is finally revealed.  Rating the secondary plot alone would probably bring this down to 3 stars,  but the primary plot, the thrust (!) if you will, is the interaction of the  two protagonists. All else pales by comparison.	2000-06-16
US	52844379	R3NKSQC3KS392Y	0380704161	409225574	Through a Glass Darkly	Books	5	81	82	N	N	This book made me cry...	...it is a terrific love story, really a bunch of love stories, all poignant. The relationship between Barbara and her grandmother is beautiful, the relationship between Barbara and her husband, DeVane, is  tragic. Someone else called this the story of a dysfunctional family---that  was an understatement! Set against the intrigues of the French court in the  early 1700's and the South Sea Bubble venture, this is the story of a  headstrong young woman who's determined to marry a man clearly not right  for her, a man whose romantic and sexual past will come back to haunt the  girl he marries. Koen pulls no punches. People die, children become ill,  fortunes disappear, lives are ruined, love affairs turn out badly, but the  wonderful Barbara will get through it all and emerge a stronger, better  woman. Get out your handkerchiefs! The biggest problem I have with Karleen  Koen's great big terrific historical novels is that she writes so few of  them.  She can give the more prolific Diana Gabaldon a good run for her  money!	2000-06-09
US	52844379	RTCJK2O59ZARP	0385332831	320776985	The Poyson Garden (Elizabeth I Mysteries, Book 1)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Queen To Die For!	And her followers are prepared to do just that... Karen Harper has successfully evoked Bloody Mary's England on the eve of Elizabeth I's ascent to the throne.  She's created a human, believable young woman,  terrified of plots against her royal person, trusting her loyal retainers  despite warnings that no one is to be trusted, and truly regal, withal.   The historicals details are many and fascinating and this is a terrific  mystery, too!  The identity of the poisoner, and the poisoner's ties to  Queen Mary, is keep in abeyance to the very end; the suspense is excellent.   'Tis often said that a certain book is &quot;hard to put down&quot;---in  this case, it's absolutely true.  I look forward to Harper's next Elizabeth  I adventure, The Tidal Poole.	2000-06-08
US	52844379	R33PYBRSEEHQXN	0140233946	117251154	Cut to the Quick (Crime, Penguin)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Classic Debut Detective Story With A Classy Detective	Julian Kestrel is, to outward appearances, a Regency Dandy. In reality, his is a keen and logical mind, well suited to solving mysteries. Invited to be groomsman (best man) at the wedding of a young man, Hugh Fontclair,  whom he barely knows, Kestrel becomes involved in that proud and arrogant  family's worst secrets, secrets that come to the fore when a young woman is  found murdered.  In Kestrel's bed.  Who is she? And why was she murdered?  And, by whom?  Initial suspicion falls on Dipper, Kestrel's valet, formerly  a London pickpocket. Kestrel must redouble his efforts to find the answer  to the mystery -- and the murderer -- before his manservant is led away to  be hanged.  Meanwhile, the relationship between Hugh and his bride-to-be,  the daughter of a cit of low origins (he used to work in the Fontclair  stables)becomes problematic when Hugh is convinced Julian Kestrel is a  rival for Miss Craddock's affections. Lots of twists and turns in this  ingenious plot, and I defy anyone to come up with the murderer before  Kestrel does! An auspicious beginning to a very fine series.  Kate Ross's  prose is elegant and her descriptions exquisite. She's in a class by  herself.	2000-06-06
US	52844379	R1908O9WU0LBL7	0425174689	573290210	Death on a Silver Tray: A Beau Brummell Mystery (Beau Brummell Mysteries)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The best-dressed sleuth in any historical mystery series!	And the cleverest! Rosemary Stevens has gotten Beau Brummell's &quot;voice&quot; down beautifully---just as I'd imagined he would sound and just as I'd imagined he would behave. The Beau, arbiter of Regency  fashion and things social, admirer of beauty in all forms (from women to  Sevres porcelain), is drawn into a murder investigation by his dear,  treasured friend Freddie, the Duchess of York.  He comes through admirably,  and the identity of the murderer is a real surprise, nicely done.  Stevens  has other good characters with Robinson, Brummell's valet, his crony  Petersham, and the Lavenders, father and daughter, respectively a Bow  Street investigator and the founder of a home for fallen women. And  Chakkri, the Siamese cat, is beyond description:  the feline equivalent of  George Bryan &quot;Beau&quot; Brummell. A delicious book! I will be looking  forward eagerly for the next installment.  Fans of the Jane Austen  mysteries will, I predict, flock to this new Regency sleuth. Brummell as  detective is just a fabulous idea.	2000-06-03
US	52844379	R2KMFO4EZXKQU3	042517428X	983788058	The Burning Point	Books	5	7	13	N	N	A Hot Topic That Pushes A Lot Of Sensitive Buttons	Mary Jo Putney has never shied away from tough issues. A number of people mentioned The Rake And The Reformer---one of her best books---which tackled the problem of alcoholism. This book tackles yet another sensitive issue, a  very sensitive issue, one in which, it seems, according to several  indignant reviews, it is politically and morally correct to hold only one  point of view. Unfortunately, these reviews, known in the reviewing jargon  as &quot;spoilers,&quot; totally ruin the enjoyment of reading The Burning  Point. Putney has crafted a story that slowly reveals itself, a story with  volatile protagonists engaged in a volatile trade---an excellent metaphor,  by the way. Knowing what the problem was, beforehand, between the  protagonists, weakens what Putney's trying to do. My personal advice is to  ignore the customer reviews and read only the editorial reviews.  Professional reviewers usually have enough sense not to give away major  plot points. It is truly dismaying to see all these spoiler reviews.   Whether or not the reader agrees with Putney's premise that people can  change---for the better---that reader deserves a clean read, without the  distraction of politically-correct reviews that simply become personal  sounding boards. Yes, this is an immensely serious topic, and no one denies  the tremendous suffering people have endured, nor makes light of it, not  when so many innocents have died, but give this very fine writer a chance  to explore the issue, without prejudice.  Readers deserve the opportunity  to make up their own minds. I wasn't at all sure, when I found out what  drove the couple apart, that redemption was possible. Putney made me  suspend my disbelief---as good writers can do---and I saw possibilities I  would not have believed before.  Give this book a chance.	2000-05-19
US	52844379	R2Q0BWWISXANEC	0380776170	376589566	The Last Hellion (The Scoundrels Series)	Books	5	38	39	N	N	Books by Loretta Chase are worth waiting for!	I've enjoyed Loretta Chase since she used to write Regencies for Walker Publishing. Her research is first-rate and her characters full-blown and believable.  The sexual tension she generates between her protagonists is  always exciting and rewarding, too. Grenville and Mallory are made for each  other, of course. Lydia Grenville was born to heal Mallory, the Duke of  Ainswood's, tortured soul. They both lost children they adored---Lydia her  little sister, Mallory his young nephew, and the losses bring them  together. But, first, sparks fly as the two challenge and bring out the  best (or is it the worst?) in each other and titillate the ton (English  high society) with their very public antics and capers. There's a great dog  in the story, too, great in size and great in personality.  Loretta Chase  is not one of those romance writers who comes out with a book every few  months, but when she does come out with one, it is &quot;cherce&quot; (to  quote Spencer Tracy describing Katherine Hepburn in one of their films).   Chase's novels are &quot;cherce&quot; and worth the waiting. Unforgettable,  too.	2000-05-11
US	52844379	R2ZREVFCVG698	0708991041	370404717	Mr Macgregor (CH) (Charnwood Library)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	A gardening roman a clef	Titchmarsh is a familiar figure in English gardeningcircles---he is a presenter on Gardeners' World and (I think) GroundForce. This story centers around a young gardener, Rob MacGregor, who is a true son of the soil. His father is a Scottish-born nurseryman and he was trained to the profession from boyhood, culminating in a university degree in horticulture. In addition, he is handsome and a devil with women. When he gets his own tv show, he runs afoul of make-believe gardeners who talk the talk but don't walk the walk. That is, they are television personalities first and foremost, who only dabble---as dillettantes---in gardening. Rob makes two enemies, Bertie Lightfoot and Guy D'Arcy, and there is a lot of behind-the-scenes jealousy that the reader knows just has to be real. But the story isn't that grabbing. It's competently written, but not that interesting. Rob's involvement with two women promises hot stuff, but that doesn't really happen, either. For weekend gardeners who want a look at the lives and doings of gardening pros, on and off the job.	2000-05-11
US	52844379	R3GG4NJO2ELXHV	0060805781	196752107	Cluny Brown	Books	5	58	62	N	N	A part tailor-made for Audrey Hepburn!	Ages ago, I heard of an English movie, Cluny Brown, with, I think, Jean Simmons and Charles Boyer. (Made during the early '40s?) But when I finally tracked down the novel from which it was taken, all I could think of was the young Audrey Hepburn, the Hepburn of Sabrina. (Not the pallid Jennifer  Love Hewitt of the recent tv-bio, but the real Audrey, as we all knew her.)  Cluny Brown is a young working class woman in 1938 London who is becoming a  trial to her plumber uncle, Arn (he and his late wife raised her when she  was orphaned as a baby). Cluny, described as tall and plain, but with  creamy skin and beautiful dark eyes, is beginning to attract too much  attention from men---to Uncle Arn's surprise and dismay, because he (and  the rest of the family) considers her extremely unattractive. She's sent  into service, in the Devon countryside, at Carmel Friars, a lovely country  manor.  There she meets an assortment of characters, including a priggish  chemist (drugstore owner) who fancies her, a Polish emigre writer, who  doesn't seem to fancy her at all, the son and heir, who's involved with a  blonde English beauty, an enthusiastic double-barreled young woman, Miss  Duff-Gordon, who raises rabbits, and on and on.  Cluny chafes at the lack  of freedom and becomes part of everyone's life, popping up at key moments  to comment on the action and providing a good deal of it herself.  A  charming look at England before WWII and at a refreshing character  reminiscent of two Hepburn movie heroines, Sabrina as well as Holly  Golightly.  We all knew that Cluny (real name, Clover) was a  diamond-in-the-rough, and was destined to become &quot;someone.&quot;  Lovely book.	2000-04-03
US	52844379	R5NVY7POC1S3X	0786889055	817260381	Voodoo River (Elvis Cole Novels)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Another winner in this classy private-eye series	Too bad the Booklist review gave everything away! There should be a law against the tell-everything review, whether book or film. Part of the enjoyment in reading Robert Crais's mysteries is how he builds his story.  It's called suspense. Since the plot has been served up, the only other  things to discuss are setting and characterization. As always, the  characters are unique and colorful (and the bad guys couldn't be worse  villains!) -- and Voodoo River stars an ancient and deadly snapping turtle  who figures importantly in the climax (but I won't tell you any more!) This  is the installment in which Elvis Cole mets the woman who may become the  love of his life, Lucy Chenier. A fast-paced and exciting read.	2000-03-27
US	52844379	RWCL3TKLYOHL4	0451199618	343902543	A Worthy Wife (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	41	41	N	N	The funniest last line in Regency fiction!	The Regency genre these days ranges from the old-fashioned, traditional romps to fantasy (time-travel), and tales featuring dark and brooding heroes. Metzger is in the traditional camp, with a difference:  her stories  are hilariously funny. Think Marian Chesney at her old-time, very best, but  with lots more going on and characters who have some depth, and you begin  to get an idea of what a Metzger Regency is like.  Charming Aurora Halle is  a delightful Regency heroine; she soon has Kenyon Warriner, the Earl of  Windham, wrapped around her dainty little finger.  He will do anything for  the pretty girl he married so impulsively to save her (mistakenly, as it  turns out) from ruin and scandal. She was about to be married to a  trigamist (is there such a word?)---anyway, he had at least 3 wedded  wives---one of whom is Kenyon's impossible sister, Brianne. Brianne has  become a drama queen, playing out the story of her ruin from behind closed  doors, shunning society and thoroughly annoying her family. How an  encounter with a masked highwayman during an aborted robbery brings her out  of her bout of the dismals is delicious to read. As is the love story  between yet another pair, Kenyon's wounded soldier brother and the  emotionally-wounded Nialla, another of the trigamist's victims. (Keep an  eye on Nialla's evil cat, too...) And I haven't even gotten started yet on  neurotic Aunt Ellenette and her alter-ego pug dog, the oft-quoted  Frederick. Then there's the monkey, gift of an eccentric aristocratic lady  who has the goods on everyone in the beau monde.... The cast of characters,  animal and human, will have you laughing out loud. Oh, that last line, you  wonder? Here it is:<br />&quot;....that's not me purring.&quot; <br />Barbara  Metzger, how DO you come up with these zany plots?  (Also recommended:  A  Loyal Companion, and The Primrose Path---all good prescriptions for fun and  laughter.)	2000-03-21
US	52844379	RW94HAOES3BC	0966800516	67180990	Miss Darby's Duenna	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Sweet and rollicking traditional Regency romance	A charming story, exceedingly well-told, with memorable and funny characters, set in Regency London. Harry Hawthorne, the feckless hero, has much to learn about women, and learn he does, albeit most reluctantly, with  the rakish Lord Mannerly as teacher.  Mannerly, bearing a huge (and  ultimately trivial, even silly)grudge against Harry, decides he will  despoil Harry's fiancee, Olivia Darby.  Miss Darby, feeling neglected by  Harry (and not realizing at first that Harry is masquerading as his own  grandmother in order to keep an eye on and to chaperone Olivia!), is about  to fall prey to the rake's intentions, but the day is saved just in the  nick of time, before reputations and lives are foolishly destroyed. A  lovely story, with a true Regency feel and flavor, harkening back to the  popular Georgette Heyer novels that were once the standard for the genre.  Suitable for young adult as well as adult readers.	2000-03-12
US	52844379	R216V0UKP1TWB0	0786860960	327415185	Sunset Express	Books	4	6	6	N	N	LA has a hot new private eye!	This is my first Elvis Cole book, but it won't be my last. I disagree with the reviews that write Cole off as a Spenser-for-hire clone and his buddy Pike as a Hawk-wannabe.  Cole is decent, and tough, and will do what has to  be done to take on the bad guys and the establishment---often one and the  same! The depiction of the rise and fall of Jonathan Green, world-class  criminal attorney who will do anything (emphasize &quot;anything&quot;!) to  get his millionaire client Teddy Martin off on the charge of murdering his  wife Susan, is a joy to read. Anyone who has ever had reservations about  lawyers will empathize with Elvis Cole as he starts to take Green down and  get at the truth of the Martin murder case, as the people who could supply  answers start turning up dead. Cole's romantic relationship with Lucy  Chenier (of Voodoo River) is re-established, and the possibilities there  (will Lucy move to LA with her son Ben?) are promising. Comparisons may be  drawn with fictional character Angeli Rossi and real-life cop Mark Fuhrman,  two LA detectives victimized by the so-called legal system. Fast-paced and  entertaining! Keep 'em coming....	2000-02-29
US	52844379	RW1Q71WXUDB9F	0451191951	31402136	The Brimstone Wedding	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The death of love---no one does it better than Barbara Vine!	Jenny/Genevieve Warner is one of the most appealing heroines in contemporary women's fiction. Vine (Ruth Rendell) creates a dark, complex plot that unwinds almost too slowly, drawing the reader inward, to a conclusion too horrifying to want to believe. How does love die? Many ways,  but none more sad than the story of Stella and her boyhood sweetheart,  reunited at last and lost to each other forever. Strong stuff! Is  redemption at hand with what might happen with Jenny and Richard, Stella's  son?  Vine leaves it open, but surely some happiness has to come out of all  this misery! Masterfully written; a poignant psychological mystery. The  setting --- the brooding, watery fens of England's east coast, adds a  subtle layer of unease to the story and almost becomes another character  with which to reckon. Another writer who does this well -- combining  mystery, broody setting, and psychological drama  -- is the wonderful  Minette Walters.	2000-01-26
US	52844379	RPNRSKV3ON8RF	034539044X	472208605	Rose	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A wounded hero and an enigmatic heroine in Victorian England	The book Rose most reminded me of is John Fowles' The French Lieutenant's Woman. Both have troubled heroes and enigmatic heroines, both are set in Victorian England, although Rose's coal-mining town is horrific, and the southern England seacoast settings in FLW are near-idyllic. Smith is a  master of clever plotting; he plants red herrings everywhere to lead the  reader astray. What IS really going on here!  You won't know until the very  end, but, along the way, you'll get a quick education in British  imperialist/industrialist history and a rare love story. Highly  recommended. You know the phrase, &quot;I couldn't put this down&quot;? You  will understand it better after you start reading this little gem of good  writing.	2000-01-26
US	52844379	RARXNF6ZK1YRN	0385323832	225201186	Cuba Libre	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Genre writing at its very best	Genre writers don't get any better than Elmore Leonard, noted for his gritty crime novels, many of which have been made into movies.  This one cries out for the young Robert Redford and Katharine Ross (remember Butch  Cassidy and The Sundance Kid?)and the big screen. Ben Tyler is the noble  cowboy with a bankrobbing past and Amelia Brown is the beautiful woman who  is no better than she should be, in this story set against the bombing of  the USS Maine and the opening days of the Spanish-American War in Cuba in  1898.  Villains you love to hate, appealing lovers, and the stereotypical  Elmore Leonard con man who winds up with the loot. Engrossing, fast-moving,  action-packed, and a lot of fun.	2000-01-26
US	52844379	R1YMQRHM8Z0I4R	0373256442	482599347	What The Lady Wants	Books	5	38	41	N	N	Maltese Falcon Redux....	Funny, funny spoof of The Maltese Falcon, only with a lot more passion. Crusie's characters are memorable, and her sense of humor is infectious. One of the better writers in category fiction---in fact, she is better than  category and should be writing mainstream women's (funny) fiction.(And,  boy, could she write some hilarious movie scripts!) In the same class as  Janet Evanovich (the Stephanie Plum mystery series), Susan Elizabeth  Phillips (bestselling contemporary romances), and Marian Keys (Irish author  of Watermelon).	1999-08-06
US	52844379	R3MG020MRUDABA	0312185863	935167398	Four to Score (Stephanie Plum, No. 4) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Stephanie and Morelli finally get it on!	Well, it took four books, but the hot-sweet simmering between New Jersey's most amazing bounty hunter and its hunkiest cop finally comes to a head in Four To Score, and it is well worth waiting for! The bathroom is already  steaming from Stephanie's shower when Joe Morelli makes his move, and  readers' hearts will beat a whole lot faster. Oh, yeah, the rest of the  story's not bad, either, with Stephanie on the trail of an elusive skip who  pops up every now and then to torment her ex-boyfriend...and Stephanie.  Grandma Mazur and the rest of the gang at Vinnie's Bail Bonds are in great  form, and there might be a new &quot;regular&quot; in the outlandish cast  of characters, a musical transvestite. Excellent plot involving counterfeit  $20 bills and folks who are not at all what they seem. Highly, highly  recommended, and then some!	1999-08-06
US	52844379	R2SZ1WHIWKHE48	082174979X	327141818	Lord Wakeford's Gold Watch (A Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An unusual and cheerful romance	You'll be charmed by perky, intelligent, resourceful Willie, a ladies' maid par excellance who covers up so well--too well!--her beautiful but rather scatterbrained mistress's kleptomaniac tendencies. A cheerful,  unusual Regency-era Cinderella story that serves up the requisite handsome  &quot;prince&quot;.	1999-07-22
US	52844379	R3569FKZ4LDS33	0446602760	140890792	The Guardian	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Lovers cruelly parted come together at last	No one does first person voice in Regency historical fiction better than Joan Wolf. She is an original! Annabelle tells her story here, and readers will be enthralled by this tale of lovers cruelly parted by their families  who reconcile at last, after a passage of years. Stephen is a noble hero,  much maligned, but true, and he deserves a second chance. Lovely  characterization, flowing plot. Check out Wolf's other first-person Regency  historicals, too. They are a treat!	1999-07-01
US	52844379	R10YW409KLOVAW	0451406737	960550187	Call of Duty	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The queen of military romance does it again!	Lovelace makes the military come alive with her fast-paced, timely plots and well-conceived characters. The romance is always hot and the protagonists believable and appealing. Jennifer and Mike don't seem to be  well-matched, but when they're together, the heat's turned on high. Readers  will enjoy the suspense and the romance both...neither lets up!	1999-07-01
US	52844379	RKO7Y3V8NUX5D	0374120803	575060326	Charming Billy	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Here's to all those who interfere in our lives!	This is a tough book. We've all known (and, alas, accommodated) a charming drunk. Billy Lynch is a ubiquitous type with an interesting story, but, above and beyond everything else, he is a drunk. Whatever was fated to  happen in his life, he would always be a drunk. His cousin Dennis, who  loves him like a brother, decides not to tell him the truth about his Irish  love, Eva. This decision will impact upon many lives, not only Billy's.  Dennis and Mary's romance will end, Billy will enter into a loveless  liaison, and the myth of the Irish girl who died will persist even into the  next generation. Dennis's guilt over his lie will hold him in thrall and he  will continue to excuse Billy's self-destruction and, at the end, take on  an added burden. A very sad tale of lives wasted and unfulfilled and a  cutting, cutting look at New York City's Irish-American immigrant class.  Thoughtless, dishonest Eva Kavanaugh and well-meaning but interfering  Dennis Lynch are equally villains in this short but penetrating tale, but,  ultimately, Billy has to bear the responsibility for his own wasted life.	1999-06-28
US	52844379	R3VWSJR9ZA8D5L	0440221684	215842571	Lescaut Quartet Shores of Desire	Books	5	4	5	N	N	One of the genre's brightest stars!	Tracy Grant is a terrific young writer. I have enjoyed all of her books; I've never been disappointed. Recently, while Web surfing, I came across a quote about this wonderful book, Shores of Desire, that I would like to  share with others. (Unfortunately, it was unattributed, so I don't know who  should get the credit for it---but it was not I.) &quot;Shores of Desire  includes scenes in and around the Battle of Waterloo and is one of the most  straightforward and moving descriptions of what a battlefield is like that  I have ever read.&quot; And she does the romance part great, too!	1999-06-19
US	52844379	R3CASXZEVCKQ35	0451181921	349074499	The Captain's Dilemma (Signet Regency Romances)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Dare she love an enemy of her country?	Gail Eastwood writes polished Regency fiction. This story of love between enemies---the French prisoner and the English lady---is beautifully done, and explores a subject not much written about. (The only other story on  love between enemies during the Napoleonic era that I am aware of--and  please correct me if I'm wrong--is the long-out-of-print Robert Louis  Stevenson's last novel, St. Ives.) There is a perfectly horrendous villain!  You will root for his downfall --- appropriately enough, at the hands of  the heroic French captain. A good, romantic read and a good look at the  historical treatment of French prisoners of war in England.	1999-06-19
US	52844379	RCMCYTSIHY25C	0375406204	470402851	The Seventh Child: A Lucky Life	Books	1	0	3	N	N	Memoirs are popular these days!	Freddie Mae Baxter is a character, but whether or not she is a very interesting character, and if her life is of interest to anyone else, is a matter of opinion. This book was awfully hyped-up (big article in The NY  Times a few weeks ago), but it's basically very lightweight. No great  insights, no depth,no interesting reflection on its times, and no great  charm (in my opinion, this lady is not even particularly likeable, sorry!)  In general, it's a huge bore. Memoirs are a popular format these days, but  why a publisher deemed this manuscript worthy of publishing is beyond me.   To paraphrase Gertrude Stein, there is no  here here.	1999-06-13
US	52844379	R1MBX6L6C6OPTP	0151001812	297422625	The Fencing Master	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Read the book, watch the movie!	These reviews of The Fencing Master sounded so familiar----there is a Spanish film based on the book, which is wonderful. Assumpta Serna plays the enigmatic pupil, and Astarloa is the talented Italian actor who was the  father in Padre, Padrone. This film came out in 1992---I saw it in  London---have no idea if it is available in the US.	1999-06-03
US	52844379	R113BBTH5BE6J0	0380776162	388209748	Lord of Scoundrels	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Dark, complex hero and smart, plucky heroine go at it!	Dain and Jessica are complicated, fully-fleshed-out individuals who---thank goodness---find each other and finally value the other's worth. A brilliant read and an unforgettable story, filled with humor,  originality, and intense romance. Sure, Loretta Chase doesn't flood the  market with her books---but she maintains their quality. To quote Spencer  Tracy (describing Katherine Hepburn), they're &quot;cherce!&quot;	1999-05-28
US	52844379	R3VZGUBM1N6HA1	0380787164	412899790	You and No Other	Books	5	7	12	N	N	Hilarious Regency gem!	The sexual tension and war of wills in You And No Other is a treat. The hero and heroine are wonderful, and the secondary characters are a hoot. Cathy Maxwell is a funny, funny gal, and you will love this very satisfying  read. (The scene where the hero bursts into song while tied up in the  cellar is one of my favorites---bondage and song, what's not to like?!)	1999-05-28
US	52844379	R2NJA7I0MYO5R2	0679436057	873293972	The Folding Star: A Novel	Books	2	6	8	N	N	Ambitious but not memorable	Hollinghurst is a good writer. I enjoyed reading The Swimming Pool Library, a book he kept under tighter control than this one, which suffers badly from over-writing. A good editor would have helped, because this  haunting story of love and obsession -- a plot that brings to mind stories  like A.S. Byatt's Possession -- has great potential. Hollinghurst drops the  ball, alas, with far too much description taking away from the core of the  story, the homoerotic obsession of the main character, his last great love,  and the peripheral mystery of who's killing young boys who hang around Le  Cassette, the gay bar. There's a terrific story here, but Hollinghurst has  not told it.	1999-05-24
US	52844379	R1L5Q4CHKBJS0P	0375404929	785389269	For the Relief of Unbearable Urges: Stories	Books	4	0	0	N	N	New Jewish talent and some offbeat stories	I was taken with several of the stories in this collection, which took me to a world (Orthodox Judaism) that I know little about. I noted the comparisons to the great Isaac Bashevis Singer with interest---and I would  agree there seems to be an influence there---but the story of the Gentile  who becomes a Jew during an epiphany in a NYC taxicab reminded me very much  of one of my favorite stories, Philip Roth's &quot;Eli The Fanatic.&quot;  Read the two of them together; they are excellent explorations of the same  fascinating subject, finding religion---and an offbeat one, at that! I will  be watching Englander's career; he could become another Singer, another  Roth, or his own unique self.	1999-05-24
US	52844379	R3AUMD7HX6OQ6O	0060924640	638355599	Hank & Chloe	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Real people/Real-life romance	Jo-Ann Mapson writes so real it hurts! Hank and Chloe are flawed human beings; they belong together, but their problems seem unsurmountable. Mapson provides no glib solutions, no easy fixes; love is hard, and it  doesn't always work out. She is a terrific writer, one who deserves to be  more popular and appreciated. This is mainstream women's---and  men's!---fiction at its best. What a lovely story.	1999-05-20
US	52844379	R3VS1APV2K517W	0380790904	143931696	A Well Favored Gentleman	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Selkie man meets witch woman and sparks fly!	I have a problem with romances in which the hero rapes the heroine, especially when she is asleep. We've come a long way, baby, and we don't need this. Dodd's fantasy romance, set in Scotland, also suffers from an  excess of plot. Disappointing effort from someone who's written better.	1999-05-06
US	52844379	R2Z2VP26NR23DA	0451196821	419360690	Marigold's Marriages	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Wizardry and hot romance from a top Regency author!	British writer Sandra Heath is one of the Regency genre's most imaginative authors. In Marigold's Marriages, an old Druid curse manifests itself in a particularly evil way, menacing the growing love between the widowed Marigold and the handsome nobleman Rowan. Together they must fight the evil  forces of an ancient spell which threatens not only them, but Marigold's  son, Perry, and the entire village of Avenbury. Fast-paced, lively, and  utterly different, it's a good introduction to Sandra Heath's style for new  readers, and an affirmation of her continuing growth towards the direction  of fantasy romance for all her many fans. An excellent cross-over book for  science fiction/fantasy readers, too.	1999-04-12
US	52844379	R1CSULDIFFTX5E	0821758179	356032099	Faery Magic	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Chosen for excellence by Library Journal Genre Reviewer!	FYI---Kristin Ramsdell, Library Journal's Romance reviewer, chose FAERY MAGIC as one of 1998's Notable Books, along with THIEF OF DREAMS by Mary Balogh, THE BRIDE FINDER, by Susan Carroll, THE LAST HELLION, by Loretta  Chase, and Rosemary Edghill's MET BY MOONLIGHT.	1999-02-12
US	52844379	R1K3JZXLR3H6NE	0451191471	169639966	The Last Waltz (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	True love triumphs after all!	The star-crossed lovers in Balogh's last Regency were separated by lies and greed ten years before the story opens. Now the heroine's nasty husband (a pious &quot;Christian&quot; who was in reality a brutal wife and child  beater) has died, and his cousin, whose love for her was thwarted, has  inherited his vast estate. Since then, he's also become a wealthy  (self-made) man in the Canadian fur trade. Now he's in England looking over  his inheritance and wondering if he should be looking for a bride. The cold  reception he receives from his former love doesn't deter him. He decides to  stay and invite a houseful of Christmas guests. Balogh does star-crossed  lovers well, she does children well, and she also does Christmas well (some  of her most marvelous stories have been set at that forgiving season of the  year). The combination is unbeatable! A warm and winning story to cherish  and re-read. True love doesn't die, and Balogh will make you believe in its  power all over again.	1999-02-11
US	52844379	R3TXR6DTR6F16Z	0874517389	630836881	Summer Light (Hardscrabble BooksFiction of New England)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Tensions and misunderstandings during a Maine summer	Robinson is a fine writer, with a spare, edgy style, and tells a good story. Two sisters and their husbands, lovers, and children share the rental of a Maine beach cottage and get to know each other better...or  worse. The main character, an aimless, about-to-be-divorced photographer  with a small son, lives with and off her lover, a tense and unlikable  lawyer. Her sister married the man she saw ---and fell in love with  first--- when she was a teenager. The sisters' relationship is strained (do  they really know each other?), but the end of the summer offers hope for a  new understanding. The sister's husband is affable, but the main  character's lover is problematic. He wants to marry her, and she seems to  come around to accepting, but can it be anything but a mistake? Open-ended,  almost-tragic climax resolves little of the tensions between the  protagonists, though, and leaves the reader hanging and wondering what's  next.	1999-02-05
US	52844379	R7KXNJZMO1UBP	0670819786	716819879	If This Was Happiness: A Biography of Rita Hayworth	Books	4	48	51	N	N	The tragic life of Hollywood's &quot;Love Goddess&quot;	Leaming takes a psychological approach to her film star subjects, backed up by key interviews and archival and print documentation. The story of Rita Hayworth, Hollywood's Love Goddess, is poignant and well told.  Hayworth was identified with her screen role, Gilda, the fiery, redhaired  temptress who drove men wild. In real life, though, as she was supposed to  have said, &quot;Men go to bed with Gilda and wake up with me,&quot; a sad  and ironic commentary on movie-fed fantasy. None of her five marriages  lasted long, and she was involved in countless lawsuits with husbands, her  studio (Columbia), and ex-husbands. Leaming posits a possible reason for  her failures as a lover, wife, and mother, that is, that she may have  suffered sexual abuse at the hands of her father, Eduardo Cansino.  Mature-looking beyond her years and a talented dancer, she was her father's  dance partner at 12, working to support her family in gambling casinos and  other dives south of the border. Leaming backs up her assertions by  relating Hayworth's adult behavior to that of incest survivors. She makes a  provocative case, but since Hayworth died prematurely of Alzheimer's  disease and never spoke on the subject, it has to remain pure--but  nonetheless tantalizing--speculation. A fascinating read, and a sad one.	1999-02-01
US	52844379	R2YVTEC1CVGCFK	0399524428	355955037	The Variety Guide to Film Festivals	Books	3	1	2	N	N	PS to last review!	Also omitted is the Franco-Spanish Film Festival -- held in Miami last year, sponsored by the French and Spanish governments,a venue mostly for Latin American films co-financed by the French and Spanish. It has been  going for at least two years. Another indication that this compendium of  film festivals is neither all-encompassing nor up-to-date.	1999-01-26
US	52844379	R2CQZ55UUVKCK6	0399524428	355955037	The Variety Guide to Film Festivals	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Good overview of film festivals but incomplete	Gaydos's guide is nicely-organized by date, which is helpful for film  festival entrants,and the various indexes (country, genre,etc.)are  excellent, but does it really include all-- or at least, all the major --  film festivals? If it doesn't, it's misleading to claim (from the back  cover) that &quot;you'll know all you need to know.&quot; One extremely  important festival it doesn't mention is the New York Film Expo, which is  the oldest venue for short independently-made films (narrative,  documentary, animation, experimental) in the United States. The Expo began  in 1966 or 1967 in Canton, New York,at St. Lawrence University and moved  with its founder, Nick Manning, to various campuses across the country  before settling in New York City.(It's now independently run.)Variety has  run articles about it, as has the Village Voice and like publications.  Danny De Vito, Spike Lee, and other filmmakers had among their first  exposures (and some the first of many awards) at this festival. If this  major festival was omitted from Gaydos otherwise well-done compendium, one  has to wonder how many others have also been omitted	1999-01-26
US	52844379	R27G6XF8K915R2	0517702606	745004034	Marilyn Monroe	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Marilyn Monroe As You've Never Seen Her Before!	Neither sensational, nor scandalous, nor trashy, Leaming's extremely well-documented tome concentrates on Marilyn Monroe's struggles with her studio, 20th Century Fox, and her relationship with the various men and  women in her professional life (agents, producers, directors, partners,  etc.) and in her personal life (boyfriends, husbands, ex-husbands, mentors,  psychiatrists, acting teachers, etc.) Monroe wanted to be in charge of her  own career, but was perceived by many (notably Daryl Zanuck)to be  talentless and empty-headed. She was anything but talentless and  empty-headed, but it was an uphill battle trying to convince those in the  positions of helping or hindering her career. Her growing paranoia (there  was mental illness in her family and Leaming says she feared she was next  in line)and her increasing performance anxieties finally did her in, and  she was fired by the studio. Her reputation as someone who was difficult to  work with and undependable made producers leery of hiring her. Growing ever  more dependent on her acting teachers (the Strasbergs) and her  psychiatrists (Marianne Kris and Ralph Greenson) and drinking and doping to  excess most probably led to her suicide. She'd attempted to kill herself  several times before. Her relationship with her husbands Joe DiMaggio and  Arthur Miller is explored in a fascinating new way. All you ever thought  you knew -- from the tabloids and the gossip columns -- may have just  skimmed the surface of the complex reality. A must-read for anyone  interested in the Marilyn Monroe phenomenon, the big Hollywood studios, and  the movie biz in general. Leaming's research and documentation are truly  impressive.Essential for any library/personal movie collection.	1999-01-19
US	52844379	R1X67ZEVSL9W83	0140266283	649319603	Part of the Furniture	Books	5	12	13	N	N	World War II Fairy Tale	The only negative thing anyone can say about Mary Wesley's novels is that there are so few of them! Not one of England's most prolific authors, Wesley is nonetheless one of its most unique writers. Each novel is a gem!  (Harnessing Peacocks is my all-time favorite.) This bittersweet fairy tale  concerns the intrepid Juno, who, betrayed by her girlhood heroes (a pair of  beastly cousins off to fight WWII) in the worst way imaginable for a young,  impressionable woman, goes on to survive and prosper, surrounded by love  and affection. A triumph of the human spirit, it's a May-December romance  readers will hold dear to their hearts.	1999-01-06
US	52844379	RZDYK8EMLZBYQ	0449225062	410643216	Snowdrops and Scandalbroth (Regency Romance)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A gentleman has to prove to the ton that he's a rake!	Another funny, sweet Regency romance from one of the top authors in this popular genre. Our hero -- a virgin!-- has to prove to the haut monde that he's as much a rake as the best of them. To this end, he secures the help  of a gently-bred maiden down on her luck (her impoverished father has died,  and her closest relatives have disowned her). Love, of course, blossoms, in  the midst of a number of extremely funny sub-plots and the usual hilarious  cast of Metzger characters, including fumbling felons, over-eager Bow  Street Runners, and heartless aristocrats.	1998-12-21
US	52844379	RPIAJI5X6ISIC	0880015772	161752189	The Villa Marini: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Moody, atmospheric story of sugar cane planters in Australia	A tragic story steeped in the steamy atmosphere of Australian sugar cane plantations. An exotic take on an exotic time and place, 19th-century northern Australia, newly-peopled with European immigrants. Here, the  Graus, who are Spanish, mingle with the Irish and the aborigines, making  for some fascinating cultural encounters. Slightly reminiscent of Durrell's  Alexandria Quartet. A recommended read!	1998-12-21
US	52844379	R1GCTBMNAVOGA5	0380766558	915756963	The Elusive Flame	Books	1	1	1	N	N	Flame and the Flower Redux	Unimaginative retelling of The Flame and the Flower holds no surprises. This is very much a reprise! Further, the plot is silly, hard to believe and the characters one-dimensional. (How bad, bad, bad can villains be?)    Woodiwiss's romance style is 20 years out of date; readers expect something  more challenging and more mature. This is a throwback to an unlamented era.  Her fans will probably eat it up, however!	1998-12-15
US	52844379	R1Z3OYQF5TVFHA	0373760329	621214294	Sex Test (Women To Watch)	Books	1	2	3	N	N	Mistaken identity leads to romance between prof and mechanic	Salier's first romance effort falls far short of the standard in the industry. Lackluster plot (psychology professor interviews men on their sexual habits and falls in love with one of her subjects, an auto mechanic  masquerading as a multi-millionaire)is further hampered by one-dimensional  characters and excruciating dialogue (&quot;Obviously, I have called at an  off-color moment.&quot;) The narrative reads like a spoof of a very bad  romance novel...but it's not a spoof. The Sex Test--alas!--is for real!  [Deserves NO stars!]	1998-12-09
US	52844379	RM9BLZE7AXKLP	0515123676	820561988	Irresistible	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Friendship turns to passion turns to love!	Nobody does yearning better than the marvelous Mary Balogh. Irresistible is truly irresistible, a delicious love story that will keep the reader turning pages into the wee hours of the night. (I was up until 3 a.m.)  Widowed Sophie Armitage is being blackmailed by a thorough cad who would  ruin her late hero husband's memory (he died saving the lives of Wellington  and several of his officers)and seriously injure her family's standing in  society.When she was following the drum in Spain,  sophie and her husband  were friendly with four popular noblemen known as the 4 Horsemen of the  Apocalypse, officers she never forgot---particularly one of them,the  handsomest in her eyes, and the kindest, Nathaniel Gascoigne. Sophie runs  into them again just as the blackmailer is about to drive her into deep  debt. Her pride, however, forestalls asking for help, and not until she has  become intimately involved with Nat is the story of her predicament  revealed. Added to Sophie's distress is the emotional toll her love affair  with Nat is taking; lacking in self-esteem, she cannot believe he really  cares. Recommended for all readers who prefer live, breathing, REAL  characters rather than the 1-dimensional clones found too often in the  genre.	1998-11-29
US	52844379	R1Y2BUB4BKZDQC	0449225097	679753533	Primrose Path	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Hilarious Regency Romp By One Of The Genre's Best!	How could a publisher with any business -- or otherwise! -- sense allow  any book of Barbara Metzger's to go out of print? She is one of the Regency  genre's best writers, and one of the wittiest authors in any genre. One of  the reviews here cited saw this as a movie, and I heartily concur---the  situations and slapstick in The Primrose Path are positively hilarious.  Viscount Knowle (aka Knolly) finds himself up to his champagne-polished  Hessian boots in dogs, long-lost sisters, French spies, ex-mistresses,  languishing possible fiancees, and others, when he tangles with the  formidable Angelina Armistead, his late aunt's companion. Knowle has to  remove Angelina from Primrose Cottage in order to house a fleeing French  spy, but Lena aka Angel has been mandated by the late aunt's will to  provide a home for her numerous dogs. A clash of wills and personalities  becomes a charming love story. Knowle is a marvelous hero, even as he fends  off the monstrous Ajax and the problematic Puddles, and tries to keep  upwind of old Windy. A smart BBC producer would do well to snap this up.  But do BBC producers (or any producers at all) read Regency romances????  Well, they should!	1998-08-30
US	52844379	R33AHMA3OGLEG0	1568954298	809706185	Three to Get Deadly (Stephanie Plum, No. 3)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Hot new star on the mystery horizon does it again!	Janet Evanovich used to write romances...and hasn't forgotten how to use sexual tension in her switchover to mystery writing. Stephanie Plum, who turned to bounty hunting when she lost her day job, is, as one character puts it, possibly the world's worst skip tracer, a danger to herself and others. Despite that, she always gets her man, as her high-school nemesis/sometime lover Joe Morelli, now a vice cop, shakes his handsome head in disbelief. Stephanie operates out of the Trenton nabe called &quot;the burg&quot;, her home turf, and her many family members, old school pals, and the burg's locals are valuable contacts as she hunts down the latest individual who's dared to jump bail in the county. So funny, and so hopping-full of such outrageous characters, that you may almost forget how well-plotted these stories (this is the third in the series] are as you turn the pages furiously. And, always, there's the same tantalizing question: will Stephanie and Joe finally do &quot;it&quot; this time? The suspense will kill you! Oh, in this one, a candy-store owner sweeter than what he sells turns out to be a whole lot more complex than anyone in the burg has ever imagined. And Stephanie just asks for trouble the minute she takes the case---how dare she go after Uncle Mo, Santa Claus, St. Francis, and The Easter Bunny combined, all in one perfect human being? Jo Manning (drmwk@juno.com	1997-07-22
US	52844379	R1CKYUAWWD3E3R	0449000176	263102702	One Perfect Rose	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Historical romance with New Age sensibility	Mary Jo Putney never disappoints. Her latest combines romance, mystery, New Age concepts, and a rousing story of a troupe of travelling actors who meet up with a desperate nobleman who's running away from a sentence of death. Truly uplifting, with a strong spiritual tone. A tour de force from the pen of one of America's most popular, bestselling writers of historical romance.  Jo Manning (drmwk@juno.com	1997-07-17
US	52844379	R3DHT6X51S2CPQ	0780801695	115868704	Web Site Source Book 1997: A Guide to Major U.S. Businesses, Organizations, Agencies, Institutions, and Other Information Resources on the World Wide Web (2nd ed. Issn 1089-4861)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Best web site source guide available	Second edition of this Omnigraphics publication contains almost 13,000 individual web site listings. Full and accurate information onf bona fide organizations with a presence on, and/or doing business on the World Wide Web, including (where possible) full telephone and fax and contact numbers, toll-free numbers, and snail-mailing addresses. All Fortune 500 companies are listed---whether they have a web site or not---and users will find all types of businesses, associations, societies, government agencies (federal, state, regional, city, county, local), educational institutions, embassies, consulates, UN missions and agencies, research centers, and media...among other listings. Organized alphabetically and also by subject classification. A &quot;must&quot; source for anyone doing business---or desiring to do business---on the World Wide Web, researchers, writers, educators, and students. Highly recommended for accuracy, thoroughness, and scope. Jo Manning (drmwk@juno.com	1997-07-15
US	52844379	R3UQMELZE8J5XR	1571210008	221920647	Prairie Princess and the Sanskritologist	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Prairie Princess Meets Mr. Right After Marrying Mr. Wrong	A naive American college student marries the wrong man---attracted by Sanskrit, the ancient Indian language he studies---and journeys to India, where she finds the right man, another Sanskritologist. Unfortunately, the natives are revolting, bullets are flying, and what is she going to do about George, her despised husband, when it's Alan she really wants? Set in the exotic, fabled vale of Kashmir during the riots that followed the execution by hanging of ex-premier Bhutto in Pakistan in the late 1970s, this first-person narrative may remind you of Daphne DuMaurier's classic love story, Rebecca....and then again, it might not! Nick Manning (drmwk@juno.com	1997-07-14
US	52844379	R2F5UI1QJR37WI	0425158624	151274310	Silent Melody	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Deaf-mute finds love and happiness	Remember Jane Wyman in her Oscar-winning performance in JOHNNY BELINDA? Mary Balogh's vulnerable heroine, a deaf-mute, finds herself in a similar predicament---she's been terrorized by a black-hearted villain but doesn't have the words to say who he is and what he has done. The one man who can help her---the first and only love of her life---is locked up in a bitter world of his own making, to which he doesn't have the key. Superb Georgian romance with all of the signature Balogh touches---emotional, passionate, tender---and a rousing story with more than a bit of mystery. Highly recommended. Jo Manning (drmwk@juno.com	1997-07-14
US	52844379	R1VPDXIHB63D75	0553562967	96085944	Bellwether	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Chaos Theory Meets Dilbert!	The scientist-heroine of Connie Willis's superb take on research institutions, management bungling, and chaos theory is pursuing a bunch of seemingly-unrelated historical links, looking for something common to them all. What she finds is  delightful, funny, clever, and  quintessentially Connie Willis. Bellwether, like all of the author's work, transcends genre and goes for the jugular: simply, a very good, unforgettable read. Willis is unique, like no other, and should not be buried in the science-fiction section of bookstores. In the best of bookstores (in the best of all possible worlds, as one philospher once said... ), she would be hand-sold by booksellers who read and love books. Jo Manning (drmwk@juno.com	1997-07-13
US	52844379	R13NDWLRDNADUO	0553562738	466136665	Doomsday Book	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Time-travel is not always what it's cracked up to be!	The heroine of Connie Willis's award-winning Doomsday Book is a grad student in history at an English university in the near future. She's gotten approval to go back in time to the 12th century to do on-site research. Armed with her implanted language decoders and her anti-plague shots, she's sent back by an operator who is coming down with a contemporary plague and makes a mistake, putting her smack-dab in the middle of an area soon to be over-run by disease. As she struggles to get back to her own time, her mentor struggles to get her back as well, but bodies are piling up---all over time. A gripping, emotional read that transcends the barriers of genre fiction. Science-fiction is the category that's been assigned to this title, but it is so much more...mystery, romance, historical fiction... A terrific read that will stay with you. You know the cliche, &quot;I couldn't put this book down!&quot; Here, it's true---I hated coming to the end, I loved all the characters so.  Jo Manning (drmwk@juno.com	1997-07-13
