US	52841535	R57FTO3F0XDOS	1591201411	577277607	Nutrient Timing: The Future of Sports Nutrition	Books	4	165	179	N	N	Great information that needs a more user-friendly format	The authors of this book are prestigious scientists who convincingly make their core point that it is crucial to carefully time the intake of particular types of sports drinks during and after exercise in order to build muscles. The book has a table of contents, extensive bibliography, index, and provides charts for determining one's daily calorie needs as well as sample meal plans for the recommended diet. After carefully studying the book, I wanted to instantly put the authors' ideas into action. Unfortunately, that was very hard to do because the book is not particularly user-friendly: (1) Because the book is aimed at weight lifters, one has to read the authors' other book, The Performance Zone, to find out that their sport-drink recommendations apply to all types of exercise. (2) The book is written like a college textbook rather than a how-to for the general public. (3) The authors don't provide either a list of sources for their sports drinks or do-it-yourself recipes. (4) The math is confusing in the important charts on pages 96-104. They give 3 examples, a 200-lb male who works out an unspecified amount of time once/day who needs 3800 calories/day; a 200-lb male who works out an unspecified amount twice/day who needs 4200 calories/day; a 130-lb-female who works out an unspecified amount once/day who needs 2340 calories/day. All 3 are instructed to drink the same amount of the 3 sports drinks, regardless of muscle mass or length of workout, and only the first male is instructed to take the muscle-growth drink before bed. I believe a 130-lb woman would, logically, require only about HALF of the drinks the 200-lb guys would need, and I can't figure out why everyone wouldn't need the bedtime protein drink. For more detailed info on titrating your dosage, you'll need to go to the authors' other book.<br /><br />Based on the information in the book, I laboriously created recipes for the drinks and am offering them here to save others the trouble. Note that the authors believe any simple sugar works well for the drink =except= fructose (fruit juice) because it can cause stomach upset in some people. Since I don't have this problem, I use fruit juice in my recipes but have provided the sugar equivalent for those who do. If you use sugar, I recommend that, to improve the taste, you flavor the drink with 1 tablespoon (T) lemon juice, which has only 1 gram (G) carbohydrate (C) per T. The drinks are made in a blender or shaker.<br /><br />Energy Drink (6P, 24C): Combine fruit juice with water for a total of 16 oz (juice options: 7 oz pear juice OR 7 oz orange juice OR 6 oz pineapple juice). If sugar is preferred, instead of juice use: 2T sugar & 1T lemon juice in 16 oz water. Add 5 teaspoon (t) whey protein powder (calculated using Designer Whey Protein natural flavor, 19P, 2C per 1/3 cup). Add a few grains of potassium chloride (e.g. Nu-Salt salt substitute) & a few grains of table salt. Add 1/8t of Vitamin C crystals, a few drops of Vitamin E oil, 1G leucine powder, and the contents of a broken-open, gelatin capsule of magnesium powder (all from healthfood store). Blend well. Note: add enough water to this mixture so that you can drink 2 oz 10 minutes before you begin and every 20 minutes thereafter, ending with the final dose 20 minutes before you finish the workout--for a 2-hr workout, that would be 6 2-oz doses, or at least 12 ounces. The book recommends drinking plenty of water, as well.<br /><br />Anabolic Drink (15P, 45C): 16 oz water plus juice (e.g., 13 oz orange juice OR 13 oz pear juice OR 11 oz pineapple juice). Sugar alternative: 4 T sugar & 1 T lemon juice in 16 oz water. Add 4 T whey protein powder, 2G leucine powder, 2G glutamine powder (healthfood store), pinch Vit. C crystals, few drops Vit. E oil. Drink the whole thing right after your workout--or within 45 minutes at the latest.<br /><br />Growth Drink (20P, 4C): 2/3 cup water, 1/3 cup fat-free milk (provides 4C & 3P--2G of the P is casein & 1G whey), 3G leucine powder, 1G glutamine powder, 13G whey protein powder (3T & scant 4th T), 1/4t sugar. Note: some may be horrified that I provide the 2G of casein required for this drink from plain, nonfat milk instead of fancy casein protein powder. By all means use that if you have it on hand, simply substituting 2G of casein powder for the milk and adding a tad more whey protein and water to your batch. Drink the whole thing 2-4 hours after the workout and make another batch to drink at bedtime., 13G whey protein powder (3T & scant 4th T), 1/4t sugar. Note: some may be horrified that I provide the 2G of casein required for this drink from plain, nonfat milk instead of fancy casein protein powder. By all means use that if you have it on hand, simply substituting 2G of casein powder for the milk and adding a tad more whey protein and water to your batch. Drink the whole thing 2-4 hours after the workout and make another batch to drink at bedtime.	2005-01-16
US	52841535	R6S1K2BPEV0TL	0060732067	646046789	Much Ado About You (Essex Sisters, book 1)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Sisters falling in love	I'm a huge fan of romantic comedy, and this book is one of the best I've ever read. The basic plot sounds simple, but James's execution is magical: Four sisters, aged 24, 22, 20 and 15, are orphaned when their father, a horse-mad Scottish lord, is flung from one of his horses. Tess, the eldest, has been mother as well as sister to her siblings since their mother died when the youngest was a baby. Tess is greatly worried when she discovers their feckless father has left them to the guardianship of a British duke none of them has ever met. But though 35-year-old Rafe, the Duke of Holbrook, drinks far too much, he is extremely kind, treating the sisters like family. It is obvious to Tess and her two sisters next in line, Annabel and Imogen, that they must marry since they have no money to support themselves and they don't want to take advantage of the duke. But since the only dowry their father left them is one race horse each that cannot be sold, they are afraid only undesirable men as horse-mad as their father will be likely to seek their hands. Fortunately, the sisters are all beautiful, and the duke decides he will have little trouble finding them husbands. In fact, one of his two thirty-something best friends, the Earl of Mayne, immediately volunteers to marry Tess in pursuit of a comfortable marriage of convenience. The only thing standing in the way is the duke's other best friend, the fabulously wealthy and extremely enigmatic Lucius Felton. Before meeting Tess, Lucius had no plans to marry, and he is dismayed to find himself far more interested in Tess than any man who cares about either comfort or convenience ought to be.<br /><br />The heroine and hero, Tess and Lucius, are a great match. They are both intelligent, with a sense of humor, bone-deep integrity, and an enormous capacity for love and loyalty. Because of internal wounds they each bear, the vulnerability they experience as their relationship develops makes the love scenes not only very sexy (and they are hot!) but extremely touching. There are multiple subcharacters, every one of them adding an important element to the book, but the major ones, the tipsy duke, Rafe, and Tess's sisters, are particularly well done. Tess's relationship with each character is important to her story, and the main subplot of her sister Imogen's desperate love for an engaged man contrasts with Tess's relationship with Lucius in a particularly powerful way. I am looking forward with great anticipation to the upcoming three books about the other sisters. I'm especially hoping Rafe will recover from his alcoholism and become a worthy mate for one of the three sisters, because he's simply adorable.they are hot!) but extremely touching. There are multiple subcharacters, every one of them adding an important element to the book, but the major ones, the tipsy duke, Rafe, and Tess's sisters, are particularly well done. Tess's relationship with each character is important to her story, and the main subplot of her sister Imogen's desperate love for an engaged man contrasts with Tess's relationship with Lucius in a particularly powerful way. I am looking forward with great anticipation to the upcoming three books about the other sisters. I'm especially hoping Rafe will recover from his alcoholism and become a worthy mate for one of the three sisters, because he's simply adorable.	2005-01-14
US	52841535	R3ON7B73O2P75Q	0764525549	833287413	Writing a Romance Novel For Dummies	Books	5	109	111	N	Y	Outstanding how-to book on writing a romance novel	In my experience of Dummies books in general, they all fulfill beautifully a major requirement of the self-help genre: clarity. In specific, Writing a Romance Novel (WRN), as do all Dummies books, offers an outstanding table of contents, an extensive index, and an accessible layout that allows you to skip from topic to topic if you don't choose to read the book cover to cover. One thing that is unique in each Dummies book, though, is what it contains, and I can sum up the quality of this book's content in one word: superb!<br /><br />I shamelessly confess that my shelves contain every book ever written on how to write romance, along with 50 or 60 books on writing popular fiction in general. Add to that dozens of other fiction how-to's I've read which did not merit \\"keeper\\" status, and if I haven't read everything ever written on how-to-write fiction, I'm pretty close. Based on all that reading, I would rank this book in the how-to-write-fiction genre at least in the top 5. And in the sub-category of how-to-write romance, I would rank it Number 1--that's how good it is.<br /><br />Author, Leslie Wainger, knows whereof she speaks on the subject of what makes a quality romance novel: she's been editing romances professionally for 25 years, in the process working up from editorial assistant at Silhouette books to executive editor for Harlequin/Silhouette. Based on all that experience, she's provides in WRN exhaustive information on the qualities editors seek in publishable romance novels. There is something here for romance writers at every stage of their career, from raw recruits who've may not even be sure what constitutes a romance novel, to disciplined, experienced writers who've been plugging away for years and are close to selling their first romance novel. Many of the topics in WRN are essentials in any how-to book on fiction of any genre: characters, plotting, setting, research, and marketing your completed book. However, Ms. Wainger's take on each of these topics adds information specific to the romance novel in the form of practical, clear insights that are simultaneously down-to-earth and quite sophisticated. My particular favorites among the various sections of the book are Chapter 8 on author voice and Chapter 9 on unique character voices. These chapters contain the most profound understanding of how the author's voice impacts narrative that I've ever seen. In addition, Ms. Wainger offers extremely useful insights on feeding in research information and physical movements of characters in a way that doesn't slow the story's pacing. Finally, the all-important topic of love scenes in the romance novel is handled with insight and unblushing finesse.<br /><br />In short, if you can afford only one how-to book on romance, make it this one. It's easy to read and packed with essential information on how to write a romance novel that has a very good chance of getting published.cs adds information specific to the romance novel in the form of practical, clear insights that are simultaneously down-to-earth and quite sophisticated. My particular favorites among the various sections of the book are Chapter 8 on author voice and Chapter 9 on unique character voices. These chapters contain the most profound understanding of how the author's voice impacts narrative that I've ever seen. In addition, Ms. Wainger offers extremely useful insights on feeding in research information and physical movements of characters in a way that doesn't slow the story's pacing. Finally, the all-important topic of love scenes in the romance novel is handled with insight and unblushing finesse.<br /><br />In short, if you can afford only one how-to book on romance, make it this one. It's easy to read and packed with essential information on how to write a romance novel that has a very good chance of getting published.	2004-06-29
US	52841535	R210EMC6GZKN1X	1583331638	661217	The Body Restoration Plan: Eliminate Chemical Calories and Repair Your Body's Natural Slimming System	Books	5	61	61	N	N	Toxic environmental chemicals can make you fat	Dr. Paula Baillie-Hamilton is a British medical doctor who also has a doctorate in human metabolism from the University of Oxford. As a Visiting Fellow in Occupational and Environmental Health at Stirling University and an adviser to the Soil Association in England, she is an acknowledged expert on the information covered by this book.<br />Dr Baillie-Hamilton's research has revealed that our bodies' natural weight-regulation system can be severely damaged by toxic chemicals we encounter in our everyday lives in our food, water, air, cosmetics, household products and the packaging of consumer items. These toxins interfere with our metabolic and appetite-regulating systems and make us fat by causing us to store more fat than we would if our bodies weren't invaded by toxins.<br />Since fat is the major place where toxins are stored in our bodies, the doctor offers an eating plan that will take off weight slowly through mild calorie reduction to avoid flooding the bloodstream with poisons that were stored in fat, which can sometimes lead to \\"detoxifying\\" symptoms such as nausea, diarrhea and headaches. In addition, the doctor's eating plan consists of three main factors: (1) Try to eat only organic foods, but if you can't, use the food lists the doctor provides which rate foods by how compromised by pesticides they are and/or prepare your food in a way that removes as many toxic chemicals as possible; (2) drink filtered water; (3) avoid using toxic chemicals in your home (e.g., pesticides, chemical cleaning products, strong perfumes and dyes, smoking), and air out your house to avoid toxic air buildup.<br />One of my favorite parts of the book is an extremely well-done section on common environmental toxins and how they get into our food supply, including: (1) the class of chemicals called organophosphates were initially developed for biochemical warfare and are now used as one of the most common pesticides on fruit and vegetables as well as routinely fed to livestock to fatten them up; (2) carbamates are used as fungicides and pesticides on fruits and vegetables and are also used to fatten up livestock; (3) anti-thyroid drugs are banned in England (she makes no mention of banning in the US) for direct use in livestock to suppress the function of the thyroid so they will get fatter, but similar compounds are still commonly used in the UK and US as pesticides on fruits and vegetables--which people and livestock eat; (4) steroids fatten up livestock by causing water retention and creating a ravenous appetite for carbohydrates--recently banned in Europe, they are still widely used in the US; (5) antibiotics aren't merely given to livestock to wipe out disease, they are also purposely routinely given in minute dosages in order to destroy weight-control hormones and greatly lower metabolism, both of which cause livestock to store excessive fat; (6) organochlorines are extremely toxic pesticides whose most deadly forms (DDT, lindane, PCBs) have been banned in Europe and the US, but they are still almost universally present in animals and humans in North America and Europe for two main reasons: they have not been banned in many countries from which produce is imported into the US and Europe, and animal and human bodies find it almost impossible to throw them off, causing them to persist in fat tissue for decades.<br />This book is clearly written, flows logically from topic to topic, and provides a detailed table of contents, an index, an appendix of toxic chemicals, a glossary, a comprehensive list of references, and a list of referral websites, including the author's. I especially applaud this book's \\"hook,\\" that being environmentally poisoned can make you fat. Hopefully this approach will catch the attention of a large number of the millions of dieters in this country who currently are only wanting to lose weight for vanity's sake, rather than for health reasons. Fortunately for them, if they follow this book's recommendations, theycan kill two birds with one stone, satisfy their mirror and stave off future health problems, too.<br />For those people who aren't just overweight but have health problems as well, particularly an inflammation-based disorder (a tip-off you have this is that your doctor is prescribing anti-inflammatory medication), I highly recommend reading in addition to this book the following: The Inflammation Cure : How to Combat the Hidden Factor Behind Heart Disease, Arthritis, Asthma, Diabetes, & Other Diseases, by William Joel Meggs, et al., and The Inflammation Syndrome, by Jack Challem. They cover a vital issue regarding environmental toxins which Dr. Baillie-Hamilton does not: toxins in food, water, air, etc. not only make you fat, they also create an inflammatory process in the body which can lead to many serious diseases. In addition, obesity itself can become an inflammatory condition--very likely because bodily fat, as Dr. Baillie-Hamilton points out, it is a storehouse for toxic chemicals.<br />Finally, there is one toxic chemical found in our air, water and food (it is yet another fattening agent given to livestock) which neither Baillie-Hamilton, Meggs nor Challem directly discuss: the estrogen-like compounds called xenoestrogens. These toxins also store in body fat and wreak havoc on both female and male endocrine systems--they are linked in females to onset of puberty as early as age nine and breast cancer later in life, shrinking sexual organs and loss of potency in males, and sterility in both sexes. Fortunately, the recommendations of this book will also defend you from xenoestrogens, but if you want further information, and even more protection, I highly recommend any of the several books by Dr. John Lee who has written extensively about using natural progesterone to counteract the damage of xenoestrogens to the body. His books are directed at women, but mention is made in them that men can use natural progesterone, too, to combat xenoestrogens. Dr. Lee's work will also make clear why some women find that when they lose weight they experience distressingly heavy menstrual flow--this can sometimes result due to a too-rapid release into the bloodstream of xenoestrogens previously stored in fat.can kill two birds with one stone, satisfy their mirror and stave off future health problems, too. <br />For those people who aren't just overweight but have health problems as well, particularly an inflammation-based disorder (a tip-off you have this is that your doctor is prescribing anti-inflammatory medication), I highly recommend reading in addition to this book the following: The Inflammation Cure : How to Combat the Hidden Factor Behind Heart Disease, Arthritis, Asthma, Diabetes, & Other Diseases, by William Joel Meggs, et al., and The Inflammation Syndrome, by Jack Challem. They cover a vital issue regarding environmental toxins which Dr. Baillie-Hamilton does not: toxins in food, water, air, etc. not only make you fat, they also create an inflammatory process in the body which can lead to many serious diseases. In addition, obesity itself can become an inflammatory condition--very likely because bodily fat, as Dr. Baillie-Hamilton points out, it is a storehouse for toxic chemicals. <br />Finally, there is one toxic chemical found in our air, water and food (it is yet another fattening agent given to livestock) which neither Baillie-Hamilton, Meggs nor Challem directly discuss: the estrogen-like compounds called xenoestrogens. These toxins also store in body fat and wreak havoc on both female and male endocrine systems--they are linked in females to onset of puberty as early as age nine and breast cancer later in life, shrinking sexual organs and loss of potency in males, and sterility in both sexes. Fortunately, the recommendations of this book will also defend you from xenoestrogens, but if you want further information, and even more protection, I highly recommend any of the several books by Dr. John Lee who has written extensively about using natural progesterone to counteract the damage of xenoestrogens to the body. His books are directed at women, but mention is made in them that men can use natural progesterone, too, to combat xenoestrogens. Dr. Lee'swork will also make clear why some women find that when they lose weight they experience distressingly heavy menstrual flow--this can sometimes result due to a too-rapid release into the bloodstream of xenoestrogens previously stored in fat.	2003-11-13
US	52841535	R3R68JOA13VPLW	0471202711	568281107	The Inflammation Syndrome: Your Nutrition Plan for Great Health, Weight Loss, and Pain-Free Living	Books	5	209	215	N	N	Great explanation of the underlying cause of most disease	Jack Challem writes articles on health for both the general public and scientific publications. He is also co-author of the book Syndrome X.<br />The Inflammation Syndrome is divided into four parts: an explanation of the connection between inflammation and disease, including causes of inflammation; a 15-step diet plan to prevent and heal inflammation; supplements recommended to combat inflammation; and inflammation and specific diseases. There are multiple quizzes throughout the book on different causes of inflammation to allow you to see all the various ways your lifestyle may be currently promoting, or preventing, inflammation in your body. The book is written in a lively, easy-to-understand style, and the author helpfully provides a detailed table of contents, an index, extensive references, and appendices listing medical tests for inflammation and sources for anti-inflammatory products.<br />I strongly recommend this book to anyone interested in learning more about inflammation. Its straightforward, practical suggestions are not horrendously difficult to implement, and the author includes menu plans and recipes to get you started on his eating plan. I find his quizzes especially useful as a kind of lifestyle self-diagnosis.<br />If you'd like to do additional reading on this subject, another excellent book is The Inflammation Cure: How to Combat the Hidden Factor Behind Heart Disease, Arthritis, Asthma, Diabetes, &amp; Other Diseases, by William Joel Meggs. An outstanding related work is The Body Restoration Plan: Eliminate Chemical Calories and Restore Your Body's Natural Slimming System, by Dr. Paula Baillie-Hamilton. Dr. Baillie-Hamilton doesn't specifically write about inflammation, but provides very valuable insights on the damage done by environmental toxins to the body, which both Meggs and Challem indicate are strongly implicated in causing inflammation.	2003-11-13
US	52841535	R2EL0AY0QII9G4	0071413200	744770356	The Inflammation Cure : How to Combat the Hidden Factor Behind Heart Disease, Arthritis, Asthma, Diabetes, & Other Diseases	Books	5	234	240	N	N	Accessible, informative book on vital subject	Dr. Meggs is professor and chief of the division of toxicology at the Brody School of Medicine at East Carolina University in Greenville, North Carolina. He has been instrumental in the development of the theory of neurogenic switching, which is related to the study of inflammation. As such, he is definitely an expert on the subject of this book.<br />Dr. Meggs states that a growing body of medical research points to the process of inflammation in the body as a primary contributor to (if not an actual cause of) the major killer diseases: heart disease, stroke, diabetes and cancer (in particular, colon, stomach, esophageal, lung, breast and ovarian cancer). Inflammation is also implicated in chronic fatigue, fibromyalgia, obesity and sleep disorders. It plays a major part in the bodily degeneration of aging, especially Alzheimer's and osteoporosis, and it is strongly implicated in the progression of autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, Hashimoto's thyroiditis, asthma, dermatitis, lupus, and scleroderma.<br />Dr. Meggs provides clear, easily understood explanations of what inflammation is, how we get it, and how to avoid it. He also offers an inflammation quiz to allow you to self-screen for inflammation. His writing (and that of his co-author Carol Svec, an award-winning health writer) is accessible throughout the book, and the flow from subject to subject is so smooth, it invites the reader to study every word. In addition, the book contains a detailed table of contents, an index, and 21 pages of references for those who wish to pursue this subject further.<br />I found it extremely helpful that after making an extensive, well-documented case for the ravages of inflammation in the body, Dr. Meggs proceeded to list, in a non-overwhelming fashion, lifestyle changes that anyone can make which will lessen the personal health impact of inflammation. He also includes important information on non-prescription and prescription anti-inflammatory medications.<br />I would strongly recommend this book to anyone interested in learning more about inflammation. It is written in such a straightforward fashion that the lay public will have no trouble understanding it, and the information in it is so crucial and up-to-date, many healthcare professionals could benefit from reading it as well.<br />I was particularly interested in this book on a personal level, because within my immediate and extended family, all of the following diseases indicated by Dr. Meggs to be implicated in inflammation exist (and in some cases, abound): heart disease, stroke, diabetes, various cancers, chronic fatigue, fibromyalgia, obesity, sleep disorders, osteoporosis, rheumatoid arthritis, Hashimoto's thyroiditis, and dermatitis. I plan to immediately implement many of this book's practical suggestions and discuss with my doctor at my upcoming annual physical what it has taught me about inflammation.medications.<br />I would strongly recommend this book to anyone interested in learning more about inflammation. It is written in such a straightforward fashion that the lay public will have no trouble understanding it, and the information in it is so crucial and up-to-date, many healthcare professionals could benefit from reading it as well. <br />I was particularly interested in this book on a personal level, because within my immediate and extended family, all of the following diseases indicated by Dr. Meggs to be implicated in inflammation exist (and in some cases, abound): heart disease, stroke, diabetes, various cancers, chronic fatigue, fibromyalgia, obesity, sleep disorders, osteoporosis, rheumatoid arthritis, Hashimoto's thyroiditis, and dermatitis. I plan to immediately implement many of this book's practical suggestions and discuss with my doctor at my upcoming annual physical what it has taught me about inflammation.	2003-11-01
US	52841535	RS2OYY5XBII45	039332463X	604727263	Prime Mover: A Natural History of Muscle	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Fascinating book on the function of muscles in the body	This book is written in such an engaging and accessible style, it would be an entertaining read for anyone who enjoys reading about science. Because it is written by a university professor and noted scholar with plenty of documentation, it would also be an excellent textbook for biology classes in secondary schools, colleges or even universities. It has 370 pages and includes a table of contents, plenty of illustrations, a list of references, and useful and informative endnotes.<br />The author, Steven Vogel, Ph.D., is a professor of biology at Duke University in Durham, NC. Dr. Vogel has won the Irving and Jean Stone Prize for Science Writing for Public Understanding, and I can understand why. He makes very complicated biological processes clear and understandable to a lay audience. He works in the field of biomechanics and has written many other books besides this one for the lay public on science.<br />I sought out this book due to a personal fascination with the function of muscles in the body as part of a larger research project of mine into chronic health conditions, such as fibromyalgia and entrapped nerves, chronic fatigue syndrome, and the effects of the stress (AKA &quot;fight-flight-freeze&quot; response) on the muscles of the body, which in many cases leads to chronic pain. In the process, I became interested in the function of all muscles throughout the body.<br />I consider this book an outstanding permanent addition to my scientific reference library and recommend it unreservedly for that purpose to anyone interested in this topic. I have also read and reviewed Vogel's book on the circulatory system, Vital Circuits, and highly recommend it as well.<br />Kate McMurry	2003-08-21
US	52841535	R2NC241ZEOIDL7	0195071557	183265627	Vital Circuits: On Pumps, Pipes, and the Workings of Circulatory Systems	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Fascinating, readable book by a brilliant scientist	This 315-page trade paperback has a table of contents, an index, footnotes, a list of references, and a glossary. It is written in such an engaging and accessible style, it is an entertaining read for someone who enjoys reading about science. Because it is written by a noted scholar with plenty of documentation, it would also be an excellent textbook for a physiology or other biology class in secondary schools or for introductory science classes at colleges or universities.<br />The author, Steven Vogel, Ph.D., is a professor of biology at Duke University in Durham, NC. Dr. Vogel has won the Irving and Jean Stone Prize for Science Writing for Public Understanding, and I can understand why. He makes very complicated biological processes clear and understandable to a lay audience. Though this book was written in 1992, it is not outdated since Vogel covers a great deal of information about the structure and mechanics of the human circulatory system (and of all living beings) that has been known to scientists for some time, in some cases for hundreds of years.<br />I sought out this book due to a personal fascination with the function of muscles in the body as part of a larger research project of mine into chronic health conditions, such as fibromyalgia and entrapped nerves, chronic fatigue syndrome, and the effects of the stress (AKA &quot;fight-flight-freeze&quot; response) on the muscles of the body (which in many cases leads to chronic pain). In the process, I became interested in the function all muscles throughout the body, including in the circulatory system, which is the subject of this book. I read this book after reading Vogel's other book dedicated completely to the subject of muscles, Prime Mover: A Natural History of Muscle. (Another great book that I highly recommend.)<br />I consider this book an outstanding permanent addition to my scientific reference library and recommend it unreservedly for that purpose to anyone interested in this topic.<br />Kate McMurrycMurry	2003-08-21
US	52841535	R1RZLOY79UA05T	0373764715	374209973	All In The Game   (Man Of The Month)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A fun, sexy read!	The last person in the world Ty Hale expected to encounter on a desert island was 26-year-old Shannen Cullen. Ty is a 34-year-old head cameraman on a reality game show, and Shannen and her twin sister are finalist contestants. Nine years ago Ty was a third-year law student mutually in love with Shannen, who'd told him she was a 22-year-old grad student. Much to his horror, and fortunately before the relationship had been consummated, he discovered she was an underage high school student of 17. He broke up with her harshly, not wanting to take any chance Shannen would attempt to keep them together, since he didn't believe he could resist her. Later, when she was of age, Ty wanted to look Shannen up. But by then major scandal had rocked his family, sending his father and brother to jail, and he figured she'd want nothing to do with him. Now on the island, they have a second chance at love, except....if they get involved, Shannen will be disqualified from the contest, and Ty will lose his job.<br />As a long-time fan of Barbara Boswell, I've read and enjoyed every book she's ever published. She writes with sympathy and flare about family relationships, and she's particularly fun when she deals with twins and triplets, a favorite theme of hers. Her stories are consistently light-hearted and uplifting, often funny, and always sexy. This book certainly displays each of those wonderful traits. As for the story line of this particular book, even if you don't like reality game shows (I confess, I don't), that won't interfere with enjoying All in the Game. It serves as a quite interesting and often clever backdrop for the hot relationship between the appealing hero and strong, intelligent heroine.<br />Boswell has a sharp, unique author voice; her writing is smooth and polished, avoiding aggravating redundancies, and she doesn't dump in endless backstory at the beginning of her books, as so many other novelists tend to do. Instead, she carefully sprinkles in pertinent information about the protagonists' pasts throughout the course of the story in a way that adds to interest and tension. In addition, I particularly appreciate her use of close, third-person point of view. By that I mean that she only uses the point of view of two people, the hero and heroine, and it is very clear at all times when she's switched point of view. This technique allows the reader to have a much deeper, more intimate relationship with the protagonists. Unfortunately, very few authors of *any* popular genre of fiction seem willing or able to write in close third, choosing instead to employ omniscient as (seemingly) a good excuse for careless head-hopping and frequent, long swatches of tell-don't-show narrative. Taking a vacation from that kind of writing makes it doubly a treat to read a consummate pro like Ms. Boswell.mation about the protagonists' pasts throughout the course of the story in a way that adds to interest and tension. In addition, I particularly appreciate her use of close, third-person point of view. By that I mean that she only uses the point of view of two people, the hero and heroine, and it is very clear at all times when she's switched point of view. This technique allows the reader to have a much deeper, more intimate relationship with the protagonists. Unfortunately, very few authors of *any* popular genre of fiction seem willing or able to write in close third, choosing instead to employ omniscient as (seemingly) a good excuse for careless head-hopping and frequent, long swatches of tell-don't-show narrative. Taking a vacation from that kind of writing makes it doubly a treat to read a consummate pro like Ms. Boswell.	2002-11-19
US	52841535	R2WQ204E5G1G6B	0312983026	236698413	It's a Love Thang	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Cute, sexy, romantic comedy	Ebony MacKenzie has a shot at leaving the rag of a weekly where she works and snagging a full-time staff position at the Cincinnati Examiner if she can secure an exclusive interview with Reuben Renfro, The Ice Cream King. Unfortunately, the assignment involves pursuing the elusive millionaire to his favorite haunt, a nudist colony. At the same time Ebony is pursuing Renfro, reporter Isaiah Malone is also offered a promotion to a full-time staff position at the Cincinnati Examiner if he can lock up an interview with Renfro. He's no more pleased with Renfro's hangout than Ebony. And when these two competitors run into each other at the Shangri-La Naturist Retreat, it becomes harder and harder to keep their sights on Renfro, instead of each other.<br />This book got off to a fast start and kept up a merry pace throughout. The hero and heroine are both very engaging, the romance is passionate, and the story delightfully funny. If you like romantic comedy, you'll be thrilled with this new gem to add to your collection.	2002-10-02
US	52841535	RIFQJOO6M4L9B	1580627927	431202376	Kosher Adultery: Seduce and Sin with Your Spouse	Books	2	83	114	N	N	A prescription for masochism and mayhem	The core premise of this book is that marriages based on love and respect are doomed to failure because these overrated virtues only lead to boredom. Trusting your spouse inevitably means you take him or her for granted. Instead, to keep your marriage alive, you should promote within it \\"tension\\" and \\"raging emotion,\\" in specific, gut-wrenching fear and jealousy leading to a constant state of insecurity.<br />Rabbi Boteach has created a catchy premise that is bound to sell a lot of books by giving a new and intensely titillating spin on marital sex education: a supposed man of God preaching lust and jealousy as a means of accomplishing marital bliss. He spends a great deal of time making his case, propping up his argument with case histories of marital sex encounters the rabbi orchestrated, all of which read like pornography, minus only the gutter slang.<br />Two big questions came up for me as I read this book (I admit to a background in marriage counseling, so I'm more critical of books like this than the average reader): (1) Does the rabbi's advice make people happier? (2) Do lust and jealousy equate to love, as the rabbi claims?<br />The answer to the first question comes within the comments prefacing his XXX-rated case histories, one of the most notable on page 39. In it, a client states that, after using the rabbi's techniques, the passion he feels for his wife surpasses anything he's ever felt for her before, but... (and this is a *huge* \\"but\\"), \\"the pain [is] unrelenting.\\"<br />Regarding the second question, while lust, fear and jealousy certainly aren't boring (boredom being the greatest curse a marriage could endure, according to the rabbi), to claim that these intensely destructive emotions equate to \\"love,\\" is so ludicrous as to be downright scary, since the rabbi's book is likely to be read as gospel by thousands of desperate couples. I'm not sure what dictionary the rabbi is using, but the definition of \\"love\\" in virtually every edition of a standard, English dictionary routinely includes such words such as \\"tenderness,\\" \\"benevolence,\\" \\"warmth,\\" \\"devotion,\\" and \\"unselfish loyalty.\\" None of these concepts figure into the rabbi's view of \\"love,\\" whatsoever. In fact, the rabbi's interpretation reminds me far more of clinical  \\"obsession,\\" a state colorfully described in Tony Morrison's book, Jazz. She describes the feelings of a murderer for his victim as \\"one of those deepdown, spooky loves that made him so sad and happy he shot her just to keep the feeling going.\\"<br />I believe the dynamic the rabbi is promoting in marriage sounds very like that kind of desperate, near-psychotic attachment, because it could potentially lead to violence, up to, and including, murder. If a person in a mentally unstable state (whether temporary or of long standing) were to take the rabbi's advice, and found himself hip deep in the realms of fear and pain this book vehemently promotes as \\"love,\\" he might potentially be triggered to rage so strong, it could lead to violence, with tragic results.<br />I am willing to rate this book 4 stars for readability, but due to 1 star for content, I average the score to only 2 stars overall.d, English dictionary routinely includes such words such as \\"tenderness,\\" \\"benevolence,\\" \\"warmth,\\" \\"devotion,\\" and \\"unselfish loyalty.\\" None of these concepts figure into the rabbi's view of \\"love,\\" whatsoever. In fact, the rabbi's interpretation reminds me far more of clinical  \\"obsession,\\" a state colorfully described in Tony Morrison's book, Jazz. She describes the feelings of a murderer for his victim as \\"one of those deepdown, spooky loves that made him so sad and happy he shot her just to keep the feeling going.\\" <br />I believe the dynamic the rabbi is promoting in marriage sounds very like that kind of desperate, near-psychotic attachment, because it could potentially lead to violence, up to, and including, murder. If a person in a mentally unstable state (whether temporary or of long standing) were to take the rabbi's advice, and found himself hip deep in the realms of fear and pain this book vehemently promotes as \\"love,\\" he might potentially be triggered to rage so strong, it could lead to violence, with tragic results.<br />I am willing to rate this book 4 stars for readability, but due to 1 star for content, I average the score to only 2 stars overall.	2002-10-02
US	52841535	R13N9KMX8XIG8J	0871319322	683653354	Women, Weight and Hormones: A Weight-Loss Plan for Women Over 35	Books	4	57	58	N	N	Fascinating information on the endocrine system	Dr. Vliet is an M.D. and founder and medical director of Her Place: The Women's Center for Health Enhancement and Renewal in Arizona and Texas, a medical practice specializing in comprehensive hormone evaluations for women. She is the author of Screaming to Be Heard: Hormone Connections Women Suspect...and Doctors Still Ignore, an additional book on hormone issues which I own and found valuable when I was researching alternatives to HRT. Dr. Vliet is a clear, easy-to-read writer, and her book is well-laid-out and accessible.<br />The subtitle of this book is &quot;A Weight-Loss Plan for Women Over 35.&quot; In it, the author covers the basics of when and why women gain weight from a hormonal perspective. The doctor does an outstanding job explaining how the female reproductive system is one part of the entire, intricate endocrine system, including the adrenals, the thyroid, and the pancreas. She speaks about these important concepts in clear, layperson's terms making them accessible for readers who want much deeper knowledge of their bodies than the average weight-loss book can provide.<br />The doctor's diet plan is basically the same as that in The Zone by Barry Sears, that is, he says we should eat 30% protein, 40% carbs, 30% fat, and this diet suggests 35% protein, 35% carbs, 30% fat. Interestingly, in Sears' subsequent Soy Zone book, he must have realized that it is a real pain to measure and count grams and ounces of food, and that most people just won't bother with it, because he recommends eye-balling portions. This means that you will basically cover one-third of your plate with soy products, and the other two-thirds with fruits and veggies. Dr. Vliet's method is more complicated than this. She provides meal plans which are supposed to give you an idea of what you will normally eat on her diet. Then, as Weight Watcher's does, she offers &quot;swaps&quot; (exchanges) for the two main food groups in her menu plan, protein and carb. For example, you can swap an apple for a pear in one of her meals. She states that she feels that pretty much all the fat you need will come from your protein foods (that is, be saturated, animal fat).<br />I applaud her recommending a basic plan of at least 1600 calories per day, wisely pointing out that if a woman goes much below that, her metabolism will crawl to a halt. I believe that many women who want a simple approach to menopausal weight gain will find this book useful. For further reading on diets like hers, I suggest Sears' book, the Eades' Protein Power and even Dr. Atkins (it can be done with lots of veggies for your limited carbs).n apple for a pear in one of her meals. She states that she feels that pretty much all the fat you need will come from your protein foods (that is, be saturated, animal fat). <br />I applaud her recommending a basic plan of at least 1600 calories per day, wisely pointing out that if a woman goes much below that, her metabolism will crawl to a halt. I believe that many women who want a simple approach to menopausal weight gain will find this book useful. For further reading on diets like hers, I suggest Sears' book, the Eades' Protein Power and even Dr. Atkins (it can be done with lots of veggies for your limited carbs).	2002-08-24
US	52841535	R1BM4UYZFCQOLU	0028639073	536733945	Complete Idiot's Guide to Simple Living	Books	5	70	73	N	N	Good introduction to the lifestyle of simplicity	Over the past few years, I've purchased many \\"Idiot\\" books, and I find their standard layout (which is present in Simple Living) very helpful when you are grazing for information on an unfamiliar subject. It includes: reference cards in the front of the book which summarize the book's main points, two tables of contents (one short and the other more detailed), a large-type-face index, and an appendix offering additional reading and resources pertinent to the topics of each individual chapter.<br />Judging this book as exactly what it proclaims itself to be, a general introduction to the topic of \\"simple living\\" (defined as, \\"living lightly on the earth\\"), I believe the author does an outstanding job, for the following reasons:<br />(1) She provides a concise but comprehensive history of the concept of living simply, including its many different appearances in the U.S. over the past several centuries. This puts simplicity in a fascinating, long-term, American context.<br />(2) She states that though among those advocating the ideology of, \\"live simply so others may simply live,\\" there is no universally accepted definition of what simple living means, there are many common concepts which have appeared regularly for decades in books and articles on this subject. She does an excellent job of describing the most central issues, including the importance of maintaining a \\"sustainable lifestyle,\\" which does not destroy the environment, and creating a definition of \\"happiness\\" and \\"prosperity\\" for ourselves based on something besides the incessant purchase of consumer goods.<br />(3) She admits the irony that living simply is anything but easy and is often more expensive than maintaining a more \\"normal,\\" mainstream lifestyle. In addition, it can be very unpleasant to be the odd-person out, pursuing an \\"alternative lifestyle,\\" particularly if you have children. Young children and teens are notorious for not wanting to be different from their peers. By covering these issues, she allows persons exploring the possibility of living this way to think ahead about possible pitfalls they might face in order to prepare for them.<br />(4) Finally, the author's style of writing is clear, easy to read, and her voice is lively enough to make this topic very interesting reading for people of all ages, backgrounds and education levels.<br />If you only have time to read one book on this subject, I highly recommend this one as a top choice. It would also be an excellent resource for the friends and family of simple livers who want to better understand their loved ones.llows persons exploring the possibility of living this way to think ahead about possible pitfalls they might face in order to prepare for them. <BR>(4) Finally, the author's style of writing is clear, easy to read, and her voice is lively enough to make this topic very interesting reading for people of all ages, backgrounds and education levels. <br />If you only have time to read one book on this subject, I highly recommend this one as a top choice. It would also be an excellent resource for the friends and family of simple livers who want to better understand their loved ones.	2002-04-06
US	52841535	RX74HHXVCZ0CQ	0070383073	727290825	The Procrastinator's Guide to Success	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Very useful and motivating self-improvement guide	Ms. Lively is a consultant and speaker on the subjects of procrastination, workplace decision-making and clear-thinking skills. She has also written an eBook called Managing Information Overload.<br />What makes this book a standout among procrastination books, in my opinion, is its offering of an alternate reason for being stalled in achieving your goals other than procrastination, which the author defines as knowing what to do but not doing it. That other reason for being blocked is that you are clueless about what to do because you lack adequate information or training. For this insight alone, and the accompanying advice for effectively scaling both these types of walls, this book is well worth reading.<br />Other reasons I gave the book 5 stars include the following:<br />(1) The author has a lively voice and avoids preaching.<br />(2) The book has a clear, readable Table of Contents and an Index, making it easy to look up what especially interests you or to go back over particular points in the book at a later time for further inspiration.<br />(3) While I often get irritated by the &quot;homework&quot; in self-help books, this author is, thankfully, far less cutesy and/or patronizing than most authors in this genre. One caveat: I would recommend that, if you are actually going to give these exercises a try, you get yourself a notebook (either spiral or loose-leaf) to keep your scribblings together. If you just grab up loose pieces of paper as the author suggests, you are going to end up with dozens of messy pieces of paper floating around on your already cluttered desk (procrastinators tend to be very sloppy as well as slow to get going!).<br />(4) This book isn't primarily geared toward teaching you how to make good choices, set goals, and gain useful problem-solving skills. As the author openly admits, there are many other books on the market specifically aimed at those topics. However, since the author asserts that in order to come out of procrastination, it is crucial to first figure out exactly =why= you are procrastinating, she very appropriately covers these important topics in a solid, basic, understandable way.cial to first figure out exactly =why= you are procrastinating, she very appropriately covers these important topics in a solid, basic, understandable way.	2002-04-03
US	52841535	R3M272DQTOCJ44	0195047788	692498583	Down and Out, on the Road: The Homeless in American History	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Impressive scholarly work on homelessness	Dr. Kenneth L. Kusmer teaches history at Temple University, and his scholarly background is very evident in this carefully researched work on the history of homelessness in the U.S. Though there have been examples of 19th- and 20th-century tramps romantically eschewing the world of work (Sherwood Anderson, James Michener, Louis L'Amour, et al.), over the past almost 150 years since the Civil War, most of the homeless did not voluntarily seek out their condition. There have been many waves of economic recession and depression, layoffs and industrial accidents which have predictably swelled the ranks of the homeless across many generations. Dr. Kusmer's book does an outstanding job of describing the different constituencies of the homeless in the U.S. over the years, up to and including the present day, where about a third are now women, half are people of color and many are children.<br />This book is well-documented enough to please the most exacting scholar, but so clearly written as to be very accessible to interested lay persons. There is not a huge body of literature on hoboes, and this book will greatly enhance what is currently out there. It helps to explain how our country which, though it doesn't (presumably) put a ceiling on potential economic and social growth of any given individual, consistently fails to put a floor beneath all its citizens.	2002-01-21
US	52841535	RGHGDWJXCHIFX	0609609777	278169822	Somersize Desserts	Books	5	46	49	N	N	Delicious, sugar-free, low-carb desserts!	Somers' diet plan is very much in keeping with all the various low-carb and sugar-free programs out there such as the Zone, Protein Power, Atkins and Sugarbusters. I myself follow Atkins and very much enjoy sweets, so this dessert cookbook is a happy find for me.<br /><br />The recipes in this book are almost gourmet, calling for fancy, often expensive ingredients and special cooking pans, but the recipes are all relatively simple, without a huge list of ingredients or elaborate preparation requirements, and the results are extremely tasty. Examples of the recipes include: decaf coffee granta, creme brulee, orange souffle, raspberry sorbet, New York-style cheesecake, caramel cheesecake, steamed chocolate pudding. All of the recipes call for Somers' expensive new sweetener, Somersweet, which is sold on her website. However, since her cookbook indicates substitutions for it, you don't have to use it. She doesn't list Splenda as a substitute for Somersweet, but it works well in recipes like pudding, sorbet and cheesecake. (I don't recommend it in cakes and cookies--they get really dry.)<br /><br />In addition to the excellent contents, this 75-page book is gorgeous, with beautiful photos, glossy paper and a lovely layout design. As such, it would make a great gift.	2002-01-08
US	52841535	R2I8ROXCGH8OLA	1563841908	523019361	Elusive Innocence: Survival Guide for the Falsely Accused	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Important legal information	It is horrifying to face the fact that the very real needs for protection of millions of children exposed to actual parental abuse are compromised daily by malicious false accusations of abuse during rancorous divorces. Worse, the lives of the innocent accused are destroyed. Fortunately, for those faced with a harrowing attack of this nature, this book can be a lifeline. The author has personally endured the tragedy of false accusation, spending over $120,000 in legal fees clearing his name and attempting to have his wrongfully removed parental rights reinstated. He has offered this book as a means to prevent others in his position from making the mistakes in their legal defense that he did, due to the ignorance of his attorneys.<br />Tong provides case studies of people who have experienced false accusation and includes information on how social service agencies, law enforcement and the courts treat these types of accusations. Specific advice is given for creating a defense for allegations of child abuse and domestic violence, and information is offered for dealing with false accusations arising out of a spouse with a mental illness, particularly borderline personality disorder. In addition, the author provides an extensive array of appendices, including attorney referrals, internet resources, and defense interrogatories. There is no index, but there is a two-page bibliography for further reading.<br />I have rated this book five stars because it is clearly written with a calm, reasoned tone, the information presented is extensive, detailed, direct, and very practical. For anyone in this situation himself or with a loved one facing false allegations of child abuse, this book is highly recommended.	2002-01-08
US	52841535	RXLMQCB4QD82Z	1886330956	274410812	Resilience: How to Bounce Back When the Going Gets Tough!	Books	5	48	50	N	N	Excellent information on resilience	Frederic Flach, M.D., graduated from Cornell University Medical College where he currently serves as Adjunct Associate Professor of Psychiatry. He is an attending psychiatrist at the Payne Whitney Clinic of New York Hospital and of St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center. He has written numerous books on resilience and the survivor personality, with a particular emphasis on the management of stress throughout one's life.<br />This 234-page book is clearly written and well laid out, with a table of contents, index and bibliography. Dr. Flach starts the book with an introduction explaining the concept of resilience, which he defines as the &quot;psychological and biological strengths required to successfully master change.&quot; In the modern, fragmented, urban world that 95% of us in the U.S. live in today, no topic could be more significant. Dr. Flach has spent years studying how people cope with major catastrophes and terrible hardships, as well as potentially dangerous major turning points in their lives. He has discovered that there are common personality traits of people who are resilient/survivors, including:<br />--creativity<br />--a high ability to tolerate pain, emotional and physical<br />--self-insight<br />--self-respect<br />--self-esteem and the ability to restore it when it is diminished or temporarily lost<br />--a capacity for learning<br />--the ability to make and keep friends<br />--the ability to cooperate and inter-depend on others without being dependent<br />--a vital, evolving perspective on interpreting the events in one's life and giving them meaning<br />--a willingness to utilize crisis and suffering as an opportunity to heal old wounds, discover new ways to approach life and make themselves over<br />--a body able to deal with the physical strains of the stress response<br />--a willingness to &quot;appropriately collapse&quot; in the face of a significant amount of stress and change (take time to experience the extent of the problem on all levels)<br />--an ability to contain within reasonable limits the amount of disruption in their lives due to the stress and change<br />--a desire to directly and practically attempt to reassemble the pieces of their lives after collapsing and containing the disruption<br />--a support network out in the world and a willingness to seek help when they need it, from friends, family or mental health or medical professionals<br />I find Dr. Flach's theoretical framework fascinating, informative and very useful, to wit: that it is a fact of life in nature that the physical world we are all part of is made up of endless cycles of disruption and reintegration. As human beings with physical bodies, living in the physical world, no matter how brilliantly and creatively we have managed to seemingly defy and work against the natural reality, it remains, always, within and around us. Thus we continually face crisis (the end of a cycle in our life, which demands that we change in response to a newly entering, different reality), and stress (the response of the body to any demand made upon it).<br />Dr. Flach provides an clear, easily understandable, compelling discussion of both these issues. I found his remarks on stress an excellent expansion on the huge body of literature on this topic written over the past 30-40 years. And I found extremely profound and useful the way he ties stress and disruption-reintegration together by explaining, very clearly, the concept of homeostasis. This, he states, is the innate drive within all living creatures, including humans, to maintain themselves in states of coherence, that is, to return to the status quo after being disturbed. This self-preserving, adaptive capacity is in all of us, and it is essential that we use it, rather than fighting against it, to maintain physical and mental health.<br />If you were to read only one book on the subject of resilience, this would be a very good choice. It is easy to read, and it makes a logical, concise, clear argument that is consistent throughout. Dr. Flach draws practical, meaningful conclusions, based on his professional experience with thousands of patients and his own professional research, and offers simple, understandable, practical suggestions for ways to survive and grow in the face of the inevitable stress and change we all face constantly.that is consistent throughout. Dr. Flach draws practical, meaningful conclusions, based on his professional experience with thousands of patients and his own professional research, and offers simple, understandable, practical suggestions for ways to survive and grow in the face of the inevitable stress and change we all face constantly.	2002-01-05
US	52841535	R26VIISMYO2BPA	0399522301	688952817	The Survivor Personality: Why Some People Are Stronger, Smarter, and More Skillful at Handling Life's Difficulties...and How You Can Be, Too	Books	5	108	113	N	N	Excellent guide on resilience	This is a wonderfully written book: clear, comprehensive and incredibly insightful. It helps you discover if you are a survivor or not, become one if you are not already, and avoid persecution that sometimes comes your way when you are naturally a survivor personality.  I found that last part a fascinating irony: you might think, as I did before reading this book, that it is a 100% great thing to be a survivor. Unfortunately, people in the lives of survivors often criticize and attack them for the very traits that allow them to survive and prosper. To help survivors deal with this, Siebert provides invaluable information on what he calls, \\"surviving being a survivor.\\" Here is one of my favorites of his many insights on this extremely important issue:<br />He says that resilient people are often mistaken by others, who are not so good at surviving adversity, as being \\"pessimists.\\" A survivor is very talented at anticipating possible problems at work and at home and planning a response to them. (Much like the old saying, \\"Prepare for the worst, and hope for the best.\\") People who hate to look before they leap often accuse survivors of being needlessly fearful, stick-in-the-mud thinkers. Of course, when the inevitable happens, and the ready-or-not-here-I-come types land in trouble, who do they always run to for help digging out of the mess they've failed to anticipate? The survivor, of course.<br />I highly recommend this book to everyone who needs help successfully living through traumas and catastrophes in his/her life (just about all of us!). The stories Siebert tells of survivors, including analysis of what they did to recover from agonizing events and why their approaches worked, are both practical and inspiring.	2002-01-05
US	52841535	R3B622IGSENTYS	0373259522	674306999	Treat Her Right (Men To The Rescue)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Sexy, funny, thoroughly wonderful romance!	Wynn Lane is a six-foot-tall, athletic Amazon, and paramedic Zack Grange has never seen anything like her. In their stocking feet, they look eye-to-eye, and she is almost as strong as he is. In fact, she's constantly challenging him to prove she isn't actually =stronger= than him. This is the boy/girl-next-door story with a real twist!<br />From Zack's first meeting with Wynn, shouting zingers and arguing with her burly brother as she moves in next door to Zack at the crack of dawn, he is in turn irritated, appalled and screamingly attracted to her. But he refuses to get involved with her, because as a young widower, he has a four-year-old daughter to raise, and she has to come first. He is determined that a &quot;feminine&quot; woman is going to be his new wife and mother to his daughter, and in no way does tomboy Wynn fit the bill.<br />Wynn has spent most of her life being &quot;one of the boys,&quot; hanging out with her brother's friends, and she has never, ever responded to a man as she does from the first moment she lays eyes on Zack. Not only is she totally attracted to him sexually, she adores the tender way he takes care of his little girl. Wynn has no defenses against what she feels, and she openly shows Zack her immediate, intense attraction. She is thrilled that he seems strongly drawn to her, too, but the push-pull Zack is giving her is driving her crazy.<br />I am a big fan of Lori Foster--I've read every book she's written since she first burst onto the romance scene a few years ago. And as good as all her books are, I have to say, she's outdone herself with this one! I have never seen characters so vivid and alive. They just leap off the page! Especially Wynn Lane. You just don't run into passionate, whimsical, eccentric heroines like her very often in romance in general, let alone in category romance, and I am delighted that Harlequin is encouraging such innovation! I love the way Wynn always says exactly what she thinks, no matter how &quot;unladylike&quot; it is.<br />Zack is also a very worthy match for her. Though he starts out preaching very macho, sexist ideas about what the &quot;ideal&quot; wife would be, you can tell immediately that he is =not= a real sexist because he never worries about his manhood when he is taking care of his little girl. And this is another terrific thing: you aren't just told why Wynn can't resist Zack's tenderness, you see and feel it in the loving interactions with his daughter.<br />Speaking of Zack's daughter, little Dani is another remarkable character. It is hard to do kids and not have them be sickeningly sweet or predictably naughty, but Foster avoids both these traps with Dani. All the subcharacters, in fact, are super. In particular, Wynn's eccentric parents are a bizarrely comic pair, and her gym-owner brother and his weight-lifting friends are hilarious.<br />Finally, in my listing of everything I like, I come last, and anything but least, to the sexuality in Treat Her Right. Whew! Stunningly passionate and intense, it is hot enough to be in one of Foster's Harlequin Blazes! In short, this book has magnificently achieved the most prized objective of the well-done comic romance--humor that is actually funny paired with deep emotion and searing sex. Who could ask for anything more?like&quot; it is. <br />Zack is also a very worthy match for her. Though he starts out preaching very macho, sexist ideas about what the &quot;ideal&quot; wife would be, you can tell immediately that he is =not= a real sexist because he never worries about his manhood when he is taking care of his little girl. And this is another terrific thing: you aren't just told why Wynn can't resist Zack's tenderness, you see and feel it in the loving interactions with his daughter. <br />Speaking of Zack's daughter, little Dani is another remarkable character. It is hard to do kids and not have them be sickeningly sweet or predictably naughty, but Foster avoids both these traps with Dani. All the subcharacters, in fact, are super. In particular, Wynn's eccentric parents are a bizarrely comic pair, and her gym-owner brother and his weight-lifting friends are hilarious. <br />Finally, in my listing of everything I like, I come last, and anything but least, to the sexuality in Treat Her Right. Whew! Stunningly passionate and intense, it is hot enough to be in one of Foster's Harlequin Blazes! In short, this book has magnificently achieved the most prized objective of the well-done comic romance--humor that is actually funny paired with deep emotion and searing sex. Who could ask for anything more?	2001-12-31
US	52841535	R1JAC29XBZVLJI	0373195524	496435591	Bachelor On The Prowl (Christmas Theme) (Silhouette Romance)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Sprightly, sexy comedy!	If you are a fan of Kasey Michaels, you will be particularly delighted with this humorous sequel to Silhouette Romance #808 Lion on the Prowl. Max Rafferty, the hero of the previous book, is the cousin of Colin Rafferty, the very British hero of this book. Julia Sutherland, the heroine of Lion on the Prowl, is the best friend and business partner of Holly Hollis, the heroine of this book.<br />Holly finds herself totally in charge for the very first time of a huge New York fashion show, because her partner, Julia Sutherland Rafferty, a major fashion designer, insists on staying home with her sick five-month-old son. All is controlled chaos, and Holly is proud of her management, until one of the male models doesn't show up. Holly is desperate. This is a show for bridal gowns with top models, and there is no way one of the &quot;brides&quot; can walk out unescorted by a &quot;groom.&quot; When the gorgeous male model finally shows at the last second, Holly ignores her strong attraction for him and orders him to drop his pants instantly and get into his tuxedo.<br />Colin Rafferty has just flown in from Europe and has stopped by to see the fashion show of his new cousin-in-law, Julia, when he's accosted by a stunning little dynamo asking him to strip. It doesn't occur to Colin to say &quot;no&quot; to a woman who fascinates him and is obviously in distress, and he complies, in the process saving the day for the fashion show of his new relative, Julia.<br />This cute meet sets the stage for a wild romantic ride between two attractive, sympathetic protagonists. There are many funny scenes, and many poignant ones, as well. All of the characters, including the secondary ones, are vivid; the pace is quick, and the emotional depth is great. I found the motivation for Colin's temporary masquerade as a male model well done--quite an accomplishment, since anytime deception is used as a plot device, it can be very tricky to pull off. I also thought Michaels did a very good job with the additional, delicate feat of using the characters, Julia and Max, from the previous book in the series. They very much helped the story, and never upstaged the current hero and heroine. As part of the Silhouette Romance line, this book is, of course, G-rated, with no sexual consummation and only a few heated kisses. But the sexual chemistry is such that it still remains a very exciting romance with lots of sexual tension.with the additional, delicate feat of using the characters, Julia and Max, from the previous book in the series. They very much helped the story, and never upstaged the current hero and heroine. As part of the Silhouette Romance line, this book is, of course, G-rated, with no sexual consummation and only a few heated kisses. But the sexual chemistry is such that it still remains a very exciting romance with lots of sexual tension.	2001-12-30
US	52841535	R12DRHV0TCGR0O	0062507311	273463839	On Women Turning Fifty: Celebrating Mid-Life Discoveries	Books	5	30	31	N	N	Inspirational stories for women over 50	The author of On Women Turning 50, Cathleen Rountree, is an artist, wrier and lecturer specializing in women's issues. Her book is made up of photos of and interviews with 18 women in their 50's and above. Some of these women are famous, some not, but all of them are fascinating.<br />I really enjoyed the portraits in this book because they do not aim at a Vogue-model, fake-beauty effect. Instead, they artistically reveal each woman's character, personality and wisdom. The prose narration is also excellent, because Rountree presents each woman's experience with growing older in her own words. The result is that this book reads like 18 short, interrelated autobiographies.<br />There aren't a lot of good books out there geared at encouraging women over 50 in a sexist society that tells women they are worthless without youth and beauty. Of those I've seen so far, this is the best written and most respectful of older women. As such, I recommend it not just to women over 50, but to the men and younger women in their lives who love them.	2001-12-30
US	52841535	R3FP43CI6Q1KB7	0385484011	556397817	Bitch: In Praise of Difficult Women	Books	2	36	44	N	N	A speed-induced salute to the Beautiful Bitch	Elizabeth Wurtzel is a beautiful, thirty-something journalist from a privileged background (including a B.A. from Harvard in 1986). She has been a music critic for The New Yorker and New York Magazine, and has a regular column in the London Guardian. She is also author of Prozac Nation, an autobiographical narrative of how Prozac helped her out of a downward spiral into depression.<br />In her long, rambling introduction, Wurtzel lays out her basic premise, to wit, that the beautiful &quot;bitch&quot; is a vital feminine role model, an essential expression of feminist rage. Though she admits that extreme examples of the Beautiful Bitch (BB) invariably end up as tragic &quot;sex kittens in the slammer,&quot; or dead, she believes that ideal BB's are &quot;fabulous women of great mischief,&quot; who are excitingly, wickedly dangerous, due to using their beauty shamelessly to enslave men. As such, Delilah from the Bible is Wurtzel's primary BB archetype and rates one of the five sections of the book. The other four sections discuss Amy Fisher, Courtney Love, Hillary Clinton and Nicole Brown Simpson.<br />If you enjoy the sharp, intellectual, stylized writing of New York journalists amped up to a speed-induced extreme, you may greatly enjoy this book for that feature alone. If, on the other hand (as in my case), you find smug, self-satisfied, flashily egocentric voices like Wurtzel's both irritating in their own right and counterproductively overwhelming of the subject matter at hand, Wurtzel's writerly style will not be a plus for you.<br />If, in addition, you don't demand much in terms of substance of opinion pieces, and &quot;witty&quot; cleverness alone is satisfactory for you, you may also enjoy this book on that count. However, if you do appreciate a bit of weight in these sorts of essays, you are out of luck here. (...), all I could ultimately locate as her &quot;point&quot; was the Madison Avenue clich&eacute;, &quot;If you've got it, flaunt it.&quot; (...), since many autobiographical remarks scattered throughout the book indicate she clearly sees herself as the ultimate BB, a sort of tragic female Byron. Tragic because, though every BB has power, for a while, inevitably, if she isn't killed outright, age steals her beauty, her one source of power. And it is fear of this loss, perhaps, that drives Wurtzel to wonder, in passing, if someday, when she's through doing all the &quot;things&quot; she &quot;has to do,&quot; she won't have to fall back on the good girl's dream, building a home and a family. (And, God help her future husband and kids if she does!)<br />Having said all that, I have to admit that there is one redeeming aspect of Bitch--the author's extensive bibliography. Though she may not have much to say worth listening to herself, I have to admit, Wurtzel's read a lot of interesting books.many autobiographical remarks scattered throughout the book indicate she clearly sees herself as the ultimate BB, a sort of tragic female Byron. Tragic because, though every BB has power, for a while, inevitably, if she isn't killed outright, age steals her beauty, her one source of power. And it is fear of this loss, perhaps, that drives Wurtzel to wonder, in passing, if someday, when she's through doing all the &quot;things&quot; she &quot;has to do,&quot; she won't have to fall back on the good girl's dream, building a home and a family. (And, God help her future husband and kids if she does!)<br />Having said all that, I have to admit that there is one redeeming aspect of Bitch--the author's extensive bibliography. Though she may not have much to say worth listening to herself, I have to admit, Wurtzel's read a lot of interesting books.	2001-12-30
US	52841535	R10WRFRNI03MB4	0844669598	390127419	The Mismeasure of Woman	Books	5	30	33	N	N	A classic on women's identity &amp; power	Carol Tavris, Ph.D., is a social psychologist who lectures and writes on many aspects of psychology. Her brilliant book, Anger: the Misunderstood Emotion, is a classic, and this book promises to become one, too.<br />In Mismeasure of Woman, Dr. Tavris carefully exposes the origins and structure of the prevailing habit of virtually all societies, even our so-called &quot;enlightened&quot; one, of describing men--particularly socially powerful men--as the &quot;norm&quot; and derogatorily measuring women in comparison to them. Dr. Tavris's direct, concise, highly readable prose is filled with documented examples showing that the differences between men and women are not primarily biological. Instead, they are created by socially mandated discrepancies in power, resource allocation and life experience.<br />Though many feminists have written about the relegating of women to penis-envying, second-class men, I consider Dr. Tavris one of the most clear and persuasive of those speaking out against this &quot;mismeasure of woman.&quot; In this book, I believe she does a better job of describing the extent of the problem, and is very inspiring in brainstorming possible solutions.	2001-12-29
US	52841535	RJGX5N1REAHKQ	0679744347	245358260	The Right to Privacy	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Essential guide to constitutional protections of privacy	In Chicago, a law dating from 1952 mandated that all women arrested there, no matter how trivial their crime, *must* be strip searched by prison matrons. Not only were most of the matrons brutal in carrying out this law, but male officers routinely secretly watched this degrading, humiliating, unconstitutional action via video camera--effectively turning every Chicago police station into a producer of rape pornography for the prurient delectation of its male staff. Tragically, it was not until the early 1980's that, with the assistance of the ACLU, this law was challenged in court by a handful of the thousands of women it had victimized, resulting in the state appellate court declaring it unconstitutional.<br />This and many other horrifying examples of privacy abuses in this country in the areas of law enforcement, the workplace and the press, among others, are detailed in The Right to Privacy. Alderman and Kennedy present shocking stories of ordinary citizens besieged by privacy violations in a non-sensational, clear and readable style that is highly accessible to ordinary people. At the same time, they give references to the case law pertinent to each situation, making this book useful for legal professionals as well.<br />In the wake of the events of 9/11 and currently pending legislature in Congress aimed at wholesale violations of the Fourth Amendment in the name of &quot;public safety,&quot; a well-written, accurate book on privacy such as this one has become even more relevant than it was when it was written six years ago. I highly recommend it to everyone concerned with human rights--hopefully, every citizen in this country.	2001-12-29
US	52841535	R3P0SMYPAGLG7B	0505524619	824861406	The Great Baby Caper	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A sexy, zany tale	The Great Baby Caper is filled with comedy based in exaggeration, sometimes to the point of the bizarre, as in the case of the initial premise: Courtney Kelly is among the top candidates in line to become president and CEO of the company, Bootle Baby Bower. And she is appalled to hear that her boss, M. Billingham Bootle, is making the final decision about his successor based on all of the distinguished candidates going on an insane scavenger hunt at the company's annual meeting in New Orleans. Her assignment? To scout out the most eligible bachelor in the French Quarter and marry him within 12 hours! Courtney decides this is carrying eccentricity way too far. But it turns out to be even worse than that. What she doesn't know is this is all a convoluted plot of her boss to engineer Courtney's marriage to his grandson.<br />Mark Billingham is willing to participate in an elaborate entertainment for his grandfather's annual company meeting. It all sounds outlandish, but outlandish is his grandfather's middle name, and the game seems harmless enough. Not only that, it will give him a chance, at long last, to meet and spend time with beautiful, dynamic Courtney Kelly, a woman whom he's been infatuated with from afar for over a year after seeing her in a company video.<br />From this point on, the droll plot takes flight, progressing from Courtney's initial encounter with Mark, to her fight with Bootle and Mark when she discovers her boss's deception, her make-up with Mark and successive night of passion leading to an unplanned pregnancy, her ultimate marriage of convenience to Mark, and their gradually coming to terms with meshing together their high-powered careers--and high-powered personalities. Endless humorous imbroglios occur in the midst of these events, including a series of visits by the kids of Courtney's many siblings during sequential cruises by their parents.<br />If you enjoy frenetic comedy with lots of zany subcharacters and crazy complications thrown in one after the other like a juggler tossing a collection of plates, balls and bats in the air as he twirls a beach ball on his nose and a ring around his extended ankle, you will love this story. There is something going on every second, in the classic tradition of screwball comedy. The heroine is very strong, the hero sexy and tender, and their efforts to come together as a couple are moving as well as funny. A very entertaining read.one after the other like a juggler tossing a collection of plates, balls and bats in the air as he twirls a beach ball on his nose and a ring around his extended ankle, you will love this story. There is something going on every second, in the classic tradition of screwball comedy. The heroine is very strong, the hero sexy and tender, and their efforts to come together as a couple are moving as well as funny. A very entertaining read.	2001-12-24
US	52841535	R12T82PHTGFLJO	0373195613	938071312	Marine & The Princess (Silhouette Romance)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Delightful new installment in Men of Honor Series!	Marine Corps Captain Mark Wilder is assigned to guard Princess Vanessa Von Volzemburg while she's traveling incognito in America. He has no desire for what he considers a frivolous assignment, but the princess just happens to be his sister-in-law's best friend, and his commanding officer believes it is in the country's best interest for Mark to protect her since her European nation is an important ally of the U.S.<br />This well-motivated setup works really well for getting this unlikely pair together and keeping them together. They have a long, hard road in order to bring their hearts, and lives, together, and it is a delightful ride getting there with them. As always, wonderful author Cathie Linz offers plenty of deep emotion along with the laughter she provides. Mark is a tough but fair and kind man. Vanessa is a strong, duty-bound woman who is desperate to break free of her family-imposed burdens and spread her wings. They are a great match for each other.<br />This story is a fun addition to the tradition of princess adventures, and, as such, is particularly in the spirit of the 1950's romantic comedy, Roman Holiday, with Audrey Hepburn and Gregory Peck. This, time, though, unlike in that movie, the boy gets the girl and there is, in keeping with modern times, lots more sexual tension! Enjoy!	2001-12-24
US	52841535	R2WG62W8F6IXK1	0373441312	708388832	The Doc's Double Delivery / Down-Home Diva	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Fun double hitter with two sets of comic opposites!	DOC'S DOUBLE DELIVERY<br />By Jaqueline Diamond<br />Thirty-one-year-old Dr. Barry Cantress has just spent two years in the Peace Corps on Prego Prego, a Pacific Island overrun with goats. After far too many years of self-imposed celibacy, he's more than ready to fall in love and settle down. But before he can find just the right woman to be the mother of his future children, he falls into a mad, passionate liaison with a woman who couldn't be more wrong for him.<br />Chelsea Byers is a beautiful bohemian who spends her days as a receptionist in a pediatrician's office and her nights in exotic dance clubs. She has no idea that the tall, handsome, but clearly nave young man she saves from a thief who put knock-out drops in his drink is her new boss. She only knows that she's more attracted to him than any man she's ever met. Chelsea takes him home with her to sleep off the effects of the drugging, but when he recovers somewhat in the middle of the night, they are unable to resist the attraction flaring between them.<br />Regrets come in the morning, and both pull back from the connection, but when Chelsea discovers she is pregnant with twins, Barry insists on doing the right thing--for all the wrong reasons, as far as Chelsea is concerned.<br />This book is very funny, a lot of the humor coming from the author's very sprightly voice. She is also outstanding at making each character very distinctive, clearly showing through her pacing and word choice the stiffness of the uptight hero when in his head, and ditto for the lively quirkiness of the heroine when in her point of view. Barry and Chelsea are a classic pairing of comic opposites reminiscent of Cary Grant and Katherine Hepburn in the 40's screwball comedy, Bringing Up Baby. Though, unlike that squeaky clean movie, this book includes strong emotional connection and hot sex, a delightful plus!<br />DOWN HOME DIVA<br />By Stephanie Doyle<br />Brooklyn-born nail artist, Claudia Bertucci, is on the run from the Mob and forced to hide out at the peaceful Wisconsin dairy farm of former FBI agent, Ross Evans. She'd be bored out of her skull with staid life in the country if it weren't for her constant state of excitement around her incredibly sexy host.<br />The plot setup is believably, and humorously, done in a cute prologue, and from there, the story rolls along briskly and merrily. This is a classic fish-out-of-water comic plot with a pairing of two protagonists who are comic opposites. The heroine is a witty, sassy New Yorker who brings to mind the character, Fran, from the TV comedy, The Nanny. Her piercing observations are very funny to read, especially when contrasted to opinions of the cynical, strong-but-silent hero. Delightfully, the abundant laughs provided by the heroine don't detract at all from the sexual tension, which is immediate, hot and continuous between her and the hero. Some great chuckles come from the subcharacters, as well, a cute bunch of kooks. All in all, Down Home Diva is a wild, wacky ride you won't want to miss.d forced to hide out at the peaceful Wisconsin dairy farm of former FBI agent, Ross Evans. She'd be bored out of her skull with staid life in the country if it weren't for her constant state of excitement around her incredibly sexy host.<br />The plot setup is believably, and humorously, done in a cute prologue, and from there, the story rolls along briskly and merrily. This is a classic fish-out-of-water comic plot with a pairing of two protagonists who are comic opposites. The heroine is a witty, sassy New Yorker who brings to mind the character, Fran, from the TV comedy, The Nanny. Her piercing observations are very funny to read, especially when contrasted to opinions of the cynical, strong-but-silent hero. Delightfully, the abundant laughs provided by the heroine don't detract at all from the sexual tension, which is immediate, hot and continuous between her and the hero. Some great chuckles come from the subcharacters, as well, a cute bunch of kooks. All in all, Down Home Diva is a wild, wacky ride you won't want to miss.	2001-12-24
US	52841535	R1CDL1BXGRQSG0	0553583867	589314413	The Husband Test	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Poignant and humorous medieval romance	Peril, Lord of Whitmore, is desperate for a virtuous bride in order to remove a curse from his newly inherited estate. Where better to find one, he thinks, than at the Brides of Virtue convent? Unfortunately, the abbess won't promise him a wife, rather, she sends along with him an ambitious but bungling novitiate, Eloise of Argent, to test the young earl and decide whether Peril is worthy to be a husband of one of her maidens.<br />From this initial fun premise, the book spins into constant adventure. The path to true love between these two very sympathetic protagonists is anything but smooth as, together, they battle treachery from all sides. Peril must work through his deep guilt at desiring a &quot;nun,&quot; and Eloise must grow to care for Peril enough to consider abandoning her previous plans to become an abbess.<br />In spite of the often slapstick humor of Eloise's many well-intentioned plans-gone-awry, she is a strong, direct, intelligent heroine. For fans of tortured heroes, Peril will amply fill the bill. A powerful warrior forged in the fire of harsh experience, he discovers with Eloise a wealth of tenderness inside him he never knew he had. The emotional intensity and the sexual sparks between these two are incendiary. And as always, Ms. Krahn, a master at portrayal of the medieval era, makes it come so alive on the page, you will feel you are actually there.	2001-12-23
US	52841535	R34V5HTNXQYN9C	0931104351	566945798	Survival Games Personalities Play	Books	4	96	97	N	Y	Profound food for thought	Dr. Delunas has practiced individual and family therapy in California for many years. The ideas contained in her book are rooted within an impressive lineage of psychotherapeutic theory, including: (1) the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI), as explicated by her mentors, Dr. David Keirsey and Dr. Marilyn Bates; (2) Transactional Analysis (TA), the movement begun by Dr. Eric Berne, author of Games People Play, and carried on by Dr. Claude Steiner; (3) cognitive therapists in the school of thought of Alice Miller (Drama of the Gifted Child).<br />The concept of neurotic defense mechanisms rooted in childhood abuse and neglect seems to be one of the few areas of Freudianism that continues to wear well historically, remaining firmly perceived as a useful construct in virtually all sub-specialties of psychotherapy in the U.S. today (rape and general trauma, addictions, grief, anxiety, deviance, violence, identity, childhood emotional and learning disorders, marriage counseling, family systems, etc.). Thus, a book devoted to this topic couched in the combined language of Myers-Briggs (MB), Jung (via MB) and TA is bound to be an exciting find for a great many therapists.<br />Dr. Delunas offers a typology of unconscious &quot;survival games&quot; (neurotic defense mechanisms in action) based in the four MB types: Artisan (SP), Guardian (SJ), Rational (NT) and Idealist (NF). Each of these type-specific games shares distinct qualities: (1) They are destructive and potentially deadly if carried to extremes. (2) They are unconsciously chosen in hopes of improving serious life situations, but, instead, cause new problems worse than those they were supposed to fix. (3) They are based in feelings of worthlessness due to poor adjustment to life trauma, usually severe childhood trauma. (4) They invariably continue until the player is able to master the original traumatic event symbolically in a present relationship by responding this time around in a healthy, functional way (stop compulsively hurting himself or others in the same patterned way, in an unconscious, neurotic attempt to restore the painful past).<br />I believe the MB type most likely to be enthusiastic about Dr. Delunas's ideas is the INTJ, for these reasons:  (1) Observing your clients carefully in order to assess where they fit into MB allows you get to sit back quietly and analyze in a clear, systematic manner. (2) Identifying whether your clients are involved in any of the four survival games, how intensely they apply them and how firmly they are entrenched in them, allows further orderly armchair analysis. (3) Designing interventions, such as guided visualizations, for ending your clients' destructive games allows for additional analysis, with a fun fillip of N creativity thrown in. (4) Approaching your clients (in a standard cognitive-therapy manner) in the role of instructor/parent by assigning &quot;homework&quot; at the end of each session involves actually talking to the client, but it is still pretty safe for the introverted NT, because it allows you to maintain a position of superior, scientific detachment.<br />As an INTJ/INFJ myself, I was, not surprisingly, initially quite attracted to the validation I found in Dr. Delunas's work. I always experience a strong hunger within my INT self to learn as much as possible about my clients (often, unless the client is also an N, far more hunger than the client will ever feel him/herself). So I was understandably comforted at being reassured that a drive for incessant information gathering on the part of a therapist is a wonderful thing. Unfortunately, I find it difficult, based on professional and personal experience, to agree with why Dr. Delunas thinks it is so great: (1) While claiming to dislike the vast majority of Freud's ideas, most cognitive therapists continue wasting enormous amounts of valuable (and very expensive) therapy time digging around in their clients' pasts looking for childhood miseries to explain present neurotic behavior--an approach Dr. Delunas directly and indirectly encourages. I have come to agree with opposing thinkers such as William Glasser, who states that the only practical reason for digging around in a client's past is in order to come up with success stories of when clients managed, without harming themselves or others, to get their basic human needs met. (2) The approach recommended in this book is paternalistic, and, therefore, inevitably, even in cases where the client is a child, patronizing. This is so, because the therapist is doing for clients what they desperately need to learn how to do for themselves: become aware of their actions, think objectively about them, and make better choices for future actions. Unfortunately, when the therapist is the one doing all the thinking and choice-making, as Dr. Delunas recommends, the client is reduced to a docile, obedient child.<br />Having said all that, you might well ask, why am I rating Dr. Delunas with 4 stars when I disagree with her this much? Because her insights on the defense mechanisms of the four basic MB types are brilliant. I rate this portion of the book at 5 stars. However, her paternalistic therapy techniques rate, in my view, only 2 stars. I averaged these two scores to get 3.5, and bumped it to 4 because her thinking on survival games is extremely well written, fascinating and innovative.nt neurotic behavior--an approach Dr. Delunas directly and indirectly encourages. I have come to agree with opposing thinkers such as William Glasser, who states that the only practical reason for digging around in a client's past is in order to come up with success stories of when clients managed, without harming themselves or others, to get their basic human needs met. (2) The approach recommended in this book is paternalistic, and, therefore, inevitably, even in cases where the client is a child, patronizing. This is so, because the therapist is doing for clients what they desperately need to learn how to do for themselves: become aware of their actions, think objectively about them, and make better choices for future actions. Unfortunately, when the therapist is the one doing all the thinking and choice-making, as Dr. Delunas recommends, the client is reduced to a docile, obedient child.<br />Having said all that, you might well ask, why am I rating Dr. Delunas with 4 stars when I disagree with her this much? Because her insights on the defense mechanisms of the four basic MB types are brilliant. I rate this portion of the book at 5 stars. However, her paternalistic therapy techniques rate, in my view, only 2 stars. I averaged these two scores to get 3.5, and bumped it to 4 because her thinking on survival games is extremely well written, fascinating and innovative.	2001-11-29
US	52841535	R2J013WPU6OA74	1879639440	557417538	Bullying Prevention Handbook: A Guide for Principals, Teachers, and Counselors	Books	5	26	27	N	Y	Excellent information on prevention of bullying	This book is the product of the National Educational Service, whose stated goal is to offer resources that have been tested and proven helpful in creating safe environments for young people. In addition to creating safe schools, their areas of expertise include: working in culturally diverse environments, containing crises, anger management, building life skills in young people, handling the threat of youth suicide, and discipline with dignity.<br />The Bullying Prevention Handbook contains a great deal of information, but the style of writing is clear and easy to read. Though there is no index, the table of contents is very clear, and the book is well laid out. The three main topics presented are: the characteristics of a bully, individual and group interventions at home and at school, and a specific anti-bullying education program. The authors provide references, an extensive bibliography, and many appendices containing multiple evaluation checklists and screening forms.<br />Though this book is billed in its subtitle as &quot;a guide for principals, teachers and counselors,&quot; I recommend it highly to parents, as well. It is frequently only through the intervention of concerned, informed parents that excellent violence-prevention programs such as the one outlined in this book are implemented. Preventing violence in the schools is not a simple, overnight process. It requires the commitment and cooperation of the school staff, parents and the community at large.	2001-11-29
US	52841535	RA6V2PTCSTENN	0761511288	487911560	Raising Self-Reliant Children in a Self-Indulgent World: Seven Building Blocks for Developing Capable Young People	Books	5	173	184	N	Y	Time-tested, workable ideas!	I first discovered this book by Dr. Stephen Glenn and Dr. Jane Nelsen just before my son was born in 1988, when my daughter was three. I was very impressed with their ideas and have consistently used them ever since, with excellent results.<br /><br />Glenn & Nelsen state that self-reliance and self-responsibility will never stop being crucial, in any society, at any time in history. But, unfortunately for parents today, we receive very little help from the society at large (especially the public schools) in teaching these values to our children. This means that modern parenting is far more complicated than simply enjoying and loving our children. There are essential attitudes and skills they need to know in order to grow into decent, self-reliant adults which no one is likely to teach them if we don't. But in order to do this, we first need to know what these attitudes and skills are and what techniques work for teaching them, and then apply those techniques regularly by spending frequent one-on-one time with our children.<br /><br />I believe that though many parents will find the ideas in this book inspiring, a big barrier stands in the way of them actually following its advice--they are already strongly established in the convenient, no-thinking-required, typical tradition of parenting in the U.S.: (1) eating dinner together as a family group as many nights a week as possible; (2) nagging the kids daily to clean their rooms, do their homework and chores; (3) going on family outings, such as a fast food place or a movie, several times a month; (4) telling the kids if they complain about bullying from siblings or schoolmates to \\"stop tattling and work it out yourselves;\\" (5) ignoring each other the rest of the time as much as possible.<br /><br />When parents are used to an uncomplicated pattern like this, implementing Glenn & Nelsen's time-consuming  and thought-involving ideas will require a huge lifestyle change, which may be very uncomfortable. Here are some examples of these ideas, which I have found extremely helpful, but are anything but simple or easy to apply: (1) Stay calm. When you get upset at the kids, Glenn & Nelsen suggest getting out your anger and frustration by yelling, privately, at the mirror in the bathroom, and after the worst is over and you are not so upset, only then go talk with your child and discuss what went wrong and what can be done differently next time. (2) Treating children with dignity and respect. Philosophically, many people these days believe it's a good idea to treat all human beings with dignity and respect, but in practice, even people to whom these beliefs are sacred frequently instinctively speak disrespectfully to family members, especially their children. When people hold no such belief, then the odds are it is only an accident of a fleeting good mood that will cause them to speak with respect to their children. (3) Planning ahead. Glenn & Nelsen suggest discussing important situations in the child's life ahead of time and coming up with an agreement that spells out meaningful consequences if the child does not live up to the agreement.<br /><br />Glenn & Nelsen openly admit in this book that positive, assertive (vs. oppressive or permissive) parenting is top-heavy on the work involved when you are first starting it, because it is never easy to learn new habits. However, without this effort, early on and consistently, our children all too often drift away from us over the years, some to the point of becoming almost totally emotionally disconnected during the dangerous teen years. At that point, to start the work of positive, assertive parenting can be a nightmare of endless, painfully frustrating work, with no guaranteed outcome, no matter how hard we try. For this reason, I recommend this book most strongly to people who are expecting their first child, or to parents with small children. These ideas will still work for parents of teenagers, but it is far better to head off futurebad outcomes by preventing them.<br /><br />Update 8/06: I first posted this review 11/01, and my kids are now grown, my son 18 and my daughter 21. I am delighted at how they have turned out, and I am convinced that the valuable parenting skills I learned from this book, and used consistently through their whole childhood, contributed massively to them becoming productive, emotionally healthy, financially independent adults. I see both of them frequently, and we have become very close friends, in large part, in my opinion, due to the mutual respect and emotional intimacy that the parenting skills this book teaches have promoted between us. In my experience, every investment you make following the wisdom of Drs. Glenn and Nelsen pays off a thousandfold in your children's lives--and in the richly rewarding relationship you are able to enjoy with them as adults.em.    Update 8/06: I first posted this review 11/01, and my kids are now grown, my son 18 and my daughter 21. I am delighted at how they have turned out, and I am convinced that the valuable parenting skills I learned from this book, and used consistently through their whole childhood, contributed massively to them becoming productive, emotionally healthy, financially independent adults. I see both of them frequently, and we have become very close friends, in large part, in my opinion, due to the mutual respect and emotional intimacy that the parenting skills this book teaches have promoted between us. In my experience, every investment you make following the wisdom of Drs. Glenn and Nelsen pays off a thousandfold in your children's lives--and in the richly rewarding relationship you are able to enjoy with them as adults.	2001-11-25
US	52841535	REESO1UMGFT02	006095633X	486161622	Getting Together and Staying Together: Solving the Mystery of Marriage	Books	5	47	48	N	N	One of the greatest thinkers of the past 50 years!	William Glasser, a world-renowned psychiatrist currently about 75 years old, originally came strongly into the limelight because of his seminal work in the 1960s, Schools without Failure. This book, and the progressive educational movement which arose from it, has been studied in teacher-training programs around the country for the last 30 years. In the early 1980s, Dr. Glasser developed an additional theory of human relationship for which he is also famous. It was originally called &quot;control theory&quot; and later renamed &quot;choice theory&quot; in the book by that same name from the 1990s. This book, Getting Together and Staying Together (GTST) is in the tradition of Dr. Glasser's choice theory ideas.<br />Of Dr. Glasser's published works, besides GTST, I have so far read the following: Schools without Failure, Control Theory, Choice Theory, The Language of Choice Theory, Reality Therapy in Action, What Is This Thing Called Love?, and Fibromyalgia: Hope from a Completely New Perspective. Based on reading all these books, my opinion is that if you are just discovering Dr. Glasser, GTST is probably the very best of his many works for your initial introduction to choice theory for the following reasons: (1) the book is relatively short; (2) it is easy to read; (3) it goes very concisely and clearly into every aspect of choice theory; (4) the information in it applies to every kind of relationship, not just marriage.<br />I am very impressed with Dr. Glasser's chosen writing style. I have not been privileged to hear Dr. Glasser speak in person, but my guess is that the reason his prose is so extremely accessible is that he writes in the same sensitive, direct, caring voice he uses to train therapists and to counsel his clients. As he so profoundly states in this and many of his other books on choice theory, the foundation of all progress in therapy is the client's trust in the therapist. And trust is based in several important qualities of the therapist, including: simplicity, honesty, directness, empathy and compassion.<br />Another cornerstone of Dr. Glasser's remarkable ideas is the highly unusual belief that the purpose of therapy is to get done with it as quickly and effectively as possible. I have spent many frustrating years observing fellow mental health professionals who believe (because they were trained to, and because it is so very profitable a practice) that it is &quot;simply not possible to begin any meaningful therapy until adequate time has been spent discussing the scope of the client's problem.&quot; Unfortunately for therapy clients, &quot;adequate&quot; is usually defined as a minimum of five, and usually ten, 50-minute sessions of rehashing the client's entire life history billed out at $100-250/hour. In delightful contrast, Dr. Glasser states that from the very first second that he meets a new client, he wants to get the therapy moving toward teaching the client self-reliance based in self-responsibility. In pursuit of this goal, he refuses to waste time mulling over the client's painful past. He believes a therapist's proper focus is what is making the client miserable, right now, and that this is invariably trouble with an important relationship.<br />In short, the overall goal of Dr. Glasser's unique therapy (called &quot;reality therapy&quot;) is to lead his clients to see that they are =not= helpless, hopeless victims of fate. Instead, he assists them in discovering that they have the wherewithal, at all times and places, to examine the current choices they are making, figure out if those choices are causing more pain than they are eliminating, and make new and better choices as needed.<br />I would highly recommend this wonderful book to you if you feel you are having trouble achieving close, intimate, emotional connections with others (either through not having a close relationship at all, or not feeling intimacy with someone who is supposed to be very close to you, such as a spouse). Also, ifyou read this book or any other written by Dr. Glasser and are impressed with his ideas, you can get a referral for a therapist in your area trained at the William Glasser Institute by contacting the institute directly via the internet. (I am not permitted to provide the web site here, but I located it easily for myself by using a search engine.)if you read this book or any other written by Dr. Glasser and are impressed with his ideas, you can get a referral for a therapist in your area trained at the William Glasser Institute by contacting the institute directly via the internet. (I am not permitted to provide the web site here, but I located it easily for myself by using a search engine.)	2001-11-25
US	52841535	RMAPDJ4ZYBF0Q	1575420546	826541542	The Bully Free Classroom: Over 100 Tips and Strategies for Teachers K-8	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Very helpful guide for dealing with school violence	If you are researching the subject of school violence as a teacher or a parent, this book is a good place to start. The author, Allan L. Beane, Ph.D., is a professor in the Department of Special Education at Murray State University in Kentucky. He specializes in developing violence-prevention programs for public schools and teaches workshops on this subject.<br />After so many years of increasing violence in the public schools, most of us need no convincing to believe this is a vital issue that =must= be dealt with. Though this well-laid-out guide is written with the school teacher mostly in mind, I would not just recommend it for teachers. No anti-bullying program can begin in any school without the administration, teachers and parents working together. So it is important, whichever of these categories you fall into, to know what is in this book.<br />In the context of the current books that are out there on this subject, this one is excellent and makes a very useful contribution. However, since there are, sadly, so relatively few books out on this subject, to anyone seriously researching this subject, it is highly recommended that you read not just this book, but all the other books currently available (most of which are for sale here on Amazon).	2001-11-25
US	52841535	R2KDJSW2TD9HFC	0821771159	279634213	Husband Material (Zebra Contemporary Romance)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Adorable hunky hero, running from his romantic fate	When a tall, handsome customer mangles a machine at her copying business, single mom Kelly Sumners is too busy ogling him to be irritated. But five minutes later she's really freaked out when the same man unfixably mangles her car in a parking-lot fender bender.<br />As Riley helps Kelly from her car, a sudden overwhelming premonition convinces him that Kelly is &quot;The One.&quot; But, far from thrilled, the dogged bachelor is determined to avoid his fate at all costs. He begins by showering Kelly with expensive gifts as payback for causing the accident, but Kelly keeps refusing them all. Though it gets harder all the time. Not just because of the costliness of the gifts, but because they are so amazingly appropriate to the needs of her and her children.<br />The book has a strong beginning, and it doesn't let up. Each new encounter between the hero and heroine sets up a zany new adventure as they negotiate Kelly's conflicted feelings about Riley's latest attempts to help her out. The hero and heroine are both well motivated, and their attraction to each other is strong and very believable. The heroine's kids are cute (but not annoyingly so), and the emotional intensity and sexual tension are very high. All in all, a fun sexy read!	2001-11-24
US	52841535	R1LR13PQZSE6VR	1551668394	66225134	Wedding Party	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Wild ensemble comedy	If you enjoy ensemble comedy with a wide cast of characters, you will find a lot to appreciate in this riotous book. Charlene, the 45-year-old heroine, finds a host of obstacles in the way when she attempts a long-avoided walk down the aisle with her boyfriend of five years, including: her mom going off the deep end, her daughter angsting about growing old and ending up alone like her mom, her fianc&eacute; hanging out far too much with the wedding planner, and the her sexy ex husband stepping forward with the craziest behavior of all, a demand for another chance.<br />Robyn Carr keeps a lot of balls in the air with this story, but all the colorful characters and their competing needs add excellently to the frenetic pace which is a main source of the book's humor. The various story lines leap and skitter, ultimately feeding into each other for a strong climax. In addition, the romance with Charlene's ex husband is sexy and adds a lot to the humor as well. I also really appreciated encountering a well-lived-in older heroine for a change.	2001-11-24
US	52841535	R17Y0I9A9A8VYG	0821769901	445457179	To Charm A Knight (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	35	35	N	N	Wild, witty romp of a time travel!	Victoria Desmond's eccentric employer, billionaire Walter Harrington, is a medieval-era fanatic and owner of a crumbling castle. Unfortunately for Victoria, when Walter's wildest dream magically comes true, and he's transported through time to 13th Century England, Victoria is unwillingly dragged with him. Though Victoria has no idea how to survive in the Middle Ages, she is forced to save not only herself but clueless Walter from an evil knight. In spite of her best efforts the outlook is very grim for her and her boss, until Gareth of Avondel arrives on the scene and helps them out.<br />If you like medieval times and the sharp immediacy that time travel provides, this adventure will really get your blood racing. Gareth is sexy, intelligent and determined to have lovely, feisty Victoria for his own. And Victoria is a strong woman who refuses to whine as she accepts that she's going to have to hustle like mad to survive. I love the way the light tone of the story invites you to laugh, but not at the expense of a very pleasing hero and heroine. Instead, the humor comes from the contrast of the comic extremes of a hero and heroine who couldn't be more unalike. Their mutually weird ways constantly startle each other and lead to many hearty chuckles. They are also very hot lovers, always welcome in any romance!<br />In short, if you like laughter, exotic adventure and hot sex, you'll love this book!	2001-11-24
US	52841535	R2ZIB9M204P8A6	1551668157	775861136	About That Man	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Small town adventures full of tenderness and fun!	Daisy Spencer, the repressed 30-year-old daughter of the richest man in Trinity Cove, Virginia, fears that the most important things in life have passed her by--a husband and family. Then she catches a scared, defiant, runaway orphan hot-wiring her car, and it seems like a sign from heaven. Finally someone really needs her, and she is determined to take troubled, young Tommy into her heart and home. Her family vociferously disagrees with her decision, and her brothers track down Tommy's only relative, an uncle. They believe Walker Ames, a tough D.C. cop, is a far better choice for dealing with a juvenile delinquent than their nave sister, and they strongly hope the policeman will take his nephew away quickly, before the boy breaks Daisy's heart. In the beginning, Walker is more than willing to fall in with the plans of Daisy's brothers, but after he meets the woman herself, all bets are off, and nothing will ever be the same for him again.<br />As a Northern Virginia resident, I really enjoyed this lively contemporary romance set in my own back yard. The Virginia small-town life is done accurately and well, and the hero is a very authentic D.C. policeman. In addition, while redemption stories like this one are usually unremittingly grim, this book is refreshingly written in a wonderful, light tone which makes the emotion of the story line even more deeply felt. All of the characters are unique, with distinctive voices, and their strong needs lead to vigorous antagonisms that keep the plot briskly rolling along.<br />I have previously read several of Ms. Woods' short contemporary romances and enjoyed them very much, so it was a real pleasure to be able to bask in one of her longer books and hear, even more happily, that this book is the start of a series. I am eager to get my hands on the next installment!	2001-11-24
US	52841535	RZFNKV2YXFRKY	0821770179	16766813	My Fair Quiggley (Zebra Book)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Fun farce with quirky characters and a sexy couple	Desdemona Quiggley is a free spirit determined to be mistress of her own fate. Together with two close female companions, she forms Lucy Lavender Enterprises. Unfortunately, the business falls into debt, and the ladies are in danger of losing everything they've worked so hard to gain. But Desdemona refuses to give up. In order to keep them all from debtor's prison, she conceives a wild plot to capture a highwayman in order to collect the large reward on his head.<br />Arriving at Yorkshire to visit his aunt, the Marquis of Daxonbury is knocked off his feet by a deadly accurate slingshot wielded by an irrepressible young female who has confused his noble person with a common footpad! Immediately caught in the delightful snare of the most fascinating woman he has ever met, Dax finds himself up to his ears in solving a villainous plot, the plucky Desdemona by his side, every step of the way. And to think Dax assumed his visit to dear old auntie's would be a dead bore!<br />This lively novel is full of wit and charm in the form of clever dialogue, quirky characters with sparkling personalities, and many hilariously outrageous situations. The hero and heroine are a wonderfully balanced match, both of them intelligent, stubborn, and dynamic with a shared sense of the ridiculous. If you like a book with lots of laughs along with warm affection and hot sexuality, you'll really enjoy this treasure!	2001-11-23
US	52841535	R2YER8WMCKOCBK	0743410262	327700345	Educating Caroline (Sonnet Books)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A lady and her love tutor in 1870 England	Lady Caroline Linford and Branden Granville share two big things in common: both of them are engaged, and both their betrotheds are betraying them--with each other. This forms the basis for a humorous partnership to help each other escape from their disastrous alliances. And while that is going on, Caroline asks Branden to throw in some love lessons so this sort of thing will never happen to her again.<br />A simple plot, or so they both thought, but neither bargains on falling in love with each other as they kiss, quarrel and scheme!<br />Caroline and Branden are a lot of fun. They are strong and energetic people, and the premise of love lessons is a very sexy one. The author's dry, witty voice and plenty of clever dialogue add greatly to the humor and readability of the book, making it a very lively, enjoyable read!	2001-11-23
US	52841535	R1ONCNPSXEL82C	0373834683	258103784	Full Bloom / Compromising Positions	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Wit and simmering sex from two romance stars!	This collection is a Harlequin two-for-one book with a re-release of a previously published book by lead author Jayne Ann Krentz and a new book by Vicki Lewis Thompson.<br /><br />The first book in this collection, Full Bloom by Jayne Ann Krentz, was originally published in 1987. If you have never read it, it is one of her better short, contemporary romance novels.<br /><br />Emily Ravenscroft is tired of her rich, domineering parents overseeing her every move. And she is equally tired of the interference of Jacob Stone, the tough, sexy troubleshooter her family has sent after her for years to make sure she stays out of trouble. Jacob has been extremely attracted to Emily since the day he met her, but as far as he's concerned, she is strictly off-limits as the daughter of his employers. Unfortunately for his determined vow, Emily has recently decided she is tired of being dutiful, and fiercely protests when her parents sic Jacob on her once again. She doesn't want Jacob as a watchdog, she wants him for a lover, and this go-round, she's determined to change the status quo.<br /><br />This sprightly book is full of Krentz's trademark, witty sparring between an ultra-masculine, independent hero and a feisty, determined woman. I love the way the two of them battle each other, are equally stubborn and intelligent, and the way all of these elements together make for very hot sex. However, the sex is, thank goodness, also very loving. You can count on Krentz to never dump a hero and heroine into sordid, \\"let me use you for a while\\" sex. Her powerful protagonists are always discriminating lovers with strong ethics of generosity and loyalty.<br /><br />The second book, Compromising Positions by Vicki Lewis Thompson, is a brand-new romance for her lucky fans. Thompson has written a lot of short contemporaries, and she has a strong feel for the requirements of this popular subgenre of romance. She always respects her fans by lovingly crafting her books.<br /><br />Mick Farrell has been in business only one week with a brand-new bodyguard business, and he is desperate to get it off the ground. While waiting around for the phone to ring, his younger sister's best friend, Stacy Radcliffe, shows up. She wants to be his assistant, but Mick has no intention of hiring her. He's always been attracted to the beautiful, lively Stacy, but he has no desire to get romantically involved with a woman who shares every tidbit of her life with his baby sister! Unfortunately, his well-laid plans are thrown into a cocked-hat when a former lover of his shows up needing his professional services. As much as he needs her business, the lady is a tiger, obviously after far more personal attention than money can buy from poor Mick. Suddenly he decides he's going to need a bodyguard of his own to ward off the predatory woman, and Stacy is just what he needs to fill the bill.<br /><br />This story is an excellent pairing with the Krentz book. Like Krentz, Thompson is terrific at getting a story off to a running start. Stacy and Mick collide by page three, begin to strike sparks, and don't stop blazing until the very end. They are a very good match for each other, each attractive, intelligent, ambitious, forthright, more than a little brash, and looking for work they can really sink their teeth into. Of course, work isn't the only thing they want to gnaw on! These two are a combustible combination serving up lots of exciting love scenes.<br /><br />Not all double books are worth the extra cost, but I don't believe you'll be sorry if you give this one a try.has been in business only one week with a brand-new bodyguard business, and he is desperate to get it off the ground. While waiting around for the phone to ring, his younger sister's best friend, Stacy Radcliffe, shows up. She wants to be his assistant, but Mick has no intention of hiring her. He's always been attracted to the beautiful, lively Stacy, but he has no desire to get romantically involved with a woman who shares every tidbit of her life with his baby sister! Unfortunately, his well-laid plans are thrown into a cocked-hat when a former lover of his shows up needing his professional services. As much as he needs her business, the lady is a tiger, obviously after far more personal attention than money can buy from poor Mick. Suddenly he decides he's going to need a bodyguard of his own to ward off the predatory woman, and Stacy is just what he needs to fill the bill.<br /><br />This story is an excellent pairing with the Krentz book. Like Krentz, Thompson is terrific at getting a story off to a running start. Stacy and Mick collide by page three, begin to strike sparks, and don't stop blazing until the very end. They are a very good match for each other, each attractive, intelligent, ambitious, forthright, more than a little brash, and looking for work they can really sink their teeth into. Of course, work isn't the only thing they want to gnaw on! These two are a combustible combination serving up lots of exciting love scenes.<br /><br />Not all double books are worth the extra cost, but I don't believe you'll be sorry if you give this one a try.	2001-11-23
US	52841535	R3FDZSZ47SN094	0451204387	416918581	Regency Christmas Spirits	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Great Christmas collection by five Regency stars!	The Merry Wanderer, by Nancy Butler<br />A mischievous forest spirit spends the holidays inflicting mayhem among mortals...and is unexpectedly enchanted by love.<br />The lovers are enticing; the voice is light and quirky, and the magic is terrific fun. If you like fantasy romance, you will really enjoy this novella.<br />The Wexford Carol, by Emma Jensen<br />A remarkable lady touches the heart of a Scrooge-like hero.<br />This is a sweet and funny update of A Christmas Carol. The writing is smooth and witty. The characters are well-drawn and likeable. The romance is heart-warming.<br />High Spirits, by Edith Layton<br />An stiff-rumped lord is disgruntled to find himself growing far too fond of a lively young lady determined to overindulge during the holidays.<br />Terrific, sexy, sardonic earl with a sense of humor in the tradition of Georgette Heyer. The heroine is strong and amusing.<br />The Christmas Curse, by Barbara Metzger<br />To get out from under a curse, the spirits of a knight and his lady must help a hapless descendent find himself a bride.<br />I am particularly find of matchmaking ghosts, and the memorable pair from the ever-hilarious Ms. Metzger are real winners. The romantic couple are adorable, and Ms. Metzger's frisky authorial voice makes the story spin along.<br />A Gathering of Gifts, by Andrea Pickens<br />When a much indulged young lady and a cynical ex-soldier are thrown together for the holidays, much to the wonder of both, they find love.<br />Ms. Pickens has a very authentic Regency voice, bringing the Regency world very much to life. Her characters are unique and well drawn, and their redemption of each other very moving.	2001-11-14
US	52841535	R2UH4I3V0WZUJ8	0821768816	973400007	Her Leading Man (The Dream Maker)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Funny pairing of liberated female and stuffy male	Christina Mayhew is a silent-screen actress in Hollywood of 1913. Though a very successful leading lady, for her, acting is simply a way to earn the large amount of money she needs to pay for medical school. Martin Tafft is the producer of her latest film and very much her match in intellect, ambition and personal strength.<br />Martin is extremely disappointed to learn that Christina is leaving the industry after this film wraps. He had very much hoped to work on future projects with the beautiful, young actress. She is one of the most talented--and most exciting--women he has ever known.<br />Christina is very attracted to Martin, and when she realizes that his admiration for her is more than simply professional, she determines to proceed as a liberated, independent woman and propose to him that he be her very first affair.<br />Gentlemanly Martin is shocked to his polished shoe tips at Christina's scandalous offer. He is adamantly opposed to sex outside marriage, tells Christina so, and remains stiffly withdrawn from her until an accident injuring the leading man forces Martin to take over his role. Soon Martin and Christina are sharing kisses on the set so heated, it becomes impossible for Martin to resist extending those kisses into his and Christina's private lives.<br />The setting of HER LEADING MAN is fascinating, and so authentically drawn, reading it delightfully transported me to the world of early Hollywood. The liberated heroine and the stiff, moralistic hero are a great pair of comic opposites, and the heroine's outrageous grandmother provides a lot of laughs, too. The love scenes between Martin and Christina are very emotional and very hot--I really love stories where a repressed hero finally lets go to the cauldron of passion inside him, because the heroine is utterly irresistible to him.	2001-11-14
US	52841535	R18VFRZ1YEE0TO	0380818329	716131497	The Wedding Wager	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Exciting, funny battle of the sexes in Regency England	Mary Gates is the village eccentric of Lyford Meadows in England of 1814. She dresses in men's clothing, can outswear any stable hand on her estate, and is convinced no man alive can outmatch her in picking prime horseflesh.<br />Tye Barlow, her equally headstrong neighbor and chief rival is a secret temptation to Mary, but she's never considered marrying him, or any man, until she runs into a terrible bind. Mary outbids Tye for a famous stud she is sure will put her faltering family finances on the road to prosperity, but the only way to pay the exorbitant fee is to marry money. Not wasting a second to implement her scheme, Mary trots off to London's aristocratic Marriage Mart, Tye hot on her heels.<br />At first Tye assumes he's determined to foil her scheme solely to get his hands on the prize stud. But while arguing with Mary as he twirls her around crowded London ballrooms, he soon realizes the one thing he covets more than all the pricey studs in the world is the love of maddening, enticing Mary.<br />The repartee between these strong, obstinate lovers is great, and the author's voice is clear, quirky and very funny. I love an independent, intelligent heroine like Mary, especially when she is matched with a hero like Tye who is clearly her equal and respects her as a worthy opponent, irregardless that she is a woman. I also love a story, which this one is in spades, where the contest of wills and sparks of anger between the protagonists incites desire--the love scenes are very hot!<br />Don't miss this exciting, often hilarious battle of the sexes!	2001-11-14
US	52841535	R216258DFCS0LS	0515131784	985264154	Double Trouble	Books	4	19	21	N	N	An innovative, atypical, humorous romance	Maralys O'Reilly is an internet advice columnist who is a loner with no desire to marry or have kids. Then one day her nice, comfortable, &quot;I am an island&quot; lifestyle is totally disrupted. Her nephews Jimmy and Johnny call and tell her that their mother, Maralys's twin sister Marcia, didn't show up to get them up from swim practice. Not long after, the news gets worse, much worse. After Maralys takes the kids home, she finds a note from her sister declaring she's dumped her husband James and her two sons.<br />James Coxwell is the Number Three criminal attorney in the city, rich, powerful...and on the fast track to oblivion. Not only has his wife dumped him, he's just found out his own father is ousting him from the family firm on behalf of another relative. At age 42, he's all washed up.<br />Maralys has never considered herself the save-anyone type, but the situation of her brother-and-law and nephews is a mess. Before she knows it, she agrees to move in and help out, and there is no telling where the heck this will all end.<br />This book is more women's mainstream fiction than typical romance, in that it is written in first person and it violates a major taboo of romance: the book starts out with the hero not only married, but married to the heroine's sister. However, its ending does fulfill normal expectations of romance readers, so if you are a lover of traditional romance, you can rest assured you will be satisfied with how the story comes out.<br />The plot itself has the sharp, dark-humor tone of two romantic comedy movies I enjoyed a lot, My Best Friend's Wedding and The Truth about Cats and Dogs. The characters are sharply drawn, both protagonists intelligent, strong, and honest, but with the interesting flaws of cynicism in both of them and more than a little despair in James. The two children are also cute and often touching in a believable and enjoyable way.<br />If you are looking for a contemporary romance that is very much out of the ordinary, Double Trouble might be just the ticket for you.dinary, Double Trouble might be just the ticket for you.	2001-11-14
US	52841535	R1EWZ2KGGL6WLI	0373244290	174868417	Wrangling the Redhead (Silhouette Special Edition #1429) (The Calamity Janes #5)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fun new addition to the Calamity Janes series!	After two failed marriages, 28-year-old Lauren Winters feels like a failure, in spite of a red-hot acting career in a string of blockbuster romantic comedies and an Academy Award nomination. Needing to get her head back on straight, she escapes to her birthplace of Winding River, Wyoming, to visit friends and family.<br />Almost the moment Lauren arrives back at her home ranch in Wyoming, she butts heads with arrogant horse wrangler, Wade Owens. Wade didn't grow up with Lauren, and not being a fan of romantic comedies, he has never heard of her as an actress. He just knows she's rich, an interloper in his domain, and assumes she's snooty as sin.<br />Though she finds herself brangling right and left with Wade, Lauren comes away from their sparring sessions more stimulated than upset. What a refreshing change to interact with someone who isn't in awe of her! And as things heat up between her and Wade, Lauren is even more delighted knowing that whatever Wade feels for her, it is for her alone, not for her fame and prestige. But even as she rejoices in  her good fortune, Lauren knows that sooner or later she's going to have to confess to Wade who she really is.<br />This book is an excellent addition to an exciting romance series. There are lots of sparks and sharp repartee between the hero and heroine. The story has plenty of conflict and tension, but (which is something I personally prefer), remains light drama without too much angsting, and with frequent touches of humor. The sexual relationship between Wade and Lauren is highly emotional, which makes it very hot. Also, if you are a fan of stories set on a ranch, you will like the way the ranch in this book is very authentically drawn.	2001-11-14
US	52841535	R1RMY0A4COQ7MF	0373441282	508296640	Mr. Predictable / Too Many Cooks	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Two fun ranch stories!	MR. PREDICTABLE<br />By Carol Finch<br />J. T. Prescott is a workaholic far too set in his ways to suit his sisters, who book him for a two-week stay at Moriah Randell's ranch for stressed-out business executives. J.T. goes along for the ride, with extreme reluctance, when his sisters guilt-trip him into it, but once he's at the ranch, gorgeous Moriah opens him up to possibilities he never dreamed of.<br />This is a really fun book. Stiff J.T. and easy-going Moriah make a great contrast. A lot of the comedy comes from the fish-out-of-water premise of J.T. going from the city to a ranch with some very humorous scenes. Also, the romance is deep, and the love scenes very sexy. A good combination!<br />TOO MANY COOKS<br />Molly O'Keefe<br />Cecelia Brady is a determined social worker from Los Angeles on an important mission to help inner-city kids. She is touring the country to find a good site for a camp for the kids, and she's led by a tip from some friends to Morning Glory Ranch. Neither she nor Ethan Cook, the ranch's handsome owner, suspect they've been set up by Ethan's matchmaking sisters.<br />Another enjoyable ranch story. In this case, both characters are hard-working and a bit stiff, but getting together loosens them both up and brings out the best in them. An important subcharacter is one of the kids Cecelia is trying to help, who is traveling with her and provides many touching scenes. The chemistry between the sexy hero and feisty heroine is very strong, and their conflict both funny and moving. All in all, this is a really enjoyable story!	2001-11-10
US	52841535	R31PN4X3K2BUK0	0380808307	474037079	Just Imagine	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Super rewrite of Phillips' 1984 Risen Glory!	In case you don't have ($) to buy a rare, tattered copy of Phillips' first book from 1984, RISEN GLORY, you're in luck--Kit and Baron are back in this excellent rewrite, and they're better than ever!<br />The Civil War is over for the rest of the country, but not for Kit Weston. She's come to New York City disguised as a boy to get revenge. Baron Cain stands between her and Risen Glory, the South Carolina home she loves. Unfortunately for Kit, Baron isn't just her bitter enemy, he's been appointed her guardian.<br />Kit is an extremely strong heroine, but Baron is more than a match for her. If you love historicals where the heroine is disguised as a boy (I do!), and the hero and heroine are each other's natural antagonists, where the action never stops, the story is fast-paced, and the sexual tension burns, you will really enjoy this book--it has it all!	2001-11-04
US	52841535	R10J58IYIVJIK7	0440172853	44473217	Risen Glory	Books	5	25	27	N	N	Phillips' first solo novel from 1984	The Civil War is over for the rest of the country, but not for Kit Weston. She's come to New York City disguised as a boy to get revenge. Baron Cain stands between her and Risen Glory, the South Carolina home she loves. Unfortunately for Kit, Baron isn't just her bitter enemy, he's been appointed her guardian.<br />Kit is an extremely strong heroine, but Baron is more than a match for her. If you love historicals where the heroine is disguised as a boy (I do!), and the hero and heroine are each other's natural antagonists, where the action never stops, the story is fast-paced, and the sexual tension burns, you will really enjoy this book--it has it all!<br />By the way, in case you don't have (dollar amount) to buy a rare, tattered, 1984 version of this book, you might want to check out JUST IMAGINE, Phillips' September, 2001 revised edition of RISEN GLORY.	2001-11-04
US	52841535	R27BPB144JF7UN	0844200212	726372709	Writing a Romantic Novel: And Getting Published (Teach Yourself)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Very helpful book on writing short, contemporary romance	Though this concise, thorough, 162-page book is written by a British romance writer, it is still very helpful for American writers interested in the mechanics and market for short contemporary romance novels, the area in which the author has specialized.<br />Though her book is not as fleshed out as The Complete Idiot's Guide to Getting Your Romance Published by Julie Beard (a much larger book), Ms. Baker does an excellent job of pointing out the unique aspects of romance compared to other types of fiction. I will not list all the topics covered in this review, since you can click on the Table of Contents, index and browse 24 pages of the book on this web page. I, personally, found her sections on plotting the most useful parts of the book--very helpful!<br />For anyone interested in writing romance, Writing a Romantic Novel is well worth adding to your collection of how-to books.	2001-11-01
US	52841535	R3CKF72PSNI339	1551668637	205704227	A New Attitude	Books	5	41	44	N	N	An unusual and engaging, small-town romantic comedy	When her minister husband deserts her for a floozy, and her adolescent son goes with him, staid Marilee Abernathy is so depressed, she tries to take her own life. Don't let that rather shocking idea dissuade you from reading this wonderful book, though. Marilee clearly is not deadly serious about killing herself, because she uses thin drapery cord slung over a weak, fake-wood ceiling beam in an extremely unsuccessful attempt to hang herself.<br />When her sexy neighbor, Sam Brewer, rushes over in response to Marilee's screams, she is so humiliated at his witnessing the scene of her failed suicide, it sparks a determination in her to launch back into life. Many funny and touching situations ensue with the advent of Marilee's New Attitude: she finds a job in a funeral parlor in her small town of Chickpea, South Carolina, seeks custody of her son, takes in a pregnant teen, and, best of all, finds love with gorgeous Sam, the bad-boy-next-door she longed for in high school, who has matured into a warm, caring man.<br />If you love romances set in a small town with a raft of engaging, colorful characters, you will really enjoy this comedy by a truly talented author.	2001-11-01
US	52841535	R3A7U7MBJ06TJP	0373441274	987088913	Operation Babe-Magnet / Operation Beauty	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Two brothers in a wacky competition	As you probably know, Harlequin Duets consist of two books in one. In this case, the two books are by the same wonderful author, Kristin Gabriel, and they are linked by a strong, common thread. The crazily control-freak uncle of two brothers has decided that he will pick one of them to succeed him in running the family business by this means: each is assigned a weird scenario to act out, and the one who sticks to the script best is the winner. The two competitors begin the contest by parachuting from a plane into the outskirts of the city where the action is to take place--and the stories are off and running!<br />Operation Babe-Magnet<br />From the back cover: &quot;From geek to gorgeous....Dexter D. Kane will do anything to take over the family business--even if it means masquerading as a gigolo! But when publicist Kylie Timberlake offers him a job, Dexter happily jumps into his new role. Kylie desperately needs a man to impersonate Harry Hanover, the reclusive author of numerous sexual self-help books. She wants to make everybody wild about Harry. But Dex would settle for Kylie being wild about him....&quot;<br />Dex and Kylie make quite a pair in this fun Pygmalion story. By the time Kylie makes over Dex into a sensuous Babe-Magnet, he's haunting her wildest dreams more than any man ever has! This is a hot read as well as a fun one!<br />Operation Beauty<br />From the back cover: &quot;He had to get in touch with his feminine side....Sam T. Kane loves women-but he doesn't want to be one! Unfortunately, Sam's mission is to infiltrate Ladybug Lingerie and steal their newest, top-secret bra design. So Sam reluctantly dons a wig and panty hose--and ends up falling for Lauren McBride, his new boss. But how can he convince Lauren he's the man of her dreams--when she considers him 'just one of the girls'?&quot;<br />If you love comedies with men in drag (I don't know about you, but Tootsie and Mrs. Doubtfire are two of my favorite movies!), you'll really have a ball with this book. Really well done!th this book. Really well done!	2001-10-29
US	52841535	R3N9DVK54WY6XD	0505524228	785048359	Stuck With You (Time of Your Life)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	You'll laugh out loud at the love-bug lovers!	Thirty-two-year-old, happily single Paige Hart of Macon, Georgia, is the only lawyer in her huge extended family, including six brothers, two sisters, a retired Army-master-sergeant father, housewife mother, and &quot;way too many aunts, uncles and cousins.&quot; In the eight years since she passed the bar exam, Paige's colorful relatives have foisted endless legal problems on her--almost none of which have anything to do with her actual training as a tax attorney. The latest example is the extremely messy divorce of her cousin Jasmine, whose wealthy, soon-to-be-ex husband is represented by Ross &quot;the Snake&quot; Bennett.<br />As far as Paige is concerned, all divorce attorneys are snakes. And it doesn't sway her opinion a bit that Ross is an extremely smart and handsome snake. But when the sexy, opposing counselor flashes a come-hither grin and matches Paige zinger for well-placed zinger, she succumbs to grudging admiration--and an unsettling rush of exhilaration.<br />Ross has tried hard to ignore the gorgeous looks of honey-blond, cat-eyed Paige since their first meeting, when she strode into his office like an avenging angel and blasted him with her lightning tongue. He can't afford to be distracted in this case. Paige is one sharp cookie, and some of the strongest legal competition he's ever faced.<br />Page and Ross gleefully haggle and brangle, until the morning mobster Boom Boom Carbone sets off an explosion at the courthouse. Though Paige is flung on top of Ross, knocking them both down, their injuries are so minor, they might have gone home with a Band-Aid and an aspirin, if not for the accident--the ambulance transporting them to the ER bangs into a car, and vials slated for the Center for Disease Control splatter their contents in the patient compartment.<br />Paige is horrified when she's forced into two-week quarantine in the same room with The Snake. Even worse than that is the reason for it: they've been exposed to the highly contagious Tibetan Concupiscence Virus (AKA Horny Monk's Disease). Its chief feature is heightened sexual arousal, and she's already feeling an upsurge of symptoms!<br />Ross has never in his life wanted a woman as much as he wants Paige, and he's positive it's not because he's sick. He's never felt better in his life! But if Paige wants to believe they're infected with a love bug, who is he to argue? He can't think of a better plan on earth than ministering to each other in their hour of need.<br />When he kisses her senseless and entices her with promises of slow, sweet lovemaking, Paige is sorely afraid that the fever burning in her can never be put out by anyone but Ross. It is only a matter of time before she finds him impossible to resist, and all hell breaks loose as they seek heaven in each other's arms.<br />This is one of the best comic romances of the year! Jensen's wild tale takes off running from the first page, and never lets up. The dialogue is snappy, the subcharacters wacky, and the sexual chemistry between the hero and heroine as combustible as the mob-boss bomb that hurls them together.<br />Don't miss the fun!Concupiscence Virus (AKA Horny Monk's Disease). Its chief feature is heightened sexual arousal, and she's already feeling an upsurge of symptoms!<br />Ross has never in his life wanted a woman as much as he wants Paige, and he's positive it's not because he's sick. He's never felt better in his life! But if Paige wants to believe they're infected with a love bug, who is he to argue? He can't think of a better plan on earth than ministering to each other in their hour of need. <br />When he kisses her senseless and entices her with promises of slow, sweet lovemaking, Paige is sorely afraid that the fever burning in her can never be put out by anyone but Ross. It is only a matter of time before she finds him impossible to resist, and all hell breaks loose as they seek heaven in each other's arms.<br />This is one of the best comic romances of the year! Jensen's wild tale takes off running from the first page, and never lets up. The dialogue is snappy, the subcharacters wacky, and the sexual chemistry between the hero and heroine as combustible as the mob-boss bomb that hurls them together. <br />Don't miss the fun!	2001-10-28
US	52841535	R32MSC53YO9J9S	0380811804	576093662	Next Stop, Paradise	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Back to the Beach for more fun in Paradise!	Sue Civil-Brown has done it again, taking us back to wacky Paradise Beach, Florida, for a wild ride with fun characters old and new.<br />Derek Peter Todd, known as Derek Diche to his millions of television-viewing fans, has spent years traipsing around the world, first as a news correspondent and now as the host of his own mystery-debunking TV show broadcast from his home in England. While taking a break to visit his aunt, Mary Todd, in Paradise Beach, Derek hears there are Godzilla-sized footprints on the beach and rushes to the scene to capture the story.<br />Police Officer Samantha Bartlett is anything but pleased when the townspeople of Paradise Beach appoint her as their liaison with a burned-out, British reporter, even if he is the nephew of her good friend, Mary. But she's stuck with their increasingly irritating--and exciting--connection, when a giant egg is found on the shore the day after the Godzilla prints, and Derek calls in a camera crew.<br />In the midst of alien abductions, FBI shenanigans, and matchmaking plots by Derek's aunt, Sam and Derek are constantly thrown together, discovering in the process the most fantastic mystery of all--the unpredictable magic of love.<br />Highly recommended for those who enjoy a rollicking read! The crazy characters and nutty events will have you in stitches.	2001-10-26
US	52841535	R25GXPLNSOD9FF	0804119686	563168274	I Got You, Babe	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Action, adventure, passion and FUN!	Twenty-five-year-old Renee Esterhaus doesn't have a chance. The offspring of an uncaring, alcoholic mother, she has a juvenile record in her hometown of Tolosa, Texas, and is positive she'll serve time for an armed robbery she didn't commit. Someone has framed her, stashing a gun and stolen goods in her car, and the cops and her court-appointed attorney are convinced she's guilty as sin. Renee panics and jumps bail, but her aging Toyota breaks down far too few miles down the road, and a sleazy bounty hunter catches up with her.<br />After extraordinary effort, Renee escapes, but she knows she needs help to avoid recapture. Unfortunately, she picks the wrong man for assistance when she hitches a ride with vacationing Tolosa police detective, John DeMarco.<br />Burned-out John is supposed to be on vacation, far away from the riffraff he puts up with on the job. The last thing he needs is a gorgeous, blond grifter, willing to seduce him to evade paying for her crimes.<br />But in spite of his cynicism, Renee's claims of innocence soon begin to make sense to John. If she's a cold-blooded criminal, who's allegedly committed assault with a deadly weapon to rob a store, why is she so unwilling to have anything to do with guns? In particular, using John's gun to shoot =him= and flee when she gets the chance.<br />Maybe he's not just thinking with his hormones, stupidly taken in by hot curves, and deceptively honest eyes.<br />Renee is an extremely sympathetic heroine. She's had a very hard life, yet refuses to give up, even when everything seems to be stacked against her. John is a hero worthy of her, as he digs beneath his pessimism, and Renee's &quot;obvious&quot; guilt, to discover the real truth and help Renee, for once in her life, find justice and love.<br />A real keeper!	2001-10-26
US	52841535	R2HLQ28CKLNMQ6	0821767496	977005153	Just The Way You Are (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent historical of Virginia	Both fans of historical romance and straight historicals will like this seriously researched historical. It also has enough humor to keep it from being bogged down in angst. Here is the 5-star review from Romantic Times for this debut novel:<br /><br />Like most people who work in the hardship of Virginia, John Bradford was forced to leave England when he was kidnapped from the streets of London and brought to the colony. He can't understand why his new society destructively cultivates tobacco.<br /><br />Lady's maid Lacey Cochran follows some years later on a ship bringing well-bred brides for the lonely Colonists. Lacey seeks to escape the consequences of a disastrous romance with a member of the peerage and fears exposure of her true station and her lack of virginity. When John kidnaps her as part of his plan for revenge on the Virginia Company, she decides he offers her an easier explanation to a husband. Neither counts on the intensity their relationship develops while they're alone at John's cabin in the woods.<br /><br />Donna Jordan foreshadows, and explains, the 1622 attack by Pocahontas' tribe on the colony of the Virginia Company, which resulted in 300-plus deaths. The romances between Lacey and John, her friend Clara and a near-starving Colonist are poignant and funny against the stark environment and errors caused by the need to gain wealth from raising tobacco. This is prime historical reading.	2001-10-25
US	52841535	R3PE35ODFFBM18	0515131814	944880032	Heaven Sent (Love Letters)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Passionate, poetic and humorous tale	As a postal clerk in the village of Santa Angelica, California, in 1897, Callida Prophet knows it's illegal to read other people's mail. But the heart-rending letters written faithfully by little Becky Lockhart are addressed to her mother in heaven, a deceased local woman named Anne Lockhart. Callie is determined to do anything she can to help the poor child cope with her terrible loss by writing back to Becky and signing her letters, &quot;Mama.&quot; Everyone in town knows about, and eagerly follows, this unusual correspondence, which is sanctioned by Mr. Wilson, the Santa Angelica postmaster. Then Becky writes that her father is planning to hire her a nanny, and Callie feels compelled to quit her job and apply for the job.<br />Aubrey Lockhart, the wealthiest man in town, has been overcome by grief since his wife died a year ago. It is difficult for him to be with Becky, who reminds him of his lovely, gentle wife.<br />Though Callie is not stern and gray-haired as Aubrey thinks a nanny should be, he can't resist hiring her when he interviews her, because there is something very appealing about the lively Callie.<br />When Callie first meets Aubrey, he seems stubborn, cold and sarcastic. But when Becky finds the love letters Aubrey wrote to his wife years ago and asks Callie to read them to her, Callie discovers a completely different man who is poetic, passionate and utterly devoted.<br />Suddenly, Callie sees the moody, mysterious widower with new, more loving eyes....<br />In addition to a wonderful hero and heroine, with lots of snappy dialogue between them, Becky is an adorable child, and Callie's pet is a super cat named Monster. If you like a light, humorous read that is full of emotion and fascinating conflict, you'll really enjoy this book.	2001-10-25
US	52841535	RC1ROAK9ABYBQ	0373763980	647592324	Last Virgin In California (Bachelor Battalion)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Emotionally intense, very sexy read	This book is part of Ms. Child's Bachelor Battalion series with Marine heroes.<br />Lilah Forrest's Marine-colonel father has been tossing hand-picked officers in her path for years, hoping she'll take the bait and settle down with one of them. But Lilah has sworn she'll never marry military--she's just too unconventional to fit into such a structured lifestyle. Her objections haven't discouraged her father a bit, though, and he steamrolls Sergeant Kevin Rogan into playing Lilah's personal escort when she visits her father at the base he commands in San Diego.<br />When Lilah warns Kevin of her father's plans, he's appalled--divorced and wary, Kevin has no desire to test the choppy waters of romance again anytime soon. Relieved at first at Kevin's understanding, all too soon Lilah is shocked to find that the sexy drill instructor has her rethinking her decree against a military match, ready to give up her status as the Last Virgin in California in the face of his searing touch.<br />Kevin Rogan is an extremely yummy hero, strong but vulnerable. The sexual and emotional tension between him and the artistic, carefree heroine, Lilah, are tremendous. This book was too hot to put down--I read it in one sitting, eagerly flipping pages, late into the night.<br />If you like Suzanne Brockmann's SEAL stories, you'll really enjoy Ms. Child's Marine tales.	2001-10-24
US	52841535	R4B12YIRR63XN	1892520257	883197211	Too Much For Words	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fun fantasy romance	Don't worry--Too Much for Words is =not= out of print. This 185-page book can be bought in either hardback, trade paperback or eBook form...<br />Science fiction novelist, Judi Somers, is so obsessed with her imaginary hero, Race Parsec, she begs her friend, Felix, a brilliant scientist, to create a clone with all her ideal man's traits. But as Judi and Felix work together on the perfect man, Judi finds herself more and more drawn to his not-so-perfect creator, and begins to wonder if Felix, not Race, is actually the man of her dreams.<br />Felix wants to please Judi, and is fascinated himself with creating the android, Race. But as Race rolls off the lab table, ready to rumble, Felix, who has been secretly in love with Judi for years, wonders how he can ever complete with his fabulous creation. Fortunately for Felix, things aren't quite what Judi expects when she gets her sexy space rover in the (artificial-but-real-looking) flesh.<br />If you like romantic comedy, you will enjoy this very funny twist on the Frankenstein tale. Diana Rubino has a quick-paced, lively style of writing, and her characters are extremely sympathetic.	2001-08-29
US	52841535	R1WR43KGKM9NWL	0965572145	472914519	Words On Tape: How To Create Profitable Spoken Word Audio on Cassettes and CDs	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Excellent guide to producing books on tape	Judy Byers is a nationally known consultant to publishing companies. She has specialized in spoken-word audio since 1987. Prior to that she was a radio producer/commentator for the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation and worked for U.S. radio and television stations. She owns Audio Cassette Producers in Denver, Colorado. The audio-cassette market collects over $4 billion a year in sales, and Words on Tape is an invaluable, fact-filled resource for anyone who hopes to insert themselves in this market. This 230-page trade paperback has a table of contents, an index, and offers multiple appendices, including a comprehensive list of resources, fill-in forms for audio production, and templates to use for audio cassettes. The subjects covered in the main body of the text include the following (with each chapter providing its own particular list of resources): (1) the market for audio publishing; (2) what sells and steps in production; (3) planning your project; (4) copyrights, contracts and ISBN's; (5) budgeting your time and money; (6) scripts and narrators; (7) choosing the right packaging for your audio book; (8) how the production studio works and how much time it takes to record a tape in the studio; (9) what happens at the time of recording; (10) editing the audio tape; (11) duplication and labeling; (12) marketing and sales; (13) selling to bookstores and libraries; (14) information on CD's. This book is a fascinating, extremely practical guide for anyone who has ever wondered what would be involved in getting their words on tape, from self-publishers, to mainstream-published nonfiction writers, to companies offering business seminars. In addition, many authors who have published fiction through mainstream publishers have found that it is an excellent marketing and promotion method to tape their own audio how-to-write-fiction lectures and market them to would-be fiction writers and fans. You can't miss with this book. Highly recommended!	2001-08-27
US	52841535	R31D23N38A9MBO	1886941386	729314853	Finding a Career That Works for You: A Step-by-Step Guide to Choosing a Career	Books	5	41	47	N	N	Outstanding career-choice guide	Wilma Fellman, M.Ed., has been a Licensed Professional Counselor for over 18 years. She specializes in working with adolescents and adults with attention deficit disorder (ADD), learning disabilities (LD), and other challenges, with respect to career issues. She is the founder and coordinator of Michigan Adolescent and Adult ADD Network for Professionals and is on the Board of Directors of the National Attention Deficit Disorder Association and the Michigan Career Development Association. Ms. Fellman is the author of the book, The Other Me: Poetic Thoughts on ADD for Adults, Kids and Parents, and co-presenter in an instructional video called Succeeding in College and Career with ADD. She has presented workshops at local, state and national levels on the subject of career development decisions for people with ADD, LD and other special challenges. This 200-page trade paperback has an index, a table of contents, a list of job-search resources and an appendix with sample resumes. It covers the following topics as they pertain to job search: (1) career development; (2) career interests; (3) individual skills, accomplishments and aptitude; (4) personality type; (5) prioritizing work and leisure; (6) early career dreams; (7) individual energy patterns and work habits; (8) completing a job history; (9) special challenges (such as ADD and LD); (10) adding new job skills; (11) the changing labor market; (12) job information resources; (13) how people find jobs; (14) preparing a resume and cover letter; (15) interviewing; (16) laws affecting the job application and interview process; (17) getting off on the right foot and adjusting to a new job. I heard of this book through a mail order house specializing in books of interest to adults, teens and children with ADD. However, this book is not only for people with ADD or LD. It is an outstanding guide for anyone, at any age, in the process of searching for a job or choosing a career. Ms. Fellman helps readers better understand their interests, aptitudes, personality and goals as the first steps in choosing a career. Then she provides practical tips on how to find a job in a chosen field. The many personal stories provided by the author of people who have found work they love are very inspiring. I also found particularly helpful a listing of occupations from the Dictionary of Occupational titles (DOT) published by the U.S. Department of Labor.eir interests, aptitudes, personality and goals as the first steps in choosing a career. Then she provides practical tips on how to find a job in a chosen field. The many personal stories provided by the author of people who have found work they love are very inspiring. I also found particularly helpful a listing of occupations from the Dictionary of Occupational titles (DOT) published by the U.S. Department of Labor.	2001-08-27
US	52841535	RTR7IASXVX1LL	1573241261	683371654	Freedoms After Fifty	Books	3	27	29	N	N	This book is for women over 65, not age 50	This is the bio on Sue Patton Thoele provided at the back of her book: &quot;The author is a licensed psychotherapist living in Boulder, Colorado with her husband, Gene. She is a mom and grandmother as well as a woman's group facilitator, speaker, and baker of creative birthday cakes, who has recently become enthralled by swimming with free dolphins. Sue is the author of The Courage To Be Yourself, The Woman's Book of Courage, The Woman's Book of Confidence, The Woman's Book of Spirit, Autumn of the Spring Chicken, The Woman's Book of Soul, Heart Centered Marriage, and The Courage To Be Yourself Journal.&quot; Freedoms after 50 is a small (7&quot; x 5.5&quot;), 155-page hardback divided into 79 subject sections, each containing one to two short paragraphs of advice. The topics it covers are not particularly relevant to menopausal women, but they are fairly appropriate for some women in the age range of 65 and above. Examples of these topics include: dealing with forgetfulness; gracefully accepting the extensive wrinkling of old age; reconsidering having a spiritual life and tapping into the power of prayer now that you are approaching the end of your life; taking up creative hobbies such as writing poetry without worrying about how well you write; napping more than you did before retirement and sleeping as much or as little as you like at night; accepting that you need material security in your life; reveling in the fact that you no longer need to keep track of time; allowing yourself to spend lots of time enjoying your grandchildren. Mrs. Thoele has written this book based on her own journey through aging. Her comments may be encouraging and helpful to many women over 65, and, as such, I would highly recommend that she consider, in a future edition, changing the title to &quot;Freedoms after 65.&quot; Most women at 50 are not yet at the stage in life that the concerns and interests addressed in this book are relevant to them. I would not recommend this book, then, as a 50th birthday present but it would be a decent choice as a 60th, 70th or 80th birthday present. If you do not open this book expecting anything particularly profound, you will not be disappointed. Its main benefit might be to catch your attention and point you in the direction of topics that you might want to do more extensive reading on. You may also unexpectedly find yourself taking Mrs. Thoele's advice to laugh more as you read her book, because many of its sections are weirdly, unintentionally funny. Prime example, the short essay, Roll with the Punches: &quot;A dear friend and I were talking about the quiet joy we feel over our burgeoning ability to greet almost all circumstances with equanimity. Laughing, we decided that is probably the reason why our once-youthful, firm bottoms now look less like basketballs and more like the sand-filled bases of those clown punching balloons that were popular when our kids were young. Age is reforming our bodies to better roll with the punches!&quot; Ahem. In case you might be looking for an inspirational book for women over 60 to give as a birthday gift that has a bit more &quot;meat&quot; in it than this one, I would highly recommend The Last Gift of Time, by Carolyn G. Heilbrun.as a 50th birthday present but it would be a decent choice as a 60th, 70th or 80th birthday present. If you do not open this book expecting anything particularly profound, you will not be disappointed. Its main benefit might be to catch your attention and point you in the direction of topics that you might want to do more extensive reading on. You may also unexpectedly find yourself taking Mrs. Thoele's advice to laugh more as you read her book, because many of its sections are weirdly, unintentionally funny. Prime example, the short essay, Roll with the Punches: &quot;A dear friend and I were talking about the quiet joy we feel over our burgeoning ability to greet almost all circumstances with equanimity. Laughing, we decided that is probably the reason why our once-youthful, firm bottoms now look less like basketballs and more like the sand-filled bases of those clown punching balloons that were popular when our kids were young. Age is reforming our bodies to better roll with the punches!&quot; Ahem. In case you might be looking for an inspirational book for women over 60 to give as a birthday gift that has a bit more &quot;meat&quot; in it than this one, I would highly recommend The Last Gift of Time, by Carolyn G. Heilbrun.	2001-08-26
US	52841535	RJN33PXP0QJK5	0226808300	741753302	Crossing Ocean Parkway	Books	3	4	6	N	N	90% negative view of contemporary Italian-American life	Dr. Marianna De Marco Torgovnick is professor specializing in American Literature in the English Department of Duke University, located in Durham, North Carolina. This book is a series of essays about her life during and after growing up as an Italian-American in the Bensonhurst area of Brooklyn, New York. Here are the contents of the essays in her book:<br />(1) \\"On Being White, Female and Born in Bensonhurst\\" describes life in Dr. Torgovnick's neighborhood, looking back from the present. (2) The title essay, \\"Crossing Ocean Parkway,\\" portrays this famous Brooklyn thoroughfare as a symbol of a dividing line between the author's neighborhood and an outside world she saw as much more desirable than her home arena. (3) \\"The College Way\\" charts Dr. Torgovnick's arrival as a new Ph.D. in a small, New England college town, where she faced prejudice because of being Italian-American. (4) In \\"Dr. Doolittle and the Acquisitive Life,\\" \\"The Paglia Principle,\\" and \\"The Godfather as the World's Most Typical Novel,\\" Torgovnick interweaves autobiographical comments with observations on American culture in the areas of individuality vs. community, upward mobility vs. ethnic loyalty, and acquisitiveness vs. spirituality. (5) \\"The Politics of 'We'\\" is, to me, the most significant essay in the book, because in it Dr. Torgovnick finally admits that she received valuable things from her Italian-American heritage. Up until this point, she has been constantly directly and indirectly putting down her background. On describing her return home to Bensonhurst because of the final illness and death of her father, she, at long last, though not very strongly, and not as a means of trying assure us she has overcome her past delusion, admits to herself the important gifts her father gave to her. She states: \\"So [my father] was not devaluing females; he was valuing them in the way he knew best. In fact my father loved his female relatives intensely. He adored his mother&#8230;.He was a family man, devoted to custom because, in his experience, custom was what kept families going. People had children because people loved children and took care of them; nothing was more basic than that to my father.\\"<br />As a person who is not Italian-American, but very interested in reading accurate portrayals of this ethnic group, I was disappointed in this book. Many Italian-Americans have justly protested the stereotypical ways they are portrayed by the media. Sadly, a great many of these stereotypes are perpetuated, as in most of this book except he last few pages, by Italian-Americans themselves. If you want to read a much more positive view of Italian-American life (as something to treasure rather than flee), try Richard Gambino's Blood of My Blood., devoted to custom because, in his experience, custom was what kept families going. People had children because people loved children and took care of them; nothing was more basic than that to my father.\\"  <br />As a person who is not Italian-American, but very interested in reading accurate portrayals of this ethnic group, I was disappointed in this book. Many Italian-Americans have justly protested the stereotypical ways they are portrayed by the media. Sadly, a great many of these stereotypes are perpetuated, as in most of this book except he last few pages, by Italian-Americans themselves. If you want to read a much more positive view of Italian-American life (as something to treasure rather than flee), try Richard Gambino's Blood of My Blood.	2001-08-23
US	52841535	RAVAJKE003YMM	076456157X	371380447	Frommer's Chicago 2001 (Frommer's Complete Guides)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent guide to Chicago	The author of Frommer's Chicago 2001, Craig Keller, has been a journalist in Chicago for more than a decade. As such, he is very familiar with the area, and he is an excellent writer, which makes the book easy to read.<br />This 321-page guide has an excellent index and table of contents. It is filled with photos and is well laid out with color-coded margins to help you thumb to the different sections. These include: (1) The Best of Chicago: the best among Chicago's hotels, restaurants and entertainment experiences. (2) Planning your trip to Chicago: suggestions on when to go to Chicago, an annual calendar of Chicago events, tips for travelers with special needs, means of getting to Chicago, and information on O'Hare Airport. (3) Advice for Foreign Visitors: information for non-U.S. citizens with a summing-up section called Fast Facts. (4) Orientation to Chicago: information on the Chicago River, ethnic neighborhoods, and public transportation. (5) Where to Stay: types of accommodations in all the major segments of town. (6) Where to Dine: restaurants listed by area of town, type of food, and cost. (7) Exploring Chicago: the sights in Chicago that tourists like to see. (8) Shopping: all the most famous shopping sites. (9) Chicago after Dark: bars, clubs and musical shows of Chicago. (10) Appendix: information on Chicago history and politics.<br />I highly recommend this thorough, readable, glossily attractive guide. It is easy to use, and full of every kind of information a visitor, new or returning, could want on Chicago.	2001-08-23
US	52841535	R35LPJ64GQHJ64	0844289949	514247044	Passport's Guide to Ethnic Chicago	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great cultural guide to Chicago	This unique travel guide blends contemporary cultural attractions, parades, festivals, banquets, cotillions, tours, and ethnic museums, with a comprehensive dining and shopping guide. It also tracks the progress of diverse ethnic groups throughout their tenure in Chicago, one of America's most culturally diverse cities. Because of the natural and man-made barriers in this spacious city (25 miles long and ten miles wide), including railroad embankments, expressways and three branches of the Chicago River (extending 50 miles across the landscape), over the years different ethnic groups have lived in relative seclusion from each other, even when there has been as little as a few hundred feet between them.<br />This 378-page trade paperback has no index, but there is a clear table of contents listing these topics: (1) Native Americans, French traders and settlers from New England, (2) Irish Chicago, (3) German Chicago, (4) Swedish and Norwegian Chicago, (5) Jewish Chicago, (6) Czech and Slovak Chicago, (7) Baltic Chicago, (8) Hungarian, Serbo-Croatian, and Romanian Chicago, (9) Ukrainian Chicago, (10) Polish Chicago, (11) Italian Chicago, (12) Greek Chicago, (13) African-American Chicago, (14) Chinese Chicago, (15) Asian Chicago, (16) Latino Chicago, (17) Indian and Pakistani Chicago, (18) Middle Eastern Chicago, (19) Appendices with information on: multiethnic festivals, useful phone numbers and addresses, and a bibliography of suggested reading; (20) 18 maps of different areas of Chicago.<br />This book is not just for tourists, though they will certainly find it very useful. Anyone interested in the rich multicultural heritage of Chicago, both residents and visitors alike, will find much to appreciate in this book. I highly recommend it.	2001-08-23
US	52841535	R2O5RRCGTR7J56	037540399X	705039790	Sicilian Home Cooking: Family Recipes from Gangivecchio	Books	5	53	59	N	N	Easy-to-use, entertaining cookbook with yummy recipes	The authors, Wanda Tornabene and her daughter, Giovanna Tornabene, are co-owners of Gangivecchio, a restaurant housed in a thirteenth-century abbey in Sicily's Madonie Mountains. In addition to providing scrumptious, authentic Sicilian recipes, this cookbook is great fun to read, because these two world-class chefs also offer many funny stories of their colorful relatives, friends and pets.<br />Their detailed table of contents, thorough index, and menu plans guide you easily through the book, and the recipes are divided into these convenient sections: appetizers, soups, egg dishes, pizza and focaccia, pasta, couscous, rice, meat main-course dishes, fish and seafood main-course dishes, vegetables, salads, desserts, wines and liqueurs.<br />I, personally, am on a high-protein diet, and one might wonder what someone like me could possibly get from a cookbook whose recipes all hail from the land of pasta. Actually, quite a lot. The vegetable, meat and seafood dishes are delicious, low-carb, and not horribly time consuming to make. And it is crucial on a special diet to, as much as possible, find things that taste good to eat our you won't stay on it. All of these recipes are packed with flavor. Here are some examples of my personal favorites from the vegetable-dishes section: Syracuse-Style Peppers (olive oil, salt, mint leaves, garlic, and vinegar for seasoning), Country-Style Eggplant (olive oil, vinegar, oregano, mint, and hot pepper flakes for seasoning), Gangi-Style Artichokes (onions, green olives, capers, celery hearts, vinegar, and pepper for seasoning).<br />In addition, even those of us on a high-protein diet can occasionally have bread. And, as for me, if I am going to indulge, I much prefer to eat really great bread, such as the terrific focaccia in this cookbook. The authors furnish a basic focaccia dough recipe from which you can spring off into many variations such as broccoli focaccia, focaccia with onions and tomatoes, spinach focaccia, and focaccia stuffed with arugula, sun-dried tomatoes and/or cheese.<br />I highly recommend this cookbook for inexperienced as well as seasoned cooks, whether cooking for themselves alone, or for their families and friends. If you love Italian cooking, you'll adore these Sicilian recipes!uffed with arugula, sun-dried tomatoes and/or cheese.<br />I highly recommend this cookbook for inexperienced as well as seasoned cooks, whether cooking for themselves alone, or for their families and friends. If you love Italian cooking, you'll adore these Sicilian recipes!	2001-08-22
US	52841535	R3T2C746NMQC16	0960695419	767156018	Portraits of Temperament	Books	5	149	150	N	N	Excellent further reading for students of Keirsey	I do not recommend this book as a first choice selection for someone who has never read about Myers-Briggs personality typing. Therefore, I am gearing this review toward readers who are familiar with Myers-Briggs theory, preferably through Dr. David Keirsey's other work.<br />Keirsey and Bates's Please Understand Me, first published in 1978, sold nearly 2 million copies in its first 20 years. In 1998, it was reissued in a substantially expanded form as Please Understand Me II. These books have been perennial favorites for training and counseling in public schools (for teachers as well as students), college and university career-counseling centers, private psychotherapy practices, church therapy centers, and human-resource departments in business. I believe the Please Understand Me books have been so popular because Keirsey's personality questionnaire is both easy to use and very accurate in its results.<br />If you want to discover your personality type immediately using Keirsey's personality type test, you can do so at Keirsey's web site. Reviewers are not permitted by Amazon to give web addresses, but a quick search of Google or Yahoo for &quot;David Keirsey&quot; will net you his site in seconds. It is highly recommended that, before you read Portraits of Temperament, you at least browse the many articles on Keirsey's site or read Please Understand Me II sold here on Amazon.<br />Dr. Keirsey has been &quot;people watching&quot; for fifty years, and his interest in temperament stretches back almost that far. For those who know Myers-Briggs theory, it is no surprise to hear that Dr. Keirsey is an NT (Rational), a type that delights in logical investigation. Over his long career as a clinical psychologist, professor and researcher, Dr. Keirsey has been most interested in studying the three areas of personality, intelligence and madness. Since he is a highly educated academician, it is not altogether surprising that the language in his books, including this one, is often jargon-laden and hard to wade through. But if you can get past that hurdle, the content in this book, as well as in his other ones, is well worth the effort.<br />So, why exactly should you read Portraits of Temperament or, for that matter, expose yourself to Keirsey at all? The primary reason, I believe, is the following, which Dr. Keirsey states in Please Understand Me II: &quot;People are different from each other, and...no amount of getting after them is going to change them. Nor is there any reason to change them, because the differences are probably good.&quot; Ultimately, the study of Myers-Briggs-based personality typing in Keirsey's books is a direct route to empowerment, of yourself and, through you, the people in your life. Learning what Keirsey teaches allows you to understand profound ways in which you and others &quot;tick.&quot; This crucial knowledge can pave the way for accepting many aspects of yourself and others that you cannot change. And perhaps even learning to appreciate these unchangeables of personality as a positive rather than a negative.<br />Portraits of Temperament is a 124-page trade paperback first published in 1987. It has no index, but it does have a table of contents, appendices (one of which is the Keirsey Temperament Sorter and scoring guide), and a useful bibliography. The topics covered in the book include: (1) Comparison of theories of human personality across history, starting from Hippocrates' Choleric, Phlegmatic, Melancholic and Sanguine temperaments, through the typologies of Paracelsus, Adickes, Spranger, Kretschmer, Fromm, Myers, and on up to Keirsey himself. If you enjoy reading about the history of ideas, this section alone is worth the price of admission. (2) Discussion of various aspects of the two types of Artisans (SP), the Operators (STP) and the Players (SFP). (Again, please note that I am gearing this review to those who have studied Myers-Briggs or Keirsey and know the terminology.) (3) Discussion of thetwo types of Guardians (SJ), the Monitors (STJ) and the Conservators (SFJ). (4) Discussion of the two types of Rationals (NT), the Organizers (NTJ) and the Engineers (NTP). (5) Discussion of the two types of Idealists (NF), Mentors (NFJ) and Advocates (NFP).<br />In each section, in addition to general descriptions of how the various types function, Keirsey includes information on how they function as mates, how they learn and develop skills, and how frequent they are in the general population.<br />For anyone who is serious about studying Myers-Briggs, this book is definitely worth having in your library of resources. I highly recommend it.he two types of Guardians (SJ), the Monitors (STJ) and the Conservators (SFJ). (4) Discussion of the two types of Rationals (NT), the Organizers (NTJ) and the Engineers (NTP). (5) Discussion of the two types of Idealists (NF), Mentors (NFJ) and Advocates (NFP). <br />In each section, in addition to general descriptions of how the various types function, Keirsey includes information on how they function as mates, how they learn and develop skills, and how frequent they are in the general population.<br />For anyone who is serious about studying Myers-Briggs, this book is definitely worth having in your library of resources. I highly recommend it.	2001-08-22
US	52841535	R1DVH3XB9R6SU9	0674603788	250599998	The Natural History of Alcoholism Revisited	Books	5	84	85	N	N	A vital book on the long-term course of alcoholism	This book is written with a scholarly audience in mind and may be a challenging read for anyone who is not a professional in the field of mental health or medicine.<br />The author of The Natural History of Alcoholism, George E. Vaillant, is a Professor of Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School. He is also Director of the Study of Adult Development at Harvard University Health Services and Director of Research in the Division of Psychiatry of Brigham Hospital and Women's Hospital in the Boston, Massachusetts area.<br />The insights on alcoholism in this book come from a long-term study conducted by the Harvard Medical School's Study of Adult Development (SAD). The following groups have funded SAD: the National Institute of Mental Health, the National Institute of Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, the National Institute of Aging, the William T. Grant Foundation, the Spencer Foundation, the Milton Fund and the Commonwealth Fund. SAD has followed 655 men from 1940 to the present, over 60 years. Other than this study, five to eight years is the most any other scientists have followed alcoholics. At the start of SAD, the subjects were young men, and none of them had yet manifested any symptoms of alcoholism. By following their lives over many decades, the researchers learned a great deal about how alcoholism, a chronic condition, manifests and changes over time.<br />In 1940, the participants of SAD were divided into two groups: (1) College Sample: 268 upper-class, male, Harvard sophomores were selected with 27 eventually excluded due to death, withdrawal from the study or lack of adequate information on them. Of the 241 that were left, at age 70, the lifetime prevalence of alcohol abuse was 22%. That is, during their adult life, 52 of them met the DSM-III criteria for alcohol abuse. (2) Core-City Sample: 456 lower-class boys from Boston's inner city were junior-high-school age at the start of the study. Of these, 414 were able to be adequately studied over time. By age 60, at some point in their adult lives 36%, or 150, of them met the DSM-III criteria for alcohol abuse. Dr. Vaillant states that the lifetime prevalence of alcohol abuse is 24% among white, middle-aged males, according to another study released 10 years ago of 20,000 adults. This figure falls between the 22% for the College sample and the 36% for the Core City sample.<br />Dr. Vaillant thoroughly discusses the findings of SAD on the following research questions: (1) Is alcoholism a symptom or a disease? (2) Does alcoholism usually get progressively worse? (3) Are alcoholics, before they begin to abuse alcohol, different from nonalcoholics? (4) Is abstinence a necessary goal of treatment, or can insisting on abstinence sometimes be counterproductive? (5) Is returning to safe, social drinking possible for some alcoholics? (6) Does treatment alter the natural history of alcoholism? (7) How helpful is Alcoholics Anonymous in the treatment of alcoholism?<br />Here are a few fascinating points on these issues that Dr. Vaillant reports:<br />Alcoholics participating in various recovery programs have, over time, little more success at recovery from alcoholism than if they were not treated at all.<br />Contrary to popular belief, alcoholism has a slow onset, often as long as 20 years.<br />In the case of moderate drinkers, \\"given enough education, willpower, social supports, and an undemanding lifestyle,\\" their abuse of alcohol can be sustained for almost all their life without any major price in health or social success.<br />It isn't underlying psychopathology (personal and social problems due to either genetics or inadequate nurturing) that causes alcoholism. Rather, it is alcoholic drinking that produces psychopathology, including: psychological dependence on alcohol, problems with friends, family and coworkers, accidents, health problems, financial problems, blackouts, depression, anxiety, oral fixation, self-doubts, self-loathing, pessimism, self-defeating behavior, paranoia, aggression and violence leading to trouble with the police. When alcohol abuse ends, these destructive traits and actions frequently go away, leaving the recovered alcoholic no more dysfunctional than \\"normal\\" people.<br />After over 50 years of looking at the alcoholics from this study, Dr. Vaillant has concluded that while alcoholism progresses, getting heavier from age 18 to 40, after that, it starts to stabilize, and alcoholics are rarely worse off at 65 than they were at 45. By 65 one-third of alcoholics are either dead or in terrible health (progressive), one-third are abstinent or drinking in a safe, social manner (recovered), and one-third are trying to quit and haven't been able to (unrecovered). The progressives tend to have the worst symptoms (see the list above) once they start abusing alcohol and spent more years feeling out of control (progressing from bad to worse). Of the three groups, the ones most likely to recover are those at either end of the spectrum. Those who are the worst off have the most to lose if they don't quit--all they hold dear and their very lives. Those who have a mild drinking problem have relatively little to give up, and are much more likely to have supportive social connections (very important in giving up alcohol) because their behavior isn't as bad as that of the progressives, so they've alienated less people.<br />I highly recommend this book to all mental health professionals and medical doctors--especially general practitioners. I also recommend it to motivated non-professionals who have a personal stake in learning everything they can about addiction.noia, aggression and violence leading to trouble with the police. When alcohol abuse ends, these destructive traits and actions frequently go away, leaving the recovered alcoholic no more dysfunctional than \\"normal\\" people.<br />After over 50 years of looking at the alcoholics from this study, Dr. Vaillant has concluded that while alcoholism progresses, getting heavier from age 18 to 40, after that, it starts to stabilize, and alcoholics are rarely worse off at 65 than they were at 45. By 65 one-third of alcoholics are either dead or in terrible health (progressive), one-third are abstinent or drinking in a safe, social manner (recovered), and one-third are trying to quit and haven't been able to (unrecovered). The progressives tend to have the worst symptoms (see the list above) once they start abusing alcohol and spent more years feeling out of control (progressing from bad to worse). Of the three groups, the ones most likely to recover are those at either end of the spectrum. Those who are the worst off have the most to lose if they don't quit--all they hold dear and their very lives. Those who have a mild drinking problem have relatively little to give up, and are much more likely to have supportive social connections (very important in giving up alcohol) because their behavior isn't as bad as that of the progressives, so they've alienated less people.<br />I highly recommend this book to all mental health professionals and medical doctors--especially general practitioners. I also recommend it to motivated non-professionals who have a personal stake in learning everything they can about addiction.	2001-08-17
US	52841535	R1LHVCXD7J857X	0449912736	689610251	Pills That Work, Pills That Don't: A Family Guide to Personal Pharmacology	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A vital guide to prescription drugs	The warning, &quot;Consumer beware!&quot; is crucial in the matter of prescription drugs, and Dr. Bosker's book can greatly assist you in educating yourself about them. He states which medications work, which ones don't, which are unacceptably unsafe, and which ones are dangerous in combination with each other in these areas: childhood disease, heart disease, high blood pressure, psychiatric problems, asthma, allergies, skin conditions, stroke, headaches, gastrointestinal problems, infections, cancer, HIV, osteoporosis, arthritis, pain relief, prostate problems, menopause, contraception, and life extension.<br />Though Dr. Bosker's book covers an intimidating subject in a very comprehensive way, fortunately, his writing is clear and straightforward and the book is well laid out, so it is easy to use. An index and table of contents allow you to look up the specific medications you're interested in and zip to the section that covers them. There is also a bibliography of references, if you want to do further reading, and a list of organizations which can give you more information about prescription drugs.<br />I believe this important reference book should be in every American home, particularly those with children on medications or with elderly people who have multiple prescriptions.	2001-08-15
US	52841535	RTX1H4DH2U46L	0890153795	329646824	Spanish-English Housekeeping	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Excellent guide to household Spanish	My children are both studying Spanish, and I decided to help them get fluent in it by having the three of us speak it together. Having studied Spanish years ago, I was a bit rusty, and I've found Dietz's book a great ready reference on vocabulary relevant to the contents of the home. It covers everything you might find in the kitchen, dining room, living room, family room, master bedroom, bathroom, boy's and girl's rooms, nursery, bar, laundry, patio and yard. It also provides vocabulary for home emergencies, the metric system and general conversation, and a useful index at the end of the book acts like a mini dictionary of all the items covered in the book.<br />I highly recommend this book to put on your reference shelf alongside a Spanish-English dictionary and a book on verbs such as the excellent Spanish Verb Manual by Alfredo Gonzalez Hermoso.	2001-08-15
US	52841535	R2OAB1DX0AXOMG	1582970548	967841037	How to Write Funny	Books	5	54	60	N	N	A must read for anyone who wants to write humor!	This 228-page trade paperback offers an excellent index and is divided into three sections. Part I covers the basics of writing comedy. Part II discusses writing comedy in the context of numerous genres, including general fiction, literary fiction, science fiction, romance and various non-fiction forms such as columns, articles, fillers and books. Part III includes interviews with multiple humor greats, ranging from Dave Barry to Peg Bracken to Denise Duhamel. The writing in each of the 30 articles of this collection is wonderful. Every contributor--these are humor experts, afterall--writes in a style that is so lively, you can laugh your head off and have a ball while learning absolutely terrific inside tips on comedy.<br />What a coup for Writer's Digest to add this fabulous book to their lineup of writing-instruction books! It's a gold mine of information for every type of writer, fiction and nonfiction, long and short format. Whether you simply want to occasionally leaven intense drama with humor, or you plan to write all-out, belly-busting comedy, this book is for you.	2001-08-15
US	52841535	R38I7RAUYKAAQ	0844213462	672562763	Spanish Verb Manual : Correct Conjugation and Regional Use	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Comprehensive, easy-to-use guide to Spanish verbs	This extremely thorough and clearly laid-out reference book includes the following information: (1) extensive grammatical information on Spanish verbs; (2) 87 pages of tables of model verbs, including all moods and tenses, with every irregular verb form; (3) an alphabetical listing of 5000 verbs with their definition in English and a referral to a particular model verb which has the same conjugation; (4) information on prepositions used with verbs; (5) idiomatic verb expressions; (6) regional use of Spanish verbs; (7) regional use of ustedes and vos.<br />I highly recommend this excellent Spanish-verb guide to anyone who is currently studying Spanish or who has studied it in the past and is looking for a handy way to review verbs.	2001-08-15
US	52841535	RVZAV057MR9KQ	0451148452	777820803	Intimate Connections	Books	5	134	142	N	N	Excellent guide for overcoming loneliness	David D. Burns, M.D., has been a Clinical Associate Professor in the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences at the Stanford University School of Medicine since 1995, the same school where he received his M.D. degree in the 1970's. From 1975 to 1995, Dr. Burns served on the clinical faculty of the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine and served as Acting Chief of Psychiatry at the Presbyterian Medical Center of the University of Pennsylvania Health System. He has also written: Feeling Good: The New Mood Therapy; The Feeling Good Handbook; and Ten Days to Self-Esteem. He teaches workshops for the public and continuing-education seminars for mental health professionals. He was recently featured in a 90-minute nationally televised PBS program on depression entitled \\"Feeling Good\\"....<br />Though this book is primarily directed at single people struggling to find a compatible mate, I also found it very useful, even though I am happily married, for two major reasons: (a) Loneliness. Dr. Burns believes that loneliness is not a function of who you are with, or not with, but arises out of not treating yourself well and enjoying your own company. Thus, even people who are blessed with a wonderful mate can get lonely from time to time. Dr. Burns shows you how to head off loneliness at its source by building your self-esteem through the technique of treating yourself with care and respect. People who treat themselves badly not only feel badly about themselves, they get very needy. When you are needy, you tend to become very self-centered, and other people very naturally shy away from that. Who wants to be with someone who is clinging to you out of desperation rather than unselfish, generous interest and affection? (b) Distorted Thinking. Dr. Burns says that the way we interpret the actions of the people around us affects how happy or unhappy we are--and how successful we are in getting and keeping close relationships. He provides many simple, practical suggestions for changing negative, irrational thinking so that we can prevent depression, anxiety and general misery both inside ourselves and within our relationships.<br />I highly recommend this insightful, practical book to people in every type of relationship situation, whether unhappily alone, unhappily together, or happily together and wanting to keep it that way. Dr. Burns's advice can help fix or prevent any relationship problems you might have.tions for changing negative, irrational thinking so that we can prevent depression, anxiety and general misery both inside ourselves and within our relationships.<br />I highly recommend this insightful, practical book to people in every type of relationship situation, whether unhappily alone, unhappily together, or happily together and wanting to keep it that way. Dr. Burns's advice can help fix or prevent any relationship problems you might have.	2001-08-14
US	52841535	R3AN2HDGJ9E922	0028636392	816680228	Complete Idiot's Guide to Understanding Catholicism	Books	5	20	34	N	N	Fascinating overview of the Catholic faith	Bob O'Gorman has taught in the divinity schools of St. Louis University, St. Thomas Seminary in Denver, Colorado, and Scarritt Graduate School in Nashville, Tennessee. He is presently teaching at the Institute of Pastoral Studies at Loyola University in Chicago, Illinois.<br />Mary Faulkner has a masters degree in religious education from Scarritt Graduate School, is a director of the Institute of Integrated Healing Arts in Nashville, Tennessee, and a psychotherapist in private practice.<br />This 409-page, large-format, trade paperback has a comprehensive index and multiple appendices, including a glossary of important terms in the Catholic faith, a list of recommended readings, a chart of the symbolic elements within the rituals in the Catholic Church, and a list of all of the Catholic popes. The topics covered in the main text of the book are: (1) What is a Catholic? (2) What are Catholic beliefs? (3) How do Catholics experience God? (4) How do Catholics pray? (5) What is the Catholic identity? (6) The Church's history from the beginning to the present.<br />In the ongoing, excellent tradition of Alpha's Idiot's Guides, this book is extremely well laid out and is written in a clear, friendly style, both of which make it a pleasure to read. As a non-Catholic, my knowledge of Catholicism was sketchy at best before reading this book, and I found this comprehensive introduction to the major aspects of the faith fascinating. The following are topics I found especially interesting: There are different versions of Catholicism in the U.S., in particular, the Irish-, Italian- and Hispanic-Americans each have their own unique traditions. In the recent past, Vatican II revolutionized 400 years of practices and beliefs of the Catholic Church. The authors freely admit (which most sects of Christianity usually won't) the ways in which the ceremonies and traditions of the Catholic church draw upon other ancient traditions, including the Jewish, Greek, Roman and Celtic religions.<br />I highly recommend this book to Catholics as well as non-Catholics who are curious about the history, theology and practices of the Catholic Church..<br />I highly recommend this book to Catholics as well as non-Catholics who are curious about the history, theology and practices of the Catholic Church.	2001-08-13
US	52841535	R34TUGH94CBHCI	1561451266	494779672	Teaching Your Child the Language of Social Success	Books	5	84	91	N	N	Excellent guide for parents with ADD children	Marshall Duke received his Ph.D. in clinical psychology from Indiana University. He is a professor of personality and psychopathology and is chair of Emory University's Department of Psychology in Atlanta. He has published over 50 scholarly articles and co-authored with Stephen Nowicki, Jr. a textbook of abnormal psychology and a guide for parents and teachers, Helping the Child Who Doesn't Fit In.<br />Stephen Nowicki, Jr. received his Ph.D. in clinical psychology from Purdue University. He is a professor of psychology at Emory University. He is the author of over 150 publications and presentations in addition to the books he has co-authored with Dr. Duke.<br />Elisabeth Martin received a Bachelor of Education from the University of Newcastle upon Tyne, England, and her M.Ed. with specialization in Special Education (dyslexia) from the University of Kington upon Thames, England. Ms. Martin has taught learning disabled students at the Dyslexia Institute in England and at several specialty schools in the United States.<br />This 184-page trade paperback is clearly written in an easy to follow style. It provides a list of references, a page of recommended resources, multiple appendices and covers the following topics: (1) What is nonverbal communication? (It is more than just body language, which is only a part of nonverbal communication.) (2) Assessing and teaching nonverbal language to your child at home. (3) Teaching nonverbal language at school.<br />This book is an excellent resource for both parents and teachers, particularly for the two to use to work together as a team to guide special-needs children (in particular those with attention deficit disorder) to improve their nonverbal social skills. These include: facial expressions, use of personal space, touch, gestures, postures, rhythm and timing. This training is vital because when a child's inaccurate nonverbal language conflicts with his verbal message, the people around him will almost always believe nonverbal messages over verbal ones.<br />Very often, special-needs children do not pick up adequate nonverbal skills in the course of everyday life as &quot;normal&quot; children do. This means that consciously teaching them to &quot;speak&quot; and &quot;listen&quot; nonverbally is vital in order to increase their chances for social success (getting along with peers and teachers, making friends), as well as enhancing their feelings of personal competence and self-esteem.<br />I highly recommend this guide both professionally, as a teacher and therapist, and personally, as a parent of two ADD children. I believe any parent, teacher or therapist of special-needs children will find the information it contains invaluable.erbal messages over verbal ones. <br />Very often, special-needs children do not pick up adequate nonverbal skills in the course of everyday life as &quot;normal&quot; children do. This means that consciously teaching them to &quot;speak&quot; and &quot;listen&quot; nonverbally is vital in order to increase their chances for social success (getting along with peers and teachers, making friends), as well as enhancing their feelings of personal competence and self-esteem.<br />I highly recommend this guide both professionally, as a teacher and therapist, and personally, as a parent of two ADD children. I believe any parent, teacher or therapist of special-needs children will find the information it contains invaluable.	2001-08-13
US	52841535	R3IPUQWBD956PU	0312204280	84867597	Never Be Lied to Again: How to Get the Truth In 5 Minutes Or Less In Any Conversation Or Situation	Books	5	13	15	N	Y	Excellent guide for coping with deception	David J. Lieberman is a Ph.D. in psychology who speaks and consults on Neural-Dynamic Analysis, a short-term therapy technique he created. He has also written two other books: Get Anyone to Do Anything and Never Feel Powerless Again, and Instant Analysis.<br />This 205-page book has no index, bibliography or references, but the suggestions Dr. Lieberman offers are for the most part very valid according to other sources I've read discussing deception.<br />Dr. Lieberman writes in a clear, direct, easy-to-understand style, making it enjoyable to learn about all the ways people can lie, cheat and connive. He teaches you how to spot deception through observing body language, contradictions in speech, and the person's psychological profile. He also provides a list of general indicators of deceit and teaches you how to get beyond lies and get the truth out of people.<br />I highly recommend this book for everyone. Lies are something we all encounter every day, and this book can help you avoid their negative effects.	2001-08-13
US	52841535	R1RVJL4RA10VNB	157224108X	4935777	Stop Walking on Eggshells: Taking Your Life Back When Someone You Care About Has Borderline Personality Disorder	Books	5	425	450	N	N	A brilliant analysis of a tragic disorder	Paul T. Mason, M.S., C.P.C., is a program manager of Child/Adolescent Services at St. Luke's Hospital and a psychotherapist in private practice at Psychiatric Services in Racine, Wisconsin. His research on borderline personality disorder (\\"BPD\\") has appeared in the Journal of Clinical Psychology, and he teaches seminars for mental health professionals on the effects of BPD on partners and family members.<br />Randi Kreger is a professional writer and an executive in public relations and marketing. She has collected more than 1,000 stories detailing the devastating experiences of people in close relationship with persons suffering from BPD (\\"BP's\\"). Kreger moderates two e-mail discussion groups for friends and family of BP's on her comprehensive Web site about BPD: [....]<br />Mason and Kreger's carefully written, highly readable book provides a brilliant analysis of a disorder that wreaks enormous havoc. In addition to clarifying what BPD is, they provide crucial survival techniques for those who wish to stay in relationship with the BP's they love.<br />There are extensive references and a list of recommended resources in this 258-page book as well as appendices on the following subjects: coping suggestions for clinicians, tips for BP's who have other BP's in their lives, a summary of causes and treatment of BPD. The topics covered in the main body of the book include: (1) understanding BPD behavior; (2) keeping control of your life while in close association with a BP; (3) resolving special issues, including raising a BP child, distortion campaigns of the BP against you, making decisions about continuing your relationship with the adult BP in your life.<br />The authors state that the central irony of BPD is that \\"people who suffer from it desperately want closeness and intimacy, but the things they do to get it often drive people away from them.\\" Their needs are extremely difficult to meet, because they are so turbulent and irrational.<br />In a profoundly important departure from the militant-environmentalism stance that has engulfed the mental-health establishment for decades, the authors freely admit the existence of children with BPD. In the Freudian tradition, most psychiatrists continue to believe that BPD is caused entirely by poor mothering, with the damage only showing up in adulthood after the destructive childhood has ended. The real truth is, however, that BPD can occur very early in life, and in the most nurturing of families, both of which indicate there is a strong genetic component to this disorder. This vital insight on childhood BPD will bring great comfort to besieged mothers of BP children who are unfairly shamed and stigmatized by mental-health and educational personnel as the \\"cause\\" of their child's condition.<br />I believe this book should be required reading for every psychological and psychiatric training program in the country. It will also bring enormous insight, comfort and encouragement to the friends and families of BP's everywhere.tant departure from the militant-environmentalism stance that has engulfed the mental-health establishment for decades, the authors freely admit the existence of children with BPD. In the Freudian tradition, most psychiatrists continue to believe that BPD is caused entirely by poor mothering, with the damage only showing up in adulthood after the destructive childhood has ended. The real truth is, however, that BPD can occur very early in life, and in the most nurturing of families, both of which indicate there is a strong genetic component to this disorder. This vital insight on childhood BPD will bring great comfort to besieged mothers of BP children who are unfairly shamed and stigmatized by mental-health and educational personnel as the \\"cause\\" of their child's condition.<br />I believe this book should be required reading for every psychological and psychiatric training program in the country. It will also bring enormous insight, comfort and encouragement to the friends and families of BP's everywhere.	2001-08-13
US	52841535	RKSWN2AW9XDFQ	080652216X	312262889	Did You Say Something Susan?: How Any Woman Can Gain Confidence With Assertive Communication	Books	5	18	18	N	N	A wonderful guide on assertiveness training for women	Dr. Paulette Dale is a workshop leader and consultant on assertive communication and the author of five textbooks and numerous articles on the subject.<br />This 196-page book has no index, but it does have a list of references and multiple useful appendices. It covers the following topics: (1) how to be unappealing to users and abusers; (2) using assertive speech and body language; (3) preparing for confrontation; (4) learning how to say no; (5) buying time before responding in a difficult situation; (6) speaking up for yourself and telling someone when their behavior is not acceptable to you; (7) refusing to put up with put downs; (8) speaking up on the job; (9) raising assertive children.<br />Dr. Dale writes in a clear and friendly style which makes it a pleasant task to learn her lessons on how to communicate what you really feel, say no and mean it, speak up for your rights, get what you need on your terms, become confident and articulate, and gain the respect of others.<br />Assertiveness is a very important aspect of self-defense (a multi-layered set of skills I strongly believe every woman should know). This book teaches the first two of five levels of self-defense: establish a strong physical presence, and verbal deterrence. (The other levels are: soft-handed defense, deterrence through physical pain which causes no lasting harm; hard-handed defense, physical strikes which can cause injury but rarely death; and deadly force, physical kicks or blows, or the use of weapons such as guns, which can kill the assailant, and are commonly employed by martial artists, law enforcement officers, and military personnel.)<br />I highly recommend this book to women of all ages, especially young women, who can avoid a lifetime of unnecessary suffering by using this vital information to keep themselves safe and sane.	2001-08-04
US	52841535	R3UIQUI1A8JGK8	1886941343	86208338	What Does Everybody Else Know That I Don't?: Social Skills Help for Adults with Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder	Books	5	55	65	N	N	Excellent guide for AD/HD adults &amp; parents of AD/HD kids	Michele Novotni, Ph.D., has more than 20 years of experience as a psychologist working with children and adults with AD/HD. She is an Assistant Professor in the graduate counseling department of Eastern College, Saint Davids, Pennsylvania. She has also co-authored Adult ADD: A Reader Friendly Guide to Identifying, Understanding and Treating Adult Attention Deficit Disorder. Both her son and her father have AD/HD.<br />This 314-page book has footnotes at the end of each chapter, an index, a bibliography and several useful appendices, including two social skills checklists. The book discusses the importance of social skills, why adults with AD/HD may not have learned all the social skills they need in their childhood, and systematically teaches these missing social skills.<br />This excellent guide is clearly and concisely written. Each chapter ends with a very helpful, gray-highlighted box called &quot;Just the Facts&quot; which lists the major points of the chapter for ready reference.<br />It is true that many of the social skills covered in this book are very basic, like remembering to say, &quot;please&quot; and &quot;thank you&quot; and always saying, &quot;hello&quot; when you enter a room and &quot;goodbye&quot; when you exit. However, Dr. Novotni goes much deeper than this level. For example, she covers the important area of observation of subtle social cues, using &quot;I messages&quot; and conflict resolution techniques, all of which most so-called &quot;normal&quot; adults don't know.<br />I believe this book is useful not just for adults with AD/HD, but for parents of AD/HD children, as well. Dr. Novotni has helped me see in a very complete and concrete way the social skills my two AD/HD teens need to acquire by adulthood.	2001-08-03
US	52841535	R2KCDJKL7JXM2R	1557044155	624982802	The Female Stress Syndrome Survival Guide	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Excellent information on how stress affects women	Georgia Witkin, Ph.D., is an assistant clinical professor of psychiatry, associate director of the Menopause Treatment Program, and director of the Stress Program at the Mt. Sinai School of Medicine in New York City. She also hosts &quot;Beyond the News&quot; on the Fox News Channel and is the weekly lifestyle contributor to its &quot;Fox and Friends&quot; morning program. She is the author of six books on stress and has a private practice in New York City.<br />This 303-page book has an index, a bibliography and a list of useful websites pertaining to stress.<br />Dr. Witkin begins by explaining what stress is in general, discusses in detail the Four D's of the Female Stress Syndrome (disorganization, decision-making difficulties, dependency fantasies, and depression), then provides an excellent overview of the results of the female stress syndrome in these areas of women's lives: (1) Fatigue and weight gain. Long-term stress can cause higher insulin levels, which can lead to fatigue, a craving for caffeine and sugar, and greater storage of body fat. (2) PMS. Premenstrual syndrome symptoms are made worse by stress and PMS can also cause stress. (3) Childbearing. Pregnancy affects the predictability of your life, no matter how wanted the baby is. This can cause stress, as can &quot;fear and unrealistic expectations.&quot; (4) New mothers. Lack of an adequate support system to help with a newborn, postpartum depression, and the &quot;loss of freedom, mobility and choice&quot; all can &quot;cause mixed feelings about parenting and its responsibilities,&quot; which leads to a lot of stress. (5) Menopause. This major physical transition often intersects with equally major life changes, such as children leaving home, aging parents losing their health, and so forth; all of which can lead to stress. (6) Anorexia nervosa, bulimia and irritable bowel syndrome. These syndromes are much more common in women than men and are strongly stress-related. (7) Depression. This mood disorder is a helpless-hopeless state and is twice as common in women as men. Many women respond to stress by becoming depressed. This may be because women are socialized to be helpless, which makes them less likely than men to take charge and change the things in their lives that are causing the stress which has triggered depression. (8) Smoking. Ironically, while many people perceive smoking as lessening anxiety, it actually causes stress due to mini-withdrawal symptoms that happen between cigarettes. (9) Headaches. Women more frequently respond to stress with headaches than men. Many women find that unexpressed anger, sexual needs and dependency issues can create conflicts that activate headaches. (10) Amenorrhea. Stress is one of the most frequent causes of delayed onset of menstruation in young women. (11) Sexual Dysfunction. Female sexual problems are often brought on or made worse by stress. (12) Anxiety. Stress can trigger anxiety and panic attacks.<br />The last part of the book covers recommended aids for reducing stress, including: giving yourself permission to try and reduce the stress in your life; learning to say no; giving yourself freedom to change your mind; laughter;  expecting the best; exercise; relaxation; bibliotherapy (reading self-help books for insight); nurturing yourself; prioritizing the demands on your time; avoiding recreating old, dysfunctional scenarios again and again in your life.<br />The information in this book on female stress is invaluable for women of all ages. In addition, its sections on the effects of stress on children and men can help women understand how stress harms their loved ones. I highly recommend this book to women who are just starting to educate themselves on stress, as well as to those who have already read a lot about stress in general but are not familiar with how stress specifically affects women's health.isorder is a helpless-hopeless state and is twice as common in women as men. Many women respond to stress by becoming depressed. This may be because women are socialized to be helpless, which makes them less likely than men to take charge and change the things in their lives that are causing the stress which has triggered depression. (8) Smoking. Ironically, while many people perceive smoking as lessening anxiety, it actually causes stress due to mini-withdrawal symptoms that happen between cigarettes. (9) Headaches. Women more frequently respond to stress with headaches than men. Many women find that unexpressed anger, sexual needs and dependency issues can create conflicts that activate headaches. (10) Amenorrhea. Stress is one of the most frequent causes of delayed onset of menstruation in young women. (11) Sexual Dysfunction. Female sexual problems are often brought on or made worse by stress. (12) Anxiety. Stress can trigger anxiety and panic attacks.<br />The last part of the book covers recommended aids for reducing stress, including: giving yourself permission to try and reduce the stress in your life; learning to say no; giving yourself freedom to change your mind; laughter;  expecting the best; exercise; relaxation; bibliotherapy (reading self-help books for insight); nurturing yourself; prioritizing the demands on your time; avoiding recreating old, dysfunctional scenarios again and again in your life.<br />The information in this book on female stress is invaluable for women of all ages. In addition, its sections on the effects of stress on children and men can help women understand how stress harms their loved ones. I highly recommend this book to women who are just starting to educate themselves on stress, as well as to those who have already read a lot about stress in general but are not familiar with how stress specifically affects women's health.	2001-08-03
US	52841535	RNZ0KPAQJ5O6T	0312270178	883809032	Get Anyone to Do Anything: Never Feel Powerless Again--With Psychological Secrets to Control and Influence Every Situation	Books	5	254	326	N	N	Scarily effective techniques	David J. Lieberman, Ph.D., holds a degree in psychology and is the creator of Neural-Dynamic Analysis, a short-term therapy technique. He is a speaker and consultant. He has also written two other books: Never Be Lied To Again, and Instant Analysis.<br />This 185-page book has no index, but it does have a bibliography. It is divided into five main sections: (1) how to get people to like you; (2) how to avoid being manipulated and lied to; (3) how to get anyone to do anything; (4) how to win in competitions; (5) how to get the upper hand in difficult situations.<br />Dr. Lieberman writes in a clear, direct, easy-to-understand style. While he doesn't provide any footnotes for the studies he refers to, the suggestions he offers are for the most part very valid according to other sources I've read discussing similar topics.<br />There are plenty of techniques here to try in order to improve personal and professional relationships in which you feel powerless in some way; most are not complicated, and they are very likely to work.<br />However...there is a vital issue lurking behind the idea of getting anyone to do &quot;anything&quot; that I must bring up: the information in this book can just as easily be used for destructive purposes as constructive ones. That is, if you learn the methods it suggests very well, you will become a master at conniving in order to fulfill your needs at other people's expense. There is zero discussion in this book of the need for ethics when using persuasion. In fact, the only value Dr. Lieberman seems to espouse is the complete egocentrism of &quot;looking out for number one&quot; at all times.<br />Further warning: in my opinion, the people who are most likely to devour this book are salespersons since it is very much in the tradition of the bible of sales, How To Win Friends and Influence People. Imagine how much more easily someone who studies Dr. Lieberman's ideas will be able to steamroll the unsuspecting into buying things they don't need or want!<br />I also worry what anti-social types could do with this knowledge. In particular, if a predator were to combine what is contained in the section on getting people to like you and the section on getting people to do what you want, they could greatly increase their chance of &quot;success&quot; at victimizing others without use of violence. In particular, this is a crucial issue in the matter of date rape. In this country, if violence is not used when a man induces a woman to have sex against her will, it is very difficult for her to establish legally that she was raped. Tragically, surrendering to callous manipulation and engaging in emotionally non-consensual sex (sex a woman does not truly want) can destroy her self-esteem and lead to depression. Often so deep, the woman becomes suicidal.<br />In short, a man who &quot;persuades&quot; a woman this way has achieved a sense of personal power by completely destroying the personal power of another human being.<br />Having said all that, I think that realizing how dangerous this information could be in the wrong hands is not a reason to run from this book. On the contrary, it gives a potential reader a strong motivation to buy it: it behooves all of us to not only understand how to use these formulas for healthy purposes, but to know how destructive people could apply them to hurt us and the people we love.t need or want!<br />I also worry what anti-social types could do with this knowledge. In particular, if a predator were to combine what is contained in the section on getting people to like you and the section on getting people to do what you want, they could greatly increase their chance of &quot;success&quot; at victimizing others without use of violence. In particular, this is a crucial issue in the matter of date rape. In this country, if violence is not used when a man induces a woman to have sex against her will, it is very difficult for her to establish legally that she was raped. Tragically, surrendering to callous manipulation and engaging in emotionally non-consensual sex (sex a woman does not truly want) can destroy her self-esteem and lead to depression. Often so deep, the woman becomes suicidal. <br />In short, a man who &quot;persuades&quot; a woman this way has achieved a sense of personal power by completely destroying the personal power of another human being.<br />Having said all that, I think that realizing how dangerous this information could be in the wrong hands is not a reason to run from this book. On the contrary, it gives a potential reader a strong motivation to buy it: it behooves all of us to not only understand how to use these formulas for healthy purposes, but to know how destructive people could apply them to hurt us and the people we love.	2001-08-03
US	52841535	R8RYF4NVQZ02W	0743201558	430284217	The Spark: The Revolutionary 3-Week Fitness Plan That Changes Everything You Know About Exercise, Weight Control, and Health	Books	2	46	63	N	N	Not the revolutionary scheme it claims to be	Dr. Gaesser is a professor of exercise physiology at the University of Virginia. Karla Dougherty is the author and co-author of 32 books on health. Their 256-page book, The Spark, has an index, but no bibliography, footnotes or references of any kind backing up Dr. Gaesser's scientific assertions.<br />Dr. G used to believe that the greatest results from exercise came only with intensive workouts of 30-60 minutes done several times a week, over a long period. He worried that sedentary people couldn't do this and developed a program just for them, testing it on 40 eager men and women, age 32 to 68, for three weeks: (1) Exercise. Fifteen 10-minute sessions per week of: (a) 7-10 sessions of aerobic exercise, (b) 2-4 sessions of strength training; (c) 2-4 sessions of stretches. (2) Diet. Lots of high-high fiber food, including: fruits and vegetables, whole grains and beans. Low protein, with protein coming mostly from beans rather than meat. The diet is also low-fat because Dr. G believes that &quot;dietary fat goes straight into fat cells.&quot; (I was amazed to hear this claim. I had assumed information from the field of endocrinology regarding the nature of fat production in the body had put this hoary truism to rest four or five years ago.)<br />Not surprisingly, everyone in the study got results. Not, in my opinion, because of some revolutionary new insight Dr. G had, but because he wisely focused on the eternal Big Two of health: exercise and diet. =Any= health program that involves giving up junk food, getting off the couch and moving around a few minutes a day will provide strongly noticeable results in increased vigor and weight loss in a matter of weeks.<br />I also disagree with Dr. G's assertion that all that stands in the way of sedentary people committing to working out regularly is boredom, burning lungs, and bothersome scheduling. Bad as these obstacles are, I believe there is a much more enormous boulder in the path of people who sorta, kinda think they oughta exercise: the strong discomfort involved in establishing new, positive habits which replace time-worn, familiar, safe-feeling, negative habits. Dr. G doesn't deal with this issue at all in his book.<br />In addition, I cannot understand how anyone could label 15 exercise sessions a week &quot;convenient.&quot; There is certainly no doubt that this goal is far less convenient than 20 minutes of mild aerobic exercise three times a week. Which is all anyone needs to do to insure basic fitness--a reasonable, non-taxing goal much more tailored to Dr. G's targeted client, someone who, normally, is completely inactive and unfit. There is also nothing easy or convenient about eating a healthy diet if it isn't part of your usual way of life already. And if, as Dr. G asserts in his book, fitness is the end-all and be-all of health (he rightly reports that a fit, fat, middle-aged person is at less risk of heart attack than a sedentary, thin person of that age), why not just stick to one simple thing, getting fit, and leave diet to the nutritionists, which Dr. G obviously is not.<br />Dr. G also doesn't admit that there are multiple variables automatically built into any exercise-diet study such as his that researchers rarely examine as possible factors affecting their study's positive outcomes. Some of these include: (a) The subjects in Dr. G's study, as they are in most health studies, were self-selected volunteers, meaning they were highly motivated to change their lifestyle and willing to work to improve their health. (One of them posting a review here is a graduate nursing student dedicated to health and healing.) There is a large body of medical research indicating that a patient's will to get well has a major effect on the outcome of any healing program he is pursuing. The same can be said for a study-participant's will (motivation) to get healthier affecting the positive outcomes of a diet-exercise regime. Unfortunately, people at home trying out Dr. G's ideas on their own will need even more motivation than Dr. G's enthusiastic study participants. They will have to seek out his book, read it carefully, decide to try out his program all alone, actually begin it, keep it up for three weeks, and evaluate at the end of that time if they want to keep at it indefinitely. That's a heck of a lot to ask of an unmotivated couch-potato. (b) Participants in these types of studies enter a group situation where they are connected to other people, as motivated as they are, who are doing the same things they are to improve their health. Even if the researcher provides no regularly scheduled meetings of the participants as a group, the participants inevitably know of the existence of their fellows and enjoy the comfort and encouragement of being part of a like-minded group. Readers of this book who try out this program will have none of this support. (c) Study participants invariably have regular check-ins with the researcher in charge. Whether or not the researcher gets excited about the participant's progress (which he/she almost inevitably will, because progress is presumably proving the researcher's pet theory), just having this contact with a concerned, involved authority figure is very affirming. People who read this book and try to implement The Spark alone will not enjoy any of this reinforcement.<br />I am actually quite sorry this book isn't the solution it claims to be for motivating discouraged would-be exercisers. Because if such a book could exist, it would fulfill a great need. Unfortunately, in spite of its grandiose claims, The Spark is merely one more redundant health regimen with a catchy name.on their own will need even more motivation than Dr. G's enthusiastic study participants. They will have to seek out his book, read it carefully, decide to try out his program all alone, actually begin it, keep it up for three weeks, and evaluate at the end of that time if they want to keep at it indefinitely. That's a heck of a lot to ask of an unmotivated couch-potato. (b) Participants in these types of studies enter a group situation where they are connected to other people, as motivated as they are, who are doing the same things they are to improve their health. Even if the researcher provides no regularly scheduled meetings of the participants as a group, the participants inevitably know of the existence of their fellows and enjoy the comfort and encouragement of being part of a like-minded group. Readers of this book who try out this program will have none of this support. (c) Study participants invariably have regular check-ins with the researcher in charge. Whether or not the researcher gets excited about the participant's progress (which he/she almost inevitably will, because progress is presumably proving the researcher's pet theory), just having this contact with a concerned, involved authority figure is very affirming. People who read this book and try to implement The Spark alone will not enjoy any of this reinforcement.<br />I am actually quite sorry this book isn't the solution it claims to be for motivating discouraged would-be exercisers. Because if such a book could exist, it would fulfill a great need. Unfortunately, in spite of its grandiose claims, The Spark is merely one more redundant health regimen with a catchy name.	2001-07-30
US	52841535	R3DHTVYU2RCPKG	0898798159	508136701	Dynamic Characters: How to Create Personalities That Keep Readers Captivated	Books	5	73	76	N	N	Extremely useful fiction-writing guide	Nancy Kress is the author of over a dozen books of fiction, including Beggars in Spain, which won both the Hugo and Nebula awards. She is the fiction columnist for Writer's Digest (WD) magazine, and her short fiction frequently appears in Omni magazine. She also teaches fiction-writing classes for universities and writing conferences.<br />I've been a fan of Kress's fiction column in WD for a long time now, and this book is an extended version of her clear, enlightening advice. The topics covered in Dynamic Characters include: (1) the definition and purpose of characters; (2) naming characters; (3) the influence of setting on characterization; (4) how dialogue reveals characters; (5) choosing telling details to describe characters; (6) basing characters on real people; (7) internal dialogue; (8) dreams; (9) villains; (10) unsympathetic protagonists; (11) how plot affects characterization; (12) secondary characters; (13) conflict leading to violence; (14) growth and transformation in characters; (15) basing plot on real-life events; (16) connections between characters, plot and theme; (17) biographical questionnaire for characters.<br />All of these topics are thoroughly covered in a clear, helpful manner. My favorite section of the book is the 14-page character biography form Kress calls an &quot;Intelligence Dossier.&quot; I transcribed its questions into my computer and use it regularly to help me flesh out my characters when I am in the backstory phase.<br />I highly recommend this book not only to brand new fiction writers, but to experienced ones as well. Kress provides an abundance of insights useful to authors of every level of accomplishment.	2001-07-28
US	52841535	R1FWJSA6PVHT87	1559347260	144057181	Nonverbal Communication: Forms and Functions	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Brilliant, thorough analysis of nonverbal communication	Dr. Peter A. Andersen is a distinguished, international scholar from the San Diego State University (SDSU) School of Communication. As author of over 100 book chapters, research papers, and journal articles, he is one of the most published scholars in the field of communication. Dr. Andersen has consulted for dozens of school districts, child-care centers, health organizations, political campaigns, universities, and business organizations. He has served as first Vice President of the Western Communication Association, as editor of the Western Journal of Communication, and as first Director of Research for the Japan-U.S. Telecommunications Research Institute, a program of SDSU's International Center. He teaches courses in many areas of interpersonal and mass communication, including a course entitled, &quot;Communication and Virtual Reality.&quot;<br />Dr. Andersen's book, Nonverbal Communication, has been used for courses in that subject on university campuses all across the country. It is held in high esteem by his fellow communication professors as an accurate, authoritative overview of the major, scientific findings in this area of study.<br />But this book isn't only for current or past college students who are accustomed to wading through challenging textbooks. Dr. Andersen's writing is amazingly clear, direct and accessible for such a comprehensive, impeccably documented scholarly work.<br />This 394-page, large-format trade paperback has 40 pages of references (a gold mine of further-information possibilities). There is also an 8-page index to help you quickly search out specific issues that interest you most.<br />The topics covered in the book regarding nonverbal communication (NVC) include the following: the definition of NVC and how it is different from verbal communication; how the body is involved (facial expressions, hand and arm gestures, eye contact and movements, personal space, touching); the impact of environment (seating, temperature, color, lighting, sound); timing and speed; cultural cues; gender and sex; emotions and stress; immediacy (friendly, warm, involving actions); intimate relationships; persuasion, deception, and power.<br />Here is a sampling of quotes from the book:<br />&quot;A basic set of at least six facial expressionsare innate, universal, and carry the same [essential] meaning throughout the world.&quot; This suggests that &quot;basic expressions are not learned but are part of an innate [genetic/biological] system of communication.&quot; These &quot;six basic facial expressions are pancultural and universal: happiness, sadness, fear, anger, disgust and surprise.&quot;<br />&quot;Smiling is primarily a function of other people's presence and not [one's own] internal emotional states.The more involved people are with another person, the more they smile [around them].&quot;<br />&quot;Becoming an adult [in essentially all cultures] requires manifesting fewer outward emotions, particularly for men. Unfortunately, failing to express emotions [can] cause an increase instress and disease.&quot;<br />&quot;Emotions evolved as universal communication systems that promote the individual and group survival of human beings.Throughout the ages, the expression and recognition of emotions have provided the human species with a unique survival advantage.Emotional communication permits most people to adjust to the behavior of others to ensure that cooperation rather than conflictual relationships are the norm.&quot;<br />In sum, anyone working in a field involving lots of people contact (sales, human resources, childcare, teaching, healthcare, counseling, etc.) will find this book an extremely informative read. I give it an unqualified thumbs up (a well-known hand gesture of NVC signifying enthusiastic approval &lt;G&gt;).lighting, sound); timing and speed; cultural cues; gender and sex; emotions and stress; immediacy (friendly, warm, involving actions); intimate relationships; persuasion, deception, and power.<br />Here is a sampling of quotes from the book:<br />&quot;A basic set of at least six facial expressionsare innate, universal, and carry the same [essential] meaning throughout the world.&quot; This suggests that &quot;basic expressions are not learned but are part of an innate [genetic/biological] system of communication.&quot; These &quot;six basic facial expressions are pancultural and universal: happiness, sadness, fear, anger, disgust and surprise.&quot;<br />&quot;Smiling is primarily a function of other people's presence and not [one's own] internal emotional states.The more involved people are with another person, the more they smile [around them].&quot;<br />&quot;Becoming an adult [in essentially all cultures] requires manifesting fewer outward emotions, particularly for men. Unfortunately, failing to express emotions [can] cause an increase instress and disease.&quot;<br />&quot;Emotions evolved as universal communication systems that promote the individual and group survival of human beings.Throughout the ages, the expression and recognition of emotions have provided the human species with a unique survival advantage.Emotional communication permits most people to adjust to the behavior of others to ensure that cooperation rather than conflictual relationships are the norm.&quot;<br />In sum, anyone working in a field involving lots of people contact (sales, human resources, childcare, teaching, healthcare, counseling, etc.) will find this book an extremely informative read. I give it an unqualified thumbs up (a well-known hand gesture of NVC signifying enthusiastic approval &lt;G&gt;).	2001-07-28
US	52841535	RH997EHTOR0DJ	0898799236	714087416	You Can Write a Cookbook	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Fun, informative guide to cookbook writing	J. Kevin &quot;Doc&quot; Wolfe is the author of three cookbooks, host of a radio food show, and a lecturer and consultant on cooking.<br />Mr. Wolfe firmly believes that cookbook writing should be first-rate. It is a given, he says, that you must provide your audience with excellent recipes. But beyond that, what really makes a cookbook special is when you as author put &quot;something of yourself in your recipes.&quot;<br />He has certainly followed his own advice in creating this how-to on cookbook writing. A breezy, personal tone spices up his writing, making this guide as entertaining as it is informative.<br />The following topics are covered thoroughly in You Can Write a Cookbook: the purpose of a cookbook, types of cookbooks, the ingredients of a good cookbook, how to write a recipe, finding a theme for your cookbook, organizing the recipes in your cookbook, creating an appealing layout for your cookbook, selling your book to a publisher, going the self-publishing route, and promoting your book. There is an excellent index and multiple appendices, including: recommended books, promotion, media etiquette, media connections, and a glossary of publishing terms.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone who has ever thought of writing a cookbook for any reason, whether as a fundraiser for your local church or civic group or with the hope of becoming the next Julia Child. Cooking hobbyists like myself, who gleefully putter about devising their own recipes, will find this book very useful, too. After reading Mr. Wolfe's advice, I have gotten a lot better about recording the exact measurements of the various ingredients of my grand experiments--a big help when you are trying to figure out what worked and what didn't in a new recipe. In addition, I believe this book will intrigue people who, though having no desire to write cookbook themselves, get a lot of pleasure out of reading and using them. They may be very interested to hear the many careful steps involved in the creation of their favorite cookbooks.in the creation of their favorite cookbooks.	2001-07-27
US	52841535	R4DSMLX2LNCKC	0316303089	81780699	Talk Is Not Enough: How Psychotherapy Really Works	Books	5	41	44	N	N	An outstanding overview of the field of psychotherapy	Dr. Gaylin is Clinical Professor of Psychiatry at Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons and cofounder of the Hastings Center, a distinguished institute for the study of ethical issues in the life sciences. For more than 30 years he has been a leading theoretician, educator and practitioner in the field of psychotherapy and psychoanalysis.<br />As a person with a background in education and counseling psychology, I found this book a fascinating and very useful overview of trends in the field of psychotherapy. I believe it would very likely be interesting and relevant to any practicing or potential psychotherapist. It also could be helpful to lay persons who are considering getting therapy, are presently seeing a therapist, or have seen one in the past. Reading this book could assist them in deciding what their choices are for therapeutic techniques.<br />The following are some of the issues in psychotherapy this book discusses: (1) the significance of patient slips of the tongue, forgetting, &quot;accidents&quot; and lateness; (2) free association; (3) transference and countertransference; (4) dreams and fantasies; (5) motivation; (6) psychodynamic principle; (7) the developmental, sequential nature of behavior; (8) the unconscious; (9) human irrationality; (10) perceptual psychology; (11) defense mechanisms (healthy vs. unhealthy); (12) neurosis and catharsis; (13) guilt and shame; (14) insight therapy, in particular, the fact that insight in and of itself is rarely a transforming event; (15) neurosis; (16) avoidance; (17) self-fulfilling prophecy; (18) delusions and paranoia; (19) deprivation; (20) the ego-dystonic patient (his symptom is not part of his identity; it is a foreign body he wants removed, which makes him easier to help); (21) the ego-syntonic patient (harder to heal because the therapist must &quot;prove&quot; to him that his symptom is a foreign body, that is, help him become ego-dystonic, before healing can begin); (22) libido theory and its successors; (23) Freudian analysis; (24) hysteric and obsessive personality types; (25) the importance of helping the patient see what is sick and what is healthy; (26) nondirective therapy, in which the patient, not the therapist, chooses the subject for discussion; (27) behaviorism; (28) why therapists have traditionally avoided giving advice; (29) why the patient must have the will to change and the courage to act in order to heal; (30) the roots of passivity; (31) self-destructive behavior; (32) therapy as an art rather than a hard science; (33) therapy as a means to not only treat mental illness, but to understand human behavior in general.successors; (23) Freudian analysis; (24) hysteric and obsessive personality types; (25) the importance of helping the patient see what is sick and what is healthy; (26) nondirective therapy, in which the patient, not the therapist, chooses the subject for discussion; (27) behaviorism; (28) why therapists have traditionally avoided giving advice; (29) why the patient must have the will to change and the courage to act in order to heal; (30) the roots of passivity; (31) self-destructive behavior; (32) therapy as an art rather than a hard science; (33) therapy as a means to not only treat mental illness, but to understand human behavior in general.	2001-07-26
US	52841535	R2QTJAK3E23JVG	0898798248	408290453	You Can Write Greeting Cards	Books	5	78	79	N	N	Terrifically thorough book on writing greeting cards!	Karen Ann Moore has been a professional greeting card writer and editor for 20 years. She has worked for American Greetings Corporation, headed her own studio for greeting-card writing, and served as a Creative Director for Gibson Greetings, Inc. She holds a masters degree in education and is a frequent speaker at writing conferences. She has published over 2000 greeting cards in her career.<br />You Can Write Greeting Cards is a trade paperback and is well laid out and easy to read. The topics it covers are: (1) the greeting card industry of yesterday, today and tomorrow; (2) deciding if this kind of writing is for you; (3) how to develop great ideas so you can take them to market; (4) whether to write in rhyme or not; (5) how to write cards with a light, whimsical style; (6) today's approaches to humor and how to develop humorous card ideas; (7) hints on how to market your work; (8) exercises to develop your skills at writing greeting cards.<br />The author is very hopeful about the possibilities for work in the greeting card business. She states: &quot;Greeting card publishers have a great need for creative input from talented writers...because their needs continue to change.&quot; The industry is very open to freelancers. The author states that &quot;the best greeting cards are written by people with a variety of backgrounds and interests.&quot; You need to understand people more than you need a college degree. If you are naturally observant, intuitive, a good communicator, funny or clever, you've probably got what it takes to succeed at writing greeting cards.<br />Absolutely everything you need to know about this kind of writing is contained in this terrifically thorough book. If you or anyone you know has ever thought about this kind of writing, this book is a must. Highly recommended.	2001-07-26
US	52841535	R2WFM15QF2PYVS	0425166791	661794888	Undoing Depression: What Therapy Doesn't Teach You and Medication Can't Give You	Books	5	292	302	N	N	Brilliantly insightful book!	Dr. O'Connor served for 14 years as executive director of the Northwest Center for Family Service and Mental Health, a private, nonprofit mental health clinic in Litchfield County, Connecticut, overseeing the work of twenty mental health professionals in treating almost a thousand patients per year. He is a practicing psychotherapist, with offices in Canaan, Connecticut, and New York City. ....In his biography on this site, he states that he believes \\"depression can never be fully grasped by mental health professionals who have not experienced it.\\" In Dr. O'Connor's case, as a therapist, he has a unique and powerful perspective because he is the son of a depressive who committed suicide, has suffered depression himself, and applied the insights presented in his book in his own life to heal his depression.<br />This book is very well-written, clear and accessible even when the doctor is talking about complex, professional issues in the mental health community. There is a thorough index and plentiful endnotes, as well as a very complete bibliography of recommended reading. The four sections of the book listed in the table of contents are: What We Know about Depression; Learning New Skills; Putting the Skills to Work; A New Synthesis.<br />I believe this is one of the top books ever written on depression. If you only have time to read one book on the subject, I would heartily recommend you make it this one, because it is utterly brilliant. I personally believe that one of the most profound things a theorist can do is synthesize seemingly opposing or unlike ideas, pulling them together in a comprehensible whole, which is what Dr. O'Connor does so very, very well here. He has thoroughly surveyed the existing information on depression, made clear what we know and don't know about it, and what most often works, or doesn't work, to treat depression.<br />In this regard, his discussion of why we don't have a comprehensive theory of depression at the present time is wonderful. Within this discussion he states: \\"The Freudian theory of human functioning has been on its last legs for some time, and we wait for a new theory, a new paradigm, to replace it&#8230;.[A]lthough there is a wish to achieve a biochemical theory of human behavior, our current knowledge leaves us far from it; and if we had it, it would not answer our most interesting human questions.\\"<br />He covers the effects of trauma on depression and the biological basis of mental illnesses such as schizophrenia, manic depression and major depression and how this conception removes stigma. Then he asserts that though symptoms of mental illness are \\"biochemically mediated, that doesn't make [them inevitably] biochemically caused&#8230;.\\" He is not anti-medication, but he states that medications can't tell us how to raise healthy children, make difficult decisions, or help us find meaning in life. He believes that \\"both nature and nurture play a part in the development of depression\\"--and in its cure. He states that \\"in depression, you use medication to help alleviate the pain and suffering, but the patient may still feel a lack of confidence, be painfully shy, lack assertive skills, have a distorted self-image&#8230;procrastinate&#8230;be stuck in a loveless marriage or a dead-end job. The patient must address these kinds of issues&#8230;or else he may suffer less but still not be part of life.\\"<br />It is this issue that the book addresses very thoroughly: how to engage in a deliberate skill-building program in conjunction with medication (or without it if you are one of the unlucky, sizeable percentage of depression sufferers diagnosed with \\"resistant depression\\" because antidepressants do not work for you). In his skill-building program, the author covers emotions, behavior, thinking, relationships, the self, and aids to recovery. He then discusses how to put these new skills to work on the job, in intimate relationships and in the community at large.<br />An extremely thorough, comprehensive, invaluable guide!, comprehensive, invaluable guide!	2001-07-23
US	52841535	RUA1BVEULON05	1570715114	925364117	The Truth About Lying: How to Spot a Lie and Protect Yourself from Deception	Books	4	28	35	N	N	Excellent guide on the motivation and behavior of liars	The Truth About Lying is a short, easy-to-read, 60,000-word layman's guide to lying written by Stan B. Walters. Mr. Walters's company provides interview and interrogation services and training to business, industry, and law enforcement agencies in the U.S. He is an adjunct instructor at Eastern Kentucky University College of Law Enforcement and an adjunct instructor for the Department of Defense Polygraph Association. In short, he is an expert on lying, and it shows in his book.<br />There is a very good index in the book, a truly excellent bibliography (should you care to pursue the topic of lying further), and the artistic layout and paper quality are absolutely gorgeous, making the book a pleasure to look at and hold. The topics listed in the table of contents include: What's Behind a Lie, Guidelines and Principles, Verbal Communication, Nonverbal Communication, Response Behavior, Using What You Know.<br />I would highly recommend this book to just about anyone, because there is probably not a person alive who has never experienced the negative consequences of lies. As Mr. Walters states: &quot;Can you afford to make a critical decision, or even a simple day-to-day decision, only to find out later that it was based on false or misleading information?&quot;<br />In addition to providing very valuable information on how to read the body language of liars, Mr. Walters puts lies in a social context. He states that it is important to figure out both when we are being lied to, and if there is anything in our own behavior that might encourage others to lie to us. For example, many of us are afraid to hear the truth and would &quot;much rather hear subtle distortions of the truth rather than...cold, hard reality.&quot;<br />In this regard, I find the section on relationships particularly insightful. The people we deal with in daily life are discussed in terms of four general categories, &quot;intimate, personal, social and public.&quot; Each group operates by a different set of rules which leads to different expectations, types of lies, and degree of seriousness of the effects of lies we encounter, depending on how emotionally close we are to a given person.<br />As well as recommending this book to a general audience, I also strongly recommend it to fiction writers. All types of characters, including heroes, villains, allies and antagonists, may have a reason to lie in a given story, whether it is drama or comedy, and it is important to understand the how and why of their lies (what goals and motivations bring them about). Mr. Walters states, &quot;By being deceptive, a person accomplishes some goal, whether it be to gain a personal benefit, to avoid some form of unattractive consequence, or to protect himself or someone else in a situation that appears to be unpredictable....The more that a person perceives is at stake, the more pressure he may feel to choose to be deceitful.&quot; Since the hallmark of good fiction is for the protagonist to have a lot at stake, it behooves writers to be well-versed in the subject of high-stakes lying. This book provides that information.<br />You may wonder with all this praise I am heaping on Mr. Walters why I did not give his book a solid 5-star rating.  I did not because, unfortunately, though the author is obviously very knowledgeable, his writing could benefit from the aid of a good editor. He is extremely redundant, with the same ideas and phrases repeated over and over throughout the book, sometimes intentionally (&quot;as I said before&quot;) and sometimes not. If you can get past this problem, the information itself is very useful.nt set of rules which leads to different expectations, types of lies, and degree of seriousness of the effects of lies we encounter, depending on how emotionally close we are to a given person.<br />As well as recommending this book to a general audience, I also strongly recommend it to fiction writers. All types of characters, including heroes, villains, allies and antagonists, may have a reason to lie in a given story, whether it is drama or comedy, and it is important to understand the how and why of their lies (what goals and motivations bring them about). Mr. Walters states, &quot;By being deceptive, a person accomplishes some goal, whether it be to gain a personal benefit, to avoid some form of unattractive consequence, or to protect himself or someone else in a situation that appears to be unpredictable....The more that a person perceives is at stake, the more pressure he may feel to choose to be deceitful.&quot; Since the hallmark of good fiction is for the protagonist to have a lot at stake, it behooves writers to be well-versed in the subject of high-stakes lying. This book provides that information.<br />You may wonder with all this praise I am heaping on Mr. Walters why I did not give his book a solid 5-star rating.  I did not because, unfortunately, though the author is obviously very knowledgeable, his writing could benefit from the aid of a good editor. He is extremely redundant, with the same ideas and phrases repeated over and over throughout the book, sometimes intentionally (&quot;as I said before&quot;) and sometimes not. If you can get past this problem, the information itself is very useful.	2001-07-23
US	52841535	R169WUP2CMHA8T	0030180236	669518223	Nonverbal Communication in Human Interaction	Books	5	23	36	N	N	Classic work in the field of nonverbal communication	Dr. Knapp has been a distinguished scholar in the field of communication for the past 35 years. This is a very small sampling of his honors: He is a Fellow of the International Communication Association and has served as its President. He received the Distinguished Scholar Award from the Speech Communication Association in l993 and served as President of that association in l989-90. Dr. Knapp is the author of many articles and several books besides this one, including: Interpersonal Communication and Human Relationships (with A. Vangelisti) and Handbook of Interpersonal Communication (with G. Miller). Dr. Knapp has acted as consultant, lecturer, and trainer for over fifty different business organizations, voluntary groups, and government agencies. He is currently a Professor in the Communication Department at the University of Texas at Austin. ...<br />Dr. Hall has also been a well-respected scholar for over 20 years. She obtained her Ph.D. at Harvard and is a professor in the Department of Psychology at Northeastern University in Boston, Massachusetts, where she teaches social-personality psychology, interpersonal and nonverbal communication, gender differences and health psychology. She has published many scholarly articles and books on the subject of nonverbal communication...<br />Nonverbal Communication in Human Interaction is a textbook used in communication and psychology departments at universities all over the country. It is considered a classic work in the field of nonverbal communication. Whether you are just beginning to read about this topic or you have studied it extensively, this book will be useful to you. There is an index, a comprehensive table of contents, extensive footnotes and lists of further readings on this subject at the end of every chapter.<br />In short, if you read this book, you can be sure that you have gained thoroughly accurate, up-to-date and comprehensive information on the subject of nonverbal communication. I cannot recommend it highly enough.highly enough.	2001-07-23
US	52841535	R2IDYPGU5BYFEX	0380813033	688163047	The Good Enough Child: How to Have an Imperfect Family and Be Perfectly Satisfied	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Excellent, insightful parenting guide.	Brad Sachs, Ph.D., is a family psychologist, founder and director of the Father Center and author of numerous articles and books. His website is .... His book is well-written and accessible with a very thorough index and table of contents. However, he does not provide a list of resources or recommended books, which can often be a useful addition to a book like this.<br />I think the premiere concept in this book--it is completely brilliant and for itself alone is worth the price of admission--is the section on forgiving. In it, the author states, \\"In a balanced partnership between two people, there will be an ebb and flow between giving and getting that evens out over time and creates a sense of relationship balance.\\" He labels this the \\"process of constructive entitlement,\\" a normal and healthy expectation in relationships that when you give you get something back. Unfortunately, our search for relationship balance can become destructive when we unconsciously insist our children \\"redress imbalances that =did not= originate with them and may not even have anything to do with them.\\" The author lists multiple categories of unspoken, unconscious expectations parents frequently have which can prevent us from seeing out child as \\"good enough.\\" These include the following:<br />(1) Having a child as a kind of \\"offering\\" to our own parents, \\"as if the child were a gift or repayment on a loan.\\" Love and respect for the grandparents is forced on our child, rather than allowing it to happen naturally. Because this rarely works, it can cause pain to all involved. (2) Having a child to replace someone very close to us who died, including another child of our own or a close family member. Since \\"no person can every truly replace another,\\" this dumps an enormous burden on the replacement child, often leaving him/her feeling inadequate and unloved for the very one he or she is. (3) Having a child as a way of reliving a wonderful childhood or vicariously experiencing through our child the wonderful childhood we did not have. Unfortunately, giving our child what we had or wished we could have had may not be well received by our child. His/her personality may be very different from ours, and our \\"meat\\" may be his/her \\"poison.\\" (4) Having a child to make up for our past failures. Sadly, in this case, the child is often expected to live up to a far higher standard than the parent ever managed, including in the present, and the talents and desires of the child are ignored or scorned in favor of the parent's agenda. (5) Having a child to heal a failing marriage. Too often the reality of the intense demands of parenting puts the final nail in the coffin of a weak marriage rather than healing it. (6) Having a child to purify or decontaminate ourselves. Whatever part of us we have hated and disowned, including our very human need to be loved and nurtured--which makes us frighteningly vulnerable--we often hate and disown in our child.<br />Once we figure out what category we fall into (most of us fall into at least one, sometimes more), we are then instructed how to forgive our child for not being the \\"desirable fantasy child\\" that we expected to have, and instead accept the \\"undesirable reality child\\" who has often \\"disrupted\\" the \\"equilibrium\\" of our lives. We can then stop forcing our child to live up to agreements he or she never made (agreements to fulfill any or all of the above fantasy expectations).<br />Throughout the book, the author provides concrete exercises to help the reader implement his suggestions. Some of these include relaxing breathing, visualizing, making tapes to listen to, and thinking or writing about specific concerns. All of these exercises are provided to allow us to become aware of what we are actually thinking and feeling in relation to our children, rather than relating to them in an automatic, unthinking, mutually painful ways.hild the wonderful childhood we did not have. Unfortunately, giving our child what we had or wished we could have had may not be well received by our child. His/her personality may be very different from ours, and our \\"meat\\" may be his/her \\"poison.\\" (4) Having a child to make up for our past failures. Sadly, in this case, the child is often expected to live up to a far higher standard than the parent ever managed, including in the present, and the talents and desires of the child are ignored or scorned in favor of the parent's agenda. (5) Having a child to heal a failing marriage. Too often the reality of the intense demands of parenting puts the final nail in the coffin of a weak marriage rather than healing it. (6) Having a child to purify or decontaminate ourselves. Whatever part of us we have hated and disowned, including our very human need to be loved and nurtured--which makes us frighteningly vulnerable--we often hate and disown in our child. <br />Once we figure out what category we fall into (most of us fall into at least one, sometimes more), we are then instructed how to forgive our child for not being the \\"desirable fantasy child\\" that we expected to have, and instead accept the \\"undesirable reality child\\" who has often \\"disrupted\\" the \\"equilibrium\\" of our lives. We can then stop forcing our child to live up to agreements he or she never made (agreements to fulfill any or all of the above fantasy expectations).<br />Throughout the book, the author provides concrete exercises to help the reader implement his suggestions. Some of these include relaxing breathing, visualizing, making tapes to listen to, and thinking or writing about specific concerns. All of these exercises are provided to allow us to become aware of what we are actually thinking and feeling in relation to our children, rather than relating to them in an automatic, unthinking, mutually painful ways.	2001-07-23
US	52841535	RKJVF1BT569MR	0373168438	819683932	Who Gets to Marry Max? (Harlequin American Romance, No. 843)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Outstanding, emotionally intense read.	This is one of the best romances of any genre I've read this year, and by far the best short contemporary romance I've read in a couple of years. I'm always looking for an intense emotional connection between the hero and heroine in a romance, and this book has that in spades. Max is a wonderful hero: powerful and magnetic, generous and protective of his family and friends, and sexy as heck! I'm definitely going to be looking for other titles by this talented author!	2000-12-08
US	52841535	RWI5UNJK9L001	0684850508	285732654	Secrets to Lasting Love: Uncovering the Keys to Life-Long Intimacy	Books	4	29	32	N	N	Valuable insights for all close relationships	The author of this book is a therapist with decades of experience and a successful 35-year marriage. His book is written in a friendly, accessible style. Unfortunately, his informality extends to the lack of an index, list  of references, or resource list. It is important to note that, though the  author does not spell this out, the book is clearly aimed at couples whose  marriages are suffering from relatively mild interpersonal emotional  neglect due to passivity and/or passive-aggression. I do not believe the  advice in this book would be helpful for couples enduring traumas such as  entrenched, extensive verbal abuse, physical violence, addictions, or  mental illness.<br />The aspect of this book I am most impressed with is the  framework for Smalley's advice, five levels of communication involved in  achieving intimacy: (1) Sharing cliches. The meaningless chatter strangers  exchange presents zero emotional risk to those engaged in it.  (2) Sharing  facts. Stating bald facts about surface events in your life or the lives of  others involves the slight risk of getting the facts wrong and being  challenged on it. Note: Smalley does not go into the complicated scenario  of sharing explosive, secret facts, which can involve an enormous amount of  risk. (3) Sharing opinions. Stating individual opinions, concerns and  expectations results in greater emotional risk than cliches or  (non-explosive) facts because opinions can be criticized--and very likely  will be if the opinion is critical of the person it is offered to. (4)  Sharing significant feelings. Offering one's feelings, especially one's  deepest, truest feelings, brings high risk because we are hoping to be  listened to and valued, but we may be rejected and invalidated instead. (5)  Sharing needs. Smalley sees sharing personal and relationship needs as more  risky than sharing feelings. He offers a simple personality typology as an  aid to couples in realizing that a good portion of their conflict may be  due to them having very different personalities. (By the way, if this  subject interests you, search Amazon for the topic &quot;Myers-Briggs&quot;  and really have some fun.) Smalley believes that the solution to dealing  with the conflicts inevitably arising out of differing personalities is  &quot;honoring.&quot; He defines this as not only respecting your partner's  differences, but treasuring them, and committing yourself to making your  partner the number one priority in your life.<br />Over the course of the  book, the author offers illustrative examples of ways in which couples can  become trapped in the communication of strangers and/or casual  acquaintances. He states that the door to sharing significant feelings and  needs, the realm of true intimacy, is the conflict caused by sharing  opinions. He offers advice on how to move safely through this phase by  using techniques which communicate &quot;honoring.&quot; He believes the  latter builds enough trust to permit the next two levels of risk, sharing  feelings and needs.<br />In my opinion, the following relationships are most  likely to find this book useful: (1) Troubled marriages. If your marriage  is &quot;merely&quot; suffering from interpersonal emotional neglect, and  underneath all the problems both of you retain goodwill to each other and a  strong desire to save your marriage through hard work, I believe this book  would be a good adjunct to ongoing marriage counseling. If your therapist  doesn't know about this book, you could take it to him/her and ask to work  from it as a couple doing weekly &quot;homework&quot; from it assigned and  encouraged by the counselor to help you improve communication in order to  gain greater intimacy. (2) New couples. This book can teach couples who are  moving toward commitment, who are engaged, or very early in marriage what  kind of communication they need to develop, from the start, to have  consistent, long-term intimacy. But only IF the pair reads it together and  both agree they want to communicate like this. Intimacy is not a one-sided  affair. (3) Healthy marriages. People who have excellent relationships  already can learn from this book to be more conscious about what they are  doing that works so they will be sure to keep on doing it. (4) Friendships.  If you are wondering why you feel alienated from or constantly hurt by a  certain &quot;very good friend&quot; of yours, this book can help you find  out why. It can also help you realize what kind of people you'd like to  choose as intimate friends in the future.<br />Final recommendation: If you  find this book helpful, you may also appreciate a fabulous book on healing  emotional unavailability in men (most of Smalley's emotionally unavailable  clients are men). It is called In the Company of Men: A New Approach to  Healing for Husbands, Fathers, &amp; Friends, by Marvin Allen.her and  both agree they want to communicate like this. Intimacy is not a one-sided  affair. (3) Healthy marriages. People who have excellent relationships  already can learn from this book to be more conscious about what they are  doing that works so they will be sure to keep on doing it. (4) Friendships.  If you are wondering why you feel alienated from or constantly hurt by a  certain &quot;very good friend&quot; of yours, this book can help you find  out why. It can also help you realize what kind of people you'd like to  choose as intimate friends in the future. <br />Final recommendation: If you  find this book helpful, you may also appreciate a fabulous book on healing  emotional unavailability in men (most of Smalley's emotionally unavailable  clients are men). It is called In the Company of Men: A New Approach to  Healing for Husbands, Fathers, &amp; Friends, by Marvin Allen.	2000-07-07
US	52841535	R16S15QF6I5TPZ	0062716123	864009723	Slow Burn: Burn Fat Faster by Exercising Slower	Books	5	136	149	N	N	Utterly fascinating read!	Mittleman's book makes an outstanding contribution to health and fitness for beginners and old-timers alike by presenting a profound insight--the way to health is not paved with suffering, but ongoing, daily joy. I have  for years now subscribed to an &quot;easy does it&quot; philosophy like  Mittleman's, an approach to movement which emphasizes exercise as pleasure,  not pain. Like Mittleman, over the past 25-30 years, I have been exposed to  countless, &quot;no pain, no gain&quot; thinkers in the world of fitness.  And, like him, I've seen far too many people hurt themselves, sometimes  permanently, by enforcing on themselves this attitude.<br />Mittleman does an  outstanding job of describing what it looks like to have a  &quot;process-oriented&quot; approach to the body, both in achieving basic  health and establishing a productive, exercise routine. This is defined as  being &quot;in the moment,&quot; fully experiencing where you are right now  with each and every workout. Not living for some future moment when you are  done working out and have reached some (often mythical) goal. I agree  heartily with that and also with Mittleman's suggestion that we treat our  bodies as our &quot;partners.&quot; I have taken this approach for about 20  years. It is an amazing (and ongoing) journey working through the  socialization we receive in the West to distrust our bodies as our enemies.  We are trained to either be terrified of our bodies (when they do something  &quot;mysterious,&quot; such as getting ill or injured), or to treat our  bodies like our personal slave, to be subjected to our whim (either harsh  workout regimes or used to gain fleeting pleasure through various  compulsions and addictions).<br />Mittleman is from California, and, having  lived there myself over 20 years (not presently, alas), a Mecca of  alternative medicine, I was very familiar with various alternative healing  modalities Mittleman proposes in his book. I was particularly happy that he  reminded me of kinesiology (&quot;muscle testing&quot;), a concrete way of  asking your body what it wants which, like him, I learned about first from  a chiropractor. I hadn't used the technique in a while, but I tested it out  on some running shoes and some supplements I had just bought the day I read  the book and was happy to find my body approved of them!<br />I was  interested to note that Mittleman eats and recommends a diet very similar  to the Atkins diet, what Atkins himself eats, primarily protein and  vegetables. This is a diet that takes a while for some of us to break into.  Like Mittleman, I have been in the past a vegetarian (for 10 years from age  19-29), and most of my adult life bought into the belief first perpetuated  among vegetarians in the early 70s and, later, Nathan Pritikin in the 80s,  that protein is &quot;satan.&quot; Years of too little protein left me  seriously protein deficient, and going on a &quot;protein-sufficient&quot;  diet, the Zone, in 1996 immediately ended 7 years of chronic fatigue in one  fell swoop, never to return. For me, the Zone, however, was ultimately not  enough, because it allowed a lot of fudging in the sugar-consumption  department. Six months ago I switched to the Atkins diet, and have noted  additional improvement in my general health and well-being eating only  vegetables and some fruits for my carb consumption.<br />Mittleman is a real  advocate of eating fish, a truly high-quality protein rich in important  fats. Though he voices a concern I share about the inability to control  what you are getting with fish (unlike beef, chicken, eggs and dairy, which  you can get organic) because of the terrible pollution of streams, rivers  and oceans today, Mittleman has decided for himself that the benefits of  fish outweigh the risks of toxic pollution. He consumes it as his virtually  exclusive protein source. As for myself, after spending well over $10,000  getting all the mercury fillings out of my mouth severalyears ago, I've  strongly hesitated about eating fish as frequently as Mittleman does for  fear of more heavy metal contamination. If that is not a concern of yours,  you may well enjoy trying out Mittleman's suggestion of making fish your  main protein source.<br />Mittleman has an interesting section on how he has  experimented with his clients applying the theories of blood type and diet.  I found it interesting that he is a Type O (as am I) and that Type O's  naturally enjoy extensive, vigorous exercise, which is very true for me. I  was also delighted to be lumped in as a marathoner type as one who  exercises more than 3 hours a week. During the past few years I have  stopped going to a gym and have worked out on my own, enjoying daily  exercise sessions of walking alone alternated with walking plus lifting  light weights, each session 1-3 hours, with an average of 2 hours. Being by  myself in this process, I have occasionally slipped into a  non-self-approving mindset that this is all &quot;nothing&quot; because it  is so entirely effortless and simple--and feels so darn good. Mittleman  reminds me in his book that this is the way it is meant to be.<br />One of my  favorite statements from Mittleman is on what happened to him when he  stopped eating high-carb, low-fat around 1986 (p. 214): &quot;When I first  started competing in multiday events, I viewed meal breaks as a welcome  relief from an otherwise tedious and austere day. Food is instant  gratification in a world devoid of pleasure; it exists only to provide me  with immediate energy and pleasure and enough of an incentive to keep me  going until my next meal break. Now, after changing my nutrition strategies  to rely more on a balanced approach to eating, not just on carbohydrates  for energy, I've come to recognize that moving itself is what I crave--not  the eating. I feel as if I can move continuously, effortless, and forever.  Food is now the means to an end, not an end in and of itself....In essence,  my relationship to food has flipped-flopped. Eating is no longer the reward  for continuously moving; being able to continuously move is the reward for  eating right.&quot; I love this quote. I have it posted on the wall where I  can see it when I exercise to remind me of what I have experienced  personally, the utter joy of feeling when you exercise that you could go on  forever. Sometimes it isn't enough to experience something--we need to be  validated, too, that we are on the right track. I am very grateful to Mr.  Mittleman for that validation.al years ago, I've  strongly hesitated about eating fish as frequently as Mittleman does for  fear of more heavy metal contamination. If that is not a concern of yours,  you may well enjoy trying out Mittleman's suggestion of making fish your  main protein source. <br />Mittleman has an interesting section on how he has  experimented with his clients applying the theories of blood type and diet.  I found it interesting that he is a Type O (as am I) and that Type O's  naturally enjoy extensive, vigorous exercise, which is very true for me. I  was also delighted to be lumped in as a marathoner type as one who  exercises more than 3 hours a week. During the past few years I have  stopped going to a gym and have worked out on my own, enjoying daily  exercise sessions of walking alone alternated with walking plus lifting  light weights, each session 1-3 hours, with an average of 2 hours. Being by  myself in this process, I have occasionally slipped into a  non-self-approving mindset that this is all &quot;nothing&quot; because it  is so entirely effortless and simple--and feels so darn good. Mittleman  reminds me in his book that this is the way it is meant to be. <br />One of my  favorite statements from Mittleman is on what happened to him when he  stopped eating high-carb, low-fat around 1986 (p. 214): &quot;When I first  started competing in multiday events, I viewed meal breaks as a welcome  relief from an otherwise tedious and austere day. Food is instant  gratification in a world devoid of pleasure; it exists only to provide me  with immediate energy and pleasure and enough of an incentive to keep me  going until my next meal break. Now, after changing my nutrition strategies  to rely more on a balanced approach to eating, not just on carbohydrates  for energy, I've come to recognize that moving itself is what I crave--not  the eating. I feel as if I can move continuously, effortless, and forever.  Food is now the means to an end, not an end in and of itself....Inessence,  my relationship to food has flipped-flopped. Eating is no longer the reward  for continuously moving; being able to continuously move is the reward for  eating right.&quot; I love this quote. I have it posted on the wall where I  can see it when I exercise to remind me of what I have experienced  personally, the utter joy of feeling when you exercise that you could go on  forever. Sometimes it isn't enough to experience something--we need to be  validated, too, that we are on the right track. I am very grateful to Mr.  Mittleman for that validation.	2000-06-25
US	52841535	RW7GYQKMQVDMP	0316557684	268518515	Living Low-Carb: The Complete Guide to Long-Term Low-Carb Dieting	Books	5	187	190	N	N	Outstanding book on low-carb living!	I really enjoyed reading and frequently refer to Fran McCullough's previous low-carb book, The Low-Carb Cookbook. This second book on the subject is already proving just as useful to me. The excellent information  in it is completely accessible because the author's writing style is  smooth, down-to-earth and as pleasant an experience as a chat with a good  friend. Another major plus is that the layout of the book itself as a whole  is extremely well organized. There is a clear table of contents, an  extensive list of sources for low-carb living (many conveniently on the  Web), a bibliography and an index. The first four of the book's six  segments deal with living the low-carb lifestyle:(1) Why are we doing this  anyway? (benefits of low-carb living); (2) Secret weapons (for maintaining  the low-carb lifestyle); (3) Troubleshooting (blowing it, planned  indulgences, snacks, eating out, holidays, on the road, hitting a plateau,  thyroid troubles, etc.); (4) Special situations (vegetarianism, diabetes,  pregnancy and nursing). The fifth section contains extensive information  about what to have in your kitchen (spices, food labels, bread, soy, fake  sugar). The final section is 240 pages of new recipes to add to the  excellent ones in her first book.<br />I agree with the other reviewers that  one of the most refreshing things about Fran McCullough is that she is not  posing as a diet guru. She is an &quot;ordinary&quot; person in that she is  not a doctor or nutritionist who came up with a particular diet and is  hawking it as the salvation of all. She has tried the diet herself over a  long period of time and found it has conferred many benefits to her health.  And as a writer and cookbook editor, she has read carefully and analyzed  the latest books and studies on the subject of low-carb living. She reports  on her findings and conclusions about these books and studies clearly,  concisely, and extremely helpfully. I found her section on thyroid  especially useful. It was one of the best and most accurate statements of  thyroid information I have read in the recent past (it is a subject I read  about extensively when a very near relative of my age developed a serious  thyroid problem).<br />I believe low-carbers, either new to this diet or old  hands like me, will find this book well worth owning, a ready reference to  which you will refer again and again. I have taken extensive notes from the  book listing for myself suggestions she gave I found extremely pertinent to  me for food, supplements and sources for both which I plan to follow up on  in the very near future.It was one of the best and most accurate statements of  thyroid information I have read in the recent past (it is a subject I read  about extensively when a very near relative of my age developed a serious  thyroid problem).<br />I believe low-carbers, either new to this diet or old  hands like me, will find this book well worth owning, a ready reference to  which you will refer again and again. I have taken extensive notes from the  book listing for myself suggestions she gave I found extremely pertinent to  me for food, supplements and sources for both which I plan to follow up on  in the very near future.	2000-06-25
US	52841535	R1PYWMY4EZ5YFQ	0670889199	260955655	Fight Fat After Forty	Books	1	307	336	N	N	Nothing new here.	Dr. Peeke is an M.D. specializing in nutrition, stress andintegrative medicine who has worked at the National Institutes ofHealth and is currently Assistant Clinical Professor of Medicine at the University of Maryland School of Medicine. Sadly, in spite of her impressive credentials, virtually none of the information presented in this book is new, though she does a decent job spelling out two commonly known, scientific contentions: (1) It is pointless to diet by briefly changing your eating habits, losing a few pounds, then immediately returning to your old ways. You will regain what you lost, and the new weight will be higher in fat due to losing muscle mass on the diet. (2) To lose weight, you need to exercise and stop overeating sugary and starchy carbs.<br />After she reiterated all this, I was ready for her to jump into the &quot;revolutionary&quot; insights her book subtitle promised me. I figured it might be something about metabolism, since Dr. Peeke made a big point of discussing (more commonly known information) that one's metabolism slows 5% every decade from age 20 on. But there was nothing about raising metabolism, and, ironically, the doctor didn't notice that most of her clients, as described in this book, are, in fact, a metabolic miracle. These women are sedentary and routinely consume 3500 calories a day, heavy on the sugary and starchy carbs. This means they have been eating at least 1500-1700 calories daily above what they need to maintain normal weight, yet, somehow, they are only 40-80 pounds overweight! But rather than the doctor congratulating these lucky women on their metabolic good fortune, she tells them to reduce to only 1300 calories a day by giving up virtually all their sugar and starch and stick to the standard 6th-grade-health-class diet of 15-20% protein, 25-30% fat, and 55% of &quot;high-quality&quot; carbohydrates (e.g., fruits and fruit juices, vegetables that are not starchy, oatmeal, yogurt). The doctor, of course, fails to warn these poor women that after even a couple of weeks at this low level of calories, they are practically guaranteed to bring their present, high metabolism to a sluggish halt. And once they fall off Dr. Peeke's boring diet, as they are perhaps 90% likely to do, and go back to eating the 3500 calories a day they were previously enjoying, they will find themselves in the same unenviable position as the rest of us poor mortals--putting on several pounds a week from an extensive amount of overeating.<br />As I read on, I continued to look for something new and helpful in this book, but all I noticed was the sad lack of a number of things that might have been useful, had they been included: (1) There is no mention of a personalized diet plan utilizing such elements as height, weight, current muscle mass, age, and level of physical activity. Instead, the doctor offers a simplistic, standardized pyramid which illustrates how one will put on weight eating a diet high in sugary and starchy carbs (particularly those consumed after 5pm) juxtaposed with a pyramid meagerly occupied by her suggested 1300 calories. (2) The author barely touches on the feminist issues involved in women and obesity, other than stating obliquely that women over 40 shouldn't lose weight for beauty reasons but to increase longevity. And even though she presents a stream of clients who are over-worked, under-appreciated, professional, working mothers--Baby Boomers stuck on the deadly treadmill of &quot;you can have it all&quot;--she never offers them any advice for abandoning the myth that is responsible for the lioness' share of the stress the doctor herself says is killing them. (3) While the author admits to a reality that every advertising agency working for a junk-food company revels in, that the eating choices of the average American are almost entirely whim-driven, she adds nothing new to the topic of compulsive eating. (4) As for the link between stress and overeating, a strongly psychologicalissue which is the professed main hook of this book and the sole source of the author's claim to &quot;revolutionary&quot; originality in the arena of nutrition, the author merely mentions lightly that in order to counteract the negative effects of chronic stress, including stress-stimulated binge eating, what is needed is &quot;frequent nurturing.&quot; Here is her prescription for menopausal women to nurture themselves: (a) Make sure you have both a plan A and a backup plan B as to how you are going to eat 1/3 of the calories you used to eat from now on and limit the sugary treats, the mainstay of your current attempts to lower your stress levels, from a previous 28 or more servings a week to only two. (b) As a busy, professional woman, your eating is the one area in your life you have not carefully planned. If you will just plan that, too--voila!--your stress will go away and that nasty treat-eating habit of yours it stimulates will go away, too...<br />To sum up: for those who already eat wisely and exercise regularly, Dr. Peeke is &quot;preaching to the choir.&quot; For those who don't, I do not believe this book has what it takes to motivate them to change. In addition, women who are addicted to carbs (defined as not being able to stop yourself from regularly bingeing on sugary carbs), would be better off, if they aren't ready yet to give up food-bingeing, trying something like either the &quot;carbohydrate addicts' diet&quot; (controlled bingeing limited to one hour a day) or Dr. Atkins high-protein diet (bingeing on protein rather than carbs). If, on the other hand, a carb addict is truly, deeply ready to come out of addiction, it would be a good idea to seek out, instead of this book, one of the many excellent books addressing addictive eating. Such books will not tell her, as this book does, to use &quot;planning&quot; (another word for willpower) to overcome eating addiction.issue which is the professed main hook of this book and the sole source of the author's claim to &quot;revolutionary&quot; originality in the arena of nutrition, the author merely mentions lightly that in order to counteract the negative effects of chronic stress, including stress-stimulated binge eating, what is needed is &quot;frequent nurturing.&quot; Here is her prescription for menopausal women to nurture themselves: (a) Make sure you have both a plan A and a backup plan B as to how you are going to eat 1/3 of the calories you used to eat from now on and limit the sugary treats, the mainstay of your current attempts to lower your stress levels, from a previous 28 or more servings a week to only two. (b) As a busy, professional woman, your eating is the one area in your life you have not carefully planned. If you will just plan that, too--voila!--your stress will go away and that nasty treat-eating habit of yours it stimulates will go away, too...<br />To sum up: for those who already eat wisely and exercise regularly, Dr. Peeke is &quot;preaching to the choir.&quot; For those who don't, I do not believe this book has what it takes to motivate them to change. In addition, women who are addicted to carbs (defined as not being able to stop yourself from regularly bingeing on sugary carbs), would be better off, if they aren't ready yet to give up food-bingeing, trying something like either the &quot;carbohydrate addicts' diet&quot; (controlled bingeing limited to one hour a day) or Dr. Atkins high-protein diet (bingeing on protein rather than carbs). If, on the other hand, a carb addict is truly, deeply ready to come out of addiction, it would be a good idea to seek out, instead of this book, one of the many excellent books addressing addictive eating. Such books will not tell her, as this book does, to use &quot;planning&quot; (another word for willpower) to overcome eating addiction.	2000-06-16
US	52841535	R2X48IQ8D51A4Q	042517428X	983788058	The Burning Point	Books	5	10	21	N	N	Powerful, moving story of redemptive love!	Mary Jo Putney (MJP) is a visionary storyteller whose extensive body of work exemplifies a belief in the potential for self-improvement and healing within unique, motivated individuals. The Burning Point (TBP) is a powerful  new addition to this continuing theme in her books. It is a wonderful story  with vivid characters,  exciting conflict, clear motivation, and deep  emotion.<br />MJP has frequently, with great success, tackled the difficult  subject of redemption. Perhaps the most famous example is The Rake, a  best-selling, award-winning book dealing with the recovery of an alcoholic.  Tens of thousands of fans, including myself, adored this book because as  idealistic, optimistic romance readers, we greatly appreciate a  &quot;flawed hero&quot; who learns during the course of the story to be  true to a higher goodness within himself.<br />Knowing this about us Putney  fans, then, I was surprised to read reviews here by fellow fans where they  asserted that the nature of TBP's redemption story was somehow either a  violation of the purpose/rules of romance, or outright, morally wrong. The  following claims have been made: (1) Anything romance writers choose to  address is automatically &quot;romanticized,&quot; meaning  &quot;glamorized&quot; or &quot;encouraged,&quot; so certain subjects must  never be dealt with in romance. (2) It is a violation of the expectations  of romance readers to present a hero who has reformed from past violence  toward a heroine and reunites with her. A claim that is made in spite of  the fact that verbal and physical violence, including rape, have been  actively perpetrated by heroes upon heroines on the pages of historical and  contemporary romances-and often not atoned for in any way-from the  inception of the genre. (3) No author of any genre, but especially romance,  has a right to present a man who has committed domestic violence as  reformed, because that can never happen. (4) A hero's recovery from acting  violently is only permissible in romance if the author proves it really  happened (or could happen) by including in the book details of his trips to  the therapist.<br />A brief response to these contentions, in order: (1) With  depth and sensitivity, the romance genre has presented an enormous range of  human interactions. Even in the most restricted sub-genre of romance,  &quot;sweet&quot; category romance, the only real taboo is a cynical belief  that happy endings are impossible. (2) There is no rule that certain types  of heroes cannot be in romance. But if there were, it would seem to make  more sense to eliminate unrepentant, abusive heroes who are mean to the end  of the book and then magically transform because of the heroine's  &quot;true love&quot; vs. kicking out heroes like Donovan who transform on  their own steam, outside the relationship, by seeking professional help.  (3) While recovery from perpetrating violence is not common in the U.S.,  due to inadequate support in our society for that kind of healing to occur,  it is not impossible. And it is most likely when the man is young and has  not been entrenched in violence for decades. In the case of TBP, Kate and  Donovan split up when he was 23 and she was 21, and he immediately went  into long-term therapy. (4) While the steps of individual recovery are  fascinating, again, there is no rule in romance that only this type of  redemption story is allowed. TBP focuses on a different type of redemption,  the salvaging of a broken relationship. Here is the dramatic arc of this  journey, which is very much part of TBP:<br />When there has been a rupture in  a relationship due to one person harming the other, in order for the  relationship to heal, returning to healthy function again, several key  things must happen: (1) Empathy &amp; Rage Control. The perpetrator of harm  must go through a healing process much like the stages of grieving which  leads to two things: (a) acquiring the previously lacking emotion of  empathy,feeling what his victim felt when he harmed her, and (b) getting  in touch with the root cause of out-of-control rage. This dual journey can  vary in duration, depending on the individual situation of the perpetrator.  It usually occurs with assistance from counselors, either mental health  professionals or religious clergy. In some cases, psychiatric medication is  necessary. (2) Restitution. The perpetrator makes amends to the person he  harmed. (3) Forgiveness. The victim is objectively and reliably convinced  that the empathy, anger-control, and restitution offered by the perpetrator  are authentic, accepts them, and lets go of bitterness. (4) Trust. Trust  must be restored on both sides. Trust of another person, any person, is  predicated on internal trust of one's own self, which is based in  self-esteem and self-control. Both the former victim and the former  perpetrator must learn to have &quot;boundaries&quot; by acquiring the  ability to set personal limits and goals. In essence, this means they each  come to realize: &quot;I can never control what any one else does, only  what I myself do.&quot;<br />These four steps are done separately, but they  work synergistically to heal the relationship. In TBP, Step 1, the  acquiring of empathy and learning to control rage, happens off stage, but  Donovan's empathy for the pain he caused Kate ten years before and his  ability to avoid striking out in rage while living with her now are both  very much in evidence in the story itself. Steps 2, 3, and 4 occur on stage  and form the fabric of the whole story.<br />MJP could have written a story  on the subject of domestic violence with many different possible arcs which  various of her critics might have found more acceptable to their particular  world views than the one she chose. I, for one, however, am very grateful  for the particular journey MJP has provided in TBP, that of the restoration  of shattered trust. And I believe that for fellow romance readers who enjoy  the theme of redemption in many different forms, TBP will provide a deeply  satisfying read, as well.hy, feeling what his victim felt when he harmed her, and (b) getting  in touch with the root cause of out-of-control rage. This dual journey can  vary in duration, depending on the individual situation of the perpetrator.  It usually occurs with assistance from counselors, either mental health  professionals or religious clergy. In some cases, psychiatric medication is  necessary. (2) Restitution. The perpetrator makes amends to the person he  harmed. (3) Forgiveness. The victim is objectively and reliably convinced  that the empathy, anger-control, and restitution offered by the perpetrator  are authentic, accepts them, and lets go of bitterness. (4) Trust. Trust  must be restored on both sides. Trust of another person, any person, is  predicated on internal trust of one's own self, which is based in  self-esteem and self-control. Both the former victim and the former  perpetrator must learn to have &quot;boundaries&quot; by acquiring the  ability to set personal limits and goals. In essence, this means they each  come to realize: &quot;I can never control what any one else does, only  what I myself do.&quot;<br />These four steps are done separately, but they  work synergistically to heal the relationship. In TBP, Step 1, the  acquiring of empathy and learning to control rage, happens off stage, but  Donovan's empathy for the pain he caused Kate ten years before and his  ability to avoid striking out in rage while living with her now are both  very much in evidence in the story itself. Steps 2, 3, and 4 occur on stage  and form the fabric of the whole story. <br />MJP could have written a story  on the subject of domestic violence with many different possible arcs which  various of her critics might have found more acceptable to their particular  world views than the one she chose. I, for one, however, am very grateful  for the particular journey MJP has provided in TBP, that of the restoration  of shattered trust. And I believe that for fellow romance readers whoenjoy  the theme of redemption in many different forms, TBP will provide a deeply  satisfying read, as well.	2000-05-23
US	52841535	RYSPSYL7S8XJQ	0312252943	394302937	Welcome to Temptation	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Hilarious and sexy ensemble comedy!	I have read every one of Jennifer Crusie's books, and this award-winning, best-selling author just keeps getting better with each book.<br />Thirty-two-year-old Sophie Dempsey and her younger sister Amy have  been running a wedding-video company in Cincinnati for seven years. Their  staid existence is boring Amy to tears, but is just what Sophie wants. She  has a strong need to make up for the fact that her family is less than  respectable. Her father and brother are both con artists, and Amy has more  than a touch of that habit inside her that Sophie has worked hard to wean  her from.<br />Sophie and Amy get an offer from Clea, a former lover of their  older brother Davy, to do a documentary of the beautiful, but marginally  successful actress's return to her home town, Temptation, Ohio, after  twenty years away. Sophie hesitates. She doesn't trust Clea. Neither does  Amy, but she snaps at the chance anyway and drags Sophie along. Amy sees  this as a great opportunity to make a film that can open doors for her in  Los Angeles. Not Sophie. She feels &quot;a chill, courtesy, she was sure,  of the sixth sense that had kept generations of Dempseys out of jail most  of the time.&quot;<br />Sophie's premonitory chill proves right on target. The  documentary snowballs into &quot;vanilla porn&quot; and the small town of  Temptation is up in arms. Phineas T. Tucker, the thirty-six-year old  hereditary mayor who hails from a long line of Tucker mayors of Temptation,  must deal with &quot;those movie people out at Clea's.&quot; He soon finds  out that Sophie Dempsey is the biggest problem he's ever known. One he may  never be able to solve. Or want to.<br />Welcome to Temptation is fast-paced  and witty. Wonderfully, it is not just a &quot;light&quot; book, as most  comedies are. It is actually, frequently, laugh-out-loud funny. Crusie's  cast of characters is colorful, and each one is both uniquely characterized  with a fascinating personal voice and a significant contribution to the  ensemble-based conflicts that roll the story along. Most fun and exciting  of all, and central to the story, is a simmering affair between Phin and  Sophie that explodes to life from the moment they meet.<br />Note: Some  &quot;gentle readers&quot; may object to certain language that appears  within the erotic fantasies Phin fulfills for Sophie, and she for him. This  includes the notorious &quot;F word.&quot; This reader, however, not being  particularly &quot;gentle,&quot; found all of the love scenes both hot and  hilarious.<br />Very, very few writers of comedy are capable of writing  erotic love scenes in the midst of a hilarious romp . Crusie can. And does  it exquisitely well.<br />Make your day. Enjoy Crusie's latest triumph!on to the  ensemble-based conflicts that roll the story along. Most fun and exciting  of all, and central to the story, is a simmering affair between Phin and  Sophie that explodes to life from the moment they meet.<br />Note: Some  &quot;gentle readers&quot; may object to certain language that appears  within the erotic fantasies Phin fulfills for Sophie, and she for him. This  includes the notorious &quot;F word.&quot; This reader, however, not being  particularly &quot;gentle,&quot; found all of the love scenes both hot and  hilarious. <br />Very, very few writers of comedy are capable of writing  erotic love scenes in the midst of a hilarious romp . Crusie can. And does  it exquisitely well.<br />Make your day. Enjoy Crusie's latest triumph!	2000-04-26
US	52841535	RGDWE5GU6O2FS	0373167652	3474	Right Man (Gowns Of White)	Books	5	11	15	N	N	A brilliant, innovative, passionate love story!	There is a saying in the romance industry that few writers take chances. New writers can't, because they don't have enough &quot;clout,&quot; and established writers won't because they don't want to &quot;disappoint  reader expectations.&quot; Luckily for fans of Anne Stuart, right from the  first in her almost 30 years of writing romance, she has flown in the face  of both these dictums, having made a career of doing the unexpected. And  never more so than in The Right Man.<br />In fiction, whether popular or  literary, one of the greatest gifts a writer can have is a distinctive  voice, which becomes the author's trademark and is apparent from work to  work. Even more wonderful than this, though, and as rare as rubies, is a  writer so talented that she can vary her voice to suit the story. Anne  Stuart proves herself to be such an exceptional artist in The Right Man.<br />I am not a particular fan of film and novelistic noir of the late 1940s  and 1950s (and therefore no expert on the subject), but from the little I  have watched of that art form, it is highly recognizable. I believe it was  a touch of genius for Stuart to fall into this style or &quot;voice&quot;  for writing the segments of this time travel set in 1949. The cryptic,  highly structured noir style of dialogue, in particular, sets us firmly in  the late 1940s, and lends itself to a concise and deliberate pacing that,  while moving the book along rapidly (essential in a short book such as  this), never seems too rushed. The noir voice as used here is also so  highly visual, one can easily imagine the book being made into a film, with  the original dialogue carried into a script intact. (Are you listening,  Lifetime? &lt;G&gt;)<br />The use of the wedding dress, which is the major  plot device of the &quot;Gowns of White&quot; Harlequin series this book is  part of, as a magical device for time travel, while not a wholly new  technique in and of itself, is quite original in its execution. My three  favorite aspects are these: the way the dress, like an enchanted cape from  a fairy tale, never soils or wrinkles; the way the magic brought by the  dress spills over into all the other major characters' perceptions, and the  way we are never quite sure if the time travel really happens or is a case  of mass hypnosis (though this possibility is pleasantly mystical in and of  itself).<br />As wonderful as the magic and the noir voice are, they do not  overwhelm that which is the ultimate reason fans read romance: the love  relationship. In this book, we get not one, but two great pairs of lovers.  The level of sexual tension and expressed passion between each duo is  incendiary, and the resolution of the internal and external conflicts, both  within the protagonists individually and within the two love relationships,  is believable and satisfying.<br />All in all, this is not only one of the  best romance novels I've read in the past few years, but, in my opinion,  one of the best short contemporaries I've read in almost 20 years of  enjoying this genre.favorite aspects are these: the way the dress, like an enchanted cape from  a fairy tale, never soils or wrinkles; the way the magic brought by the  dress spills over into all the other major characters' perceptions, and the  way we are never quite sure if the time travel really happens or is a case  of mass hypnosis (though this possibility is pleasantly mystical in and of  itself).<br />As wonderful as the magic and the noir voice are, they do not  overwhelm that which is the ultimate reason fans read romance: the love  relationship. In this book, we get not one, but two great pairs of lovers.  The level of sexual tension and expressed passion between each duo is  incendiary, and the resolution of the internal and external conflicts, both  within the protagonists individually and within the two love relationships,  is believable and satisfying.<br />All in all, this is not only one of the  best romance novels I've read in the past few years, but, in my opinion,  one of the best short contemporaries I've read in almost 20 years of  enjoying this genre.	2000-04-03
US	52841535	RON571991X143	1884910289	855792266	Building Fiction: How to Develop Plot & Structure	Books	4	38	41	N	N	Excellent ideas for beginning &amp; intermediate writers.	Over the course of the 7 years I've been writing novel-length fiction, I've read dozens of how-to books. Frequently I've found those written by authors of &quot;lit fic,&quot; such as Kercheval, to not be very useful to  a writer of commercial, popular fiction. But Kercheval is a happy exception  to this rule. I found her book clear and often very insightful on almost  every aspect of the novel. Since discussing everything I liked would take  too much space and time, I will limit myself to describing the aspect I  found most valuable, Kercheval's discussion of conflict.<br />I particularly  liked what Kercheval has to say about &quot;interior dialogue,&quot; aka  &quot;introspection,&quot; or what I often banefully call  &quot;musing.&quot; She talks about it as the strongest source of revealing  internal conflict (&quot;man against himself&quot;), while action is the  area in which external conflict (&quot;man against man,&quot; &quot;man  against nature&quot;) is displayed. Of course many people have written  about conflict before, but I think Kercheval's unique contribution is the  very clear way she explains how one can visualize the resolution of the  internal and external conflict. To wit: that the external crisis in a novel  cannot be resolved until after the internal crisis is resolved.<br />I liked  her statement in this regard that the internal crisis is the moment the  protagonist decides to take the action which can potentially resolve the  external conflict. This was, to me, a very thought-provoking way of  describing what is traditionally known as the &quot;come to realize&quot;  moment which follows the &quot;black moment&quot; of a novel. She suggests  that often this moment of internal insight involves the protagonist ceasing  to be stuck in the belief that people (including him/herself) can't change.  Once the protagonist realizes that he/she *can* change, this permits the  growth that allows the character to reframe his/her thinking so as to allow  new possibilities for action to occur. The action, as mentioned above,  which leads to the resolution of the external conflict.<br />Finally, I found  Kercheval's explanation of the internal conflict techniques of flashbacks,  dreams and visions quite useful. In particular, I hadn't thought of the use  of visions as a useful technique in popular fiction before, and her  analysis of it gave me new food for thought.ow  new possibilities for action to occur. The action, as mentioned above,  which leads to the resolution of the external conflict.<br />Finally, I found  Kercheval's explanation of the internal conflict techniques of flashbacks,  dreams and visions quite useful. In particular, I hadn't thought of the use  of visions as a useful technique in popular fiction before, and her  analysis of it gave me new food for thought.	2000-03-18
US	52841535	R174F9B4JPOO1L	1568250290	8997622	How to Handle Bullies, Teasers and Other Meanies: A Book That Takes the Nuisance Out of Name Calling and Other Nonsense	Books	5	66	75	N	N	Practical idealism--a joy to read and teach my children!	I was stunned at the quality of this book. I got it at the library, read it in one sitting, and immediately had to buy it from Amazon. I knew this was a book I would be referring to again and again in days, months and  years to come.<br />I have been doing a great deal of research on bullying in  order to help my two ADHD kids with this problem, and this is the best book  among those written for both children and adults I've found on the subject.  My kids and I are now using it for them--and me (it is great for adults,  too!)--to gain skills in dealing with bullies (we adults call other adults  who are bullies &quot;difficult people&quot;). We are practicing the  wonderful suggestions in the book for defusing bullies using, as the author  suggests, role playing. It is a great confidence builder for all of us.  Confidence for me in my kids' new abilities to protect themselves, and a  greater freedom from anxiety on my part for their safety and general social  well-being.	2000-03-18
US	52841535	R1SXID9V0HQH9A	0345437772	969819992	Sugar Busters! Quick & Easy Cookbook	Books	5	175	179	N	N	Good cookbook.	I am a firm believer in high-protein diets, in spite of the fact that on the Zone, which I have been on 4 years, though I originally lost 25 pounds, over the past 2 years I had gained back 15 pounds of that loss. I decided  to do some more reading about other high-protein diets to see what was  wrong. I was very impressed with what Sugar Busters has to say. It is  almost identical to what Dr. Atkins and The Schwarzbein Principle have to  say, but I like this cookbook much better than Dr. Atkins' and Dr.  Schwarzbein doesn't have a cookbook.<br />I have had hypoglycemia for many  years and have extensive diabetes in my lineage, so originally I went on  the Zone to deal with blood sugar problems. The weight loss was a nice  extra treat, and once I had it, I wanted to keep it. The Zone doesn't have  you give up sugar, and I've been finding that even though just balancing  carbs of any kind with protein and fiber helps the blood sugar, if you are  sugar sensitive, over time, you begin to lose the insulin-balancing  benefits and weight losses if you merely do high-protein and don't give up  sugar as Sugar Busters recommends.<br />I have been on the Sugar Busters  no-sugar, no-white-flour, no-starchy vegetables diet for 3 weeks now. I am  not craving sugar; I feel great, and I've lost 6 of the 15 regained pounds  from the Zone. This diet seems to cause you, like the Zone (if it works) to  lose about 1-2 pounds a week if you have less than 30 pounds to lose. For  people with a huge amount of weight to lose, you can lose as much as 4-6  pounds a week in the beginning, according to information in the Sugar  Busters and Atkins' books.	2000-01-19
US	52841535	R3VH7EFTJNSSY0	0684850141	441038925	Potatoes Not Prozac, A Natural Seven-Step Dietary Plan to Stabilize the Level of Sugar in Your Blood, Control Your Cravings and Lose Weight, and Recognize How Foods Affect the Way You Feel	Books	5	34	37	N	N	Great insights for depression!	The insights from this book on beta-endorphins I found particularly helpful. I've never seen it presented in such a complete way. For many people this may help explain why SSRI's like Prozac, alone, have not  eliminated their symptoms of depression. The information about blood sugar  and raising serotin levels I've seen elsewhere, but it is the combination  of that information along with the beta-endorphin information which, to me,  makes this book particularly helpful not only to people who suffer from  addictions and depression, but those who experience painful anxiety as  well.	2000-01-13
US	52841535	R6C5V1SOJLTS0	0813118174	498327160	Her Bread To Earn: Women, Money, and Society from Defoe to Austen	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	An outstanding book for feminist scholars of the Regency	This book is written by an English professor from Illinois who has closely examined images of women in the eighteenth-century English novel. As a result of her research, the author has concluded that women are depicted as  &quot;strong, capable and responsible members of society in a surprising  variety of works&quot; by major male and female novelists of  eighteenth-century England.<br />Scheuermann believes that other scholars who  have examined the literature of the eighteenth century in the past have put  too much emphasis on woman as &quot;a nonfunctioning member of society,  essentially excluded from any but the role of sufferer.&quot; In addition,  the author offers the following fascinating quote, which represents one of  the major premises of her book: &quot;Relatively few eighteenth-century  female characters spend much time worrying about their virginity. There is  much more concern with making a living--whether the woman is single, which  means finding money to live, or married, which implies managing  finances.&quot; Scheuermann states that a frequent theme in  eighteenth-century novels is the inability of men to manage money and how  wives try to deal with that harrowing problem. She claims that Austen's  Pride and Prejudice has a strong financial base and that in Emma, as well,  finances are virtually synonymous with matrimonial pairings. In addition,  the author doesn't agree with traditional interpretations of Richardson's  Pamela and Clarissa as being defenses of virtue. She believes they, as much  as Austen's works, are also &quot;money centered.&quot;<br />Scheuermann  believes that the world of eighteenth-century women in English novels is  not so terribly restricted as the current scholarly &quot;misemphasis&quot;  on chastity implies. She feels that women &quot;get away with quite a  lot&quot; in these books. They leave home a great deal, are not always very  well chaperoned, often have extraordinary adventures, and the world is not  perceived as horribly dangerous by them. In fact, if a young woman comes to  harm, it is usually at the hands of someone she knows. (Very much in  keeping with what we know these days statistically about rape.)<br />The  author points out that the themes in British eighteenth-century novels are  very different than American ones. In American fiction of that era, the  slightest mis-step on the part of a female character leads to  &quot;irreparable loss and imminent death.&quot; Female characters in  American novels who &quot;deliberately or accidentally venture beyond the  bounds of polite behavior...die in droves...for the very smallest of  peccadilloes.&quot; In contrast, in all but the most  &quot;sentimental&quot; British fiction, women are &quot;quite  robust.&quot;<br />Importantly, the author distinguishes between the social  patterns in novels and the real-life legal situation of women in the  eighteenth century as well as the extremely limited employment options they  had. She comments on the well-known fact that widows and women who are  unmarried and unbetrothed could control their property and money, but that  a married woman had no such rights, nor had she any rights over her own  children. The author says that in spite of this gloomy reality, however,  eighteenth-century British novels portray a &quot;relatively optimistic  view of women in society.&quot; Scheuermann believes this is because people  simply lived their lives. They didn't spend their time lamenting  &quot;their disadvantages before the law.&quot;<br />At the beginning of the  book, the author explains clearly her research methodology. Speaking from  my own background in sociology, political science, history and literature,  it is very clear to me why Scheuermann feels compelled to defend the  approach called &quot;text examination.&quot; I agree with the author's  contention that many literary scholars do not believe it is valid to  inspect the actual text of novels and compare portions of the content of  one novel to the content of another. They insist that text can never be  &quot;stable and transparent&quot; because it has no meaning outside the  narrative it belongs to. In contrast, Scheuermann holds to the competing  theory that literary text can indeed be examined, in whole or in part, just  as any other historical text can be examined, and that it can also be  compared to other literary text. She also clearly subscribes to the theory  that artists (in this case writers), whether consciously or unconsciously,  exist as mirrors of society and its mores.<br />Both of these theories have  gone in and out of style with literature, sociology and history professors  over the past 30-40 years. But though they are currently slightly  unfashionable within academia, they still remain valid approaches to  learning about social attitudes of a given historical period. Particularly  in the hands of a careful scholar such as Professor Scheuermann.<br />Dr.  Scheuermann's book is well written and well annotated with a full index.  Her conclusions are clear, meaningful and logically drawn from the material  at hand. In short, the book is both highly informative and a pleasure to  read.content of  one novel to the content of another. They insist that text can never be  &quot;stable and transparent&quot; because it has no meaning outside the  narrative it belongs to. In contrast, Scheuermann holds to the competing  theory that literary text can indeed be examined, in whole or in part, just  as any other historical text can be examined, and that it can also be  compared to other literary text. She also clearly subscribes to the theory  that artists (in this case writers), whether consciously or unconsciously,  exist as mirrors of society and its mores. <br />Both of these theories have  gone in and out of style with literature, sociology and history professors  over the past 30-40 years. But though they are currently slightly  unfashionable within academia, they still remain valid approaches to  learning about social attitudes of a given historical period. Particularly  in the hands of a careful scholar such as Professor Scheuermann. <br />Dr.  Scheuermann's book is well written and well annotated with a full index.  Her conclusions are clear, meaningful and logically drawn from the material  at hand. In short, the book is both highly informative and a pleasure to  read.	2000-01-03
US	52841535	R3GFC5SHH06K5O	1565844831	67605162	The Mask of Motherhood: How Becoming a Mother Changes Everything and Why We Pretend It Doesn't	Books	5	30	32	N	N	An astoundingly insightful book!	I agree with the other reviewers who say that this is a book that has long needed to be written.<br /><br />I first became a mother in 1985, and by 1988 when I had my second child, I, too, like Maushart, had begun to feel great anger and pain at the &#34;conspiracy of silence&#34; among mothers about how  &#34;easy&#34; and &#34;constantly inspiring and joyful&#34; the job of  mothering is. I agree with the author that there is great fear among most  of us mothers, particularly college-educated, professional, feminist women,  of admitting that mothering is the hardest job there is, that no one can do  it effectively alone, and that we are in over our heads. Mothering  throughout history has never been a one-woman undertaking, but we've been  programmed to believe in the U.S., especially in the last 25 years, that  there is &#34;nothing to it.&#34;<br /><br />I applaud what Maushart has to say  about the frequently cited feminist fantasy that: (a) all our options will  continue to be open after motherhood, combined with the rather sexistly  inculcated belief we are all prone to, even feminists, that (b) mothering  is an &#34;easy&#34; job, easier than &#34;men's work&#34; in the  business world. No wonder we become deluded that, hey, I'll just easily  pump out that baby, then go on truckin' just as before, no problem, no big  deal. I can, afterall, &#34;have it all&#34; because I want it.<br /><br />I also  was delighted to hear someone at last talking about the other big shock  that feminist women encounter who are married to, we thought, feminist men:  the baby's father's overnight Jekyll-to-Hyde return to the dark ages of  gender roles after baby is born, leaving the wife the lion's share of  childcare duties.<br /><br />I can't count how many women I know, including myself,  who experienced the way this shatteringly unexpected metamorphosis can  destroy a previously viable marriage, damaging trust and respect for your  husband in ways that are almost impossible to repair.<br /><br />Thank you so much,  Ms. Maushart, for bringing out into the open the pain and disillusionment  so many women in America are suffering today around the complex issue of  mothering. I believe this book should be required reading for every woman  from 13-45 who has no children yet but thinks she might want to become a  mother someday. Now all we need is a follow-up book on one other dangerous  myth of mothers. That somewhere out there is the perfect *second* husband  who will be the loving, nurturing father to our children their biological  father never was.art, for bringing out into the open the pain and disillusionment  so many women in America are suffering today around the complex issue of  mothering. I believe this book should be required reading for every woman  from 13-45 who has no children yet but thinks she might want to become a  mother someday. Now all we need is a follow-up book on one other dangerous  myth of mothers. That somewhere out there is the perfect *second* husband  who will be the loving, nurturing father to our children their biological  father never was.	2000-01-02
US	52841535	R1EKJTHYYFZHN1	0373079621	992566393	The Admiral's Bride ( Silhouette Intimate Moments Tall, Dark & Dangerous, #962)	Books	5	104	112	N	N	Fantastic hero, great story!	Out of Ms. Brockmann's many fabulous heroes, all of whom I adore, I *totally* fell in love with Admiral Jake Robinson! What a man! He is utterly idealistic and principled, but there is never a second of  &quot;sappiness&quot; in the author's presentation of his heroism. She  provides totally believable motivation for exactly why he seems so noble to  others. In short: no matter how many people he has saved in Vietnam and  throughout the rest of his illustrious career, he has always regretted the  ones he wasn't able to save.<br />At 52, Jake has been widowed for several  years after a happy, 30-year marriage to an artist. The heroine, Zoe Lange,  is different in every way from Jake's deceased wife, but she is truly his  soul mate. Like him, she works in covert operations and feels a huge  adrenaline rush from the danger. Because their work is so similar, Zoe  understands Jake's career as his dead wife never could.<br />Many times  internal conflicts such as Jake's guilt about the age difference between  him and Zoe can get tedious in romance because the hero's  &quot;angsting&quot; gets excessive. Happily, Ms. Brockmann never crosses  that line. The very traits of honor and commitment and deep, abiding love  that make the heroine fall in love with Jake are the things that believably  keep them apart until the tumultuous climax.<br />Zoe is a fabulous heroine.  Brilliant, competent, and independent, she never wanted to marry because  she put her career above everything else in life. She loves her work as a  scientist specializing in biological warfare. Like Jake, she knows her work  is very important because it saves so many lives. So up until Jake, she  only got involved with men as potential lovers that she was sure she would  fall in love with only a little bit.<br />However, almost immediately with  Jake she realizes this is not going to be the case. She loses her previous  control, because it is impossible to keep any distance from this incredible  man.<br />As for the love scenes--whew! TOTALLY HOT! Because Ms. Brockmann  writes in close-third point of view, we get to be intensely immersed in the  passionate feelings of each character in these scenes as well as all  others. The author never distracts us by the dizzying head-hopping many  other romance authors succumb to. We are always close-in and utterly  personally involved by her seamless writing style.<br />All in all this is a  truly magnificent book worthy of the many awards it will undoubtedly win,  as so many other of Ms. Brockmann's books have. The only  &quot;complaint&quot; I have is that the book had to end!s for the love scenes--whew! TOTALLY HOT! Because Ms. Brockmann  writes in close-third point of view, we get to be intensely immersed in the  passionate feelings of each character in these scenes as well as all  others. The author never distracts us by the dizzying head-hopping many  other romance authors succumb to. We are always close-in and utterly  personally involved by her seamless writing style.<br />All in all this is a  truly magnificent book worthy of the many awards it will undoubtedly win,  as so many other of Ms. Brockmann's books have. The only  &quot;complaint&quot; I have is that the book had to end!	2000-01-01
US	52841535	R3HR1NE71ZA3SA	0451183193	850454069	Vampire Viscount (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A brilliant book by a rising star!	I love all Karen Harbaugh's books, but this is my very favorite. The hero is fascinating, the heroine strong and his equal. The paranormal elements are superbly done. So well so that fans of paranormal and fans of Regency  alike will find this book a Must Read.<br />If you haven't read Karen Harbaugh  yet, you'll be glad you did when you get your hands on this great book!	2000-01-01
US	52841535	R3S4OQJ9XO1ESG	0451401859	61510005	Dearly Beloved (Onyx)	Books	5	4	8	N	N	A fantastic, sexy story!	The original, exciting premise of this book, an abandoned wife seducing her own husband years after the fact, is wonderful. And the sensuous scenes between them are HOT! As always, Ms. Putney has created extraordinary  characters, full-blooded, fascinating, and utterly passionate. A fabulous  reading experience!	2000-01-01
US	52841535	R3HQQEXS9Z89BC	0373079680	183740264	Undercover Princess (Royally Wed)	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Wonderful story involving kids.	Twenty-five-year-old Princess Katherine Wyndham comes from a small principality in Europe. She is the youngest of her sisters and, in her own eyes, very \\"plain\\" compared to the other princesses and her mother, all of whom are heart-stoppingly gorgeous. Katherine has had only one love affair up until the moment of the story. The man involved used her to get ahead and ultimately dumped her, leaving Katherine very cynical about men who know her true identity.<br /><br />Katherine's brother, the heir to the throne, was kidnapped as an infant, and her family recently has had leads in America as to several possibilities for his location. One of those leads is Trey Sutherland. Her brother was raised in an orphanage, and he may currently be Trey's business partner. Katherine has been trying unsuccessfully for days to get an appointment with the reclusive Trey, then suddenly when she calls his office, his secretary gives her an appointment for an interview that very day at Trey's home. Katherine grabs at this unexpected opportunity and rushes over to Trey's house, which appears more like a small castle than a home, with Trey's office located in a turret.<br /><br />Katherine discovers that the reason she has finally been invited in so readily is that Trey desperately needs a nanny, and the secretary assumed that Katherine was applying for the job. Katherine does not want to deceive Trey as to her purpose for seeing him, but several things happen to cause her to decide to go \\"undercover,\\" starting with telling Trey her name is \\"Kathy Wind.\\" First, the man who may be her brother is currently out of town on an extended stay, and Katherine wants to be around when he next contacts Trey. Second, Katherine is instantly attracted to handsome, 35-year-old Trey, and he is clearly drawn to her. It is very tempting to get to know him without the burden of her princess identity tainting their interaction. Finally, her heart goes out to his children, who have gone through innumerable nannies and are in a very bad place. Trey's wife died three years before, and Trey's daughter and son are still obviously traumatized by the loss of their mother. When Trey sees how well his children respond to Katherine, he begs her to become their nanny. Katherine impulsively accepts his offer of a job.<br /><br />This book has a wonderful hero and fantastic heroine! The passion between them is powerful, and their emotional connection is deep and very moving.<br /><br />What was particularly enjoyable for me, as an added bonus over and above even these great things in the story, were the scenes where the heroine, Kathy, interacts as temporary nanny with the children of the hero, Trey. The daughter is 13 and quite angry and rebellious. The son is six, almost seven, and hasn't spoken in three years. He pretends to be a dog and only communicates by barking. His name is Doug, but his sister calls him, \\"Doggie.\\" The  manner in which Kathy coaxes him back into acting like a little boy again instead of a dog is both hilarious and extremely touching. Kathy's relationship with the hero's teenage daughter is great, too.<br /><br />Update March 30, 2013: I just reread this book in a Kindle edition. It is well formatted and edited.<br /><br />There is one main area of the story that is rather unbelievable to me this time around that I did not notice too much back in 1999 on my first read of this book. That is the fact that the heroine is able to get away with giving a fake name to the hero only because he never asks her to show identification to prove who she is, and she is not asked, as a non-US citizen, to demonstrate that she is legally able to work in the U.S. Such identification would have immediately blown her \\"undercover operation,\\" and it has been required by employers for decades in this country, not just post-9/11. However, I will admit that many people, including prominent politicians, have made a habit over the years of paying undocumented workers such as nannies under the table, and so might have Trey. But it seems a shade too convenient to the story's requirements to just pretend this legal reality doesn't exist rather than motivating Trey for carelessly overlooking it.<br /><br />A more likely downside to this story for many readers than the \\"papers, please\\" technicality is the fact that the mystery about the missing prince, which is the premise for the \\"cute meet\\" of the heroine and hero, is not resolved in this book. This book was originally released by Harlequin as part of the Silhouette Intimate Moments line, #968, December 1999, and labeled as Book 2 of the \\"Royally Wed\\" series. There are a total of 12 books in this series, and the rest of the books were not written by Brockmann, but by other Harlequin authors. Presumably the mystery about the prince is not fully resolved until the last book of this series. This is the only book of that series I myself have read.<br /><br />Below is a complete list of the books in the \\"Royally Wed\\" series. So far, only a few of them, including this book, have been re-released as Kindle editions, and in those cases the links provided are to used, paperback books. Note that Book 11 isn't available as a used book on Amazon at this time.<br /><br />Royally Wed Series:<br /><br />[[ASIN:0373242816 A Royal Baby on the Way]], Book 1<br />Undercover Princess by Suzanne Brockmann, Book 2<br />[[ASIN:0733533779 The Princess's White Knight by Carla Cassidy]], Book 3<br />[[ASIN:B0053GRSZ6 The Pregnant Princess]], Book 4<br />[[ASIN:0373243030 Man...Mercenary...Monarch by Joan Elliott Pickart]], Book 5<br />[[ASIN:0373194323 Royal Masquerade by Arlene James]], Book 6<br />[[ASIN:0373194404 AA Royal Marriage by Cara Colter]], Book 7<br />[[ASIN:0373194463 A Royal Mission by Elizabeth August]], Book 8<br />[[ASIN:0373195044 The Expectant Princess by Stella Bagwell]], Book 9<br />[[ASIN:0373195109 Blacksheep Prince's Bride by Martha Shields]], Book 10<br />Code Name: Prince by Valerie Parv, Book 11<br />[[ASIN:0373195222 An Officer and a Princess by Carla Cassidy]], Book 12r the table, and so might have Trey. But it seems a shade too convenient to the story's requirements to just pretend this legal reality doesn't exist rather than motivating Trey for carelessly overlooking it.<br /><br />A more likely downside to this story for many readers than the \\"papers, please\\" technicality is the fact that the mystery about the missing prince, which is the premise for the \\"cute meet\\" of the heroine and hero, is not resolved in this book. This book was originally released by Harlequin as part of the Silhouette Intimate Moments line, #968, December 1999, and labeled as Book 2 of the \\"Royally Wed\\" series. There are a total of 12 books in this series, and the rest of the books were not written by Brockmann, but by other Harlequin authors. Presumably the mystery about the prince is not fully resolved until the last book of this series. This is the only book of that series I myself have read.<br /><br />Below is a complete list of the books in the \\"Royally Wed\\" series. So far, only a few of them, including this book, have been re-released as Kindle editions, and in those cases the links provided are to used, paperback books. Note that Book 11 isn't available as a used book on Amazon at this time.<br /><br />Royally Wed Series:<br /><br />[[ASIN:0373242816 A Royal Baby on the Way]], Book 1<br />Undercover Princess by Suzanne Brockmann, Book 2<br />[[ASIN:0733533779 The Princess's White Knight by Carla Cassidy]], Book 3<br />[[ASIN:B0053GRSZ6 The Pregnant Princess]], Book 4<br />[[ASIN:0373243030 Man...Mercenary...Monarch by Joan Elliott Pickart]], Book 5<br />[[ASIN:0373194323 Royal Masquerade by Arlene James]], Book 6<br />[[ASIN:0373194404 AA Royal Marriage by Cara Colter]], Book 7<br />[[ASIN:0373194463 A Royal Mission by Elizabeth August]], Book 8<br />[[ASIN:0373195044 The Expectant Princess by Stella Bagwell]], Book 9<br />[[ASIN:0373195109 Blacksheep Prince's Bride by Martha Shields]], Book 10<br />Code Name: Prince by Valerie Parv, Book 11<br/>[[ASIN:0373195222 An Officer and a Princess by Carla Cassidy]], Book 12	2000-01-01
US	52841535	R7YX9QRU61CY0	0060928972	297500558	Emotional Blackmail: When the People in Your Life Use Fear, Obligation, and Guilt to Manipulate You	Books	5	829	847	N	N	Outstanding book--truly helpful!	This book does a very clear job of defining emotional blackmail so you can begin to easily spot emotional blackmailers in your life. It then concludes with telling you specifically how to deal with emotional blackmail, that  is, how to keep your energy, resources, and sometimes your very soul, from  being stolen by them.<br />Something that was particularly important for me  personally in the book was the part at the end where she talks about not  emotionally blackmailing *yourself*! What an insight! I realized that even  when rigid, controlling people are not around to inspire guilt, fear and  shame in me to get me to do things that are hurtful to me for their selfish  benefit, I have a &quot;voice&quot; in my head that does the job for them,  telling me that whatever I do that doesn't fit the world view of past and  present blackmailers is &quot;wrong,&quot; &quot;selfish,&quot; or even  &quot;evil.&quot; So I beat myself up on behalf of my blackmailers even  when they are not around to do it.<br />I also was impressed by the insight  that not only does it &quot;take two to tango,&quot; that no one can  blackmail me if I don't let them, but that it is also possible for me to  actually &quot;train&quot; people to blackmail me. This is particularly,  true, I think, for those of us raised in rigid, controlling homes with  emotionally blackmailing parents. Thereafter, we are, so to speak, fertile  ground for any future emotional blackmailers.<br />I had rather been  realizing these sorts of things the past few years now that I'm in my 40s  (the middle years when we suddenly reevaluate our whole life), and  gradually eliminating emotional blackmailers from my life, without exactly  using that term. (The term I used was ridding myself of people whose  presence felt like &quot;being nibbled to death by ducks.&quot;) This book  has validated my innate human &quot;right&quot; to not be eaten alive by  the selfish demands of others.<br />Kudos to Ms. Forward!	1999-12-29
US	52841535	R1UM8RPAG1LB69	0446525766	243454269	The Protein Power Lifeplan	Books	5	18	24	N	N	Excellent follow-up to Protein Power	I found this especially useful in planning the steps of weight loss maintenance.	1999-12-29
US	52841535	RK7DRNW6RT6QL	0373079745	311771038	Identity: Unknown (Tall, Dark & Dangerous, Book 8)	Books	5	137	141	N	N	A wonderful book by an extremely talented author!	I don't see anything posted as to what this book is about, so here is the info from the back cover: Navy SEAL Mitchell Shaw woke one morning with no clue as to who he was. And the items hidden in his possession were no  help--an address, along with a .22 caliber side arm. The address led him to  the Lazy 8 Ranch--and its beautiful manager, Becca Keyes, who made him  believe he might have a future, even if he wasn't sure about his  past.<br />The gun was another story altogether....<br />Since I first discovered  her work, it has been my pleasure to read every book that Suzanne Brockmann  has written. I have many favorites by this wonderful writer, but I have to  say that I have particularly enjoyed Identity: Unknown. As an extremely  jaded romance reader who has been reading love stories 35 years and romance  since its inception in the early 70s, in my opinion,  this book totally  fulfills the highest purpose of romance, to make the reader feel, and feel  intensely. The emotional and passionate impact of this story is tremendous!  I believe there are multiple reasons for this achievement.<br />First,  characterization. Since romance, more than any other form of fiction, is  utterly character driven, the most essential requirement for excellence is  wonderful characters. Ms. Brockmann has totally succeeded at this goal in  Identity: Unknown. These characters are not just sympathetic, they leap  from the page.<br />Second, conflict and motivation. This book is brimming  with believably motivated and very gripping external, internal, and most  important of all, relationship conflict between the lovers. It is essential  in a romance that the lovers be together constantly, be absolutely  &quot;made for each other,&quot; and yet something compelling and  believable keep them apart, elements which are there &quot;in spades&quot;  in this book.<br />An additional vital component of excellent fiction,  including romance, is great plotting. It is very evident in this book in  Ms. Brockmann's fascinating use of a continuing Navy SEAL theme. When  Mitch, the hero, receives an injury while on undercover assignment that  leads to temporary amnesia, this fascinating plotting device works  beautifully with a well-motivated internal conflict centering around the  honor and integrity of the hero. This in turn seamlessly leads to  the  exciting external and internal complications which race the story along and  keep the reader rapidly turning pages.<br />Along with all of the above vital  components of good popular fiction, in a romance, there is the additional  requirement of a love relationship of such an intensity that the reader is  moved to tears, quivers and sighs. In this, Ms. Brockmann thrillingly  exceeds our expectations. The tenderness, poignancy, trust, compassion,  caring--and blazing sensuality--between Mitch and Becca are astounding.<br />Mitch is one of my all-time favorite heroes, and, which is all-important  for me as a reader, the heroine is worthy of him in her ability to love,  her bravery, initiative, independence, and ethics.<br />Do yourself a favor  and read this book, one of the best the romance genre has to offer! And  after you do, pass it on to all your friends and relations who have ever  scoffed at romance.Ms. Brockmann's fascinating use of a continuing Navy SEAL theme. When  Mitch, the hero, receives an injury while on undercover assignment that  leads to temporary amnesia, this fascinating plotting device works  beautifully with a well-motivated internal conflict centering around the  honor and integrity of the hero. This in turn seamlessly leads to  the  exciting external and internal complications which race the story along and  keep the reader rapidly turning pages. <br />Along with all of the above vital  components of good popular fiction, in a romance, there is the additional  requirement of a love relationship of such an intensity that the reader is  moved to tears, quivers and sighs. In this, Ms. Brockmann thrillingly  exceeds our expectations. The tenderness, poignancy, trust, compassion,  caring--and blazing sensuality--between Mitch and Becca are astounding.  <br />Mitch is one of my all-time favorite heroes, and, which is all-important  for me as a reader, the heroine is worthy of him in her ability to love,  her bravery, initiative, independence, and ethics.<br />Do yourself a favor  and read this book, one of the best the romance genre has to offer! And  after you do, pass it on to all your friends and relations who have ever  scoffed at romance.	1999-12-26
US	52841535	R3GEX8UR2D3T4S	0373440774	801661383	How Sweet It Is / Second-Chance Groom (Harlequin Duets, No. 11)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Kimberly Raye's book is hilarious!!	I love a humorous romance, and Kimberly Raye's is one of the funniest I've read in years! Good sexual tension, too. Her characterizations are  excellent, and most particularly, she has a very strong ability to give  each character a totally distinctive voice--a rare quality and a great  talent.	1999-10-31
US	52841535	R25FKT252OOCDW	0373258445	311657429	Pure Temptation (Blaze)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Very sexy, extremely emotionally intense read!	This is a fabulous book. I hope it wins the RITA for short contemporary romance. It is one of the best short contemporaries I've read this year,  and definitely the *best* BLAZE I've read, and many of them have been  *very* good. I agree with what the other people above said, very HOT, and I  love a hot read. The premise for the conflict is very believable, and I  personally love a &quot;friends become lovers&quot; plot. I also felt the  small town theme was extremely well done. I, too, am now looking for more  of VLT's books! :)	1999-10-24
US	52841535	R3H28NCDKTA8F5	0684865998	588602050	DEADLY PERSUASION: Why Women And Girls Must Fight The Addictive Power Of Advertising	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Brilliantly insightful book!	I found this book utterly fascinating. My educational background is in sociology, political science, education and counseling psychology, and for  several decades I've been both fascinated and appalled by the power the  advertising media have over our culture. I have never seen anyone talk so  lucidly about this vital subject before. Bravo!	1999-10-24
US	52841535	R2Z2ODEMOW48FN	0345433157	548738377	The Wild Child (The Bride Trilogy)	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Mary Jo Putney at her best--which is stunning!	I love this story! The empathic, sensitive, animal-healing hero is to die for, and I really love the heroine, especially her psychic abilities and  the way the hero and heroine both love animals so much and connect  emotionally and spiritually over this love.<br />MJP's major talent is very  much in evidence in every part of this story. I am in awe of her elegant  use of flashbacks, the careful, believable, moving character development  with great motivation, the extraordinary romance, friendship and passion  between the hero and heroine. Also, MJP's special gift, very much in  evidence here, is interweaving the relationship between the hero and  heroine with their relationships with their blood families as well as their  &quot;families of affiliation.&quot; Particularly in this case the latter  provides a welcome chance to revisit old friends in Rebecca and  Kenneth.<br />I find the whole setting of the heroine's incredible gardens  enthralling, including her artistic ability with flower arrangements and  &quot;carving&quot; bushes in the topiary and elsewhere. I love Meriel's  amazing tree house and the lovely image of the beautiful horse Dom gets her  with hair the color of hers. The scene with the fox Meriel and Dom save is  very moving, as is the relationship she has with her East Indian rescuer  and his romance with an important subcharacter. So many riches in one book,  I have to say more. &lt;G&gt;<br />I experienced the prologue as incredibly  powerful--what a fantastic hook! I myself never suspected for a moment who  the villain is until the climax, but his evil is not at all &quot;out of  the blue.&quot; Also well done is the interweaving of the theme of the  castle ruin throughout the whole book. It serves multiple linked purposes,  including the ultimate regaining of the heroine's blocked memory. I am  tempted to hazard my own response to the symbology here--that the castle  ruin can be seen to represent (among other evocative images and metaphors)  the heroine's family roots, and a basic solidity in her core character that  allows her to heal from the horrendous psychological trauma in her early  childhood shown in the prologue. Conceptually, the castle ruin also  provides opportunities for MJP's wonderful, subtle wit, which shines  throughout the book.<br />The plotting altogether is superb. For example, I  love what MJP does with the madhouse and the way that the hero's helping  Ames' daughter Jena leads to Dom later getting assistance to help rescue  Meriel from the same place. I like the interweaving of what is happening  with Kyle, the hero's twin, with what is happening with Dom, the hero,  throughout the book.<br />I found myself wondering about halfway through if  Dom and Kyle are going to change places in the end as a powerful echo of  their switching places throughout the book. So for me it is extremely well  motivated and &quot;organically cohesive&quot; when MJP does that switch  figuratively, in a believable psychological way, with Dom and Kyle  realizing that Dom is very like their father, rooted in family and  tradition and the land, and that Kyle is a natural wanderer. Kyle also  realizes that only he has been keeping himself from following his dream and  that he doesn't have to resent anyone or anything for that situtation  anymore--he can remedy it himself.e heroine's family roots, and a basic solidity in her core character that  allows her to heal from the horrendous psychological trauma in her early  childhood shown in the prologue. Conceptually, the castle ruin also  provides opportunities for MJP's wonderful, subtle wit, which shines  throughout the book.<br />The plotting altogether is superb. For example, I  love what MJP does with the madhouse and the way that the hero's helping  Ames' daughter Jena leads to Dom later getting assistance to help rescue  Meriel from the same place. I like the interweaving of what is happening  with Kyle, the hero's twin, with what is happening with Dom, the hero,  throughout the book.<br />I found myself wondering about halfway through if  Dom and Kyle are going to change places in the end as a powerful echo of  their switching places throughout the book. So for me it is extremely well  motivated and &quot;organically cohesive&quot; when MJP does that switch  figuratively, in a believable psychological way, with Dom and Kyle  realizing that Dom is very like their father, rooted in family and  tradition and the land, and that Kyle is a natural wanderer. Kyle also  realizes that only he has been keeping himself from following his dream and  that he doesn't have to resent anyone or anything for that situtation  anymore--he can remedy it himself.	1999-10-24
US	52841535	R2HRVC9HJ93HEI	0451195361	16662744	Miss Carlyle's Curricle (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A really enjoyable read.	Karen Harbaugh is one of the best writers of the Regency genre. This is an excellent story with a nifty mystery and a compelling heroine and hero.	1999-06-29
