US	52847441	R6TJECOEFDZ36	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Very very good but�.	Let me just say that I really did enjoy this book.  I spent the weekend doing little else but reading this 870 tome and loved every minute.  There were some people complaining about the length of this book, saying that much like the previous Potter book.  I do not believe that shorting the story would have made it better in any way, shape or form.  I enjoy the way Rowling slips in jokes and sub-plots to the main story.  The characters all breathe and they all behave as if they have a unique history and lives outside of these pages.  The students and teachers are continuously true to life and you end up either caring deeply for them or hating them passionately.  Her writing creates a rich image of the strange and wonderful world of magic her characters dwell in.<br />That said there is much to love in this book.  Two new characters are introduced, Luna Lovegood a slightly strange girl from Ravenclaw and the new Defense against the Dark Arts teacher Professor Umbridge.  Professor Umbridge is a wonderful person to hate and Rowling does not spare any ink making we do hate her.  Harry is definitely growing up and it is a painful experience for himself and for those around him as well.  Gone is the sense of wonder about the magical world and in its place anger, frustration and resentment.<br />I was pleased to Rowling expand a few minor characters, particularly Jenny Weesly and Nevil Longbottom.  She works hard to flesh these characters out and giving them a larger roles and to play in the story line.  I will confess I am a fan of Longbottom, while I usually don't admit to it, I was very much like him at that age.<br />That said I must also say that this is, in my opinion, the weakest book in her series.<br />There is very little new in the way of magic or the lifestyle of the inhabitants of Rowling's world until the end during the climactic fight scene, however the objects and ideas there are merely there as backdrops and their workings left unexplained or even well explored.  Also missing was much of the sense of fun and adventure.  I realize this is becoming an increasingly serious story line I do miss the sense of fun the first four books presented.<br />All through the book I had the continuing feeling I had read this book before.<br />The story formula has remained unchanged since the first book, the plot reads out the same in each book and to tell the truth it is getting a bit threadbare.  Harry potter is abused/neglected by his boorish non-magical relatives the Dursleys.  Harry thinks that his friends have abandoned him to this fate for the summer and feels sorry form himself.  A rescue from said boorish relatives by members of the magical community springs Harry to a more pleasant summer vacation.  Harry goes off to school where he is immediately branded an outcast by his fellow students.  Rumors about Harry being either mentally unsound or actively destructive abound.  Only Harry's two best friends, Ron and Hermione, continue to accept and understand him.  Harry worries about quidditch.  Harry falls behind in his school work.  Draco Malfoy works hard to make Harry's life miserable.  One of the Professors at school has it in for Harry.  There is an elaborate plot by Lord Valdemort and both Harry and his school are in danger.  The teachers at Harry's school could solve a lot of Harry's problems if they would just have an honest talk with him but they choose to remain silent.  Harry and company could resolve their problems if they would just have an honest talk with their teachers but they choose not to.  Harry and his friends go off to defeat Lord Voldemort and save the day.  A pitched battle with Lord Voldemort takes place and Harry comes close to loosing but doesn't.  The Schools Headmaster takes Harry aside and explains things to Harry.  Everyone at school loves Harry and feels very bad they mistrusted him.<br />Rowling let it be known early on that one of the main characters will die in this book.  While I will not reveal just who does die I will admit my guess was incorrect.  Rowling does a rather good job in giving false clues to this event throughout the story.  I remember vividly reading the death of Cedric Diggory  the 4th book, Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire and feeling a great deal of shock and anger and surprise.  Given the fact that Cedric had played a rather small part in the Goblet of Fire and I believe was only briefly mentioned in an earlier book I was hit rather hard by his death.  This time when the foretold death occurred I felt no real emotion about it.  Despite the fact it was a major character I really didn't feel very bad about it.  The death happen late in the book and I am not sure why it needed to be included at all.  The death of Cedric marked an end to the innocence of the series and prompted many questions about morality and Harry's part in Cedrick's death but this latest death seems to be there simply to remind people that characters in this world can and do die.<br />I highly recommend the Order of the Phoenix and will likely reread it again soon but I hope Rowling pulls out fresher material for the next installment.	2003-06-25
US	52847441	RT97WEO0D2OI4	078691985X	714088054	Baldur's Gate II: Throne of Bhaal (Forgotten Realms)	Books	2	19	21	N	N	Even a new author could not save this series	The novelization of the popular RP computer game Baldur's Gate is perhaps one of the worst series I have ever managed to read.  The first two books of the series were written by Philip Athens.  The intricate story line of the game itself as well as the many interesting characters that populate the game all went missing in Mr. Athens' books.  I could find no redeeming value in the first two books.  The main character was poorly conceived and never fleshed out.  Subplots and any thoughts on what it means to be the child of a dead God are brushed aside without a second thought.  Given the mangling of the story in the first two books one has to wonder if Mr. Athens even bothered to play the game itself before tossing off his forgettable stories.  <br />Athens was thankfully replaced as author for the third book by Drew Karpyshyn.  Sadly the destruction was so complete that there was little left to salvage.  Mr. Karpyshyn's writing is several steps up from Athens.  The problem of this third book is not the talents of Mr. Karpyshyn rather it is the horrible and incoherent mess of first two books of the series.  The very fact that Mr. Karpyshyn could continue the story and bring the tale to its conclusion speaks very well of his talents.   <br />It is very sad that it is only in the last half of the last book of the series that some of the themes of the game actually make an appearance.  The nature of good and evil, the possibility of redemption finally get some thought put to them.  The notion that what makes an individual a hero are not things one is born with but arise out of the choices we make.  Unfortunately this attempt to redeem the series comes far to late.  <br />Chose to play the game and don't bother with the books.	2003-05-25
US	52847441	R1I6HFBYE9UPVD	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	16	22	N	N	Say goodbye to Kansas	Harvard symbologist Robert Langdon is in Paris attending a conference where he was to have met Jacques Sauniere, curator of the Louvre, but the eccentric curator failed to keep their appointment.  Latter that night Langdon is pulled from sleep by the French equivalent of the FBI, it seems Jacques Sauniere has been murdered and left a cryptic message on the floor of the museum and on his own body.  The police seem to want Langdon's skills as a symbologist to crack the case completely unaware that he is the prime murder suspect.<br />Enter Sophie Neveu, a cryptologist, a woman as intelligent as she is beautiful and, as it happens, granddaughter of the murdered curator. She believes that not only is Langdon is innocent but he is in danger.  Together they flee the scene and begin work on solving the murder of Jacques Sauniere.  The clues Sophie's grandfather left behind will lead the couple on an unparallel treasure hunt across Europe and the last two thousand years.  Their investigations lead them through secret societies, power hungry villains, and some of the most famous pieces of art and architecture of the last thousand years.  All to discover the hiding place of the Holy Grail.  Where the grail is however is secondary to WHAT the grail is and each question answered leads only to another question.  Mr. Brown takes all these elements and weaves them together with Leonardo DaVinci, Sir Isaac Newton and the Vatican itself.  Where does the trail lead? To places unexpected to be sure.  Sophie and Robert are never sure just how deep the rabbit hole really is.  Every time they believe they are on solid ground Mr. Brown pulls the carpet out from under them and the find themselves plunging deeper into the complexities of the mystery itself.<br />In the middle of the book the characters examine DaVinci's famous fresco \\"The Last Supper\\" I was compelled to find a picture to see for myself what Mr. Brown was asserting about the figures in the painting.  Upon looking at the painting I was awe struck that Mr. Brown was indeed correct and I was left to wonder just how I had missed what is so plainly obvious.  You would do well to have a copy of this famous painting along with others by DaVinci to see for yourself just how well the clues fit together.<br />Spending an afternoon in the reference section of the library I found that the assertions Mr. Brown puts fourth in his book regarding early Christianity, the Holy Grail and the many secret societies are based on facts and not fictions at all.  This itself makes the book all the more compelling and the paranoia he laces into his work all the more real.<br />Dan Brown's earlier novel, \\"Angels and Demons\\", featured the same protagonist, Robert Langdon. Like the previous book, \\"The DaVinci Code\\" is a well-researched thriller and Brown manages to educate without losing too much pacing. \\"The DaVinci Code\\" is a great history lesson about ancient Christianity and matters related to The Holy Grail.nting I was awe struck that Mr. Brown was indeed correct and I was left to wonder just how I had missed what is so plainly obvious.  You would do well to have a copy of this famous painting along with others by DaVinci to see for yourself just how well the clues fit together.  <br />Spending an afternoon in the reference section of the library I found that the assertions Mr. Brown puts fourth in his book regarding early Christianity, the Holy Grail and the many secret societies are based on facts and not fictions at all.  This itself makes the book all the more compelling and the paranoia he laces into his work all the more real.<BR>Dan Brown's earlier novel, \\"Angels and Demons\\", featured the same protagonist, Robert Langdon. Like the previous book, \\"The DaVinci Code\\" is a well-researched thriller and Brown manages to educate without losing too much pacing. \\"The DaVinci Code\\" is a great history lesson about ancient Christianity and matters related to The Holy Grail.	2003-04-01
US	52847441	R2FAV3OC1WB8Y3	1567182283	187573310	Pagans & Christians: The Personal Spiritual Experience	Books	5	32	32	N	N	trying to find some common ground	So much of modern Neo-Pagan literature published today is composed of oversimplified \\"how to\\" books.  There is little if nothing published about the philosophical components of the Neo-Pagan religions.<br /> DiZerega works very hard to build a common ground of terms and ideas from which interfaith dialogue can emerge.  diZerega respects the beliefs of  both Christians and Pagans as \\"unique and valuable\\" ways of knowing \\"the Sacred,\\" a view that invites not just tolerance but genuine interest in learning from one another.<br />Rather than falling back on pseudo-history to explain why Pagans believe as they do, DiZerega uses his Ph.D. in political science and his fifteen years as a Gardnerian to deconstruct Pagan theology and philosophy in ways that make them easily accessible to both Pagans and non Pagans.<br />The first part of this book discusses the Neo-Pagan worldview.  Topics range form perception of time and ethics to conceptions of the divine.  I found this section to be highly informative and easy to digest.<br />The second part of this book, \\"Christian Criticisms of Wicca,\\" discusses and attempts to answer many of the issues a lot of Christians have about Wicca and other Neo-Pagan religions. DiZerega discusses the nature of suffering and evil, spiritual authority, ethics and morality, clergy, and more. He answers the standard Christian objections with respect and with numerous quotes from the Bible. While this section is unlikely to convince many Fundamentalist Christians that Pagans are not following Satan it is well thought out and would hopefully be well received by a majority of non-Fundamentalist Christians.<br />The third section of Pagans & Christians addresses the some of issues Pagans often have with Christianity the perception that Christians are intolerant of others. DiZerega explains how most of the objections many Pagans have with Christianity simply aren't supported by the Bible and Christian tradition. In other words, many of the problems Pagans have with Christianity aren't really with the teachings of Christianity in general, but with the teachings of a relatively small number of fundamentalist Christian sects who shout down the larger, open-minded groups.<br />DiZerega does not pretend to have all the answers, but sets the reader on the path of finding his or her own answers.	2003-03-24
US	52847441	R2O6HEMCA6YVOB	1582970262	190749216	The Writer's Complete Fantasy Reference	Books	1	234	256	N	N	incomplete	Every so often I am griped by the strange delusion that I am an author on the verge of writing a great novel. It was in one of these states that I ordered \\"The Writer's Complete Fantasy Reference. Upon receiving the book my first thought was that it was much thinner than I had imagined it would be. My worries that the book was less than complete were confirmed in reading just a few pages.  I recognize that one book could not hope to fully cover the various worlds of high fantasy and the background necessary to create a viable fantasy world. Yet I had hoped for so much more than what was presented here. <BR>The book seems to suffer from many problems the most prominent is that it has a very bad case of bad editing.  The book is obviously a collection of articles that have appeared elsewhere and they lack any sort of overall cohesion.  <br />The chapter on medieval Europe, the traditional fantasy setting, is severely lacking. It begins with a discussion of feudalism, leaving out the fact that feudal monarchies differed in structure and power from place to place.   The feudal system of twelfth century Bavaria looked nothing like the system in place in England.   Worse the book provides the impression that the singular kind of feudalism presented was the only governing system in use. The chapter includes a short list of titles of royalty but there is no indication of how these various personages would fit together to form a ruling class. What exactly is the difference between a Baronet and a Viscount?  Who has more power a Marchioness or a Duke? What kind of social or economic benefits do these titles provide?  None of these questions were answered.  Additionally there is no indication of hierarchy among the nobles. Three is no indication of how nobles might interact with those of lesser stations. Would the lady of the manor speak directly to the goatherd or would she speak through an intermediary? Missing entirely is a discussion of day to day activities for peoples ofvarious classes. <br />The chapter on commerce, trade and law contained NO information on trade or commerce. Information about goods and raw materials valuable enough to justify the cost of shipping them across a continent are sadly lacking.  There is a rather extensive list of occupations characters might have in a fantasy novel, the list is in fact the bulk of this chapter. The discussion of law was limited to a list of possible punishments one might expect to endure. We are provided with no clue as to what crimes might be connected to these punishments. What was a flogging offense compared to what constitutes and death sentence?  There exists no discussion of just who enforced the laws, what sort of court system existed and the like are ignored.  Most disappointing of all is the lack of information on the connection between the religious sect of society and the legal system. <br />Orson Scott Card in his highly recommended book  \\"How to Write Science Fiction &Fantasy\\"  provided more information of magic and magical systems in one sentence than this book managed to provided in 67 pages. His one sentence was \\"What is the price of magic?\\" Novels of high fantasy are overrun with magical systems, many of them making no sense what so ever, yet the complete reference book does not address this issue in the least. In the sections on magic we are treated to yet another lengthy list of Native American power animals, forms of divination, possible magical powers your wizards could have and the like. In a book seemingly devoted to being a reference of high fantasy writing I had to pause to wonder why I was reading about the modern Neo-Pagan religion. There was page after page devoted to information on Wicca, Wiccan ritual structure, Gerald Gardner, the Church of All Worlds, Neo-Viking traditions and other modern Pagan organizations. What these have to do with sword and sorcery fantasy writing is beyond me. My only thought is that the editor's felt the book was to short and had this article just lying around. <br />The chapter on fantasy races seems more a half hearted run down of what famous authors have envisioned races such as Dwarves and Elves would be like.  A discussion of history  or mythology of these races would have been far more useful.<br />The chapter on creatures of myth and legend is yet another list of magical creatures.  The list is neither informative nor very helpful.<br />The book is a collection of disjointed articles and their sum does not make a whole. The pieces are disconnected in style and substance.	2003-03-23
US	52847441	R17HZ3SEFZ5I00	0553381709	549456361	A Storm of Swords: A Song of Ice and Fire: Book Three	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Winter comes closer	The prologue sets the tone by laying out the fate of the men of the Night Watch who had gone beyond the Wall. From there Martin quickly reintroduces his characters and his multiple story lines moving from viewpoint character to viewpoint character as the story unfolds.  While the focus of the book is on the political intrigues of the Seven Kingdoms much of the action has shifted to the northern wastes beyond the great wall and the tragic turn of events for the men of the night watch.  A surprise is the use of Samwell as a viewpoint character.  Samwell is the ultimate un-hero, describing himself as fat cowardly and inept he somehow manages to stay not only alive but a player in events north of the wall.   <br />Across the sea with Daenerys Targaryen has emerged as a character and a power to contend with.  She has grown form an abused little girl to a queen in exile.   Her dealings with the slave traders gives insight into her character and offers a growing number of possibilities as to how she, her three dragons  and her now massive army of former slaves will fit into the political struggle going on in the Seven Kingdoms.  <br />The war goes well for the easy to hate Lannisters and poorly for the sympathetic Starks.  Even though he has won every battle he has fought, Robb Stark's position continues to weaken, he literally wins every battle he fights but in process is loosing the war.<br />Mr. Martin is as unflinchingly honest about the brutal reality that forms the heart of the chivalrous world he has created. No characters are safe from death, disfigurement, betrayal or their own mistakes.  Mr. Martin does not save his characters or his readers feelings about these characters by saving them at the last minute from their fates.   The gray morality continues and one is never certain who to root for.<br />\\"A Storm of Swords\\" also expands on the magical aspects of the elaborate world Martin has built.  Magic and the supernatural were quietly hinted at in the first two volumes of the series and are finally coming into play.  Most impressively, Mr. Martin manages to blend in these magical elements without losing any of the gritty realism that has been a hallmark of the series so far.  <br />Like its predecessors, \\"A Storm of Swords\\" is packed with special details, the sights and sounds and smells of life in a retooled Middle Ages setting. It is a complicated and sprawling attempt to portray an entire world and a myriad of events; despite this it never loses sight of the mundane lives of the individual characters.<br />Mr. Martin has promised that this series will continue for six books.  However I am wondering if he can successfully pull that particular rabbit out of the hat.  The sheer number of major plot elements beckon for more space to develop and this does not include the ever expanding number of sub-plots.  Given the stories emphasis on the number seven, seven kingdoms, seven deities and so on, I suspect that there will be a total of seven books in this series.	2002-12-20
US	52847441	R7DX5MO7EQ0XX	0892817003	486124268	The Cosmic Tribe Tarot	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Stunning and evocative	The Cosmic Tribe Tarot breathes new life into tarot imagery.  Far to many decks seem to be pale imitations of things that have come before.  Some decks try to draw us into the past or mythology but most simple repeat older designs without reflecting on their meaning in our modern world.  The Cosmic Tribe Tarot seeks to restore the bond between spirituality and sexuality<br />Initially I was struck by the beauty, the movement, the startling images of the individual cards.  I enjoyed looking at them and admired the time and thought that went into their creation but I put them away thinking they were striking but most likely unreadable.  I was very wrong on that point; the deck is incredibly easy to read, meaning and insight seem to flow out of the images without strain.  It is now the first deck I reach for when I'm reading for myself.<br />Cosmic Tribe Tarot is based on designs by Alister Crowley it is a refreshing departure from the Rider Waite design that has saturated the market.  The pip cards are expressed not is storyboard scenes, which limit their possible interpretations, but in abstract designs that provide feeling of the mood of the card without forcing an explanation.  The Wands are rowdy and energetic; they done in are deep reds and oranges, fire and a feeling of expansion dominate. The Swords run the gambit from light to disturbingly dark, they are done in cool blues and green; the swords are all sharp and their wielders fly among the clouds. The Cups have a dream like quality are depicted in deep blues; they are fluid, magical, and merfolk abound lending a fantasy feeling. The Disks are both somber and lighthearted and decorated with flowers, trees, gemstones and even mud. The court cards all express individual and unique personalities.  <br />The Major Arcana cards are of course magnificent.  The Magician is a more playful and less serious than he is in most decks, giving this card a slightly different twist. The Hanged Man is seen from below giving the impression that he is reaching for the reader.  This Hermit is one of the most evocative cards in the deck.  The Hermit stands at the doorway to the underworld with Cerebus, the three headed dog at his side holding his lantern aloft, casually, but he himself is the doorway showing us that the path lies within. The Tower is a tall construct of burning televisions.  Of special note is the Lovers, the deck includes three separate variations of this card, one with two men, one with two women, and one with a man and a woman.  The simple acknowledgement that different people have different romantic orientations puts this deck far above any other.  The reader can choose from the three versions, or use all three and assign different meanings to them. <br />The deck uses nudity as one of its primary elements and as a key part of its design. Nudity should not be confused with eroticism.  The nudity is artistic, tasteful and within the context of the cards. All genders and body types are portrayed. The use of live models serves to make the images personal. At first glance this would seem to take away from the archetypal imagery that one expects from a good deck of cards, however in use the fact that the images are personal provides more immediate meaning.  The models are of all sizes and ages and all are extraordinarily beautiful, my only complaint, and it is a small one, is the lack of racial diversity among the models.<br />No collection of tarot decks would be complete with out the \\"Cosmic Tribe Tarot.\\"	2002-12-12
US	52847441	RAIZFB9861236	0671040774	596893174	Centauri Dawn (Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri, Book 1)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	more twilight	I stumbled across this book by accident browsing on one of my favorite bookstores.  I have played the game \\"Alpha Centauri\\" and enjoyed the complexity and the depth of it and was excited at the prospect of a novel based on its premise and its characters<br />Any book based on a video game is bound to have some difficulties but the sheer scope of `Alpha Centauri\\" should have provided a fertile groundwork for a book many times the size of this novel.  Mr. Ely manages to shrink the setting and the situation is size and scope rather than expand it.  <br />Colonists on the spaceship Unity have fled a dying earth to establish a life on Chiron, a planet orbiting Alpha Centauri.  After enduring forty years of interstellar travel they arrive at their destination but before landfall the ship falls to infighting and possible sabotage. The Unity's seven escape pods having landed well apart from each other across the uncharted new planet, and seven infant societies are formed around each of their charismatic leaders and social ideals.<BR>The seven factions are:<BR>Gaia's Stepdaughters a faction of environmentalists<BR>The Human Hive a police state based on atheistic communism.<BR>Morgan Industries a society based on industrialization and free market ideals.<BR>The Lord's Believers a religious society opposed to science and materialism.<BR>Peacekeepers  a collection of bureaucrats. <BR>The Spartans military oriented survivalists.<BR>The University of Planet a faction of scientists and researchers<br />Missing is the book is the construction of the colonies and the interplay between factions.  I believe Mr. Ely missed a great opportunity to explore the view of this new world from the average citizen of these factions.  Say for example not every one was correctly sorted into the differing faction pods when the colonies were first established, how does a sentimentally minded scientist cope with living with the fanatical Believers?  <br />The book is largely about the conflict between the Peacekeepers faction and the Spartans.  Here the Peacekeepers were painted too much to be the good guys to be believable and the Spartans seem to be there simply to provide a face to the enemy.  The Spartans became more of a characterization of our current societies fear of militias and terrorists then a possible society.  Rather than a society where the strong lead and prosper Mr. Ely paints a society of sociopaths who kill any they view as weak.<br />Missing entirely is any sense of wonder tat the landscape of Chiron or its native flora and fauna.  Also missing is the sense that the book is taking place in the future.  True lasar guns are tossed around but there is no sense that this is taking place far away from what we daily experience.  <br />While I did enjoy reading this book I do not feel compelled in any way to seek out the next two books in the trilogy.	2002-12-11
US	52847441	R21LNMIJGB6SDG	0812570693	709703711	Brotherhood of the Wolf (The Runelords, Book Two)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Highly recommended	It took some time before the action picked up, but once it did the tension never let up. It was a great read.  The pace of the story continues at breakneck speed.  The events all take place over a little more than three days.  The fast pace of the events lends a sense of urgency to the book.  <br />The characterization has improved with each of the main characters becoming more fully fleshed out.  Gaborn's stubborn insistence on torturing himself for his inability to protect all of his people can be tiresome however.  One thing I noticed that is so often missing from other fantasy novels is the inclusion of minor characters that have real personalities and real motivations.  So often these one scene characters are used just to push a plot line along or to give the main characters something to do.  I found the elderly woman who refused to leave her home in Sylvarresta touching and fascinating, there are dozens of very minor characters that are more than just two dimensional they resonate as fully formed characters in their own right.   <br />The system of magic is fully developed and internally consistent. The concept of using 'endowments' from donors to strengthen human attributes is both a plausible magic system and useful in defining the military actions undertaken by both Gaborn and Ahtan. Farland thrusts Gaborn and his other point-of-view characters from one dilemna to the next, never giving them or the reader the opportunity to pause or put the book down<br />I look forward to learning more about dedicants and what motivates people to cripple themselves for the sake of another.  It would be very interesting to have a viewpoint character wrestling with the decision to provide an endowment and gain some understanding of what that means to that person and why they would do such a things.<br />One of the emerging strengths of this series seems to be the inhuman Reavers.  Rather than simply making them mindless evil monsters Mr. Farland is providing them with a society, a history and a form of magic unique to them.  Wile I doubt that these creatures could ever become sympatric it is good that we are given an insight into what their world is like and why they are invading the surface world at all.  <br />Another strong aspect is the character of Raj Ahtan. In my review of the first book \\"Runelordes,\\" I complained that Raj Ahtan was a little too stereotypical in his hunger for power and glory; this has been corrected as we learn more about this man's history and his obsession with becoming the sum of all men.  <br />It is a rare achievement when the quality of a series goes up with the publication of the second book.	2002-12-11
US	52847441	R2PUHAY6KFGD8I	0192100246	954541581	Think: A Compelling Introduction to Philosophy	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Thinking is not as easy as it once was	Blackburn has written this book as a defense of philosophy as a practical tool for making sense of the world in which we live. To be perfectly frank making sense of the world is a relatively difficult task.  <BR>Rather than discuss the history of philosophy Mr. Blackburn turns his attention to the topics of philosophy: Does free exist, is there a god, how do we know what we know.  <br />Over its two thousand year-history, the philosophical tradition hasn't come a long way toward answering these big questions.  What it has done, however, is give thinkers methods for revealing obvious fallacies in a whole range of arguments.<BR>\\"Think\\" is designed to give the general reader access to some of the methods and ideas developed by thinkers from Descartes onward. What the book does not do is give the reader any prefabricated answers to these Big questions. Mr. Blackburn is less interested in giving us the answers than he is in showing us how to approach the questions. Although he occasionally offers his own opinion, he is careful to show that there is no easy way to access philosophical truth.	2002-12-03
US	52847441	R9B4MFPAO2PB8	0192100521	305216397	Being Good: A Short Introduction to Ethics	Books	5	26	29	N	N	Good enough	\\"Being Good: A Short Introduction to Ethics\\" is just that, a slim volume about the philosophy of ethics and how philosophers think about this subject.  It is an introduction for people who are brave (or fooligh) enough to dare to ask \\"Why be good?\\".  Far to few people it seems have bothered to ask this question or assumed there is a patent answer without ever taking that answer out into the daylight to examine it.  <BR>Thinking ethically isn't done in a vacuum, it is of a process. When faced with an ethical problem, how do you seek a solution? Do you try to maximize the good for the most people? Do you try to identify universal laws and then try to follow them? Do you seek the advice of authority figures or authoritative books?<BR>The text is split into three distance parts, the first addresses what Mr. Blackburn refers to \\"threats to ethics.\\" These threats include relativism, skepticism, nihilism, challenges to free will, and altruism.  Threats are largely those things which suggest that there is no real reason to be good at all; it's just something we as a people do.  With each topic, he explains why they do not make ethics \\"impossible\\" after all.  Mr. Blackburn explains how religion's declining influence does not harm ethical thinking, in fact he views this in a positive light in that without religion frees us to make independent choices, rather than to simply be automatons. Relativism is a more serious challenge, but when taken to its logical conclusion relativism refutes itself and removes the arguer from the conversation altogether.<br />The second section discusses particular attitudes about ethical issues including birth, death, desire and the meaning of life, pleasure, the greatest happiness of the greatest number, freedom from the bad, freedom and paternalism, and rights and natural rights.   This second section is the weakest and seems to be ill connected to the other two.  This weakness is there despite the fact that the author is talking about such hottopics as abortion and euthanasia.<br />The third section looks at the larger question of whether the idea of ethics rests on anything at all.  This I believe is the topic that unsettles most people.  The thinking goes that without a basis there is no reason for ethics.  Mr. Blackburn shows this to not be the case.  Mr. Blackburn believes people should actively engage in ethical dialogue in an effort to arrive at a common point of view for making ethical decisions. This of course means that there is no guarantee that such conversation will be successful, but at least there is a chance, and without such a dialogue, there is no chance at all. <br />The book is demanding of its reader.  It demands that one actually look at one's ethical system and see it for what it is.	2002-12-03
US	52847441	R1PAJS7ZQW84WU	0812548051	361278280	Wizard's First Rule (Sword of Truth, Book 1)	Books	2	7	10	N	N	Not the worst book I have ever read, but close.	Contains enough clichés to choke a unicorn.  A low born but honest man destined for greatness.  A princess (Priestess) in distress with a terrible secret.  The most gifted wizard in the world join together to stop an evil tyrant from destroying the world.  There is the obligatory quest to find the mythical and magical item of great power.  The evil tyrant is all powerful and the only person in the world who can stop him is of course the aforementioned low born but honest man.<br />Richard, Kahlan and Zedd all have secrets they are unwilling to share with the other two.  Page after page is devoted to each character's angst about the fact that they can't tell the other.  The effect is rather like watching a rerun of \\"Three's Company\\" if the characters wodl just spill the beans we would be put through a lot less horrible dialoge and maybe something resembling a story would have developed.<BR>The characters all lack any semblance of a personality.  The incredibly evil Darken Rahl has no personality or motivations whatsoever.   Will fantasy authors ever realize that villains don't see themselves as evil and that they do what they do because they truly believe that it is for the good of all.  Two dimensional villains are neither frightening nor interesting.   The Hero Richard suffers from the same problems; he is undeveloped and annoying in his humble goodness.  When he's not fighting his way through some pointless quest, he spends most of the time wallowing in self pity and wishing things were different, yet despite all his wishing he never once acts to in a way that would help him change his situation or improve his lot in life.<BR>Richard is declared `the Seeker\\" early in the book.  What is not explained very well is just what \\"the Seeker\\" is or why it is so important.  Being named \\"the Seeker\\" entitles one to the Sword of truth and an inflated ego; \\"I AM The Seeker\\" is said and thought by Richard more often than I could count.  What does being a seker mean?  Apparently not much.  <br />I would like to say that I think it is entirely possible to take a pile of fantasy clichés and turn them into a good story. Mr. Goodkind did not do this however.  A book filled with boring characters, pointless quests, horrible dialogue, unimaginative landscapes and no true purpose to the story just makes the clichés stand out all the more. <br />There are many other books out there that are entertaining but don't bore or insult the reader.	2002-12-02
US	52847441	RQYK8ALBIQ5HR	0553579908	153810577	A Clash of Kings (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	cold brutality, unforgivable treachery	George R.R. Martin lit a flame under the far to complacent seat of the fantasy genre with the publication \\"A Song of Ice and Fire\\" series.  Mr. Martin relies on characterization and intricate plotting to craft a fully believable world that grabs one's attention and pulls one fully into the lives and loves of the many characters presented.   In this second book of the series Mr. Martin maintains both the pace of the plotting and adds new and vibrant characters to the story.  This is one of the most original fantasy series I have ever had the pleasure of reading.<br />Martin juggles several distinct storylines: one tale follows Jon Snow and the events in the north as winter approaches; another follows the battle for supremacy of the Seven Kingdoms between four would-be-kings and their armies; and the third tells of the fate of Daenerys Targaryen, Mother of Dragons, a continent away. But three plotlines are not enough to contain Martin's vision.  There is the story of crippled Bran and his growing psychic abilities; his sister Sansa held hostage by the twisted boy King Joffrey and her continued abuse at the hands of the Lannisters.  There is Arya's struggle to return to Winterfell.  Minor characters from a \\"Game of Thrones\\" are brought to the forefront to provide even more depth and plot twists.  All these tales and dozens more are deftly interwoven to create a story about people not a story about the struggle of a few people to gain the throne of the Seven Kingdoms.  <br />The characters are never isolated form each other or their storylines.  Shifting from one viewpoint character to another not an uncommon way to tell a complex tale  but the trick is keeping the various story threads both interesting and interrelated.  Martin manages this trick like no other.  I appreciate the fact that viewpoint characters are present in the narratives of other's allowing us differing views of these fascinating people.  <br />The characters remain vibrant and intriguing.  Mr. Martinhas these characters, even the minor one's, change and grow as the story unfolds.  The lines between good and bad are blurred and no one in the book can be called truly good or truly bad.  There are characters that one loves to hate but given Mr. Martin's writing skills these characters will most likely change and cause us to reconsider them in a new light.  <br />In reading \\"A Game of Thrones\\" I was swept away by the grandeur and completes of the world Mr. Martin created.  The series, I am told, is loosely based on the \\"War of the Roses\\" and the land itself bears great resemblance to the British islands of that era.  The only thing missing from \\"A Game of Thrones\\" was a Christian analogy.  Mr. Martin has corrected this with the introduction of the Red Woman and the cult of `the one true god'. The standard of the flaming heart is a dead giveaway to the connection.  With the Red Woman, comes magic which many reviews have noted for it's absence in \\"A Game of Thrones.\\" <br />The greatest accomplishment of \\"A Song of Ice and Fire\\" is Mr. Martin's refusal to shy away from the unpleasant and brutal realities of the world he has created, a world that in many ways closely resembles our Europe of the Middle Ages. Royal families dedicated to incest, lying and scheming courtiers, appalling abuses of women and the poor, ugly and wholly frightening scenes of battle and war.  There are no chivalrous knights and no innocent princesses to be found.  The gallant and honest don't survive and whatever innocence an individual possess is soon corrupted.  Mr. Martin doesn't skirt discreetly around the issues or images and the story is all the stronger for it.  <BR>Yes there is a long wait between books.  However I would rather wait patiently and have a superb book than to have a mediocre work shoved into my hands once a year like clockwork.	2002-12-02
US	52847441	R1RKHXMMXLMY2W	0812505182	465915454	The Magic of Recluce (Recluce series, Book 1)	Books	1	14	20	N	N	Boring is as boring does	...However a well read fantasy loving friend pressed this book, and the next five in the series, into my hand saying that I must read this as soon as possible.  Works like fantastic, incredible and glorious were tossed around rather freely while my friend sang the books praises.   I am happy to say that  I finished \\"The Magic of Recluse\\" though it was difficult.   <br />Two sensations followed me as I read; bewilderment and boredom.  In the first three chapters we met Lerris and his family and their well ordered country.  Unfortunately I couldn't tell any of his relatives apart, the family members were at best two-dimensional and none of them seemed to have anything resembling a personality.  Lerris follows his family in this fashion.  Mr. Modesitt fails to create any compelling characters, they all lack any sort of depth and any sort of motivation.  As a side note I would like to say that I  am sick to death of characters \\"destined for greatness\\"  naturally it was not long before Lerris discovers the he is destined for greatness as an Order Master.  I'm not sure what qualifies one to be on Order Master, however  whining seems to be a prime requisite.  Lerris seems to spend most of his free time complaining.  I clearly remember reading  somewhere around page 25 and  Lerris was complaining (yet again) about how bored he was, I put the book down at that point because I was bored as well.  Only commitment to my friend and the idea that there must be something worthwhile in this novel brought me back to it.  I had a brief hope that once Lerris left his boring homeland island something interesting would happen.  That hope died rather quickly.   <br />There is an anticlimactic fight which according to the character simply had to happen though for the life of me I am at a loss to discover any reason at all as to why it had to happen.  Many people insist that the book does get better as it goes along but that does not make up for or excuse the first half of this book.<br />Many people have called the concepts Mr. Modesitt uses unique though I would be hard pressed to understand why.  From what I read I doubt the author had a grasp of just how his magic system would work.  It is a cumbersome system of magic but I do not think that being cumbersome qualifies it as unique.<br />I won't go into Mr. Modesitt's  attempts to provide sound effects in place of descriptive prose, other reviewers have made their feelings on this clear and I can add nothing no beyond my complaint that they are annoying and distracting.  <br />I recognize that first novels are often a little rough around the edges and I am willing to forgive an awful lot  of clumsy prose and plotting blunders in exchange for a good story.  Mr. Modesitt fails to provide even a mediocre story and that fact just magnifies his poor technique.  Structurally there are significant problems,  Mr. Modesitt has the unfortunate habit of switching from past to present tense and from first to third person seemingly at random.  However the technical problems of his writing pale when compared to the lack of depth, mood and emotion Mr. Modesitt conveys in his writing.  <br />The book as a whole reads like a poorly plotted first draft. I am amazed the editors at TOR published this at all.	2002-11-21
US	52847441	R27Z07CIENOY7U	0812574729	245512363	Into the Darkness (World at War, Book 1)	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Mediocre history and poor fantasy	\\"Into the Darkness\\" presents an intriguing concept.  After a generation of peace, the world of Derlavai is on the brink of yet another global war.  In this world Magic takes the place of technology and magical beasts functions as weapons of war.  Airplanes are replaced by dragons, submarines by leviathans and tanks by behemoths.  Mr. Turtledove is basically present World War II in a fantasy context.  Unfortunately the result is far less than the promise of the concept.<br />Mr. Turtledove tells his story from no less than sixteen different viewpoint characters and dozens of secondary characters.  With such a cast no one character stays center stage for any length of time and as a result there is little or no character development.  There is very little to distinguish one character from another and one setting from another.  The result is that every few page the POV changes and one has to stop reading and try to figure out just who the character is and where they are before one can continue reading.  The characters and the landscape would have been easier to follow if M. Turtledove has used a real world map and historic characters plugged into a world where magic substitutes for technology.  Instead we are left to figure out that Algarve is a stand in for Germany and Valmiera is there in place of France and so on.  <br />\\"Into the Darkness\\" is the first novel of a projected six-book series but I cannot see how any sort of interest could be maintained for five more books like this one.	2002-11-21
US	52847441	R3MGYJEHG2CI0G	0451458435	279127262	Dreamer: A Novel of the Silent Empire	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Dreaming in Silence	\\"Dreamer\\" by Steven Harper marks the beginning of a new science fiction series.  The start is very promising and one can only hope that the interesting story elements have a chance to grow and mature into a truly memorable series.  <BR>There are several unique things in \\"Dreamer\\" first among them is the lead character Kendi, a deep and caring telepath of Aboriginal descent.  So many main characters who dominate most of science fiction/fantasy novels are basic wasp that it is refreshing to see a minority character used to such good effect<br />Hard core SF fans will enjoy the intriguing notion of universe where interplanetary society is held together by the telepathic skills of genetically engendered individuals, called silent.  Unfortunately most parts of the galaxy silent are slaves.  <BR>Dreamer is not without it's problems however first is the often stilted dialogue.  Several times the story is told through journal entries of young Sejal however I found this to be distracting from the story line.  The more significant issue is the fact that the initial plot line is resolved halfway through the book leaving the main characters with little or nothing to do.  A secondary plot about the dream world being ripped apart by tortured children just doesn't grab the attention the way the search for Sejal did.  <BR>It is fortunate that Mr. Harper's second book of the series \\"Nightmare\\" resolves this works structural difficulties.  <BR>All in all a good book worth seeking out.	2002-11-16
US	52847441	R366WEPUOVR6LS	0895947366	768877570	Essential Reiki: A Complete Guide to an Ancient Healing Art	Books	4	114	131	N	N	read with an open hart and critical mind	Ms. Stein broke with tradition by publishing the five healing symbols of Reiki.  Prior to the publication of this book the symbols were passed only from teacher to student.  This breaking of silence caused no small amount of controversy in the Reiki community.  I understand and agree with Ms. Stein's reasoning for publishing the symbols, the modern world is in such need of healing that positive energy, no matter what it's source, is a welcome relief<br />Please understand that the process Ms. Stein discusses has very little to do with the traditional teachings of Reiki.  This does not make it bad in and of itself however.  The process of Reiki is one of healing and growth, and growth implies changes.  Would Mikao Usui  have approved of the publishing of the Reiki symbols?  Of course not.  Remember however Usui was equally opposed to teaching Reiki to non-Japanise and insisted that money exchange hands to provide the gift of healing.  We are fortunate that these aspect of his teaching fell by the wayside and I believe there will come a  day when we will all be happy that the secrecy element of Reiki has ended as well.  <br />The book provides a strange but complete history of Reiki as well as instructions for passing attunements, a system of laying on of hands for healing and extensive philosophical discussion as to the origin of Reiki energy<BR>Of particular interest in the inclusion of the attunement process itself.  The process is fully explained from the view of the receiver as well as the one providing the attunement.<br />Despite it's good points the book has serious problems.  These problems relate to Ms. Stein's worldview and political outlook.  Throughout this book Ms. Stein's dislike (hatred? Fear? Loathing?) of men is palatable on nearly every page.   It is made clear that she does not believe most men are capable of healing in any form.  Her intolerance made the book almost unreadable<br />Part of the healing process is the healing of the self.  As a therapist I understand that to help others you must have some sort of handle on your own issues and problems.  To walk in balance you must resolve your personal issues.  If you are unable to resolve these issues yourself than you need to seek professional help.  Ms. Stein points out that love and hate cannot co-exist in the same body and not have negative consequences yet has apparently never followed her own advice.<br />Read the book, recognize hatred when you see it and pass it over, take the lessons of universal love and healing to hart.	2002-11-15
US	52847441	R1H5YANZOC740U	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Fantasy but no Fairly Tale	Rather than call this a fantasy book for adults I would like to think of this as a fantasy book for people who think.  There is a difference.<br />I read with some surprise some of the more critical reviews of A Game of Thrones there were complaints of graphic sex scenes and gratuitous violence.  I couldnt find any graphic sex scenes.  Sex was presented but it was not graphic or gratuitous, I thought it was a little refreshing; far too many fantasy books avoid sex like the plague.  I also found far less violence in this book than in most other fantasy novels where anything that is inhuman or ugly is hacked apart with massive swords by the beautiful people.<br />The book is about politics, which sounds horrifically boring but is presented in such a way as to make the intricacies of court and the multitude of players become vivid and real.  A Game of Thrones tells an epic tale of honor and treachery, love and vengeful hatred, intrigue and heroism set in a world where summers and winters can last for years, even lifetimes.  The main story line involves Eddard Stark, lord of Winterfell, and his investigation into the death of another noble.  Along the way there are dozens of interwoven plots, subplots and fascinating characters.<br />This is not a book about conflict between the elemental forces of good and evil.  Rather than a drab world of black and white  Mr. Martin has opted for a more realistic world of grays and innumerable colors.  Rather than having simplified reasoning for actions the characters all have understandable motives or at least understandable rationalizations for their actions.  This is a feature lacking in 95% of other fiction I have read.<br />A Game of Thrones is filled with interesting, fully fleshed out characters.  I searched in vane for cardboard or clich&eacute;d characters and every time I thought I found one I was proven wrong as these characters developed and grew in front of my eyes.<br />Attention to detail in creating the Kingdom of Westeros is remarkable. Westeros is a large island off the coast of the main continent (Think the British Isles) that was at one time divided into seven separate kingdoms but in present day is united under the banner of a single King.  These individual domains all have their particular customs, traditions and ruling classes.  The history of this land is presented with great care, one never feels lectured at or bored with background detail provided.<br />Magic is happily kept to a minimum.  This is a book about people and politics and intrigue, not about wizards tossing around bolts of lightning.  The minimal placement of magic and fantastic beings in the book serves to make their appearance all the more interesting and also serves to carry the story forward rather than solve all the characters problems with a wave of the hand.<br />I have the second and third installments of the series and am looking forward to the fourth book, reportedly due out in 2003ting the Kingdom of Westeros is remarkable. Westeros is a large island off the coast of the main continent (Think the British Isles) that was at one time divided into seven separate kingdoms but in present day is united under the banner of a single King.  These individual domains all have their particular customs, traditions and ruling classes.  The history of this land is presented with great care, one never feels lectured at or bored with background detail provided.  <br />Magic is happily kept to a minimum.  This is a book about people and politics and intrigue, not about wizards tossing around bolts of lightning.  The minimal placement of magic and fantastic beings in the book serves to make their appearance all the more interesting and also serves to carry the story forward rather than solve all the characters problems with a wave of the hand.  <br />I have the second and third installments of the series and am looking forward to the fourth book, reportedly due out in 2003	2002-11-15
US	52847441	R8E1GRRHXV09R	0451458982	531507911	Nightmare:: A Book of the Silent Empire	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Where nightmares come true	It is rare that the second book in the series is an improvement rather than a disappointment.  Far too often I have read the second book in a series or trilogy and been let down either by a dragging or faltering storyline or worse the failure of the author to expand on his/her original premise.  Not so with Steven Harper's \\"Nightmare\\"   his second book in his \\"Silent Empire\\" series.  \\"Nightmare is not a sequel but rather a prequel.  It is the story of the main character of \\"Dreamer, Kendi Weaver  as a slave and then as a student.<br />Twelve year old Kendi expects to awaken from cryogenic sleep on a colony world where he and his family anticipate recreating Australian aboriginal society.  However 900 years have passed while the colonists slept and they awoke to find themselves being sold into slavery.  Sold as a laborer Kendi spends several years on a frog farm when a chance meeting reveals him to be one of the Silent.  The Silent are telepaths with the ability to communicate with other telepaths across the galaxy.  The Silent do this by entering the Dream, a world entirely composed of the collective unconscious and practically anything is possible.  Being Silent means Kendhi is now extraordinarily valuable and his owner announces she will see Kendhi immediately.   Facing yet another slave auction Kendi is rescued and freed by Mother Ara of the Children of Irfan, a monastic order, dedicated to teaching the Silent to use their abilities. Kendi is transported to the Planet Bellerophon, home of the Children of Irfan.  <br />Kendhi begins his training in the use of his abilities with the Children of Irfan as a free person. However, he is haunted by the memories of his parents and siblings who are still slaves somewhere.  His guilt at being free leads him to act out in the worst of teenage ways.  Worse, there is a vicious serial killer stalking the Dream using individual's dreamscapes as weapons and Kendi's savior and teacher, Mother Ara, appears to be next on the murder's menu.  Mixed in with all this is Kendi's ongoing struggle with his emerging homosexuality.<br />Mr. Harper creates vivid, fully formed characters that attach themselves to your memory and stay.  I remember teenage angst and I believe that few authors can vividly recreate that worst of life phases.  Mr. Harper expresses that age life few others I have read.  Background exposition is fed into the storyline without interrupting the story.  Mr. Harper also pulls off quite a feat in surprising readers with the true identity of the murder.  <br />Mr. Harper has left a gap in time between the end of \\"Nightmare\\" and the beginning f his first book in the series, \\"Dreamer\\" leaving time for (hopefully)another story of Kendhi's youth.	2002-11-05
US	52847441	R1JPHE4LWSK2FH	0801038227	617426571	Christian Apologetics	Books	3	13	25	N	N	stong start but falters at the finish	The book is composed of three parts, methodology, theistic apologetics and finally Christian apologetics.  In the first section one Mr. Geisler presents and tests different apologetic methodologies, here he works very hard to demonstrate that skepticism and agnosticism are self-refuting and having `proven' that turns his attention to testing various worldviews  (rationalism, fideism, experientialism, evidentialism, pragmatism and combinationalism), not surprisingly he finds them all wanting.  He settles on the fact that theism is the only worldview that is logical.<br />In the second part of the book, Geisler exposes specific worldviews (Deism, Pantheism, Panentheism, Atheism and Theism).  Geisler presents short synopsis of the tenants of each worldview and presents their positives points as well as their negative ones.  Ultimately however he finds that all of those listed above are inferior to the Christian worldview.  Often his conclusions are based on the fact that the worldview is inferior BECASUSE it is not a Christian worldview, according to the framework of truth testing he set up in the first section of the book this is not an appropriate argument yet he quietly goes about using it.<br />While Mr. Geisler attempts to present both sides of an argument about world view.  The positive traits of non-Christian worldviews are listed along with the negatives. One is left with the feeling that he wasn't trying all that hard to present any other worldview in with the vigor that its adherents would.  Importatn parts of opposing worldview have gone missing.  Of particular note was the second section involving worldviews was his critique of Panentheism.  Mr. Geisler declares, without actually showing, that the Panentheistic God is a finite one.  Issues addressing these arguments have been fully addressed and addressed quite well in the works of Shepard.<br />Geisler finds the only rational choice of thinking and of worldview is that of theism, again no surprise.  However being a Christian he must go one step further and show that all forms of theism is not equal, that it is only Christianity that is true and rejecting the Judaism and Islam. This is the third section of the book.<br />The first and the second parts of this book are rather abstract and philosophical, and somewhat dry.  They are obviously prepared for individuals who have some grounding in philosophy and/or apologetics.<br />Third portion of the book is by far the part with the least foundation.  Geisler takes more than a few liberties with history and draws conclusions that left me scratching my head. One of the stranger notions he presents is that history is objective.  He verifies this claim by informing us that historians make accurate value judgments when deciding what happened and where and why it happened.  In the first section Mr. Geisler spent a great deal of time and energy laying the groundwork for describing adequate tests of truth yet he virtually ignores what he has written in the third section.<br />The book is recommended for its first section, the vigorous outlining of objective thinking.  However as the book progresses it becomes less effective in its arguing and more suspect in its logic.wever being a Christian he must go one step further and show that all forms of theism is not equal, that it is only Christianity that is true and rejecting the Judaism and Islam. This is the third section of the book.<br />The first and the second parts of this book are rather abstract and philosophical, and somewhat dry.  They are obviously prepared for individuals who have some grounding in philosophy and/or apologetics.<br />Third portion of the book is by far the part with the least foundation.  Geisler takes more than a few liberties with history and draws conclusions that left me scratching my head. One of the stranger notions he presents is that history is objective.  He verifies this claim by informing us that historians make accurate value judgments when deciding what happened and where and why it happened.  In the first section Mr. Geisler spent a great deal of time and energy laying the groundwork for describing adequate tests of truth yet he virtually ignores what he has written in the third section.<br />The book is recommended for its first section, the vigorous outlining of objective thinking.  However as the book progresses it becomes less effective in its arguing and more suspect in its logic.	2002-10-28
US	52847441	R2CLW84878JSSX	0743412346	209608496	Sir Apropos of Nothing	Books	5	0	1	N	N	great  fun	\\"Those who are evil have virtues: those who are good have flaws.\\"   This theme runs through \\"Sir Apropos of Nothing\\" from almost the first page.  Heroic knights are depicted as marauding rapists, the distressed princess is a sociopath arsonist   and the ultimate hero of the book is a lying con artists.   In other words the characters were very true to life.   While Apropos, the main character, might have some virtues they are few and very well hidden.  He is selfish, conniving, lecherous, dishonest, lazy and consumed with his own self interest, and those are his virtues.  <br />Apropos is not a hero by anyone's standards, even his own.  He hates heroes; he dislikes people who do good deeds out of principle, he despises people who are pure of hart because they annoy him (don't we all?).  He hates them not just because he doesn't understand them but because he cannot understand them.  At first his inability to care about the affairs of anyone but himself worries him but the feeling is fleeting and he soon recovers to go on about his self-serving way.  His self-serving way leads him to become a squire and assigned to guard the books princess.  He almost starts to think things are finally going his way when disaster strikes and he comes to terms with the fact that this story was not supposed to be about him at all<br />I enjoyed the concept of a minor character hijacking (literally) a heroic story from the more than perfect hero.  Apropos realizes his childhood friend (though Apropos would deny he ever actually liked the annoying do-gooder) is the hero touched by destiny to accomplish great things.  He grasps the fact that he was just a minor character in the hero's grand tale, someone to whom the hero can be benevolent towards because that's what hero's do.  Upon having this epiphany Apropos snaps bludgeons the hero to within an inch of his life and hijacks the Hero's newly hatched phoenix and goes off to rescue the princess himself.  Rescuing princesses is easier saidthan done however.  Hero's have a knack for doing that sort thing princess rescuing that the rest of us just don't have.  Apropos finds out all to well that rescuing princesses is usually far more trouble than the princess is worth.<br />The book is funny, irreverent and full of some of the worst puns I have ever had to suffer through.  <BR> <BR>The only flaw I found in Mr. David's book was that he made Apropos entirely to much an anti-hero.  While I sympathized with the slimy little twerp, and cheered when he beat up the obnoxious hero, I still had so much trouble actually liking him.<br />There are few who will admit that we are more like Apropos than not.  Perhaps that is why I enjoyed the little back stabbing cretin so much.<br />I am eagerly awaiting the arrival of the sequel `The Woad to Wuin\\" and I can only hope that this is one of those seven book trilogies.	2002-10-28
US	52847441	R31B06KY99EHDL	1879366754	190709604	Fourteen Things Witches Hope Parents Never Find Out	Books	1	38	53	N	N	Just how evil are the Smurfs?	Mr. Benoit is presented as having vast knowledge of the occult and New Age I am wondering just how he acquired such knowledge.  Im also wondering why, is if he is such an expert, is he so misinformed?<br />Lets start with a little house cleaning:  First Wiccans and  NeoPagans do not recruit new members much less working to recruit children, door to door enrollment is largely a Christina phenomena.  Wiccans and NeoPagans are not Satan worshipers.  Satanists are not in control of the media (if they were Im sure there would finally be something good on television).  I find it difficult to believe that Mr. Benoit does not know these things yet he chooses to ignore them in the writing of this book.  I would think that this would violate the basic Christian prohibition against baring false witness.  <br />Mr. Benoit had filled this book with his own paranoid delusions and fears. Some reviewers of his other books feel his writings are humerous, a joke. Writing like this stops being funny when the author is so obviously believes his own hate inspired fear based nonsense.<br />Finally I have to question the credibility and the sanity of anyone who uses the verbal meanderings of a three year old as proof of demonic possession.	2002-10-28
US	52847441	R17SY6TL5A1KP1	0767420489	732723199	How to Think About Weird Things: Critical Thinking for a New Age	Books	3	10	23	N	N	What is left to believe in?  Not an awful lot.	The art of critical thinking has almost disappeared from the western world.  Largely I think this is so because our society is constructed on the fact that most people are trained to not think for themselves.  The last thing anyone wants is for the population to start asking questions about religion, economics, and our political system.  If one starts asking questions one could find that the answers we have been fed may not have been entirely true.<br />Rather than address specific paranormal or strange ideas the authors present a formula for the reader to assess the ideas for themselves.  There are, of course, entire books devoted to assessing the value of pseudoscience, paranormal phenomena and similar things in which the basic principles of skeptical thought has been tossed out the window.  <br />What the author's have done that is most unusual is the way the concepts in this book are brought together. <br />This is not to say this is a perfect book.  I noted several times where the author's ignored their own rational system to arrive at conclusions.  The conclusions arrived at are universally in the realm of hard science triumphing over anything remotely paranormal.  The author's bias in favor of rationalism and against anything resembling spirituality is very evident.  <br />Read this book, but do so with a critical mind.	2002-10-28
US	52847441	R17WH06CZ7WQCZ	0385472595	763851566	The Tao Speaks: Lao-Tzu's Whispers of Wisdom	Books	5	6	6	N	N	teaches without teaching	I think it is fantastic that a book that is as enjoyable to read as the \\"Tao Te Ching\\" can be made even more so through the use of illustration and humor.  Tsai Chic Chung has faithfully adopted the text and lessons of  Taoism into this unassuming form ready to be enjoyed.<br />Attributed to the great Chinese philosopher Lao-Tzu, the \\"Tao Te Ching\\" has attracted generations of followers from across the world to its simple tenets of modesty, peace, and pragmatism.  <br />The most pleasant feature of this book is that it illustrates concepts clearly and cleanly.  Complex issues are brought home and made familiar.	2002-10-27
US	52847441	R14P3OXDEAWQ1G	1567180175	165662788	Meet Your Planets: Fun with Astrology	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Fun light read.	Given the complexities of astrology I applaud anyone who can make a very basic text like this both informative and interesting.  Mr. Alexander manages to take a unique idea, the planets as personalities and the signs as occupations, and provide just a bit of insight into the basics of astrology.  <br />This is not a book for the serious astrologer.  This is an adequate book for those seeking some insight into their own chart without having to engage in math or try to interpret some massive ephemeris.	2002-10-25
US	52847441	R25NL7L92XF7WF	1564145883	569113916	Tarot for Your Self, 2nd Edition: A Workbook for Personal Transformation	Books	5	173	176	N	N	There is no better book for beginner or experienced reader	I had read cards for several years without much enthusiasm or depth before stumbling across this book and the two companion books, &quot;Tarot Constellations&quot; and &quot;Tarot Mirrors&quot; (both sadly out of print).  The books were a turning point that allowed me to go beyond simply reciting memorized meanings of cards.<br />If you have no imagination or intuition this book will be frustrating.  If you require a book on tarot to tell you exactly what the author tells you exactly what how to interpret each card in three sentences or less you will not enjoy this book.   If you are a person who is unwilling to spend time reading, processing and doing some of the exercises presented you will hate this book.  Of course if you are one of those people one has to wonder just why you are reading Trot in the first place.  &quot;Tarot for Yourself&quot; is not a quick `how to read the tarot' book.  Ms. Greer asks you to think and process her ideas for yourself discarding what you don't find useful and adding your personal views to make reading cards a unique experience.  <br />Designed as a workbook &quot;Tarot for Yourself&quot; encourages you to expand your horizons with the method you use for reading.  I recommend this book often and suggest people take a year to read, practice and grow while working through the exercises.  Ms. Greer encourages you to discover your particular way of interpreting cards. &quot;Tarot for Yourself&quot; provides over a dozen spreads to spur your creativity and give you the information and confidence to create your own spreads. <br />The greatest message Ms. Greer imparts is `trust yourself.'	2002-10-25
US	52847441	R34NONVFFM7MVG	080956128X	556737667	Tarot Constellations: Patterns of Personal Destiny	Books	5	28	30	N	N	Seek this book out	In \\"Tarot for Yourself\\" Ms. Greer's first book in this series there is an exercise relating to creating a personality profile.  \\"Tarot Constellations\\" takes this simple exercise of connecting astrology and numerology to the tarot and expands it to a full length book.  Many ideas expanded in this method would suffer and the book would begin to feel like so much fluff, not so with \\"Tarot Constellations.\\"  <br />The constellations the title refers to the relationships between the major and minor arcane.  Their interconnectedness is expounded on and related in a manner that is both insightful and easy to internalize.  Ms. Greer provides some of the most in-depth personality interpretation I have found.  Her system tends to go into more detail than many texts on psychology.<br />The book is sadly out of print but it is well worth your time and effort to track down a copy for yourself.	2002-10-25
US	52847441	R2M8CRWZKJX29Y	1578630053	103735401	Feng Shui: Secrets That Change Your Life	Books	2	2	2	N	N	not enough to even call it an introduction	A full third of this book is given over to complex calculations regarding personal directions, which apparently change from year to year.  While I suppose this is interesting there is no assistance in applying the result of these calculations.  This is a theme carried on through the book.  There is not a great deal of information presented and when information is presented there is little in the way of suggestions or advice as to how to apply that information to your particular situation.	2002-10-25
US	52847441	R13CWEY71JEBIL	0553067966	986018672	The Simple Living Guide: A Sourcebook for Less Stressful, More Joyful Living	Books	5	78	82	N	N	Simple ideas lead to simple living	We dream of a good life, one that is not cluttered by mounting stress, by deadlines, by worries about money.  We dream of a more fulfilling way to live.  Unfortunately simple living is an art that one probably never truly achieves, but I think journey is far more important than the goal itself.  \\"The Simple Living Guide\\" is a guide to beginning your own journey to a simpler and more fulfilling life.  While the book can be read as a whole, cover to cover, it seems to read best when broken down into its individual chapters.  The reader is invited to begin their process of simplification where and when they are ready leaving other area for later.  I began my journey three years ago dealing with the clutter that I, and so many other Americans, gather around ourselves for no other reason than it is expected to have more than we need.  Cleaning and exorcising my home of useless kitchen appliances, clothes I could no longer wear, and  knick knacks pretending to be works of art was a painful process but one made easier by Ms. Luhrs book.  Cleaning out my home led me to simplify my budget, and  then to simplify my leisure activities, and most recently to simplify my career.  <br />Ms. Luhrs presents us with the fact that simplifying is a process. One cannot just simplify one area of life and call it good.  Every time you change and improve one area it radiates and effects every other area of your life.  For example once you start simplifying your budget to save money it leads you to question how you spend your time, where you live, your quality of life, even the birthday gifts you give.<br />The entire book is written in a warm, personal manner, often if feels as if one is having a conversation with the author rather than reading text.   The advice presented is not only practical advice but philosophic or spiritual advice as well.  Inner simplicity means thinking some thoughts that are occasionally rather deep.  The fact that there is philosophy presented in this book is nota detraction from the book but a distinct positive.  There are books about saving money and managing time out there but Ms. Luhrs asks us to pause a moment and ask just what we want from more money or more time.   Life changes are always easier when you have an idea of where you are going and why you are making the journey in the first place<br /> \\"The Simple Living Guide\\" invites you to take your time, to think about your life and to grow while you simplify.  What could be more simple?	2002-10-25
US	52847441	RX29PDY40YS9K	0880797215	459875563	Tarot Mirrors: Reflections of Personal Meaning	Books	5	71	71	N	N	The art of reading made accessible	\\"Tarot Mirrors\\" is the third book in Mary Greer's series on tarot reading.  It is by far the most in-depth of the series.  Like its two predecessors it is an invaluable tool for anyone wishing to develop a deeper understanding of the tarot. This is not a book that tells you card meanings and gives convoluted history to the supposedly ancient Celtic cross spread.  The book is an exercise in self discovery.  The book is also designed to deepen and expand one's ability as a reader.  Rather than rely on rote memorization, the exercises and theories presented serve to give you a foundation to build your own theories on.<br />The book is roughly divided into two parts.  The first section is on the art of interpretation, the second details a rather elaborate spread designed to expand the spiritual side of reading.  <br />The first section involves various methods of reading cards.  This process is almost universally ignored by other authors. Ability to ask basic questions of yourself or of the person you are reading for is key to providing the kind of in-depth reading most people desire.    Yet this is the first and only book I have seen where how to phrase questions one is asking of the cards is given anything more than a sentence.  Ms. Greer suggests that a reading is a process between two people much like therapy, questions lead to answers that in turn lead to new questions.  The process is an active one, not passive.     <BR>Identifies your particular style and works to expand that way of thinking into reading the cards.  The four methods of thinking/reading include analytic, psychic, therapeutic and magical.  Each has its own special quirks and each works slightly differently in processing a reading.  <br />The second portion of the book relates to what Ms. Greer calls `the star system' it is her reinterpretation of Eliphas Levi's thoughts on the Tarot.   This is not a reading to be done lightly or quickly.  I have used it to great success when dealing with deep rooted issues in my own life.  Ms. Greer pulls off a small miracle by making a complex and obscure spread appear understandable and easy to use.<br />While out of print this book is certainly worth the effort to find.  IT is an invaluable tool for anyone interested in Tarot.	2002-10-25
US	52847441	R1G28Q1XM8G62R	006250925X	333552374	The Woman's Encyclopedia of Myths and Secrets	Books	2	26	39	N	N	Very questionable	I will not go into the details of the poor scholarship of this book; other reviewers have done that and done it rather well.  While I find the lack of scholarship disturbing worse is the defense of this book.  Reviewers of this book are not arguing for it's accuracy but arguing that any critic of this book is biased, prejudice or terrified of the truth.  Weather or not a book has used good scholarship has nothing to do with the gender of the reader of the book, the readers political or their particular religious views.  Similarly good scholarship has nothing to do with politics, with being a member of a particular religion or holding a particular worldview.  Good scholarship has to do with providing evidence for your claims and accurately citing works of others that you have used in coming to your conclusions.  <br />It is not unreasonable to ask (demand) that a reference book on mythology and Paganism and one epically designed for a market obviously so hungry for such a reference provide accurate information based on good research. It is important to look at controversial theories and to work hard to make connections between mythologies and religious practices from around the world. .  But the desire to find answers does not excuse the altering of history, the misuse of other's scholarship and the twisting of language to fit ones political agenda.<br />Ms. Walker loudly accused patriarchal society of altering history of altering religion of engaging in a conspiracy of twisting facts to suit particular its needs.  However the fact is that Ms. Walker is happily engaging in all of these activities without so much as batting an eye.  <br />Read it, enjoy it but please don't pretend it is accurate or reflective of history of mythology.   If one uses it as a tool to stimulate ones research that is fine but recognize this book is NOT scholarly, it is NOT a reliable reference and should not be used as such.	2002-10-24
US	52847441	R2TCK7GHTFZYUA	0553377965	47970542	Contacting Aliens: An Illustrated Guide to David Brin's Uplift Universe	Books	2	6	11	N	N	Few will enjoy this	...Brin's uplift novels are overloaded with wonderful details that lets the reader's mind co-create aliens and alien landscapes.  He provides just enough information to evoke a sense of weirdness with his aliens that they become full fledged beings all on their own.  His aliens are, for the most part, shockingly original and often disturbing in just how un-human they can be.  In Contacting Aliens imagination and originally have been surgically removed leaving us with aliens as two dimensional as the artwork that accompanies their brief description.  What a disappointment.  The book neither fills in holes left by the series nor adds new ground or information to these characters.<br />The drawings appear rather juvenile and provide no depth or interest.  They contribute nothing to the image of the exotics that populate Brin's novels...	2002-10-23
US	52847441	R3D8STCXW7FJMZ	0764553070	54531293	Grant Writing For Dummies (For Dummies (Computer/Tech))	Books	5	128	129	N	N	clear, precise and easy to use	I was struggling through a master's level grant writing course and hitting snag after snag in my own grant writing project.  The text books for the course provided contradictory and confusing information that on the whole did not apply to the actual process of grant writing.  I gave up and purchased Grant Writing for Dummie.  I only wish I had gotten this book earlier.  The book is well organized and walks you through the often convoluted process of researching, writing and submitting grant proposals.  I appreciated the clear writing and colorful examples of how to phrase and document a grant proposal.  I recommended the book to the professor but he was less than enthusiastic about the idea of replacing the standard class textbooks.	2002-10-18
US	52847441	RJEVQSJ3CKVVJ	0812541626	894162627	The Sum of All Men (The Runelords, Book One:)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	far better than most fantasy novels out there	The Runelords by David Farland has two major strengths going for it.  Its magic system and the fact that it actually asks its characters and the readers to confront some rather tough questions about morality and the end justifying the means.<br />Magic in the realm of the Runelords comes in two forms; the magic of the bloodmetal and the magic of the elements.  I was particularly pleased that Farland did not just attach magic to a standard medieval society and present the society as if it were indifferent to the existence of magic.   So many authors treat magic as something that the majority of the people in their books are unconcerned or unconnected with.  ___ presents us with a society that has grown out of the existence of magic with magic touching everyone lives, not just those who wield it.  The Runelords grow in power by get taking endowments donors or dedicants through the magic of bloodmetal.    A common man can grant his strength to his Runelord, living out his days as weak as a baby, while the Runelord becomes twice as strong.  The process may strengthen the Runelords  and in return fro the gift of the endowment the Runelord is expected to provide care for their dedicants for the remainder of their lives.  <br />There is also the elemental magic of earth, air fire and water magic which requires its users to become almost wholly consumed by the Power they serve.<BR>These elements are personified and spoken of as unique personalities who war among themselves and who must remain in careful balanced. <BR> <BR>The ultimate price for either kind of magic is that receiving the gift of magic, either by being a wizard or a Runelord is to sacrifice your humanity.  The elemental mages are consumed by the power they serve and the RUnelords become so dependant on the system of dedicates that they cannot function as \\"normal\\" people anymore.<br />On the philosophical side Farland's novel asks whether a lord have the right to demand endowments from his subjects if he needsthose gifts in order to defend them against an foreign invasion or an attack by the monstrous and inhuman  Reavers? Is it wrong for a peasant to sell his sight, or his stamina, or another talent in exchange for a lifetime of security? Is it wrong for a Runelord to purchase endowments from peasants?  None of these questions get answered and there may not be adequate answers for these questions.  <br />A difficult question is why anyone would agree to allow themselves to become a dedicant in the first place.  Farland goes to pains to tell us time and again that endowments must be freely given.  He also tries very hard to present us with a society were sacrificing your health, or the well being of your family is a noble deed.  <br />Farlands plotting is very good.  The events of the novel are collapsed into a few days.  This provides a sense of urgency and breathless ness to the action but causes some problems for the characters who seem to have rather compressed relationships.  <br />The characters on a whole are a little flat.  I am not sure just what qualities the main character, Prince Gaborn , possess that would warrant him being crowned EarthKing other than the often stated reason that he truly loved his subjects.  He is of course unfailingly honest, regal and endearing to all.  His faults seem to have been tacked on and ultimately don't help to make him more interesting as a person.  <br />The villain of the story, Raj Ahten is almost too bad.  Farland does save him from being a complete cardboard cut out by adding in the notion that Raj Ahten believes that he is engaging in this war of conquest with the kingdoms of Prince Gaborn and receiving thousands of endowments from those he conquers because he thinks only he can be the savior of humanity.  <br />All in all a very good read and a very good start to the series.	2002-10-18
US	52847441	R3P86LCU2X6TML	0965320898	871486626	Goddess Unmasked: The Rise of Neopagan Feminist Spirituality	Books	3	22	34	N	N	Unmasked agenda	Agenda is very clear from the cover portrait of the book itself.  Botticelli's \\"Birth of Venus\\" is twisted for this production.  The face of the lovely Venus is shown to be a mask and underneath *GASP* is the face of a witch, ugly, old, wrinkled and GREEN.  Given the tone of the book I found the artist showed considerable restraint in that the unmasked face did not have a few warts.  <br />Mr. Davis shows little restraint in his attack on Wicca, Neo-Paganism, Enlightenment scientists and philosophers, diversity politics, the Western esoteric tradition and other unrelated topics.  He admits to a personal bias in favor of \\"traditional religious practices\\"  (this came as a complete and total shock to me).<br />Like similar books designed to debunk a particular religion is suffers from some basic flaws.  Primary among them is the author's reliance on written materials rather than first hand inquiry.  Mr. Davis obviously has some authors he loves to hate and uses these as whipping posts all the time implying that the Neo-Pagan religious movement is built on these texts and all practitioners of the religion endorse them wholeheartedly.   The vast majority of those who choose to pursue Wicca or similar Neo-Pagan spiritual paths adhere to the notion that the Divine is comprised of BOTH male and female traits.<BR>In general, Goddess Unmasked has a shallow, off-the-cuff tone that reads more like a collection of Davis' lecture notes than a exploration of the occult-obsessed recesses of nineteenth century intellectual life.  Mr. Davis attempts to produce a history of ideas, but the topic-by-topic arrangement of his book often makes it difficult to follow his ideas.  There were times I found it impossible to trace some of the intellectualized notions he has regarding the romanticized beginnings of the Neo-Pagan movement<BR>Mr. Davis contends that a society based on the ideology bound veneration of one gender over the other is one that will become rooted in institutions and pubicpolicy opening the door for abuse of minorities and those of the other gender.  Mr. Davis was speaking of Wicca but what he describes sounds much more like traditional Christianity than anything else.	2002-10-07
US	52847441	R2D1DIVCZXV9U	0684866048	759857110	Move Your Stuff, Change Your Life: How to Use Feng Shui to Get Love, Money, Respect, and Happiness	Books	5	12	13	N	N	picture perfect	While I own several books on Feng Shui this is the book that I find recommending to other people again and again. It is written in a smooth accessible manner that is both personal yet conveys a wealth of information. Each time I reread it I find new information and new insights.<BR>Karen provides a clear explanation of the five elements and how these relate to your home is provided; something often lacking in similar books. Many Feng Shui books assume that you have studied eastern philosophy to some extent and their explanations of object placement in the home are based on that assumption. Most of us prefer to have at least some minimal understanding of why Aunt Hilda's portrait is better hung in teh laundry room rather than over the mantle.<BR>Karen proves many helpful features including summarized lists of do's and don'ts for each area of your home, office, and even automobile. <BR>The book is written with a sense of humor and an attitude that you are smart enough to arrange your own living space based on your tastes and desires.	2002-10-02
US	52847441	R1Z4KMZHVOS27F	1582970262	190749216	The Writer's Complete Fantasy Reference	Books	1	3	6	N	N	Incomplete and dispensable	The greatest lack of this book is the lack of recommended reading. I don't mean fantasy recommendations I mean reference works where more details can be found on the subjects presented. Parts of this book are an overview of famous fantasy worlds, parts of it are simple dictionary like lists of occupations, clothes, weapons, animals and so on.	2002-10-02
US	52847441	R1Q6F90HF7JKD1	080105382X	700678524	Witchcraft: Exploring the World of Wicca	Books	2	32	42	N	N	Pagans, not Christians, should read this book	This is a book that all Pagans should read, not because it is insightful or well balanced but because it is necessary for Pagans to understand what Christians think about their religion and the attack on ones religious beliefs Christians will make.  I will be the first to say that it is a difficult book to read.  Many pagans are either infuriated or amused at the strange notions about our religion the Mr. Hawkins has.  <br />Because Pagans are generally tolerant of other religions we are often blindsided by well intentioned though misinformed individuals who feels the need to change our religion to theirs their religion for their own good.  This book provides some small insight into the Christian mind and worldview and offers some hint as to just why Christians use the arguments they use against other religions.  <br />Does Mr. Hawkins provide a clear accurate picture of the Neopagan religion? Well...not really.  The description of Wicca is drawn entirely from readings form popular text on the subject.  Recognize that popular does not mean either good or accurate.  Mr. Hawkins quotes liberally from a number of texts on Wicca, Witchcraft and the New Age but he misses an essential element.  While Mr. Hawkins has read extensively it is painfully obvious that he did not actually talk to Witches and Pagans about their religion.  If he has had conversations with experienced and educated members of the Neopagan religions he has apparently only made attempts to convert these individuals but not actually to learn from them.  <br />The third section of the book, \\"Philosophical Critiques of Witchcraft\\" is the most interesting.  Mr. Hawkins attempts to makes four points<BR>1. the Bible condemns witchcraft and the occult <BR>2. the Wiccan worldview is obviously false <BR>3. that Wiccans dispute both logic and science in a self-defeating fashion <BR>4. that Wiccan beliefs are unethical<br />As for the first point, no one is arguing that, the Bible condemns many things from eatingshellfish to wearing particular fabrics.  <br />As to the second point:  I believe that Mr. Hawkins was trying to build an argument against religious pluralism but missed the mark. He indicates that pluralism is illogical but does not actually provide any evidence to that effect; he just states that it is obvious that it is so.    Mr. Hawkins goes on to attack relativism.  Despite the fact that relativism is a pretty easy target he does not do this very well arguing against it.  Mr. Hawkins operates under the notion that Pagans are relativists, he arrives at this by , which does not appear to be the case. Like many people, including other reviewers of this book, he confuses relativism with subjectivism.  <br />As to the third point: Mr. Hawkins spends a great deal of time talking about the experiential nature of Wicca.  Hawkins states that Witches have difficulty distinguishing experience from truth, he does this by quoting Margot Adler who was quoting Aidan Kelly who did not in fact say that everything one experiences is true.  Kelly argues for the exact opposite, that experience does not equal truth, that we cannot know what is and what is not true.  Of note in this section was the paragraphe where Mr. Hawkins states that   \\"Witches disdain the idea that there is only one truth.\\"  Immediately after this Hawkins criticizes that Starhawk and \\"many witches like Starhawk\\" for believing there is only one truth.  <br />As for the fourth point: Mr. Hawkins indicates that Pagan beliefs are unethical because the Pagan worldview \\"results in an inability to morally distinguish between good and evil, right and wrong.\\"  The main thrust of his argument is based on the \\"fact\\" the all Pagans are relativists and relativists (as everyone knows) are incapable of making such distinctions.  Mr. Hawkins is very critical of both the Wiccan Rede and the three fold law, both indicate that one is responsible to ones actions.  Exactly why being responsible for one's actions is unethical isa mystery that Mr. Hawkins did not go into.  <BR>The problem of evil is brought out as a weapon against Paganism.  Hawkins argues that since the writers he has read do not discuss evil to any great extent they are ignoring it in the false pretense that it will just not be real.  Unfortunately he fails to realize that Pagans can utilize the same defense for the problem of evil that Christians have used for years, free will.  <br />Ultimately Mr. Hawkins fails to find a fatal flaw in the word view of Witchcraft.  His arguments are largely based on assumption that have no baring in the real world and as such they fall apart when they are looked at in the light of reason.   What shines through most of all is Mr. Hawkins lack of respect for the beliefs of others.  What is truly disappointing is that Mr. Hawkins could have made this a great book, one that helped start and foster interfaith dialogs.  While the book is a good place to start a better place would be in talking to people of different religions for yourself.  <br />Pagans need to read this book, but the need to read and understand the worldview espoused in it does not make the book either good or well balanced	2002-10-01
US	52847441	R9ZB1E1HBH0JH	0962008664	195985129	America Shattered	Books	1	11	48	N	N	The post office is controling your child's mind	Mr. Marrs has once again produced a book filled with his own paranoid delusions and fears.  Some reviewers of his other books feel his writings are humerous, a joke.  Writing like this stops being funny when the author  is so obviously beleives his own hate inspired fear based nonsense.  In the  eyes of Mr. Marrs every thing is potentially part of a grand conspiracy to  utterly destroy Christianity.  He of course casts himself as savior as he  risks all to bravely call attention to the danger of the New Age. Mr.  Marrs, please take some advice and seek psychiatric help for yourself.	2000-03-28
