US	52841839	R23BTZV2WKMU5	0345451325	953390251	The Fall of Reach (Halo, Bk. 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	This Is Hard Science Fiction At It's Best!	I read this novel because my son has read all three Halo novels and he practically begged me to read them also. We also have both Halo XBOX games so I kind of already knew what it was all about, and figured this would be third-rate science fiction, I mean, how could a novel connected to an XBOX game be serious? Boy, was I wrong! This is serious, hard-core science fiction, these kinds of novels are what made me fall in love with science fiction decades ago. Eric Nylund is a superb writer, and his prose is in an easy to read, flowing style, and I can say that this novel is a page-turner. It covers events prior to the first XBOX game, first encounters with the Covenant, detailing the training Master Chief had to undergo, and the exploits of Captain Keyes, it really explains the matters behind the game. Action-packed would be a sure way to describe this novel. About a month or more ago my son and I agreed that Halo would make a great movie, or movies, and about two weeks later, on the net, an article said that Microsoft plans a movie, and is making sure that the studio selected follows the books and games closely, hooray for Microsoft, too many movies have been made using 'artistic license', vaguely following the book and creating a poor/incomprehensible product. The movie should include all of this book, definitely.  <br /> <br />To critic this novel is somewhat difficult to do, but it does seem strange to me that 500 years from now there are no life-extending therapies, as people continue to grow old, and where is the nanotechnology and nano-weapons, there are none! The novel does include such things as cloning, copying brain scans onto A.I. substrates, cyogenic storage, etc.. I await in anticipation the upcoming movie, and additional novels. Now, on to the second novel, THE FLOOD.	2005-09-26
US	52841839	R37PU9KZ19BUVZ	0743492854	680164549	Ex Machina (Star Trek: The Original Series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Original Series: Live Long And Prosper!	I love the Original Series of Star Trek, though The Next Generation is fine also. This novel takes place very soon after the encounter with V'Ger, which Star Trek: The Motion Picture covered well. Here, the crew tries to bring peace to the planet Daran IV, with one faction clinging to the old superstitious ways and others wanting rational thought to lead to a better future, huh, kind of reminds me of modern day America! Also here is Spock struggling with the role of emotions in his life, should he let his emotions express themselves, or should he control them with logic? McCoy deals with an old love affair, if you can call it that, with McCoy also trying to keep pace with medical advances after being away from medicine awhile. I will note here that before reading this novel it would be best if a person would watch Star Trek: The Motion Picture, or read the book, the background material is useful. Overall, highly recommended.	2005-08-22
US	52841839	R3RGGAG6ZMNBOZ	0871138883	778854161	The Long Emergency: Surviving the Converging Catastrophes of the Twenty-First Century	Books	5	20	25	N	N	A Reality Check	Aptly titled THE LONG EMERGENCY, if you read this book you will surely understand why. A great study on the socio-economics and geopolitics of oil (and gas), or the lack of it, and how this will affect us in the future, and as for it's immediacy, most people do not grasp it. Complacency is a major problem. Several other books on energy give an overview of the geology of oil production and debate the coming world oil production peak, Kunstler does this and more, giving us a bleak picture of the world with declining oil production. Imagine resource wars (already here), famine coupled with population reductions, recession and depression, suburbia and cities no longer viable, you get the idea. Kunstler portrays alternate energy proposals as nowhere near robust enough to replace the cheap and plentiful oil we are addicted to, which we waste in our gas-guzzling vehicles, running endless errands with our impulsive driving. James Kunstler also writes that our economists are wrong, the market, and technology, will not save us, as the geological constraints of a limited oil supply is just that, limited. He also writes that we are \\"sleepwalking into the future\\", Americans have been bamboozled by our leaders (but you have to wonder, do our leaders, by and large, really know that much?). There is detailed information in this volume about alternate energy sources, and as I mentioned already, Kunstler discounts them as only, at most, very 'partial' solutions, and basically writing that the much vaunted 'hydrogen economy' is a joke. He does believe that nuclear energy should be more widely used in the future, I can agree with that. There are tons of information here. Other topics include a critic of globalization and capitalism, and how they have combined to bring us cheap goods from places like China, destroying much of our manufacturing base so someone can go to a generic 'box' store here in the USA and save a few dollars on a hair dryer. Climate change is another topic, and diseases receive much attention. Also wrote about is the vast stretches of surburbia in the USA, relying on plentiful oil to build, maintain, and live in, is it sustainable in a world short of oil? If Kunstler is right in all of this, travel will be much more expensive, life for us will be intensely local, with much more of our time and other resources devoted to food production...get to know some farmers! This book contains many references, but badly needs an index. Well worth reading.	2005-06-05
US	52841839	R3BGQ66SURLFSJ	0765305038	845349303	Newton's Wake: A Space Opera	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Copies, Copies Everywhere!	This novel is of a galaxy full of post-human technology, mind back-ups in case of death (with the associated question of identity survival), faster-than-light space travel, Drexler cornucopia macines, and post-singularity war machines. Most of the book centers around Carlyle's Drift, which are a series of wormholes connecting places many light years apart, with Lucinda Carlyle the principle character here. Across interstellar space there are several human factions, in various technological levels, competing with each other, allowing an interesting plot. I won't write about this further as I hate plot spoilers <br /> <br />I will give you my impressions of the book, however. At times, particularly the later one third, the writing seemed kind of vague, sometimes it was disjointed, making it difficult to recall who was fighting who. Perhaps MaCleod was trying to cover ground too quickly. But in the end it all does make sense. It may be that the main message of the novel is that we will always find ways to kill each other, and justify it, no matter how far technolgy takes us. After reading this, you may wonder as I did, what is real and what is'nt? If you enjoy this kind of science fiction, check out the fine novels by Richard K. Morgan.	2005-05-24
US	52841839	R1KTAO5RAFXDQB	0809029561	605787101	Beyond Oil: The View from Hubbert's Peak	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Horse Sense	Kenneth Deffeyes states clearly he has no crystal ball to tell exactly what it will be like after global oil production starts to decline, he writes that the peak in world oil production should occur on Thanksgiving day 2005 or in the first few months of 2006, then begin it's inexorable decline. One of the chapters I enjoyed best was his explanation of what exactly is the Hubbert Peak. He explains it clearly, and a layman like myself can understand and appreciate it's power of prognostication. Deffeyes also details how oil naturally exists in oilfields, very informative. Other chapters cover gas, coal, heavy oil and tar sands, uranium, hydrogen, and the last chapter ties everything together. Deffeyes writes here in a very conversationist style, with dry humor permeating.  <br /> <br />He also thinks societies will eventually develop alternatives to the cheap oil addiction we now have, but only after a period of wildly oscillating energy prices, which will finally end at a higher price plateau. Covered here are lots of energy alternatives. Deffeyes considers nuclear power to be a worthy candidate to get more of our power from in the future, I agree, the disposal issue has been detrimentally exagerated, environmentalists need to support nuclear energy as a clean domestic energy source, and build more reactors.  <br /> <br />In the last chapter there are guidelines, in a very general presentation, of what we can do as a society, and as individuals, to get past what Deffeyes writes will be a very difficult 10 years or so, until alternatives are developed. The author, and many others, say we have squandered the past 20 years or so, and that these energy alternatives should have been well developed by now. Oh well, I guess it serves us right since we elected mostly lawyers for congress! One thing I disagree with Deffeyes on is his call for cleaner diesels on our highways. Trues, by 2010 90% of the sulfer now in diesel fuel will be removed, but with millions more diesel vehicles on our roads it will still be a sooty mess. Diesels are nasty! Hybrids are also mentioned in the book, to me this is the way to go, I can see in the future hybrid vehicles getting more and more power from their batteries, which will improve over time, with the gasoline engine used only for long distances, or towing. Later versions of hybrids should allow the owners to plug them in to the power grid to lessen use of the engine.  <br /> <br />Deffeyes is not doom and gloom on the energy issue as some other experts are. On this issue you have to make up your own mind. But one thing is nearly certain, higher prices for nearly everything are in our future. <br />  <br /> <br />           <br /> <br />     <br />  <br />	2005-05-02
US	52841839	R1E1Y4ZEDT2Y2E	0425170349	626650351	Rainbow Six (John Clark Novel, A)	Books	2	2	7	N	N	LLLOOONNNGGG  AND  DULL!!!	Well, mostly this novel is 899 pages of boredom. The plot centers around an anti-terrorist group based in England, comprised of primarily Americans and British commando types, with a few continental Europeans thrown in for good measure. This group quells one terrorist incident after another, setting the stage for a final encounter. Everything here is by and large predictable, a few surprises do await the reader. Tom Clancy wrote this novel circa 1999, obviously dated as you will see if you do decide to read it, being pre 911 is just a part of this. I found it long and dull, being punctuated by brief periods of action. A plodding writing style indeed. 899 pages...give me a break, if an author cannot get his ideas across in 400-500 pages he/she needs to get a better editor. Also, if you truly believe in the environmental movement and are cognisant of how we are harming the earth with our industrial way of life you will be disappointed with this novel as Clancy generally disparages environmentalists as extreme. I suspect Clancy may be a far right-wing neoconservative, just a guess on my part. But more to the point, this book is far too long and contains lots of filler, not recommended.	2005-04-25
US	52841839	R3J25QDM3UBEOC	1579549543	792716559	Fantastic Voyage: Live Long Enough to Live Forever	Books	5	9	11	N	N	This Book Will Change Your Life!	Ray Kurzweil and Terry Grossman M.D. have written here what I consider the very best nutritional and supplement book out there. In addition, the authors have included a very good index for future reference, which I plan to do often. Kurzweil and Grossman have written a very comprehensive volume, giving good nutrition advice and pointing out the flaws in the government nutritional pyramid, and also suggesting aggressive supplementation of vitamins and minerals, and some drugs when neccessary. The authors also detail Bridge Two and Bridge Three technologies, Bridge Two being the biotechnology revolution which is already here in it's early stages, and Bridge Three being nanotechnology which is just getting started. These technologies promise to give us an indefinite lifespan, but in order to maximize our chances of living long enough to realize these technologies for ourselves we need to practice Bridge One techologies and practices, which is what this book mostly covers.     There are so many people out there giving bad nutrition advice that it is pathetic. Many have a vested interest such as the sugar industry. This book quickly cuts to the heart of the matter, but it is lengthy and takes awhile to read. Topics included (among many others) are: food and water, carbohydrates and the glycemic load, fat and protein, metabolic pathways, optimal weight, sugar and insulin, genomics, inflammation, methylation, sleep, toxins and detoxification, heart disease, cancer, the brain, hormones, supplementation, exercise, and stress. Some of these topics were unfamiliar to me at first but as you read the book you will grasp the importance of them.     Each chapter contains numerous references to the scientific literature. To me it is difficult to criticise this book. But one of my criticisms is that some of the tables should have been longer and more detailed instead of being forced to look up the information on their web site, and the omega three fat content informaton of walnuts could have been given more attention as some people have no inclination to eat fish or take fish oil capsules. Overall, though, this book is a treasure-trove of cutting edge advice, and I will refer to it repeatedly in the future, and will read later additions which the authors wrote would be forthcoming.     At least one earlier reviewer wrote a diatribe of deathism, basically meaning death is inevitable. Perhaps his/her possible religious background would explain such a position, or a sense of a limitation on future science. This book, obviously, is very optimistic, and I think correctly assumes medical science will conquer aging and most diseases in our lifetime. Myself, I prefer to be on the optimistic side	2005-02-28
US	52841839	R381J1KV35E5BF	0805076514	995309548	Nuclear Terrorism: The Ultimate Preventable Catastrophe	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Could It Happen?	Nearly everyone has heard of rumors of nuclear weapons missing from the arsenal of the former Soviet Union, and perhaps in the hands of terrorists, or soon to be. This book covers this and many other aspects of nuclear terrorism. In addition, author Graham Allison, a former assistant secretary of defense for policy and plans, promotes in this book a comprehensive program to stop nuclear proliferation, seemingly well thought out.  <br /> <br />The war on terror and the dangers of nuclear terrorism is given much attention in this book. Secretary of defense Rumsfeld is quoted as worried that we may be producing more terrorists than we are eliminating, in the war in Iraq. Allison, claiming our arrogant foreign policy is causing great harm in our international standing, has a right to be concerned. Record numbers of people in other countries distrust the United States, due largely to our mostly unilateral war in Iraq, and they wonder what we may attack next. Allison calls for the United States to develop and execute a 'humble foreign policy' and says the current Bush administration is doing quite the opposite. After reading this book, and other items, I am convinced we have literally made billions of people across the globe distrustful of the United States, and this does impact the war on terrorism.  If we are not careful we will be the new 'evil empire' in the eyes of the world, if not already there. According to Allison, not only was the war in Iraq a waste, no WMDs were found, but it detracts from the war on terrorism, namely nuclear terrorism. Graham Allison goes into all of this in minute detail. In the last parts of the book Allison explains a proposed international program to reduce the risk of nuclear terrorism, interesting reading.	2005-01-14
US	52841839	R1GKF0XWX5UYSN	1894959124	413599293	New Moon Rising: The Making of America's New Space Vision and the Remaking of NASA: Apogee Books Space Series 42	Books	5	5	8	N	N	The Future Of Space Exploration	This is a very detailed and sometimes enlightening story of the people and events leading up to America's recent new space vision. Of course, as this book points out, the Columbia tragedy may have been a necessary precursor to this space vision, nevertheless it is long overdue and really should have begun after the Challenger accident. Sietzen and Cowing detail here the behind-the-scenes debates and decisions that may very well determine the course of the space agency over the next several decades, and perhaps longer. What has emerged is actually a blueprint for the long term migration of humans into the solar system, and not a brief quick dash to the moon as Apollo was, and it includes a mix of robotic scouting missions to pave the way for human expeditions. I have to give credit, after reading the book, to the Bush administration, and the members of the 'Splinter Group' who met in the basement of the White House to push for this new space policy, and as the authors write, these unidentified people are 'true spacers' who really believe in space exploration, and in my opinion are heroes, and there are also others mentioned in this book, some you would never expect.  <br /> <br />One of the things that is covered here is the debate behind the rationale of space exploration. In the past most people supporting space exploration stressed the practical benefits such as improved medicines and materials processing. While worthy goals in themselves, they may have been over-emphasized in the past. The new space visionaries claim, in an unabashed fashion, the real reason for space exploration, and that is for the sake of exploration in itself. Hooray for them.  <br /> <br />But this is also a tale of the managerial mistakes of our NASA, the cost over-run of the International Space Station, and of how, over the past 18 years or so, three launch systems were concieved, much money spent, and then cancelled. The era of NASA administrator Dan Goldin is well documented, and the efforts of administrator Sean O'Keefe are wrote about in much detail, with the new managerial style he brought to NASA recieving coverage of many pages here. Politics are important also, much of the book covers this as well.  <br /> <br />The new space vision is long term, of course, but the near term goals of Project Constellation are to develop the Crew Exploration Vehicle to replace the Space Shuttle (long overdue), conduct further robotic exploration of the solar system, use the space station as a test bed for human long term space flight, and sometime in the next decade return astronauts to the moon. A longer term goal is human exploration of Mars. All of this is progressive and exciting and as the authors state here, and almost everyone who supports space exploration agree, it is long overdue that we move out of low earth orbit and continue on to do what NASA is all about, exploration. This book is a masterpiece and should be read by everyone interested in NASA and our future in space.       <br /> <br />	2005-01-08
US	52841839	R3TF9QLSWXZBAX	0399148841	759320986	The Man with the Red Tattoo	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Bond, James Bond	In this latest literary incarnation of Bond, Benson has 007 traveling to Japan where he does battle with elements of the Japanese underground. These criminals prefer the old ways of Japan's past and will do anything to force a return to a fundamental way of life. Along the way Bond meets the usual pretty woman or two. The plot includes the sinister plan to use a biological weapon on unsuspecting civilians. <br /> <br />I found this novel to be an easy read, just perfect for a warm day or two on a beach (I read it in cold Missouri). Characters were fully developed, and as in all Benson novels everything was well done. The settings in Japan were obviously well researched, much detail here. The only reason I took one star off of my review was due to the fact that, in my opinion, we need a Bond novel that is less predictable, where Bond does'nt prevail, where Bond does'nt get the girl, sort of like real life. Imagine the possibilities here, almost endless. Regardless of this criticism, this novel is still excellent.	2005-01-01
US	52841839	R31HAEXSJCGFFS	0805073132	947438665	Blood and Oil: The Dangers and Consequences of America's Growing Dependency on Imported Petroleum (American Empire Project)	Books	5	53	58	N	N	Informative And Well Documented	This book, by Michael Klare, goes into much detail explaining how conservative leaders and think tanks have not only led us into a disastrous war in Iraq, but in addition have set the United States on a course to actually import more and more oil from unstable and despotic foreign countries in the future. Before the latest Iraqi war I did'nt believe the war was about oil, perhaps it was a side issue, but Klare goes into much detail here, illustrating the fact the war is primarily about securing a large and continuous oil supply for the United States. It is true, as Klare points out, that Presidents since FDR have placed a high value on Middle East oil, but the Bush administration has taken intervention to a new and dangerously high level. Several documents are referred to by Klare, one very important one was by the National Energy Policy Development Group, in 2001, headed by none other than Dick Cheney. This group gives full support to the use of the military of the United States to secure foreign oil sources, only giving lip service to alternate energy development, and almost nothing to conservation measures including raising CAFE standards. I have to say that I find this amazingly short sighted. Now that President Bush and his 'advisors' have gotten us into an endless resource war in Iraq it is evident to any thinking person that we are in a mess with nearly no end. In addition, our military, in their 'precision' strikes, have, as of 10-04, killed an estimated 21,500 Iraqi civilians, to me this is atrocious and another reason the terrorists have been able to easily recruit people. Klare goes into detail how we join forces with despotic regimes around the world in search of additional supplies of oil, and this includes the House Of Saud. As a result of this, Klare points out, and with the stationing of U.S. troops on sacred Middle Eastern soil, we have invited the fury and hate of many, many Arabs, this cannot but end badly. Klare states that this policy of using the military to rely more and more on foreign supplies of oil may lead to price shocks, supply interruptions, and in a worst case blackmail. And of course an unending stream of terrorist attacks against U.S. interests all over the world.  <br /> <br />I found the last chapter of this book to be the most interesting, however. Here, Klare presents a somewhat detailed outline of what we can do to reduce our dependence on foreign oil. Of course, conservation plays a big role, including raising the Cafe standards for cars and light trucks, and eventually for heavy trucks as well. Alternate energy sources must be developed. And we should, in the future, refrain, Klare points out, in supporting corrupt regimes around the world just for the sake of their oil, this alone will give us much more credibility in the world. We have squandered hundreds of billions of dollars in useless and counter-productive military adventures, Klare gives us ideas of how we can do better.  <br /> <br />This book is largely about the geo-political aspects of the global supply of oil. For a comprehensive treatise on the impending peak of the global production of oil read HUBBERT'S PEAK by Kenneth Deffeyes, and THE PARTY'S OVER by Richard Heinberg.	2004-10-26
US	52841839	R15GQ7P0CILCUT	0865715106	500916232	Powerdown: Options and Actions for a Post-Carbon World	Books	5	181	195	N	N	Scarce And Expensive Oil In The Future	This is Richard Heinberg's second book on the oil depletion problem, his first was THE PARTY'S OVER, you probably should read that book before this one, to get an overview of the enormous problem facing us in the near future. In this latest volume Heinberg writes much more about the underlying politics of the depletion scenario, and it is'nt a pretty one. At one time, when it was said that the war in Iraq was really about oil I did'nt believe it, or perhaps it was one of the minor side issues of the war. But Heinberg makes a case for it. After Bush declared \\"mission accomplished\\" (a laugh) his group only allowed primarily American companies, with a few allied companies, to work in Iraq. And it does'nt take much imagination to see that, as the Iraqi oil infrastructure is repaired (attempted), American oil companies will get most of the work. In a global free market economy the highest bidder would get Iraqi oil, but in a severe oil shortage Uncle Sam may declare: that since we \\"fixed\\" the system in Iraq the USA gets the oil...Iraqis are'nt stupid, they see this as a real possibility, that is perhaps one reason they sabotage oil pipelines continuously. As Heinberg writes, Bush and his followers are incompetent, with their belligerent foreign policy, but Heinberg does give Bush credit for recognizing the looming oil depletion problem on our horizon. Heinberg writes in detail of all of this, saying that instead of using the war to solve this problem we should instead be cooperating with other countries and spending the vast sums of money we are wasting on the war on alternate energy sources.  <br /> <br />Although Heinberg believes we are already too late to prevent a collapse of our industrial way of life, he also writes that we should nevertheless begin the task of developing alternate energy sources, as they will be needed eventually, regardless of whether a collapse occurs and it's severity. Also, as Heinberg writes in detail, the neoconservatives that are now in power (the Bush administration) have informally connected to the 'religious right', making a powerful impediment to any progress to efforts to create a sustainable civilization, and that this coalition of neoconservatives with the religious right will lead us into endless resource wars and further ignite anti-American sentiments and additional terrorism against the USA and it's interests.  <br /> <br />But the primary message here is resource depletion, especially oil. Also discussed by Heinberg is the idea of 'population overshoot', have we exceeded the carrying capacity of our planet via the production of vast amounts of food made possible by ferilizer manufactured with abundant and cheap natural gas? To me this is all very alarming, and we all should get our personal economic houses in order while we still are able to.  <br /> <br />If the collapse of civilization as we know it is inevitable , perhaps, as Heinberg suggests, the best course for us is the preservation of books, the arts, etc., for use later in a post-collapse society. The sustainable energy program that Heinberg and many others suggest that we should pursue with utmost urgency seems unlikely to occur until the American people are faced with a severe oil shortage and massive price increases. Then the politicians will be forced to take real and responsible action. In the meantime we seem to be in a period of nearly endless resource wars with hundreds of billions of dollars each year diverted to this losing cause that indeed should be spent on alternate energy sources, better highways, and better health care, for all Americans. Considering the vast amounts we are spending in this overseas war effort, perhaps the terrorists have already won! <br /> <br />As a personal note, I have read a bit on the oil depletion problem, and the estimates of the date of the world oil production peak I have seen range from right now to the year 2020, a couple go out to 2034-2037, they can be dismissed rather easily, so itseems that around the year 2015 is a good average, in time we shall see. Of course, any large increase in world demand for oil could overwhelm the supply, making the peak date irrelevant.	2004-10-11
US	52841839	R14QH4WBQD8E63	0345457714	203262778	Broken Angels (Takeshi Kovacs)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Among The Best Science Fiction Out There	This is the second Takeshi Kovacs novel by author Richard Morgan, the first being the very good ALTERED CARBON. In this latest incarnation, Takeshi Kovacs is involved with a ruthless businessman and a group of mercenaries on the planet Sanction IV, in search of an ancient Martian starship, now derelict. There is plenty of action, in a wartime setting, lots of gore and realism, so beware if that bothers you.  <br /> <br />Richard Morgan writes with a sophistication far beyond what most writers are capable of. This sophistcation extends to the development of the characters, emotions, thoughts, to settings, plot, the sense of actually being with the character as you read, this is an amazing talent, for sure.  <br /> <br />As hard science fiction is concerned, this novel sort of reads like future history, ideas and things portrayed here are not only possible but probable in our technological future, including nanotechnology (here the military version), virtual realities that are indistinguishable from the real thing, advanced cloning, needlecasting (where a person has his/her mind digitized and beamed across perhaps many light years and incorporated into another body). People have cortical stacks implanted at the base of their skulls, these stacks record a complete record of memories and thoughts, if the person dies the cortical stack is simply incorporated into a cloned body and life goes on (some are'nt so lucky).  <br /> <br />The last few pages of the book are great, it made me imagine the possibilities achievable someday, if we don't destroy ourselves in the meantime. But, of course, this is the primary message of hard science fiction, to allow us to imagine the possibilities. Don't miss this one.	2004-10-03
US	52841839	RB12JVW3YJ57E	0312873433	663804540	One Giant Leap: Neil Armstrong's Stellar American Journey	Books	4	3	9	N	N	Worth Reading For The Details	This book covers events leading up to, and after, that glorious mid-summer day in 1969 when, as a species, we briefly transcended our problems on earth and rose above ourselves, a time long gone. It is true that Neil Armstrong, for the most part I understand, rarely gives interviews, so this book has been written from information from other sources. Leon Wagener portrays Armstrong as a very sociable person, often active in community affairs, but also a man who values his privacy under sometimes overwhelming public scrutiny. A lot of the stories included here are from friends and family, I enjoyed this part probably the most, little treasues about a most private person who has every right to his privacy. But because Wagener could'nt talk directly to Armstrong, this book comes across, to me, as a kind of cookie-cutter book, just not quite as hard-hitting as it could have been had Armstrong talked with Wagener, who surely must have a lot to say!         Overall, though, Wagener did a good job with available resources. There are obvious errors in this book, glaring to those who know much about the space program, but I largely overlooked them in favour of the positive aspects of the book.         Sometimes I find it amazing, that 35 years ago, we landed men on the moon. Not only once, but six times, every time challenging that complex daisy-chain of potential problems, as Wagener phrased it. It is a testament to what dedicated scientists and engineers can accomplish, given enough resources to work with. It is the defining accomplishment of our time, when we became a multi-planet species, to be remembered when everything else from our age is forgotten, and Wagener covers this 'epic' aspect in a superb manner.         The actual flight of Apollo 11 is covered too briefly here, I believe. For a more in-depth coverage of the flight, read CARRYING THE FIRE by Michael Collins. Wagener did, however, cover Armstrong's life before and after Apollo 11 very well. Also, Buzz Aldrindid contribute to this book, and very interesting it was. In spite of the shortcomings of this book, it is nevertheless fascinating reading.	2004-07-28
US	52841839	R3J4YA6HPH5DA9	0061097632	221606529	The Eleventh Plague	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Could Someone Actually Do This?	Authors John Marr and John Baldwin have a disclaimer in this novel that this is'nt a how-to-do-it book on bioweapons. Nevertheless, the disturbing thing is that the ideas contained here would be very easy to put into actual practice. A lone scientist, somewhat crazy by thinking that god is talking to him and directing him to loose the Biblical plagues onto humanity, is the villain, one sick person indeed. Some of the deadly agents used are mycotoxins, ergot toxins, anthrax, Rift Valley fever, and several others. A scientist working with ProMED, virologist Jack Bryne, with help from others, discovers the Biblical plague connection and tries to track down the terrorist. Most of the book was mildly interesting, although I thought the novel was a bit too lengthy. Character development and plot layout were fair. To me this novel was barely worth reading, there are much better novels out there.	2004-07-16
US	52841839	R1DG712BPMOHKF	1930754221	152155386	The Medusa Strain	Books	2	0	5	N	N	Wrong On A Most Basic Point!	Novels, to me, are often a dramatization of real life, a condensed microcosm of the real world. Here, Chris Holmes writes of terrorists in Iraq, after the first Gulf war, developing a communicable form of anthrax via genetic engineering, and setting it lose on America. Also, Iraq is depicted as having an active germ warfare program after the first Gulf war. Does Holmes have this wrong, and does he contribute to the war hysteria that caused many of us to follow our errant leaders into an unnecessary war? Yes, I believe, as weapons of mass destruction were never found in Iraq afer the second Gulf war... and even if they were found Iraq nevertheless never threatened the United States, prior to the second war, anyway, except in defense of their country. Yes, Saddam is a bad guy, but bombing their country and killing thousands of civilians has created vast hatred towards the United States and bred countless new terrorists. So, I consider this novel to be wrong on a most basic level. As for the literary value of the book, it was interesting, though not a page turner, was well written, good plot, with excellent character development. Just keep the above reservations in mind as you read it.	2004-07-04
US	52841839	RMY7YOM62BEQR	0345457838	256491322	Evolution	Books	5	28	39	N	N	A 20 Star Book!	In novel form, Baxter presents here what everyone should understand, our origins, wrote in an interesting and entertaining way, in contrast to textbooks that are often wrote in a dry, academic style. Beautifully written, Baxter traces our mammalian past, beginning with a small primate Baxter named Purga, living in the time of the dinosaurs, and then on up to the present time and into the future as well. Each chapter is a story about an animal(s), and how it has evolved and interacts with others and it's environment. These stories are fascinating indeed, little glimpses into our primate past, and how evolution has shaped us into what we are now through the relentless selection process. As millions of years pass after the great extinction event caused about 65 million years ago by a great comet (most likely), each story is about an animal or groups of animals as they become more and more human.<br />Mammals in later times entered into group living to help ensure their survival, the corresponding social dynamics did spurr the development of larger and more complex brains, eventually giving rise to full consciousness. Baxter did a great job here, as everywhere in this novel, and his illustration of the concept of deceit as a by-product of consciousness was brilliant. <br />At least one other reviewer speculated as to what message Stephen Baxter is trying to get across to us. One reviewer wrote that perhaps the message is that if we don't master spaceflight and get off this planet we will de-evolve into lower life forms. Well, mabe, but even though I am a supporter of our space program I think perhaps not. I believe the primary message is to dramaticize the 'fact' of evolution to the general public with a well written and informative novel, teaching the fundamentals in an entertaining way, a refreshing breath of rational thought. Indeed, in our world there are many influences pulling us this way and that, the vast majority are not worthy or rational, Baxter seems to me to be trying to counter this. We live in a society where the vast majority of people are incapable of true independent thought, lead around by our so-called 'leaders' who themselves are largely incapable of independent thought, as they were put in power by the ignorant masses in the first place. The recent movie FAHRENHEIT 9-11 is a great expose' on this. In my own community there are even people who believe that the Earth is only about 6000 years old and that the extinction of the dinosaurs was aided from hunting by humans!!! I know this sounds harsh, and it is, I believe Baxter's primary message in this novel is to get through to at least a few people with the truth about our past, that our time is but a snapshot in a vast era of billions of years, and that, if you believe Baxter to the fullest, we are just animals, however intelligent, imbedded in an ecosystem as we always have been. Baxter also covers the emergence of 'belief' systems due to evolutionary advantage, and our propensity for them, well done here also. <br />Sometimes, after finishing a book, I am left with a feeling that I wasted my time having read it. You will not have that feeling after reading this book. This book would make a great movie, if anyone would dare to, in the conservative age in which we live.	2004-07-01
US	52841839	R1N8EAPBL7FO19	0812523873	749428507	Proxies	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Long And Dull In The Extreme!	If you want to read a lengthy and tedious novel, this one is for you. Set in the mid 21st century, it begins with a group that is striving to take over control of the first intersteller probe with their own people, and it continues in it's own muddling way from there for hundreds of pages. There is a device that permits instantaneous communications between points light years apart, and also technology with the ability to allow one to control human-like proxies at various locations away from ones physical location, their consciousness being projected there, sort of like an advanced version of telepresence. I found the plot very flat, not interesting at all really, and much of the writing, it seemed to me, was just filler. A lot of the time, particularly in the first half of the novel, I found it hard to follow which groups were doing what, very confusing. In my spare time I read a lot of science fiction, this novel is one of the poorer ones that I have read, not recommended at all.	2004-04-11
US	52841839	R2WF4WYUT48TJA	0312868251	338902251	The Void Captain's Tale	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Different, But Interesting Nevertheless...	In this novel of the &quot;Second Starfaring Age&quot;, Norman Spinrad has us on the starship Dragon Zephyr, a ship that instantaneously jumps from point to point in it's travels between star systems, covering several light years with each jump. The pilot of the ship (always a female) is an integral part of the jump circuit, and she enters a seemingly subjective state of ecstasy during these jumps. Captain Genro Kane Gupta becomes infatuated with the pilot and this leads to a terrible conundrum. In addition, there are also many passengers on this starship, and they lead a life of luxury in a complicated cultural and erotic lifestyle. The emotional lives of the crewmen and passengers are meticulously detailed by Spinrad, this being a well done and positive aspect of the novel, lending support to a superbly structured plot. <br />My only criticism is that I felt that Spinrad used a convoluted sentence structure much of the time, that coupled with frequent use of arcane words really did make this novel a chore to read, at least for me. Overall though, well worth reading.	2004-03-22
US	52841839	R19WLSHY7UC1J6	0441010849	171804784	The Digital Dead	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great Hard Science Fiction!	This novel is the sequel to THE FORGE OF MARS, you should probably read it first before reading THE DIGITAL DEAD, but it is'nt entirely necessary. This new novel continues the adventures of NASA nanotechnologist Tau Wolfsinger and his girlfriend Kate McCloud, after returning to Earth from Mars. Also included here is a man with great political ambition who will stop at nothing to achieve his political ends. Much of this novel occurs in cyberpace, and author Bruce Balfour does an admirable job in making it realistic, he himself is an A.I. expert at NASA, his scientific background is well evident in this 'all too possible' hard science fiction tale, taking place several decades in the future. <br />In this novel, Balfour touches several times on the subject of technological immortality, and he gives readers an entirely plausible method of actuating it, in a few decades something very similar may take place, fascinating stuff indeed. All the characters in this novel are fully formed and believable, inside an excellent plot, in an easy to read style, well worth reading. Everything, including the politics, are complicated by alien technology not fully understood, but no more potential spoilers...	2004-01-28
US	52841839	R2OEIF361C7SFO	0671525360	74707483	The Third Pandemic	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Bugs All Over The Place!	Everyone has heard of bacteria gaining resistance to antibiotics, this novel takes resistance to a deadly extreme, helped along by international travel. In addition to a great thriller in it's own right, Pierre Ouellette gives readers little lessons in biology and epidemiology, very informative and interesting indeed, for example, the bacteria involved here, Chlamydia, is overwhelmingly unstoppable and spreads very easily due largely to it's slow build-up of symptoms, allowing an infected person to spread it widely without being aware of it. <br />Plot and character development are superb. A Lt. Paris of the Seattle Police Department is chasing a small time bio-killer in the area, and he is quickly caught up in a much larger scenario, one of natures' making. Much of the story involves a Dr. Elaine Wilkes who has research data for a vaccine against the plague, others are intersted in getting their hands on this data for their own self-interest. There are many characters in this novel, all are fully formed and believable, the story was a page turner for me, well worth reading, and scientifically plausible.	2004-01-11
US	52841839	R2NGDPOV7CFNFZ	038549081X	709722953	The Handmaid's Tale	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Enlightened Reading!	In this novel the Handmaids are potentially fertile women assigned to Commanders, who are high level members of a right wing regime whose wives are infertile, you can guess the rest. This is in an era after the U.S. Congress and the President were murdered, and these right-wing bible followers form a society (called the Republic of Gilead) where women have no rights and are valued primarily for their reproductive ability, the Handmaids are'nt even allowed to read. Purges of political enemies are frequent. The primary character is portrayed through a diary she has written, it gives a moving personal account of her life as a Handmaid, very introspective. Overall, this novel seems to be a satiric expose' of where extreme right-wing religious and political thinking can lead us, and these elements do exist today in the United States of America, some actually even in power. A very interesting and well written novel, it kept my interest and should be appealing to most people.	2003-12-21
US	52841839	R2IOQ6AW0CLGQC	0345363418	329791624	A Gift Upon the Shore	Books	5	17	19	N	N	10 Stars If I Could!	This novel supposedly takes place in the near future, beginning just before a nuclear war and subsequent plague decimates the human population. Mary Hope is the principle character, and she relates a story that begins when she is a young woman and progresses until she is older, in her 60's, this story being told to a young man named Stephen as Mary attempts to prepare him to eventually replace her as the teacher of their small group on the Oregon coast. Most of the group is of a fanatical religious bent and she has to carefully navigate through this. Author M. K. Wren gives us this interesting tale through the perspective of a woman, and I am aware that women tend to be more introspective than men are, of emotions and their environment, and also more attuned and sensitive to interpersonal relationships, this is all very evident in this novel, and well done. The story is very philosophical, I loved it. The underlying message is that the human race has squandered precious resources preparing for war, plunging us into worldwide recession, culminating in nuclear war and plague. There is no ultimate right and wrong, only human values and the importance we ourselves place on them. <br />The story gives graphic detail of events at the \\"end\\" and far past it, made me feel as though I was really there. It illustrates the strong will and determination some people possess in the face of calamity, and a quest to save part of civilization.  I loved the rational world-view of the two principal characters, Mary and Rachel, no mythmaking or herd behavior with these ladies, they accept the true nature of the universe. A very poetic novel, always reflective, I savored every word.	2003-12-07
US	52841839	R1I42LJJN48OK5	0441010725	701127178	Singularity Sky	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Space Opera Meets The Singularity	About 250 light years from Earth a planet called Rochard's World is being 'attacked' by an entity going by the name of \\"The Festival\\", which gives the inhabitants of Rochard's World almost anything they want in exchange for seemingly very little. Rochard's World is a colony of \\"The New Republic\\" which, in this far future novel, prohibits, due to religious beliefs and philosophy, imports and use of technology above a certain level, including life extension medical benefits. The New Republic, in their reactionary way, sends starships across time and space to defeat The Festival, not even knowing the true nature of the 'enemy'. One of the technologies outlawed by The New Republic is nanotechnology, so it may seem they are at a disadvantage from the beginning. They spend much of their time on board ship polishing their extensive brass fittings, laughable. Martin and Rachel, two of the primary characters, have excellent banter between them. Martin is an engineer and Rachel is a U.N. representative, neither are citizens of The New Republic. Lots of intrigue along the way, keeps it interesting. Another power to be reckoned with is the Eschaton, an omnipotent artificial intelligence, which forbids most kinds of time travel for a good reason, The New Republic stands to recieve their wrath for using time travel in their attempt to defeat The Festival. <br />This is all great reading, part of it old-fashioned space opera of The New Republic and their pre-nanotech strategies as they go against post-singularity nanotech. I took one star off of my review as I thought Charles Stross at times had an unclear writing style, sometimes I had difficulty making some sense of what I was reading, but this is a minor criticism, this novel is very good and well worth your time.	2003-11-20
US	52841839	R1LIMWC4ZZADMD	0060931396	313139072	Alas, Babylon (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Disaster Classic!	Written by Pat Frank (a.k.a. Harry Hart) in the late 1950's at the height of the cold war, this novel illustrates the terror of nuclear war and the struggle for survival in it's aftermath. The story centers around a small town in central Florida and how the inhabitants cope with shortages of almost everything, as trade and commerce break down following a nuclear war. The characters are fully formed and believeable and the words flow off the pages in an easy to read style. Being written about 45 years ago, this book does reflect the fears, and technology, of it's time. For example, Soviet submarines had to move close to our shores before they fired their missiles, today's longer ranged missiles don't require that, and there are references to long ago retired B-47 and B-58 bombers, etc.. Also, racial prejudices are evident in this novel, as segregation was still active in the southern U.S. in the 1950's, by no means am I saying that Pat Frank is a racist, he was not condoning it, in fact, quite the opposite. All of this gives this novel an interesting historical flair, kind of like stepping back into the 50's as you read this book, a fascinating perspective indeed. <br />This book is one of the classic &quot;end of the world as we know it&quot; novels, well worth reading and hard to put down at times. The trials and tribulations the survivors went through, and their triumphs, are amazing, it is a timeless story. If you like these types of novels two other books of this genre that I liked are EARTH ABIDES by George Stewart, and THE POSTMAN, by David Brin.	2003-11-08
US	52841839	RAVSB5OZUF1EX	0066214122	245555180	Prey	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Dangerous Side Of Nanotechnology	You could say that this is a modern day version of the classic THE ANDROMEDA STRAIN Michael Crichton wrote many years ago (also a fine movie). But here, instead of an alien virus menacing humankind, it is a villan of humans' own making, nanotechnology out of control, which in this book consists of microscopic machines on the rampage. The neo-Luddites should love this book. I suppose that, considering the vast potential and sheer power nanotechnology will probably give humanity someday, I can understand that we should be wary of this technology, proceeding with caution and with appropriate controls in place. <br />Judging the novel solely in it's literary merits, I found the story engrossing and well written, although at times a bit far-fetched. Plot and character development were superb, it will keep your interest, and it is an excellent addition to the genre of disaster novels. In addition, interspersed throughout the book are little tidbits on different aspects of science, you can learn and it is not overbearing.	2003-11-02
US	52841839	R353ZKMM30HX1C	0470821027	509460397	The Dollar Crisis: Causes, Consequences, Cures	Books	4	11	13	N	N	The Ultimate Credit And Asset Bubble Has Arrived!	This is the remarkable story of how the dollar, unsupported by gold anymore, has gotten us into a financial mess. The obvious cause, Duncan states, is the propensity of Americans to buy inexpensive foreign made products instead of more costly American made products, workers in most other countries work for far lower wages than their American counterparts do. This outflow of dollars contributed, and is perhaps the primary cause of, the Asian and Japanese financial crises, as these exported dollars, in paying for America's large trade deficit, stimulated and overheated their economies by causing excess production capacity to be built, which later resulted in over-production and a downward deflationary price cycle.  Most of these exported dollars, however, eventually found their way back into the United States (if these counties were to exchange their dollars into their own currencies, Duncan explains, it would increase the value of their currency in relation to the dollar and make their exports more expensive to Americans and thereby be less competitive, they would not like that). These dollars coming back to the United States are invested in various investment vehicles such as Treasury bonds, stocks, real estate, etc., but eventually, Duncan writes, these dollars find their way into banks, which overstimulates our economy by driving up real estate and stock prices to exorbitant levels,  creating vastly expanded credit and very low interest rates. Basically, Duncan says stock market and real estate bubbles formed. Duncan goes on to write that our trade deficit with other countries amounts to 50 million dollars AN HOUR. Americans are living far beyond their means, with very little in real savings for bad times. Duncan many times writes that it is inevitable that the dollar must come down in value in relation to other currencies. When that happens, and Americans are forced to live within their means, it could spell economic chaos in the United States and in the exporting counties who depend on the economic engine the United States was as a major importer. <br />Duncan says many times that equilibrium in trade between the United States and other counties must, sooner or later, be restored, and he gives reasons for this. Duncan proposes that a minimum wage be set in exporting counties, in jobs associated with exports, as a way of stimulating internal consumer demand to offset the eventual decline in exports to the Unites States, well, all I can say to this is something like this or similar must be done soon, as the alternative, Duncan says, is a protracted worldwide economic depression. I took one star off <BR>in my review as I thought Duncan at times repeated himself with excess at times. Overall, a very informative book. Another good book to read, of a similar topic, is FINANCIAL RECKONING DAY  by William Bonner, with Addison Wiggin.	2003-10-23
US	52841839	R3T5WI55LKBPEE	0471449733	693086628	Financial Reckoning Day: Surviving the Soft Depression of the 21st Century	Books	5	31	41	N	N	Shrewd Common Sense!	Reading this book is to turn on the spigot, the information and common sense flows freely. The first chapter describes the technology bubble of the 90's and the many hustlers associated with it. Chapter two reviews many of the blunders people have made over the years, Bonner and Wiggin along the way state that mistakes are inevitable and are often repeated. People are sometimes prone to self destruction, and he gives many examples. The third chapter covers John Law and the origins of paper money, the beginning of fiat currency and rampant speculation. The fourth chapter focuses on Japan and the financial bubble that took place there, and it's consequences. The fifth chapter covers the legacy of Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan (not a rosy picture) and the lack of a gold standard in today's international trade balances, which is discussed throughout the book. The sixth chapter illustrates how mob behavior influences individual thinking, and how it is not always rational, and how democracy fits into all of this, how we are not as free as we think we are, this part is a 'must' read. Chapter seven introduces the 'hard' reality of demographics and why aging populations many times spell doom for economies. Chapter eight deals with the economic mess the United States is currently in, one of our own making. Chapter nine, the last chapter, reviews and condenses the major points of the book. Along the way Bonner and Wiggin laments the current phase of 'empire building' the United States is currently in, saying empires eventually end badly, a point that should be taken by our leaders in Washington, D.C.. Also, the authors state many times that when things get out of hand and financial bubbles form, people nearly always get what they deserve. The internet bubble popped in the United States already, the current consumer credit and real estate bubbles are still going strong, when and if they will pop the authors only say they &quot;ought&quot; to. <br />This is an excellent book for investors of all kinds to read, even for people just interested in our economy. To those people who believe that the 'buy and hold' stategy for stock ownership is the best way to make money in the stock market, and they anticipate making back the loses that they may have incurred over that last three years, they may be very mistaken.	2003-10-11
US	52841839	R35XSP2C6RNVC5	0765304368	505704893	Down and Out in the Magic Kingdom	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Rollicking Good Ride!	In an era where money is no longer used (Whuffie is used instead, a novel idea) and death is non-existent for those desiring to live forever (get killed and you are simply installed in a new body, with your latest mind backup serving as your new point of reference) Walt Disney World continues on. The Disney World of this future is ran by groups of 'ad-hocs' who sometimes compete with each other to 'improve' the attractions there. This competition sometimes gets out of control, which is the basic theme of this novel. Jules is the central character, and his trials and tribulations concerning this competition makes for an astounding story. <br />Cory Doctorow has written a short and sweet novel here, one that should interest science fiction fans in general, and Disney World fans in particular. The descriptions of the attractions Cory brings to the reader are almost as good as being there. In addition, I loved the method Jules uses to navigate large crowds, well worth reading.	2003-10-05
US	52841839	RVL39AQMFSK59	0345457684	556713066	Altered Carbon (Takeshi Kovacs)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	This Is A Very, Very Good Novel	This is Morgan's first novel, as far as I am concerned this could have been his one hundreth novel, it is that well done, professional in every detail, from plot and character development to scenery and background discriptions, and banter between characters, all superb. There are lots of plausible hard science fiction ideas portrayed here, including the storing of people on data disks, cloning, also it is a time for immortality for those who can afford it, with death just an inconvenience as the deceased  are simply 're-sleeved' into a new body, natural or artificial. Morgan treats all of these ideas with an original twist, none in and of itself is particularly original (is there anything today truly original?). A person's consciousness is located as a back-up in a cortical stack at the base of the brain. Takeshi Kovaks, the primary character, finds himself re-awakened many light-years and time from the planet he was living on prior, where he was violently killed, and Kovaks very quickly becomes immersed in a mystery to be solved.  <br />To me good science fiction presents to the reader a future that is not only possible, but likely. A good writer can write about a future that has undergone a paradigm shift, and values the majority today consider important are no longer valid, and Richard Morgan does just that here in this novel in fine fashion. At 375 pages it appears to be of moderate length, but this is a 'trade' paperback, lots of words on each page, it takes a bit of time to read. The mystery Morgan spins here will keep you guessing, and includes very realistic settings. A word of caution for those who don't like novels with rough edges, there is plenty of violence and sex here, very earthy.	2003-10-02
US	52841839	R3SXK2WJSXZVNW	0441009549	748200717	The Forge of Mars	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Fast- Paced Adventure!	In this circa mid 21st century tale by this relatively unknown author, a group on Mars discovers remnants of an alien culture that colonized Mars in the distant past. Unbeknownst to them, another group on Earth for decades had other pieces of the alien technology, kept in secret. One of the groups wants to use the technology to gain international power and they will stop at nothing to unlock the secrets of the alien technology. Nanotechnologist Tau Wolfsinger, of American Indian descent, and his girlfriend and others, are caught up in this power struggle, and there are unforeseen consequences as a result of messing around with the alien artifacts. No more about it, no spoilers!<br />This story was well written except for a couple of things, one was the battle tanks on Mars in the mid 21st century. Give me a break, sending even lightweight tanks to Mars in the year 2050 would be prohibitively expensive. Otherwise, no major criticisms, and this novel was written in an easy to read style and should keep your interest. Character development was superb, well worth reading, and you will even learn a little about American Indian philosophy and rituals.	2003-09-07
US	52841839	RKD55KQSBIF6H	1400046890	437487101	The Next Big Thing Is Really Small: How Nanotechnology Will Change the Future of Your Business	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Near-Term Nanotechnology	Although this book centers on how nanotechnology may impact today's businesses and steps managers must take to avoid being \\"disrupted\\" by this new technology, it can be read by anyone with an interest in nanotech. Nanotechnology, in case you don't know, is simply the ability to manipulate individual atoms and molecules and control their placement. I found that this book was written in an easy to read style, I breezed through it. The authors cover nanotech in mostly the near term only, the next 20 years or so, with little attention given to assemblers and molecular machines and cell repair devices, which are the true long term potential of nanotech (for more on this read the classic ENGINES OF CREATION  by K. Eric Drexler). To think these devices will never be built would be to artificially accept limits to technology that are not there, nature uses assemblers all the time. In fairness to the authors they did bring up these points, but I do believe that the long term potential of nanotech should have been discussed in more length. This criticism aside, if you want an up to date overview of current nanotech research, and products now on the market, and where we are headed in the near term, this book is excellent. It is somewhat amazing at how much progress has already been made, in applications ranging from structural materials to medical applicaions, there are literally hundreds of uses even for the low tech nano we have now. At the end of each chapter the authors include \\"nanopoints\\" to summarize the preceding chapter, very useful.	2003-08-20
US	52841839	R22WPB0XMESLE2	0743436466	475373918	The Nanotech War (Star Trek: Voyager)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Enjoyable Science Fiction	The starship Voyager, in need of repairs after an ion storm, arrives at the planet Chiar, which has just aquired warp drive technology. The Chiar use nanotechnology in every aspect of their lives, it is ubiquitous there, and they seem peaceful enough. They are willing to help the Voyager crew with repairs, in exchange for minor software items, but it is soon learned that the Chair are in the midst of global strife, and several factions want the Borg nanotechnology that Seven incorporates in her body, to supplement their own nanotechnology and aid them in their war effort. The characters of Seven of Nine, Tom Paris, B'Elanna, and Chakotay are highlighted with good character development inside a superb storyline. <br />I would classify this as a light summer read, great for Star Trek fans and sci-fi readers in general. The story has an interesting twist near the end as well.	2003-08-15
US	52841839	R3FD3N9AO11KBX	0965998304	371510779	The story of Silver Dollar City: A pictorial history of Branson's famous Ozark Mountain village theme park	Books	5	3	5	N	N	An Excellent History Of Silver Dollar City	As an aficionado of Silver Dollar City I very much enjoyed this concise history of one of America's premier theme parks, located near Branson, Missouri. Author Crystal Payton presents the history of S.D.C. in an interesting and easy to read style with plenty of great illustrations, from it's humble beginnings near the entrance to Marble Cave (now Marvel Cave) to the present time. The book itself is a large format paperback of high quality. The theme of S.D.C., in case you don't know, centers around the 1880's, most everything there has a flavor of that time, even the roller coasters and other rides. Payton also covers in detail attractions at today's S.D.C., including food, crafts, festivals, music, and of course rides, etc.. I especially liked the text and pictures about when &quot;The Beverly Hillbillies&quot; filmed on location at S.D.C. in 1969, I think that show is one of the best ever! &quot;You've Got A Great Past Ahead Of You&quot; (one of the slogans of S.D.C.) describes this park perfectly, this book is well worth the money.	2003-08-03
US	52841839	R3V63QEM5CI36I	0865714827	597041364	The Party's Over: Oil, War and the Fate of Industrial Societies	Books	5	138	150	N	N	Up The Creek Without A Paddle!	This volume begins with a discussion of what energy is and how it has been used to develop our industrial way of life. Brief histories of wood, coal, and oil use are also included. Much of this book centers around the amounts of oil, coal, and natural gas remaining to be harnessed in the future, with several experts giving their predictions for the peak production of the world production of oil, not far away by most accounts. The United States had it's oil production peak in 1970 (predicted in 1956 by M. King Hubbert) and has been in decline since, with a slight temporary increase in the 1980's due to Alaskan oil. <br />As Richard Heinberg emphasizes continually in this book, the decline in world oil production seems imminent, along with the ensuing decline in national industrial economies which rely on oil, the United States being by far the biggest example. Per capita energy use by Americans is five times the world average, Heinberg writes, and he makes it abundantly clear that this waste and extravagance cannot continue much longer, and no number of Iraqi type excursions will make a difference. Heinberg writes that this decline of energy availability and use can be achieved peacefully with individual countries cooperating with each other, or violently with nations squabbling over the remaining oil. However, one thing stands out very clearly now, back in the 1970's during the initial problems with energy shortages due to the Arab oil embargo, it should have been a wake-up call to our leaders to develop sustainable energy sources then, it was not done, our short-sighted leaders failed us. But as Heinberg says, corporate leaders are also at fault, with their massive self-interest at risk, they could make less money if the country shifted more to alternate energy sources, and their lobby is very strong on Capital Hill in Washinton, D.C.. If that alternate energy program was began on a massive scale in the 1970's we would probably be in much better shape now, in termsof our energy future, but as Heinberg states in this book, at this late stage our options are limited. The massive industrial military machine the United States has is given attention here also, as Heinberg writes, this massive allocation of resources can and should be directed to more pressing concerns, the citizens of the United States do not need a military budget that equals the rest of the world combined (we are'nt going to fight the Soviets, that is now clear).   <br />This volume also covers alternate energy sources today, and what they can do to help us in the future, again, as Heinberg says, we have began with too little and too late to prevent a collapse of our industrial way of life. How large of a collapse will it be? No one is certain. Heinberg also touches on the subject of overpopulation and immigration. Did you know that approximately 90% of the population growth in the United States over the next 50 years will be due to immigration? This is an area that has been neglected, and as Heinberg says, it is politically sensitive and politicians rarely stick their necks out in areas such as this. Also, in terms of overpopulation, have we, due to the use of oil in creating a large world food supply, exceeded the carrying capacity of the planet? This is another area Heinberg writes much about. <br />Heinberg envisions, after the world oil supply peaks and begins it's inevitable decline, a slower paced, more idyllic lifestyle, and as he says, probably a more agreeable one, at that, to most people.	2003-07-27
US	52841839	R124AWWE4PHMIK	0743462785	746190233	What Price Honor? (Enterprise)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Excellent Science Fiction!	I have to admit, I was surprised at how good this book is. The character and plot development are first rate, second to none. This was a rare page-turning novel for me, kept my interest almost all the way through, a great accomplishment indeed. The story concerns itself with a distress call in uncharted space which the Enterprise answers, and from there things get out of hand for a time. Lieutenant Malcolm Reed is the primary character in this story, author Dave Stern does an admirable job with him here. There are twists in the plot that will surprise you, and it is all believable and coherent, which a lot of science fiction lacks today. Well deserving of five stars, and well worth reading.	2003-07-19
US	52841839	R2NK1IVBQ0DV7T	0765343649	277915668	Archform: Beauty	Books	4	1	3	N	N	A Science Fiction Mystery	In an era approximately 400 years in the future ubiquitous nanotechnology has made many items free or very cheap, and lifespans and health have been improved much. But are people truly happier with what technology has provided, more happy than before? And what about artistic creation and the sense of beauty, how has technology impacted it, and have most people lost the creative talent and instead rely on technology for creativity? These are some of the issues L.E. Modesitt Jr. raises in this fascinating novel while writing about the lives of five disparate individuals whose lives become intrinsically connected. The plot is very complex, with many characters involved, there is a mystery to be solved here. However, at times I thought the reading was a bit dull, one star off for that.	2003-07-13
US	52841839	RM6TWLTWNPN94	0743464559	974930713	Shockwave (Star Trek: Enterprise)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	An Excellent Novel!	Early in this novel an away team from the Enterprise enters the atmosphere of an alien planet in a shuttlecraft, and from there events seem to spin out of control, as the Enterprise crew is accused of possible negligence in the loss of thousands of lives. Most of this book involves the Enterprise crew trying to find out the details of what happened and vindicate themselves. The Vulcans still largely believe that Terrans should not be exploring interstellar space as they view earth as not ready for the challenges it presents. The plot has it's complications as beings able to travel from the future to the past provide many twists. I can say here that I did enjoy this novel, although it was not one of my favorite Star Trek adventures. This work by Paul Ruditis is the novelization of the final episode for season one and the first episode of season two for Star Trek: Enterprise, overall well worth reading for any Star Trek fan, and others who like science fiction.	2003-06-12
US	52841839	R1LFN30QNO9Z7A	0743448626	14060509	Broken Bow (Star Trek: Enterprise)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The Beginning Of Starfleet	This novel by veteran Star Trek writer Diane Carey is based upon the first 'Star Trek: Enterprise' episode, Broken Bow. It lays the foundation for the formation of Starfleet, which of course came before 'The United Federation Of Planets', and includes some events leading up to the aquisition of warp technology (this book is more detailed than the television version) including a bit more about Zephran Cochran, the inventor of warp drive on earth. This is really fascinating stuff. The plot and storyline are good, as is character development, required reading for any serious Star Trek fan. This book also goes into some detail concerning the start of Vulcan-Terran cooperation and mutual trust and respect, very interesting coverage here. This is great science fiction on any standard, well worth reading, written in an easy to read, flowing style.	2003-05-11
US	52841839	RFBWASDHIGQZN	0061052892	98363606	Antibodies (The X-files)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Entertaining	The subject matter here more appropriately should reside in the realm of science fiction, but here we are, taking a technology that will someday help billions of people, and complicating it with conspiracies and paronoia. But what else would a person expect, as this is THE X FILES and a lot of rationality is out the door anyway: give the audience what they want, mind-numbing entertainment. Regardless of this, the novel here is nevertheless well worth reading as it introduces the new science of nanotechnology to many people who have never heard of it before. The story is actually very well done in spite of it's sensationalism and exaggerations, with Mulder and Scully investigating the explosive destruction of a cancer research lab under mysterious circumstances. The plot developes superbly from there and is quite good to the end. However, if you desire to learn more about nanotechnology and what it can mean to you personally, read THE FIRST IMMORTAL by James Halperin, this is informed and well-thought-out science fiction, probably eventually to become science-fact in the decades to come.	2003-05-07
US	52841839	R28UM1S2R94X2W	0743406419	424138464	Garth of Izar (Star Trek: the Original Series)	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Dull And A Bit Confusing!	The beginning of this novel consists of a disjointed dream by James Kirk in which the villan switches between Romulans and Klingons in midstream, although I have to say in defense of the writers than dreams often do not make much sense, so this can be explanined in that way. This novel is based on a character in the earlier original series, the authors state that this character rivals Khan in interest; I like at least one previous reviewer disagree. Overall, my impression of this novel was one of slight boredom as I read it, it just did'nt have that spark that the top Star Trek novels have, this is just pulp science fiction, average and run-of-the-mill. Pamela Sargent and George Zebrowski are veteran Star Trek writers, and perhaps when two talented writers work together it kind of muddies the waters, with the result being a work that seems to be a result of tedious labor and not much inspiration. My favorite Star Trek novel is SPOCK'S WORLD, this novel is not nearly as good. However, if you are like me and partial to the original series it is nevertheless well worth reading.	2003-04-30
US	52841839	R1FOHFGRC5JOYM	0743406419	424138464	Garth of Izar (Star Trek: the Original Series)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Dull And A Bit Confusing!	The beginning of this novel consists of a disjointed dream by James Kirk in which the villan switches between Romulans and Klingons in midstream, although I have to say in defense of the writers that dreams often do not make much sense, so this can be explained in that way. This novel is based on a character in the earlier original series, the authors state that this character rivals Khan in interest; I like at least one previous reviewer disagree. Overall, my impression of this novel was one of slight boredom as I read it, it just did'nt have that spark that the top Star Trek novels have, this is just pulp science fiction, average and run-of-the-mill. Pamela Sargent and George Zebrowski are veteran Star Trek writers, and perhaps when two talented writers work together it kind of muddies the waters, with the result being a work that seems to be a result of tedious labor and not much inspiration. My favorite Star Trek novel is SPOCK'S WORLD, this novel is not nearly as good. However, if you are like me and partial to the original series it is nevertheless well worth reading.	2003-04-30
US	52841839	R29O34KD7T0RBA	0743462807	708215416	Surak's Soul (Star Trek Enterprise)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A Beautiful Mind	This relatively short Star Trek novel by a veteran writer concerns itself with a less-than-perfect first contact with a new humanoid species. In it, Vulcan Sub-Commander T'Pol has to come to terms with her training in the pacifist tradition all Vulcan's learn at an early age, and how to reconcile this with the reality of everyday circumstances. This concept was developed very well by the author J.M. Dillard, furthering the understanding of Vulcan's and their way of thought. In addition, part of this novel is devoted to how some other crew members feel towards T'Pol, considering her as &quot;incredibly intelligent, courteous, refined, dignified&quot;, adding to her lure. This book is well worth reading, done in fine Star Trek style.	2003-04-25
US	52841839	R2CYOBQT9FDATT	0553578898	841387201	Tomorrow and Tomorrow	Books	4	6	6	N	N	An Epic Tale	Charles Sheffield does a fine job here in this eons spanning tale, to me at least it mostly appears plausible. Here you will read of cryonic suspensions, control of matter at the atomic level, downloading of minds into other vessels of thought, a universe of post-humanity, and many other amazing things, it was page-turning material for me. The primary character is Drake Merlin, his wife died of an untreatable condition and he had her cryonically suspended, willing to do practically anything to bring her back to him, an obsession indeed. He goes through many trials and tribulations along the way, all of this is believable in the hard science fiction tradition. I could relate to the refreshing world-view permeating this novel, no myth filled views here, this is a journey into unimaginable stretches of time, well worth reading. The only real criticism I found in this book is how Sheffield treats the subject of cryonic suspension, he does seem to present many inaccuracies, a minor point here, but I do take one star off for it. For a better description of how cryonics actually works in real life read &quot;The First Immortal&quot; by James Halperin, or &quot;Tech Heaven&quot; by Linda Nagata. These two are very fine novels and not to be missed for the science fiction aficionado.	2003-04-13
US	52841839	R2P3BKWJKTIN1I	159196153X	577012969	The Great Bust Ahead: The Greatest Depression in American and UK History is Just Several Short Years Away. This is your Concise Reference Guide to Understanding Why and How Best to Survive It	Books	5	112	135	N	N	THIS VERY LIKELY WILL OCCUR!	Daniel Arnold illustrates here how the stock market has performed over the last 80 years, and why it has, and he also extrapolates it's performance out to about 2035, with a very bad economic depression starting sometime around 2012. Arnold uses demographics to come to his conclusions and he presents a very solid case indeed. He rightly criticizes stock market analysts for their short term forecasts, and also Alan Greenspan for faulty work also. This is a short, concise, and to the point book, I found it fascinating. About the only possible flaw I saw in this book is that Arnold believes that during the coming depression oil prices may hit [$$] a barrel. But if you read HUBBERT'S PEAK: THE IMPENDING WORLD OIL SHORTAGE by Kenneth Deffeyes, a picture of oil shortages emerges instead, which would exacerbate the economic decline. It will be interesting to see which force wins out here. On a personal note, I remember everyone buying those Nasdaq stocks in a frenzy back in the late 1990's, most of those companies were losing money right and left and their shares were selling for [$$-$$]dollars, or more! I thought it was a good example of \\"you scratch my back and I'll scratch yours.\\" Of course everyone knows that bubble burst. Japan's stock market bubble burst about 10 years ago, due in large part by an older generation spending less. The United States is headed the way of Japan, the massive post-war generation soon retiring and putting a damper big time on the economy. Arnold uses many graphs in this book, he clearly shows that the next handful of years may be okay, but watch out afterwards, the party may be over in a big way. The final few pages gives advice on what can be done on a personal basis to survive in the tough times ahead. Another interesting book to read, older by a few years is THE RETIREMENT MYTH by Craig Karpel.	2003-04-03
US	52841839	RP1OP8Z2Y6OI3	0441005667	204362253	Forever Peace	Books	5	2	2	N	N	WARMONGERS VERSUS HUMANISTS	This novel is partly about the seemingly endless conflict of those who believe war is wrong, for any reason, and those who think force is the answer. The Alliance, made mostly of rich countries, is at war with the Ngumi, which is primarily an underground group in third-world countries, and they do not own any nanoforges, which the Alliance controls. These nanoforges can make almost anything, all that is required is a bit of energy and cheap raw materials, and programming. This is a classic case of the have's trying to keep their monopoly on power and wealth. Joe Haldeman has wrote a page-turning account here, also full of ideas on how future warfare will take place. One example here is the use of \\"soldierboys\\" which are fully manipulative humanoid robots that are controlled by \\"mechanics\\" perhaps hundreds of miles away, safe in a bunker, via \\"jacks\\" that have been installed in their brains, giving them full sensory control. In addition, the \\"jacks\\" also allow total mental contact between people who have been \\"jacked\\", and there proves to be many implications from this. Haldeman is a Vietnam veteran himself so he gives much realism to warfare, seemingly from firsthand experience. <br />There is more to this novel as well. A right-wing religious extremist group called the \\"Enders\\" have an agenda of their own, and a discovery concerning a very large particle accelerator located around the planet Jupiter has implications for all. This novel takes place sometime towards the middle of the 21st century, and I found it for the most part to be a page-turning account, I could relate very well with the personal philosophy of the main character. The plot and character development are at a level to be expected of a first class science fiction writer. I think you will not be disappointed if you read this novel.	2003-03-28
US	52841839	R118OGBAY6WZHI	0679308806	347949682	The Cobra Event	Books	4	1	3	N	N	A Factual Novel	Richard Preston here does an exemplary job of weaving historical and modern facts into a well written novel. He obviously knows his facts when writing about viruses and hot zones, etc.. Besides being an interesting novel in it's own right, Preston has a lot to say here about epidemiology, forensics, and how autopsies are done. There are descriptions of gruesome, drawn out deaths in this book, and some of this is just sick, sick, sick, but it will keep you turning the pages, fascinating nevertheless. Much of this novel concerns itself with the science of forensics, it is interesting how scientists can gleam information out of what at first glance may seem to be very little evidence, and alone this would make the book worth reading. I took one star off of my rating as the novel seemed to me to start very slowly and it was really only the last one third of it that it got intense, but overall a good solid read.	2003-03-13
US	52841839	R3ISFX0ZN2KJA8	0380974576	916671943	Nekropolis	Books	3	4	8	N	N	This Is Science Fiction?	This novel may be classified as science fiction, but it is big on fiction and short on the science part. The story is about a young girl who lives in Morocco, sometime in the future, who has been jessed, which basically makes her a slave and obedient to her owners, and a genetically engineered man who has been designed to please his human owners, he is another type of slave. A love story of sorts develops between these two and causes great strife with the family of the girl. This Morocco of the future is full of prejudice and class divisions which adds to the story.  <br />My inpression of this novel is that it meanders back and forth between different characters and just does'nt really go anywhere, with no redeeming factor to make it worthwhile. However, I will say that Maureen McHugh is superb at giving this novel lots of human interest details, very emotional at times, and she is also good at describing the settings in which the characters find themselves in. Finally, the ending just kind of faded away, I am not critical of this, but just be aware of it.	2003-03-02
US	52841839	RHU5TE2HLQD8Y	0446326305	163485872	Warday	Books	5	6	7	N	N	This could Very Well Happen!	On 10-28-88 the Soviet Union and the United states engaged in a limited and very brief nuclear war. In the United States the cities San Antonio, Washington, D.C., and New York, were either totally or mostly destroyed. In addition, missile silos in the upper midwest were also targeted, with persistant radiation being spread over a wide area. Five years later the reporters Jim Kunetka and Whitley Strieber embark on a tour of a much changed United States to document these changes. Travel is sometimes unreliable and dangerous, and these changes as the result of the war are truly phenomenal. In many places civil liberties are much reduced, and the economy is in chaos. All lives have been changed, one way or another, it brought out the best in some people and the worst in others. And the United States is no longer a superpower. <br />This novel was written around 1984 and it does seem a bit dated. If it was written today one could substitute terrorists for the old Soviet Union, and add chemical and biological weapons to the nuclear weapons. Nevertheless the authors have written a riveting account, full of human interest, and with so much intensity and realism that it was hard to put down.  <br />Toward the end of this book one of the characters was ruminating that the warmth and softness of home was better than perhaps anything else in the world, and in the final estimation personal relationships and mundane things we often take for granted are what is important, not a far off central government that does'nt even exist anymore and which has proven dangerous. If nothing else, this novel will make you \\"think\\", it did for me.	2003-02-17
US	52841839	R14PRG52YVBYR4	038080350X	449835751	Crescent City Rhapsody	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Too Long!	After the first couple of pages I already liked one of the primary characters, Marie, and I was hooked. This novel really illustrates, as I believe, that it is science and technology, nanotechnology here in this novel, that determines our future, and not what politicians allow or disallow, the technology just moves underground or overseas if necessary, and the politicians are left to their window dressing, science determining ultimately how we live.<br />However, as I read more of this book I found myself in a tedious, long drawn out affair, with so many characters it was hard to keep track of them all. Because of this I felt a diversion of interest, just too much to keep track of. I did like the philosophy that permeates this novel as a whole, very refreshing indeed. This novel occurs in the same universe as two of Goonan's previous novels, QUEEN CITY JAZZ, and MISSISSIPPI BLUES, and this novel explains much of the background of those two novels.	2003-02-09
US	52841839	R3HUVB0A4LVIE	0451458346	80015911	Resurrection	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Amazing, A Class Act!	This is the story of two races who live several light years from us, the Kinley and the Lucien. Both are compassionate races, but neither understood each other, and a war between them that took place 5000 years ago nearly destroyed both races and sent their technologies back centuries and more. The Lucien are threatening the Kinley with more warfare, so the Kinley, in a desperate attempt to save themselves, dispatch a sleeper ship with two Kinley aboard, to Sol, eight light years away, to recover the secrets of a faster-than-light starship their ancestors sent there 5000 years ago on a survey mission just prior to the war with the Lucien, and that ship has not been heard from for about 5000 years, a mystery. The Lucien, after discovering the Kinley mission, send a mission of their own, trying also to get the ancient starship technology before the Kinley can get it, and keep it for themselves. <br />Arwen Dayton is superb at character development and plot. The characters are fully developed, and Dayton really brings out the emotions and thoughts in the characters and projects it all very nicely right off the pages and into your mind. Personally, I do prefer to read science fiction by female writers as they seem to do much better in this area than male writers do, and if you are like me you will care about several of the people in this novel as you read it. And more than that, Dayton illustrates how two alien species, mortal enemies of each other for thousands of years, may not be so different from each other after all. And if you, Arwen Dayton, read this, I have a note for you: well done and keep it coming!	2003-01-25
US	52841839	R26W99SXVEKWPM	0965124010	824545947	The New Madrid Run	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Quite A Ride!	This novel is based on the theory by Richard Noone that an alignment of the planets on 5-5-2000 will shift the earth's rotating axis and possibly cause massive earthquakes and tsunamis. Well, obviously that has not happened (yet), but who knows what disasters await us in the future, man-made or not. <br />Nevertheless, this story is a fascinating account, how the survivors meet, and how they managed in a hostile world after the loss of civilization. One of them, Carlos, will have you laughing a lot. Travis Christian is the principle character, and with him as with the others character development is excellent. Travis was an owner of a charter air service in the Florida Keys before the catastrophe, and attempts to lead a group of survivors out of harms way. At times (most of the book) the story will have you turning the pages to see what happens, as I found myself caring for these characters. If you like action, there is plenty of it here.	2003-01-13
US	52841839	R1TYCUA3Z0GKAZ	0743457722	358710206	Nemesis (Star Trek: the Next Generation)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Star Trek At It's Finest!	In this story the Enterprise finds a prototype of the android Data near the Romulan neutral zone, and soon after the Enterprise is called upon to visit the planet Romulus at the request of Shinzon, the new Praeter of the Romulan Empire. Shinzon has a mysterious origin, soon to be revealed, and he professes peace between Romulus and the Federation, but can he be trusted? This novel is full of intrigue and action, and becomes philosophical at times, in a well concieved plot, with good character development, a joy to read even after first seeing the movie. Much of this novel centers around Data and what it means to be human, including friendships perhaps worth dying for, very well executed. <br />I have seen the movie also, I consider it to be one of the two top films for 2002, no exceptions, and about as good as THE WRATH OF KHAN. The screenplay was written by John Logan, Rick Berman, and Brent Spiner, with the novelization by J.M. Dillard, all Star Trek fans in their own right and also great talent. John Logan gives a moving introduction here in this book. This is great page-turning science fiction.	2003-01-10
US	52841839	R39BZDAZ5Q89DT	0521793483	395097711	Lifting Titan's Veil: Exploring the Giant Moon of Saturn	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Titan And The Pursuit Of Science	This is an exciting time for planetary exploration, when after the solar system has been reconnoitered by spacecraft (except Pluto) and now spacecraft are being sent to specific planets and moons, etc., for closer examination. LIFTING TITAN'S VEIL covers the Cassini mission to Saturn and it's large moon Titan, known to possess a thick atmosphere and perhaps a hydrocarbon ocean, due to insert itself into Saturnian orbit in July, 2004, the attached Huygens probe should enter Titan's atmosphere January, 2005. <br />The authors include a lot of science in this volume, including background information concerning moons and planets across the solar system. Most of this book covers Titan of course, what we know about it and how we came about that knowledge, from early times to the present. Titan's atmosphere and surface and sub-surface conditions recieve the most attention, with the chemistry of the atmosphere discussed at length. Also, the authors debate the possibility of an ethane/methane ocean existing on Titan as the surface temperature, according to available evidence, is close to the triple point of methane. All of this science can of course, as the authors point out, shed light on the formation and evolution of the solar system and in turn give us clues to our own origins in the misty past. As a chemist I especially enjoyed the information on the chemistry of Titan, and the space-buff in me enjoyed all of it. In addition, the Cassini spacecraft is detailed, and there are lots of illustrations, many in color. <br />On a personal note, I remember being at the space center as a visitor just a few days before the launch of Cassini, in October, 1997, and thinking that here is this spacecraft sitting out there on the pad just a few hundred yards from the Atlantic beach, I wondered then, will Huygens, at the end of it's journey, find another beach? Space travel is cool!	2002-12-30
US	52841839	R5PS0IR6I69MB	0963865439	925817343	Are We Spiritual Machines?: Ray Kurzweil vs. the Critics of Strong A.I.	Books	5	87	105	N	N	Strong A.I. Versus Pessimism	This is Ray Kurzweil's third book concerning the future of reductionist artificial intelligence design and it's possible effects on us in the decades yet to come. In THE AGE OF SPIRITUAL MACHINES, Kurzweil's previous book, which I enjoyed also, and this volume, he uses technological trends, including Moore's law and other tools, to show that a desktop computer will have achieved human level computational ability around the year 2020. Also, Kurzweil envisions that we will be able, sometime in the next few decades, to scan human brains and download that 'software' into these advanced computers to give them human level reasoning abilities, with the speed of computer neural nets, leaving humans behind, so to speak. Accordingly, it may also be possible to scan individual brains and load that information into an advanced computer (attached to a body of some kind), giving that person a sort of immortality. This is the gist of Kurzweil's argument, I hope I got it essentially correct.<br />What Kuzweil means by computers someday becoming 'spiritual' is that they may become conscious, and 'strong A.I.' is the view that \\"any computational process sufficiently capable of altering or organizing itself can produce consciousness.\\" The first part of this book is an introduction to all of the above views by Kurzweil, followed by criticisms by four authors, followed in turn by Kurzweil as he refutes these criticisms. <br />Personally, I found most of the views expounded by the critics here to be either non-sensical, or 'beside the point'. One critic says that the life support functions of the brain cannot be separated from it's information processing function. Of course it can be, even the effects of hormones can be programmed into a downloaded brain, as well as other chemicals used by brains. Another critic states that possibly evolution is in error, and yet another criticism is that our machines will not be able to contact a divine entity and would thus be inferior.... give me a break, well...perhaps this is all true and maybe pigs will one day fly over the moon unassisted. I could go on and on, but this is the job of Ray Kurzweil and he defends himself admirably in the final chapters of this volume. Kurzweil does mention in this book that brain scanning machines are improving their resolution with each new generation, and eventually will reach a point where they should be able to image individual neurons and synapses in large areas, and allow the brain 'software' to be transferred to a suitable non-biological computing medium, my only criticism of Kurzweil here is that I think he should discuss this technology more, and where it is headed, his next book would be a great place for this. <br />One final point, it seems to me that when a new idea appears to be difficult and complicated to achieve, the pessimist says: \\"This is difficult and complicated, and may not work\\", whereas the optimist says: \\"This is difficult and complicated, but may work\\". Only time will tell for sure.	2002-12-15
US	52841839	R16N1FDSCADEXL	1896522882	662985584	Lost Spacecraft: The Search for Liberty Bell 7: Apogee Books Space Series 28	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A Fascinating Account	This is the amazing story of the search and recovery of Liberty Bell 7, Gus Grissom's 1961 Mercury spacecraft that sank to the bottom of the Atlantic ocean in an accidental sinking after the mission, while the capsule was still floating in the recovery area. Curt Newport is a veteran of deep sea underwater work and he gives readers here a page-turning account of the hardships of working with remote vehicles more than three miles under the surface of the ocean where pressures are 7000 pounds per square inch and more. He also covers the man Gus Grissom, who many considered the top astronaut at the time, including his childhood and later. The Mercury capsule (yes, back then they were called capsules, not spacecraft) is covered in detail, it's construction and operation. Also, the trajectory that this 1961 Mercury-Redstone sub-orbital mission travelled is discussed to some length as it's eventual underwater location is dependent on this. The technology of underwater vehicles is covered in addition, to give readers an appreciation of the difficulty inherent in this type of work. Curt Newport has included many, many, excellent photographs in this book, well done here. The writing style is clear and flowing, a joy to read. This is also one man's story of determination and resilience in the face of negative odds. <br />On a personal note, when I was six years old in 1961 and living in St. Louis County, just a few miles from where this Mercury spacecraft was built, I remember my father coming home from work (he worked at McDonnell Aircraft as an engineer and perhaps did a bit of work on this very spacecraft) and said &quot;it sank to the bottom of the ocean&quot;, referring to the sinking of the Liberty Bell 7 that occurred that day. Liberty Bell 7 was recovered in the summer of 1999, restored , and during a national tour I finally got to see it at the St. Louis Science Center in the summer of 2001, in the city where it was built, closure in a sense to me. It is, or soon will be, on permanent display in Hutchinson, Kansas, at the Kansas Cosmosphere and Space Center, can't wait to go there!	2002-12-10
US	52841839	R3NNV80P6CKIO5	0425189635	513731449	Die Another Day	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Good Read, But A Bit Too Predictable	This novel, by Raymond Benson, is based upon the movie screenplay of the latest Bond movie by the same title, and by the way, I loved the movie. But in my view both the book and the movie had one bothersome flaw, and that is, they are too predictable. I don't blame Benson here with this novel, he was just following the screenplay and I consider Benson a highly capable novelist as he has written several excellent stand alone Bond novels in the past. Perhaps a 'dark' Bond novel or movie could be done, with BOTH of the Bond ladies turning out to be villains, or even Bond himself taking a turn to the 'wild side' and maybe not coming to a conclusion until the next movie, similar to the Star Trek movies in which Spock 'died' in one movie and came back in the next. The ideas are almost endless here, only imagination needed. But this novel is well worth reading regardless, being full of action in a well conceived plot, an easy, fun read.	2002-12-08
US	52841839	R3DP8S41F319CL	0061020257	616600274	Metaplanetary: A Novel of Interplanetary Civil War	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Absolutely Cool!	I have read a lot of good science fiction lately (see my recent reviews) and this is another fine example. It would make a great movie if done true to this work. The premise of this novel is 'what constitutes a human being' and it is present throughout this book. A civil war erupts in the solar system, and much of this war concerns itself about whether or not intelligent algorithms, that is, conscious computers and/or programs, should be allowed full human rights, or are they just property. And what constitutes human status in the first place, do they have to look like us, and think like us, can they be faster, better, and more rational, than original humans? This novel is set one thousand years into the future with a despot attempting to rule the solar system and impose his will on all.  <br />Tony Daniel illustrates how we come to rely on our technology, and take it for granted, and are at a loss when we lose it. He has a multitude of interesting characters here, all with superb character development, in a complex well written plot, very imaginative in the 'hard' science fiction tradition, and it was hilarious at times. Nanotechnology, which is called grist in this novel, allows many things to become possible, and would seem to be near magic to us here in the early 21st century. <br />My only criticism for this book is that Daniel has these characters living 1000 years from now in a world where immortality is not quite here yet, give me a break, nanotech should give immortality to us well before then, I do not take a star off my review for this, my opinion. And there is a sequel coming to this novel, called &quot;Superluminal&quot;, I look forward to it.	2002-11-23
US	52841839	R211V058JSPCKH	0441008925	517711274	Echoes of Earth	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Science Fiction For The Intellectual	This novel begins with a man taking a bath for his first time in about one hundred years, and zips on from there. It is the mid 22nd century and survey ships from earth are arriving at distant stars after very long voyages. The crews consist of engrams which are electronic personalities, copies of real people's minds, sent out to explore distant reaches of space. One ship, the Frank Tipler, was sent to a planet orbiting the star Upsilon Aquarium, over 72 light years from earth. Nanotech can manufacture bodies so the engrams can inhabit them, to work and explore the planet's surface, etc. For the most part the engrams remain aboard ship as cyberspace beings, the real ship only a few meters across, mostly just a computer with few moving parts, cool! Simulated living quarters and bridge create a liveable environment for them, the engrams can even slow or speed up their perception of time as they see a need for, with their internal clocks, so a flight to the stars taking decades may seem to take only a few days to them. All this is really nothing original, these authors, Sean Williams and Shane Dix, use these concepts cleverly in a well written novel. This is the way we will likely explore the stars someday, take human minds as engrams aboard small compact starships, with a mature nanotechnology able to manifest the humans (and any supplies needed) at the destination, using local materials. <br />As with a lot of good science fiction lately, the identity question is given good treatment here: should a person be considered the original, or a copy, as that person's consciousness is tranferred into various formats. Also in this novel the authors feature an alien first contact that is very believable, that is rare and difficult to do, well done here. My only criticism of this book is how a &quot;Spike&quot; (a period of very rapid technological advancement which overturns nearly everything that existed prior...if you don't know) is presented, I feel it was overdone, my opinion. <br />For me this was a great adventure in the hard science fiction tradition, great plot and character development, Dix and Williams are adept at illustrating our oftentimes fragile relationships with each other, brilliantly executed, a page turner and one of the best sci-fi you are likely to find. The authors in my view have left room for a sequel.	2002-11-07
US	52841839	R3HZ12YIVZXSJ6	0312848706	887642373	The Golden Age	Books	5	73	85	N	N	Ten Star Science Fiction!	Life, 10,000 years from now. Read this and you enter into a world of immortal beings where consciousness takes many forms as minds find many diverse vessels in which to inhabit. Nanotechnology, computer science, and other technologies have transformed civilization into a true golden age where Sophotechs (conscious computers who think many times faster than humans)  control nearly everything. The group called the Hortators exhibit much control also, so is this really a golden age as it appears to be at first glance? The primary character here is a man called Phaethon, who has lost a good part of his memory as a result of a process of selective amnesia, a result of previous actions he cannot remember. He becomes obsessed with discovering the missing memories, with much intrigue along the way, and this is at the heart of a great mystery, brimming with passion and intellect, and ambition. <br />John Wright uses much reality based imagination here, this is far-future science fiction at it's best, without reverting to fantasy. I especially enjoyed the questions of personal identity and how that relates to whether or not a person is the original or a copy in cases of transferring minds from one medium to another, very thought provoking, speculation that will surely move from science fiction to reality someday, well done here. To use an old cliche', it does'nt get any better than this, with superb plot and character development. THE GOLDEN AGE is book one of a two book series, the concluding novel is THE PHOENIX EXULTANT, yet to be published.	2002-10-20
US	52841839	R2KCLZJATQB8CP	0312872984	958983509	Legacy of Prometheus	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Mediocre Science Fiction	In this novel, as in reality, oil is becoming scarce, so this gives incentive to an international race to put a solar energy satellite into geostationary orbit to beam energy down to earth. This may actually happen someday, but mabe not, if it does it is decades off, at least. <br />I found the character development to be sketchy at best, with the plot amateurish at times. The ending was abrupt, with the whole novel being a bit too brief. It was not a page turner for me, however I have read worse science fiction than this. According to the cover on this book one of the authors, Eric Kotani, is a pseudonym for a world-class astrophysicist, so there is some actual science included here so not all is lost, it is informative to some extent, but for me it just did'nt have the 'fire' other science fiction I have read did.	2002-09-24
US	52841839	R18UXIF3ZHJYG2	0805059857	956493223	Project Orion: The True Story of the Atomic Spaceship	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Limits Of The Possible	Imagine a nuclear bomb powered spaceship, envisioned in the late 1950's, able to reach the Planet Mars in a few weeks travel time, or Saturn in a year or so, carrying perhaps a thousand ton payload. A detailed engineering design was produced in the 50's and 60's of a ship capable of just that! George Dyson, in this volume, takes readers back in time to that exciting era where the sky was literally the limit. Many physicists are depicted, some unknown and some famous, as are the associated politics, and many technical details also. Project Orion, as it was named, was to be powered by small fission bombs ejected out the back of the spaceship and exploded some distance away, the explosion wave front would collide with a working medium which in turn would hit a pusher plate on the spaceship at high velocity thereby imparting thrust. In fact, this concept is the only method, I believe, that combines high specific impulse with high thrust, using existing technology....it could open up the solar system to colonization. Many thousands of small fission bombs would be required on most missions. The authors father, Freeman Dyson, actually worked on this project for a time, and George Dyson presents here a fascinating account, hard to put down at times. <br />The Orion project was eventually shelved, largely due to it's use of nuclear bombs, but also partly due to NASA's reliance on chemical powered rockets, but it seems clear that with appropriate safeguards, nuclear powered spaceships, advanced descendants of Orion, will someday ply the spaceways between the stars.	2002-09-05
US	52841839	R2OG7NG5JGZ0FK	0061052868	541790331	A King of Infinite Space: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Fine Example Of Hard Science Fiction!	First, I thought it was neat how part of the novel was located in the Saint Louis area, I know some of the places in the book as I grew up there, and I am also a fan of cryonics, so this book and I have a lot in common. I enjoyed the description of how a cryonic suspension works, it seems realistic for the most part. <br />Some other reviewers gave this book poor ratings, I read a lot of science fiction and I consider this novel to be excellent, the ratings from those other reviewers are questionable to me. For me this novel was a page turner, in fact I devoured it. Steele is very adept with including human interst in the story, with technology in the background as it should be. Character development and plot are first rate, and I will have to disagree with some of the other reviewers again as I thought the ending was very much acceptable. This would make a great science fiction action movie with a bit of cerebral stimulation thrown in! This is good stuff. Steele has the main character, Alec, suspended via cryonics after a fatal accident, and he is re-animated at some point in the future, no more details here so I won't be a spoiler, but if you read it I think you will agree with me that this is a fascinating account of what may someday actually take place, with Steele's no-holds-barred style, my kind of writer indeed, and with the recent Ted Williams cryonic suspension in the news this novel takes on new immediacy.	2002-08-22
US	52841839	R2GGXXWTYJ69G5	0071376437	519953788	PT 109: John F. Kennedy in WW II	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Classic American History!	As Daniel Schorr in the new forward to this book suggests, World War 2 brought out the best in many men, and the ones who manned the motor torpedo boats were among the bravest, setting out in small plywood boats to fight an enemy in often large ships. The ordeal that Kennedy and his crew went through after PT-109 was destroyed is a story of courage that will last the ages. It is obvious that Robert Donovan was very careful to get the facts straight as he wrote this book, it is a great war story. For me it was a page turner, written in an easy to read, flowing style. I thoroughly enjoyed reading this, a gem of a book about a small piece of American history, a fascinating account indeed. Kennedy is portrayed, and rightly so, as a compassionate and intelligent young man. <br />In a very fine afterword to this 40th anniversary edition, Duane Hove give us additional details of Kennedy's military service, and also interesting text on the history of the PT boats before, during, and after the war, and also where you can see PT boats on display today, only a few of these magnificent boats remain with us.	2002-08-11
US	52841839	R1ZK9MUE71I5JN	0820323446	131961638	River of Lakes: A Journey on Florida's St. Johns River	Books	5	6	6	N	N	In Touch With Nature	As the author states, we are all students in this great shared learning experience of life, and we can see the river not only as a conveyer of water but also as a great lesson in ecology. Very true. This is a fascinating exploration of the St. Johns river and surrounding areas in Florida, much of it still largely unspoiled wilderness. I have been to one of it's (small) tributaries , Juniper Springs, twice while canoeing, and it is a beautiful wilderness I can attest. The author, Bill Belleville, takes readers on a leisurely tour of the St. Johns river system starting in his own backyard and neighborhood, and from the marshy headwaters in an airboat, and later a kayak down river to a houseboat, and finally to the ocean, sometimes written in a dreamy poetic style, but still with lots of river lore and information. The St. Johns river is steeped in tons of history and Bill navigates it to great effect. By reading this book you can learn a lot about geology, history, plants and animals, ecology and conservation, evolution and natural selection, the beauty and value of nature, why it is important to preserve our wetlands, and along the way meet several interesting folks. <br />At the back of the volume is a list of access points on the St. John river and near it, a list of public and private agencies, and also an extensive bibliography. Finally, I want to add that the part in the book where Belleville was floating past that tavern next to the river that was blaring out the Patsy Cline song &quot;Crazy&quot; (p. 140), in light of the history associated with that area, well, I laughed so hard I almost broke a rib!	2002-08-01
US	52841839	R223MO1ZZ4K5W9	0765303698	299678942	Transcension	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Very Readable Hard Science Fiction	Damien Broderick must be loaded with lots of witticisms and just plain tons of good old common sense because this novel is loaded with these things. And when I say 'common sense', this is not the type your typical good ole boy down the street has, but is instead a 'sense' of what is intrinsically true or false, not what the average person believes. Yeah, of course someday, perhaps 100-200 years from now, the ideas portrayed in this book will be widely accepted, but not yet, but this, to many people, is what science fiction is all about, to allow gifted and intelligent writers to let us see some of the possibilities in store for our future, good and bad, in an entertaining format. This novel does very well in terms of the above, giving us a glimpse of the future, perhaps unsettling to some with their conservative world-views. <br />Broderick writes here of a medium term future where an enclave of religious believers (who live in a primitive state and distrust technology) exist in a world that is largely secular. Science has indefinitely extended life spans and for the most part eliminated the barbarity of death, and mind uploading and biostasis has been used succesfully, along with many other things. Amanda of the modern world, who is just becoming an adult, Mathewmark of the religious encalve, and Abdel-Malek, a magistrate in the modern world, are the principle characters. How they interact with each other, considering their backgrounds, makes excellent reading, as plot and character development are first rate. <br />In this novel Broderick shows us how a very advanced artificial intelligence could manipulate us, possibly for our own good, and he also includes a paradigm shift brought about by the advent of a 'singularity' of rapid technological advancement, and parts of a culture transformed almost totally, but with others clinging to the old ways. <br />TRANSCENSION is full of future possibilities, with an abundance of rational imagination and humor, had me laughing many times, it is worth 10 stars. Check out THE SPIKE by this same writer if you are interested in non-fiction speculation of a technological 'singularity'.	2002-07-05
US	52841839	R1A11MLNQEZ3UY	0812568583	621367969	The Cassini Division (Fall Revolution)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Ideas That Push The Envelope Of Possibilities!	Ellen May Ngwethu is the central character in this sequel to THE STONE CANAL, and this novel begins many years later. Ellen is a member of the Jupiter system based 'Cassini Division', their purpose is to destroy any posthuman life they encounter, primarily around the planet Jupiter. In the beginning of this novel Ellen travels to Earth as the commander of the fusion ship 'Terrible Beauty' to enlist the help of Dr. I.K. Malley, the physicist who knows more about the wormhole near Jupiter than anyone else, connecting our solar system to where New Mars is located, thousands of light years distant. The Cassini Division would like to travel through the wormhole to New Mars so they would be able to search for and destroy any posthumans found there. <br />There is debate as to whether or not the posthumans are conscious at all, and Macleod illustrates a racism here that one day may actually take place to our detriment and shame: is posthuman life conscious or just a computer program emulation of consciousness? Also discussed is the question of identity when a mind is uploaded into a computer, is the person the same as the original, or just a copy, with the original alive or dead giving added debate. This is a very complex topic and Macleod touches on it briefly as he presents to us a far ranging philosophical view of what it means to be human in this future he has spun, several hundred years from now, a future after the 'Singularity' in which science and technology has very nearly totally transformed life as we know it and how we live, great reading indeed. Plot and character development were good, and this novel is full of many interesting ideas, not necessarily original, including nano-fabrication of food and almost anything else, mind viruses, wormholes (most unlikely part of the book), anti-aging pills for eternal youth, mind back-ups in computers (with it's ensuing questions of identity), cloning, artificial people, smart suits (the book is worth reading just for this). <br />The book was a page turner for me, and I loved it's no-nonsense forward looking philosophy.	2002-06-09
US	52841839	R3QJJA67F8PRUI	0812568648	43847489	The Stone Canal: A Novel (Fall Revolution)	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Good Hard Science Fiction	This is one of those uncommon books that immediately caught my interest from page one and kept it, the characters and their relationships and development done on the 'fly' as the pages flowed, superior writing indeed. The plot switches back and forth from the year 1975 and the following years, up to the late 21st century, and later on another planet. Two friends, one a socialist and the other an anarchist (quite opposite world views actually which is thought provoking) later become rivals and later both find themselves on a planet called New Mars many decades later, and the outcome of their rivalry is decided there, the story of how they got to New Mars is quite interesting, involving some speculative science which will someday likely take place, including topics such as biostasis, mind uploading and downloading with computers, cloning, nanotechnology,etc....<br />I gave this novel four instead of five stars due to the fact that Ken Macleod included here way too much of a dose of English politics for my taste (he lives in Scotland) and as most people know, English politics are nearly incomprehensible to outsiders!!! But overall, this is cutting-edge science fiction well worth reading. Macleod's later novel THE CASSINI DIVISION extends from this novel.	2002-05-15
US	52841839	R1S7IQ7N2HUD85	0312855605	888569362	Mother of Storms	Books	3	1	4	N	N	A Mixed Bag	This novel starts out slow, with many characters being introduced, and this becomes a long, drawn out process. John Barnes along the way gives us a little science, how dangerous storms develop, and more. The premise centers around small nuclear bombs being detonated in the Artic ocean in the year 2028, releasing methane, which is a potent greenhouse gas, which in turn heats the oceans and atmosphere, and you can guess what happens after that. I am not a meteorologist so I cannot speculate as to the likelihood of these events, as dipicted in this novel, taking place in the real world. <br />John Barnes is adept at character developement and uses it to great effect here, the plot also is excellent, although at times the writing is dull and plodding, with an oftentimes unclear writing style. I found much of the book to be a tedious read, perhaps with too many characters and too many pages, it could easily be 80 pages shorter. It did become more interesting after page 150 or so, and there is much interesting speculation on what would happen if our atmosphere suddenly became warmer. <br />In addition to the topic of weather and hurricanes, Barnes gives his readers here some idea what it may someday be like subjectively to have your consciousness transferred into a computer system, of course one much in advance to what is available today, this alone is probably worth the price of admission to read this book, but again, there are vast stretches of dull reading intermixed with a few areas of suspense. Also, Barnes uses earthy subjects now and then here, so beware if you are easily offended.	2002-04-20
US	52841839	R1PFJD1C6DXA0A	0312855613	621659799	Kaleidoscope Century	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Rambling But Interesting	This novel begins with the mystery of a man's past and expands from there, gradually filling in the missing pieces as the pages are turned. The main character in this book goes through several 'transits', which is where he enters into a comatose state and emerges months later biologically younger but also has imperfect memories of previous 'lives' and has to rely on questionable notes that he had recorded earlier on a small computer. He is largely a mercenary and commits many acts of violence in the service of his employer.                                                                                                                       It must be noted here that John Barnes has wrote a very earthy novel here, if you are of an easily offended and sensitive type stay away from this volume. Barnes uses much imagination here and it contains a lot of flashbacks of the main character's previous lives, the writing style could be described as sort of meandering until up to the last parts. The main character uses several aliases, the novel in large part has him in search of an old friend. I personally found this novel a page turner, fun to read in spite of it's dark theme. <br />Barnes here is adept at character development, and as I stated already the plot jumps around a lot but it is good. There is some very speculative physics in this book so this novel is not strictly 'hard' science fiction.	2002-03-20
US	52841839	R2Q2WHSBC5U3S8	0198504667	430756648	Nature's Robots: A History of Proteins	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Sketch Of Protein Research	This volume concerns itself with the nature of proteins, from early crystallization and spectroscopy studies to the debate between whether proteins are colloids or macromolecules, and the discovery of the peptide bond. Methods of analysis are discussed in regards to their historical context, and many researchers are given due credit in their various efforts, some counter-productive. Much of the text is given to protein structure and folding and how research has illuminated these areas. There are also chapters on physiological functions and how proteins are synthesized and the discovery of DNA and it's significance, all in historical review. <br />Current protein research is briefly mentioned, and there are many references cited throughout the volume. This book is primarily targeted to chemists although anyone with an interest in protein science could read it. I personally thought this book was very informative.	2002-03-11
US	52841839	R1TCGK5OH6PV12	0151005060	370162323	The Riddle of the Compass: The Invention That Changed the World	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Compass In History	Amir Aczel presents us with the story of the origins of the compass, in as much detail as scholars have been able to discover. Aczel covers the use of the compass with ancient mariners and how these mariners had to rely on other navigational aids in the days before the compass, such as wind, plants, sounding lines, sea life, geography, currents, etc.. Also mentioned as well is the use of stars in determining latitude, longitude was much more difficult to determine due to the lack of accurate chronometers in early times. <br />Much of this volume deals with the origin of the 16 point wind rose and how it became incorporated into the modern compass, documented with events and ancient documents in China, and Italy, up to medival times and beyond. This includes discussions of the Etruscans, the cities of Amalfi and Venice, the explorer Marco Polo, all relating to the development of the compass. The second to last chapter sketches the voyages in the Great Age Of Exploration which were vastly aided by the compass, in addition to the astrolabe, a precursor of the sextant. <br />I believe that Amir Aczel made a very good case here that the compass is one of the pivitol inventions of humanity. Ask yourself this: if the compass had never been invented (which would have slowed down trade and the exchange of information and ideas) how many years of progress would have been lost? My wild guess is 50-100 years of lost progress, a lot.	2002-03-05
US	52841839	RI6FPVRCBMGIA	0743405927	740288423	Immortal Coil (Star Trek: the Next Generation)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Emotions And Immortality!	In this novel Jeffrey Lang presents us with the story of the origins of the android Data in more detail than ever before, and also includes a race of robots many millenia old that may not have the best interests of humans in mind, as well as other android surprises. Noonien Soong, Data's creator, is featured here, as well as the mysterious Dr. Vaslovik, and several other characters in addition to the crew of the Enterprise E. Lang, through Data, illustrates what it means to be an effectively immortal android and how Data's emotions are colored by this, this all being an impressive exploration in this area and seemingly a portent of our own real life technological future. I found this novel fun to read, being written in an easy to read, flowing style. Characters and plot were well executed, and I believe a general science fiction reader should enjoy this, as of course all Star Trek fans should also.	2002-03-02
US	52841839	RM1CC3GRNPI3Y	0060199067	396649281	Evolution: The Triumph of an Idea	Books	5	39	46	N	N	The Science And History Of Evolution	This is the companion volume to the seven part PBS series about evolution. It presents an excellent overview of the rise of evolutionary thought, and how evolution was at first attacked by early conservative scientists in Darwins' day, up to our own time when evolution is accepted by mainstream science, moving beyond a mere theory. Carl Zimmer along the way explains how evolution came to be and the mechanisms it uses, and he gives us many examples. Topics include the dawn of life, the age of microbes, mutation, genetics, disease, the evolution of sex, coevolution, extinctions, the Cambrian explosion of species, geology, fossils, evolution in action today, our own primate evolution, and more. <br />As a scientist myself I am already familiar with the tenants of evolution, still I found this volume fascinating with it's many examples and stories. The life of Charles Darwin is covered in detail, his voyage in the Beagle is sketched, and his personal life as well, as he struggled with his ideas of evolution in an oftentimes hostile social climate. <br />The final chapter of this book illuminates the battle the creationists today are waging against the 'fact' of evolution. As Zimmer points out their latest effort centers around an idea called Intelligent Design. The claim here is that there is an irreducible complexity to some of the molecular mechanisms of life. Carl Zimmer examines this idea over several pages and finds nothing of substance. The creationists will do nearly anything to discredit evolution, but as Zimmer points out several times, science proceeds by someone first forming a hypothesis and this hypothesis has to stand up against evidence, for and against, surviving or not on the basis of this evidence and always being subject to peer review. The theory of evolution has survived this for over 150 years in great shape, and as Zimmer says here it is accepted as fact by the vast majority of scientists, the evidence is indisputable. <br />Carl Sagan once said that we are made of \\"Star stuff\\", and Carl Zimmer here documents, with passion, how we have arisen from simple atoms and molecules over billions of years, a beautiful story indeed.	2002-02-23
US	52841839	R3GK4YD506CG4U	0553380966	199085075	The Diamond Age: Or, a Young Lady's Illustrated Primer (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	21st Century Nanotech	This novel largely centers around the life of an underprivileged little girl named Nell, whose brother steals an interactive primer from a wealthy man and gives it to her, and she uses it to improve herself over the years as she grows up. This is all mostly centered in and near mid 21st century Shanghai, there are many groups of people organized in like-minded 'phyles', one of the most prosperous being the Neo-Victorians, these people having adopted the Victorian way of life as being conductive to a proper and cultivated lifestyle. Neal Stephenson uses many characters in this novel and he is adept at character development and story telling. In the world he created here there exists much strife and poverty, even though matter compilers are able to make food and many things for free. Stephenson uses his imagination to great effect when detailing what nanotechnology (if you don't know, this is the science of manipulating individual atoms into hopefully useful devices) may be capable of doing for us about 50 years from now, the plot of the book centers around this technology. <br />I found this novel to be a very long and tedious read, toward the end I just wanted to hurry up and finish it as I got bored with it. The writing style in my opinion is not smooth and flowing, and I thought the ending was a bit odd. Nevertheless, I gave this book four stars due to the leading-edge speculations about nanotechnology and it's effects on society at large.	2002-02-09
US	52841839	RAXGNZRHSH8IC	0345424654	248388677	Bloom	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Nanotechnology: Proceed, But With Caution!	Well, I suppose with several novels depicting nanotechnology (the science of manipulating individual atoms into perhaps useful devices) in a favorable light, there needed to be a well written novel illuminating the hazards, and Wil McCarthy has done just that. <br />Imagine a nightmare world where humanity has fled the inner solar system due to nanotechnology getting out of control and multiplying, devouring everything on earth and the nearby planets, eating people, dirt, rocks, anything. Humanity has tenuous footholds in the asteroid belt, some moons of Jupiter, and Saturn's moon Titan. These humans use their Immunity to fend off the stray mycora (Microscopic machines) that would bloom and eat everything around them if not stopped. These mycora are able to evolve and reprogram themselves, and they populate interplanatary space in addition to the inner planets, their area of habitation includes only the warm inner solar system, so far. It is in this scenario that has the ship Louis Pasteur dispatched into the inner solar system to investigate the 'mycosystem' which is the area inhabited by the mycora. Most of the book is written in the first person narrative of the mission reporter and historian John Strasheim. I found the plot reasonably well executed, as were the characters. However, to my taste I thought the part about how the mycora had evolved into complex forms was a bit far fetched, and I can't say more here without being a spoiler. <br />Nanotech is something that will someday be very handy in our everyday lives, but as with most technology has it's good and bad sides. This novel examines the dark side of this technology and how we must be very careful as we proceed with it. At the end of the novel there is an interview with Wil McCarthy.	2002-02-02
US	52841839	R1P27WRHCM3B5W	0812553926	809186245	Murder in the Solid State	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Murder And Early Nano	I have never read anything by Wil McCarthy previously, and he seems to be a decent writer. This novel is a combination murder mystery and science fiction tale. David Sanger is a nanotechnology researcher (the science of manipulating the ultra small, in case you don't know) and during a trade convention becomes entangled with a murder he did not commit, and it gets intense and complicated from that point on..........no more here, no spoilers! <br />Although it was not a page turner for me (it almost was) still it is one of only a handful of science fiction novels that portray the coming era of nanotechnology, in this novel it is in only the nascent beginnings. This is hard science fiction without any fantasy whatsoever, completely to my tastes. Character and plot development were acceptable, although the ending seemed to be a trifle rushed. Also, the novel could have been a bit longer to flesh out the nanotechnology ideas more thoroughly.	2002-01-24
US	52841839	R2A5G9Q2ZEFKJN	0061054275	631459515	Eternity Road	Books	4	51	57	N	N	Kept My Interest!	This is the first novel by Jack McDevitt that I have read and I was impressed by his talent. ETERNITY ROAD  is set approximately 1000 years in the future, a plague has decimated Earth's population, and in the United States, where this novel concerns itself with, small cities have banded together and formed the 'Mississippi League'. Ruins from the 'Roadmaker' era are everywhere and the 'Roadmaker' civilization is an enigma, with many questions unanswered. It is from the League that a second expedition sets forth in search of the perhaps mythical 'Haven' where knowledge was supposedly safeguarded after the plague, as civilization unraveled. The first expedition ended in disaster, with only one person returning from the sometimes dangerous wilderness, with an atmosphere of secrecy and intrigue. One person, Chakra, had a brother who was killed on the first expedition, and she wants to find out what happened to him, as the only survivor of the first expedition is the scholar Karik, who did'nt say much about what happened, adding to the mystery. There are several other interesting characters in addition to these. <br />As per another reader here I also found similarities between this novel and A CANTICLE FOR LEIBOWITZ, a much older novel, and a fine read also. I found ETERNITY ROAD to be engrossing, I found myself reading more and more pages everyday to see what would happen, McDevitt is a master storyteller and very adept at character development and plot layout. In my view the only criticism I see here is that various machines from the Roadmakers were still operating after perhaps one thousand years, that stretches credulity indeed, I take one star off for that. As for comparing this novel to the standard of 'the end of the world as we know it' novels, which is EARTH ABIDES, the later is better, although ETERNITY ROAD is excellent nevertheless.	2002-01-21
US	52841839	RXVCQM5CEOFWB	0743412257	222353890	In the Name of Honor (Star Trek)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Star Trek As It Should Be!	This is the first novel by Dayton Ward and it is a superb accomplishment. The plot centers around a peace conference with the notorious Klingons, and also an undercover mission deep in Klingon space. The plot was very well executed, and character development was first rate. This is the kind of writing that could easily be made into a movie, it is that good.  <br />There are several references in this novel to events that have taken place in Star Trek movies of yesteryear, Dayton Ward achieved this seamlessly and to great effect. But to me the best points in this book was it's strong personal and emotional content, and philosophical musings.  Every Star Trek fan understands the relationship Kirk has with the Klingons, ever since his son David Marcus was murdered by one of them, and this relationship affects Kirk as he deals with this new crises involving Klingons and the Federation. The Klingon Empire is in a state of disarray, with honor, as the Klingons define it, at stake. It is interesting to read about how members of the Federation and of the Klingon Empire view things differently. <br />I found this to be one of the better Star Trek novels I have read, and I highly recommend it.	2002-01-10
US	52841839	R1995RMXZCNDT0	0750922214	226452959	Early Man (Sutton Pocket Histories)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Human Evolution  Primer	This synopsis of our evolutionary roots is great for someone like myself who has only a casual interest in this subject. It is of course a short volume that quickly gets to it's many points with the lastest (circa 1999) findings and research available, in an easy to read writing style. It has been a long time (decades) since I took a university anthropology course, this book brought me basically up to date. <br />Paul Jordan in this book clearly illustrates our evolutionary relationships with early primates, and onwards with proto-humans such as Australopithecines, Homo ergaster and erectus, Homo heidelbergensis, Neanderthalers, Cro-Magnon, and others, up to modern Homo sapiens sapiens. I found the new research concerning mitichondrial DNA fascinating. Jordan also discusses the types of artifacts, including tools and weapons, used by early man, and in addition covers man as the social animal and the invention of religion and art, and many other of the activities of early man, including hunting, dwellings, fire use, and agriculture. <br />This is a book that is firmly based in reality but I realize does conflict with the world-views of most people, as a result these types of books tend to be not read widely, and that is a shame as this volume is very informative. I would have given this book five stars instead of four, but this book is in terrible need of some illustrations, there are none.	2002-01-03
US	52841839	R1C18P2BPHKS7I	157566691X	937302518	Christmas Cookie Murder (Lucy Stone Mysteries, No. 5)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	A pleasing Change Of Pace!	This was an easy, fun read for me, I tend to read very serious books ( my last was HUBBERT'S PEAK: THE IMPENDING WORLD OIL SHORTAGE) so I found this novel very refreshing. CHRISTMAS COOKIE MURDER is perhaps the second murder mystery I ever recall reading. I thought the story line and characterization were excellent, and I see that Leslie Meier has used the character Lucy Stone five times previously, obviously a well developed character and fine tuned indeed. The writing style used here is homey, very relaxed.   <br />As a man I enjoyed reading of the bickering a group of women are capable of, with their petty squabbles and jealousies, I suspect that Leslie Meier may have a keen insight into women's minds that few men do. Also, much of the book centers around Christmas and families and normal everyday events, and of course a perplexing murder, all told I found this a charming novel, definitely worth reading.	2001-12-29
US	52841839	R11CLVTSHAJSGD	0691090866	784732871	Hubbert's Peak: The Impending World Oil Shortage	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Informative And Well Written	Kenneth Deffeyes is a former Shell oil geologist and also a former Princeton University professor (now emeritus) so he brings a lot of expertise to the subject of the world oil supply, and at which point supply can't keep pace with demand. He cites often the famous 1956 prediction in which another Shell geologist, a M. King Hubbert, who in a paper said oil production in the United States would peak in the early 1970's, and it sure did peak, in the year 1970, and has been declining ever since. Hubbert used some statistical tools in his analysis, and for this new analysis of the world oil production peak Deffeyes draws on the work of the late Hubbert and with the addition of more up to date statistical tools. Deffeyes says that we have discovered most of the oil that is in the ground, and that drilling deeper will yield only natural gas, the reason for this is fascinating. He also says that it takes about 10 years to bring a new oil field into production, so the expected shortfall of the supply of oil Deffeyes predicts somewhere between the years 2004 and 2009 is inevitable. He also says no major oil fields have been discovered in many years and it is unlikely that another Middle East sized oil field still remains undiscovered, to save us from a bidding war for the remaining oil. The year 2009, according to Deffeyes, is the last possible year that the peak in world oil production will occur. <br />This book is full of wisdom and much humor, it is not a stodgy old book, it was a page turner for me. Deffeyes in one chapter says we have paid too much attention to the 'dot com' companies and how many people think our economy can run well by just selling software, etc, back and forth among ourselves, and that we should pay more attention to fundamental activities which are agriculture, mining, ranching, forestry, fisheries, and petroleum. This book is also very informative from a geological standpoint, how oil is trapped in rock layers and how it is drilled for production.Deffeyes says fossil fuels are in a sense a one time gift of nature and if we are wise this fuel will get us to the age of renewable energy. The Green River oil shale formation in the western United States is mentioned in this volume, Deffeyes states that it is roughly equal to all of the world's conventional oil, but at the present price of a barrel of crude oil it is not economical to use at this juncture. Natural gas is also mentioned and may be used more extensively in the future, as well as geothermal energy and a few others. He also says we need to get over our phobia with nuclear energy, I agree with that. <br />But as for the basic prediction here of a permanent oil shortage somewhere between 2004 and 2009, Deffeyes does mention that a worldwide recession could affect the time of the shortage, and we are in a worldwide recession as I type this. In addition, I saw on the news that the Russians are ramping up their oil production and this could also affect the year of the shortfall, but nevertheless whether the shortfall occurs in 2004 or 2009, or 2015, it does appear that a shortfall is coming and we should be preparing for it, at least on an individual basis if our governments aren't doing much.	2001-12-15
US	52841839	R800C1C7KW97O	055357549X	662074373	Holy Fire (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Living Longer Better!	Imagine yourself, as a very old person, suddenly made very young again. Would you want your old desires and passions back, if they were forced upon you? Most would say yes, and Bruce Sterling writes a wonderful and enlightening tale centering around a woman named Mia and how human desires and values change as we grow older and how our basic drives can be turned upside down if we became young again. Older people sometimes get set in established behavioral patterns and Sterling gives thought to this in addition to possible societal views and monetary structures that may accompany vastly extended life spans. <br />Sterling writes of a world in the process of achieving the goal of extending human life spans indefinitely, set late in the 21st century. Sterling uses the term 'posthuman' often in this novel, I believe he should have used the term 'transhuman' as this term more accurately describes the characters in this novel. As I understand it, a posthuman is one who has access to very advanced medical care and his/her body is effectively immortal, or as much as is practical or theoretically possible, and yes, I am probably splitting hairs here. But in fact, one could argue we have transhuman medical care in existence already, with the advent of artificial hearts, etc.. <br />This novel is wrote in an easy to read, flowing style, a pleasure to read, much of the plot had the character Mia living a wandering and aimless lifestyle, but the story was well executed. I found it a cute story, much human interest, with humor mixed in. It's premise of a society transformed by long life spans could be a portent of things to come, and how ultimately we may be able to use our science to bootstrap ourselves out of our own mortality.	2001-12-13
US	52841839	R1T9HV9Y64RSU7	0968750206	464023192	As It Is On Mars	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Zen And The Art Of Martian Survival	This novel begins with a Senate hearing, saving perhaps two hundred pages of text and effectively getting this novel off to a rolling start at an early stage. After this hearing and some miscellaneous items the novel begins in earnest with the Martian explorers having to deal with a disaster on Mars. I won't reveal more here so I won't be a spoiler, but at times it was to me a page turner, an emotional roller coaster. <br />Like many science fiction novels, this one tends to be philosophical. Thomas Cronin skillfully weaves the philosophy of Zen into the storyline. Zen is mysterious to most people, including myself before I read this book, but in reality it is a fascinating subject. I also loved the rational world view of Denise, the physician and geneticist. <br />Cronin captures much of the beauty and mystery that the planet Mars is to us. He also includes a lot of the science that we know about Mars, without having a preaching quality to it, so you can learn a lot by reading this book. Much of the writing style Cronin uses here is a narative, interspersed with conversations between characters, to great effect. I found the plot well developed and plausible, and the characters rich and believable. <br />I have read several Mars Novels over the past few years, I have to state that I enjoyed this one as much as any of the others, and that is saying a lot for this relatively unknown author. It was a rather lengthy read but worth it.	2001-12-02
US	52841839	R5MMNAEHM4ABW	1568581815	10013433	Visions of Spaceflight: Images from the Ordway Collection	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Excellent Historical Collection	All of the paintings in this volume are dated, the paintings are for the most part not accurate as we see spaceflight today, but their historical value is immense. For example, early paintings of the lunar surface often exhibit sharp peaks on mountains, of course we now know eons of cosmic bombardment smoothly rounded most features. Text at the beginning of this book explain how these paintings were collected over many years, they date from before the 1600's to the 1950's, a fascinating story in itself, and there is also a foreword by Arthur C. Clarke. Each painting is accompanied by a caption in this large-format book. <br />From our perspective today many of these paintings look very quaint, though when they were first published they must have appeared very futuristic. Buy this book for it's historical and art value, not for scientific accuracy.	2001-11-26
US	52841839	R2KAPZHRE6L1K4	157715066X	505642529	Cats & Kittens: Complete Identifier	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Pleasing And Informative	This volume discusses more than 180 cat breeds from around the world, some not widely known. Usually a page or so is devoted to each breed and includes a brief history of the breed, coloring, build, and temperament. The photographs are clear and well done, one for each breed is included. Other topics also covered in this book include a section on cats in history, identifying cats, behaviour, caring for your cat, breeding, and showing. I thought this volume was of high quality and of a reasonably sized format.	2001-11-23
US	52841839	R1TYWLXEBP6IMN	0811708039	734843296	Home Book of Smoke Cooking Meat, Fish & Game	Books	4	30	30	N	N	Useful Smoking Advice	This book discusses smokers you can build, or purchase instead, and also gives tips on how to run your smoker for optimum results. Various fuels to use in smokers are mentioned as well. There is also a chapter on brines and seasonings, and several chapters on how to smoke different foods, including turkey, cheese, sausage, fish, beef, nuts, wild game, and much more. Another book you may find of interest is THE QUICK AND EASY ART OF SMOKING FOOD by Chris Dubbs and Dave Heberle.	2001-11-19
US	52841839	RJWOQQ96ZYARM	1855326345	907269145	German Jet Aces of World War 2 (Osprey Aircraft of the Aces No 17)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Excellent History Of A Pioneering Effort	Hugh Morgan and John Weal in this volume primarily write of the people and aircraft in Germany's use of the Me 262 jet fighter during World War 2. There are many great black and white photographs from that era contained here, as well as lots of text about the history of the Me 262. Also, there are some color line drawings included of actual aircraft with their flight colors and a bit about the history of each. There is also a short appendice listing Luftwaffe jet aces and jet fighter units. In addition, the authors discuss the rocket powered Me 163 with photographs and it's history as well, and a few other jet powered German aircraft are briefly covered. I found this to be a fascinating read about very advanced aircraft for their time, sometimes misused by the Luftwaffe.	2001-11-17
US	52841839	RNIN1EUUV4UNF	0312876637	224165151	The Folk of the Fringe	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Excellent Collection Of Interrelated Short Stories	This novel is actually five short stories, all interconnected to some extent. Orson Scott Card writes of a time in the near future after a few nuclear weapons fell on the United States and biological warfare eliminated most of what remained. Civilization has largely collapsed, anarchy rules in most places, personal survival is the name of the game. Card here writes in a very intense and personal way, he puts you directly into the minds of the major characters. The imagery he depicts is very graphic and rich in detail, with all five stories weaving together into a very fine plot, a post-apocalypse America well done. I won't give away any of the story here other than to state that as I read this book I found myself pulling for the people to succeed! <br />I would have easily given this novel five stars instead of four, four was given due to the fantasy that was used in the last story. When it comes to novels I do prefer 'hard' fiction, where ideas and events portrayed could actually take place in the real world, but don't let this stop you from reading this, as this criticism is minor in regards to the otherwise great novel this is, to be savored and enjoyed immensely. This is the first Orson Scott Card novel I have read and I was impressed by his talent.	2001-11-12
US	52841839	R18M67TJDFRDKD	0764312030	732950197	Dfs 228	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Sailplane That Was Ahead Of it's Time	David Myhra gives us the history here of the Nazi DFS 228 sailplane that was concieved in the 1930's, and was not used to any great extent as a spy plane in World War 2 as the end of the war came. This aircraft was carried aloft piggyback fashion on top of a Do 217 K3 two engine carrier. The single pilot then lit the rocket engine to enable flights to altitudes as high as perhaps 100,000 feet, well above the service ceilings of that eras fighters and enemy flak. The DFS 228 is a little known aircraft, an amazing technological achievement. This book contains many photographs and drawings and most of the text is interviews Myhra has had with the designers of this aircraft, mostly from the 1980's. One page gives the specifications for the DFS 228, fascinating indeed. Various rocket engines from this time are also discussed. <br />Several other aircraft also not widely known are briefy mentioned here as well, such as the DFS 346 V1 which was a swept wing rocket powered aircraft built to exceed the speed of sound, it was never finished by the DFS and fell into the hands of the Soviets after the war. They eventually flew it, read the story here about that. What struck me most about this book was all the talented engineers who created these great machines in a time of war, just imagine a world without wars and how much we could advance as a species as a result!	2001-11-08
US	52841839	R3F7AAIKSN7CT3	0441008593	332922332	First Landing	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Excellent Novel, Just The Right Length!	This is great stuff, Zubrin is one cool dude and writes fiction with the best of them. The story entranced me and drew me in and I could not stop myself from reading. If you wonder how it may be like to explore and survive on the planet Mars in the first expedition (circa 2011) read this book, I bet when we finally reach Mars with a human crew it will be very much as depicted by Zubrin here in this novel. <br />The mission Zubrin describes here is beset with many technical hurdles, some may be from sabotage, and political intrigue exists as well. Mars is a beautiful planet in it's own unique way and Zubrin conveys with success that beauty and wonder to the reader. I thought the resourcefulness of the crew, consisting of five members, was amazing, and the trip to the bottom of the Valley Of The Mariners was very well done. Character development was superb, I loved Rebecca, the biologist. Their ordeal is realistically put forth by Zubrin, again it was a page turner for me. This novel portrays our future exploration of Mars in the grandest sense, a joy to read, expertly written, and should be read by all science fiction fans and others as well. <br />At the end of this novel resides a short appendix where Zubrin details the Mars Direct plan, interesting indeed. In fact, Zubrin believes spacefaring countries could send humans to Mars within a decade or so, if support developed, and we could become a two planet species. Dr. Zubrin is an astronautical engineer and has written two non-fiction space related books, Entering Space, and The Case For Mars, also well worth reading	2001-10-31
US	52841839	RE7EWYHR8KWRM	0312872011	341433390	Mars Crossing	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A Captivating Trek Across Mars	In this near term science fiction novel, circa 2028, Geoffrey Landis gives us an exciting long distance trek across the surface of the planet Mars in a desperate attempt to save themselves after a major equipment malfunction puts them in deadly peril. Two previous Martian missions have both failed. This is an exciting adventure and kept me turning the pages. The plot and character development were excellent, with several flashbacks that brought out the backgrounds and personalities of the astronauts in meticulous detail without becoming monotonous. In some science fiction novels an author sometimes creates too many characters, but here Landis gets it just right. There are many chapters, all very short. Landis is a NASA engineer, so the technical aspects of this novel are superb, and as in all great science fiction the technology takes on a supporting role to the story and the lives of the people involved. This is a well written novel, earthy at times, not stodgy, a joy to read, a brilliant literary work. And you may even learn a little about the real planet Mars, after all, that is what science fiction is all about, a look at future possibilities in an entertaining way, and there is also a surprise ending.	2001-10-27
US	52841839	R1RVW8S2K843BR	1896522815	418410460	Rocket And Space Corporation Energia: Apogee Books Space Series 17	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The Soviet Legacy Of Spaceflight	This is a great book with many excellent colour and black and white photos of the Soviet space program, from it's infancy up to the Mir Space station. Korolev was the Soviet chief of spaceflight and master planner back in the 1960's when the Soviets were trying to beat us to the moon, he was truly a visionary man and a credit to the Russians. The volume here begins with a few pages of text and then continues with page after page of an amazing photo history of the Soviet space program, very well done. What I especially found interesting was the photographs of their giant Saturn 5 class N booster, designed to take cosmonauts to the lunar surface, it was an awesome moon-rocket, a shame really that it was not successful. Everything in Soviet manned space is covered here, there are even pictures and drawings of the never used manned lunar lander. This is a gem of a book, and very reasonably priced.	2001-10-23
US	52841839	R387JUNZXXWG0J	0262082950	945012739	Tomorrow's Energy: Hydrogen, Fuel Cells, and the Prospects for a Cleaner Planet	Books	4	72	74	N	N	A Good Introduction To Hydrogen	Peter Hoffmann is the editor and publisher of &quot;The Hydrogen &amp; Fuel Cell Letter&quot;, and this book focuses on the myriad uses of fuel cells, in great detail. But other uses of hydrogen are covered to some extent also. Topics discussed are automotive, utility, food production, home heating, hydrogen production, and many others. Hoffman notes in this volume time and again that hydrogen is an energy carrier, like electricity, and not an energy source, so it must be produced via energy sources such as coal, wind, solar, and nuclear, among others. Hoffmann does a very good job in this area, and the generation of greenhouse gasses is a central theme of this book, basically how we can generate hydrogen with little or no carbon dioxide buildup. As you may know, the combustion of hydrogen with oxygen only produces water.  Safety of hydrogen use is another area extensively covered. The book begins with Hoffmann giving a history of hydrogen use and research over the past 200 years or so, right up to the present time, politics having an effect on our energy future also, of course. Senator Tom Harkin gives readers a very good foreward to the book. <br />One area of great interest to me that was mentioned in this book is the possibility of using atomic hydrogen (this is hydrogen in it's disassociated state, not the molecular hydrogen) as rocket fuel, as Hoffmann says, a specific impulse of over 1000 seconds may be achieved, well above today's rocket engines, if it can be safely stabilized. I wish this topic was covered better than the brief sketch Hoffmann gave it. <br />The final chapter of the book attempts to extrapolate the future use of hydrogen. Various experts are quoted by Hoffmann as to what we may expect in the decades ahead with regards to hydrogen use. Hoffmann does himself say that the existing energy infrastructure may be difficult to replace due to the economic inertia of change, and many decades may be required, in the United States it's vast coal reserves may preclude widespread hydrogen use idefinitely. Overall, the volume is a good introduction to energy if sometimes a little short on the science. At the back of the book there are extensive notes with references to further reading for those desiring to do so.	2001-10-19
US	52841839	RUS8F4RANWR42	038077528X	338336570	Red Dust	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Interesting, But Dull At Times	Red Dust is a novel of a terraformed Mars set about 600 years into the future. A young man named Lee traverses Mars in an adventure of intrigue, surrounded by events that nearly overwhelm him. A young woman drops from space in a small pod to the surface of Mars carrying special viruses which are really nanotech devices, and she infects Lee with them, starting a chain of events beyond Lee's control and immediate understanding. The plot is complicated with many political groups trying to gain control, with their own agendas....sounds familiar, does'nt it! The novel incorporates a couple of cultural icons from our time, it is interesting how they are revered and distorted in this far flung future. <br />This novel was copyrighted in 1993 so it is one of the earlier novels to use nantechnology as an integral part of the story. Paul McAuley also portrays an artificial reality in which many people choose to die and go to. McAuley writes, it appears to me, that man still struggles with himself, even 600 years into the future, that prophecy is almost sure to come true as we seem to have an innate ability and desire to fight among ourselves. <br />McAuley in this novel sometimes writes in a vague and discordant manner, which makes reading a bit difficult at times, and a reader has to pay attention to a lot of details to keep proper track of the plot. Also, I personally feel the novel could have been 30-40 pages shorter, as there are long dull stretches here and there.	2001-09-25
US	52841839	R3I0C0SHJGENCC	0668047836	536544903	Hunting With the Microscope	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Very Informative!	This book has tons of information on how to use the microscope, from beginners to more advanced users. I use this volume as microscopy is a hobby of mine, and also I use our microscope to teach my young children about the world of the small. In the pages of this book you can learn about plants, molds, yeast, bacteria, animal cells, microscopic pond life, how to prepare slides, preparation of cultures, insect life, and this list could go on, it makes science fun for the family. This book is very easy to understand, yet has very detailed information on a variety of subjects, with many drawings and photographs.	2001-09-22
US	52841839	R3U3TAVEVYEGHT	0609603205	480663979	Getaways: Carefree Retreats for All Seasons	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Ton Of Great Decorating And Design Ideas!	I saw this book in an expensive little shop in Gatlinburg, Tennessee last August, and later bought it cheaper over the internet. After reading several negative reviews here, and knowing the quality of this volume, I can't understand why people would not love this book. Contrary to what two reviewers state here, it is not a small volume and the photographs are extremely well done. They range from a picturesque dock out over a body of water to sunrooms, bedrooms, libraries, old desks, etc, with associated text, and most here can be done by people with any decent and modest budget. <br />I just wish I had this book last year when we had a house built, but it is useful now anyway. It is a treasure worthy of more than five stars.	2001-09-16
US	52841839	R1TYBEZBBIGTMM	0399148019	723229047	The Absence of Nectar	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A Wild Ride!	I loved this novel. Kathy Hepinstall does an excellent job of weaving minute details of the lives of two children, Alice, eleven years old, and brother Boone, 14 years old, into an exciting tale of suspense and danger. The story is told from the point of view of Alice who sees evil in Simon, who courts their divorced mother, from the time of first meeting him. Simon is a despicable creep, with a mysterious past and a seemingly strange agenda in the present time. <br />I found this novel fascinating and hard to put down, the more I read the more I wanted to read to find out what happens. The story is unpredictable and will leave you guessing wildly as to the turn of events. This is Kathy Hepinstall's second novel, she is definitely a writer to watch in the future.	2001-09-12
US	52841839	R3R3HKDSVA0I1P	0306810484	413738524	The Dream Of Spaceflight: Essays On The Near Edge Of Infinity	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Book Of Visionary Scope	I have been a space buff ever since I got my first telescope for Christmas, 1968, and got to use it on Christmas eve 1968 and looked at the crater filled moon as Apollo 8 orbited the moon, what magic, a time long gone. So I can relate to Wyn Wachhorst as he narrates this journey through our coming of age in the cosmos, from Kepler, Goddard, and others, to the present, always writing in symbolic and poetic style, neat to say the least. <br />I particularly loved the chapter &quot;Abandon In Place&quot;, anyone well versed in space lore will instantly know what that term means, but in this chapter Wachhorst laments in great detail the lack of vision people in our society exhibit, and it's causes. Ask yourself this: how many people do you know, personally, that appreciate anything beyond normal everyday occurances, beyond the mundane, beyond the simple utility of everyday life and what is on television tonight, and if you are like me you will be able to think of perhaps one or two people only. This is a topic that Wachhorst discusses extensively and he writes that we need to have a sense of wonder, and the need to explore, and the craving for personal transcendence at the leading edge of evolution, in order to thrive as a species. <br />In this book you will read about the lives of several visionary people, and I think the tribute to Carl Sagan was the best anyone could ever write about another person. This volume is a jewel that is rarely encountered in the literary world, a joy to read.	2001-09-06
US	52841839	R2JEVRY3KSFYL4	0465012981	217143369	The Computers Of Star Trek	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Learn About Computers The Fun Way	This is a nice overview of computing technology, where we began, where we are now, and where we may be down the road. The comparisons to Star Trek technology was interesting to me as an old Star Trek fan. The authors point out very clearly that the computers of Star Trek have evolved through the decades, and various series, as our knowledge and capabilities in the real world have grown over the years, and we are about to catch up to the talking and reasoning computers portrayed in the original series, perhaps in a handful more years. Later Star Trek series used more advanced computers, even holodecks, these systems will take longer to realize in the real world (physical laws allowing), however, as Gresh and Weinberg explain, most of it won't take until the 24th century to take place. In this book you can learn a lot about computers and computing without becoming bored, and no, you will not be an expert in the field or anything like that, but you will find out that things are advancing rapidly right now. Some of the computer technology shown in the four Star Trek series is already out of date, especially in the original series where those computers resemble large mainframe 1st or second generation computers using vacuum tubes or discrete transistors, and this is a reflection of when the various series were made, from the 1960's to the present. The authors also note that Star Trek is poor at using nanotechnology in the episodes, and how, Gresh and Weinberg explain, microscopic helpers will actually pervade our bodies and keep us healthy and heal wounds and allow us to communicate with others much faster. I did find the chapter on the android Data interesting, the authors believe that something like Data should be possible in the distant future, but the authors explain that much of the computing technology of Star Trek simply won't happen as envisioned in the various series, and that Star Trek is mostly about a projection of our culture three hundred years into the future. But as Spock might say, &quot;fascinating reading&quot;. Indeed!	2001-09-02
US	52841839	R22U871F2R8R0K	0517207346	373106638	How to Live with a Neurotic Cat	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Cat-Fest Of Laughs!	Anyone who likes funny things and cats will love this book. It is full of little stories and one liners and cartoons about cats and what they do, all amusing. Everything is done in black and white. My daughter, 10 years old, also found this book full of laughs. The only problem I had with this volume is that the binding along the spine became separated, but I recommend it anyway.	2001-08-29
US	52841839	R1QR74RZ8NHOD6	076530080X	219188246	The Secret of Life	Books	5	1	1	N	N	First Class Science And Exploration	This near term hard science fiction novel covers a lot of territory, the politics of science being one of them, Paul McAuley is a scientist so he illuminates some of the in-fighting that occasionally occurs in scientific research. I thought the story was very well executed, and characterization was superb. The plot concerns a microorganism that is spreading in the Pacific ocean and threatening the food chain, and may have part or all of it's origin on the planet Mars. Dr. Mariella Anders, a microbiologist, does her part to investigate, and is also sent to Mars for further investigations, with a greedy corporation seeking to monopolize the research. Mariella is also a free spirit, delighting in the pleasures of living, well done, and not another puritanical novel here! Paul McAuley throws in some dead accurate social commentary in this novel also, and you can even learn a bit about biology in addition. But beware, this is not a shoot-em-up space opera, it is very cerebral and may cause a reader to actually think, but it still has it's share of action and suspense, and the trek across the surface of Mars is a masterpiece.  <br />I found this novel to be very readable, it drew me in as I read more and more each day to get to the end to see what happens, and it is not far-out as some science fiction is today that lose touch with reality. This novel has as it's centerpiece a great biological mystery that I found fascinating, wrote in an easy to read, flowing style.	2001-08-19
US	52841839	R1HK1SHVGHLGC4	0441008356	824019804	Revelation Space	Books	4	7	8	N	N	An Epic Of Grand Scope	It is about 500 years in the future, humanity has spread out to the stars using relativistic starships. An archaeological dig on the distant planet Resurgam has uncovered evidence of a long dead race called the Amarantin, and what happened to them may affect the future of the human race. Dr. Dan Sylveste is in charge of the excavation, his father Calvin exists only as an electronic personality, and there is political intrigue on the planet as well. The ancient starship 'Nostalgia For Infinity' is involved with all of this also, with it's captain strangely infected with the 'melding plague', virtually unstoppable. And there is Ana Khouri, a woman who is sent to murder Dr. Sylveste, by a mysterious lady. Then there is the 'Shroud', an alien object in deep space that means nearly certain death for humans who approach it, but a few do anyway. This hard science fiction novel includes suspended animation of starship crews, robots, advanced artificial intelligence, nanotechnology, immortality, cybernetic implants, electronic personalities, mysterious aliens that are believable, and the list could go on. <br />Alastair Reynolds is a first time author but he writes like he already has wrote a hundred novels, some people are just natural writers. He is also a scientist and that is very evident in this book. This novel stretches the envelope on what is possible without violating known physics. Cutting edge science fiction like this is hard to find, and this is a 'must read' for serious science fiction readers. I found this novel to be great reading, although it was a bit long, it could have been 50-70 pages shorter, that is why I did'nt give it five stars.	2001-08-08
US	52841839	R1KQVBS7S2WW6L	0832904627	280464121	Quick and Easy Art of Smoking Food: Updated for the 90's	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Insightful Smoking Advice!	This book contains a ton of information. Included are discussions on various methods of smoking, and different fuels that can be used, did you know that dried corncobs may be used? There are chapters on cures and marinades, if you like doing that, and more chapters on smoking a lot of different types of food, ranging from wild game, poultry, sausage, seafood, steaks, nuts and cheese, and more. Additional chapters cover butchering, equipment and materials, and also some recipes are found in an appendix, and another appendix has information on spices and herbs. A very informative book this is.	2001-08-05
US	52841839	R292S9LRP9ATJS	0911977058	37260483	Florida's Fabulous Seashells: And Other Seashore Life	Books	5	5	7	N	N	An Indispensable Guide	Years ago, on vacation in Florida, we stopped for a night in a motel by a rocky beach at Cedar Key, a bit north of Tampa. After dark my wife and I walked over to the beach and we heard a wierd snapping and crackling sound. We looked down with our flashlight and saw a whole herd of small crabs that were slowly on the move, thousands of them!  Had no idea what they were or what they were doing. Later we went back to the motel, but we never forgot what we  saw, it was so amazing. Many years later a person who lived all their life in Florida told us they were Fiddler Crabs. Just recently, when I got this book I looked them up, and it had a complete description of them, their habits, and many great pictures. <br />This large oversized volume includes a wealth of information on shells and animal life likely to be encountered on Florida shores. It is very informative with excellent color photographs, and the price is right. I just wish I had it years ago!	2001-07-29
US	52841839	R39M6KH5JT0FDQ	0399147462	58080034	Never Dream of Dying	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Ultimate Bond!	This novel contains the classic sensuous Bond of old, portrayed in a very realistic and believable style. There are no deep philosophical issues here, just action and suspense in an easy fun read. As in the Bond movies there are the usual exotic settings, Benson is good at this and uses them to great effect. The villains are well done and the story is superb. The ending was excellent, particularly the last two paragraphs.	2001-07-28
US	52841839	R7900DZ0YRUIP	0672517655	588485595	The old fashioned homemade ice cream cookbook,	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Practical Guide!	This book covers, in a very readable and straightforward way, how to make great ice cream. I have been using this book for many years, it covers a short history of ice cream and contains many useful recipes for making many different kinds, from old standards to more exotic mixtures, dozens of recipes are included here. Also, the tips for using your ice cream freezer are excellent. My favorite recipe is the Philadelphia vanilla ice cream using lots of heavy whipping cream, mabe this will shorten my life but at least I will die happy.	2001-07-25
US	52841839	R2SN6NDS3ODEPM	0812545990	348366267	Starfarers	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A Long Read---Patience Required!	I have read several novels that introduce many characters that are on a long intersteller voyage, some do well and you get to know the characters. ENCOUNTER WITH TIBER by Buzz Aldrin and John Barnes did a great job with this but I can't say the same for STARFARERS. This novel has so many characters that they are nearly impossible to keep track of and which person did this or that, much of it just became an unintellible mass. <br />Is there anything of redeeming quality in this novel? Yes, it gives a very good, even excellent story, of man's contact with alien species, and depicts science and technology very knowledgeably, so it seems. Character development is great, but as before too many characters for my taste. It is a long novel and takes patience to read.	2001-07-19
US	52841839	R2KG9SRJ1X4R95	038072748X	547758062	1939: Lost World of Fair	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Just like being there!	I'm one of those people who has never been to New York City, though I would love to see it. This book wonderfully transports you to that city in the years of 1939-1940 and to that World's Fair. It was a time that people thought of science and technology as something that had the power to transform their lives in a positive manner, unlike the misplaced cynicism encountered today, even though we have now realized many of the dreams of that long ago fair, and many more. <br />David Gelernter takes you on a tour of that fair, including the various national and corporate exibits and pavilions, many were absolutely amazing, even by today's standards. Several are described in intricate detail, and being in the 1930's electro-mechanical control systems were the rule, some being very complex. Gelernter also portrays some typical hypothetical people visiting the fair and what they did. How people dressed back then, and also the underlying societal feelings, are covered, the war in Europe being on everyones mind. <br />This is a very well written and comprehensive account of this most famous of fairs, I immensely enjoyed it, and Gelernter covers that last few hours of the Fair with poignancy as it closed in 1940. This account makes me wish I could travel back in time and see it myself, a wistful longing not to be.	2001-07-16
US	52841839	RSRHQ2RKN1FAV	1570981922	459718637	Cats As Cats Can	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Amusing Cats	This book is full of imaginative, mostly abstract drawings, of cats, most of them funny and a little strange and off-beat. The drawings, for the most part in colour, do not include any words, the artworks speak for themselves. My young daughter and son thought they were funny, as I did. At the end of this large sized volume are a few words by the author describing some of the antics of cats he has responsibility for, notice I did not say he actually owns them, I'm not sure anyone truly owns a cat!	2001-06-24
US	52841839	R35UG4OJQ0TVQE	0345423496	284653366	3001: The Final Odyssey	Books	4	37	40	N	N	Vintage Clarke!	This novel begins when Frank Poole, the Discovery astronaut from the novel 2001, and who was killed bt HAL on the first mission to Jupiter, is found by a deep space crew, frozen. He is re-animated by advanced technology, in the year 3001, so all of his previous friends and acquaintances are long dead, dust forever. Poole is able to explore much of the human occupied solar system and later has contact with the mysterious black monolith on Europa, and also with what used to be Dave Bowman and HAL from 2001. This is the novel that concludes the four volume series that began with 2001 back in 1968. <br />Clarke includes a lot of foreseeable future technology in this book, including nano-assembly of a person from information stored in a memory device to braincaps that connects a person directly to the global information network and even allows a person to recieve in minutes knowledge that now takes years of study. 3001 is a very descriptive novel, Clarke has a lot to say about possible life and technology as it may exist in a thousand years, it seems he does an amazing job, but no one can tell for certain until the year 3001 is here, in the past just predicting things only 10-20 years in the future has been very difficult indeed. <br />3001 contains thoroughly modern thinking, typical of Clarke, and I am pleased that he wrote it himself without relying on a co-author. I also enjoyed the several pages of notes Clarke has at the end of the book. The major criticism I have for this novel is that the human relationships are only briefly sketched and could have been in more detail. All told though, a fun and easy read.	2001-06-22
US	52841839	R9H2CTDIIJFSY	0553278746	957987582	The Postman	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Post Apocalyptic Struggle	I have never before read a David Brin novel, others here say this is not his best, but I found this novel a very good read. This book begins approximately sixteen years after an NBC war (for those who don't know, that stands for nuclear, biological, chemical) that was called the doomwar by those who lived through it. That war nearly destroyed the United States as a civilized society, but soon after that war survivalists plundered and destroyed most of what little civilization remained. Gordon, the primary character, traveled from one small isolated village to another for sixteen years after the Doomwar and at one point was robbed of most of his meager possessions. Soon he found a United States Postman's uniform and badge, and from there he impersonated a postman from a long dead government, a scam that had unusual consequences to say the least and created a very interesting story, with danger all around. <br />This novel is fast paced and always the human nature side of the story is not neglected, and womens' view of things is well discussed, and as David Brin seems to say in this novel, how can us guys really know what a women thinks, down deep, all the time?  This book is rich in descriptive detail without overdoing it. I found this book very easy to read, the words seemed to flow off the pages, well written.	2001-06-15
US	52841839	R3QJMPIH3FPVD0	0595157734	177144878	Zeppelins of World War I	Books	5	19	21	N	N	World War 1 Arms Race!	This book tells the little known story (today) of the use of Zeppelins, which contain an internal frame and are also called dirigibles, by Germany to bomb London at night. Wilbur Cross leads you through the developement of the Zeppelins, and their use in the war. Many missions, with flotilas of dirigibles each hundreds of feet long, are described in minute detail. Several German officers are portrayed, most were gallant and intelligent, many were killed, another illustration of the ultimate waste of war. <br />Cross also writes of the effort of England to upgrade weapons, mostly biplanes and improved ordnance, to destroy the Zeppelins, and Germanys' attempt to upgrade the effectiveness of their Zeppelins. Terrorizing the populace of London was one result of the Zeppelin bombing, that is covered along with damage caused by the Zeppelins and their effect on the outcome of the war. Finally, continued postwar developement of the Zeppelin is covered to some extent. This was a very enjoyable and readable account for me.	2001-06-11
US	52841839	R1K59OHY5C25YL	0449213013	750649906	Earth Abides	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Perennial Classic	This is the 'end of the world as we know it' novel that all others are compared to. Even though it was written in the 1940's (copyright 1949) it is timeless, not aged at all, a great literary work.<br />It all starts when the main character, Ish, is bitten by a rattlesnake and laid up in a remote cabin, unconscious for an extended period of time, while, unknown to him, a plague destroys over 99% of the population. There begins a superb story of the trials and adventures of one man, and eventually a small group of people, as they battle nature and themselves, and attempt to re-establish civilization. This is one of those rare novels where characterization and plot and setting all mesh together into one beautifully written yarn, that after reading it, you will never forget it, it is that powerful. If there ever existed the proverbial page turner, this is it. Of course, being written in the 1940's no mention is made of personal computers, CD players, and the like, but if civilization was gone these most likely would be of little use anyway. <br />The philosophy and human interest angles contained in this book are well done. The scenes and descriptions of the demise of civilization and peoples' reactions to it, depicted by Stewart, seem very realistic. Your heart will be with the characters of this book when you read it.	2001-06-07
US	52841839	R38FR5VE28WG15	1569800030	256860045	The Natural Depravity of Mankind: Observations on the Human Condition	Books	4	27	33	N	N	Fascinating Reading!	In this volume, really just a long essay, Lundberg gives many examples of human depravity, mostly examples from the 20th century. According to Lundberg depravity is defined as individuals putting their personal interests ahead of the law and the common good will. But is it really depravity, as we evolved from lower forms of life by being largely selfish, perhaps only giving some aid to relatives and friends? Calling us depraved is an inaccuracy, as there is no ultimate right or wrong about our behavior, it is just how we are, part of the natural order that the human animal is part of, even though this may be offensive to some people.<br />The issue of depravity aside, this book is full of the misdeeds of polititians, religious persons, industry leaders, and the United States is not exempt by any means. This volume was very readable and hard to put down at times.<br />Lundberg states that &quot;Men, left to their own devices, simply are not peaceful animals and never were.&quot; Another quote, &quot;The masters of propaganda have shown that one can persuade the broad public of anything whatever.&quot; And Lundberg states that religions are all &quot;encased in some preposterous myth&quot;...(pp 52 to read more on this). Lundberg also says we are not a democracy at all, and special interests control our government to a large extent, no surprise there! Even with this, Lundberg supports the view that governments are the only thing to keep men from tearing each other apart, he has much more faith in governments than I do. Other topics are immigration and the turning of large parts of big cities into conditions that resemble third world countries. Lundberg does'nt mention conditions in small towns and the country across the USA, a person can encounter similiar conditions there, and probably will only get worst in coming decades.<br />This book jumps around a lot, and repeats now and then, but is well worth reading with much valuable information, it could even shake part of your world-view.of your world-view.	2001-06-05
US	52841839	R1FOBYAMW2U3J1	1857981472	228080471	Across Realtime	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Hard Science Fiction At It's Best	I shall not bore you with another rehash of the outline of this novel, other than to say it is a sweeping saga spanning millions of years. Vinge really illustrates how we rely on our technology, and have largely lost our survival skills to cope with nature on an individual basis. Could we survive as a species if there were only a few hundred humans left? Vinge is a scientist by trade and it shows, he definitely makes you think! This novel has a very good base of scientific fact mixed with a great plot and excellent character developement, and can stand up to anything well known writers such as Asimov or Bradbury or Heinlein ever wrote, and that is saying a lot. As I began to read this book, I read perhaps ten or twelve pages a day, but I became so entranced by the story that later I found it hard to put down, it was so good. I loved the ending of the book, especially the last few paragraphs.	2001-05-27
US	52841839	R2YGGXKBR1NX5B	0060961856	611027735	Cats Cats Cats: A Collection of Great Cat Cartoons	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Feline Humor Galore	Well over a hundred funny cat cartoons are included in this well made volume. They are in black and white, and one page each. My daughter, and I also, thought they were very humorous, and the price is right. I understand it is out of print at this time, but used copies may be available.	2001-05-17
US	52841839	R2VH7CAL3UCFN5	0812576403	85474640	The Light of Other Days	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Conventional Clarke	Clarke and Baxter have done a great job here, I am pleasantly surprised. I thought it was very well written, a page turner. The centerpiece of this novel is the wormcam, a device able to see anywhere in the world and even out into the universe, and also able to peer back into time. Privacy as we know it has been destroyed.<br />The wormcam is used by Clarke and Baxter to illustrate our human condition, sometimes in a not so flattering light. In this novel the wormcam is used at one point to see back into our primate past, and into our toils and triumphs, and see how we are just the latest carriers for the immortal DNA we contain. I found this simply fascinating. Plot and character development are excellent, what you would expect from Clarke and Baxter. <br />I have been a fan of Clarke ever since I was young, but to me he did not foresee the coming advent of nanotechnology, which quite possibly has the potential to transform how we view life and death itself. For a great novel about this read THE FIRST IMMORTAL, by James Halperin. But Clarke and Baxter have a jewell here, well worth reading, and has a surprising and unexpected ending.	2001-05-06
US	52841839	R2G5Z4S4O96NZ9	0312877811	102818080	The Spike: How Our Lives Are Being Transformed By Rapidly Advancing Technologies	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Future Shock!	The 'Spike', also known as the 'Singularity', is simply science and technological advances happening so rapidly that they appear as an almost vertical line when charted against the passage of time. Advances in disparate fields tend to feed on each other in a synergistic manner, making the graph of the Spike even steeper. We seem to be on the threshold of possibilities that will transform human life on the planet and beyond past most peoples' wildest imaginations. Damien Broderick presents a very balanced view, giving both the optimists and pesimists their viewpoints. <br />According to Broderick, advanced artificial intelligences and nanotechnology may be two of the technologies that will predominate when the Spike arrives, but he says there probably will also be much we can't even conceive of now. Broderick writes that the Spike is not inevitable, as a disaster of one kind or another may overtake us, but most likely we will see one. If a Spike does take place it could transform everything about us, it would make for very interesting times indeed. Post Spike possibilities include immortal life for us, and a posthuman life throughout the cosmos, nano-manufacture of almost anything we want for free or nearly free, to the gray goo scenario in which nanobots are set free on the planet to reduce everything, including us, back to their component atoms. But the Luddites are wrong, we cannot stop or turn back, the promises of these technologies are just too great, and Broderick discusses this area superbly. <br />Damien Broderick quotes several prominent researchers in various relevant fields of science and technology, their views make excellent reading, and several of them give guesses as to when a Spike may occur, but in the end we can only surmise the barest outline a Spike may take. As Broderick states in the book, &quot;we can't yet imagine the shape of things to come&quot;. This is a book well worth reading, with extensive notes and suggested further reading at the back of the volume.	2001-04-30
US	52841839	RIMT0F1BW2WID	0967271207	212258072	The Baby Boomers' Guide to Living Forever	Books	5	8	11	N	N	An Excellent Guide To The Life-Extension Revolution!	Over the years I have read several health oriented books promoting ideas for healthier and longer lives for us, this one is by far the best, containing down-to-earth advice of a practical and far reaching nature. Many areas are covered, including supplements from arginine to zinc, social issues, and lots of other topics. <br />This book supports the method of using biostasis (cryonics) at the time of death as a means of reaching the future era of advanced nanomedicine, much anticipated by many scientists who work in this nascent field. About fifteen pages are devoted to cryonics, a very good introduction to this subject, an idea and practice that is slowly becoming 'mainstream'. In fact, Terry Grossman, himself an M.D., is signed up for cryonics.<br />Overall, this volume contains much useful advice and should be read by everyone.	2001-04-08
US	52841839	RRN0VT7R1UXYY	0312867999	88801189	Greenhouse Summer	Books	1	3	5	N	N	Don't  Bother!	A previous review here warned that this book is poor, but heedlessly I read it anyway, to my chagrin. Character developement is fair, but plot and background science are just plain hideous. This novel is full of fancy French words, point is, who cares, and it is so excessive it detracts from the story line. The writing style makes reading a chore through much of the book, very vague at times and jumps back and forth a lot with the reader struggling to figure things out. <br />Explicit sex is graphically portrayed two or three times, and to no point whatsoever. Some writers, notably William Barton, use sex as an integral part of character developement and plot, but Spinrad seems to just stick it in (no pun intended) for just shock appeal, or whatever. No more Spinrad novels for me, for awhile.	2001-03-31
US	52841839	R6L5T0AWHGC1S	0312867077	219698118	Genesis	Books	5	3	6	N	N	A billion year future history	Poul Anderson, one of our great science fiction writers, takes us on a journey of a billion years with this yarn. It begins with astronaut Christian Brannock in the near term future and ends about a billion years later, with humanity scattered across the galaxy and for the most part uploaded into the computers that span the galaxy and control everything. A few humans have been re-instated on earth for an experiment run by a perhaps slightly deranged computer called Gaia. <br />This novel did keep my interest, although it may be too far 'off the wall' for some tastes.	2001-03-29
US	52841839	R1IHLZYMZA8TSU	0684822709	522258161	Man and Microbes: Disease and Plagues in History and Modern Times	Books	5	17	19	N	N	A Microbe Primer!	This book briefly sketches plagues and infectious diseases, from ancient times and of earliest recorded writings, to the present day (1995). Some terrible times for humanity are included in this book, such as when 5000 people a day were dying in Rome around A.D. 251-266 from perhaps measles or smallpox plague, to present day AIDS. <br />Arno Karlen writes in a style very easy to read. The science in this book seems to be excellent, you can learn a lot about how diseases are spread, from animals and insects to us, and between people, and how diseases mutate over time and people adapt to them so they are sometimes less virulent later than when first encountered. Also covered is how diseases are spread thru behavior and when man alters his environment, two examples being cities and agriculture. <br />Many diseases are covered in this volume, if you are interested in reading more about any individual disease there are books on just about any one of them to learn more.	2001-02-14
US	52841839	R12KR2ZVAGT2IG	0446608904	78981579	The Martian Race	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Better than Bova!	I have read Ben Bova's two Martian novels, MARS, and RETURN TO MARS, and I thought this novel was better, although Bova's novels are very good in their own right. Benford's novel is much more plausible in that the Mars missions he depicts are bare minimum in terms of hardware, number of astronauts, redundancy, etc., probably how we will go to Mars someday in real life. Benford goes into great detail to describe the science necessary to understand the technology, and Mars itself, without being drawn out and dull, too much science is a turn-off to some people. In this novel there is a lot of action and suspense, it kept my interest throughout and was a fun read. It has a very interesting ending, almost poetic, very well done, and leaves room for a sequel, one I for sure would read.	2001-02-03
US	52841839	R34OIAVFALWTNH	1583485783	961467656	Ralph's Journey	Books	4	3	3	N	N	An Interesting  Read	I bought this novel a few months ago and finally got around to reading it, boy was I in for a surprise, as it has excellent character development, plot, and great writing style. The book begins when Ralph, the main character, has his car break down in front of Honest John's used car lot, back in the 1950's. There begins a long lasting friendship, which leads to many things. In this book you will read about the new and used car business, love, the promise of current and future science, and the meaning of life, with the underlying theme calling us to question everything. I love the philosophy of the main characters, clearly ahead of it's time. <br />This book will keep your interest, in fact, if it was'nt for having to stop to eat or work, I would have read it in one sitting. If you only read a handful of books this year, I would certainly include this one. It is one of those rare books, that when I finished reading it, I mulled it over in my mind a day or two afterwards, as it's message was so powerful. To me, the only flaw in this novel was that the ending seemed to be a trifle rushed.	2001-01-28
US	52841839	R34IF3IDZQRKTY	0312867263	848001248	Saturn's Race	Books	5	5	10	N	N	Science Fiction At It's Best	A very rational and well written novel. It is the year 2020 and biotechnology is well advanced, particularly on the artificial floating island Xanadu, one of several floating islands. This novel has intrigue, terrorism, and a love story mixed in, and the outcome keeps you guessing. It illustrates also that any technology can be used for both good and evil. SATURN'S RACE is a page turner if there ever was one, fast-paced action, a great story in a relatively short novel. <br />This book would make an excellent movie, but Hollywood seems obsessed with monsters on Mars and other inane sillyness, but I digress. Anyway, this is excellent science fiction from Larry Niven, one of the masters, and Steven Barnes, another superb writer. Now, if I can only get that song by Olivia Newton John out of my mind!	2001-01-18
US	52841839	R2QWGFLATY6RPD	0399146148	51614271	DoubleShot: The New James Bond Adventure	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Masterful Tale	This is one of those books that hook and draw you in, it is written so well. The words flow right off the pages to you. In this novel Bond continues his battle with the insidious Union, a highly organized crime organization. The plot and character development are superb. Raymond Benson is great at descriptions of different geographical settings, and this book is no exception. To me, this novel was a joy to read, Benson seems to be getting better and better.	2001-01-06
US	52841839	R3DTQB3WSMLJQN	0451197674	138968541	Code Blue	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Very Interesting And Plausible Plot	This novel has an excellent plot and character development. It has several surprises and kept me guessing. The story largely concerns cryonics, the science of freezing people that have just died, as an 'ambulance' to the future where more advanced medical technology may make them well and young again. I see no reason to read novels about nonsense such as the occult, etc. when you can read a down to earth novel, such as this one. CODE BLUE would make an excellent movie. Fisher seems to have done her homework, the science depicted appears to be accurate. I hate reading novels where the science is presented inaccurately, Fisher did a great job here. <br />If you want to read a good novel, expertly written in a flowing, easy to read style, this novel won't disappoint you. It kept my interest and was hard to put down at times. I will read more from Nancy Fisher in the future.	2000-12-19
US	52841839	RQ87XAW8NRP92	0441359175	340611713	I Will Fear No Evil	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A 500 Page Cerebral Exercise!	A Mr. Smith is very old and not far from death, however, this Mr. Smith is extremely rich, so he pays to have his brain transferred to a young body whose previous owner died of massive brain damage. So starts this novel, with several surprises in store for the reader, which I will not mention here so as not to spoil them. There is much banter back and forth between a couple of the main characters which I found enjoyable and well done. A lot of this book, in fact most of it, explores man/women relationships, some may not like this and want a shoot-em up space opera, which this is not. This book is the near equivalent of a university course, say, Human Relations 101, expertly written. Heinlein was always great at looking at the human nature side of things. Another of my favorite authors, William Barton, also writes in a similar style and if you like these types of science fiction novels I do recommend him.	2000-12-08
US	52841839	R30VQ7ZTV3JYJ5	0690012675	187766237	The Christmas Cat	Books	4	18	20	N	N	A Neat Little Book!	My daughter recently read this book and liked it, like me she is a cat lover. I found the story charming, and of course it has a happy ending, being wrote for 4-8 year olds, however, I thought it should have been a couple of pages longer, at least. But overall, this book is worth the money. If you want another book of cats and Christmas, check out CHRISTMAS CATS, by Lesley Anne Ivory, this is a book of her paintings combined with little stories about cats and Christmas, for older children and adults.	2000-11-28
US	52841839	R268AV2OBAQX4A	0380976404	700939540	Return to Mars	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Red Planet Adventure	This is the sequel to MARS, a fine novel about the first expedition to Mars I read a few years ago. RETURN TO MARS chronicles the second expedition to Mars, funded by private sources, with lots of human relations conflict mixed in, Bova is excellent with this. He also is good at little details, and descriptions of scenery and technology. There is great plot and character developement, all hallmarks of novels by Ben Bova, what you expect from him as one of the top hard science fiction writers. <br />RETURN TO MARS has an ending that obviously leaves room for another sequel, if so I look forward to it. In the real world of space exploration it seems to me that the next major international space project may very well be human exploration of the red planet. As hard science fiction, RETURN TO MARS makes one feel like you have already been there. This book was a joy to read and hard to put down at times.	2000-11-06
US	52841839	R2HJMNY4JQVFH2	0517160218	214558379	Christmas Cats	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A cat-lovers Christmas!	If you love cats and Christmas, as I do, this book is for you. Lesley Anne Ivory has several cats and kittens, and she paints the Christmas scenes the cats find themselves in, and includes a little story with each one. The paintings of hers are superb, as is the text. This is a charming little book, of high quality, and one you may want to leave out during the holiday season for others to enjoy also.	2000-10-30
US	52841839	RVNHZIJ7A6BAR	0517066467	195431384	Anything Book, Classic Exec Series: Black	Books	5	62	64	N	N	An excellent value!	I have been keeping a diary for years now. Over that time I have used several types of blank books, and I have been using this one for a long time. This one is sturdy and attractive, very well made, it should last the ages, and at a reasonable cost, there is no need to spend $10 or more on a journal. Other colors besides black are available. I usually buy one of these in conjunction with a book order to save on shipping costs.	2000-10-24
US	52841839	R9Q74L92GI2MQ	0380974665	617972308	Nanotime	Books	2	5	6	N	N	An interesting but shallow read	It is the year 2030 in this novel, and oil has become much scarcer and more expensive. John Grant may have come up with a solution to the energy crises, and he is a part of a complicated plot that skips around a lot and is hard to follow at times. There is war in the Middle East (what's new!), and this war does spread, a picture of a not rosy future.<br />I found that Bart Kosko did not do very well in character development and also did poorly in describing places and scenery. It seems this novel should have been longer to flesh it out.  <br />In this book you will read about mind transfers to computer chips, artificial wombs, nanotechnology, and other technology about thirty years down the road, and all of this was done in a satisfactory way, but there is a lot more better science fiction out there to read, unless of course the subject matter of this book should interest you.	2000-10-16
US	52841839	RPP99BG9XH0UH	0688167934	397865119	Flying Cloud: The True Story of America's Most Famous Clipper Ship and the Woman who Guided Her	Books	5	13	15	N	N	A Great Clipper Ship book!	This book is about the Clipper Ship FLYING CLOUD and her record breaking voyage between New York and San Francisco in 1851, a record that would stand for over 100 years. The navigator was Ellen Creesy, the wife of the captain, Perkins Creesy. Ellen was interested in science and the natural world, rare for a woman of her day, and still rare even today. She must have been a jewel, in addition to being an excellent navigator. <br />The book covers life aboard a Clipper Ship very well, from the viewpoints of the sailors, officers, captain, passengers, and also of Ellen. Clipper Ships were primarly used to transport cargo at a speed unattainable with sailing ships of previous designs. The passage around the treacherous Cape Horn is also covered well. This book is very well written, a joy to read and at times hard to put down.<br />The Clipper Ship era was one of the romantic times of sailing. I understand that no surviving examples of the Clipper Ships remain to this day. I would love to see one, and if I am wrong someone please do a review of this book and inform us.	2000-09-24
US	52841839	R17X0QKKDOLRWP	0671015451	442230342	Vulcan's Heart (Star Trek)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Galaxy of intrigue and suspense	This is a very, very good novel. You are not likely to read better science  fiction any time soon. My all time favorite Star Trek novel is SPOCK'S  WORLD, and this book is about as good. VULCAN'S HEART takes place in a time  long after Spock's Starfleet days, and he is now an ambassador. He, and  Saavik to follow, undertake undercover missions to the Romulan planet of  Romulus, and the action is intense from that point on. Character  development and plot is excellent. <br />In this book, Spock is undergoing Pon  Farr, the Vulcan mating process they undergo every few decades. Pon Farr is  emotional, not logical, and Spock is caught up in it deeply. Can a Vulcan  experience love, and admit to it? Spock would normally say: indeed not. But  this is Pon Farr. Read the book to find the answers.	2000-09-03
US	52841839	RC7LH9LLKQTFV	0375501037	191715854	Darwin's Ghost: The Origin of the Species Updated	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Evolution is all around us!	This book is an updated version of Charles Darwin's THE ORIGIN OF SPECIES,  to me the most important book of all time, no exceptions. Darwin knew  nothing of genes and DNA when he wrote his book, and Jones includes  evidence of this sort in his book, along with more geology and fossil finds  than Darwin had available to him. The writing style of Jones is not clear  and flowing in this book, although the message of evolution and how it  works is very clear. This is not a book you read in one evening, I found it  a very tedious read, but at the same time very rewarding as Jones really  knows his science. The book covers the mechanics of evolution well, and  gives many examples. <br />I find it simply amazing that atoms and molecules  can arrange themselves, using only natural physical laws, into more and  more complex forms, and eventually humans evolve and come into existence,  billions of years later. That is 'magic' to me. This book illustrates this  very well, evolution powered by mutations and natural selection, which  continue to this day to mold and define us and all life around us. The  'fact' of evolution, which to most scientists has proven itself beyond mere  theory, must be very vexatious for the creationists, who bury their heads  in the sand and make up bogus arguments against it, or ignore it  altogether. Jones in this book occasionally discusses the evolution vrs.  creationist debate. <br />We live in an absolutely beautiful universe, and  this book will help one understand part of it. Jones even pokes fun at his  students here and there. Meanwhile, the machinery of evolution marches  on.......	2000-08-03
US	52841839	R13TFKGBE6J3H7	0515128333	216120470	High Time to Kill	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Classic James Bond	This novel contains the James Bond most of us know well. Bond smokes, drinks, chases women (or do they mostly chase him) and takes them to bed, has an international playboy lifestyle, and he does'nt apologize for any of  the above. <br />The novel has a very good plot and decent character  development, and with fast paced action so characteristic of Bond  adventures. Benson describes geographical regions in minute detail, and  this adds to reading enjoyment, a lazy writer would not go to the trouble  to do this. Also, in a couple a places in the book Bond does a  self-analysis of his life, very well done, as is the book as a whole.	2000-07-04
US	52841839	RS5SOK6EDDFMP	0486229505	70049699	Safe and Simple Electrical Experiments (Dover Children's Science Books)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Get Your Kids Interested In Science!	This book contains 101 electrical and magnetic experiments and projects. The materials used can be found around the house or easily purchased at a local store. These experiments teach many of the basics of electricity and  magnetics and can be very informative for kids, and even adults, and the  illustrations and text explaining the science behind the experiments are  well done. I think science is fascinating, and this book can help you  spread the 'magic' of science to others.	2000-06-30
US	52841839	R2N6XX0KOZGWD6	0449983676	289885381	October 1964	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great Baseball History	I grew up in the St. Louis area and am naturally a Cardinal fan (gee, does the sun come up in the east and set in the west!) so I greatly enjoyed this book. I also grew up with the idea that the Yankees were less than human, although after reading this book, they are okay, although they still remain the best team money can buy, to this day, which is not okay.  <br />Most of the book covers the players and how they became major league ball players, through their ordeals in the minor leagues, and in the cases of all the black players, racism and the difficulties arising from that. Also covered in depth are the owners, managers, scouts, and pennant races, all building up to that amazing World Series held between the Yankees and the Cardinals in October 1964.<br />This book goes into amazing detail, and is very thorough, the next best thing to having seats to that World Series. I am too young to really remember that Series, but I do remember seeing Lou Brock at Busch Stadium stealing bases in '73 and '74, and Bob Gibson pitching in 1974, his last year, one of the best ever hurlers in the game, and these are treasured memories for me. But you don't have to be a Yankee or Cardinal fan to enjoy this book, it should be fascinating reading for any baseball fan, and it really highlights how the game has changed over the years.	2000-06-18
US	52841839	R13ADBSMMGBZQT	039453512X	137607328	The Demon-Haunted World: Science as a Candle in the Dark	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Should be required reading in High Schools and Universities	This book is Carl Sagans' review of part of his life and his passionate love of science, and his plea for a more rational society. However, as per other reviews here, the people most in need of reading this book are  precisely the ones who are'nt reading it, and others may read it with a  closed mind to begin with. The book is a call for people to think for  themselves, using the scientific method, in their everday lives, and give  religion (esp. fundamentalists) and many other things, the critical  examinations they most desperately deserve. But alas, social inertia is  very strong, and the changes envisioned in this book may take a century or  longer. <br />We live in a very credulous age, where healthy skepticism  (coupled with a sense of enquiring wonder) is nearly non-existent. I see  this all around me and find it very depressing. This volume documents all  of this well, and in chapter 12 even supplies tools for a baloney detection  kit. Sagan does call for sensitivity and compassion when dealing with  peoples' irrational beliefs. <br />In later chapters, Sagan laments the  illiteracy in science and math in this country, a very big problem, and the  inability for a large percentage of our population, adults and children  alike, to think for themselves, and possible solutions. We should all be  concerned about this. Many more issues are discussed by Sagan in the  ensuing chapters.<br />I quote Carl Sagan here (not included in this book).  &quot;Extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence&quot;. If more  people would understand and believe this, the world would be a more  rational and better place. Carl Sagan, my mentor, is dead now, but his  works live on to inspire future generations.	2000-06-06
US	52841839	RPZK8H4R2MXDL	0882661086	214112070	Woodstove Cookery: At Home on the Range	Books	5	23	27	N	N	A complete guide!	We are building a house and I am considering using a wood cook stove outside on the patio, to be used during the summer months, when the inside electric stove would heat up the house, so I bought this book as an introduction to using one. <br />This book covers a lot of ground, including  new and used  stoves, various types of wood for fuel, coal stoves, how to  operate the stove, recipes, and a whole host of other topics. Now I can't  wait to buy a stove and get 'cookin'.	2000-05-09
US	52841839	R3LAEWVRKA8C4N	0060920475	73741872	Dove	Books	5	64	69	N	N	A love story and lots of sailing	Years ago, when I was growing up, I read the account of Robin Lee Graham as the young man who sailed around the world alone, and also got married along the way, in three installments of the National Geographic, circa  1965-1970. These articles so affected me that I also wanted to sail around  the world. However, as I read this book it soon became apparent to me that  this book is also an account of a true life love story, between Robin and  Patti, both with simple values and needs, in sharp contrast to most people  who are primarily concerned with money and social status. They were deep in  love and would, and did, do anything for each other. <br />Robin alone, and  later with Patti, sailed to some of the most beautiful places on Earth, I  think they must have enough memories for 20 lifetimes. The writing style  makes you feel that you are right there with them. <br />The pictures included  in this book are poor black and white, but as I remember, the National  Geographic articles included excellent color photographs, it would do you  well to find those issues.<br />As for me, I never did get to sail around the  world, a little thing called life intervened, the grind and all that! I did  take a sailing class  through a local university in the summer of '77, even  got an &quot;A&quot; in the class, but this pales in comparison to the  daring sailing of Robin Graham. Sometimes, during trips to Florida I gaze  at ocean-going yachts at wharfs, and yes, the dream is still alive, thanks  to Dove	2000-04-27
US	52841839	R3K4BCFLCW3KCN	0812557468	164245608	The Bones of Time	Books	3	7	14	N	N	Bad science!	I read the MISSISSIPPI and QUEEN novels by Goonan about a year ago, and  rated those at five stars, so I gave this novel a try. THE BONES OF TIME I  found to be flawed in one very major way. This book centers around the idea  of our consciousness being influenced or generated by quantum effects, and  in reality there is no evidence of that. This novel even quotes Roger  Penrose and his theory, which as far as I know has little or no support in  the scientific community, although Penrose sells a lot of books!<br />As a  scientist, I believe in the scientific principles, which I wiil not go into  here. Therefore, I hold science fiction writers accountable for including  bad science and fantasy in their novels. These writers, in my view, should  be popularizing how future science will improve or influence our lives and  situation, it is their social obligation in a sense. <br />In regards to the  pure literary value of this novel, I found the plot to be poor, and it was  a chore just to finish the book.<br />If you would like to read a novel about  future science firmly grounded in reality, read the fine novel THE FIRST  IMMORTAL, by James Halperin.	2000-04-19
US	52841839	R3HJL3TXRC472T	0345421825	934137363	The First Immortal: A Novel Of The Future	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Think for yourself. Can you?	I first read this novel in hardback a couple of years ago, and now just finished this 2nd edition in paperback, changed somewhat. The plot and character development are good, equally divided between technology and the personal lives of the people involved. The plot centers around cryonics,  people being suspended via cryonics and revived, decades later, when  technology is more advanced. I gave this novel 4 stars instead of five  stars due to some of the improbable things Halperin states, such as tens of  thousands of people signed up for cryonics by the year 2005, when in fact  only about 1000 people are signed up as I type this, and a few other not  likely items. However, I do agree with Halperin that cryonics will  ultimately work, given many decades. One thing the book stresses over and  over again is that people today do not think for themselves, and instead  follow the crowd. It does take sheer force of will to see the universe as  it really is and take action, as it takes to become a cryonicist.	2000-03-11
US	52841839	R2BEIJNODOVW5F	0553296167	657048443	Dark Sky Legion	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Well written but somewhat depressing	I bought this novel through Amazon's used book service as I am a big fan of William Barton. After reading it, I was left with a depressed feeling, this book does not depict humanities' future as bright as some authors do.  But that is okay, as there is no rule  that says everything has to be  peaches and cream! However, I did enjoy Barton's later novels better than  this one. There is sex in this novel, so readers beware if that bothers  you.	2000-03-04
US	52841839	R1BMN7BHQOZ9XN	0553581279	51302526	The Silver Metal Lover	Books	5	5	7	N	N	FINE SCIENCE FICTION!	This is the only science fiction romance novel I ever read, and I found it enjoyable. Tanith Lee can write superbly, and she does a great job with plot and character development. Even though this novel is almost twenty  years old, it is timeless, and not dated at all. The only part of the book  I found a bit off was the supernatural element, to me science fiction  should not include this, but this did not harm the book in any great way.  Get a copy a read it, a very good story.	2000-02-01
US	52841839	R1V64S4WY2H0F2	0446601667	729250187	When Heaven Fell	Books	5	7	7	N	N	wow!	I have read six or seven of Barton's novels, and all are very good, this one is no exception. It is based in a world in which a Master Race has subdued Earth and also controls most of our galaxy. Mercenaries are hired  by the Master Race, aliens and humans alike, Athol Morrison being one of  them. The book centers around Athol and his adventures and personal life. I  found this book simply fascinating, a rare page turner. William Barton  writes with adult content and themes, so beware if you are easily offended,  however, I find this writing style very refreshing and honest, in regards  to true human nature and instincts that few if any other SF writers ever  touch. I understand this novel is out of print, but it would be worth it to  locate a used copy somewhere.	2000-01-22
US	52841839	R2F1TEZQRLLB2U	0061057983	514473042	Diaspora	Books	2	9	19	N	N	FANTASY OR SCIENCE FICTION?	There is a point where science fiction becomes fantasy, and Greg Egan passes that point with a vengeance. The mostly speculative physics is just that, speculation, fantasy run amok! The plot was poor, and character  development was atrocious. I could feel no sympathy for, or identify with,  any of the characters. The only good parts of the story were where mind  transfers took place, this idea was well done here, but for an even better  treatment of that read THE FIRST IMMORTAL by James Halperin, a very good  novel.	2000-01-12
US	52841839	RKLM5J8P9A59L	0446607061	318289750	When We Were Real	Books	5	13	24	N	N	MAGNIFICENT SCIENCE FICTION	I have read five or six of Barton's (and co-authored) books, all were great, but this is my favorite so far. He writes in a very intense emotional and physical style, I find myself saying to myself as I read,  yes, this is how it really is! This is adult science fiction, not the  superficial fluff such as Arthur C. Clarke writes.  If you are not easily  offended by the 'adult' content  this book contains, you should like it,  the book was a page turner for me.	2000-01-03
US	52841839	RICNF38S49HKS	0515125504	33146438	The Facts of Death (James Bond)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	VERY GOOD, BUT NOT GREAT	I found this novel to have an interesting plot and good characterization. Much of the novel occurs in Greece, and descriptions of classical sites add to reading pleasure. There is much action and suspense, as to be expected  in a Bond adventure. The book did keep my interest. I had to knock one star  off of my rating, as I thought some Bond exploits were too implausible,  such as the drone airplane that launches and retrieves under Bond's car  (the car moving, no less), and an underwater fight that has Bond doing a  lot of swimming without an air tank for a long time. Things should be  realistic! All in all, a good novel and well worth reading.	1999-12-30
US	52841839	R10FC5N1HQCA8L	0394826981	549303296	The Night Before Christmas	Books	5	5	6	N	N	GREAT ILLUSTRATIONS	I bought this book late in 1994 and read it to my little boy and girl on Christmas eves. Of course the poem is a great classic, but what makes this edition worth buying are the illustrations, they are simply magnificent,  far better than other editions I have seen. I see now that it is out of  print, do yourself a favor and spare no effort or expense to find one!	1999-12-27
US	52841839	R3E15XFU0OX99K	042517350X	495236364	The World Is Not Enough	Books	5	2	4	N	N	AN EASY FUN READ	I saw the movie first, then read the book. It is written in an easy to read style, and follows the movie closely. The book wastes no words and has fast paced action, just like the movie. If you liked the movie you should  love this novel.	1999-12-19
US	52841839	RCPYJY7FJCKTQ	0446672513	177215083	Acts of Conscience	Books	5	3	3	N	N	VERY FINE SCIENCE FICTION	ACTS OF CONSCIENCE by William Barton is another great novel by this writer, and I have read several of his, and he pulls no punches in his themes and styles. He is definitely my favorite science fiction author,  easily surpassing 'greats' such as A.C. Clarke and his outdated space  operas.  Barton's novels dwell on the human condition and sexuality is not  shortchanged or covered up or glossed over, as with most other authors. My  favorite saying is: THE UNIVERSE DOES'NT CARE WHAT YOU THINK&quot; seems to  me to be a strong undercurrent in Barton's novels {and in ones he  co-authors}. Don't read this book if ideas contrary to what you may have  grown up with may offend you!	1999-12-15
US	52841839	R2Z4VA8FE17N85	0671019899	641725071	Across the Universe (Star Trek, No. 88)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A fun easy read	I gave this book five stars because it was a short book that was written in an easy reading style. Plot was good and had a fast pace. I read nearly all the Star Trek original series novels except the ones with sequels, I  don't want to get bogged down with those. A none Star Trek fan may give  this book less than five stars, and my five stars assume you are a Star  Trek fan.	1999-12-08
US	52841839	R2HMTW56CII93Q	0812536266	27818083	Queen City Jazz	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Cutting edge science fiction!	This review is for both QUEEN CITY JAZZ and the sequel MISSISSIPPI BLUES, as I just read both back to back. Although both novels may to some people  be too long, after having read them both I found them to contain excellent  character development and also a great story. Both books center on  nanotechnology, in the medium term future, and it's effects on the  characters, and the country as a whole, very well done. Of course, if this  doesn't appeal to you, read one of Arthur C. Clarke's outdated space  operas. These two books are first class science fiction, with hard science  thrown in, you won't find any fantasy here. I especially liked the morality  and down to earth world views of the characters. Now we need another  sequel.<br />One final note, if you like hard science fiction, also read THE  FIRST IMMORTAL by James Halperin, a very good book, also with  nanotechnology thrown in.	1999-05-11
US	52841839	R2KDEC5QG7QE0H	0312199066	954230535	The Last Man on the Moon: Astronaut Eugene Cernan and America's Race in Space	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great book about the historic race to the Lunar surface	I was born in 1955 so was just old enough to appreciate the Apollo program as it took place and realize it's historic significance at the time. This  book is a very good overview of that era and earlier events during projects  Gemini and Mercury. But to me the strong points in this book are Cernan's  inside information about other astronauts and how various events came  about, really fasinating to a space buff like me, and even to a general  reader unfamiliar to the space program. I have read books by other  astronauts and this book is just as good as any of them. As this book says,  Apollo in a way came before it's time, and we dropped the ball by not  continuing it longer. Finally, the writing style is very easy to read, buy  this book, you won't regret it.	1999-03-16
US	52841839	R1PUBE5CV95M5W	0449908976	510564699	Anatomy of Love: A Natural History of Mating, Marriage, and Why We Stray	Books	5	23	29	N	N	An honest and refreshing view of love and sex	As a scientist (chemist) I enjoy reading science books in other diciplines. Fishers' book was well written and researched, a joy to read.  It gives an evolutionary view of how we evolved in body and brain with  regards to sex and love, and a great deal of attention is given to the  effects of brain chemicals, discovered via modern research. This is a  thoroughly enlightening book, and to be read by people with and open mind,  in other words, this book does not support the Creationist view of life.	1999-03-13
US	52841839	R111O2K1J4QXEU	0380974479	264790956	Circuit of Heaven	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A magnificent love story	This book concerns itself with the 'bin', a virtual reality copy of the real world, with many improvements, making it a virtual 'paradise'. The  ideas and technology portrayed are highly realistic and plausible, this  book may be considered FUTURE HISTORY instead of science fiction. Danvers  does a great job with character development and descriptions of places that  add greatly to reading enjoyment. It is a love story in the end, and very  well done, a masterpiece, I found it very hard to put the book down. I  understand that Danvers is writing a sequel, I look forward to it. <br />If  having read this book, and you wonder, could something similar to this  really happen, I recommend the book THE AGE OF SPIRITUAL MACHINES by Ray  Kurzweil.	1999-01-22
US	52841839	R1QSHNS9AZEGKO	0553576305	727642571	Vast	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Too far out!	I love 'hard' science fiction. In my view, this book could have been 'harder' but for the fact that it's storyline is set too far into the future for my taste and thus 'fantasy' creeps in. However, it is still a good read, with nanotech portrayed in a very interesting light.	1998-12-27
US	52841839	R3ESK9IEC2R5EP	1886801215	243419128	Beyond Humanity: Cyberevolution and Future Minds	Books	5	11	13	N	N	This book gives a clear view of the exciting road ahead	I like to read books about what will happen in the future. However, a lot of these books never mention nanotechnology, which is the science of the  atomic scale manipulation of matter. Nanotechnology is almost inevitable  and promises to keep us young forever and improve our bodies with  enhancements and produce products, including food, very cheaply, or even  free! BEYOND HUMANITY delves into nanotechnology deeply, and the book  portrays the future in a extremely positive light, and I agree. This may  begin to happen in only about 50 years from now, according to the authors.  If you only read one book this year, read this one, the vast majority of  people have no idea what the future holds in store, this book is a great  roadmap to it.	1998-12-13
US	52841839	R3G187L4IXKY4V	0671748742	835514862	Left to Die: The Tragedy of the USS Juneau	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A real page turner!	This book starts off with the backgrounds of the major characters so the first few dozen pages seemed to me to be rather dull. But this background  information is really required to understand what happens to these people  later, and what happens later is truly amazing. Just buy this book and read  it, like me you will probably  find their stories fascinating, and in the  end hope wars are forever behind us.	1998-11-26
US	52841839	R3PNX6XU228OO	1565121465	195790913	Space: A Memoir	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Reading this book is like being there.	Reading this book is just like being there. I am  nearly the same age as Jesse Kercheval is and I loved her detail of the space center area. Our  family vacations there occasionally. The stories in the book of her growing up were fascinating, and I found I could'nt put the book down, that's rare for me, and I read a lot. When an event such as a space launch took place that she wrote about I thought to myself that I was doing this or that, and where. It was great to get the perspective of a girl growing up in a time and place that will never happen again, and very humorous also, I laughed and laughed at times. Jesse, thanks for this treasure.	1998-02-21
