US	52842809	RJG6WG7D5WFA3	0786420723	600385168	Out of the Mouth of Hell: Civil War Prisons and Escapes	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Well done work on Civil War Prisons	At the onset of the Civil War there was little need for large camps or stockades to hold prisoners of war.  Converted granaries, warehouses and forts filled the need for the holding of Confederate and Union soldiers.  As the war progressed so did the need for larger holding facilities, thus large scale prisons were born out of necessity.  The camps, laid out and designed to hold a specific amount of men were soon filled to capacity and then overloaded with men, so much so that the average man would often relish the quick death by bullet to the long drawn out starvation of camp life. Taxed beyond comprehension these men endured pain and suffering from malnourishment, infestations of all sorts of vermin, extremes in weather and disgusting sanitary conditions that caused many a soldier to succumb from falling into a privy and being to weak to pull himself out.  He would drown in his and others filth.<br /><br />Out of desperation men would barter their very lives for a possible way to end their misery.  They would sell clothing for food only to die from the elements, or be attacked by marauding inmates bent on trying to better their own horrible existence in \\"hell\\".  Death became like a friend to many a soldier, offering him an easy way out of the pain and suffering.  Heavy labor, starvation, endless beatings, and putrid thirst quenching water became a way of life, a life not worth living, and quick to escape to the tranquility and peacefulness of death was sought after by many.  A few fell back on their trade and crafted jewelry out of animal bones or rocks, and sold them outside the walls of confinement.<br /><br />This work sheds even more light into the misery and complexity of housing prisoners and does so quite well.  The author choose 27 locations form the North and South and gives the reader excellent detail into the Locations when they were established, specifics type of prison along with type of prisoners, capacities, known escapes and nicknames.  Each facility is arranged alphabetically to aid in referencing the material.  Since the Confederate prison records were sketchy at best only the Federal prison population and escapes were reported from July 1862 through 1865.  This is documented in the appendix right before the chapter notes at the end of the book.  It covers a 41 month period of captivity.<br /><br />There was extensive research put into this work and it shows not only in the writing but in the Chapter Notes.  Official correspondence from camp commanders is used quite heavily, as well as the Official Records.  The Notes section alone will give the reader a wonderful avenue in which to do further research if they are interested in a particular facility.<br /><br />This work gives the reader keen insight into what the common soldier faced when placed within the prison walls and how he battled the elements, vermin and his friends to live another day.  The struggle to survive is mirrored with a monumental effort to escape and the details relating to several escapes along with the ideas hatched in the tormented soldiers minds is spelled out with in this book. The extremes that they would go to just to escape show just how bad life was within the walls of confinement.  Topped off by local inhabitants, local terrain and how poorly some of the prison officials treated the prisoners, one truly sees why the possibility of escape kept many a man alive.<br /><br />True, some prisons were worse than others, and to that point, this book gives an accurate account of how men faired from prison to prison.  It was an enjoyable book to read and one filled with first hand information and primary source material.  I'd highly recommend this work for anyone interested in prisons and the inevitable escape.cility is arranged alphabetically to aid in referencing the material.  Since the Confederate prison records were sketchy at best only the Federal prison population and escapes were reported from July 1862 through 1865.  This is documented in the appendix right before the chapter notes at the end of the book.  It covers a 41 month period of captivity.  <br /> <br />There was extensive research put into this work and it shows not only in the writing but in the Chapter Notes.  Official correspondence from camp commanders is used quite heavily, as well as the Official Records.  The Notes section alone will give the reader a wonderful avenue in which to do further research if they are interested in a particular facility.   <br /> <br />This work gives the reader keen insight into what the common soldier faced when placed within the prison walls and how he battled the elements, vermin and his friends to live another day.   The struggle to survive is mirrored with a monumental effort to escape and the details relating to several escapes along with the ideas hatched in the tormented soldiers minds is spelled out with in this book. The extremes that they would go to just to escape show just how bad life was within the walls of confinement.  Topped off by local inhabitants, local terrain and how poorly some of the prison officials treated the prisoners, one truly sees why the possibility of escape kept many a man alive.   <br /> <br />True, some prisons were worse than others, and to that point, this book gives an accurate account of how men faired from prison to prison.  It was an enjoyable book to read and one filled with first hand information and primary source material.  I'd highly recommend this work for anyone interested in prisons and the inevitable escape.    <br />	2005-06-29
US	52842809	RB62XN110XJFX	0060934913	24249899	Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Tells it like it is.	Reading this brought back memories, both good and bad from my earlier days in the restaurant field.  Rising early in the dark morning hours to stand in front of a prep sink picking spinach to deveining 200 pounds of shrimp for Mother's day.  This book goes into the back door stories that many a patron might want to know.  Ever been to a place where the bathroom stank and was a total mess?  The kitchen probably isn't far off!<br />The stories ring true and the lifestyle is one I will never forget.  Only the strong will survive and after reading the accounts of his various restaurants I can luckly say, I have survived.<br />Very good book, easy to read, and hard to put down.  This is a must for your budding chef or chef wanna be.  Just be careful to whom you give the book.  The details get spicy, raunchy and vulgar, but then again, that's many a kitchen for you.<br />Spice up your life.	2003-07-11
US	52842809	RDIYPV11MAQYI	1572492732	232455978	Leather & Steel: The 12th Pennsylvania Cavalry in the Civil War	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Hard Luck Unit	In that the 12th PA was not a front line regiment this work sheds new light on a little known but hard fought unit.  Not only did this unit participate in many engagements but they had the pleasure of handling internal strife and accusations of embezzlement and incompetent leadership.  This book gives excellent accounts in regards to the poor training the men received along with the specifics of almost non-stop fighting and deployment, or to use a phrase from today, 24/7 fear of attack.  The author's detailed Bibliography gives the reader some excellent sources for finding more information as well as corroborating the sources within this work.  Two works in particular; the William P. Graham Letters and Henry B. Petrikin's Diary add some great information and take the reader into the daily life and struggle of the 12th Pennsylvania Cavalry.<br /> The detail of life listed by the soldiers' shows through in this work and the author does an excellent job weaving Official Records with personal accounts.  His report of Antietam is quite interesting and enjoyable to read in that I've traversed that battlefield more than many others.  I'll certainly have a new appreciation for the terrain in the areas hard fought by the cavalry units.  Corporal James P Stewart's account about the dead and dying really brings out the horror of the day.  His longing to see the field of battle and then describing the fresh burials; (if a few shovels of dirt can actually be described as burial), and the subsequent look as if the fields had been plowed had a very striking impact in his life.  Men and wheat became one and they fell where they once marched and looked as if they themselves were fields of wheat just harvested by death himself.<br />The work is well written and gives the reader a wonderful trip into the life of a hard luck cavalry unit.  Mr. Mairer did his homework and has put forth some great effort in researching this subject matter and it show through in every page.  Cover to cover the reader will find that human interest has been successfully merged with historical research.  This work reads well, was hard to put down, and did not drag on into over exacting details. I highly recommend this book to anyone curious about cavalry operations during the Civil War.e reader will find that human interest has been successfully merged with historical research.  This work reads well, was hard to put down, and did not drag on into over exacting details. I highly recommend this book to anyone curious about cavalry operations during the Civil War.	2003-07-11
US	52842809	RY6P3VRJ8TTRE	1888952415	74345193	The Secrets of the M*A*S*H Mess: The Lost Recipes of Private Igor	Books	5	29	30	N	N	M*A*S*H* at it's best - recipes and all!	As a true die hard fan of MASH I can honetly say this \\"takes the cake!\\"  After flipping from beginning to end I actually attempted Hunnicutt's wife's cookie recipe.<br />Needless to say they were AWESOME, and my wife and my family enjoyed them until the last morsel.  I'm now looking through the book for more wonderful morsels of goodness.<br />Jocularity!  Jocularity!	2003-07-11
US	52842809	R1SDWLO7QNB0PV	0804116059	103964996	Roll Me Over: An Infantryman's World War II (Presidio War Classic. World War II)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Great book on WWII	This book was one that I hated to put down.  The stories brought you right to the front line of an average &quot;joe&quot;.  The author's keen eye for detail and true, down to earth language made this a wonderful book.  It honestly felt as if he was sitting in front of me reliving his life during the war and the hardships he endured.<br />I highly suggest anyone and everyone interested in WWII needs to read this book.  It was easy to read, and not filled with over dramatic horror stories.  It was as if you were going out with Raymond himself.<br />Very enjoyable and well worth the reading!	2003-02-28
US	52842809	RFKFOW3A6YEI9	1572492872	370281642	Gateway to Gettysburg: The Second Battle of Winchester	Books	2	4	4	N	N	Needs More Primary Source Material	I was quite excited to receive this work in my mailbox.  A good friend of mine and fellow Civil War buff, Dean Wells used to sit up late at college and often talk about Winchester and the various attacks and strategies that took place.  Dean even went on to write an article that was used in this work thus I truly wanted to take the time to go over this material in the proper fashion.<br />The opening pages give rise to a wonderful description of Winchester and its importance to the Shenandoah Valley.  The description of railroads and terrain give the reader an ideal look into the prominence this area was to play not just at this time but during the entire civil war. The map included on page 4 gives the reader a nice look into the Lower Shenandoah Valley including as far north as Hancock, Md. and as far south as Edinburg, Va.  I would suggest that novices to this battle continually refer back to this map so they can get a better feel for the massive amount of terrain that was covered before and after this battle.<br />As for the next chapter about Robert H. Milroy, I've seen and read better accounts of his pre-military life as well as his subsequent life in the military.  I would have to agree with other authors in that Milroy had a lack luster career during the Mexican War and he was disgusted by his own lack of action.  As for the chapter on his occupation of Winchester I have a hard time believing Mr. Maier's facts on Milroy's ease of \\"governing\\" Winchester.  The author's opinion certainly differs greatly from many of the noted authors who spoke at the civil war seminars I've recently attended this past year.  I just wish there was more primary source material listed in the bibliography to back up the authors findings.<br />In going over the material presented I feel that many diaries were left out.  Those of Kate Sperry, Julia Chase, and Portia Baldwin Baker to name a few, were not even mentioned.  As for the property damage, I myself have visited the area and know first hand that there was a severe amount of property damage, so where the authors claim originated I have no idea.  Also, if Milroy was so well liked why was he later jeered when he returned after the war on a more political agenda?<br />Another error noted early on is that the battle of McDowell took place over a one month period of time.  On page 25 the battle starts out in May and then moves into June on page 27.  If that's the case then this battle would be longer than history has documented.  Either the author clearly mixed up dates or the editor perhaps missed June for May in the final editorial draft.<br />I feel that more work could have been done in putting together a better bibliography.  The amount of research does not show through very well and I feel more primary source material other than more \\"Official Records\\" is needed.  Perhaps more from the \\"Devil Diarists\\" would be appropriate, and a more though look into Milroy's past would definitely help beef up the opening pages of this work.<br />All in all this work may be suited for those that have a good working knowledge of the battle but it's definitely not recommended as the sole source for any reader on the second battle of Winchester.d know first hand that there was a severe amount of property damage, so where the authors claim originated I have no idea.  Also, if Milroy was so well liked why was he later jeered when he returned after the war on a more political agenda?  <br />Another error noted early on is that the battle of McDowell took place over a one month period of time.  On page 25 the battle starts out in May and then moves into June on page 27.  If that's the case then this battle would be longer than history has documented.  Either the author clearly mixed up dates or the editor perhaps missed June for May in the final editorial draft.<BR>I feel that more work could have been done in putting together a better bibliography.  The amount of research does not show through very well and I feel more primary source material other than more \\"Official Records\\" is needed.  Perhaps more from the \\"Devil Diarists\\" would be appropriate, and a more though look into Milroy's past would definitely help beef up the opening pages of this work.<br />All in all this work may be suited for those that have a good working knowledge of the battle but it's definitely not recommended as the sole source for any reader on the second battle of Winchester.	2003-01-23
US	52842809	R121H5OLES7D8S	0738505080	380238777	Building the Mosquito Fleet: The U.S. Navy's First Torpedo Boats  (RI)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Naval History at it's Finest!	The building of the Mosquito fleet began with a blind man and his mechanically minded brother.  These two men, John Brown and Nathanael Greene Herreshoff both boat lovers began their careers when John Brown was commissioned to build a yacht for Thomas Clapham.  John Brown would dictate the design to his brother who would then turn the drawings into a model.  John would then go over the model with his hands to feel for defects and actually design the full size boat based upon his minds eye and his touch.  Thus the Herreshoff Manufacturing Company was born, a name synonymous with many a successful America's Cup defender.<br />  Building the Mosquito fleet was a most enjoyable book to read.  It's filled from cover to cover with original black and white photos, drawings, and first hand accounts.  The pictures truly add a touch of class to this work and allow the reader to fully understand what took place during the building process.  The picture of the 1893 Herreshoff steam engine on page 11 shows the simplicity yet durability of design and the side bar states that it?s still in operation 109 years later.  As you traverse your way through this book you will also appreciate the amount of research that the author put forth and it shows in his well-organized Bibliography.  One story to note is of Ens. Irving V. Gillis and his capture of a Spanish Schwartzkopf torpedo in 1898.  The story is fascinating and after reading you can actually go to the Naval War College Museum, at Newport's Naval Education and Training Center and ask to see the very same torpedo.<br />As it stands, this is a well written and researched work on the United States Navy's First Torpedo Boats and the author has done a beautiful job in putting the material together in such an interesting manner.  I highly recommend this book to fellow enthusiasts and Naval Buffs alike.	2002-10-07
US	52842809	RTU0XV6AKXU8X	0684849445	28979746	The Longest Night: A Military History of the Civil War	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Filled with Information	David Eicher has brought forth an exhausting work on the Civil War.  I say exhausting in that this book covers everything you can imagine and goes to the nth degree in detail.  This is not a work for the novice reader, and many a seasoned vetern may just want this work for reference only.<br />All in all a very though work on the Military History of the Civil War, but if you pick it up make sure you have plenty of time to sit and read it.<br />Four stars due to it's longevity and detail.  If it was rewritten I'd suggesst writing it more for the average reader.	2002-08-28
US	52842809	RL91U3RECU1JM	0195135210	436402699	Crossroads of Freedom: Antietam (Pivotal Moments in American History)	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Must read for historians	James McPherson has again dug deep into the past to pull out sources and material for his latest work.  Even though there is quite a bit of info about McClellan and others the main focus does stay with Antietam.  He just gives an over view to better set the tone for the reader so one is not confused as to what occured on 17 September 1862.<br />Very well done, easy to read and it's not filled with trivial detail  that would bog down the average reader.<br />Highly recommended!	2002-08-28
US	52842809	R20218224S5FJ1	1558536175	275927435	Gettysburg: The Paintings of Mort Kunstler	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Mort at his best	In talking with Mort I've come to realize the amount of work and detail he puts into every painting.  This book sheds some light on that detail with interesting sidebars on his prints.<br />The pictures are crips and the stories about them are quite intersting.  It's interesting to see his liberal use of the various histical data and how it was applied to find out more about the background of each print.<br />If you are a Mort Kunstler fan then this is the book for you.	2002-08-28
US	52842809	R3BLHTFUS25AM8	0873387082	76786017	The Business of Captivity: Elmira and Its Civil War Prisoners	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Death and sickness - Business as usual at Helmira	The question of captivity is often quite perplexing in any war and was quite so during the Civil War.  Author Michael P. Gray delves into this conundrum full force and shows what it was like to be held captive in the most heinous of northern jails, \\"Helmira\\" better known as Elmira.  His analysis shows that the proper handling of prisoners was more intricate than once believed and that captivity took on a life of it's own while setting forth new business principles behind the stockade walls.  Enormous amounts of food, staffing, lumber, clothing, paper, and every other item that is necessary to operate a prison is well documented with these pages.<br /> This book has been broken down into a chapter-by-chapter discovery of what occurred at Elmira just before, during and right after the Civil War.  It began as simple depot laid out to house soldiers as they prepared to go off to war.  Men arrived for training, were processed, feed, trained and sent off to battle.  With the troops moving off to fight, many barracks were left unoccupied and Asst. Adj. General Edward D. Townsend brought this situation to the attention of Commissary General Hoffman.  Hoffman believed these empty barracks could help alleviate overcrowding in Northern prisons and do so in a more economical fashion.<br />The train account discussed in the chapter 2 on \\"The Inauguration of Elmira Prison\\" really hits home on how past tragedies mirror what has occurred in our lives today.  The conductors, trying to make up for lost time were pushing their steam locomotives to the breaking point, and led travelers into harms way.  When the accident occurred one conductor was killed outright while the other slowly roasted to death.  The images brought to mind the horrors of recent train derailments and how we can be here one minute and gone the next.<br />As you follow this work you see how the lives of the men lost along with those that survived came together to form the common thread for this book.  This thread is how prisons, guards and suppliers formed the \\"Business of Captivity\\" The author goes into great detail, compiling primary source material along with excellent writing to bring forth a truly awesome work on Elmira.  The chapters are broken down into easy to read sections and build upon each other without dragging the reader through trivial details.  The average reader will appreciate it's easy to read format while the historian will appreciate the thoroughness of research and detail used in compiling the material for this book.<br />The myriad of difficulties in running a prison camp as a business are well laid out and it's hard to imagine the daily life and death struggle that took place when you begin reading about all the business ventures that took place within the stockade walls. The most ingenious were the trinkets that were produced by the prisoners to be sold within as well as outside the camp by prison guards.  The \\"Elmira Jewelry trade\\" was in full swing and supplied many a lady with finely crafted rings, necklaces and so forth made from bone, wood, animal hair, or any scrap that might have been missed by a previous \\"jeweler\\".<br />Rounding out this work is the chapter labeled \\"The Aftermath & the Legacy\\" that lays out in black and white the ultimate cost of prison life.  From July 1864 to July 1865, death and sickness became so commonplace that a separate business of transporting and interring the dead sprang up.  One man, an escaped slave, John W. Jones supervised the burial of all the Confederate prisoners at Elmira and made himself a tidy nest egg for after the war.  He became known as the wealthiest colored man in that part of the state.<br />\\"The Business of Captivity\\" has brought together sound research mirrored with quality writing to give the reader an enjoyable journey into prison life at Elmira.  Even the endnotes are filled with primary source material and each chapter has many quotes and references. Cover to cover the reader will discover that human interest has been successfully merged with historical research.  I highly recommend this book to anyone curious about fortifications and prisons during the Civil War.er that human interest has been successfully merged with historical research.  I highly recommend this book to anyone curious about fortifications and prisons during the Civil War.	2002-08-26
US	52842809	RFGF6VTLLFEBD	0743500474	305463091	Who Moved My Cheese : An Amazing Way To Deal With Change In Your Work And In Your Life	Books	4	0	2	N	Y	Good for those who follow	Now that I've used both the audio and book I can honestly say that this system is good for those willing to listen. You can only go so far with staffing that refuses to listen and participate.<br />You learn how to handle daily change mirrored with new tasks at hand.  The cartoons expressed are whimsical yet not too childish.<br />Good if you have willing participants!	2002-04-02
US	52842809	RYN9RAABRXTBF	0895872358	274581073	In the Footsteps of Robert E. Lee (In the Footsteps Series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Step by step....	Armchair historians and civil war enthusiasts, it's again time to arise from your La-Z-Boy recliners and hit the Civil War trail.  This time you will follow in the footsteps of Marse Roberts from his birth through his early days in the army to visiting the White House in 1869 when he payed a brief visit to President Grant.<br />With 11 states, Washington D.C. and the brief inclusion of sites in Mexico you will need to spend several weeks going from site to site.  However, the author breaks down the trips by state and gives excellent directions that will keep even the novice historian from loosing his way.  You will be taken to several larger, well-known sites in West Virginia and Virginia as well as many smaller sites within these states and distant states such as Texas, Missouri and Florida.<br />Many have been to Sharpsburg, Manassas or perhaps South Mountain but it's doubtful that few have made it Stratford Hall where Lee was born.  Therefore, it's fitting that the book starts out at Stratford Hall and gives brief insight into the life and lack of homeownership by Lee.  From his birth in 1807 to his death in 1870, he never owned a single place of residence.  He slept at his parents' home, army barracks, his wife's inherited house, and several homes borrowed from individuals during and after the war.  He never paid out of pocket for any property on which he resided.<br /><br />The research within these pages is top notch and gives the reader some excellent side bar material to whet his or her appetite for more on Robert E. Lee. The descriptions are concise and to the point and give just enough detail to allow the reader to understand how the specific location played a key role in shaping young Lee or perhaps how it effected his overall battle strategy in his later years. The accounts are well done and not overly detailed giving the average reader a nice foundation for a beginning study on Lee.  The chapters are well laid out, state by state, but in order to keep this data from filling several volumes it does not include every little site associated with Lee.  Not to worry, the author chose wisely and the selected material flows quite nice.<br /><br />In going through this work the reader will enjoy his or her journey into Lee's past with stops along the way at several key historic areas.  This is not a paperback for the hard-nosed historian, but well-done research for those interested in following in &quot;The Footsteps of Robert E. Lee&quot;.  Mr. Johnson has done it again and I highly recommend this book!this data from filling several volumes it does not include every little site associated with Lee.  Not to worry, the author chose wisely and the selected material flows quite nice.<BR> <BR>In going through this work the reader will enjoy his or her journey into Lee's past with stops along the way at several key historic areas.  This is not a paperback for the hard-nosed historian, but well-done research for those interested in following in &quot;The Footsteps of Robert E. Lee&quot;.  Mr. Johnson has done it again and I highly recommend this book!	2001-10-18
US	52842809	R2HQSD92NL8MQQ	1580970338	185471163	The Fredericksburg Campaign : October 1862-January 1863 (Great Campaigns Series)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Needs to be re-edited.	With Christmas season soon approaching, thoughts of home and a warm cozy spot by the fire may have surpassed any thoughts of war.  Longing perhaps for a slice of Mother's homemade pie or a brief letter from home describing the latest events, men, many cold, hungry, and miserable went about their duties awaiting orders from their commanders.  This terrible conflict showed no sign of ending and with the onset of colder weather, men dug in around Fredericksburg and waited. Both armies watching for signs of advance, until that fateful moment when General Ambrose E. Burnside, the unluckiest commander of the Civil War, took charge and laid forth a plan to cross the Rappahannock.<br />This complex plan if followed accordingly, would surprise General Robert E. Lee's Army of Northern Virginia and bring a swift end to the escalating conflict.  However, crossing the river in the midst of winter became a logistical nightmare and the delaying actions caused by the weather allowed Lee's troops to occupy strong positions overlooking the town such as Marye's Heights.<br />Union men were sent into battle as if lambs led to the slaughter.  Lead flew through the air like hoards of locusts during a plague, mowing down men where they stood.  Bodies piled up and the living took refuge behind walls of once living flesh.  Thumps of bullets could be heard as they entered the bloody makeshift walls as those clinging to life on the &quot;killing ground&quot; cried out for help.  Burnside sent wave after wave of men to their death and even tried to rally his commanders by claiming he would personally lead men to the fight and win the day!  He was finally persuaded to call of the attack with many of his troops lying on the cold bloody earth for the night.  The cries of the dying intermixed with the hoarse prayers of those passing from this earth.<br />As one begins reading this work you begin to realize that more editing was needed before publication.  The opening chapter of the book does a pretty good job of detailing the aftermath of Antietam.  It gives a good account of the 178th Pennsylvania and their slaughter at Shepherdstown, and how the Rebel forces pushed them back across the Potomac.  However, the 178th was not there - it was the 118th Pennsylvania, better known as the Corn Regiment from Philadelphia.  This is not to say that the entire book is filled with errors, the detail and research that went into battle statistics were in good order but to miss the proper labeling of the regiment so early in the work is somewhat disturbing.  Thorough editing would have picked up that key fact; alas it was not done.<br />The author does a good job in bringing the details of battle to light and carries the reader through the book at a nice pace without dulling the facts or swamping the reader with too much military tactics.  The maps are easy to follow and the sidebars on the commanders are informative.  I found the book to be enjoyable, but would like to see the book re-edited and hopefully brought back out in amended form.  As is, it's adequate for those interested in the Fredericksburg Campaign and will do fine as a secondary source to primary source material.pretty good job of detailing the aftermath of Antietam.  It gives a good account of the 178th Pennsylvania and their slaughter at Shepherdstown, and how the Rebel forces pushed them back across the Potomac.  However, the 178th was not there - it was the 118th Pennsylvania, better known as the Corn Regiment from Philadelphia.  This is not to say that the entire book is filled with errors, the detail and research that went into battle statistics were in good order but to miss the proper labeling of the regiment so early in the work is somewhat disturbing.  Thorough editing would have picked up that key fact; alas it was not done.  <br />The author does a good job in bringing the details of battle to light and carries the reader through the book at a nice pace without dulling the facts or swamping the reader with too much military tactics.   The maps are easy to follow and the sidebars on the commanders are informative.  I found the book to be enjoyable, but would like to see the book re-edited and hopefully brought back out in amended form.  As is, it's adequate for those interested in the Fredericksburg Campaign and will do fine as a secondary source to primary source material.	2001-10-09
US	52842809	R10AT08ORJD4TQ	1891852124	123041601	Images of the Civil War in West Virginia	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Top Shelf Work - Highly detailed	By reading the brief introduction one gains insight into the struggle that Terry Lowry and Stan Cohen endured during their research for this work.  Had it not for their intro the reader might have come away believing poor quality reproductions were used in compiling data for this book.  Many of the items used in this work were from private collections, some of which were too expensive or not open for publication by the authors.  Given the cost of reproduction these days, mirrored with the advanced age of the material used, both authors have come together to put fort an excellent work involving the war in West Virginia.<br />Even though some of the images are fuzzy the presentation of the material lends itself as a valuable resource for the modern day historian.  The book reads well and is actually quite durable for a paperback.  It's traveled back and forth from home to Antietam National Battlefield, more specifically Bloody lane, and has stood the test of traversing the fields.<br />From &quot;Secession&quot; to &quot;Carrying on the Memories&quot; the book flows smoothly through the various transitions of the newly formed state, giving the reader an excellent account of the turmoil of becoming a state.  Many actions in regards to statehood via images, sketches and maps are now seen in print for the first time.<br />With over 450 photographs, drawings, maps and images this book will fill the bill for many West Virginia historians.  The authors even note that more material has been unearthed so the possibility remains for a Volume II on West Virginia.  As it stands, this is a well-written and researched work on West Virginia and the authors have done a beautiful job in putting the material together in such an interesting manner.  Whether you hail from West Virginia or California this book has interesting snippets involving the Civil War for everyone. I highly recommend this book to fellow enthusiasts and civil war Buffs alike.	2001-10-09
US	52842809	R3F8PFEYABADWT	1579542417	114885171	Picture Perfect Weight Loss: The Visual Program for Permanent Weight Loss	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Pictures are worth 1000 calories	It's true, and with this book one can actually that pictures are worth 1000 calories.<br />Society today has a warped sense of portions due to the the restaurant industy loading plates with empty carbs in the way of pasta and over cooked rice!  This book gives you the EXACT portion size and actually debunks many of the old &quot;What tastes good is really bad&quot; for you.<br />Pick up a copy, and I'm sure you won't be dissapointed!  It's helped me in realizing just what a portion should like as well as what I can substitute in the way of carb vs. flavor.	2001-10-09
US	52842809	RE69FQ6BTFK25	0700606505	104610742	The Confederacy's Last Hurrah: Spring Hill, Franklin, and Nashville (Modern War Studies)	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Quality Research	This is a well researched book that deserves a prime spot on any Civil War Historians bookshelf.<br />John Bell Hood comes to life within these pages and one begins to truly undersand what drove the man and what lead to his bitter end as a commander in the Confederacy.<br />It's filled with human interest and rich in detail!	2001-09-13
US	52842809	R3IL34TS3DRWQ	087745759X	527908324	A Perfect Picture of Hell: Eyewitness Accounts by Civil War Prisoners from the 12th Iowa	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Eywitness Accounts!	The diaries, letters and speeches along with black and white photos truly complete this work and give insight into the &quot;hell&quot; that the men of the 12th Iowa went through.<br />Each account goes to the heart of the reader when it comes to looking into the past lives and accounts of these men.  A must read for Civil War enthusiasts as well as arm chair historians.	2001-09-13
US	52842809	R35ZBNEHY63CKO	0688112692	73141186	The Civil War Quiz Book	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Entertaining and informative!	From beginning to end this book is filled with all types of challenging questions.  Every major campaign and battle are covered.  So pick up a copy at Amazon.com and sharpen your History IQ!<br />How did Kentucky and Missouri differ from other states admitted by the Congress of the Confederacy?<br />Pick up a copy to find out!	2001-04-01
US	52842809	R1HUQIB4B2LSW8	0809001845	961716001	Official Secrets: What the Nazis Planned, What the British and Americans Knew	Books	4	7	19	N	Y	Repetitive but well researched	Like the reviewers before me I found this work very repetitive and light in areas of Nazi attrocities.  True, it discusses in overexacting detail the horrors inflicted upon the Jews but what about the non-Jewish children, Gypsies and others?  Why have their voices gone unheard?<br />The true picture of how the allies treated the refugees comes to light and will bring many to realize that the horrors of modern conflict are nothing more than mankind reliving the wrongs committed by those who came before us.  Those that forget the past are condemned to repeat it!<br />This work is somewhat confusing but filled with detail and is worth the effort to pick apart the excellent research within.	2001-04-01
US	52842809	R15DPDV8BI9DEN	0306806177	303603702	Battles Of The Revolutionary War: 1775-1781 (Major Battles and Campaigns ; 3)	Books	5	32	37	N	N	Good Book on battles and campaigns	If you are in the market for a good book on the major battles and campaigns of the Revolutionary Army then this is the book for you.  The author does an excellent job in describing each event without going to exacting detail and boring the reader.  If you do not get pulled into the war after reading this book then you need to reread it slowly to better absorb the knowledge within its pages.<br />I agree with another reviewer: &quot;This excellent piece of scholarship and tale of high deeds belongs on every enthusiasts bookshelf....&quot;<br />Pick up a copy at Amazon.com!	2001-04-01
US	52842809	RWJ8AHAX52HJS	1887901043	721688036	Stonewall Jackson at Gettysburg	Books	4	6	21	N	N	An intersting twist	This work provides an entertaining look into what may have transpired during the Battle of Gettysburg.  True, the outcome may have been different, but one can never really know.<br />I'm often asked, &quot;...what would Jackson have done at Gettysburg if he were alive.&quot;, and my response usually is, - &quot;Stink, since he'd been dead for a while&quot;.  Now there is at least one new senerio for the armchair historian to ponder.<br />Quite interesting and a fun read.	2001-04-01
US	52842809	R21282FOWK1AIL	0764552503	498461434	Cooking For Dummies (For Dummies (Computer/Tech))	Books	4	70	72	N	N	Take Baby Steps	This book was given to my wife as a wedding gift from a friend of ours.  She asked for it so she could better prepare herself for married life even though I prepare all the family meals.  She studied the book for two weeks in preperation for my birthday dinner and I must say - everything she cooked came out perfect.<br />The kitchen may have been a bit messier than normal but by following simple recipes my wife was able to prepare one of teh best meals I've ever eaten.  From the salad to the dessert each item was beautifully presented and lovingly prepared.<br />My only problem with this book was in regards to the equipment needed.  As Catering Director at Shepherd College I don't even use many of these items on a full time basis.  My recommendation is to read this chapter after you've skimmed the rest of the book and take to heart that the items listed are not nessesarily needed in every kitchen.<br />Over all a good book with some great recipes.  Pick one up and enjoy the new found freedom in the kitchen!	2001-04-01
US	52842809	R1XS9EDW7B65VP	0939631695	619124030	If the South Won Gettysburg	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Confederate Flag on the Moon?	This book takes the reader out on a limb and trys to build a hypothetical story as to the South winning the war starting at Gettysburg.<br />At least it was entertaining, at most it's a lively spin on events that actually took place with the addition of a more Southern slant on history.<br />Good for those with a vivid imagination and a thirst for &quot;What ifs&quot;	2001-04-01
US	52842809	RIB151OCL2N64	0399144463	305463091	Who Moved My Cheese?: An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life	Books	4	4	8	N	Y	Wake up and smell the Coffee!	Upon opening the pages of this slim volume I began to reveal the mystery of management and the details of interacting within core groups at work.  In essense the four main characters are easlty recognized in the workplace and will be manifested in your fellow employees.<br />The book is easy to follow but one that may be hard to actually put into play if your staff is unwilling to think outside the box.  All too often those that read it will point to those around them as the &quot;hems&quot; and &quot;haws&quot; without realizing that several of their fingers are pointing back at themseles.<br />It's not very profound reading; more so a staight foreward guidebook to becoming proactive instead of reactive.<br />I recommend this work to new managers and old managers alike.	2001-03-15
US	52842809	R3AUZJMM3KDMHY	0684839687	428043661	Hen Frigates: Wives of Merchant Captains Under Sail	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Excellent Accounts of the Sea	Joan Druett has put together fascinating stories about women that set sail  with their husbands.  Not only have their trials and tribulations been  recorded, but first hand accounts from diaries were beautifully interlaced  among the stories.<br />The illustrations are well done and I agree with  other reviews in that it was a hard book to put down.  The material was  well researched and very easy to read.	2000-09-10
US	52842809	R1W2JDDE8DSFFX	0785783946	510154831	What They Fought For, 1861-1965	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The common soldier	This work gives and excellent, all be it brief, look into the ideas behind  the Civil War.  It shows the willingness of men to remain to fight when all  hope was lost and die fighting for their cause.  The true sense of a man's  Patriotism shows forth in this book as well his loyalty to an oath and his  countries flag.<br />This is a short work and and can read in one sitting if  so desired.  It's flows well and is a good beginning for budding Civil War  buff as well as those who have trampled the grasses on many a battlefield.	2000-08-29
US	52842809	R1FXSOO5GMCXV6	0811718239	480082541	Unlikely Allies	Books	5	10	12	N	N	The truth be told!	With stories of men dying of disease, succumbing to the elements and living life from mouthful to mouthful one would think that Fort Delaware  was indeed the &quot;Andersonville of the North&quot;.  In its heyday over  16,00 men were held prisoner on this lonely island known as &quot;Pea  Patch&quot; with more than 30,000 Confederates passing through its gates in  just over three years.  Yet, the true story of life behind the stockade  walls was lost to history, until Mr. Fetzer and Mr. Mowday came together  and published &quot;Unlikely Allies&quot;.  By using newly found primary  source material the reader gains insight into the lives of those who had to  eke out an existent on the island.<br />Prior to the 1760's no written  account indicated that there was any stretch of land in the middle of the  Delaware River. However, around the same stretch of time, local legend has  it that a sailing vessel loaded with peas ran aground on an uncharted shoal  and spilled its contents into the Delaware. These peas found the small mud  flat to their liking and took root upon the shoal and pea patches began to  sprout.  As they continued to grow so did the island, giving rise to the  local name Pea Patch.<br />During an expedition to the area, Maj. Pierre  Charles L'Enfant, chief engineer of the U.S. Army looked out over the  Delaware River and settled his gaze upon the small bit of exposed mud and  sand, he came to call &quot;Pip Ash&quot; Island. After his brief exploit  to the island he wrote on 16 May 1794 to the secretary of war:  &quot; . .  .went to the Pip Ash a bank forming an island opposite Eagle and Reedy  Points.  This pass should be well armed . . . I recommend a fort on Pip  Ash, and batteries at New Castle . . ..&quot;  He further noted, &quot; .  . . it cannot be questioned but that pass may be well armed, and that  proper works erected there would protect the whole bank.&quot;  So, with  the wheels of defense set in motion, this desolate strip would be  transformed in a community that survived all that Mother Nature threw at  them, but the name Pip Ash was forgotten and the name Pea Patch stuck.<br />In  knowing little about Fort Delaware, and going off what I've briefly read I  had come to the conclusion that it was a harsh and bitter prison, but in  reality life was just about the same for the guards as it was for the  prisoners. Aside from the status of being labeled a prisoner, most everyone  on this little island was held captive.  Life was not pleasant but it was  tolerable. The death rate among POWs was equal to the death rate from  disease among civilians. Yet, life was not as bitter as stated by previous  residents.  True, some guards were ill mannered but overall the background  of material presented in this work shows that the guards handed out humane  treatment in most cases.  In looking at the words of one prisoner, a  Reverend Handly, he tells of comrades hanging by their thumbs, acute  starvation, and enforced labor, yet his wife was allowed to come to Pea  Patch and take up room and board at Mrs. Patterson's Inn and eventually  visit with him.  Not too bestial if you ask me.<br />This is a well-written  and researched work on Fort Delaware.  The authors put together sound  research mirrored with quality writing to give the reader an enjoyable  journey into the past. Cover to cover the reader will discover that human  interest has been successfully merged with historical research.  This work  reads well, was hard to put down, and did not drag on into over exacting  details and logistics. I highly recommend this book to anyone curious about  fortifications and prisons during the Civil War.ansformed in a community that survived all that Mother Nature threw at  them, but the name Pip Ash was forgotten and the name Pea Patch stuck.<br />In  knowing little about Fort Delaware, and going off what I've briefly read I  had come to the conclusion that it was a harsh and bitter prison, but in  reality life was just about the same for the guards as it was for the  prisoners. Aside from the status of being labeled a prisoner, most everyone  on this little island was held captive.  Life was not pleasant but it was  tolerable. The death rate among POWs was equal to the death rate from  disease among civilians. Yet, life was not as bitter as stated by previous  residents.  True, some guards were ill mannered but overall the background  of material presented in this work shows that the guards handed out humane  treatment in most cases.  In looking at the words of one prisoner, a  Reverend Handly, he tells of comrades hanging by their thumbs, acute  starvation, and enforced labor, yet his wife was allowed to come to Pea  Patch and take up room and board at Mrs. Patterson's Inn and eventually  visit with him.  Not too bestial if you ask me.<br />This is a well-written  and researched work on Fort Delaware.  The authors put together sound  research mirrored with quality writing to give the reader an enjoyable  journey into the past. Cover to cover the reader will discover that human  interest has been successfully merged with historical research.  This work  reads well, was hard to put down, and did not drag on into over exacting  details and logistics. I highly recommend this book to anyone curious about  fortifications and prisons during the Civil War.	2000-08-28
US	52842809	RA3GG3C2T3VJO	0912514485	206725349	True Tales of the Great Lakes	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Captivating Tales	Mr. Boyer tells a lively story and weaves his interest throughout this  work.  The tragedies of days gone by are beautifully written in this highly  entertaining book.<br />As one who enjoys sailing on Lake Erie as often as  possible, I can only hope I never succumb to the horrors of those since  past!  These stories are both captivating and thought provoking.	2000-08-20
US	52842809	R4OC2DGBOIOAW	0060977477	637283524	The Perfect Storm: A True Story of Men Against the Sea	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Ordinary men against and unforgiving sea	The Andrea Gail and the events that took place in October of 1991 are brought to bear on the reader by delving into the personal lives of the men  who sailed upon her.  The reader is thrust into the very essence of an  industry that supportes fishing under harsh and sometimes deadly  environment.<br />&quot;The Perect Storm&quot; details such a time and goes  to the very heart of those who were left behind as well as giving us new  respect for those lost in the storm tossed waters.<br />True, the book does  mix past tense with present and it does take you on a journey, spinning you  from time and place while developing the story.  However, it presents the  facts and gives the reader a chance to understand the life of a sword boat  captain and his crew.<br />Junger has given the reader a glimpse into the  lives of men who were doing their daily job, yet done in the face of  danger.  You will come away with a new found appreciation for these men and  those that follow suit.  I dare say you will not look upon a menu and see  swordfish without reflecting upon the printed words with the &quot;The  Perfect Storm&quot;.<br />It was very thought provoking and the amount of  research done shows through in the final work.  The errors in grammer and  jargon can be overlooked due to its' fast paced style and readability.  Take the time to read this book and do not skim over the contents to get to  the end.	2000-07-04
US	52842809	R329YA0PFE8T83	0070487030	933876697	Cruising Cuisine: Fresh Food from the Galley	Books	5	20	20	N	N	% Star Gourmet Cooking with flare!	Being landlocked for 50 weeks out of the year does little in stopping my efforts in looking for the perfect cookbook for the open seas.  I've finally found a must for my galley.<br />&quot;Cruising Cuisine&quot; is well  laid out and has easy to follow recipes with an inventory list to help you  pick and choose the spices you may need on board.  The many tips on  preparing and storage  come in handy and go far in helping you prepare for  your voyage, long or short.<br />This by no means is just for the sea, but at  home as well.  With more than 450 recipes your family and friends will be  anxiously awaiting new culinary treats to be transformed from black and  white text to mouth watering morsels of enjoyment!<br />Red sky at night -  sailors delight, red sky in the  morning, sailors - batten down the hatches  and head to the galley to prepare hot soup and a hearty stew.  Your crew  and their friends will thank you!	2000-07-04
US	52842809	R2STIW1UMSTGGP	0688143709	43563172	Prisoners of the Japanese: POWs of World War II in the Pacific	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Stunning Accounts of POW accounts	The horrors of POW life under Japanese rule during World War II are laid out in an all too familiar format.  I now understand why my grandfather has feelings of anger towards the men who carried out those evil deeds.  To  honor their men as the Japanese did is one thing, but to completely and  utterly destroy another man's dignity, his self respect, and then take his  life; well that's disturbing.<br />Yet, these stories need to be brought to  light, &quot;...for those that forget the past are condemned to repeat  it&quot;, and mankind would be in sorry shape if it were to forget the evil  done to men, women and children of all ages by the Japanese during W.W.  II.<br />The documentation and clarity of writing is superb and the limited  photos go far in enhancing the excellent writing within the covers of this  work.  It may be hard reading for many but it's reading that needs to be  done.  I highly recommend this book for any history buff, because the  lessons learned can transcend the ages.	2000-06-18
US	52842809	R2G6WMMDFH2JPI	0517194554	784497897	The Potomac	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Beautiful Photos	Not only beautiful photos of the river but of surrounding landmarks and places of historical interest.  This book would make a welcome addition to anyones library and will make an excellent conversation piece on a coffee  table.	2000-06-04
US	52842809	R3LIU3AV8222YL	1569120862	336397836	40-30-30 Fat Burning Nutrition: The Dietary Hormonal Connection to Permanent Weight Loss and Better Health	Books	5	83	86	N	Y	Awesome Weight loss and change of life!	I started this plan over one year ago, and I am now 2/3 the man I used to be.  I tipped the scales at over 320 pounds and have dropped 91 pounds to date through eating 40-30-30 and proper exercise.  The diet plan is easy  to follow and gives you more room for error than any other plan on the  market.  By that I mean it is easy for you to hop back on the plan if you  slip up one meal or even one or two days.  Once your body gets  &quot;Balanced&quot; you maintain your weight, with a ton of new found  energy.  You begin to burn fat instead of storing it and your cravings  become less and less a factor in dieting.<br />The addition of sample menus  completes this easy to follow change in eating and helps keep you on track  and focused.  This book has fat flush meals, vegetarian fat flush meals and  plain old 40-30-30 balanced meals, so pick one and get started.  I won't  kid you, the first few weeks were rough but after that the plan melted off,  on average, 10 pounds per month and I'm still dropping pounds and inches  with only 9 pounds to my goal weight.  I've gone from a XXXL and XXL to an  XL and from 46-48 pants to 36-38 pants.  My heart rate at rest is 48 and my  blood pressure is 116/72.  I eat balanced meals and snacks when I want and  exercise 4-5 times weekly, and my new found favorite snack is a  &quot;Balance&quot; bar.  I still have difficulty with Carbs, so I eat them  before heading to the gym, and use that extra energy as a boost for a  better workout!<br />This plan is awesome and comes highly recommended by me.  Just watch your pocket book, because when you drop as much weight as I have  a new wardrobe is a much needed and more than welcome expense!	2000-06-01
US	52842809	R1EIQBE2SEUC7A	0380727293	183030674	Dr. Atkins' New Diet Revolution	Books	2	15	28	N	N	Not Balanced	In looking at this diet and those of others I choose the 40-30-30 plan over Atkins and have lost over 90 pounds on that diet.  The Adkins diet plan does not &quot;Balance&quot; out your meals, but sets you up in a  planned eating arena of low carbs, high fat and protein.  As soon as you go  off the diet plan then back comes the weight.<br />Along with proper diet  comes exercise, but that's not stressed enough in Adkins diet.  The book is  wordy and needs to get to the point, and it's my recommendation that if  purchased be prepared for a constant &quot;Atkins plan&quot; in your life.	2000-06-01
US	52842809	R2O75EAZV6DMDL	089587184X	569112151	Touring Virginia's and West Virginia's  Civil War Sites (Touring the Backroads)	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Well written overview for budding historians	You are about to embark on a journey to many places untouched by modern man, giving you a glimpse of the past mirrored with stories and brief histories of battles long since silenced by time.  As you open this book  you will be begin your Civil War trek at Manassas, stopping at the National  Battlefield and it's museum.  From there you will work counterclockwise  around Virginia and West Virginia, through one historic site to the next,  stopping sometimes at battlefields, other times at simple out-of-the-way  museums or perhaps nothing more than a few relics ravaged by nature.<br />Each stop is clearly marked on easy-to-read maps accompanied by side  notes or script detailing the historical significance of the stop.  My particular favorite is the Harpers Ferry tour where the author gives an  interesting overview of the town along with a brief account of how West  Virginia became a state.  Although one could spend days going over the  surrounding historical sites the author does not drag you into detail after  detail, but gives you a brief synopsis of what occurred.  Coming from  someone who has visited this site many times I've become very familiar with  the back-roads and sights to see, and Mr. Johnson does a fine job in taking  you around to many of those same areas.  However, this book won't give you  the detail you need to understand every site, but that can be obtained from  the Harper's Ferry National Park visitor center, or by taking a ranger  guided tour of the town.<br />By using this book the average reader will  enjoy his journey into the past with stops along the way at several key  historic areas.  This is not a book for the well-read historian or a  tactical study on terrain and warfare, but simply a good book for those  mildly intrigued by the Civil War.  It may serve to whet their appetite and  further their desire for more research.<br />If you purchase this book and  choose to go forth, your trek will take you to numerous battlefields, both  small and large.  It is my hope that you will leave with a better  understanding of what took place during that bloody struggle we now call  the Civil War.  So, in finishing your journey you will find yourself as did  Lee and the Army of Northern Virginia, in a quiet little place known as  Appomattox Court House.  &quot;This is a quiet reverent place, the spot  where one country died and another was reborn.&quot;h  small and large.  It is my hope that you will leave with a better  understanding of what took place during that bloody struggle we now call  the Civil War.  So, in finishing your journey you will find yourself as did  Lee and the Army of Northern Virginia, in a quiet little place known as  Appomattox Court House.  &quot;This is a quiet reverent place, the spot  where one country died and another was reborn.&quot;	2000-05-26
US	52842809	R1M6YDNIJDFW9W	0670868043	850510510	The American Heritage New History of the Civil War	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great Work!	The high level of detail mirrored with beautiful photos, maps and stories fills the volume with incredible amounts of material relating to the Civil War.  It flows well and gives the reader an excellent source for research  or simply to glance over key area of interest involving all aspects of the  conflict.<br />True, the lesser known generals and battles are not discussed  at length but if they were it would require at least three more volumes  this size to do them justice.  Use the Official Records to further advance  your knowledge on minor battles and the commanders of the day.<br />This book  is an excellent addition to the Historians bookshelf and one in which I'm  sure will get constant use.	2000-05-07
US	52842809	R26K2TOSNQX2EW	1561382876	43103337	The Civil War Cookbook	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Civil War Cookery	Simple foods from a by gone era that are easy to prepare, and interesting to learn about while cooking.  This cookbook gives the average reader a flare for more homespun tastes.<br />This book includes not only authentic  recipes, but  the background on the style and variations of many of them.<br />Very informative and enjoyable to read.	2000-05-02
US	52842809	RF6A38PDS3B9J	0471120170	669664524	Moosewood Restaurant Cooks for a Crowd: Recipes with a Vegetarian Emphasis for 24 or More	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Healthy Cooking Vegetarian Style!	This is the ultimate book on cooking vegeterian entrees.  It's based on volume but don't let that scare you away.  With a few simple reductions you are on your way to preapring some of the most mouth watering, vegetarian  items from the tried and true recipes of the Moosewood Restaurant.<br />The  recipes are easy to follow and will come in handy in large scale kitchens.  The new trends are involving clients that not only know their food but  demand quality and consistency while maintaining a healthy diet.  This book  will help you meet those demands, and set new standards for your vegetarian  items.<br />Pick it up and give it a whirl.  It's a great book for home or  your production kitchen.	2000-05-02
US	52842809	R2DPE2VSEQJ7PJ	0471286796	648348053	The New Professional Chef (TM)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Mise En Place	As the Catering Director of Shepherd College, I find myself using this book quite frequently.  It has everything in it; from outlining of options for the Professional Chef to the detailed glossery of food items and culinary lingo.<br />This book has the specifics right down to variations of  the same recipe.  Cover to cover this book is worth more than triple it's  weight in truffles.  The very essense of Western Cuisine is to be found  right here.<br />It offers the budding Chef or casual gourmet a chance to  challenge his skills and hone his craft on a variety of recipes. You get  the basics followed up by pictures and detailed instruction and further  support with recipes that are outlined  from start to finish.<br />Every  Chef, Professional or Amateur needs a copy of this book close at hand.	2000-05-02
US	52842809	RKIH9LJXHNV57	0471288543	264365305	Large Quantity Recipes, Fourth Edition	Books	5	47	47	N	Y	Bulk Preparation at it's best!	This cookbook is an invaluable resource for my catering department as well as a basis for recipes for my culinary class.  They are easy to follow and have both Metric and U.S. measurements for ease of conversions.<br />Since  purchasing this book, I've enjoyed preparing many epicurean delights from  within it's pages.  I've been able to provide nutritious, eye pleasing  meals for over 300 along with scaling several recipes down to meet the  dietary needs of only 20 to 30 guests.<br />Cooking in bulk is a snap with  this book, because it takes the guesswork out of the kitchen!	2000-04-29
US	52842809	R4W7ZGP5IRSMV	0891416242	763006949	The Biographical Dictionary of World War II	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent Reference Work	Students, teachers, and researchers will find this an invaluable tool in their study of World War II. This is the most complete and up-to-date work, including over 1,000 personalities from the war.<br />Mr. Boatner put together  a well laid out reference  manual, with an exceelent glossery for help in  identifying terms.  This book needs to be a required tool for every  researcher or student of World War II.	2000-04-28
US	52842809	R1N52R37H3IDMK	0345359429	345581260	Battle Cry of Freedom:  The Civil War Era	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Prize Winning Chronicle!	James McPherson's has doen a beautiful job in weaving together the entire Civil War and putting it all down in an easily understandable format.  Not only is this an excellent volume for Civil War buffs but for Civil War  novices as well.  It flows so effortlessly through material that you get  caught in the thick of the war without ever lifting a finger to the  fight.<br />The detail and clarity of vision when it comes to both Union and  Confederate Generals is remarkable and the overview of battles is filled  with informative data and lacks the usual trivial detail that many writers  throw in for filler.  Not only does McPherson do justice to the the common  soldier and his generals, but the common folk as well.<br />There is simply  not enough space to go into the detail needed to describe how well this  book plays into the realm of Civil War studies.  I highly recommend this  book for even those with a mild interest in the Civil War. It reads well  and is an excellent research tool for those needing background material on  the war.	2000-04-28
US	52842809	R2DL7YHSHRGCAI	0306807939	684879859	The Encyclopedia Of The Third Reich	Books	5	4	6	N	N	From A to Z!	Very informative and filled with historical photos along with fascinating articles from the Third Reich.  Some minor areas could use more detail, but the over all look is excellent.  Truly the &quot;...definitive reference  source...&quot; on the Third Reich.<br />This book is a must for students and  historians of World War II.	2000-04-28
US	52842809	R18EASEZEM1HXS	0195085493	914103003	Why the Confederacy Lost	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Scholarly and informative.	Mr Boritt does an outstanding job in bringing together several noted historians under one roof.  Each author goes to the key underlying tones and brings the reader right to the point without dragging him through  endless studies of tactics and military leadership.<br />This work is well  balanced and sheds light into a subject that is often talked about but very  rarely on an educated playing field.  Too often basic tactics and strategy  are molded together using 20th Century research methods to explain past  issues and ideals.  This work does not suffer from that finite method of  study.<br />The &quot;. . .hard-won triumph of the North was far from  inevitable.&quot;  How very true!  This book is a must for every Civil War  bookshelf.	2000-04-13
US	52842809	R1STLATMBJRIKP	0306802554	950335614	The Civil War Day By Day: An Almanac, 1861-1865 (Da Capo Paperback)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Daily Account	This book has been used so many times at the battlefield information desk that the cover is ready to fall off and the pages to splay out across the desk.<br />The daily accounts are brief yet informative and go far in giving  the reader background material for a more researched dig into the past.  The index is well laid out and gives the reader an excellent time line to  help locate material, and the bibliography is on par with the index!<br />Your  Civil War book shelf would not be complete without it!	2000-04-13
US	52842809	R1FJCETKQFBZND	0688112706	581546019	Dirty Little Secrets: Military Information You're Not Supposed To Know	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Secrets still remain secret	Even though the title promises you insight into military information pertaining to World War II, it leaves you straining to find it with it's pages.  Overall, the work is interesting and flows quite well, but the  facts are not that eye opening and seem at times more trivial than  informative.<br />The facts are laid out in an easy to follow format, most of  which can be obtained through casual surfing on the net these days.  However, if you are interested in a compilation of stories, trivia, and a  few &quot;secrets&quot; then this is the book for you.	2000-04-13
US	52842809	RKMWARQA04MK1	0807120812	881270447	Voices of D-Day: The Story of the Allied Invasion Told by Those Who Were There (Eisenhower Center Studies on War and Peace)	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	Good Testimonial to D-Day	The story of the invasion is laid out beautifully before the reader as seen through the eyes of those who were there.  The accounts are quite vivid and give the reader a succinct discription of D-Day.<br />Men rose up  and took charge while others shirked their duties.  Young boys barely men,  lost their lives and friends witnessed comrades being blown to bits before  their very eyes.  Yet, the will of the men was to persevere, and on they  came.<br />The accounts take us back to that fatefull time and allows the  reader to see into the horrors of war.  The only addition, if any to this  work, would be stories of those from the Axis side of the battle; along  with a few smatterings of what took place in the lives of these men after 6  June 1944.<br />A enjoyable book to read that flows quite nicely. Highly  recommended!	2000-04-13
US	52842809	R23L9P1CWYD5LG	0020345542	373172310	Great Battles of the Civil War	Books	2	9	14	N	N	Needs Work...	From the looks of the cover one would think there would be a great amount of detail and research within these pages.  However, upon reading it you will be taken for a loss and need to refer back to the Official Records or  State Regimental records.<br />There are too many errors to list, and the 3-D  terrain effect is not very helpful, but the historical snapshots are nice.	2000-03-31
US	52842809	R2HZ9TE7WLMM6W	0963899309	475475091	Pickett's Charge	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Excellent Accounts!	The eyewitness accounts are quite informative and go to great lengths in describing the horrors of war.  Both sides of the war are well represented without favoritism or slanted journalism.  The book moves along at a nice pace and doesn't bog you down in over-detailed research.<br />The nice feature  of this work is the addition of reference notes in the text; making it easy  to find the original notation.<br />Richard Rollins has done a superb job in  putting this book together.	2000-03-05
US	52842809	R1VOSKIT744Z7F	1558533664	697001485	More Civil War Curiosities: Fascinating Tales, Infamous Characters, and Strange Coincidences	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Even more Curiosities!	The unusual and the bizzare are the continual trademarks of this work. The stories are lively, interesting and even thought provoking.<br />The work takes you outside the realm of modern textbooks to give you the inside scoop of the Civil War.  A truly fascinating read!	2000-03-05
US	52842809	R1PDIX4SLD7WAW	155853315X	1657211	Civil War Curiosities: Strange Stories, Oddities, Events, and Coincidences	Books	5	44	46	N	N	Curiosity Abounds!	This work was fascinating to read and was neither over dramatic or under written.  The stories were lively and interesting and the additon of old photos and draqwings helped fill out the book.<br />This book won't bog you down in heavy reading, but it will liven your interest in the odd  coincidences of the Civil War!	2000-03-05
US	52842809	R1VJWQJAF7KLJM	0060924454	302078223	A Battle from the Start: The Life of Nathan Bedford Forrest	Books	5	6	9	N	N	A Southern Commander at his best!	Brian Steel Mills as brought forth an enticing work on the life of Nathan Bedford Forrest.  He's held back nothing in this work and really tells it like it is.  The episodes of Forrest's life are brought to light and in remarkable clarity without the dullness of over dramatic writing.<br />From  Forrest's early days to his failing health, this work gives the reader keen  insight into the man and his legend.  A truly remarkable work that was  absorbing and enjoyable to read.<br />I highly reccomend this book to Civil  War scholars and history buffs alike.	2000-03-05
US	52842809	R3DITMUUX9DKXM	0060931094	250458355	The Battle History of the U.S. Marines: A Fellowship of Valor	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Semper Fidelis	Colonel Joseph H. Alexander has brought forth an outstanding book on &quot;The Battle History of the United States Marine Corps&quot;.  His skill in writing is further enhanced by his selection of photos, maps, and  sketches, and the inclusion of sidebar stories gives the reader more  &quot;meat and potatoes&quot; in regards to the men and machines of  war.<br />Col. Alexander's manner of writing and attention to detail brings  you up close and personal without over-glorifying battle.  The narratives  as well as true-life events are quite captivating, and will hold your  interest from beginning to end.  It's refreshing to note that the book does  not bog down in trivial detail, but keeps moving right along taking the  reader from one account to the next.<br />Upon finishing I would recommend  getting a copy of &quot;A Fellowship of Valor&quot; on VHS tape, to  accompany the book.  Both are extremely well done and give you the very  essence of the USMC.<br />This one book says it all when it comes the United  States Marine Corps!	2000-02-28
US	52842809	R35WRBSS74N7GL	0195090233	965727335	For Cause and Comrades: Why Men Fought in the Civil War	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Why men fought	James McPherson has brought together thousands of letters along with over 200 diaries in a wonderfully done book on why men fought during the war.  When walking upon the fields of battle it's hard to believe that many  regiments continually advanced into overwhelming fields of fire.  What  prompted these men into action, and better yet, what causes were they  fighting?  Their motivation was religion, as well as duty and honor.<br />This book answers those questions in an easy to read epigrammatic  format.  McMherson's analysis has brought forth an outstanding work in  regards to the sacrifices put forth during the Civil War. I highly  recommend this book for budding historians as well as the serious  researcher.  It's both captivating and thought provoking.	2000-02-27
US	52842809	R11CP02QEMVYTT	0895264528	723449113	Lee vs. McClellan: The First Campaign	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Campaign in (West) Virginia - 1861	After listening to Clayton Newell during one of his many speaking engagements I went out and purchased this book.  The anaylsis of General Robert E. Lee vs. George B. McClellan is both riviting and thought  provoking - cover to cover.  In 1861 both sides had little in the way of  experienced officers who commanded higher than the regimental level, yet  these two men took up that challenge and the end results are still being  debated to this day.<br />The author does an outstanding job in analyzing  their strength's and weaknesses, along with their usage of junior officers.  This analysis along with snippets of little known historical facts make  this a most enjoyable book to read.  Coming from a state born of this  conflict, the studies within these pages hits real close to home!	2000-02-27
US	52842809	R1LXX8R6JWH08V	0140261540	749018676	The Soldiers' Tale: Bearing Witness to a Modern War	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Through the eyes of those who fought	Samuel Hynes background as a Marine bomber pilot in World war II helped intensify his focus in bringing &quot;Soldier's Tale&quot; to life.  His keen eye for detail and brilliant anaylsis of human experiecnce makes this  a fascinating read.<br />The accounts bear witness to the difficulties men  faced in World War II and Vietnam and is a discovery of mankind and how  they act and react during times of intense struggle.<br />The accounts,  filled with fear, anger, frustration and courage must be remembered and not  just stored away on some dusty shelf.  Within these pages you stare face to  face into the brutal reality of survival versus death, and walk away with a  glimpse into what it was like for those who were there.	2000-02-27
US	52842809	RBQ89A3MDQSAE	0393046710	46961500	Hitler: 1889-1936 Hubris	Books	5	55	63	N	Y	Excellent Biography	Through Ian Kershaw's masterful use of all available sources, including primary and secondary source material he has put together a most intriguing study on one of the many men that shaped the 20th century.  From a small  Austrian village to the promulgation of the Nuremberg laws, this book takes  the reader through Hitler's rise to power - one of epic  proportions.<br />Kershaw's keen sense of understanding mixed with detailed  research has brought forth a well documented book; one that's beautifully  laid out and easy to use as a research tool.  The chapters, &quot;list of  works cited&quot; along with &quot;notes&quot; help the reader to go back  into the annals of history to locate the material used in this work.  This  work outlines his beginnings and uses previously unpublished material to  take you into the minds of those closest to him.<br />Hitler was a masterful  speaker and used his talents to build up the citizens of Germany giving  them what they desired - self worth, obligation and a sense of duty.  Germany was crying out to be rescued from a post war depression; so he took  the country by the throat and pulled it from the ashes to rise like a  majestic phoenix.<br />Adolf Hitler -  a little known corporal from World  War I, who believed he survived a mustard gas attack by divine  intervention, rose to power and unleashed the might of the German army unto  the world.<br />This book is a remarkable achievement and my hat is off to Mr  Kershaw for all his hard work.  This is an excellent biography filled with  insight!	2000-02-27
US	52842809	R95EQ6W4XWNJL	0684836424	671275084	Ernie Pyle's War; America's Eyewitness to World War II	Books	5	33	33	N	Y	A tribute to Ernie Pyle	I first became aware of Ernie Pyle as a young lad when I ran across a dusty old paperback in my grandparents attic.  I voraciously devoured each page only to be saddened when I realized he never made it home from the  war.<br />Here is a wonderful tribute to Ernie and his easy going manner  mirrored with his elequent style of writing.  From the absense of life,  back through his lifes struggles, this work is a journey into Ernie's life.  It will bring back floods of memories from older readers and give new  readers insight into a great journalist who was taken from us in the prime  of his career.<br />Ernie's manner of writing was a joy to read and Tobin has  done a superb job in relaying his stories in regards to the common man, and  the private soldier.	2000-02-27
US	52842809	R2Y4OEWP8DK70M	0399519092	542055732	In their own words: civil war commanders	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Hear from those who fought the battles	From Bull Run to Appomattox this books beautifully  illustrates the very thoughts of the men who commanded during the Civil War.  Mr. Stiles has put together a well researched collection of narratives to portray a  &quot;minds eye&quot; view of these men before and after battle.<br />By using  first hand accounts the reader will be thrust into the mind of the  Commander; not a brief overview of battle using the finite eye of 20th.  Century hindsight.<br />This book delves into the mundane routine of army  life from a leaders point of view, and from there, goes into the moral  convictions these officers faced after having  committed their men to  battle.  To further assist the reader, the author includes 40 maps to  accompany the words upon the page.<br />Upon finishing this work it will be  hard not to reflect on the frailty of mankind and how it flowed over into  the failure of command during battle.<br />A must read for insight into the  minds of both Union and Confederate officers.	2000-02-21
US	52842809	R31FJK4LOGV0GA	0684856298	996959617	The VICTORS : Eisenhower and His Boys: The Men of World War II	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A tribute to Ike!	A truly awesome book on Ike and his men!  From the very beginning of World War II to the overrunning of Germany, Mr Ambrose describes the very essense of Ike.<br />The accompanying photos add even more to the life of this work.  Well done Mr. Ambrose!	2000-02-21
US	52842809	R3QHF5VT5S5IKH	081172980X	496103006	Vicksburg: 47 Days of Siege	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Heart Felt Struggle!	This book is a fascinating study on the siege of Vicksburg.  The chapters are well defined and easy to read with a closing chapter of photos and documents to give the reader additional understanding of the terrible  struggle.<br />The first hand accounts grip you as you begin the book and  hold your interest to the very last page.  It's about real people who lived  through very difficult and all too often, deadly times of war.<br />The only  minor setback to this wonderful book is the lack of an index.  It does  however, give you two pages of data describing those with the book, as well  as a glossary for anyone unfamiliar to Civil War terminology.<br />A thought  provoking read that's well worth the extra effort of indexing if needed for  research.	2000-02-20
US	52842809	R3KRRBUPRF0JZZ	0807845698	280997998	Two Great Rebel Armies: An Essay in Confederate Military History (Civil War America)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	One side or another?	The title definately underscores how masterful Mr. McMurray has been in detailing the main differences between the Army of Northern Virginia and The Army of Tennessee.  From the basics of command on through key strategy  and deployment, both armies are beautifully dissected by McMurray's  research, mirrored with an easy to understand style of writing.<br />This book  not only discusses how important the upper command structures were to both  armies but how the various infrastructures such as railroads, food supply,  communication and weapons production differed from east to west.<br />This  book can be summed up as an impressive literary study of the two great  armies.  It sheds light on the many differences as well as similarities and  gives the reader new insight into the complex study of military  history.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in an intense  study of both armies.<br />Well done Mr. McMurray!	2000-02-20
US	52842809	R30O10B6NT33WU	0679768823	393362096	Days of Defiance: Sumter, Secession, and the Coming of the Civil War	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Times gone by...	Maury Klein does a superb job of detailing the events that lead up to the Civil War, and gives the reader some excellent background material in regards to the political viewpoints of the day.<br />The book was very easy to  read and flowed smoothy from one chapter to the next.  You don't get bogged  down in trivial matters nor does the author drag on with the usual rhetoric  of modern day thought superimposed on past issues.  His high level of  detailed research shows through in every chapter.<br />A very well done book,  that deserves a spot on your list of &quot;must reads&quot; in regards to  the Civil War.	2000-02-13
US	52842809	R7SJHE7L6NQ93	1853673250	742610525	German Secret Weapons of the Second World War: The Missiles, Rockets, Weapons, and New Technology of the Third Reich	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Weaponry of War	This is a very technical book written on a level that many may feel is over their heads.  At times it reads as if it were a manual of the weaponry or perhaps an instruction sheet guiding users on the specifics of  implementation during war.<br />This work has some interesting detail, but  it's hard to overlook the misspelled German throughout the book.  Had this  book been written in a more &quot;laymans&quot; approach it would have been  a much easier and more enjoyable read.<br />Overall, one of painstaking  research, but also one of difficult reading.	2000-02-13
US	52842809	RJZFR6M60V9VX	0811706729	648930455	From Winchester to Cedar Creek	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Good analysis of the Shenandoah Campaign	An excellent narrative of the campaign.  It's as if the thoughts of Philip H. Sheridan and Jubal A. Early were downloaded into print.<br />The details of battle are refreshing and go far into showing how these commanders  handled themselves and their men in battle.  Not only has the military  aspect of the campaign been supported and thoughly researched, but the  civilian population as well.  Also, the statistics on both sides have been  balanced to give proper respect to the men without playing favorites to one  cause or another.<br />Old Abe owed much to Sheridan for his victories over  Early.  The President road into the Whitehouse on the coat-tails of these  victories, and this book describes them in excellent detail.<br />This book  comes highly recommended and a must for your Civil War collection!	2000-02-13
US	52842809	R3UFBNO14JHNB0	1572491027	523939780	Battle of Antietam: The Official History by the Antietam Battlefield Board	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Antietam Battle told in tablets from Battlefield	Almost 28 years passed before an Act of Congress on 30 August 1890, approved money to survey, locate, and preserve the lines of battle of the Army of the Potomac and the army of Northern Virginia at Antietam.  This  book gives the specifics of the endeavor and relates it to the reader in a  format befitting those early historians, Generals Henry Heth of the  Confederacy and Ezra A. Carmen of the Union.<br />These two men were  instrumental in the overall effort of studying the field and movements of  the troops, then transforming this information onto iron tablets which were  erected upon the hallowed grounds.<br />Maps and pictures illustrate the  specifics of not only the tablets at Antietam, but Shepherdstown, Harpers  Ferry and South Mountain as well.  In the case of Shepherdstown, only two  of the five tablets still remain and they are in poor condition and in need  of repair.  If it were not for this publication, one would have to dig  through the National Archives to gather the data on the three missing  tablets.<br />This work is an invaluable research tool for the modern  historian/archivist as well as interesting reading to the casual Civil War  buff.  Having the script of every tablet at your finger tips is a valuable  resource.	2000-02-06
US	52842809	R103U0A2RKIDB6	0688168450	15215003	Nothing Less Than Victory: The Oral History of D-Day	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Of Men and Battle	Men and machine were combined to form one of the most awesome military operations the world has ever seen.  On 6 June 1944, this power was unleashed upon Nazi Germany in such a manner that books, stories and  documentaries are still being written as if the battle had just been  fought.<br />This book goes even deeper, using accounts from both sides of the  war to portray the feelings of those in battle.  Statistics on the  projected wounded, killed and missing meant nothing to the men on that day.  Their sole purpose was to carry out their orders and survive to someday  make it home to their loved ones.<br />In Mr. Miller's foreword he relates of  trying to get those he interviewed to tell of what if felt like to be at  Normandy, and what was going through their heads as they approached the  beaches.<br />This book is refereshing in that the author hits his mark and  works to portray both sides of the struggle by detailing what the men felt,  and not just their reflections on the battle or military strategy.  As you  progress through the book you will find that the author has done just that  and more.  It's a &quot;riveting soldier's-eye view of the deadly confusion  of battle . . . a significant contribution to military and D-Day  literature.&quot;<br />&quot;Nothing Less than Vistory&quot; is quite moving  and comes highly recommended to those interested in first hand accounts  detailing the leadup and subsequent invasion of Normandy.	2000-02-06
US	52842809	RKFQM0HHRSXMH	0671671561	875315522	Pegasus Bridge: June 6, 1944	Books	5	83	86	N	Y	A bridge once forgotten.	Stephen Ambrose has done a remarkable job in giving the reader a front row seat to the fighting at Pegasus Bridge.  His writing takes you right to the action and flows over into the heat of battle as if you were there at the  time of the attack.<br />He vividy describes the training leading up to the  assault on bridge in such detail that you may need to set aside the book to  rest, and catch your breath from the rigors of the last double time  march.<br />Even though this aspect of the invasion (Pegasus Bridge)  encompasses such a small area, the high level of detailed research lends  itself to a wonderful account of the early morning hours of 6 June  1944.<br />This book is very easy to read and is a must for those intrigued by  the battle that took place at this simple bridge over the Caen Canal  in the Norman countryside.	2000-02-06
US	52842809	R18X7PRM4IGK2N	0395740126	65655727	The Civil War Battlefield Guide, Second Edition	Books	4	23	23	N	N	Battlefield Synopsis	This book lends itelf as a nice companion to any serious volume of research on the Civil War.  It is not meant to be used as the sole study on specific battles but more so as a synopsis of what took place upon the  battlefield.<br />When used in conjunction with other works it's a great  read and by itself it will give insight into the struggle that took place  all across our Nation.<br />The essays and maps are well done and to the  point.  However, don't rely upon these articles if you are planning on  doing in depth tours or studies of the battles.  Use this work as an  overview of the action and then go out and enjoy the talks, lectures and  battlefield literature.  If there is no park then look online for books  pertaining to your interests.<br />Overall, his book is well written and is  recommened for those interested in brief essays of over 350 civil war  battles.	2000-02-06
US	52842809	R35MY7MG2HNTDH	0807823791	781049187	Pickett's Charge in History and Memory (Civil War America)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Central Moment in History	With new books on the Civil War hitting the stands every day it's nice to see that hard nosed research with attention to detail is still alive.  Carol Reardon has brought forth past memories, mirrored with a modern day  look at Pickett's charge.  As the book unfolds, her style of writing lends  itself to a wonderful portrayal of the efforts made to fully understand  what happened on 3 July 1863.<br />No matter what the outcome, American  lives were lost during a bitter struggle at a time when brother fought  against brother.  This book, unlike others that try to de-bunk the stories  and battle statistics, goes to the heart of the matter.  Truly remarkable  and most enjoyable to read!<br />This book is well worth reading and rates as  one of the top Civil War books needed on your library shelf.<br />Well done!	2000-01-30
US	52842809	R3ID1O3AK08NVN	0446515949	485023176	The Class of 1846: From West Point to Appomattox : Stonewall Jackson, George McClellan and Their Brothers	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Giants among Men	The class of 1846, by John Waugh is simply magnificent!  Men such as George. B. McClellan, George E. Pickett, A. P. Hill, Thomas J. Jackson, and Jesse L. Reno came together forming the class of 1846.  From diverse,  sometimes humble beginnings, through their studies and training at West  Point, on into death, the author does a outstanding job at vividly  portraying the relationships between these famous men.<br />As you begin your  journey through each chapter, the individual lives touched upon by the  Civil War unfold for a glimpse into their past.  Each man forever linked by  the bond of brotherhood, choose their own destiny after West Point.  This  book beautifully illustrates the decisions that shaped these men, and where  it took them.<br />One interesting item, among many within these pages, was  that Charles Seaforth Steward graduated at the head of the class of 1846,  but only attained the rank of Colonel - and that occured after the war.  It's this attention to detail that makes this a truly fascinating book to  read, and quite hard to put down!<br />I highly recommend this book for  history buffs and scholars alike.	2000-01-30
US	52842809	R1CDGUSHBYPO02	0700607846	331400664	Guide to the Battle of Antietam	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Off the Beaten path - Antietam National Battlefield	If you are interested in the Maryland campaign of 1862, this is the book for you!  It includes South Mountain, Crampton's Gap, Harpers Ferry and a good bit of detail on Shepherdstown.<br />Unlike the Gettysburg guide this  book outlines the campaign on an &quot;operational&quot; as well as  &quot;tactical&quot; level.  Both of which are easy to understand and  follow along if you desire to use this book as a battlefield guide.<br />The  driving directions along with detailed maps, historical photos, and reports  taken from the Official Records make this book a complete tour and  reference package!<br />If you require an outstanding volume of work  detailing nearly every aspect of the campaign, then look no further.  I  highly recommend this book as &quot;must read&quot; for anyone interested  in Marse Robert's Maryland Campaign of 1862.  It will also make an  excellent reference tool for anyone who cannot make it to the battlefield.  It brings the fields of battle to you!	2000-01-29
US	52842809	R27NMG9WKW4K28	0811726827	276190662	Beyond the Beachhead: The 29th Infantry Division in Normandy	Books	5	25	27	N	Y	Dedicated to the 29th	At the onset of World War II, men and machines were ill prepared to fight in an overseas campaign against the Axis powers.  Yet, the 29th, rose up from a National Guard unit, to a unit representing states  all across our  great land.  Officers were replaced and men were shuffled in and out of  duty until the proper man was found for the job.<br />Men such as General  Cota, took it upon themselves to lead charges off the beach and into a hail  of bullets.  As he leaped and dashed across the road, he yelled for others  to follow his example.  In doing so his bravery trickled down to the lowest  private in line and moved them off the beach!  Cota's story and many others  truly complete this book.<br />&quot;Beyond the Beachhead&quot; was hard to  put down.  In describing the maintaining of spotless jeeps to the specifcs  and rigors of training to 20 July 1944, when the 35th Division took over  for the 29th for a well deserved eight-day rest;  Mr. Balkoski's attention  to detail takes you to the point of actually smelling spent powder from the  bangalore torpedos as they exploded under the wire.<br />This book is a must  for anyone interested in World War II history, and goes far towards  revealing what happened, not only on the beach, but beyond!  Thank you  Mr. Balkoski for all your time and effort, it's been wonderful reading!	2000-01-29
US	52842809	RHJ1ELGZIWQT5	0811813487	183498195	The Civil War in Depth: History in 3-D	Books	5	15	15	N	N	History in 3-D	&quot;Civil War in Depth&quot; is a fascinating piece of work.  The stereoscopic photographs literally jump off the page when viewed properly with the enclosed 3-D viewer.  Many of these views were previously  published using only one side.  Thus the true look and clarity of detail  was lost, but within these pages the pictures come back to life!<br />In  speaking with Mr. Zeller at Chambersfest 99' in Chambersburg, PA, I found  many of these views were never seen until most recently; with several more  unseen views recently surfacing after publication.  If the opportunity ever  presents itself, by all means, see his slide presentation based upon his  research.<br />Many thanks to Bob Zeller for the excellent work and detail  that went into this publication and I hope to see more newly discovered  views in a possible up and coming book.<br />I highly recommend this book to  fellow Historians and Civil War buffs.  It's a must for your collection!	2000-01-26
US	52842809	RESDAMSU5LCXR	0930919068	802939079	2nd Virginia Infantry (Virginia Regimental Hist Ser)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Innocent Soldiers - laid to rest.	Dennis Frye put together a very concise and well researched book on this unit.  The chapters are well laid out and to the point, finished off by &quot;Lost and Not Heard from Since&quot;, the real 'Meat and Potatoes' of  the book.<br />It's here that the roster of the 2nd Va. Cav. is meticulously  listed and greatly appreciated.  Several of the men listed within these  final pages now call Elmwood Cemetery home.  A quiet little cemetery just  three miles from where I now live.  I often use this book to better  understand what drove the men who now lie beneath the many headstones in  the Confederate part of Elmwood cemetery.<br />This book truly puts into  context the struggles the 2nd Virginia Cavalry went through during the war.  Thanks for all your efforts Dennis!	2000-01-25
US	52842809	R3RY3EPASWVSU2	0891416447	486257474	Black Sheep: The Definitive Account of Marine Fighting Squadron 214 in World War II	Books	4	15	17	N	Y	The True Baa Baa Black Sheep	This study of Marine Fighting Squadron 214 really hits home to a fellow follower of the televison series.  I too stayed up late to watch the series and waited with great anticipation to see &quot;Pappy&quot; and the gang  take on everyone and everything and win the battle.<br />I never read  Boyington's book and would like to pick up a copy to check his facts  against those listed in this book.  As a student of the Civil War I've come  to realize, that the older men get, the more fierce the battles they  fought.<br />Within these pages Mr. Gambles eye for detail sheds new light  on the air war over the Solomons.  My only concern is the finite level of  detail used to put forth this work.  One can tell the level of research was  exhausting, however, it should not be as exhausting to go through the book.  Also, the repetitive nature of Boyington's faults needs not to appear  quite so often.  20/20 hindsight is not only usefull for statistical  research but damaging as well, so let's not forget the men of the 214 that  went to battle and lost their lives for the very liberties we now enjoy!<br />Take Boyinton's accounts with a grain of salt and allow the man his  glory.  He gave America hope during a time in which we needed a hero.	2000-01-24
US	52842809	RZDW49NLO5OKH	038529929X	313045692	Hannibal: A Novel	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Clarice the Cannibal?	Not to bore the average readers of these reviews but I can sum up this work in a paragraph or two.<br />Imagine this:  You see a nice brochure of a  vacation rental in Florida.  You pick it up, and immediately are caught up  in photos of white sandy beaches and beach front condos.  You rush home and  plan your trip and count the days until you go.  Everything is wonderful,  beautiful weather, on-time flights, and even the airline food tastes  outstanding.  Yet, upon arrival you find nothing more than tents on stilts  behind a row of condos blocking your view of the beach. You then realize  the picture was taken in front of the condos and you have now been  taken!<br />This book is the same as that brochure; true it has it's moments  and some of the plot developement has potential, but agent Starling as a  Cannibal?  Come, come now my dear Mr. Harris, have you had too many juniper  berries with your sweet breads?<br />I thoughly enjoyed the first book as  well as the movie.  Alas, my wait for this book and possible movie has been  spoiled!	2000-01-24
US	52842809	R27KZUM6DMH2C1	0873384008	752051330	Antietam: Essays on the 1863 Maryland Campaign	Books	5	1	3	N	N	In depth Study	I agree with the previous reviewer.<br />This book hits home and goes deeper into the background of the causes and conflicts arrising from the Maryland Campaign of 1862.<br />Take this book with you when you visit  Antietam National Battlefield.  You will come away with a better  understanding of what took place before and after America's Bloodiest  single day battle.<br />Highly recommended!	2000-01-23
US	52842809	RZM9HXIWDC6KK	068480137X	705619047	D Day: June 6, 1944: The Climactic Battle of World War II	Books	5	2	6	N	Y	Stirring account of D-Day!	Stephen Ambrose has truly worked his literary magic once again.  This work is a pleasure to read and one of several that's hard to put down upon opening the first page.<br />The accounts, coupled with a smattering of  reflections helps the reader move back in time to that fateful day.  This  mirrored with personal insight adds a nice touch to the book.<br />I highly  recommend this book for fellow students and enthusiasts of WWII.  By  putting forth his best efforts Mr. Ambrose has helped preserve the history  of D-day.<br />Well done!	2000-01-23
US	52842809	R3B4BY36GYWQLZ	0783547048	384771896	Antietam (Voices of the Civil War)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Delving into the past	In working with Time-Life to produce this work, I ran across many personal accounts that were previosuly unpublished.  To see their inclusion in this book was gratifying in that the past would not be left to gather dust on  some old archival shelf.<br />Many accounts in our regimental files at the  battlefield contained personal letters and photos from families across the  country.  The editiors of Time-Life compiled many of those items into an  easy to read format, spelling out the specifics of attack across the once  feritle farmland now known as Antietam National Battlefield.<br />The horrors  of battle are not easy to grasp, but by including personal letters, maps,  photos, and the Hope paintings the reader gets a brief look into what life  was like on 17 September 1862.<br />Whether or not you can get to the  battlefield pick up this book.  It's accounts are moving, and the impact of  what happened will flow from the pages as you begin your journey into the  Maryland Campaign of 1862.<br />This book is a must for any historian or  student of the Civil War.	2000-01-23
US	52842809	R1VDNRQO0QXPG	0471318620	404958901	Undercover Tales of World War II	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Mystery and secrets abound!	Mr.Breuer does a fine job of weaving shadowy tales of intrigue and suspense into his latest book.  True, the allies won the war, but what occurred behind the scenes, and who were the major players?  Care to find  out?  Then pick up this book, it's a fasinating read into the mysteries of  World War II!	2000-01-01
US	52842809	RHM9MK73JQDY	0873386310	712189789	Taken at the Flood: Robert E. Lee and Confederate Strategy in the Maryland Campaign of 1862	Books	5	19	22	N	N	Antietam Revisited	My kepi is off to Mr.Harsh.  His latest work, dare I say, takes the place of Murfin's &quot;The Gleam of Bayonets&quot; The detail of troop movement is quite precise, and is followed up by sound research!<br />It's as if  Harsh rode aside Lee as he spoke at length of his strategy, movements, and  inner most thoughts, then Harsh carefully jotted them down and sent them  off to the presses.  The book is quite captivating, and pleasently lacks  the usual focus on trivial matter.  This book is truly the meat and  potatoes of the &quot;Maryland Campaign&quot;	2000-01-01
US	52842809	R363X0O9NB5PUQ	1575000377	572854020	Riding The Rails	Books	5	17	18	N	N	A time to Reflect - a new beginning	This work was thoughly enjoyable.  From the first moment I recieved it I reflected on its contents, pouring over each page as a child first learning of his past.  &quot;Riding the Rails&quot; vividly portrays children thrust  into adulthood upon their first adventure across our wide open country.<br />Not that they were out to conquer the world or to make their mark, but  moreover to find a better way of life, or just simply to survive.<br />These  are the stories of those that did survive. Let's not forget those who fell  beneath the wheels of destiny, or those that died silently in cold empty  boxcars amid the despair of the Great Depression. Their pain is silenced,  but much of their legacy lives on.<br />Mr. Ulys, thank you for all your  efforts in preparing this book and for bringing these subjects to the light  of day.	1999-12-05
US	52842809	R3AE7NY11Z3OMC	0375502025	190088526	The Greatest Generation	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	A Time to Reflect	In speaking with my Grandfather, and in my various trips to Archives II at College Park, I've come to have a better understanding of what &quot;The Greatest Generation&quot; means.<br />The stories within these pages not only  reflect a time of war, but a time of morality, freedom and those who felt  an obligation or calling to fight for those ideals.  My Grandfather is one  such man.<br />Joseph A. Dean of the 1268 Combat Engineers may not have been  in the thick of battle but his stories and life mirror those within these  pages.  I thank him and those that went to war along side him, because they  took the terrible hand that was delt to them, and made it work.  To those  that have been offended by this work, I ask you to reflect on your life.  The Generation spoke of in this book fought for your rights, and many gave  up their lives so you could speak your mind.  Isn't it time you use your  mind for more than harsh words and sophomoric remarks?<br />Thank you Mr.  Brokaw, and thank you Pappa D.!	1999-03-27
US	52842809	RUAH4N9XLPJWJ	0814757898	119280409	The Conquest of the Reich: D-Day to VE Day--A Soldiers' History	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Common Ordinary People - life over death	As an avid reader of both Civil War and World War II material, this book struck me as filled with experiences of ordinary people.  Common every day folk, many just telling their story of life and death.<br />Yet, this book  is more than that, it's a remembrance of those that &quot;Have borne the  battle&quot;, and how they survived to give us a glimpse into the past,  through their eyes.<br />As I opened the cover and began my journey into the  past, I was introduced to camp inmates, civilians, soldiers, women and  children of all ages.  Each riveting me to my seat as I read their  story.<br />This book brings you from the comforts of your living room couch  into the thick of battle and returns you safely as you move from chapter to  chapter.<br />Very hard to put down and at times very emotional to read.	1999-02-08
US	52842809	R1LY8LGYESGHKB	0895779536	484355387	The Titanic	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Stimulating research of the begining to an end.	As a Civil War Historian I've become accutely aware of fact vs. fiction and how emotion rips the truth from the printed word.  It is pleasureable to say that from my first reading of this book Geoff Tibballs, has not thrown away the facts for fiction.  He has instead put together quite a remarkable piece of work, topping it off with the final chapter &quot;The legacy of the Titanic&quot;.<br /> It's pages are filled with first hand accounts and plenty of descriptive material, leading the reader from the very first thoughts of building the magestic liner to it's tragic and heart felt demise in early morning hours of April 15, 1912. If you're historically minded or just mildly interested and are looking for a quality book on the Titanic that's easy to read and enjoyable to follow, this is the book for you!	1998-01-27
