US	52843308	R37UFVL5CIM75R	0380720027	218105535	The End of History and the Last Man	Books	4	13	18	N	N	Food for Thought: leftover Hegel &amp; thymos of Platonic coffee	&quot;The End of History and the Last Man&quot; is about the philosophy of history, not history itself.  The few snippets of history anecdotally included are from modern Western history.  Western political philosophy applied to the immediate post-Cold War world, as seen by a student of the usual Western political philosophers -- Plato Locke, Hobbes, Hegel, Nietzsche, and some guy named Kojeve -- is what Fukuyama purveys.  It's a fairly readable book, considering the sources and the points he's trying to cover.<br />I do not agree with the author that history is directional, just path-dependant -- though less so than he implies, the vagaries of linguistics and ephemerality of documentation being what they are.  I'm not quick to agree that the essence, the soul of a person is a trinity of reason, desire, and thymos (esteem or pride).  But if one is willing to at least suspend disbelief, the rest of the book flows reasonably from that premise, and there are significant insights to be gained along the way.  The intrinsic sublimation of thymos by liberal democracy into commercial and electoral politics is seen as the primary factor in its successful competition with previous socioeconomic systems.  The presumed 'end of history' arises when all nations have become liberal democracies, and compete solely on a nonmilitary basis.  Modernization \\"can be understood as the gradual victory of the desiring part of the soul, guided by reason, over the soul's thymotic part.\\"<br />His characterization of liberal democracy as the best of all possible worlds and its citizens as the 'last men' is tiresome in usage and presumptuous in conception.  In liberal democracy as a thesis or paradigm (see Thomas Kuhn), problems will be discovered over time, which will be synthesized with durable aspects of liberal democracy into a new paradigm.  An antithesis is not required for a new synthesis, just unsolved problems with better paradigmatic solutions and a crisis of belief among adherents of the predominant paradigm.  Fukuyama does add a limited qualification at the end, raising the relativism of liberal democracy (which makes it consider itself as of less than absolute virtue and value; this is theoretical) and its corrosive effect on social cohesion in favor of economic flexibility (decidedly practical) as the leading problems.<br />Treatment of three keys issues would strengthen the book: the hegemonic master-slave relationship between the US and the rest of the world; the translation of the various philosophical theoretical considerations into sources of social power (see Michael Mann); and, while history is path-dependant, it is not teleologicaly directional: there is lack of directionality in the selection regime for States (see Jared Diamond, Stephen Jay Gould or any other evolutionary biologist).  It's the power, every day, all day, that matters.  There is no Promised Land at The End of Universal History -- just another hill on the road for the wagon to climb (or descend).  But ultimately  this book is valuable, less for the answers it presents than the questions it raises.	2002-01-20
US	52843308	RU2W3NX16RZ7U	0465005519	31536547	The Ghosts Of Evolution: Nonsensical Fruit, Missing Partners, And Other Ecological Anachronisms	Books	4	7	7	N	N	What if an Osage orange falls but no mastodon hears it?	That's what Barlow writes about in this read-in-a-day work.  A popular science account of evolutionary biology, mostly in Quaternary North America, it explores the co-evolution of plants and animals.  She points to traits like large size, seed retention, digestion tolerance, and abrasion tolerance as indicative of megafaunal dispersion and thus identifies megafaunal fruits -- pawpaw, avocado, guava, papaya, passion fruit, cherimoya, desert gourd, honey locust, and Kentucky coffee.  Next the author considers the various recently extinct North American species  (horses, mastodons, tapirs, sloths, camels, giant tortoise) and which might have been interested in the various fruits.   An interesting background discussion compares and contrasts foregut (ruminants like cattle, deer and sheep) and hindgut (like horses and elephants) feeders.<br />&quot;Ghosts&quot; reinforces the sense I've had since visiting Africa that North America is empty of some large and important creatures that should be here.  I can now better visualize what plants they were eating, and what their preferred habitats were like.  I can also better visualize the cascade of extinction, past and present,  from animal extirpations to the plants that evolved with and depended upon them.	2002-01-20
US	52843308	R25KWXB84J9IEJ	0521574560	135995534	1: An Economic and Social History of the Ottoman Empire (Economic & Social History of the Ottoman Empire)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	from the archives: nuts and bolts about agriculture &amp; trade	I wouldn't say that social history enters much into the book.  The authors have written a straightforward translation and interpretation of the Ottoman archives laying out patterns in revenue from land taxes and customs fees.  Reading like a series of focused essays without quite as much synthesis as I would like, still it was a worthwhile read.  Most valuable were the new insights  I got into the relative importance of trades routes and the organization of land ownership and taxation over time.  Also interesting to see was the primacy of slaves and silk in the customs revenue stream, and the impact of commercial motives on Ottoman military expansion.  All in all, this is a fine book for those wanting deep knowledge of the early Ottoman economy, civil and state.	2002-01-13
US	52843308	R3IP2PPLB0X3SX	0393317552	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	5	52	63	N	N	An opus of breathtaking scope worth multiple readings	I read this book when it came out and saw Diamond on the lecture circuit when he plugged the book.  I thought highly of it at the time.  Seeing it still selling well four years later, I wanted to review it but felt a re-reading was in order.  It was even better this time.<br />Diamond's central rhetorical device is answering New Guinean friend Yali's questions why Europeans have so many more goods than New Guineans do.  The answer is location, location, location:  location with lots of domesticable crops; location with lots of domesticable animals; and location with lots of productive acreage having 'Goldilocks' access to the rest of the world -- strong enough for crop and idea diffusion but weak enough to prevent political unification.  The book is twenty solidly written essays like his 'Discover' magazine articles.  Linguistics, evolutionary biology, history, archaeology, anthropology, epidemiology, agronomy and paleontology are just part of the palette from which Diamond draws for his sweeping portrait of the most recent 13,000 years of human existence.  <br />There is hardly a wrong word written, a false step taken, or an error made in this exciting book, which delights in no small part by raising as many questions as it answers.  Diamond knows a lot about a lot of things, and provides many an aha! moment.  He also asks interesting questions about some things that neither he or anyone else knows about, and those questions are as interesting as any of his answers.  He answers questions like: How did Africa become black?  How did China become Chinese? and Why aren't Australia, New Guinea, and Malaysia Polynesian?  One may not like the answers, but he takes a great shot at them, and I relish his doing so.  He asks why proselytizing religion (Christianity and Islam) were driving forces for conquest among Europeans and West Asians but not Chinese.  He also relates several interesting bits about his extensive field work (as an ornithologist) in New Guinea.  <br />Thebest page of the book is page 87, figure 4.1, &quot;Factors Underlying the Broadest Pattern of History.&quot;  The entire book is spent explaining that diagram, which is itself an answer to What are the proximate, intermediate, and ultimate causes to history's broadest pattern?  I would modify his ultimate factors to be geography (adding carrying capacity to his east/west axis) and, more controversially, co-evolution between humans and large animals (with respect to their availability and behavior).  I am also surprised that he did not cite the island-area effect in species or cultural diversity.  But perhaps that would have been gilding the lily.  There is nothing in the author's framework that precludes a change in where the most goods are today.  He notes carrying capacities and access have changed radically over the last 13,000 years, shifting the balance of power from time to time.  200 years ago, for instance, China had the most goods.  200 years from now it may again.<br />If you like history, evolutionary biology or (like me) both, read this book today!	2001-12-06
US	52843308	R2YCRSIWNPYGQW	0816511004	354030654	Quaternary Extinctions: A Prehistoric Revolution	Books	5	15	15	N	N	The authoritative source for data and theories	This is the best, most comprehensive treatment of available data (which has grown some) and theories (which have grown but not multiplied) on land vertebrate extinctions of the last 100,000 years. If you are a mammoth/sabertooth extinction hound, this book will feed you better than any other. It does require some specialized knowledge in a few chapters, but the gist is accessible for the educated layperson. It's worth hunting for or buying used.<br />A more recent offering, though briefer, is &quot;Extinctions in Near Time,&quot; Ross MacPhee, ed.<br />I appreciate the candor in labeling two of the major sections, entitled 'the theoretical marketplace: geologic-climactic models' and 'the theoretical marketplace: cultural models' which encompass variations on each of the two main theories for the extinction.<br />In addition to theories, the book describes the various mammals as well as their pattern of disappearance region by region worldwide. At 867 pages, it will keep you going for a while, but it's worth every page.<br />There is only one chapter on birds, only passing references to a tortise, lizard, or fish, and nothing on plants. I would love to find similar treatments for changes in characteristic flora for the same time period.	2001-12-05
US	52843308	R3A56B0M0280OJ	0684832801	837753671	The Middle East: A Brief History of the Last 2,000 Years	Books	5	49	53	N	N	Masterful survey, deeply considered &amp; articulately expressed	I have willfully avoided reading any of Lewis' works because of his popularity.  The mistake and loss were mine, but are mine no more.<br />After an engaging preview in the introduction, the first 132 pages of &quot;The Middle East&quot; is a recap of history, from Nile to Oxus and from AD 1 to 1700 where he highlights precedents for current characteristics.  The Caliphate's expansion was aided by peoples people &quot;long subject to the Persian and Byzantine Empires [who] exchanged one imperial domination for another and found their new masters less demanding, more tolerant, and above all more welcoming than the old.&quot;  The middle third of the book is a collection of cross-sectional essays on the state; the economy; elites; the commonality; religion and law; and culture.   Agriculture &amp; stock raising were economically in different hands, hence the persistence of nomads.  Poets were PR people for rulers, even composing 'jingles.'   Compared to the West, there was a lack of doctrinal differences or strife, an absence of persecution of heretics or unbelievers.  &quot;Muslims... [created] a religious civilization beyond the limits of a single race or religion or culture.  The Islamic world in the High Middle Ages was international, multi-racial, polyethnic. one might even say intercontinental.&quot;  In the 15th and 16th centuries, refugees voted with their feet from West to East.  &quot;[E]ven at the beginning of the 19th century a poor man of humble origin had a better chance of attaining to wealth, power and dignity in the Ottoman Empire than in any of the states of Christian Europe, including post-Revolutionary France.&quot;  The section on religion and law is especially illuminating in its comparison of political law as a supplement to the Shari'a and in its explanation of how custom, regulations, and interpretations were used to disguise new laws.<br />The final part of the book summarizes Middle Eastern history from 1683 to 1994.   The author's analysisof the Ottoman state is the best I've ever seen, from the organizational roots of success, through the seeds of relaxed complacence at the height of its success to its collapse, which he compares and contrasts to the Soviet collapse.   The alienation of landholdings, then governorships, is well covered, as is deindustrialization.  I'll have to get his book on the Ottomans.  Lewis' discussion of patriotism and nationalism is thought-provoking, as is one on the impact of liberty, equality and fraternity.  The last chapter reveals the only significant weakness of the book: Lewis fails to distinguish Modernity  from The West.  He uses the terms modern and West interchangeably, not appreciating a point that Huntington, for one, makes theoretically in &quot;Clash of Civilizations,&quot; and that Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan make in practice.  The author also understates the client-patron nature of the Egyptian, Israeli, Lebanese, Jordanian, Iraqi (formerly), and Saudi regimes, among others.<br />Though there are a couple of spell-check typos (attached instead of attacked, founts instead of fonts),  there are many delights in Lewis' command of language, and not just English.  The depth of his knowledge shines through everywhere.  It may aggravate some, but I especially delighted in his use of 'fora' as plural of the noun 'forum.'  His word choices are true, and his phrasings in places approach the elegance and wry wit of Will and Ariel Durant.    For instance, &quot;even the pettiest of modern dictators has greater control than even the mightiest of Arab caliphs Persian shahs, and Turkish sultans.  The traditional restraints on tyranny have gone.  The search for some new or renewed form of limitation continues.&quot;  The neologismic nature of country names are explored.  He even has a couple of satirical excerpts that had me tearing up with laughter.  And I had to go to the dictionary to look up 'calque' (a copy).  All in all, I found this an informative easily read book that left me wanting more.  It's time to add to my wish list.	2001-12-03
US	52843308	R150CSUA4QNUFP	0679640401	166313123	Islam: A Short History	Books	4	14	18	N	N	1400 years of politics as a sacrament in 200 pages or less	This is a knowledgeable, accessible, well-crafted introduction to the history of Islamic societies.<br />\\"Politics was, therefore, what Christians would call a sacrament; it was the arena in which Muslims experienced God and which enabled the divine to function effectively in the world.  Consequently, the historical trials and tribulations of the Muslim community... were of the essence of Islamic vision.\\"  So says Armstrong in her preface, introducing the most distinctive of the themes running through her 186 page narrative of Islamic history.  She excels in accessible insights of comparative religion and society.  Though there are occasional political and economic errors, those are peripheral areas of her story.  The book is academically well grounded (for instance, drawing on Marshall Hodgson, Ira Lapidus, and Bernard Lewis on Islamic history).  The insights are welcome complements to and syntheses of existing works on Islamic history as well as the Prophet Muhammad, philosophy and theology, mysticism and spirituality, modernity, fundamentalism, and Western perceptions of Islam.  She hopes ultimately to facilitate the cultivation of a more accurate appreciation of Islam in the West.  She's made a good effort at it.<br />The author emphasizes the inclusive aspect of Islam, that all rightly guided religion that submitted wholly to God came from the same divine source.  She also dwells on tawhid (the unity of the holiness of life) and the post-Mohammed introduction of misogyny to Islam.  Islam is not a coercive religion: in the first Muslim century, conversion was discouraged and indeed won permanent conquests through the Caliphate's tolerance by comparison to the previous Christian rulers.  \\"Religious ideas and practices take took... because they are found in practice to give the faithful a sense of sacred transcendence.\\" When Umar began encouraging conversions, the consequent loss of dhimmi (non-Muslim) poll taxes (jizyah) substantially weakened the Caliphate.   Its first fitnah (Civil War) in 656-660 raised a crucial question about what kind of man should lead the Muslim ummah (community): the most pious Muslim, a descendant of the Prophet, or, in the interests of peace and unity, withdraw and accept the existing military and political order?   This last question is a pertinent today as it was over 1300 years ago.<br />A dozen pages are devoted to the esoteric movements of the Twelver and Ismaili Shii, Faylasufs, and Sufis.  \\"Ismailis always alluded to God in the phrase 'He Whom the boldness of thought cannot contain.\\"  \\"[Faylasuf] rationalism was itself a kind of faith, because it takes great courage and trust to believe that the world is rationally ordered.\\" \\"Sufis sought the God in the depths of their being, rather than in current events... \\"[Muhammad's] interior islam [surrender] that was the true foundation of the law, rather than the usul al-fiqh [Islamic jurisprudence]... the Sufis, like the Shiis, were constantly open to the possibility of new truths.\\" \\"Any 'reformation,' however conservative its intention, is always a new departure, and an adaptation of the faith to the particular challenges of the reformer's own time... Islam proved that it had this creative capacity.\\"  Discrepancies between the Quranic ideal and existing polities made \\"Muslims... feel that their most sacred values had been violated; the political health of the ummah could touch the deepest core of their being.\\"  Those feelings about the non-ideal are not uncommon today, among Muslims and non-Muslims alike.  Later she comes to Al-Ghazzali who believed there were \\"three sorts of people: those who accept the truths of religion without questioning them; those who try to find justification for their beliefs in the rational discipline of kalam; and the Sufis, who have a direct experience of religious truth.\\"<br />As an interesting aside, she says: \\"When Charles Martel defeated the Muslim troops at Poitiers in 732, this was not regarded by Muslims as a great disaster... Europe seemed remarkably unattractive to them: there were few opportunities for trade in that primitive backwater, little booty to be had, and the climate was terrible.\\"  Armstrong is sloppy when she says \\"kingship [was not] feasible in a region where numerous small groups had to compete for the same inadequate resources.\\"  More accurately,  kingship was not feasible in a region with such a discontinuous distribution of resources and such modest surpluses.  My largest disagreements are in the last chapter, when she gives too-early dates to the rise and eminence of the West, which until Napoleon I was the weakest major civilization.  The author also misses the hostility of Western secularism to religion in Revolutionary France and elsewhere in the West.  But she well describes the main issues that Islamic (and other non-Western) societies have with Modernity, and says that \\"fundamentalism, in all religions,  is an essential part of it, existing in a symbiotic relationship with a coercive secularism.\\"  \\"[T]he desperation and fear that fuel fundamentalists also tend to distort the religious tradition, and accentuate its more aggressive aspects at the expense of those that preach toleration and reconciliation.\\"<br />I have seen a substantial literature on how the West underdevelops the non-West.  There could be an equally substantial literature on how the West tyrannizes the non-West.  Armstrong notes that Islamic society has, as the pre-Modern West did, executive [differential] control (via Caliph, Khan, Shah, etc.) and judicial [integral] control.  It has lacked organizationally is legislative [proportional] control, which can be filled by majlis, loya jirga, shura, or other adaptation of existing bodies.  That adaptation happened slowly in the West, and has been sabotaged by the West elsewhere.   She cites, for instance, Algeria in 1992.<br />When Armstrong talks about the 13th century Mongols , she could be talking about the 20th century West and holding out hope to the Islamic world.  There has been widespread destruction of society; and supreme foreign power and law. \\"The Mongols' power had suggested new horizons.  They had seemed about to conquer the world, and had been a portent of a new kind of imperialism, which linked the possibility of universal rule with mass destruction.  The splendor of their states dazzled, at the same time as they undermined Muslim preconceptions.  Muslims were not stunned into passivity by the horrors they had lived through, nor by the political defeat that these Mongol states represented.  Islam is a resilient faith.  Frequently in their history Muslims have responded positively to disaster, and used it constructively to gain fresh insights.  So too after the Mongol invasions, when people clearly felt that the world as they had known it was coming to an end, but also that an entirely new (...)\\"	2001-12-01
US	52843308	R2GEE9JK20Z2EV	0295980508	85903692	Afghanistan's Endless War: State Failure, Regional Politics, and the Rise of the Taliban	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Goodson good at facts on the ground and global implications	&quot;For weak states... [t]he end of the Cold War has revealed an international system that is flawed and troubled.&quot; &quot;It was always assumed in the West that with the end of the Cold War would come the fundamental alteration -- even the end -- of the East European states.  It was less well understood that the end of the Cold War could also sound the death knell for many weak Third World states.&quot;  Larry Goodson writes about Afghanistan in a solid if unspectacular style.  A survey of pre-Soviet Afghan history is followed by a detailed recounting of 20 years of war.    He provides some basic facts about the country: there are no railroads and only one major highway, which now is more like a jeep track than a highway.  Literacy is well under 10%, and life expectancy under 50.  Irrigation has been destroyed.  Potable water is available to 12% of the population, and almost 50% has been displaced.  Two decades of war, supported by military aid, consumption-oriented economic aid, and refugee relief, have left an economy with no functional industry and only drugs, smuggling, and small-scale agriculture to sustain it.<br />The Cold War played out in the Third World (much the way that colonialism did during the Concert of Europe and its aftermath from 1815 to 1914) as Great Powers vying with each other through proxies in preference to direct conflict.  Commercial interests played a secondary role.  With the demise of the USSR, commercial interests have not moved to the fore.  Rather, second and third-tier Powers have been freed to reenact proxy warfare in the weakest of states, like Afghanistan (and Zaire, Indonesia, etc.).  The involvement of several interested outside parties, which he quickly surveys, makes de-escalation nightmarishly difficult, especially as the proxies fear wholesale exile or extermination (a fear with some basis). <br />&quot;The Taliban lack talented political leadership, competent military performance, and ideological creativity,&quot; and were unlikely to form a stable state even if they had been completely victorious.  &quot;The Taliban have virtually no program with regard to more traditional areas of social policy, such as public health, infrastructure reconstruction, and education.  In these areas the Taliban rely almost completely on outside organizations for assistance, both in keeping with Afghanistan's traditional governmental preference for a rentier economy  and the Taliban's focus on warfare to the exclusion of all else... Herat and large areas of Kabul, for example, have had no regular supply of electricity for several years, and water throughout the entire country is unsafe to drink.&quot;<br />The Soviet policy of depopulating the countryside created massive numbers of refugees, most of whom fled to Pakistan.  The Soviet unwillingness to invade Pakistan permitted refugee camps to serve as bases for insurrection.   Refugee camps have 1,000 to 10,000 familles per camp.  A typical village had only 100.  Half the camp population are children.  These are only a few of the facts to the author uses to convey the &quot;vast cultural changes in the Afghan social framework.&quot;  <br />Pakistan's willingness to host a refugee-based insurgency, with assistance from the US, Saudis, and others, has been the most important of factors enabling war to continue long after a locals-only war would have burned out.  But Pakistan has paid a price, in the strengthen Islamist voice at home and in &quot;the leaky weapons pipeline and burgeoning drug culture [that] had created a Pakistan rife with violence, crime, and corruption.&quot;  &quot;Corruption of the pipeline happened at all levels, and weapons destined for use against the Soviets ended up in the hands of Pakistani soldiers or drug traffickers, were sold in the arms bazaars of [Pakistan], or were stockpiled for later use.  Estimates of how much aid actually leaked ranged from 20 to 80 percent but mujahideen combat commanders were vocal in their frustration at the lack of assistance.&quot;<br />Even before the war, Afghanistan was a weak state, with limited powers over and integration of its territory and people.  In the early parts of the war, the existing ruling classes of tribal and elders and religious leaders were killed or exiled.  &quot;Group identity usually extends no farther than the qawm [communal group], which never extends beyond the tribal or ethnic group level and can be much narrower, depending on circumstances.&quot;  Goodson's chief insight is that Afghanistan's breakdown is part of a worldwide pattern FAR beyond the West and Islam. Only US involvement can alter that pattern -- a prospect whose imminence seemed unlikely to him before 9/11/01. Even after it, that prospect is far from assured.	2001-11-30
US	52843308	RB8HM4DGK7KZ2	0815410522	279070361	Genghis Khan	Books	3	5	8	N	N	a readable recounting Temujjin's childhood and rise to power	Lister based his book on &quot;The Secret History of the Mongols,&quot; written about 1240 and unknown to the West until the 20th century.  This book focuses on the alliances and conflicts in Temujjin's life prior to become Khan of all the Mongols, which did not happen until he was 39.  Of special interest are his killing a half-brother when Temujjin was 11; the death of his father at age 9 and his subsequent mortal hazards; and his relationship with his &quot;anda&quot; (ally/&quot;sworn brother&quot;/lover?), Jamukha.<br />There is much description of horses and pasture, less description of women; both are men's property to be stolen or disposed of at will.  Temujjin apparently had some fear of his wife Berta and more fear of his mother Hoelun.<br />Perhaps I gained some insight to Temujjin's motivations and foibles.  It is clear that disobeying one's rightful lord was the worst offense possible, punishable by death whether the disobedience hindered or helped Temujjin.  There are repeated references to his will to power, promotion by merit, inspiration of loyalty, and a few references to unusually well organized military affairs.  But I gleaned no further insight on why he was uniquely successful.  &quot;Genghis Khan&quot; is most useful as a look through a window, but no more, onto nomadic politics and mores of 12th century Mongolia and its greatest political and military genius.	2001-11-27
US	52843308	R32R6RP1FNML7X	0684844419	9851575	The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order	Books	4	13	23	N	N	Europhile Civilization Theory Nicely Stated Globally Applied	&quot;Clash&quot; is a thoughtful theoretical work, with many an insight on the nature of civilization, its history, and its dynamics.  It is also a well-written book, with many a nice turn of phrase.  While drawing from comparative historians like Carroll Quigley and Arnold Toynbee, and theorizing in his discourse, Huntington also applies theory to current and future international affairs.<br />Huntington aspires to &quot;present a framework, a paradigm, for viewing global politics that will be meaningful to scholars and useful to policymakers.&quot;  On the whole he succeeds by focusing attention on the diverse major cultures worldwide, their relationships with each other, and the irrelevancy of Cold War policies to a post-Cold War world.  He categorizes cultures into civilizations and sub-civilizations.  My only critique of the framework is in the hierarchy of his groupings. His count of full civilizations is nine: Western, Latin American, African, Islamic, Sinic, Hindu, Orthodox, Buddhist, and Japanese.  I would reduce that to five by making Japanese a sub-civilization of Sinic; Buddhist of Hindu; and Germanic, Latin, and Slavic (Orthodox) of Western.  In addition, I would discuss more the Iranian, Arabic, and Turkish sub-civilizations of Islamic (which he mentions) and Dravidian (which he does not) of Hindu.  But these changes would not much affect his conclusions.<br />The apparently global Westernism amongst non-Western ruling classes is shallow; the adoption of English is just the adoption of inter-cultural communication.  Despite the prevalence of French language and culture among the Western ruling classes from 1600 to 1900, the peoples of the West did not all become French.  Not will the peoples of the world become American.  One of his more interesting insights is that Modernity, itself dislocating and alienating people, creates the need for new meaningful identities and accentuating the civilizational awareness' of people to replace the weakened local village, town, or tribal awareness'.  In this way, as well as in the increased communications between civilizations, Modernity heightens the clashing of civilizations.  &quot;If non-Western societies are to Modernize, they must do it their own way not the Western way and, emulating Japan, build upon and employ their own traditions, institutions, and values.&quot;<br />In places Huntington's analysis is good as far as it goes, but needs to go farther.  For instance, the persistence of civilizational affiliation is discussed.  A consideration of Turkey as a state torn between Islam and West is interesting.  Huntington does not go back as far as he should: as part of Greek and Roman empires, Turkey was Western for 1500 years, from 300 BC to 1200 AD.  But he considers that since Mustafa Kemal, Turkey has tried to Modernize as well as Westernize.  It seeks to become a member of the EU.  It also has a rising awareness of its Muslim nature, and the ruling military and political leaders have suppressed it.  A similar analysis of Pakistan's dual Muslim - Indic nature would also interest.  Huntington as an aside advocates the expulsion of Turkey (and Greece) from NATO: &quot;NATO... should recognize the essential meaninglessness of having as members two states each of which is the other's worst enemy and both of which lack cultural affinity with the other members.&quot;  A chapter on inter-civilizational issues is the weakest in the book.  Weapons proliferation is mistakenly not attributed to the West.  A section on human rights and democracy is superficial, and immigration is substantively but incorrectly analyzed.<br />Dar al-Islam is thoughtfully and well considered.  Similarities are highlighted between the Islamic Resurgence, on the one hand, and Protestant Reformation; and waqfs and other Islamic organizations, on the one hand, and early 20th century American political machines.  The increasingly extreme nature of the Resurgence is attributed to Cold War politics, the relative ease of repressing secular opposition; and in some cases high dependence on foreign support. Western hypocrisy and double standards are enumerated.  While noting the lack of a cohesive Islamic core, however, he notes the Western dismemberment of the Ottoman Empire in this context but fails to note the Western suppression of possibles successors in that role within Islam (or Africa).<br />India gets too little ink, but concern about China seems overstated and premature.  While in the long run (200 years) he is right about the likely eventual preeminence of China worldwide, his medium term (50 year) speculation is conditional on an unlikely concatenation of events in the shorter time frame.  Huntington does not mention the crisis of an aging population China will confront as a result of its 'one child only' policy.  In China succession is irregular and the continuity of government is neither routine or assured.  The invisible hand of economics is still too restrained.  The invisible hand of politics does not operate freely at all, limiting the resources from which the government can draw.  Most fundamentally, China does not have a combination of legally established differential, proportional, and integral controls on society that in the West are exercised by executive, legislative, and judicial branches of government.  Until both hands are freed, China will be far from achieving its economic and political potential.<br />The author's train of thought travels well and carries far.  I don't always agree with the routing, but the destination is worthwhile.  He runs off the rails only once in a brief late tirade implying that multiculturalism risks American Civil War II and Collapse of the USSR II.  &quot;The multiculturalists are, as Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr. [from 'The Disuniting of America'], said,  'very often ethocentric separatists who see little in the Western heritage other than Western crimes.'&quot;  This ad hominem critique must be based on some straw man definition of multiculturalism ( Schlesinger's?) with which I am not familiar and is not articulated in the text.<br />Modernity permeates the world more each day; the West washes over the surface and runs off.  Huntington's mindfulness of the distinction between the West and Modernity informs his framework all the way through to his conclusion that the &quot;Western belief in the universality of Western culture suffers three problems: it is false; it is immoral; and it is dangerous.&quot;	2001-11-20
US	52843308	R38PG9N7SQC7M9	0743205022	444632912	Holy War Inc. Inside the Secret World of Osama Bin Laden	Books	5	5	7	N	N	al Qaeda, the big picture: well worth the time and $	Pretty good, though Ahmad Rashid's is better<br />Bergen's account is eminently readable, well informed, and occasionally insightful.  About bin Laden  I learned as much as anywhere: he has two full sisters, his parents divorced, and his father died when he was ten.  This last seems to have made him  seek the influence of religiously radical older men, currently Ayman al-Zawahiri.  The primary topic, however, is Holy War and the leading organization advocating it: al-Qaeda.<br />&quot;Holy War&quot; contains a bit of colloquial humor ('sell-by date' and 'full Clinton,'), and a bit more travelogue: &quot;Afghanistan... the very word is an incantation.  I never get over the thrill of seeing the country... It promises mystery, a movement back in time of medieval chivalry and  medieval cruelty, an absence of the modern world that is both thrilling and disturbing, a place of extraordinary natural beauty that opens up the mind to contemplation.&quot;<br />Bergen seems sufficiently well versed in Islam, Islamic societies, and the region's history not to make any egregious mistakes.  He correctly dates the relative decline of Muslim power to Napolean's invasion of Egypt in 1798.  &quot;There is nothing inherently 'antidemocratic' in Islam, and there are Muslim concepts, such as SHURA -- that fit rather neatly into a democratic framework.&quot;  My biggest disagreement with him is in the prologue, where  he considers bin Laden's criticism of the New World Order (NWO) as ironic and that the NWO is facilitative.  Bergen's argument rests on modernization and on the new post-Cold War states, whose existences are irrelevant to the Islamic character of its people.  &quot;[T]he restoration of the Khalifa had about as much chance as the Holy Roman Empire suddenly reappearing in Europe,&quot; he says.  Since the NWO resembles the post-Napoleanic Concert of Europe, a better parallel would be to the likelihood of the appearance of a 21st century Muslim version of Bismarck.  <br />The author compares press coverage of war in Afghanistan and in Vietnam:  &quot;[F]or those covering the Afghan war the risks were orders of magnitude higher, and the interest of news editors orders of magnitude lower, since no American soldiers' lives were at stake.&quot;  He also compares Arab-Afghans to the Spanish Civil War's International Brigade; the Taliban to the Khmer Rouge;  bin Laden's 1996 Afghanistan return to  Lenin's Russian return; Dar-al-Islam to Christendom; and al Qaeda to the 12th century Assassins.<br />Egyptians, Saudis, Yemenis, and Algerians provided the lion's share of the &quot;Arab Afghans,&quot; who &quot;in the grand scheme of things [they] were no more than extras in the Afghan holy war.  It was the lessons they learned from the jihad, rather than their contribution to it, that proved significant.&quot;  American involvement and knowledge was almost completely by proxy (Pakistan's ISI).  In the mid-'80s, there were only six CIA officials in Pakistan at any given time, and they were simply administrators [for American funding] who made up the ENTIRE Agency operation in the country.&quot;  The ISI favored the most Islamist and pro-Pakistan, as part of what Bergen calls their military-religious complex. The CIA used Saudi and American funds to purchase weapons from China and Egypt so that no support could be traced to the US, preserving plausible deniablility.  &quot;By 1985... 'deniability was no longer relevant... the US should have put pressure on the Pakistanis to distribute American aid in a manner that better reflected the interests of the United States.&quot;  For instance, the ineffective and genocidal zealot Gulbuddin Hekmatyar was favored over the effective and Sufi late Ahmad Masoud.<br />&quot;The grafting of entirely modern sensibilities and techniques to the most radical interpretation of holy war is the hallmark of bin Laden's network,&quot;  he says, though at the end of the same paragraph &quot;a pre-modern message was delivered by postmodern means.&quot; Better to say &quot;a non-Western message was delivered by Modern means.&quot;   Later he says &quot;Holy War, Inc. thus represents a privatization of terrorism that parallels the movement by many countries in the past decade to convert their state-supported industries to privately-held companies.&quot;  But &quot;[i]t is bin Laden's ability to attract recruits willing to martyr themselves that is the priceless commodity in his holy war.&quot;<br />The US embassy bombing; Yemen and the attack on the US Cole; and other terrorist acts, successful and unsuccessful, are chronicled.  An interesting chapter covers some US recruits, including one who taught at the US Army's Special Warfare Center and in Afghanistan.  Mistakes in US policy are identified, in all administrations: Carter, Reagan, Bush I and Clinton.  US officials seemed to welcome the Taliban to Kabul in 1996, because although they had little idea who the Taliban were, the Taliban would take a hard line on drugs and might bring a degree of stability that would facilitate Unocal's multi-billion dollar pipeline deal.  Policy changed because of their treatment of women, not terrorism.  The 1998 cruise missile attacks are critiqued for not intimidating bin Laden but turning him from a marginal figure into global celebrity. <BR>Al Qaeda's ties to Egypt are so close that &quot;[w]hile bin Laden is now the public face and moneybags of al Qaeda, ALL its key members are Egyptian and ALL its strategy and tactics are based on Egyptian models.  The argument can be made that a group of Egyptian jihadists took over bin Laden's organization rather than the other way around.&quot;  There follows more information on al-Zawahiri that I've ever seen before.<br />In bin Laden's public record &quot;are some significant omissions: he does not rail against the pernicious effects of Hollywood movies... pornography... the drug and alcohol culture of the West, or its tolerance for homosexuals.  He leaves that kind of material to Jerry Falwell.&quot; &quot;What he condemns the United States for is... the continued US military presence in Saudi Arabia; US support for Israel; its continued bombing of Iraq; and its support for regimes such as Egypt and Saudi Arabia the bin Laden regards as apostates from Islam.&quot;  But bin Laden also thinks Saddam Hussein is apostate, too.  Al Qaeda also has yet to attack an Israeli or Jewish target.  Apostate regimes beware.	2001-11-16
US	52843308	R204LAWQD9T5LX	0300089023	681039726	Taliban: Militant Islam, Oil and Fundamentalism in Central Asia	Books	5	3	4	N	N	complete economic, military, religious, and political survey	I remembered fragments of the material here from post-1979 news. But the thoroughness of &quot;Taliban&quot; was refreshing after the myriad newspaper and magazine articles I've read these past six weeks.<br />Rashid writes about the full cast of actors in Afghanistan as he considers economic, military, religious, and political aspects of the country. There are large numbers of factions among the Pashtun and Hazara.  It has been an explicit matter of policy for Pakistan (initially funding many Pashtun factions before settling on the Taliban) and Iran (funding eight different Hazara factions) to promote that factionalization.<br />Rashid describes typical Islamic practice in Afghanistan and how it has grown harsher since 1973.  Traditionally moderate in its Islamic practice, 90% of Afghans belong to the Sunni Hanafi school, the most liberal of the four main schools of Islamic thought.  Further moderating its tolerance and practice was the enormous popularity of Sufism, especially the Naqshbandiyah and Qaderiyah schools.  CIA, ISI, and Saudi support for the fringes of Afghani Muslim practice to the detriment of the moderate mainstream started with the Mujaheddin in 1980, and has as a result shattered the strength of the mainstream.<br />He clearly recounts the shallowness of US policy, the self-destructive nature of Pakistani and Saudi policy, and the incredible machinations and betrayals by non-Muslim of Muslim as well as Muslim by Muslim. The hyper-conservative Wahabbi Islam and Pashtun natures of the Taliban are depicted as consequences of its Saudi-Pakistani support, given the Wahabbi ties to the Saudi monarchy and the large Pashtun community in Pakistan. During the Soviet occupation, the US committed some four to five billion dollars between 1980 and 1992 in aid to the Mujaheddin.  US funds were matched by Saudi Arabia.  Most of this aid was in the form of weapons.  After the Soviets left, the US lost interest in the area and the Afghans as well as the Pakistaniswere left to pick up the pieces as best they could.  By 1994 this meant that, as now, Ismael Khan was in the NW near Herat, Dostum was in the north at Mazar, Rabbani (with the late Massoud) were in the NE, and (unlike now) southern Afghanistan was divided up amongst dozens of ex-Mujaheddin warlords.<br />&quot;Some 20 percent of the Pakistani was made up of Pakistani Pashtuns and the pro-Pashtun and Islamic fundamentalist lobby within [Pakistan's] ISI and the military remained determined to achieve a Pashtun victory in Afghanistan.  However, by 1994 Hikmetyar had clearly failed... Pakistan was getting tired of backing a loser and was looking around for other potential Pashtun proxies.&quot;  The Taliban's support for Jihad in Kashmir cemented their ties to Pakistan, while giving Pakistan plausible deniability.  By 1995 the Saudis were underwriting Pakistani efforts to aid the Taliban.  &quot;After the end of the Cold War, Washington's policy to [the area] was stymied by a lack of a strategic framework.  [It] dealt with issues as they came up, in a haphazard, piecemeal fashion... Between 1994 and 1996 the USA supported the Taliban politically through its allies Pakistan and Saudi Arabia, essentially because Washington viewed the Taliban as anti-Iranian, anti-Shia and pro-Western.&quot;  The US ignored the Taliban's fundamentalism.  From 1995 to 1997 a Unocal-sponsored pipeline and oil field development plan enhanced US support.  Subsequently domestic pressure over women's rights, hosting bin Laden, and drug production have progressively soured US disposition towards the Taliban without motivating an interest in fostering peace or development.<br />An especially striking case of betrayal is recounted in the 1997-1998 battle for Mazar-e-Sharif.  Rashid Dostum was in command at the time.  He got his position in part by betraying his mentor, then-President Najibullah, who has been installed by the Soviets on their way out.  Dostum's second-in-command, Malik Pahlawan, betrayed Dostum in May 19, 1997 to the Taliban.  The Taliban came in and, with Malik's help (and the fact that Dostum hadn't paid his troops for five months), took the city.  Dostum fled Uzbekistan then to Turkey.  Malik also turned over Ismael Khan to them.  On May 28, 1997 there was an uprising against the Taliban in which some 600 Taliban were massacred in the streets.  Malik was now in full control of four provinces.  But in September the Taliban counterattacked, Dostum returned from Turkey and defeated Malik, who fled to Turkmenistan.  All this infighting among the Uzbeks and the other members of the alliance made it easier for the Taliban to return the next year and alternatively beat and buy off the various factions and retake Mazar, after which they massacred inhabitants, especially Hazara, for two days.<br />The author, himself Pakistani, writes accessible English and draws from over 20 years of experience as a journalist covering Afghanistan. His first-person accounts of the major players on Taliban and anti-Taliban sides, as well as with parties in neighboring countries, adds to the depth of this book.  On Mullah Omar: &quot;A tall well-built man with a long, black beard and a black turban, Omar has a dry sense of humor and a sarcastic wit...  His shyness makes him a poor public speaker and despite the mythology that now surrounds him, he has little charismatic appeal.  Some Taliban say Omar was chosen for as their leader not for his political or military ability, but for his piety and his unswerving faith in Islam.&quot;<br />The transport Mafia; the destabilization of Pakistan; and the smuggling revenues that the Taliban taxes for its main income have also played their part in the tragedy that has made Afghanistan, like Somalia and so much of West and Central Africa, a failed state. Brief appearances by Henry Kissinger and Alexander Haig working on behalf of oil companies, trying to secure oil franchises and rights to build pipelines and drill for oil. give this book a little bit of everything for students (Taliban - sorry, couldn't resist the pun) of current events who want a deeper insight into Central and South Asia and the Islamic world, and the outsiders who meddle there.	2001-11-13
US	52843308	R1A1L04SYQWZWP	0674639413	887609032	Ontogeny and Phylogeny	Books	5	31	36	N	N	Deeply knowledgeable, thoughtful,  and philosophical	This is one of the three most influential books I've read in the last 20 years.<br />&quot;The world was a better place when I was young,&quot; &quot;Kids today are worse than they were 20 years ago,&quot; are two of the more egregious examples I hear of people confusing ontogeny (development of an individual) with phylogeny (development of a type or collective).  The world has always been a complicated and widely mixed placed.  It is far more likely for an individual's perceptions to change in the course of a lifetime than the world that we perceive.<br />Gould's essays (and books collecting them) are pleasant bits of fluff that entertainingly (and sneakily) deliver well-informed and timely bits of science. &quot;Ontogeny and Philogeny&quot; goes the next level down, using interesting bits of (mostly) science to deliver well-informed and timely bits of philosophy.<br />I bought this book because I was curious about the relationship between ontogeny and philogeny.  &quot;Does ontogeny recapitulate phylogeny?&quot; was on my mind.  No, says Gould.  Better, he describes what that relationship is.  Along the way, he explains how humans are differentiated from other species (a topic well expanded by Jared Diamond in &quot;The Third Chimpanzee&quot;).<br />Gould starts with the history of science (Lamarck, Ernst Haeckel); philosophy (Anaximander, Aristotle); and psychology (Cesare Lombroso; Freud).  He starts by showing the history of the perceived relationship between phylogeny and ontogeny.  The illustrative bits of science follow as he discusses heterochrony and paedomophosis, showing how phylogeny relates to ontogeny, which I will grossly oversimplify: ontogeny selectively draws from phylogeny with occasional complete departures that may or may not be helpful (which is also true of the retained bits of phylogeny).  The past may be selectively retained, but retaining one part does not necessitate the retention of all parts or even the relationship between the retainedparts.  Gould takes 409 carefully reasoned and well-written pages to get there.  It's worth the trip.	2001-11-04
US	52843308	R32VDP9WFP2QLO	0415154820	517272280	A History of India	Books	5	28	31	N	N	My favorite one-volume history of India	This book is mercifully brief on the deconstruction of literary sources that South Asian area studies are prone to and (again quoting the on-target cover copy) &quot;emphasises and analyses the structural pattern of Indian history.&quot; I wish it was longer than 335 pages.<br />The first 2/3 of the book covers the pre-British period -- a good fraction.  While relating more of the military viscitudes than I would like, there is some consideration of social, religious, and economic issues as well as ruling strategies.  And the focus on 'great empires' is less than in most Indian histories, which is good since India has spent much more time disunited than united.<br />Kulke and Rothermund break with the Hindu/Islamic/British periodization of Indian history, breaking periods before the Guptas and before the Mughals.  All in all, it is a substantial improvement over Romila Thapar's effort, and a huge improvement over Stanley Wolpert's book.	2001-11-04
US	52843308	R1TV1SNIHDVJBB	0816508127	354030654	Quaternary Extinctions: A Prehistoric Revolution	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The authoritative source for data and theories	Although over 15 years old, this book is the best, most comprehensive treatment of available data (which has grown some) and theories (which have grown but not multiplied) on land vertebrate extinctions of the last 100,000 years.  If you are a mammoth/sabertooth extinction hound, this book will feed you better than any other.  It does require some specialized knowledge in a few chapters, but the gist is accessible for the educated layperson.  It's worth hunting for or buying used.<br />A more recent offering still in print (though briefer) is &quot;Extinctions in Near Time,&quot; Ross MacPhee, ed.<br />I appreciate the candor in labeling two of the major sections, entitled 'the theoretical marketplace: geologic-climactic models' and 'the theoretical marketplace: cultural models' which encompass variations on each of the two main theories for the extinction.<br />In addition to theories, the book describes the various mammals as well as their pattern of disappearance region by region worldwide.  At 867 pages, it will keep you going for a while, but it's worth every page.<br />There is only one chapter on birds, only passing references to a tortise, lizard, or fish, and nothing on plants. I would love to find similar treatments for changes in characteristic flora for the same time period.	2001-11-04
US	52843308	R2JOIRGCW454KG	0521497817	528897429	A History of Chinese Civilization	Books	5	59	60	N	N	My favorite one-volume Chinese history	This book gives better depth to Chinese history than Spence or Fairbank do.  Spence is more concerned with the last 200 years, and Fairbank is too closely tied to the US foreign policy establishment for my tastes.  The fact that Gernet is on page 462 of 655 before he starts writing about the Manchus is a good thing.  He covers art and economics, politics and religion, with a refreshing equanimity.  It would be interesting to hear how well written it is in French, but the English is fine.  While clearly Western, Gernet's French persective is a welcome change of pace to these American's eyes.	2001-11-04
US	52843308	R1SDQJKURBWSBP	052144585X	722040228	002: The Sources of Social Power, Vol. 2: The Rise of Classes and Nation States, 1760-1914	Books	5	8	11	N	N	a worthy successor to Vol. 1	A philosopher of history as much as a historian and a sociologist, Michael Mann focuses here on early Modernity among the Occidental Great Powers -- France, Britain, Austria, Prussia/Germany, and the USA.  While an inclusion of non-Occidental powers would be enlightening, there is sufficient material here to get an appreciation for the shift from agrarian to industrial bases for power.  Mann also well elaborates the asymmetrical nature of power distribution and the variety of strategies used by those in power to maintain and build their power during this shift.<br />The intensive power of states increased dramatically, as did the larger aggregations and awarenessess within and between them: the nation-state was being born.  Small level policies had unintended and often catastrophic effects at larger levels -- which is the kernal of Mann's anaysis of the causes of World War I.  An upper-division college level book, perhaps a bit denser than it needs to be, still Vol. 2 is a most stimulating book.  I look forward to Vol. 3.	2001-11-02
US	52843308	R3F7A6XQA31AYC	0231065833	691931889	Before the Indians	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Evokes a sense of North America's (recently) lost Serengeti	Kurten at al have described the wonderful variety of large mammals that lived in North America for millions of years, until as recently  as 13,000 years ago.  Saber- and scimitar-toothed cats, camels, sloths, mastodons, lions, cheetahs and other animals combined to make North America a teeming home to large game more diverse than Africa now has.  Many fine illustrations accompany the text.<br />The book is well-written, easily accessible to the interested lay person and does not require college level understanding of morphological bone analysis.  Having been to southern Africa in 1997, I now cannot drive or hike through rural North America without imaging mammoths, tapirs, bear-sized beavers, one-ton running bears, and glyptodonts coming to the watering holes and browsing and grazing their way across the landscape.<br />For a comprehensive college-level treatment, see &quot;Quaternary Extinctions,&quot; Paul Martin and Richard Klein, editors.	2001-10-31
US	52843308	R2Z6DKJ0U91GWF	0226346846	275911542	002: The Venture of Islam, Volume 2: The Expansion of Islam in the Middle Periods	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Vol.2 of the finest English survey of Islamic civilization	This review really applies to all three volumes. Hodgson's work is not for those new to Islamic studies, and his writing style is complex. Few are the sentences that lack at least one subjunctive clause. But his adoption of key Arabic terms in his narrative; his broad geographic sweep, from Andalusia and the Sahel through Nile and Oxus to India and Indonesia; and his comprehensive consideration of political, social, religious, cultural, and economic aspects of civilization make for a series as broad and deep as this student of history could want. It took me several years to read the whole set, as only recently did I have enough interest in the artistic and philisophic (falsafah) traditions.	2001-10-31
US	52843308	R2GC9R3X623D5P	0521438446	76172608	Rethinking World History: Essays on Europe, Islam and World History (Studies in Comparative World History)	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Tough going but worth every bite	Hodgson was the pre-eminent Western historian of Islamic societies, as set forth in &quot;The Venture of Islam.&quot;  In &quot;Rethinking,&quot; Hodgson's widow has seen to the publication of a series of broader essays on the philosophy of history as applied to the world at large.  Part 1  tries to get outside Euro-centrism as best as an Occidental can.  Part 2 considers Islam in a global context, and Part 3 discusses commonalities and differences that make for meaningful comparison, decompositions, and aggregations in regional and global history.<br />The most interesting chapter is entitled &quot;Modernity and the Islamic Heritage.&quot; Here Hodgson inquires whether it is possible for a society to be Modern yet not Western, given that the presuppositions of Modernity reach deep into the Medieval Occident.  For example, &quot;with an effort of the imagination, one can guess what the institutions of Modernity might look have been like if it had developed, for instance, in Islamic society... The nation-state, with its constitutionalism, its particularist characters of rights and responsibilities, stems from the corporate conceptions of Medieval Western society.  From the very different legal conceptions of Medieval Islamic society, with their abstract egalitarian universalism, there might well have developed, instead of the nation-state, some international corps of super-ulama, regulating an industrial society on the basis of some super-sharia code.&quot;  This tension between Western-ness and Modernity is palpable in the West, but elsewhere it is a defining issue running through politics, economics, and warfare.  It is especially evident in the violent Islamist organizations, where Modernity is used to combat Westernization.<br />The successful resolution of those tensions, in the Islamic world as elsewhere on Earth, will be the only way that civilization of any kind can continue at all.	2001-10-30
US	52843308	R3SP7OJRMNN5A7	0761535810	405735166	Bin Laden: The Man Who Declared War on America	Books	2	24	29	N	N	meagre substance badly presented by an ignorant author	Read &quot;Taliban&quot; by Ahmed Rashid instead.<br />The good parts of this books are the brief biographical bit about bin Laden; the emphasis on Pakistani (esp. ISI) involvement; and details about Iranian strategies and participation.  They were not worth wading through this 400+ pages polemic to get.<br />Strike 1: The book is mislabeled.<BR>Chapter 1 is about bin Laden.  Chapter 2 is somewhat about bin Laden.  The other chapters have only an occasional mention of him.<br />Strike 2: Ayman al-Zawahiri is the COO to bin Laden's CEO in HizbAllah International, and so  has far greater involvement with specific terrorist acts.  He figures more strongly than bin Laden, but get less coverage in the text.<br />Strike 3: There are so many groups mentioned here that keeping track is overwhelming.  appendices relating them each to the other would be most helpful.<BR>One out: not well organized or packaged.<br />Strike 1:  The narrative is weak, the analysis thin and full of surmise and conjecture.  Periodic jabs are taken at Clinton's policies, while Bush I's 'love 'em and leave 'em' approach to Afghanistan and Pakistan -- abandoning them to a Kalashnikov culture from 1989 to 1993 -- is ignored.  Israel and 'The Jews' are mentioned as co-indicted with the US -- certainly as a red herring, perhaps to foster sympathy for Israel -- but no information about any operations targeting Israel are mentioned anywhere in the text.<br />Strike 2: As a couple other reviewers have said, he can't go ten pages without saying 'spectacular operation', 'spectacular terrorist operation,' or 'these were not idle threats.'  These are the most obvious bits of an extensive seam of purple prose riddling the book.<br />Strike 3: Too much ink is devoted to long verbatim quotes from windy overwritten communiques by various terrorist organizations, which irritate then bore.  The book should be at least 100 pages shorter.  Two out: not well written.<br />Strike 1: The author does not know the historyof Islamic societies (and should read Ira Lapidus' excellent work of that name).  On the second page of the introduction, he says &quot;during the eleventh century the Muslim world suffered a series of major defeats: The Crusaders occupied the Levant... while in the Iberian Peninsula a Christian coalition... began the campaign to evict the Muslims from Spain and Portugal&quot;  Far from occupying the entire Levant (the Nile - Oxus area), the Crusaders occupied no more than some bits of what are now Israel, Syria and Lebanon, and mostly they just occupied a handful of ports and the hinterland within 20 miles of the coast.  By 1300 they were all gone.  At the time, the Crusaders were crude barbarians by comparison to the civilized and technologically advanced societies of Egypt, Iraq, and Syria.  The Crusaders had a far larger (and negative) impact on their erstwhile fellow Christians in Constantinople in 1204 than ever they did in the Levant, indeed facilitating the Muslim conquest of the Balkans.<br />In Iberia, the Reconquest began with Charlemagne in the 9th Century, with major surges around 1085 (Toledo), 1212 (Las Navas de Tolosa), and 1492 (Grenada).  Between 1099 and 1529 the (Muslim) Turks conquered Anatolia (making it Turkish rather than Greek), Greece, Bulgaria, Moldavia and Wallachia (Romania), Serbia, and Hungary, losing only Hungary before 1815 (in 1699).  As late as 1700 Muslims ruled all of India. On the whole it was the Christian world that was suffering the defeats before 1700, not the Muslim one.  Muslims were also victorious against the Hindu, Buddhist, and African worlds in these years, giving better than they got worldwide.  Bodansky waves his hand and says that Muslim rulers &quot;revived religious extremism as the source of their legitimacy... so the Muslim world was swept with ... 'anti-intellectual rage'... Thus the Muslim world has been in paralysis since religious extremism rose in the twelfth century.&quot;  It would be interesting to hearwhat he thinks about the Inquisition or Jerry Falwell.<br />Strike 2: The author has problems distinguishing Western from Modern.  Phones are modern; jeans and carbonated soda are Western.  The author is not alone in this problem: many thoughtful people in the Orient, Occident, India and Africa have problems with it also.  The breakdown of the family in America is just one sign of it (what Americans call a nuclear family would be seen as a sad fragment of a family in much of the world).  Bin Laden is himself both utterly Modern as well as totally (though by most standards heterodox) Islamic.  A large part of his achievement is that reconciliation internally as well as within the organizations he's been part of.  The interesting question here is: Why did Modernity arise in the Occident not in, say, Sung China of the 12th century?  [See &quot;Rethinking World History&quot;, Marshall Hodgson] For Bodansky to call Islam backwards (p. XVI) is a mark of his ignorance.  Is Christianity backwards too?  Hinduism?  <br />Strike 3: Bodansky says that &quot;the seemingly unstoppable spread of Westernization... motivates the terrorists... Their individual struggles are the essence of the Islamist movement against Westernization.&quot;  Bodansky is wrong.  Most Muslim people are ruled by military dictatorships and monarchies, without the opportunities and freedoms that many Occidentals take for granted.  Why have a pointless impoverished, oppressed and hopeless life when you can have a meaningful death, say recruiters to prospective suicide terrorists/martyrs?  Naming the US operation &quot;Enduring Freedom&quot; must seem a bitter irony to most Muslims, who have no prospect for any such thing.  The US support for those regimes at high (though not limitless, as the Shah found) levels pours salt into the wound.  Three outs: not well conceived or knowledgeably produced.	2001-10-30
US	52843308	R3DNUFRBAFODW4	0300083408	681039726	Taliban: Militant Islam, Oil and Fundamentalism in Central Asia	Books	5	4	5	N	N	If you only buy one book on the situation, this is it.	I remembered fragments of the material here from post-1979 news. But the thoroughness of &quot;Taliban&quot; was refreshing after the myriad newspaper and magazine articles I've read these past six weeks.<br />Rashid writes about the full cast of actors in Afghanistan as he considers religious, political,  military, and economic aspects of the country. There are large numbers of factions among the Pashtun and Hazara.  It has been an explicit matter of policy for Pakistan (initially funding many Pashtun factions before settling on the Taliban) and Iran (funding eight different Hazara factions) to promote that factionalization.<br />He describes typical Islamic practice in Afghanistan and how it has grown harsher since 1973.  Traditionally tolerant and moderate in its practice of Islamic, 90% of Afghans belong to the Sunni Hanafi school, the most liberal of the four main schools of Islamic thought.  Further moderation was from the enormous popularity of Sufism, especially the Naqshbandiyah and Qaderiyah schools.  CIA, ISI, and Saudi support for the fringes of Afghani Muslim practice to the detriment of the moderate mainstream started with the Mujaheddin in 1980, and has as a result shattered the strength of the mainstream.  Wahabbism, by contrast, was founded in part as an anti-Sufi reaction and had scant support in Afghanistan before the war.<br />The shallowness of US policy, the self-destructive nature of Pakistani and Saudi policy, and the incredible machinations and betrayals by non-Muslim of Muslim as well as Muslim by Muslim are clearly recounted. The hyper-conservative Wahhabi Islam and Pashtun natures of the Taliban are depicted as consequences of its Saudi-Pakistani support, given the Wahhabi ties to the Saudi monarchy and the large Pashtun community in Pakistan. During the Soviet occupation, the US committed some four to five billion dollars between 1980 and 1992 in aid to the Mujaheddin.  US funds were matched by Saudi Arabia.  Most of this aid was in theform of weapons.  After the Soviets left, the US lost interest in the area and the Afghans as well as the Pakistanis were left to pick up the pieces as best they could.  By 1994 this meant that, as now, Ismael Khan was in the NW near Herat, Dostum was in the north at Mazar, Rabbani (with the late Massoud) were in the NE, and (unlike now) southern Afghanistan was divided up amongst dozens of ex-Mujaheddin warlords.<br />&quot;Some 20 percent of the Pakistani was made up of Pakistani Pashtuns and the pro-Pashtun and Islamic fundamentalist lobby within [Pakistan's] ISI and the military remained determined to achieve a Pashtun victory in Afghanistan.  However, by 1994 Hikmetyar had clearly failed... Pakistan was getting tired of backing a loser and was looking around for other potential Pashtun proxies.&quot;  The Taliban's support for Jihad in Kashmir cemented their ties to Pakistan, while giving Pakistan plausible deniability.  By 1995 the Saudis were underwriting Pakistani efforts to aid the Taliban.  &quot;After the end of the Cold War, Washington's policy to [the area] was stymied by a lack of a strategic framework.  [It] dealt with issues as they came up, in a haphazard, piecemeal fashion... Between 1994 and 1996 the USA supported the Taliban politically through its allies Pakistan and Saudi Arabia, essentially because Washington viewed the Taliban as anti-Iranian, anti-Shia and pro-Western.&quot;  The US ignored the Taliban's fundamentalism.  From 1995 to 1997 a Unocal-sponsored pipeline and oilfield development plan enhanced US support.  Subsequently domestic pressure over women's rights, hosting bin Laden, and drug production have progressively soured US disposition towards the Taliban without motivating an interest in fostering peace or development.<br />An especially striking case of betrayal is recounted in the 1997-1998 battle for Mazar-E-Sharif.  Rashid Dostum was in command at the time.  He got his position in part by betraying his mentor, then-PresidentNajibullah, who has been installed by the Soviets on their way out.  Dostum's second-in-command, Malik Pahlawan, betrayed Dostum in May 19, 1997 to the Taliban.  The Taliban came in and, with Malik's help (and the fact that Dostum hadn't paid his troops for five months), took the city.  Dostum fled Uzbekistan then to Turkey.  Malik also turned over Ismael Khan to them.  On May 28, 1997 there was an uprising against the Taliban in which some 600 Taliban were massacred in the streets.  Malik was now in full control of four provinces.  But in September the Taliban counterattacked, Dostum returned from Turkey and defeated Malik, who fled to Turkmenistan.  All this infighting among the Uzbeks and the other members of the alliance made it easier for the Taliban to return the next year and alternatively beat and buy off the various factions and retake Mazar, after which they massacred inhabitants, especially Hazara, for two days.<br />The author, himself Pakistani, writes accessible English and draws from over 20 years of experience as a journalist covering Afghanistan. His first-person accounts of the major players on Taliban and anti-Taliban sides, as well as with parties in neighboring countries, adds to the depth of this book.  On Mullah Omar: &quot;A tall well-built man with a long, black beard and a black turban, Omar has a dry sense of humor and a sarcastic wit...  His shyness makes him a poor public speaker and despite the mythology that now surrounds him, he has little charismatic appeal.  Some Taliban say Omar was chosen for as their leader not for his political or military ability, but for his piety and his unswerving faith in Islam.&quot;<br />The transport Mafia; the destabilization of Pakistan; and the smuggling revenues that the Taliban taxes for its main income have also played their part in the tragedy that has made Afghanistan, like Somalia and so much of West and Central Africa, a failed state. Brief appearances by Henry Kissinger and Alexander Haig working on behalf of oil companies, trying to secure oil franchises and rights to build pipelines and drill for oil. give this book a little bit of everything for students (Taliban - sorry, couldn't resist the pun) of current events who want a deeper insight into Central and South Asia and the Islamic world, and the outsiders who meddle there.	2001-10-30
US	52843308	RT4ED2CA0RMKT	0521295491	763906559	A History of Islamic Societies	Books	5	55	59	N	N	The definitive one-volume treatment of Islamic Societies	The back cover claims this to be an &quot;[a]uthorative and comprehensive history of Islamic societies written for the general reader and student that will no doubt prove to be a classic work in its field.&quot;  I am happy to report that claim to be justified.<br />In clear and accessible style for college-level reading, Lapidus covers the Arab-Turkish-Iranian core as well as the African, Indian, and Indonesian periphery of the Muslim world.  He also touches on the ex-Soviet and Chinese Muslims.  The differences in political and economic organization are highlighted and contrasted, the variations of Islamic belief are explored, and the challenges of modernity are addressed.<br />If you're looking for a chronicling of dynastic politics, military vicissitudes, and 'great man' theories of history, look elsewhere.  If you want a comprehensive, balanced synthesis comparing Islamic societies for the last 1400 years, read this book.<br />After reading &quot;A History of Islamic Societies&quot;, consider moving on to Marshall Hodgson's three-volume set &quot;The Venture of Islam&quot;.	2001-10-30
US	52843308	RIRAKGTY1S9HD	0226041557	141842857	Terrestrial Ecosystems Through Time: Evolutionary Paleoecology of Terrestrial Plants and Animals	Books	4	10	11	N	N	It's as advertised -- and exhaustive and exhausting	&quot;Ecosystems&quot; is 500+ pages, and could easily be expanded to ten times that.  This is the first book I found to discuss all major life-bearing periods from an ecological standpoint.  <br />Minor nits: I wish  at least a couple of periods had been treated in depth.  The writing could  be a bit crisper.  And as a layman, I would have appreciated a glossary for  some of the words that don't show up in my Webster's Unabridged.	2000-06-28
US	52843308	R2JKGY6IEYUIFP	0521499526	550809231	Species Diversity in Space and Time	Books	5	6	11	N	N	Seral and evolutionary consideration well interwoven	Some chapter titles: Patterns in Space; Patterns in Time; Dimensionless patterns (body size, food chain patterns); Speciation; Extinction; Species-Area Curves; Energy Flow and Diversity<br />I have used this work as a  foundation for simulation modeling of biodiversity in seral and  evolutionary time frames.  It's intended as a textbook, though  knowledgeable lay people will find its richness rewarding.	2000-06-28
US	52843308	R2FH23S1NHXDCR	052131349X	987338197	001: The Sources of Social Power: Volume 1, A History of Power from the Beginning to AD 1760	Books	5	20	20	N	N	A superlative theoretical synthesis	This is one of the three most stimulating books I've read in the last 20 years.  Mann posits civilizations as overlapping networks of power -- ideological, military, economic, and political.  He described the extensive  and intensive capabilites of each type of network from place to place over  time, and is pretty good about minimizing any Eurocentrism, though there is  room for improvement.<br />Although written in an intensely academic style --  not a book for the faint of heart or the short of attention span -- it will  well reward the considered reader.	2000-06-16
US	52843308	R2611YRC3Q6NJV	1557863245	977634722	The Perilous Frontier: Nomadic Empires and China 221 B.C. to AD 1757 (Studies in Social Discontinuity)	Books	5	36	37	N	N	A fascinating recasting of the dynamics of Chinese history	Barfield's primary thesis is that the dynamics of Chinese civilization are not intelligible considered in isoloation.  Rather, comprehension requires the distinction between Manchurian and Native dynasties and the role that  empires of the steppe played in the changes between them.<br />Of special  interest is that by far the best know steppe empire, that of the Mongols  under Temujin and his successors, was an anomalous exception to the 2,000  year pattern.  Typical steppe empires were interested in extortion (or  tribute, or gifts, depending on who tells the story), not direct rule.<br />If  you're a student of Chinese history or of the dynamics of civilizations,  read this book.  You'll think differently.	2000-06-16
US	52843308	R38U28191D5GFP	0226346854	224722043	003: The Venture of Islam, Volume 3: The Gunpowder Empires and Modern Times (Venture of Islam Vol. 3)	Books	5	24	28	N	N	deep, rich, well considered and comprehensive	This review really applies to all three volumes.  Hodgson's work is not for those new to Islamic studies, and his writing style is complex.  Few are the sentences that lack at least one subjunctive clause.  But his  adoption of key Arabic terms in his narrative; his broad geographic sweep,  from Andalusia and the Sahel through Nile and Oxus to India and Indonesia;  and his comprehensive consideration of political, social, religious,  cultural, and economic aspects of civilization make for a series as broad  and deep as this student of history could want.  It took me several years  to read the whole set, as only recently did I have enough interest in the  artistic and philisophic (falsafah) traditions.	2000-06-16
