US	52849035	R1L5WDS612VPBP	1580170773	785765893	CloneBrews: Homebrew Recipes for 150 Commercial Beers	Books	4	41	42	N	N	Excellent recipe book	This book is primarily a recipe book, though it does contain some useful information (such as reculturing yeast from bottles) in the ten pages devoted to the brewing process.  The recipes comprise the bulk of the book and are divided by region, then country of origin.  All of the recipes are approximations of commercial beers (top-notch ones, though), so don't look for micro-brews or THE exact recipe here.  That being said, each recipe includes a brief paragraph about the beer, step-by-step brewing instructions (using malt syrup), and a side-bar containing mini-mash and all-grain alternate brewing instructions.  Finally, this book contains a useful appendix that includes a chart of beer characteristics, a hop chart describing various hops, charts describing various grains and sugars, and a beer style index.  This appendix makes it relatively easy to figure what grains to buy for which beer style, and vice versa.<br /><br />Overall, I highly recommend this book as a companion to one that covers more of the brewing process and equipment, such as William Moore's Home Beermaking.	2005-08-21
US	52849035	R1ISXBB15LSN42	0960531815	797465105	Home beermaking: The complete beginner's guidebook	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good overview of brewing process and components.	As a newcomer to home brewing, I looked at some of the books offered by my local brew store.  This is a short volume chock full of useful information on types of beers, brewing equipment, beer ingredients, the brewing process, basic recipes, problems, and an appendix of conversion tables.  While this book may not contain enough information for all readers to get brewing, most will find enough here to gain a confident knowledge in future shopping and/or conversations.  I would recommend picking up this one alongside a good book of recipes.	2005-08-21
US	52849035	R2RCVBS9JH1NC	0900841516	593782408	Brewing Beers Like Those You Buy	Books	4	5	5	N	N	An older work full of info	Dave Line originally published this book in 1978, a year before his death.  While a lot has changed, and some of the terms may seem a bit unusual for those of us on the American side of the pond, there really is a lot of good information here.  Of particular note is the number of great recipes here; though since the use of malt extracts were not as common twenty-five years ago, most of the recipes include raw grains and hops instead of the liquidized and pelletized versions more common today.  Thus, without a knowledge of how to figure the conversion ratios, newcomers such as myself may find themselves doing things a bit more of the \\"old-fashioned\\" way.  This is fine by me, but might be something to bear in mind if you are just getting your toes wet.	2005-08-21
US	52849035	R2W9FUCGTIMU3A	0596004036	993860716	Kerberos: The Definitive Guide	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Reasonably thorough introduction and guide, but needs updated	Like most O'Reilly titles, this book covers the general topics one needs to be conversant in a given topic.  Take what you read, do a few web searches, experiment with the technology, discuss the concepts with others - this book will give you a solid foundation to get started.  Moreover, like other O'Reilly topics one can see errata, etc. on the O'Reilly website.  This book easily meets the high expectations one has of a book from this publisher: conversational tone, lots of hands-on examples, and broad coverage of applications using this technology.<br /><br />There are really two areas where this book falls short: 1) while broad and general concepts of Kerberos are discussed, when the examples roll out little effort is given to explain the reasons behind settings, configurations, etc., and 2) as with many technology-related books this book could already use an update.  In terms of the former issue, I can see that it is difficult to cover the logic behind various implementations of Kerberos.  This book attempts to cover Kerberos implementations in Kerberos 4, Kerberos 5, MIT, Heimdal, Windows, and a bit of Mac OS X, as well as various applications that can use Kerberos such as Cyrus, OpenSSH, and Reflection.  There is a lot of material here: each of these applications could easily warrant an O'Reilly book of their own.  Moreover, these applications change over time (and rather short times, at that).  Thus, the second complaint: particularly in terms of OS X this book could use an updated version, though the majority of the text is still relevant.<br /><br />To summarize a bit here, if you are looking for cutting-edge info on security, implementation (such as in OS X), or applications, then this book will fall a bit short.  Further, if you are already well-versed in the Kerberos liturgy, there will be little to excite you here (though there may be some golden nuggets).  However, if you are a manager, someone who needs to quickly assimilate the vast information on Kerberos, or a junior system administrator then this book will be a valuable guide for you.  While it lacks the lowest levels of detail on Kerberos, this book should provide enough detail for the astute reader to find their way.on Kerberos, or a junior system administrator then this book will be a valuable guide for you.  While it lacks the lowest levels of detail on Kerberos, this book should provide enough detail for the astute reader to find their way.	2005-07-18
US	52849035	R2BT2KBSJ7J5V	0321278488	672167697	Apple Training Series: Mac OS X Help Desk Essentials	Books	3	16	16	N	N	Fine introduction for the new user, but a bit anemic for the exam	I used this book when studying for the ACHDS exam.  While I passed without a problem, I do have a few criticisms regarding how well it helped me prepare.  If you are using this book to prepare for the exam, then I would recommend supplementing it with David Pogue's Mac OS X: The Missing Manual, Panther Edition and perhaps Michael Bartosh's new Essential Mac OS X Panther Server Administration.  That said, what are the pros and cons of this book?<br /><br />This book would make a fine introduction for new OS X users, as it covers a wide variety of topics and does an excellent job of walking through each example (step-by-step instructions and useful screen shots).  It also includes a plethora of useful links to Apple technical articles that supplement the book nicely.  While I have years of Unix and Mac experience, overall I seemed to learn about one interesting fact/tip per chapter.  In terms of how its coverage fits in with the test, it will prepare you for the basics.<br /><br />In terms of criticisms, the book spends far too much time on simple tasks and trivial examples, while not spending nearly enough discussing the finer points of the command line and file system.  When I took the exam, I relied on my Unix and OS X experience rather than anything I learned from the book.<br /><br />Overall, the writing is clear and informative but I feel that it only provides about 75% of what a person would need to prepare for the ACHDS exam.  If you are a new OS X user, however, I would recommend this book as a fine introduction.	2005-07-02
US	52849035	R2UZ7LN9ONWDN6	0887309895	315694439	Dealers of Lightning: Xerox PARC and the Dawn of the Computer Age	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Excellent history of a major player in computing history	I found this an excellent, well-written overview of the history of Xerox's Palo Alto Research Center (PARC).  Not only are major players and products covered (the Alto, Smalltalk, Alan Kay), but the background and collateral history appears as well (DARPA, Vannevar Bush, J.C. Licklider, The Spacewar article in Rolling Stone).  Much like Steven Levy's book Hackers, reading this book makes you feel like an expert, like you were there.  Moreover, there is so much context and excitement, one feels compelled to find out more about the secondary characters mentioned.  Fortunately, electronic copies of such seminal pieces as the Spacewar article and Bush's \\"As We May Think\\" essay are easily found online, making quick diversions into supplemental reading not only of interest, but also possible and highly recommended.  That is the real beauty of this book: it provides enough information about other relevant topics without wandering too far down tangential paths.  I really felt that I learned a lot by reading this book, and my learning wasn't limited to Xerox PARC.<br /><br />That said, while there is a strong focus on the early history/founding of PARC, it seems that the more recent history is skimmed over if not omitted.  After the rich background I encountered in the book's early chapters, I felt as if things were moving a bit fast in the later ones.<br /><br />Bottom line: If you are interested in the history of computing then this is a must read book.	2005-06-28
US	52849035	R13QNLTHTG6JST	1841640476	434349404	The Blackberry Mouse (Embossed Books)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Heartwarming tale of a lesson learned.	In this story a selfish mouse learns a lesson about the value of friendship.  Greed (for tasty blackberries) and grumpiness (from picking said blackberries) lead Mouse to treat his friends badly.  Later, when he runs into trouble he expects them to return the treatment.  When they come to his aid, surprise changes Mouse's attitude and he learns the innate giving aspects of friendship.<br /><br />In terms of construction, this is a short book of 20 sturdy pages, all of which are beautifully illustrated and embossed, meant to be enjoyed by eyes and hands.  One cannot help touching the pages and examining the watercolor-soft details.  One note: the edition I have is the 2004 reprint for Borders, so I don't know if details vary.<br /><br />Regardless, I recommend this book.  It will make a fine keepsake.	2005-06-25
US	52849035	RL925PR6XF6HU	0066620732	490999440	Just for Fun: The Story of an Accidental Revolutionary	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fast, entertaining read on one of the heros of computing.	This book is an entertaining look at the life and philosophy of one of the most important figures in the recent history of computing.  The conversational style employed allows Linus to come through in an approachable, quirky manner while making the book itself a fast, enjoyable read.  Moreover, you do not need to be among the computing cognoscenti in order to understand this book.  Sure, a bit of technical background will provide a richer reading, but this is a book that the average person can sit down with and enjoy.<br /><br />The book introduces Linus and his family, their history, how Linus became an \\"accidental revolutionary,\\" and his thoughts surrounding this process.  Reading this is a bit like reading an interview, watching a home movie or two, and then topping it off with a few diary entries.  The result is that Linus comes off as a real person rather than the focus of a fan-book.  That Linus is so forthcoming with his faults, his self-effacing humor, and the mundane aspects of his past only strengthens this feeling.  Thus while reading this book won't make you an expert on computing, or even just the Linux operating system, it will give you a very solid understanding of a key figure.	2005-06-25
US	52849035	R3520GN8SNVQXB	1558511555	540292490	Tao of Objects: A Beginner's Guide to Object-Oriented Programming	Books	2	9	10	N	N	Good on ideas, bad on implementation	Basically, one can easily break this book down into two main parts:  a discussion of object-orientedness and an introductory how-to on OO programming techniques.  Within the first area, this book is pretty good.  All the basics of OO are covered: objects, methods, encapsulation, polymorphism, late-binding, etc.  However, there are some/several assertions one could argue with - mostly boiling down to what REALLY constitutes an OO language.  Perhaps part of the problem here is that the book focuses on what Entsminger calls hybrid languages - that is, non-pure OO - specifically C++ and Turbo Pascal.  This question ties into the second main thrust of the text, however.  Before moving into the other area, I would like to mention my main criticism of the author's discussion of OO, and that is that the attempt to relate the concept(s) to Taoism fail - indeed are perhaps distracting.<br /><br />Aside from discussing OO, the author attempts to demonstrate a methodology for implementing it.  There are several problems, and perhaps no real benefits, here.  First, the book is 15 years old and a lot has changed.  No real fault of the author there, and something that a new edition would resolve.  Second, the choice of languages are perhaps poor for a variety of reasons.  Today, most readers would likely consider C# and Java to be the best examples to use in the text.  Again, this is tied to the age of the book.  Yet there is another issue in the choice of languages, and here we see the author contradict himself: the languages are not pure-OO, and how they are implemented is even further from pure-OO.  The author encourages using these languages as hybrids, even using them as base C and Pascal.  This is an argument that rages on, but many contend that if you are going to use C++, for example, use it in OO fashion.  This is where the contradiction emerges since Entsminger recommnends, when learning a language, to choose a new problem instead of one you have already solved in non-OO fashion.  So how does one learn these new ways of thinking using a (relatively) familiar language, if that familiarity will tend to lead one down familiar paths?<br /><br />Further, I found the examples to be less than helpful.  If I was wanting to learn \\"how to write (half) procedural programs in an OO environment,\\" then perhaps my ears would perk up a bit.  As it stands, the snippets are generally too terse to be useful, and the longer examples are too long (and without real explanation) and poorly constructed to lend any real value.  Moreover, they aren't very portable (the C++ examples use conio.h - argh!).<br /><br />If you are looking for a basic introduction to OO, then this book may be worth perusing - at least the first few chapters.  In terms of suggestions, I would say that if the code samples were dropped, the emphasis on hybridity eliminated, and the Taoist metaphor explored further in a book of about 120 pages, then this could be a worthwhile reading.  As it stands, there are much better reads.on.  So how does one learn these new ways of thinking using a (relatively) familiar language, if that familiarity will tend to lead one down familiar paths?      Further, I found the examples to be less than helpful.  If I was wanting to learn \\"how to write (half) procedural programs in an OO environment,\\" then perhaps my ears would perk up a bit.  As it stands, the snippets are generally too terse to be useful, and the longer examples are too long (and without real explanation) and poorly constructed to lend any real value.  Moreover, they aren't very portable (the C++ examples use conio.h - argh!).      If you are looking for a basic introduction to OO, then this book may be worth perusing - at least the first few chapters.  In terms of suggestions, I would say that if the code samples were dropped, the emphasis on hybridity eliminated, and the Taoist metaphor explored further in a book of about 120 pages, then this could be a worthwhile reading.  As it stands, there are much better reads.	2005-05-17
US	52849035	R1F9P6FRXPLNB7	014009623X	156382324	Foe	Books	4	4	9	N	N	Not Coetzee's best, not Robinson Crusoe, but worth reading	First of all, a few background details regarding me, the reviewer.  Though Coetzee is a Nobel prize winner, the only book of his I have read is Disgrace, a dark, but rewarding, psychologically engaging novel(la).  Given that brief experience, I had high hopes for this work - hopes that were only partially unrequited.  Secondly, I read this immediately after finishing Defoe's Robinson Crusoe. Thus, I had certain contextual expectations in mind and - well, mileage may vary.<br /><br />That said, I think that this is a very interesting twist on the Crusoe story.  There are several levels at which the reader will likely reexamine Crusoe (particularly if the Defoe reading is fairly fresh).  Not only does Coetzee take on the authority of Defoe, but also Crusoe, and perhaps even his own protagonist, Susan Barton.  Moreover, the way in which Friday is employed (in the literary sense) raises interesting questions of colonialism, identification, and language.  While Defoe presents Friday as a rather capable cannibal, Coetzee shows us a mute victim of man's violence.<br /><br />The real weak spots of this work are that 1) it is a reinterpretation of an existing work, and these never really seem to \\"pull it off\\" (though this one comes closer than most), 2) given my limited reading of Coetzee, I am still quite capable of saying that this is not his strongest work, and 3) Coetzee tries to talk through a female character and, being male, I'm not sure that this really works.<br /><br />The above criticisms laid out, I would still recommend this book.  I would recommend (re-)reading Daniel DeFoe's Robinson Crusoe first, however.  I suspect that the typical reader will find enough interesting twists upon the original tale that both works will be stronger in the imagination afterwards.	2005-01-25
US	52849035	R1P634QMV6B25L	0670284742	564212228	The Dream of the Golden Mountains: Remembering the 1930s	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Another volume in Cowley's retrospective	Like many literary expatriates of the early 20th century, Malcolm Cowley had a tendency to examine and re-examine his life.  He started formalizing this process in his literary history of the 1920s, Exile's Return.  Years later, he looked back on the 1930's in The Dream of the Golden Mountains.  Taken together, these books show the shifts in thinking that were taking place in the first few decades of the 20th century.  Moreover, we see the shifts in Cowley's own life and (importantly) self-identification - an important background for explaining the later Cowley who helped edit Kerouac's On the Road.  Here is Cowley flirting with Communism, labor issues, and about everything else anti-thetical to the 1920's commitment to art and not much else.  And while it doesn't have the strength of storytelling nor the mix of characters of Exile's Return, the work is interesting in its own right, if for no other reason than for Cowlye's clear perceptions of the issues of his day.  Further, this is an important bridge to Cowley's later works and retrospects.  As time moved on, Cowley became less literary and more historically and critically oriented.  While he continued to produce occasional poems, producing two more editions of Blue Juniata, for example, it seems clear that Cowley was becoming less concerned with forging an identity (artistically) than determining and explaining how he fit into the present scenery.  Thus, this book also serves as a mile-marker in the shifting identity of Mr. Cowley.	2004-12-23
US	52849035	R2ORWTYDCEPWK9	0879381248	787613166	Mighty Mopars 1960-1974	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Comprehensive and interesting	I've had this book for years, but often find myself paging through it as if it were new.  There are really two components to a book like this, the writing and the photographs.  In this case, both are top-notch, comprehensive, and completely seductive.  These cars are great, and Tony Young shows and tells you why.  Here he covers Mopar from the early days to the last of the big breeds, including the racing program, the engineers, the marketing, the numbers, and the ratonale.  There are lots of interesting facts and stories here, and if you weren't a Mopar fan before reading this, you will be after.	2004-12-13
US	52849035	R3APF1W5C5NMZ6	0887309658	463217125	Apple	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Interesting to see the accumulation of "could haves"	While others have noted the writing style (tolerable - I've seen far worse), the book as a whole is rather thorough and interesting.  Granted, it was published before Apple's comeback, so there is (perhaps) too much emphasis upon the failures.  However, the accumulated \\"could have\\" stories are interesting fare, things that may have been overlooked in the tale of a successful company's history.  Here we see the flirtations with Sun, with Apollo, the AIM alliance and PowerPC, porting to x86 hardware, the Newton, and the spin-offs: webTV, Be, etc.  Using hindsight 20/20, it seems that Jobs is under-represented.  Yet, at the time of publication, I think that this book provided an accurate picture of how things seemed to line up.<br /><br />I recommend this book, particularly to Apple fans and those interested in the history of computing.  Additionally, this book is prime material for those interested in business blunders, particularly related to technology.  For the latter group, this book makes a fine companion to the history of Xerox PARC, Dealers of Lightning.  The works together provide a chilling view of how tecnhological innovation is often antithetical to business interests.  I think that Carlton's work alone can make one consider the fate of technology in the hands of \\"big business\\".	2004-12-08
US	52849035	R2X3D2CP8GPTCW	0782124682	842542603	Java 2 Complete	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Big, thick, cheap, but not a value	I purchased this book several years ago when I was learning Java.  I returned home from the bookstore and proceeded to read, and work, through the book.  Granted, there is a lot here.  Unfortunately, many of the examples were inaccurate (would not compile), the organization seemed faulty (not enough explanation of what was being accomplished until later, and even then it was often sketchy), and the underlying theory was nearly non-existent.  Move ahead five years and there is the added detriment that Java has changed over the years and releases.  There are deprecated classes and methods, innovations in thinking, and additional tools for development.  As much (or little) usefulness this book had when published has been eroded with the passage of time.  If you are looking for a reference, Sun has excellent documentation online.  If you are looking for a tutorial, there are better books as well as excellent online tutorials.	2004-12-08
US	52849035	R1NAN25JJKV86F	9998597080	402754152	Parliament Canada's Democracy	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Decent introduction to Canadian Gov't, especially for kids	I found this short work an interesting (if a bit Pollyanna-esque) introduction to both the Canadian government and its history.  The major components of the Government are introduced, explained, and contextualized.  Moreover, McTeer provides personal insight and sources for further information.  This seems to be an excellent resource for teachers and home-schoolers.<br /><br />The audience for this book appears to be 4-6th graders, although there is enough interesting material and writing to keep nearly anyone intersted.  Did you know that mice are recognized for their contribution to the war effort in World War I?  Did you know that a painting of Queen Victoria was saved from fire several times - once by a man whose father had previously saved it?  I found these stories interspersed throughout the book quite interesting.<br /><br />If you are thinking about moving to Canada, would like to teach your children about Canada, or are just curious about Canada, then this may be a great introductory text to read.	2004-12-08
US	52849035	R1BUTLAL3F9CBH	1565924487	56132163	UML in a Nutshell	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Standard "Nutshell" reference, but is this the best format?	When this book came out, it was an excellent reference in an area relatively devoid of literature.  Documents explaining UML (and OCL) were sparse, UML modeling tools were sparse (and proprietary), and the technology to \\"use\\" UML hadn't acheived the wide(r) acceptance and sophistication found today.  However, even within this context, one might have complained about the format.<br /><br />This book contains a fair bit of explanation and theory - one understands the difference between sequence and class diagrams.  Moreover, one cannot really complain about the books usefulness as a reference, though the low-level \\"nuts-and-bolts\\" information falls a bit short of other O'Reilly \\"Nutshell\\" books.  Yet, there is something missing in the middle.  One doesn't get how to move from A (introductory this-is-this and that-is-that) to B (how do I depict relationships between classes and interfaces).  In other words, one cannot read this book and begin jotting down ideas in UML - at least not easily.  My largest complaint is this lack of intermediate instruction - how to move past the basics so that one can take advantage of the reference nature of the book.<br /><br />However, that being said, I believe that this is a useful book to have in one's \\"zoo\\".  Further, it is interesting enough to read cover to cover - I did.	2004-12-08
US	52849035	RHNUK4YLMUFXH	0764549340	292106973	Jabber Programming (M&T Books)	Books	1	20	21	N	N	A Microsoft-centric guide to using jabber clients	First of all, the title here is misleading.  There are some snippets walking the reader through Visual Basic code, but the concepts and protocols (JEPs, XMPP, etc.) are noticeably absent.  I honestly was able to read the book in a couple of hours (nothing challenging or meaty here) and found it a waste of my time.  If you are having trouble installing Jabber clients, this may be a useful resource since the real focus of the book seems to be this very topic.  However, the information included is also dated.  Here is my recommendation:  if you are looking for a decent Jabber book, start with the O'Reilly one.	2004-12-07
US	52849035	R2GU1Z95A5K8TX	1903985366	196856161	Small Pieces Loosely Joined	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Waffles between erudite and pedestrian	This really is an odd book.  The best way that I can describe it is like Tom Wolfe revising a manuscript of which portions were written by Marshall McLuhan and others by Ray Kurzweil.  The author, David Weinberger, brings his broad knowledge and reading into play: Descartes, Gaston Bachelard, John Searle, history, philosophy, etc.  Likewise, he includes and interweaves technical information and figures such as Bob Metcalfe, one of the inventors of ethernet.  Weinberger does an excellent job of showing connections between various small pieces of information, thus forming an analogy to the web within his explanation of it.<br /><br />Yet, much of the book seems frivolous and pedestrian, so that it seems that a volume half the size would have conveyed the same information in a more satisfying, meatier meal.  Overall, I think that the book is interesting, and contains several good ideas, but find the writing, while clear, a bit too slow moving.  Moreover, there is a Jekyll and Hyde aspect to the way that Weinberger blends technical information with personal experience, leaving a feeling of disjuncture in the work.<br /><br />If you are looking for new ways to approach the web, then this book will fall short.  However, if you enjoy humanist responses to technology, found Kurzweil's The Age of Spiritual Machines interesting, and perhaps are a fan of Bachelard's The Poetics of Space, then Small Pieces should provide interesting, additional insight as well as a pleasant afternoon read.	2004-12-06
US	52849035	R1LRHMAKOKP42R	0766104222	920858365	Tertium Organum	Books	4	23	28	N	N	Arguable philosophy, but interesting historically	Ouspensky's philosophy may seem dated to some, but is interesting within its historical context.  At the early part of the century, physics, psychology, technologies and arts such as cinema, etc. were coming into the public consciousness.  Through the mediums of the phonograph, the photograph, and the film, time and space were fractured - one didn't need to be somewhere to experience something.  Our understanding of the nature of the universe had been undermined by physicists and mathematicians such as Planck and Einstein.  Moreover, theosophy had a large audience (a result of these factors, to an extent).  Within this mileau Ouspensky penned his work describing, to a large degree, how our perception played into things.  There is a fantastic section in the book where he describes (a very film-reel-like) rotating circle and how it would be perceived by someone in a one-, two-, three-, and four-dimensional world.  Then he explains that these perceptions could exist side-by-side, that it isn't the physical world that changed, but merely the perception.  Given how the world seemed to be changing radically due to an increasing understanding of it (or at least our models of it), such a conclusion, while elegant and genius in its own right, seems plausible.<br /><br />Ouspensky's interesting background helps explain his insight - he is an early \\"out-of-the-box\\" thinker.  He was a mathematician (logic, models, etc.) who was influenced by/a follower of Gurdjieff the mystic (a bit of the opposite of math, I'm afraid).  Moreover, Gurdjieff, or at least interest in him and his teachings, have a lot to do with Ouspensky sticking around to the extent he has.  People have explored him via their interest in Gurdjieff or later followers.  That is a shame, because I think that Ouspensky's ideas are worth consideration on their own.  If some seem dated, ridiculous, or quaint, look at the work of some of his contemporaries that are held in high regard (Freud comes to mind here).<br /><br />Another reason to consider this book, however, is its influence on a small number of influential people.  For example, the American poet Hart Crane was influenced by Ouspensky's Tertium Organum, and some references can be seen in his epic poem \\"The Bridge\\" (though they may be confused with some of the Blake references/influences).<br /><br />Overall, I recommend the book.  I found it challenging at times, but worthwhile reading.  I especially think that scholars of Modernism and/or Gurdjieff will find interesting material in it.  At the very least, it may change your perception of what people were thinking and discussing in the early 20th century.br /> <br />Another reason to consider this book, however, is its influence on a small number of influential people.  For example, the American poet Hart Crane was influenced by Ouspensky's Tertium Organum, and some references can be seen in his epic poem \\"The Bridge\\" (though they may be confused with some of the Blake references/influences).   <br /> <br />Overall, I recommend the book.  I found it challenging at times, but worthwhile reading.  I especially think that scholars of Modernism and/or Gurdjieff will find interesting material in it.  At the very least, it may change your perception of what people were thinking and discussing in the early 20th century.	2004-12-03
US	52849035	R17K1GIIDUQOGO	0140187766	879200271	Exile's Return: A Literary Odyssey of the 1920s (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Classic history of the Lost Generation	Cowley was many things: author, poet, editor, reviewer, American expatriate in Paris.  He was aware of his diverse past and constantly strove to contextualize himself within what was going on around him.  Exile's Return was his first such attempt.  In it Cowley recounts his experiences in such notable hot-spots as pre-war Greenwich Village and inter-war Paris.  Moreover, he examines the movements of which he was a part within larger historical/literary/artistic trends.<br /><br />There are some things to bear in mind with this work, however.  Cowley returned to his past often, and often his return would bring re-evaluation.  While there is some evidence of this habit across the various editions of Exile's Return, the trail of revision is more apparent by comparing this work against other retrospectives (Dream of the Golden Mountains, View From 80, etc.).<br /><br />Another issue with Cowley is that he (as most, especially Modernist, writers) tends to favor his own position.  That is, he perhaps exaggerates his own part and importance.  This tendency becomes controversial within the context of his chapter on Harry Crosby.  While they were clearly acquainted, Caresse Crosby (Harry's wife), among others, thought that Cowley didn't know Harry well enough to write what they considered a spurious account of Crosby's last days.<br /><br />However, even with these negatives the book is highly recommended.  In it, one gets a concise introduction to Modernism, important figures in the expatriate movement and inter-war Paris, and pre-war New York.  Further, one receives a context of how these movements and people fit together.  Among Cowley's works, this is one of his finest.	2004-12-03
US	52849035	R20CMR2Z41B0DN	0596001959	709166993	Learning the Korn Shell (2nd Edition)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A must if you use KSH	While not as popular (at least in Linux circles) as bash, ksh is a powerful language/tool.  Put bluntly, this is one of the few O'Reilly books I have read cover to cover.  That isn't to say that the others don't warrant a thorough perusal, but that this book was readily accessible and provided excellent information.  I have used it as a reference countless times over the years and do not hesitate to recommend it to anyone using or considering using ksh.  Moreover, if you are considering using ksh - or perhaps need a better background in Unix shell scripting - read this book.	2004-11-30
US	52849035	R2WJCZR55I9WRT	0596002890	531420016	Mastering Regular Expressions, Second Edition	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Wow!	This is one of the few O'Reilly books that I read cover to cover.  What?  A book on regular expressions read cover to cover?  If you have read the book, I suspect that you understand.  If not, read it.  Even a cursory skimming (if possible) will provide valuable information in HOW regular expressions work - the syntax, the underlying engine, differences in implementation.  Highly recommended.<br /><br />On a sidenote, the regular expression in the back of the book (a full page long) has been the topic of conversation in my workplace more than once.  I suspect that it will eventually become one of those \\"geek indicators\\" like the number 42 or PARC.	2004-11-30
US	52849035	R2YUUGW9SI1B94	0679743464	683839369	Hard-Boiled Wonderland and the End of the World: A Novel (Vintage International)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	A linguistic paradise - or prison?	As a student of language (English in my case) and linguistics, I loved this book.  It was recommended to me by my father-in-law who also seems to have loved it.  To over-generalize, it is a higher-brow version of Douglas Adams with a bit of Oe mixed in.<br /><br />Much like both of the above authors, there are intertwined sub-plots constituting the larger story.  Moreover, like the above, the reader (at least myself) begins to wonder about his or her own life.  What are the limits of perception, how much does linguistics define what we see?<br /><br />I highly recommend this book, it isn't a work quickly forgotten.	2004-11-30
US	52849035	R3N1SRTYGD9C3Y	0122334353	741696449	ASN.1 Complete	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Far more interesting than the protocol	I read this book cover to cover back when I had to deal directly with parsing ASN.1.  The book is an interesting read, excellently and expertly written.  Moreover, I felt like an expert when I finished reading it; I took my new-found knowledge and applied it to my work at hand.  Of course, there are portions of the book that are more theoretical than practical, and I didn't have the tools available to build ASN.1 parsers from rules.  However, ASN.1 is important despite the dearth of information on it.  This book doesn't merely fill the void - it makes a dry topic interesting.	2004-11-30
US	52849035	R370OLYXZINJ3T	0452270073	779881568	Regeneration	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Haunting	Despite being a long-time reader of several WWI poets (Owen, Brooke, Sassoon, etc.), I only got around to reading this book last summer (2004).  I found it an excellent interpretation of the times and people.  I think that the issues raised in the work are timeless, as apt today as yesterday.  Moreover, (risking some sense of gender neutrality) the book is hauntingly in tune with \\"maleness,\\" coming, as it were, from a female author.  In other words, this is a perceptive work, underrated despite any of the stars I might give it.  This is a book of interest to the casual reader and the scholar alike.	2004-11-30
US	52849035	R36I5D5M5FK9EH	0912946660	92344382	The Passionate Years (Neglected Books of the 20th Century)	Books	3	14	15	N	N	Important book, but take it with a grain of salt.	This book, being an autobiography, is really a mirror of Caresse Crosby: far from objective, not entirely trustworthy, and self-important.  Yet, it remains an important work for studying American literature in the 20th century, particularly if one is interested in expatriate Paris.  The book spans from Caresse's childhood, through her marriages (including - especially - Harry Crosby), noteworthy tales of her \\"partners in crime\\" (Kay Boyle, Salvador Dali, etc.), and her work (as a book publisher, most particularly).  After reading the book, one feels that Caresse is someone you can understand and anticipate, even if one cannot completely trust her.<br /><br />In terms of content, the stories are all probably at least partially true.  There is the story of how Caresse invented the brazziere.  There is the story of how she introduced Dali to the U.S.  There is her account of how she attempted to introduce the concept of paperbooks via Crosby Continental Editions.  Having been through the Crosby collections at Morris Library, Southern Illinois University, I can say that there is some truth to these stories.  Yet, I never felt that I could completely trust Crosby's accounts, even if she has an amazing power to lull the reader (and quite a few of her acquaintences)  into some sense of attachment.<br /><br />However, the basic history here is worthwhile.  That is, even if it cannot be completely trusted, the residue of truth contained sheds new light on her wide group of influential friends.  Moreover, there is a Hemingway-esque braggadocio in her writing - she is a fine author.  If one takes her autobiography as a work of literature similar to Kay Boyle's thinly veiled autobiographical fiction (My Next Bride, etc.), then Crosby compares nicely.  In fact, if viewed through the framework of fiction, one can easily extract the relevant history without being put off by Crosby's self-promotion.<br /><br />Overall, I recommend the book as either an introduction to the minor figures of 20th century expatriate Paris or as a work to round out a research library.  I would also consider the work as worthwhile general reading: Crosby is an interesting writer, and her (and Harry's) exploits should never disappoint.ures of 20th century expatriate Paris or as a work to round out a research library.  I would also consider the work as worthwhile general reading: Crosby is an interesting writer, and her (and Harry's) exploits should never disappoint.	2004-11-27
US	52849035	R3T559ZKY6TNG4	0500276382	474074169	Paris and the Surrealists	Books	2	2	3	N	N	A surrealist documentary	This book is an interesting experiment, partly a Surrealist documentary, it brings chance into the fairly predictable realm of history/autobiography.  George Melly missed the Paris heydey, but did manage to meet and get to know various figures associated with the Surrealists.  Moreover, Melly learned the history of Surrealism, and attempts to weave this history into a meaningful journey - much like the random journeys down the back-alleys such as the Surrealists enjoyed.  Yet, the narrative itself is only partially worthwhile.  If Melly was perhaps a larger figure in the history at hand, his story would gain in importance.  As it stands, however, his tale remains one man's description of his brush with fame.  The story is interesting only as a way of contextualizing the history.<br /><br />The other \\"half\\" of the book revolves the black and white photographs contributed by Michael Woods.  These images show a Paris relatively unchanged from the Surrealist era.  That is, one sees objects and images similar to what Breton, et. al, may have seen, and, occasionally, one glimpses places and structures that are indeed what the Surrealists saw.  Again, these images are an interesting way of contextualizing the history.<br /><br />What is interesting about the book, however, is the way that the images and writing interacts.  There is a deliberate attempt to juxtapose the two, yet there remains an element of chance in the success of these attempts.  At times one has a Joycean epiphany, at others one is left to try and decide how these disparate objects intersect, if they intersect at all.<br /><br />As an addition to a library on Surrealism, Surrealists, or 20th century Paris, this book may be worthwhile.  I would not recommend it, however, as a primary source for understanding the movement of or the people involved in Parisian Surrealism.	2004-11-21
US	52849035	R1ROFIU9FZ017I	0140161473	919399327	My Next Bride	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Early classic from an overlooked American Modernist	Published in 1934, My Next Bride is one of Boyle's first novels.  Like many of her works, the book is largely autobiographical.  While many of the details are changed, Boyle's early Paris years are chronicled fairly accurately.  Thus, one can see Raymond Duncan (brother of the famous dancer Isadora Duncan) in Sorrel, though Ida Duncan is here depicted as a dead wife rather than sister.  Likewise, Harry and Carresse Crosby are easily identified in the characters Antony Listerand his wife Fontana.  The power of these relationships, the disillusionment with Sorrel, and the affection toward Antony are driving forces in this novel, inasmuch as they were in real life:  Boyle had to escape from Duncan's house, kidnapping her own daughter in the process; and her intimate friendship with Harry Crosby was cut short after his suicide in December 1929.<br /><br />Yet, while Boyle's own history is interesting, particularly within the context of \\"Literary Paris\\" between the World Wars, what makes this novel worthwhile is Boyle's writing.  This is an early novel, so one can see her \\"finding her voice\\" - there are rough edges where the transitions are a bit abrupt.  Yet, the descriptive power of Boyle's language leaves one in utter awe at times.  Boyle has a knack for providing an image (no surprise given the advent of imagism in poetry), but also has a way of making her emotions so much a part of the text.<br /><br />Again, Boyle is often overlooked as a writer.  When she is recognized, it is usually as a caretaker or chronicler of her generation - a role largely due to her revision of Robert McAlmon's 1938 history Being Geniuses Together.  I recommenddelving into her other work: her poetry, short stories, and novels.  My Next Bride seems a great place to start since it introduces the reader to both her style and her history.	2004-11-21
US	52849035	R154N58WFJS0XT	1930974256	626906973	Ovid at Fifteen (Green Rose Series)	Books	2	0	2	N	N	Candid and Creepy	In Ovid at Fifteen, Christopher Bursk weaves father and son, child and old man together in a contemplative, candid, and melancholically creepy work.  Bursk seems to be contemplating his own sins in relation to those of his father, forging experience and mythology into a personal and unflinching series of poems.  Through Bursk's recollections, we see the disturbing, the personal, the thoughts and experiences laid vulnerable and bare, left for us to observe and contemplate.  Like Ovid, Bursk creates an unsettling mythology where the gods have been stood upon their heads.<br /><br />Despite the candor and mythologized sense of his past, though, Bursk leaves the reader (at least me) highly unsettled.  The graphic homo-eroticism of his recollections, particularly of his father and his youth, make the objective coolness of his classroom experiences (as a teacher) seem out of place.  As confessional poetry, I'm afraid the Bursk may have confessed too much.	2004-11-19
US	52849035	R21ZG8WK4NEYK6	0974452424	349970135	Forever Came Today	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A slide through the mud	Graham Lewis's book of poems, Forever Came Today, grabs the reader by the collar and drags him or her through the mud and lust of (in)humanity.  This collection contains a freakshow, and, like the character Marjorie from the \\"Our Lady of the Fields\\" sequence who yearns to \\"melt into a puddle of foul levee mud\\" and thus become like \\"all those filthy people,\\" the reader is both attracted to and repulsed by the characters.  Yet, the dirt and violence of these people is part of what makes them genuine; the earthiness of the poems imparts an honesty and simplicity that is wholly unchildlike.  Lewis leaves his characters and his language exposed and without shame.  Moreover, the use of vernacular and a sense of the absurd make this collection of poems acutely Midwestern.  The early circus and the hillbilly cousin combine in a spectacle that casts an eerie glance back to the reader, exposing the falsity of midwestern propriety. Ultimately, Lewis shows us our own deepest selves.  These poems are nervy, gritty, honest and highly recommended.	2004-11-14
