US	52852406	R3OSSDG63FXT9Z	1565844157	935469758	The Abandonment of the Jews: America and the Holocaust 1941-1945	Books	5	57	62	N	N	"Abandonment" is Probably the Wrong Word	Wyman's choice of a title is indicative of what is wrong with this book. However, there is also much right about it as well. \\"Abandonment\\" implies there was some sort of relationship to begin with between European Jews and and the United States. In order to \\"abandon\\" someone, you have to \\"leave.\\"  The US was never \\"there\\" to begin with.  To say that America \\"turned its back\\" to European Jewry during WWII implies that it once had its back NOT turned to European Jews...and this simply was never the case. It wasn't even the case within the United States. The U.S. paid lip-service to American Jewry by including a few in the Roosevelt Administration, a couple on the Supreme Court, but there was no truly significant Jewish influence even in the United States at that time.  Therefore this is a study of much more than simply the Roosevelt Administration.  It is a study of America and any study of America during the time after WWI through the mid 1960's must include an acknowledgement of American anti-Semitism. It reached its peak, ironically, during WWII.  FDR was the consummate politician.  He may have held sympathy for what was happening to the Jews of Europe - but he was a POLITICIAN!  And we all need to remember that. Had the American people demanded it, Roosevelt would have acted.  Better put, there was enough anti-Semitism to make rescue a \\"political impossibility.\\"  Politics is, among other things,  the \\"art of the possible.\\"  The real tragedy Wyman thus exposes is American anti-Semitism.  Most significantly (and unfortunately) in the State Department.  Wyman is \\"nice\\" (in my opinion) to Breckinridge Long, one of the most destructive anti-Semites in American History.   <br /> <br />It is sad to acknowledge that The United States of America couldn't muster the courage to drop a single bomb on the rail lines leading out of Hungary, or into Auschwitz-Birkenau.  One bomb would have done nothing to stop the Holocaust - but it would have spoken symbolic volumes about whatAmerica supposedly stood for.   <br /> <br />Anti-Semitism was bad in the United States at that time.  And anti-black racism was even worse.  As sad an episode as this was in US History (not simply the US failure to act symbolically or otherwise to rescue European Jewry - but also the internment of Japanese Americans in camps, and the relegation of blacks to driving trucks in the military) it did, in the longer run, finally force America to look itself in the mirror. <br /> <br />I consider this a \\"must read\\" for anyone even slightly interested in American History, especially the upheavals of the 1960's.  America \\"ignored\\" the Jews in Europe as it always had, and as it mostly ignored its own.  WWII set in motion events that forced America to live up to what it was supposedly fighting for in \\"The Good War.\\"   <br /> <br />This book is also valuable because it reveals the depth of the split within American Jewry over how to respond the mass killings.  That split certainly contributed to the ease with which FDR could concentrate on other issues besides The Jews of Europe...and thereby avoid any hint of a schism with Churchill.	2005-06-03
US	52852406	R11Z2534RA8ZVD	0195144031	89984256	Freedom from Fear: The American People in Depression and War, 1929-1945 (Oxford History of the United States)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Thorough and extremely well written study...	With W. Bush preparing to undo the last vestiges of the New Deal, whether you agree with him or not I can't think of a better time, and reason for reading this remarkable study by David Kennedy.   <br /> <br />     Kennedy debunks much of what the remnants of history have left most of us about Herbert Hoover. I think this was the most surprising part of the book because everything I had read, seen, or heard up until now left only negative impressions of the man. I have a both a new respect for Hoover as a man, dour though he was, and a clearer understanding of why he failed as a politician. I also have a fresh reminder of how nothing is really original - FDR borrowed much of the New Deal from Hoover.  But where Hoover couldn't make the ideological leap from good ideas that were to be voluntary only with only minimal government assistance, FDR was amenable to trying anything, including transformational ideas such as mandatory business compliance with Federal regulation, an evening-up of the playing field between business (which had corporatized) and labor (which until FDR hadn't the power to do the same) and labor, to massive government spending. Although FDR didn't understand Keyensian economics, he nevertheless proved the theory.  <br /> <br />    FDR defined the \\"general welfare\\" clause of the Constitution, and left a legacy that has affected every single one of us ever since, and continues to do so today. <br /> <br />    Beside the in-depth look at the Great Depression, Kennedy also provides a survey of WWII, debunking many more myths along the way, and exposing the beginnings of the cold war in FDR & Churchill's unkept promises to Stalin about the opening of a second front in Europe. <br /> <br />I consider this a \\"must read\\" for anyone who considers him/herself interested in American History.	2005-03-29
US	52852406	R1WPPMB8VBBHA6	0449909336	378723538	The Fifties	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Want to understand the 60's?	If you want to understand the upheavals of the 1960's then don't miss this superbly written look at the 1950's by David Halberstam.  From the beginnings of the \\"liberal consensus,\\" the beginnings of the Civil Rights movement, and through the Eisenhower Administration the seeds of upheaval were all sown during the decade we mostly remember as slow, innocent, and eventless.  Halberstam has done an excellent job of showing us how skewed our memories can be. I was especially taken in by the onset of Madison Avenue's  packaging of presidential candidates beginning in 1952, and also the look at the manipulation employed by Richard Nixon in his famous \\"Checkers\\" speech (seems like he got the idea from \\"Queen for a Day\\") and his use of his wife Pat for that purpose.	2004-12-15
US	52852406	R240MPXS2JABHL	0803292945	434193814	The Dull Knifes of Pine Ridge: A Lakota Odyssey	Books	5	13	14	N	N	American Indian History	From the perspective of two generations of Dull Knifes (Guy Sr. and Jr.) the reader is given a 5-generation perspective on just about every important challenge faced by the Lakota/Oglala Sioux and Northern Cheyenne. There is more impact in reading this story than from reading a history book because these are real people telling their real stories which keeps within the Indian tradition of oral history.  Most important, is the theme of resistance/persistence which runs throughout this history into the present day, emphasized by the obvious - 5 generations of Dull Knifes and still going.  Highly recommended.	2003-08-05
US	52852406	R2XOKP5A547FE9	0809324253	471997400	Harry Truman and Civil Rights: Moral Courage and Political Risks	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Doesn't Do The Subject Justice	Gardner has examined one facet of Harry Truman, probably the most important and significant facet of Truman's time in office, which was his willingness to risk power for a moral imperative - the equality of all Americans. Even though David McCullough talks about it in his book \\"Truman,\\" HST still has received far too little credit for his role as a major catalyst of the modern civil rights movement, mainly because it didn't \\"take root\\" for about ten years after he left office. But this in no way detracts from the significance of Truman's courage, which was demonstrated by his willingness to split the Democratic party and thereby risk the 1948 election for what he felt was something that was not only politically necessary, but, quite simply, morally right (although unpopular). It was HST's Civil Rights Commission and his Executive Order integrating the armed forces that finally gave the US Civil Rights movement the inertia it needed to overcome the gravity of American tradition which was still flourishing in the form of \\"Jim Crow.\\" <br />I was not especially impressed by the writing skills of Gardner. There is far too much repetition, and not enough anecdote...especially about the African American servicemen who were being lynched as they returned from WWII. It was this inconceivable injustice that provided the moral imperative that struck Harry Truman so hard and caused him to take the steps he took. As a result, WWII became THE seminal event in 20th Century US History.	2003-05-22
US	52852406	R3IE1700R1113D	0802138527	978333679	Stilwell and the American Experience in China, 1911-45	Books	5	4	9	N	N	Another Tuchman Masterpiece	This book was published in 1972 during the middle of US involvement in Vietnam.  It must have been tough for many of the politicians of that time (and many other observers) to see the parallels to the mistakes the US made in pouring money into Chaing Kai Shek (Jiang Jieshi) and what we had done and were doing with the Diem/Thieu regimes in South Vietnam. The books is important today, not only for the perspective it provides into the evolution of American paranoia of Communism in the late 40's, 50's nd 60's, but we still have a propensity for pouring money into questionable regimes that do not have popular support simply because we are afraid of what the popular support might produce. But as Tuchman clearly demonstrates, sooner or later it happens anyway, no matter what we do.	2003-05-05
US	52852406	RMLBA0AD5ZN09	0375508260	649819248	Paris 1919: Six Months That Changed the World	Books	4	6	10	N	N	Intensely Significant - Strange Conlusion	Paris 1919, by Margaret Macmillan, ought to be required reading for anyone alive in 2003. A previous reviewer entitled his \\"An overlooked historical event of importance,\\" which, in my opinion, is a rather large understatement. The Balkan Wars of the 1990's (and most recently the assasination of the Serbian Prime Minister) were/are a continuation of the conflicts that the \\"band-aid\\" called The Treaty of Versailles tried to fix. So is the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. So too was the fundamentalist revolution in Iran in the early 1980's (remember The Ayotollah?) that propelled Ronald Reagan into power. And don't forget Iraq! The country of Iraq was created by the treaty...another \\"can of worms\\" held in check under the point of a gun, just like Yugoslavia. (Yugoslavia was conceived at Versailles and it didn't work either). Arab nationalism ignored, Kurdish nationalism never addressed, American idealism vs. isolationism, British Imperialism, French Colonialism and the other two extremes of timidity and paranoia (you think this is new?) jump out at you from the pages of this book. Oh yes - did I leave out Bolshevism? - that's in here too! (It wasn't created by Versailles, but it certainly affected the decision-making.) <br />This is history the way it ought to be written. The subject of each chapter is a major field of study, yet each superbly written so that anyone with even a cursory understanding of world history can follow it. Best of all, each chapter is concluded with a time-line right up to the present making it easy to trace how today's world (and our lives) have been, and are continuing to be, influenced by what took place in Paris - in 1919. <br />Macmillan's conclusion is, in my opinion, a little odd. She goes easy on the peacemakers, claiming that they did their best. I agree with her on that. But I disagree with her claim that WWII would have happened anyway, Versailles or no Versailles. Macmillan contends Hitler would have wanted living space, and would haveexterminated the Jews no matter what. But she downplays that without Versailles, and most importantly how the treaty was perceived by the Germans (as humiliation), not how it was actually adminstered or not administered, was what created the collective state of mind in Germany which allowed a Hitler to easily come to power.<br />The best that can be said for The Treaty of Versailles is that it was a \\"learning experience,\\" a series of (at best) under-thought-out solutions, or (at worst) momentous mistakes made by a small, powerful group of well-intentioned humans - with emphasis on the word \\"humans.\\" For human they were, as this book unabashedly reveals.<br />What we learned from Versailles was how NOT to make a peace. The US did learn from those mistakes - graphically illustrated by its adoption of the Marshall Plan after WWII, its entry into the UN, and its rebuilding of Japan.<br />What is happening in the World today...Arab nationalism in the form of terrorism and Islamic fundamentalism, the Balkans, Iraq, Israel & The Palestinians are all leftovers from the fall of the Ottoman Empire after WWI and the Treaty of Versailles. The cultural, religious, and political conflicts are still being played out on the world stage after, in many cases, years of suppression amid the bi-lateral nuclear standoff known as the Cold War. <br />We did much better after WWII in regards to Europe and Japan. Let's hope we do better now in regards to the Middle East. To illustrate how difficult the peacemaker's job was in 1919, one only has to look at the complexities of today beause they haven't changed much. There needs to be an Israel. There needs to be something other than the oppressive ruling families in the Arab kingdoms. There needs to be someplace for the Kurds. The Arab countries need to join the 21st century. Cultures that have clashed for thousands of years need to live in close proximity to each other - and somehow get along without threatening the entire world.<br />So howmany of you out there think we should go blasting our way into Iraq as a start toward addressing all these complexities? By a show of hands, I see its about even. Which only goes to prove that hindsight is easy, and I commend Margaret Macmillan for presenting a different point of view about the value of the work done by the peacemakers in 1919. (The previously held prevailing wisdom was that they were a collection of bumbling idealists and failures). But even though I agree with her that Wilson, Clemenceau, and Lloyd George may have done the best they could given the enormity of the changes taking place in the world in which they were living and that it all was new, I remain convinced that if Versailles had reflected the actual outcome of WWI (it was, more or less, a tie) then three or four years of diplomacy (rather than 6 months) would have, could have, and should have, prevented WWII. The world could have learned by 1919 the lesson of the Treaty of Austria. (Leniency does not breed the humiliation that breeds contempt, that breeds war.) Now it is up to us, those who have inherited Versailles,as Macmillan accurately points out, to pick up the baton and create situations in which the world can work.	2003-03-09
US	52852406	R4PL441HMU82	0345308239	162225088	The March of Folly: From Troy to Vietnam	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Studying History Can Be Frustrating	Barbara Tuchman was probably getting frustrated by the time she wrote March of Folly. Because anyone who studies history learns early on just how much of human history is, well, folly. In this work, Ms. Tuchman focuses on four graphic examples of it. Sometimes the fabulous human follies actually works out (such as the American Revolution which worked out well enough for us if not for the British!) but most times it doesn't, such as Viet Nam. Nowhere will you find such a clear, relatively brief, yet very accurate and readable history of how the U.S. found itself stuck in that debacle than in this fine work. Many will be surprised how far back our involvement went, and that it wasn't all Lyndon Johnson's fault...although our involvement was brought to its inevitable climax (and failure) under his watch. So if you aren't interested in the other three \\"follies\\" Tuchman examines (Troy, The causes of the Protestant Reformation, The \\"loss\\" of America by the British) then, as another reviewer has suggested, read it for the Viet Nam part alone. <br />So how many of you think we're headed into a \\"folly\\" in Iraq? Hmmm - I see the show of hands is just about even. Which also goes to prove (once again) how easy it is to find folly when you have the luxury of hindsight. Nevertheless, Tuchman implores us to continue to try to learn from the past.	2003-02-08
US	52852406	R3ATY7EO5DGH2K	158574154X	221572203	A Man Called Intrepid	Books	4	5	9	N	N	Couldn't Put It Down	A little choppy in places, but all in all very enjoyable reading. If you liked &quot;Bodyguard of Lies&quot; (Anthony Cave Brown) you'll like this too!<br />I keep wondering if the democracies are still capable of producing men and women of such incredible bravery and selflessness. I hope so, because it looks as though we are going to need them again.	2002-12-31
US	52852406	R38B5E5Z8QY19M	0394749138	152594585	Civil War Volumes 1-3 Box Set	Books	3	99	121	N	N	Certainly, this is a	No doubt about it, if you really want to know about the Civil War, you can't ignore Shelby Foote's tome. I agree with several other reviewers, however, that this is \\"nuts and bolts\\" about each and every battle which will tickle the fancy of those interested in knowing them. But for all the gazillions of pages and (obviously) years of work Shelby Foote put into this unequaled effort, there isn't as much as I had expected about the politcal and social aspects of the war.<br />Structure is too often a problem. Not only, as a previous reviewer notes, are there references to details mentioned once 400 pages earlier, but keeping track of Foote's ideas is difficult even in single sentences. He is, undoubtedly, the master of \\"nesting\\" several subjects into one l-o-n-g sentence. He will start out with a subject, then add necessary information to that subject after starting out to talk about it (rather than before), and then, eventually, many \\"commas\\" later, gets back to saying what he originally set out to say about the original subject -- which makes you go back and re-read the whole sentence (sometimes paragraph) over and over again so you can follow the flow. (This sentence is a mild example!) This sort of \\"super-digression,\\" although grammatically correct, gets to be a chore.<br />Foote's work is written with obvious sympathy for the South, while, at the same time, is careful not to understate the legitimacy of the North's cause. Not much about how the South won the peace even though they lost the war. Andersonville isn't mentioned except at the very end, and only in passing when a reference is made to its commanding officer. The message Foote sends is that he was wrongly executed.<br />Regarding books about the Civil War, I am a bigger fan of McPherson's work (Battle Cry Freedom) for several reasons. But if you really want to immerse yourself in the details of the battles, and if you really want to experience the impact of just about each of the 600,000 lives lost, and you want to learn how deep the \\"peculiar institution\\" was ingrained within a people, so much so that even the loss of so many lives would not result in any definitive change in that way of life (which explains in part why there was another 100 years tacked on to the war after the shooting stopped), don't miss reading Shelby Foote!you want to learn how deep the \\"peculiar institution\\" was ingrained within a people, so much so that even the loss of so many lives would not result in any definitive change in that way of life (which explains in part why there was another 100 years tacked on to the war after the shooting stopped), don't miss reading Shelby Foote!	2002-12-15
US	52852406	R26T35ILDXXC7P	0345336674	648030464	The First Salute	Books	5	79	83	N	N	Finally, the Real Revolutionary War	I'd like to say that Barbara Tuchman saved her best for last, and in many respects, she did. However there will be many out there who will not appreciate the slow build-up of The First Salute. Like a sailing schooner waiting for a breeze before finally being able to move, Ms. Tuchman's account of the American Revolution mirrors her main subjects - the French fleet, and that of the Englisman Sir George Brydges Rodney. More than once were they all stuck somewhere in their ships waiting (seemingly forever) for a wind so they could get underway. I felt like this book was waiting to get \\"under sail\\" too, mainly at the beginning. But I think you will find that not only is the wait worth it, but once you finish the book, you will realize just how brilliant the author really was in chosing this method to effectively drive home her points by clever use of point of view - Despite what Disney would have us belive, the Americans didn't rally to fighting or winning this war. Congress was as slow, and often made as little sense then as it seems to do from time to time now - Washington was a miracle worker for somehow keeping an army on the field at all. The American Revolution was won by French and Dutch money, and mainly the French military (yes it was fought by many brave Americans too, but there was too much apathy, too much self-interest, and there were too few in number to ever WIN it). Through the story of Rodney, the reader is given a unique perspective from which to witness the incredible mismanagement of the war by the British, insight into those self-destructive practices and entrenched egos that characterized monarchy, and just how close this war was to being lost and how easily it could have turned out differently. Tuchman also does not miss the chance to remind everyone just how far we still have to go to live up to those principles for which the war was supposedly fought - The end of her Epilogue will knock your socks off. All in all, another treasure from Barbara Tuchman.	2002-04-15
US	52852406	R255925DX0K77J	0679764410	864803147	American Sphinx: The Character of Thomas Jefferson	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Jefferson defined?	OF COURSE, if you don't expect a schematic of a human being. To the extent that you can &quot;define&quot; anyone, Ellis has. Ellis, like others before him, falls into the trap of trying to explain the inexplicable contradictions that existed within Jefferson - but seemingly profound contradictions live within all of us. Why not inside of Jefferson?  Some of Ellis' &quot;obervations&quot; should best be left to a psychiatrist.  For me, I don't need to psychoanalyze Jefferson - I need to simply learn about the things he did and didn't do, the context of his times, the pressures he was under, etc.  Ellis does a marvelous job of relaying all that information in a very readable style.  (Ellis still uses the word &quot;propitious&quot; way too much - gotta wonder about his editor(s) sometimes....)  Why so many of us are continually perplexed by Jefferson's (seeming) internal contradictions any more that we are perplexed about anyone else's I'll never know. Simply put, Jefferson's contraditions made sense to him!  Maybe our fascination with his &quot;contraditions&quot; stems from what we (and posterity) have made Jefferson into. FDR and Eisenhower would have certainly &quot;voted&quot; to do away with the de facto &quot;apartheid&quot; that existed during their time - but they didn't have the power to do so, they were politicians and knew they didn't have the power to do so, and, voila, they both participated in segregation like everyone else did.  What they did in their time, Jefferson did in his.  Because Jefferson wrote (emphasize WROTE) &quot;all men are created equal&quot; was (in itself) an amazing piece of political legerdemain. Jefferson took advantage of the times and GOT the IDEA out there (along with several other ideas).  That was remarkable all by itself.  We're STILL trying to figure out what they all of his ideas mean and how they all fit. It only took us about 200 years to figure out the easy one, and there are many of us still working on THAT one!  All in all, a nice job here by a good writer -maybe goes a bit too far trying to explain that which doesn't need to be explained and overcomplicates some other issues.	2002-03-10
US	52852406	RRECI06VQ77TP	0385499345	475272008	The Lexus and the Olive Tree: Understanding Globalization	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Must Read for Our Times	You may not agree with everything Friedman has to say in this book, but that has nothing to do with why you need to read it. For Friedman fingers with uncanny accuracy the greatest threat to the west, the U.S., and Capitalism in general when he identifies the potential (now kinetic) destructive energy seething within &quot;the super-empowered individual(s),&quot; who are a clear product of our times and technology. (The anarchists were with us at the turn of the last century -- but they didn't have the technology of today, and they shunned organization. All they had were hand-held bombs). Friedman wrote this book well before 9/11/01. Its pretty tough, therefore, to argue a whole lot with someone who was this &quot;right on target.&quot;  And his being &quot;right on target&quot; ought to make all of us think long and hard about the rest of things he has to say.<BR>The topics he covers in this book could easily have taken volumes to write. Indeed, the economic, political, and social aspects discussed are each, in and of themselves, complete areas of study for Ph.D's and other individuals. But if one wanted to set out to convey to the &quot;rest of us,&quot; in as simple a form as possible, the inter-relation of all these considerations there are few who could have pulled it off as successfully as Friedman has in this book. Be prepared for some &quot;stream of consciousness&quot; writing -- Friedman really gets on a roll. <BR>There is only one major point that he makes that, in my opinion, remains much more debatable than Friedman perceives, and that is the importance of the internet to globalization.  Friedman wrote this book when it &quot;looked like&quot; the internet was going to be the equivalent of the invention of the wheel.  And in many respects, the interntet and email has certainly increased the speed at which we can communicate, and transactions can take place. But when you think about it -- it hasn't sped things up all that much. The bursting &quot;bubble&quot; of the internet is proof of that. The increased speed at which communication and transactions can take place was happening pretty fast (and faster everyday) anyway -- internet or no internet. Therefore, the point he is making is not only valid, but certainly the internet has added to these capabilities.<BR>Friedman manages to discuss some very complicated economic, political, and social considerations by using metaphors such as &quot;the golden strait jacket,&quot; and the &quot;electronic herd.&quot; You might need to read his definitions of all these simple terms over a few times before proceeding. But once you have them conceptualized, the use of these short, simple comparisons does help one to understand some very complicated and important issues.  But you better know what an &quot;operating system&quot; is before you start or you won't be able to follow much of what Friedman is talking about. In other words, if you are computer illiterate, you're going to have more trouble gleaning Friedman's points than if you are computer literate because he uses a lot of computer terminology as metaphors.<BR>In the end though, he was absolutely &quot;on target&quot; about the present danger to the world. So agree or disagree, I wouldn't dismiss his observations easily. The man obviously knows what he is talking about.	2001-11-08
US	52852406	R1KN4GOYDNX70L	0684804484	22414532	No Ordinary Time: Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt: The Home Front in World War II	Books	5	7	9	N	N	No Ordinary Biography	Doris Kearns Goodwin has given us a treasure in &quot;No Ordinary Time,&quot; a vivid, intimate, informative, and readable biography of FDR and Eleanor during the WWII years, as well as a history of the time itself. This book is doubly relevant now, because since 9/11/01, we too are living in anything but an &quot;ordinary time.&quot;  We don't know what is going to happen next, and neither does anyone else...including the White House.  In their time, neither Franklin nor Eleanor knew what was coming next.  The anxiety and weight of responsibility certainly took a toll on both of them.  Kearns is unabashedly a fan of both FDR and Eleanor, but this does not prevent her from revealing their weaknesses as well as their strengths.  Highly recommend.	2001-10-19
US	52852406	R2ZCGJ4TDQRROW	0393317552	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Outstanding Study - Thought Provoking	I read this book before taking the History of Western Civilzation, and before taking US History. I have quoted it no less than a dozen times in various papers I have written. And I am certain I will continue to use it as a reference for many years to come.  If you're not really interested in History as a discipline, this might be tedious for you. But if you are interested in how we got here, repeating themes throughout the ages, and very plausible explanations and deductions about why the world is the way it is, this study is a great place to start.<BR>There is only one possible assumption made in this book that could eventually prove wrong.  Just as every other historian that I know of has claimed, Diamond buys into the population of the Americas by East Asians who crossed Beringia and eventually migrated south. Certainly, this is a plausible assumption.  But just as I finished this book, word came out of South America of discoveries at some archeological dig that provided evidence that ancient Amerinds might have a different origin..which is the one assumption I kept questioning as I was reading the book. If this turns into solid proof, it means that humans might have spontaneously evolved in the Americas at about the same time they spontaneously evolved in the Fertile Crescent. It will be interesting to follow these new archealogical clues as we learn of them. But even if this turns out to be true, it won't, in my opinion, have much effect on the major points that Diamond makes in this book.  The Europeans still came over with the Guns, Germs, and the Steel -- so much for the mass of Native Americans.	2001-09-30
US	52852406	R2S5J4CIKY0KYR	0684811073	646280776	Undaunted Courage: Meriwether Lewis, Thomas Jefferson, and the Opening of the American West	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Much Better Than The Movie!!!	I fell asleep twice trying to watch Ken Burns' &quot;Lewis and Clark&quot; on PBS. Conversely, I stayed up way too long at night turning pages of Ambrose's book - simply because I couldn't put it down. This is history the way it should be written - an important subject brought graphically to life in a form that is interesting, understandable, and entertaining. As for Ken Burns' video - I decided to travel the trail and see what it looks like for myself. Not thanks to Burns, but thanks to Ambrose.	2001-08-30
US	52852406	R8MOKDXMBVTRE	0671673343	705619047	D-Day June 6, 1944: The Climactic Battle of World War II	Books	5	1	3	N	N	D=Definitive	If you are interested in what D-Day was really all about, why the allies won this decisive battle, and how the Germans lost it, this wonderful work by Ambrose is the definitive book on the subject. Ambrose's major insight is one I hope this country never loses sight of - the battle of the Atlantic Wall was won by junior officers in the field who stepped up and made decisions when their superiors went down. The fact that these boys (and most were boys) in itself emphasized a basic difference between a totalitarian state, in which no one could make a move without approval from their superiors, and our democracy, where the opposite was the case. Ambrose believes strongly that it was our democracy - our form of government - that created the culture that allowed this to happen, thereby laying the foundation for our victory in this decisive battle. Our massive bureaucracy of today would be well advised to recall this virtue. (It seems as though these days no one can make a decision in government without approval from Washington). Besides being a wonderful history of the event, this book is a great traveling companion for anyone planning a visit to Normandy.	2001-08-30
US	52852406	R38B73I5Q4JT0O	0393304124	604008127	Present at the Creation: My Years in the State Department	Books	5	6	8	N	N	If you liked McCullough's &quot;Truman...&quot;	McCullough's &quot;Truman&quot; taught many of us about the beginnings of the cold war and the nuclear age. If this book isn't as &quot;entertaining&quot; as McCullough's book about Harry Truman (not many writers are as entertaining as David McCullough) it is certainly a &quot;must read&quot; if you want to fully grasp what Harry Truman's presidency was all about, the gravity of the problems it faced, and how cold war policies came into being. Also the &quot;creation&quot; of NATO - a subject quite relevant nowadays. Acheson was indeed a marvelous writer, and this work offers tremendous insight into what went on &quot;at the creation&quot; of Cold War politics. Acheson was a brilliant individual (Truman certainly recognized the combination of political talent and genuine humanity when he saw it). Acheson withstood a lot absolute trash thrown at him by McCarthy and his cohorts, ironically so, since it was Truman's original policies that opened the door to that sort of thing. But survive it all he did, (and so did we) and as a result posterity has lots of good things to say about this wonderfully creative and far-sighted patriot. This book fills in many of the details that &quot;Truman&quot; simply didn't have room for, a biography written by a man we learned far to little about in school and college.	2001-08-30
US	52852406	RI9YJ73BAL2K9	0671671561	875315522	Pegasus Bridge: June 6, 1944	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Take This Book With You To Normandy	I don't know what I can say about this marvelous work other than to advise anyone heading for Normandy to take this book with you. We were lost trying to find our way from Honfleur to the far eastern beaches when - VOILA - , there was Pegasus Bridge! It was the first D-Day sight we saw, and fittingly so, since it was the first battle of D-Day. Seeing the place so vividly described by Ambrose was haunting, made so by the personal stories relayed in this book. Seeing the memorial to Den Brotheridge brought the whole thing home - right between the eyes.	2001-08-30
US	52852406	R32YQ1UGECTBQ3	0345349571	162225088	A Distant Mirror:  The Calamitous 14th Century	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Its Scary Looking In the Mirror!	Barbara Tuchman is without question one of the finest history writers that I have ever read, and &quot;A Distant Mirror&quot; is another fine example of a work by someone who was extremely gifted at her craft. Not only the writing, but the research, insights, and obvious parallels to the similarities of human beings of the 20th Century makes this a &quot;must read&quot; for anyone interested in history.  I was especially taken by the section about the persecution of the Jews.  Most think the 20th century Holocaust was a one-time, inexplicable event. Not so. Ms. Tuchman's one section on this issue has recently been expounded upon (in a more personal way) by James Carroll's in his book &quot;Constantine's Sword.&quot; Tuchman's insights certainly lend credibility to Carroll's points. <br />Looking in the mirror can sometimes be scary. Although progress has been made in many areas, human nature itself hasn't changed much since the 14th Century.	2001-08-17
US	52852406	R3E4WJB4L8CKC3	0491016360	277137033	Bodyguard of Lies	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Riveting	A relative &quot;turned me on&quot; to this book. Yes, it is out of print. But if you haven't read it - go find it. I found a copy through Amazon, and what a value ...! Brown takes his readers into the bowels of espionage, counter-espionage, and a host of &quot;immaculate deceptions&quot; concocted by those who became responsible for the success of Allied efforts during WWII. Beyond the riveting stories of mystery and mayhem created by MI-5, MI-6, the OSS, and even Churchill himself who loved this sort of thing, Brown explains WWII politics, including the cement-head of Charles DeGaulle, and the political implications of the post WWII era that were being considered in all quarters well before the end of the war. Not to mention an in-depth study of the &quot;Shawarz Kapelle,&quot; the conspiracy within Germany to do away with Hitler. <br />The success of D-Day, the effects of D-Day not only on the soldiers who fought but also and especially upon those who planned the operation, the successes and failures of many deceptions designed to keep the Axis guessing, are all described in detail. D-Day was the culmination of the games, ruses and set-ups that had been going on for almost four years.<br />If you haven't read this book, don't let the 1976 pub. date deter you. This is a must-read for anyone interested in WWII, WWII politics and post WWII politics, and anyone interested in learning about the lengths nations would go to in order to achieve deception.	2001-08-12
US	52852406	R16CVJS7VCO2KA	0826211712	184411130	The Dying President: Franklin D. Roosevelt, 1944-1945	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Worthwhile reading for our times	Some have written that Ferrell's work is sloppy and depressing. I disagree.  Ferrell does an excellent job of showing 21st Century readers just how different this country was 50 years ago. That the entire country could look at Roosevelt during his last run for office - and know that he was a dying man - and not know it at the same time, is amazing.  This is the same country that couldn't deal directly with a President in a wheel chair. The country knew it, but didn't know it, all at the same time. How different was the relationship between the press and the White House!  <br />The purpose of this book is not simply to drive home the point that Roosevelt was a dying man when he ran for a fourth term.  The point of this book is about collective denial. The fact that most of the country suffered from it, used it, and both benefitted from it in some ways, and paid for it in others.  Collective denial isn't much different from individual denial.  It is a powerful mechanism that existed not only in the relationship between FDR and the country, but between FDR and himself. It also is the mechanism that allowed the United States to fight WWII to &quot;make the world safe for democracy,&quot; while at the same time the country was somehow unaware of its own racist, anti-democratic values.  Ferrell's book should be read within the context of the times, so that it may shed light on ours.	2001-08-12
US	52852406	R1REGVMW7B2C37	0375405445	406271874	Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Informative &amp; Worthwhile....Despite Ellis	Having just finished &quot;John Adams,&quot; by David McCullough, I found Ellis' book the logical &quot;next read&quot; and I wasn't disappointed. Much of what McCullough had to say about Adams and Jefferson is reiterated here, lending credibility to both works...did I say &quot;credibility?&quot; Yes, yes, I know all about Ellis and how he has been making up fake war stories about himself. Too bad, because Ellis is a good writer, and I am afraid his writing career is probably over because of this incident. Too bad, because 1) This was a good book and I think the way Ellis presented his separate (but &quot;connected&quot;) essays effectively convey an overall feel of the era. 2) Ellis used the words &quot;salient&quot; and &quot;propitious&quot; so many times I thought the record was stuck. Writing another book would have given him a chance to use a Thesaurus! <br />Despite himself, Ellis has made a valuable contribution toward the understanding of the Revolutionary Era.	2001-07-28
US	52852406	R36YC4KIFOZA1H	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	5	0	1	N	N	McCullough Has Done It Again	David McCullough has done it again with his latest work, John Adams. Leave it to McCullough to find an 18th Century version of Harry Truman to tell us about. Like Truman, Adams' correspondence with his wife was both prolific and revealing. Like Truman, Adams was an &quot;everyman&quot; at heart, and was most comfortable on his farm with family and friends. Like Truman, Adams could be painfully honest, was driven more by his internal compass than external politics, and made some very unpopular decisions that, as events ultimately proved, turned out to be the right ones. <br />The History Channel recently aired a 4-part special called &quot;Founding Fathers,&quot; (Not to be confused with the Ellis book) and in it, some historian claimed that Adams, had he lived today, would have &quot;been on Prozac.&quot; Either that historian does not understand John Adams, or does not understand what Prozac is used for. The book &quot;John Adams&quot; reveals that Adams did indeed have a sour-streak of which he was well aware. But he was neither depressed or obessive-compulsive to the point of any disorder. He would not have needed &quot;Prozac&quot; any more than Harry Truman, who, by the way, also had a temper (he was famous for &quot;long hand spasms,&quot; written tirades that aides would dump into the trash before they could get Harry into trouble...) If anything, it might have been Jefferson, as McCullough reveals who might have benefitted from some help!<br />There are no national monuments to either Truman or Adams (that I know of). But McCullough's works stand as monuments to two very solid, very human Americans who had a tremendous effect on the course of history - more than we learn about in school or has been widely understood until McCullough's books came along. (Adams held out for peace with France against tremendous public and political pressure to declare war - a stand which (in time) allowed the Louisana purchase to come about.<br />&quot;John Adams&quot; is another masterpiece of story telling and scholarship by David McCullough.	2001-07-11
US	52852406	R1PJXFJO1EB0CK	0060105518	277137033	Bodyguard of Lies	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Comprehensive and Riveting	A relative &quot;turned me on&quot; to this book. Yes, it is out of print. But if you haven't read it - go find it. I found a copy through Amazon, and what a value ...!  Brown takes his readers into the bowels of espionage, counter-espionage, and a host of &quot;immaculate deceptions&quot; concocted by those who became responsible for the success of Allied efforts during WWII.  Beyond the riveting stories of mystery and mayhem created by MI-5, MI-6, the OSS, and even Churchill himself who loved this sort of thing, Brown explains WWII politics, including the cement-head of Charles DeGaulle, and the political implications of the post WWII era that were being considered in all quarters well before the end of the war. Not to mention an in-depth study of the &quot;Shawarz Kapelle,&quot; the conspiracy within Germany to do away with Hitler. <br />The success of D-Day, the effects of D-Day not only on the soldiers who fought but also and especially upon those who planned the operation, the successes and failures of many deceptions designed to keep the Axis guessing, are all described in detail. D-Day was the culmination of the games, ruses and set-ups that had been going on for almost four years.<br />If you haven't read this book, don't let the 1976 pub. date deter you. This is a must-read for anyone interested in WWII, WWII politics and post WWII politics, and anyone interested in learning about the lengths nations would go to in order to achieve deception.	2001-06-22
US	52852406	R227XCB999LPAJ	006095339X	497867283	Explaining Hitler	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Widens the Focus	&quot;Explaining Hitler&quot; by Ron Rosenbaum is a bit of a &quot;bait and switch.&quot;  Rosenbaum doesn't really attempt to &quot;explain&quot; Hitler himself. Instead, he attempts to &quot;explain the explainers,&quot; and the work does an admirable job of peeling each of those onions. This book gives the reader marvelous insight into Hitler's character, and reveals many mysterious sides of that character that I was not previously aware of.  However, if you are looking for a book to explain the Holocaust through an explanation of Hitler, you will be disappointed.  Rosenbaum, rightfully, does not attempt to do that.  If that's what you are looking for, pick up a book about the history of western civilization.  But if you want some fascinating insight into Hitler, his personal history and development, his relationships, and different theories about his make-up, this is an excellent resourse, well written and very readable.	2001-05-16
US	52852406	R3UUEOSWLDP9FA	0375502726	585847413	Eastward to Tartary: Travels in the Balkans, the Middle East, and the Caucasus	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Absolutely Elegant	The word that comes to mind in describing &quot;Eastward to Tartary&quot; by Robert Kaplan, is &quot;ELEGANT.&quot; The work is elegant in its design, presentation, and observation. You don't have to agree with Kaplan on everything that he postulates in order to appreciate his rationales which are always based on a combination of keen observation and undisputed history. I doubt if I will ever get to the Balkans, and certainly never to The Caucasus. I found Kaplan's prose to be is as crisp as Kodachrome as he descibes his descent from one poorly governed, poorly prepared for the 21st century society to another - with each one notably worse than the previous one, except for a few exceptions down the east coast of the Mediterranean.<BR>Kaplan takes the reader directly down the faultline where east has, and continues to meet west. The cultural equivalent of plate tectonics sitting on top of huge barely-tapped oil supplies will certainly have an affect the 21st century. This book gives the reader a clear sense of just how complex the region is, and will continue to be. To compare anything Kaplan oberves in these travels to anything in the United States is missing the point. From west to east, cultural/traditional ties to the west evaporate from miniscule to zero.	2001-04-27
US	52852406	RY152TB1LLX7V	0140296271	928300055	Hitler's Pope: The Secret History of Pius XII	Books	5	8	15	N	N	Pacelli is no saint	Hitler's Pope by John Cornwell is a tightly constructed work containing well thought out arguments. It is a very readable work of history. As with any work of this type, I try to keep in mind that the subject (in this case Pacelli) did not know what was going to happen next. With this in mind, I must conlude that Pacelli was certainly no worse than many other prominent and powerful religious and political leaders of the time who chose appeasement over confrontation, which, of course, makes him no better. Pacilli acted as most would have confronted with the complexities of the international situation. He did do some very worthwhile things. But he did not go above and beyond the norm, which, as Cornwell graphically demonstrates, means that he didn't really do anything that should qualify him for sainthood. From reading this account, one gets the impression that it would be much to Pacelli's chagrin to learn just how &quot;human&quot; history has revealed him to be. It should chagrin the Catholic hierarchy as well.	2001-04-18
US	52852406	R3TWW0FY9IW1XI	0395779278	962738707	Constantine's Sword: The Church and the Jews: A History	Books	5	54	62	N	N	A Modern Day Descartes?	In the early 17th Century, Rene Descartes was faced with a problem.  He knew that the &quot;New Science&quot; that was emerging at the time was correct. (Copernicus, Brahe, Kepler, Galileo, etc.)And he also knew that Galileo had to stand trial and ended up condemned to house arrest for his &quot;heretical&quot; views about the physical universe.  Descartes was no dummy, he knew Galileo to be correct, but he didn't wish to end up under house arrest himself...or worse, which is what the Church did to such &quot;heretics.&quot; So he concocted his &quot;Discourse on Method,&quot; which, for the first time, reconciled the &quot;New Science&quot; of the time, with the teachings of the old religion. He even used a rudimentary version of the &quot;Scientific Method&quot; to prove the existence of God, in a successful attempt to pacify the easily-offended Church and the faithful who followed what the Church had to say about such things.  <br />James Carroll just may be a 21st Century version of Descartes. For the subject that he tackles is certain to be met with defensiveness from the Church. Carroll will unquestionably be labeled a &quot;disgruntled Catholic,&quot; by many, a &quot;heretic&quot; by some, yet the fact is, he is anything but. If a Christian can somehow read this book, understand the points Carroll is making (it is neither anti-Catholic or anti-Christian) then that which has been painfully clear to Jews for centuries might finally become clear to Christains.  Carroll offers a way for Christians to understand that anti-semitism was the equivalent of a &quot;load-bearing wall&quot; in the foundation of the Church. His story is about mortals who fell into this trap...and his point is that mortals are capable of falling out of it as well.<br />Like Descartes, Carroll offers a way for the Catholic Church, and Christians in general, to come to terms with Christian history (which is man-made) without the process having to result in a denial of Christian faith. If anything, it should strengthen it.<br />Congratulation to James Carroll, who, by the way, tells us all clearly in the beginning of the book about the way he uses &quot;primary sources&quot; (heaven forbid anyone should upset the politics of the present-day historian-establishment) and that his story is as much a personal one as an historical one. Keep that in perspective and you can begin to understand why the Jews have been on the receiving end of the world's &quot;longest hatred.&quot;<br />Carroll does get very personal sometimes in this work, and I am not sure that the work couldn't have been even more effective without it. But then again, the revelations Carroll shares are not only historical, but deeply personal as well.  For a Christian to truly come to grips with the need of the Church to have its villains, and still remain faithful (as Carroll does), will require more than just reading this book. A deeply personal transformation and new level of understanding will be required as well.	2001-02-18
US	52852406	R22T0DT9FN8W4U	0684846098	975528807	Nothing Like It in the World: The Men Who Built the Transcontinental Railroad, 1863-1869	Books	2	0	2	N	N	Nothing Like It Before from Ambrose	I'll keep this short.  This is not the typical Stephen Ambrose work. I had trouble even finishing it.	2001-02-06
US	52852406	RN4BYC1OYFA62	0679772685	810809476	Hitler's Willing Executioners: Ordinary Germans and the Holocaust	Books	5	29	51	N	N	It COntinues to be Generally Inexplicable and Emotional	I found Goldhagen's book both informative and valuable. As disturbing as the book is, it is also disturbing to read many of the &quot;reviews&quot; posted here on AMAZON, many from people who obviously never read the  book.<br />Goldhagen goes out of his way, especially  in the preface written  to the German people before the book's release in Germany, to make it  unmistakably clear that he is not a proponent of &quot;collective  guilt.&quot;  (Those who read such into this work may very well be  suffering from it.)<br />What Goldhagen does do is to drive home the point  that most of us don't want to face. Namely, that the Holocaust could only  have taken place with the willing participation of an entire society (using  Goldhagen's definition of &quot;generalization.&quot;)  There were many and  varied &quot;ingredients&quot; that needed to come together in order for  the Holocaust to have happened. Goldhagen acknowledges this openly.  But  one of those ingredients, probably the bottom-line ingredient that allowed  it to become historical fact was the willing participation of the  perpetrators.  Goldhagen does not make a moral judgement of this, but  instead reveals the unmistakeable facts.  He does try and attribute this  phenomenon to a &quot;racial eliminationist anti-semitism&quot; that  existed in Germany (and elsewhere)before the nazi regime. Whether Jews  &quot;flourished&quot; in Germany prior to the Holocaust, or the fact that  they were not &quot;eliminated&quot; before the holocaust (which is twisted  logic in its most amazing form - The Holocaust would, of course, happened  earlier! ) is irrelevant to the fact that virulent anti-semitism existed  and was widespread and became manifest from time to time throughout  European history. It all came together under the nazi regime...in  Germany...and this included most Hans's, Fritz's, and Wilhelm's on every  German streetcorner, which is the point Goldhagen is trying to drive home  to us.<br />Racial anti-semitism is/was a form of racism.  Racism (as we know  it in the good old USA) included anti-semitism, and still does albeit to a  relatively small degree.  What the white (mainly of European descent)  majority in the U.S. perpetrated against blacks was also naked racism. It  is freightening to think that most of the &quot;ingredients&quot; required  for a recipe of genocide existed in this country at the same time in  history when the nazi's came to power in Germany. As David Brinkley put it,  &quot;In 1932 two influential leaders came to power, one in The United  States and one in Germany. We were luckier than the Germans.  We got  Roosevelt, they got Hitler.&quot;  <br />Understanding and recognizing ALL the  ingredients necessary to produce a genocide the likes of the Holocaust will  forever remain elusive and a mystery. But the fact is, it happened in  Germany. And the fact is, it took most Germans willing to act (in some way,  shape, or form either aggressively or passively) for this to happen. It  could have happened elsewhere, and could have happened in the US toward the  blacks.  It is good enough for me to agree with David Brinkley and, with a  sign of relief, realize that we were indeed &quot;luckier&quot; than the  Germans.  At the same time, let's not deny the facts. Let's become familiar  with them so we can spot the ingredients that we know existed in Germany,  ahead of time in other societies. Goldhagen drives home the fact that this  virulent form of racial anti-semitism didn't just pop out of the clear blue  sky in Germany in 1932.<br />Goldhagen has certainly raised eyebrows and  emotions.  Any discussion of the Holocaust always will.	2000-06-04
US	52852406	ROEFU5NODJU87	0684853396	977410269	Day of Deceit: The Truth About FDR and Pearl Harbor	Books	3	22	45	N	N	Not A Chance	I am editing this review in light of 9/11/01 - although what I have to say about this book basically does not change from my original review. Originally, I said &quot;not a chance,&quot; and I still believe that. There is nothing new in the way of hard evidence in this book that comes even close to some sort of &quot;smoking gun&quot; implicating anybody in such a rediculous scheme. Even the author says so in the book!!!!  It IS enjoyable reading about the times. And like our times, the separate components of Roosevelt's beaurocracy didn't talk to each other much - and their communication methods were quite primitive compared to those of today. Yet even today, the FBI, CIA, DoD, FAA, you name it - none of them were talking much to each other before 9/11/01. This indicates a lack of preparedness, and maybe some bone-headed stupidity. Nothing more. The problem is we have many people out there who refuse to believe that our government is capable of just doing something stupid or just blundering. And because they refuse to believe that simple fact, there must instead be some sort of conspiracy. Bunk.<br />First, the Roosevelt Administration 8 point plan to respond to Japan's incursion and rape of China has never been a secret. What were we supposed to do, condone it?  We have sanctions against Iraq.  Will it lead to war with Iraq? Who knows? But if it does, does this mean our sactions were a &quot;conspiracy&quot; to suck us into a war? Of course not.  The sanctions are a response to Iraqi policy that we find unacceptable. Everything Roosevelt did was similar. He knew Japan could have chosen war - he also knew they were capable of responding to US policy in a different manner. But they chose war.<br />The weakest part of the &quot;Conspiracy Theory&quot; is that it does not explain why Hitler declared war on the US two days later. The Tri-partite pact only bound Hitler to come to the aid of Japan if Japan were attacked ---- not the other way around. So Hitler had a perfect &quot;out&quot; if he had wanted to avoid war with the US. He did not want to avoid war with the US, and thus used Pearl Harbor to justify an &quot;attack&quot; by the US on Japan.<br />Moreover, Roosevelt was ex-Secretary of the Navy. He had a special fondness for the navy and all things navy. He also knew and stated much earlier than 12/7/41 that the &quot;real&quot; fight was going to be in Europe, not in the Pacific. If this were so, why in the name of creation would he want to put himself in the position of having to fight a defensive war in the Pacific instead of a &quot;holding action&quot; which was his original plan should Japan attack?  This makes absolutely no sense.<br />On Sept. 11, 2001 we were prepared for an attack by an army. We got attacked by terrorists. Before 12/7/41 Kimmel and Short prepared for an attack by terrorists. They got attacked by a navy. None of this means &quot;conspiracy.&quot; Nor does anything in this book.	2000-01-06
US	52852406	R6BXQWS99KNZ6	0671456547	680068737	Truman	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Outstanding In-depth information, and entertaining too.	Informative, stimulating, McCullough at his best, and with one of his best subjects.  Truman's exciting come-from-behind win in 1948 doesn't hurt the readability of this wonderful biography.  Brings to life some other very fascinating individuals who had a tremendous impact on the times (as McCullough always manages to do) such as Marshall, Eisenhower, Dean Acheson, and Robert A. Taft. McCullough gets you hooked, then you have to go and read up on these other characters to get the full effect of McCullough's design - a brilliant plan by a brilliant author to challenge us all to learn more.  <br />Whatever people thought of Truman at the time, posterity certainly has been kind to him and his presidency.  I highly recommend you read this book to find out why.	1998-05-18
