US	52850854	R1C1CJ0V9E1GA0	0060545607	485010020	With No One As Witness (Thomas Lynley and Barbara Havers Novels)	Books	5	106	133	N	N	HOLY CANNOLI!!!! What a shocker!	\\"With No One as Witness\\" just might be the very best book in the Lynley/Havers series. I have been an avid reader since \\"A Great Deliverance\\" and I can honestly say Ms. George got me on this one......I hate reviews that sums up the plot of the book, so I will skip that. What I will say is the plot twist in this book turns the entire series on its ear, and literally left me with my jaw open. <br /> <br />BRAVO Ms. George.....What you did was brave, and necessary to shift the series in a different direction. Lynley/Havers fans, trust me on this...You will not be disappointed!	2005-03-18
US	52850854	R1JKLP75I6ZAC4	0805069569	566397493	Warren G. Harding: The American Presidents Series: The 29th President, 1921-1923	Books	5	31	37	N	N	Warren is redeemed!	John Dean has done the impossible: he has made Harding not only sympathetic, but competent! Dean has done his homework and as such presents facts, not speculation and rumor. He correctly points out that no biography of Harding has taken his Presidential papers into account and have instead relied almost exclusively on gossip rags written when the scandals of the era were still fresh. Dean's writing is so fluid and effortless that outisde of the fresh perspective, the book is highly readable and engaging. I only wish that it could have been longer. Although I loved the entire book, it was worthwhile for two big reasons. One, the myth of the \\"smoke-filled room\\" has finally been put to rest. Harding was, in fact, actively seeking the nomination and played a key role in positioning himself at the convention. Second, Harding's administration had several key achievements, all of which have been ignored because of scandals that did not involve Harding personally. While the disarmament conference and establishment of a Bureau of the Budget were key, I have new affection for Harding because of two highly unpopular decisions that were, in retrospect, the right things to do. He vetoed the Veteran's Bonus Bill that would have broken the budget, and he pardoned Eugene V. Debs. Those two acts alone make him a \\"profile in courage.\\" And there's also the Birmingham speech on race that shocked whites throughout the South, and his hard-working nature that in all likelihood helped bring about his premature death. Harding is no Lincoln (of course), but he is a figure that deserves our respect and sympathy because he has been so horribly misjudged for so long. Thanks, Mr. Dean for one of the best books of the series. Keep writing!	2003-12-31
US	52850854	R1LMIP2Y2TILNO	1588341666	532479759	Senator Mansfield: The Extraordinary Life of a Great American Statesman and Diplomat	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Senate's Last True Gentleman.....	I had known of Senator Mansfield, but this biography was essentially my first real glimpse of the man. It was a genuine treat to come to know him, even in this limited way, and the author has given us one of the best biographies in many years. Yes, this is a tribute and it is clear that the author has great respect for his subject (as he should), but he does not ignore the complexities of Mansfield's career in the public arena. Admittedly there is little about Mansfield's private life (outside of the early, pre-government years), but I found that refreshing as what we need to know about Mansfield is what he contributed to the country and what we can learn from his long career. Nevertheless, we do get a sense of Mansfield's intellect, his charm, and his appeal across ideological divides. His greatness is never exaggerated and after finishing the book, one gets a sense of sadness as we consider what could have been if only he had been listened to regarding Vietnam.	2003-12-15
US	52850854	RUC41R1RDLQK2	1586480308	539913658	Governor Reagan: His Rise To Power	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Lou Cannon does it again......	First off, I am a liberal. This is important to know because despite my political leanings, I loved this book not because it bashes Reagan, but rather because it is fair and takes the good with the bad, of which there are plenty. After reading Cannon's \\"President Reagan,\\" I expected a well-researched, exhaustive account (relying heavily on cabinet minutes and interviews) with this volume, and I was not disappointed. Still, the title is a bit misleading as the book begins as a traditional biography (at least 150 pages of back story leading up to the 1966 run), and ends with Reagan's 1980 run for the White House.<br />As such, this is not a \\"liberal\\" book, nor is it a right-wing puff piece. The Reagan of Cannon's sketch is flawed to be sure, but also savvy, intelligent, and ambitious. And, to my surprise, Reagan was much more pragmatic and flexible as governor than people seem to remember. Many bills he signed (including the largest tax increase for any state in U.S. history, as well as a bill liberalizing abortion law) are contrary to his image and are even more left-wing than his predecessor Pat Brown.<br />Overall, an engaging read that never plays favorites and doesn't try to rewrite history to anyone's advantage. Reagan is far from the simplistic boob his critics portray, but he was not a saint either. Above all, Reagan was a political animal -- always striving for the next step, which makes his \\"outsider\\" status a bit silly. He was never completely \\"of Washington,\\" but he lived for politics and he never gave up in pursuit of his vision.	2003-11-17
US	52850854	R1CVKWJHNJUPCO	0767913795	695997885	Who's Looking Out for You?	Books	1	19	32	N	N	Al Franken, that's who.........	O'Reilly has all the answers, so why read anyone else? Typical &quot;No Spin&quot; fare: self-righteous drivel from the biggest ego on television. Fans will love it, but then again those people love everything that doesn't require deep thought.	2003-09-26
US	52850854	RIYZTT3TTD327	0609610368	72504593	Loser Goes First: My Thirty-Something Years of Dumb Luck and Minor Humiliation	Books	2	7	14	N	N	Really folks, not that funny........	I had high expectations for this book, something on the order of &quot;Selling Ben Cheever&quot; or &quot;A Working Stiff's Manifesto.&quot; Both of those books had a biting sense of humor, but they were also insightful about the world of work and the confusing sense of identity that comes from frequent job loss and career shifts. &quot;Loser Goes First,&quot; however, is heavy on smarm and self-satisfaction, and provides little to no insight either about the author or the uncertain workplace. I would categorize this book as yet another installment of the &quot;Slacker Chronicles,&quot; whereby writers with style to spare and not a lot of relevance or depth, tell about their lives as if we should automatically find them interesting. I'm not kidding when I say that I didn't so much as chuckle, and instead only finished the book because it was short enough not to be a burden. Given the press, I'd say this is a highly overrated piece of fluff.	2003-09-26
US	52850854	R1QGAUM6GB5KRR	0895261014	74442182	Shut Up and Sing: How Elites from Hollywood, Politics, and the UN Are Subverting America	Books	1	24	71	N	N	Elites?	I love the way these conservatives throw around the word &quot;elite,&quot; all the while ignoring corporate America and the true rulers of us all. They focus on harmless Hollywood folks and academics who are largely ignored and have us believe that they have more power than the Pentagon, CEOs, and those who fund campaigns. Red herrings and distractions while the true elite run this country into the ground.	2003-09-17
US	52850854	RLO78VGLE78A7	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Hilarious and dead-on.....	I now know why Bill O'Reilly et al hate Franken so much; the stinging truth of his commentary cannot be denied. I was glad to see the release date pushed up so that I could end my summer with an entertaining and insightful read that never loses sight of the fact that at bottom, we need to retain our sense of humor even in the face of madness. Franken uses the words of Coulter, O'Reilly, Goldberg, and Hannity to indict them, pointing out shoddy research and deliberate dishonestly. The notion, for example, that Coulter's books are \\"serious\\" because they contain footnotes is nothing but a fraud; Franken breaks it all down and shows how she uses such footnotes to fool the reader. He recounts his devastating attack on liar Goldberg while on the Donahue show, and shows how time and time again, the Fox News talking heads take quotes out of context and use false statistics to \\"prove\\" their points. Franken also has a few illustrated sections, including a charming little comic strip \\"Supply Side Jesus.\\" Franken is the real deal -- an educated, self-deprecating, wise commentator who understands better than most the Right's lies and liars. Thanks, AL!	2003-08-27
US	52850854	R3329QUJ3437ON	0895260735	635145623	Ain't No Rag: Freedom, Family, and the Flag	Books	5	21	46	N	N	Guldernit, I loves me some Charlie Daniels!	Considerin' that I hates me some liberals, an' strong women, and all that high-falutin' book learnin', this is is jus' what I need. I see now that lovin' America is all about wavin' flags, talkin' tough, and sittin' round not actually doin' nuthin. Simple? Hell, so what? You need fancy words to tell ya your a good American? Vote Bush and all is well. Or is you a pinko red?	2003-08-11
US	52850854	R3GCGGTUAS526S	0745320104	715848169	The Greatest Sedition is Silence: Four Years in America	Books	2	37	65	N	N	I am a flaming liberal, yet I didn't like this book......	I am as left-wing as they come and loathe Bush with every fiber of my being, yet I could not get into this book. I admit it: I stopped after 60 pages. The tone, I'm afraid, is quite naive and it sounds like the prose of an earnest 17 year old hoping to, like, change the world, man. I have heard these things hundreds of times before, yet the author would have us think that this is groundbreaking. But I also rolled my eyes when he started talking about spirituality and being a &quot;true&quot; Christian. The only hope the left has is to throw out religion, not embrace it. I don't need Lieberman-like candidates when there is already the GOP. In all, I was bored with this book. It lacks the crucial element of a sense of humor, which makes it a bit embarrassing at times. There are better books out there for liberals; seek them out.	2003-07-02
US	52850854	R1XHQPT2Q4LOXO	0060505370	970110651	The Rant Zone: An All-Out Blitz Against Soul-Sucking Jobs, Twisted Child Stars, Holistic Loons, and People Who Eat Their Dogs!	Books	1	11	36	N	N	Dennis Miller, Comedian.....R.I.P.	Dennis Miller used to have an edge to his work; he was always attacking those in power and made no apology for it. Now, with his recent and self-serving conversion to Bush and his brand of conservatism, he has become a voice for the elite. A comedian can be right-wing (he just might not be as funny), but recent appearances have demonstrated that as he has moved to the right, his comedy has dropped off and his political rhetoric (sans wit) has increased. I am sure his switch was motivated most of all by a resentment of paying taxes (a common thing for former liberals), but at this time, more than ever, we need dissent -- preferably angry dissent -- not fawning defense of the powers that be.	2003-04-21
US	52850854	R1MPVVULPQGJMX	0060195495	742046188	Alexander Hamilton: A Life	Books	4	9	11	N	N	A good book about a great man.....	After years without a one-volume biography on Hamilton, it was quite exciting to learn that Randall had written this book. Randall is an accessible and supremely entertaining author, and he does right by his subject. He never blows him out of proportion or resorts to distortions; he presents the subject in a fair and balanced way, while understanding his central importance in our nation's history. I learned quite a bit from the book, even though I have read several other less comprehensive works. As far as detail regarding Hamilton's early life and critical years as aide-de-camp to George Washington, few books measure up to Randall's volume. Still, I was left wanting more in terms of Hamilton's later years (primarily 1794-1804). There is little on the Hamilton/Jefferson rivalry, nor is there much of substance regarding the Burr relationship. True, other books have covered these matters in greater depth (and the &quot;duel&quot; is a vast subject on its own), but it seemed a bit irresponsible to devote so much to Hamilton's early years yet resolve the last ten years of his life in less than 100 pages. Because of this, I felt the book was &quot;rushed&quot; near the end, almost as if the author felt compelled to finish while maintaining a marketable length. The books could have easily been 150-200 more pages, I believe.<br />Still, the book is a fine read and even the economic discussions are treated with care, never becoming too difficult or out of reach for the layman. Still, all lovers of American history should combine readings of McCullough's &quot;John Adams&quot; and Ellis' &quot;Founding Brothers&quot; to get a more complete picture of the times.	2003-02-11
US	52850854	R1B1OH39FUK11C	0805069070	100459469	Dwight D. Eisenhower	Books	4	5	11	N	N	Another take.....	I thought I'd present an alternative viewpoint to the obviously irate folks who have written so far. While Wicker's book is far from a complete biography (this series -- and I have read all but the TR volume -- was never intended to be THE definitive account, only an introduction of sorts), it does present Eisenhower's presidency in relatively comprehensive terms. I was left wanting more, but one can take this book, armed with a general outline, and pursue the subject further.<br />As for the negative tone, I am not offended, nor am I disappointed. There have been plenty of fawning biographies written about Ike (check out any Ambrose volume), so it is only fair that we get a different take. Ike's presidency, like so many, had its shining moments, but also its shame. Wicker correctly identifies Ike's weaknesses, including a tendency to overdelegate and of course, a reluctant, weak-willed enforcement of civil rights laws. It is also important to note that Ike failed to take on that era's most poisonous demagogue, Joseph McCarthy.<br />Writing a hagiography would be easy given our country's worship of military figures, but this is a political biography. The years from 1953 to 1961 were not perfect, and Wicker understands that the leadership must be held accountable for some of that decade's less admirable turns.	2002-12-11
US	52850854	RX4LJ05Z5OL7E	0060505281	565936517	The Skeptic: A Life of H. L. Mencken	Books	5	19	25	N	N	Frank assessment of a brilliant, yet flawed man.....	Terry Teachout's new book about H.L. Mencken is a revelation, largely because it is no mere hagiography; nor does it attempt to smear Mencken as a one-dimensional bigot. Instead, Teachout admits that while yes, Mencken was anti-Semetic, often petty, and sometimes out of touch (especially from about 1935 on), he was also a brilliant writer, master critic, and unparalleled wit in the Mark Twain tradition. Teachout provides a nice balance of the personal and the public man (using previously unpublished letters and journal entries) so that it is often the case that Mencken's own words indict him (rather than the P.C. crowd taking things out of context). What we are left with is a man still worthy of admiration (at the very least, for a journalistic style that is unrivaled), but one who deserves to be further scrutinized for his contradictions. Bravo, Teachout, for giving us a living, breathing Mencken rather than a caricature.	2002-11-11
US	52850854	RQJ6C3UEPAOAK	1400046610	957571830	Slander: Liberal Lies About the American Right	Books	2	23	37	N	N	The predictable rants of a passionate conservative...	First, I am a liberal. I agree with little, if anything, Coulter believes or writes in this book. That said, I did read this book (I had to know what the big deal was, after all) and can say that while it will rile the ideological opposites of Coulter, it will no doubt please all who inhabit the right side of the aisle.<br />The most noticeable trait of Coulter's writings is that while well-reasoned in their own way, they can only make sense if one forgets that there is another side to each and every issue she discusses. If one were to ignore all of the details from other sources, her ideas might make sense. She is the master of \\"selective evidence,\\" and does not even attempt to provide that which might contradict her beliefs.<br />Still, as a pundit and/or social critic, she is not obligated to do so. She is not a journalist feigning objectivity; she is a self-described conservative cheerleader and would not pretend that she is arguing social science here. She has a worldview, nothing can shake her from it, and this is her 200 page testimonial to her conservative philosophy<br />As a result, in her world all conservatives are perfect, well-intentioned, patriotic, moral, and just. All liberals are immoral, liars, traitors, and opportunistic. Again, she does not ask that her book be analyzed for its journalistic integrity; this is propaganda -- biased, one-sided, and intended to provoke.<br />Coulter is not subtle throughout, and any non-conservative will be uttering \\"but what about...\\" or \\"Yes, but you forgot...\\" with every page that is turned. She seems to disregard the idea that while certain liberals she mentions are cads and/or dangerous to our moral fabric, conservatives in the political arena are just as guilty, if not more so. She does not hold her idols to the same standards as liberals, and as a result her arguments, while persuasive if read in isolation, simply do not hold up to scrutiny.<br />Coulter also has a \\"gift\\" for hyperbole, which is part of her goal -- to rile up the public so that liberals are even further demonized and isolated. She has no sense of perspective, no vision of accuracy, and practices the same tactics (ad hominem attacks and bitter denunciations substituting for debate) she decries in others.<br />As a final thought on this book, it is quite sloppy and could have used some organization and editing. She rambles from one attack to the next, concerned only with \\"proof\\" that liberals have destroyed all that is right and good in America. Still, she says what she believes, does not couch anything in polite P.C. discourse, and is unafraid of sacred cows (although her targets are often obvious and too easy), but she is not adding to the political sanity of our culture. Her book has the flavor of old fashioned \\"criticism\\" (angry, holier-than-thou, unfair, yet often biting and witty), yet none of the broadmindedness that defined so many of the past. For example, H.L. Mencken was an angry, vicious character, but he attacked the culture as a whole rather than following predictable party lines. She believes there are saints among us; Mencken thought the whole deal was rotten. There is a difference.	2002-07-03
US	52850854	R5TF23G25XXX9	0895261537	698227269	What's So Great About America	Books	1	18	64	N	N	What's so great about America (Conservative Edition):	It can be summed up in one tidy little phrase: the unfettered and god-given right to earn, save, and invest money. You will never hear a conservative praise the artistic freedom of the United States, its respect for diversity, its secular government, nor the Constitution itself (with the exception of the Second Amendment, of course). Money and money alone gives them pause -- they proudly salute the golden calf.	2002-06-06
US	52850854	R3GVO2H78FDDPC	076791032X	141760283	The Great Movies	Books	4	29	33	N	N	An American legend and his best essays to date.....	For once -- a collection of true film essays rather than &quot;star reviews&quot; or valueless blurbs. Ebert is, for my money, the best essayist inthe country, largely because he combines wit, intellect, and a clear understanding of film history. His imagination, especially in these essays, goes back into the past to discover, or rather, re-discover, the films that influenced our culture, current cinema, or even just Roger himself. These are great films -- musts for all buffs -- and they provide a starting point for debates about the greatest of all-time. As he no doubt intends, these films are not THE best, but rather a source of stimulation; a beginning of debate, which is all lists should do anyway.<br />My only complaint, however, has nothing to do with the writing or selection of films, but rather has everything to do with the necessity of buying this book. After all, all of these essays are available on his website, free of charge. While I would love to keep Mr. Ebert in comfort buy purchasing this manual, it simply doesn't make sense. I would have preferred that he write at least several (a dozen, perhaps?) new essays that are exclusive to this book.	2002-03-09
US	52850854	R2X6HX74I66HE2	0446525979	921726398	Ain't It Cool?: Hollywood's Redheaded Stepchild Speaks Out	Books	5	3	11	N	N	A wonderful ode to the movies.....	At bottom, this is one of the most passionate defenses of movies I have ever read. In an infectious, always accessible style, Knowles has, as his first if not only mission, the elevation of movies to the highest pinnacle. He is no mere watcher, nor is he a starry-eyed fool more distracted by star power than the movies themselves; this is a joyful, endlessly giddy man who grew up with the movies and found that they alone had the power to challenge his imagination. Still, he does not write breathlessly or in a sentimental fashion; this is, yes, a \\"conversational\\" book, but it is always witty and fun-loving.<br />There is a brief biographical sketch given here, and for once, not a trace of self-pity or cheap sentiment comes through. There is tragedy and sadness to be sure, but Knowles takes it all in stride and maintains a biting, hilarious tone. I knew that if Knowles could portray his life in this way, I could connect with him far better than if he asked me to feel sorry for him. He has a wonderful attitude about his upbringing and that makes all the difference.<br />Still, it is is web site and love of movies that will interest readers the most. His story -- from bedroom isolation to influential critic -- is quite amazingm especially given that it was all achieved with a keyboard and modem. If anything, Knowles demonstrates that a little luck, good timing, and masterful typing skills are enough to achieve one's dreams.<br />Knowles certainly wants to give us an insight into the films that make him happy, but he also includes several chapters taking the industry to task for its mediocrity, test-marketing, and clueless suits. His criticism is pointed, accurate, and always done with an eye for improvement. Rather than being content to attack obvious targets, Knowles genuinely desires a better class of film; the sorts of movies that kept him in the dark hour after hour as a child.<br />Many have accused Knowles of being a \\"mindless cheerleader\\" who, under the influenceof studio perks and gifts, would much rather praise junk than rip it to shreds. This is highly inaccurate. While he, by his own admission, would much rather tell you why he loved a film rather than why he hated it, he is not a flunky for the studios. Any reader of this book will realize that he is his own man and is quite capable of providing a tongue-lashing when he wants to.<br />If you love movies, old-fashioned success stories, and humorous anecdotes, this book will appeal to you. It is a brisk read, always engaging, and contains lists of his all-time favorites and \\"most hated\\" films. Of course many will find fault with his choices, but that is the point. Lists are nothing more than invitations to discuss the finer points of the movies -- how they stimulate us, enrage us, and push us to seek more out of life. Knowles would be happy with nothing less.	2002-03-08
US	52850854	R2OGXU7TGQW0Q0	0743524691	88544726	The Lessons of  Terror: A History of Warfare Against Civilians: Why It has Always Failed and Why It Will Fail Again	Books	5	8	15	N	N	Ignore the criticism!	Despite some unfair negative press, this book is yet another example of Carr's masterful writing style and unparalleled ability to create strong, lasting images. Some readers expecting historical fiction might not appreciate Carr's subject matter, but it is important to remember that military history is Carr's field of expertise. Knowing this going in, I was able to immerse myself and enjoy from beginning to end.<br />After September 11, it is important to have a reasonable, intelligent response that avoids sensationalism and fear-mongering. Carr's approach (and use of history) not only describes the ultimate futility of terrorist actions, but attempts something few people in the media dare to do -- provide context and comparative understanding. Our plight might seem unique and unprecedented to those in the full arrogance of their Americanism, but Carr rightfully dashes such nonsense, demonstrating that terror, far from a \\"Middle East problem,\\" is (and has been) world-wide in scope, taking various shapes and employing wide-ranging tactics.<br />Above all, however, Carr is simply a wonderful writer. His prose is clear and direct, yet always intellectually sound. This is far from the simplistic rants one comes to expect in this area; Carr always takes his book in the right direction and (thankfully!) expects his audience to bring more than a working knowledge of the subjects at hand. He is a challenging, provocative author, always avoiding self-righteousness and easy targets.<br />Buy -- and read -- with confidence. Carr is, as always, the man to seek in such matters. I only wish he gave us more non-fiction for his love (and knowledge) of the subjet is quite apparent.	2002-02-28
US	52850854	R88Q2QBUQF53J	0066211484	406719494	Another Planet: A Year in the Life of a Suburban High School	Books	5	4	7	N	N	The Kids Are Not Alright....	Ignore those who &quot;protest too much,&quot; this book is an eye-opening and all-too-accurate indictment of American education and most depressingly, American youth. Those who find fault with the details of Burkett's book are, predictably, missing the big picture: American schools are not suffering from a financial crisis, but rather ache under the weight of apathy, grade inflation, celebrated conformity, and the commodification of knowledge. Burkett's book is sobering and depressing, yes, but she illuminates a crisis that goes beyond dollars and class size. The kids, representative as they indeed are, would fail to embrace learning for its own sake even if schools were golden palaces and teacher-student ratios were 1:1.<br />There are voices of reason in Burkett's book (a few &quot;old school&quot; teachers who believe in failing those who underperform, as well as students like Reilly, who is a constant breath of fresh air and on-target cynicism), but too often New Age &quot;feel-goodism&quot; wins out over truth and logic. As the author points out, many (if not all) of the problems in our schools (especially violence) are the result of inflated egos, not &quot;wounded wallflowers.&quot; Those who approach education as a commercial endeavor (with smug entitlement guiding their actions) will inevitably see low grades and poor test scores not as indications of ignorance or sloth, but rather as &quot;plots&quot; by &quot;unfair&quot; teachers and &quot;hostile&quot; school environments.<br />Burkett, in bringing us this story of a Minnesota high school, also presents an entire culture limping into the madness of mediocrity. It's all here: the medicalization of failure (ADD, ADHD, ODD, and other illegitimate excuses to avoid personal responsibility), uncooperative and irate parents (proving that the rotten apple truly does not fall too far from the tree), degraded and abused faculty (who often give in rather than fight), and the neverending debate over how best to educate our demon spawn. Higher standards? More tests? Stronger teacher accountability? Burkett, unlike many sanctimonious politicians, does not offer a single solution. Instead, she demonstrates that the destruction of learning -- the very idea that knowledge can be valued for more than what it does for us materially -- is a culture-wide phenomenon; that before we crucify the educators, we need to examine the culture that these kids internalize and learn to value BEFORE they enter the halls of learning. Perhaps our collective anti-intellectualism and sanctioning of ignorance (via a crass consumer culture that refuses to endorse learning that is not immediately transferred into profit and productivity) are culprits.<br />Still, I thank Ms. Burkett for her wit, her perspective, and her understanding that the kids, far from being overachieving wonders of the world, may in fact be the manipulative monsters they are often &quot;unfairly&quot; stereotyped as being. High GPAs and sparkling transcripts, after all, do not indicate learning, only an understanding of and willingness to play the game -- rigged as it certainly is.	2001-12-28
US	52850854	R2AI0FIT3G8YWO	0684868148	277349860	The Virtue of Prosperity : Finding Values In An Age Of Techno-Affluence	Books	1	5	29	N	N	How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love Money	Finding it difficult to reconcile your Christian charity with monstrous selfishness and crass materialism? Here is your book: the all-purpose bible that allows you to wallow in greed and feel no need to apologize for it! D'Souza has finally allowed us to believe we are good, moral people while we celebrate layoffs, the replacement of good jobs with no-benefit service sector drudgery, concentrated wealth, corporate hegemony, and the commodification of every waking second of our lives. It is a new world and you are welcome to it!<br />D'Souza is, as expected, a free-market fanatic who would rather pontificate about laissez-faire, market shares, and the glory of CEOs than do just about anything else. His religion is cash money -- and yet he believes (I sense rationalization here) that one can worship at the alter of profit while still remaining decent and wholesome and pure. What a concept!<br />What an utterly depressing and dark world D'Souza inhabits. He has taken Ned Beatty's warning in the film &quot;Network&quot; (&quot;The world is a business...&quot;) and has turned it into a rallying cry for the further entrenchment of man as a dehumanized creature of transactions, meetings, conference calls, and of course, bottom lines. There is no room for imagination, art, beauty, conversation, or passion -- only the single-minded pursuit of the business ethic. As such, this tome is nothing more than a desperate, pathetic attempt to demonstrate that right-wing, money-obsessed zealots can have &quot;values,&quot; whatever they might be. He is lying through his teeth, of course, but he must salvage the reputation of his kind so that we all don't storm the gates.	2001-11-21
US	52850854	R12XF7MGINH26P	0684848236	357972578	Ronald Reagan: How an Ordinary Man Became an Extraordinary Leader	Books	1	18	82	N	N	Hero Worship	For all of you who believe that the invasion of Grenada was an upstanding and fine use of our fighting men, check out this horribly biased (and deluded) account of the man who made the election of George W. Bush possible. By setting the tone for intellectual mediocrity in the White House, Reagan inspired future dullards and the easily distracted to achieve the nation's highest office.<br />But what of the book itself? To be fair, D'Souza does not pretend that his is an objective historical review or biography. D'Souza genuinely believes that Reagan was the greatest man since Jesus and such worship oozes from every page. Literally everything that Reagan does (right, wrong, misguided, or silly) is twisted and reshaped as pure, unadulterated genius. Lacking brainpower? Simply a deliberate and calculated game, says Dinesh. Unable to distinguish between reality and fantasy? Part of a winning charm that expressed a deep sense of right and wrong, says Dinesh. Dogmatic, inflexible, and perilously rigid? Of course, says Dinesh, but that is why he is so loved in right-wing circles.<br />Of course, one's opinion of Reagan will determine one's enjoyment of this book. No one's mind will be changed and no one will find a cause for re-evaluation. If you believe that his tendency to fall asleep in cabinet meetings reflected a brilliant (and wicked) opposition to bureaucracy rather than the laziness of a tired old man, dig right in. D'Souza will comfort all your fears, reassure you at every turn, and have you nodding your head in agreement: &quot;Yes, Reagan was our greatest man. Period.&quot;	2001-11-17
US	52850854	R1OJ79XXFBPVGI	0375400869	203371491	The Last Campaign: How Harry Truman Won the 1948 Election	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Wonderfully written history, full of charm and insight......	More than a mere summary of Truman's upset victory, this book wisely includes detailed accounts of all the presidential campaigns; Republican Thomas Dewey, Progressive Henry Wallace, and Dixiecrat Strom Thurmond.  Consequently, we are given new insight as to how Truman pulled off his  magnificent victory. Still, the main thrust of the book (how 1948 was the  last year for so many things political), is infinitely fascinating and  makes this a book impossible to put down. Truman's style of tough talk and  fierce rhetoric (which the author believes opened the door for  Republican-led attacks in Truman's second term) captured the nation that  year, but would soon give way to the bland and inoffensive platitudes of  Dewey. Because 1948 was the last presidential election not to have  significant television coverage, candidates could focus more on the issues  at hand without be as concerned with image and polite pronouncements. The  year 1948 also witnessed the last relevant convention, when the candidate  was decided after more than one ballot. As the author states, conventions  are now &quot;public spectacles for mass consumption&quot; rather than  smoke-filled halls of debate, negotiation, and last-minute surprises (could  we even imagine a dark horse candidate today?) Finally, 1948 gave voters  the last real choice from the ideological spectrum. While Truman and Dewey  were similar in their centrist views, Wallace and Thurmond added  much-desired views at the extremes. While the two fringe candidates never  seriously challenged for the White House, they did receive substantial  coverage and for a time, many thought Thurmond might force the election  into the House. And, in something unimaginable in today's reactionary  landscape, Truman actually veered Left in order to win! Author Zachary  Karabell writes with a lively pen and even though this is a serious  historical study, he never fails to add a dash of humor or even a pointed  remark. From the campaign trains to the deluded pollsters; from Dewey's  &quot;relaxed&quot; evenings at home (in a stiff suit and tie, no less) to  Thurmond's shameless flirting at various beauty contests, this book is  revealing, intelligent, and always a great read.	2000-06-19
US	52850854	R32KZ2OAO8SOIB	038097746X	450837062	An Honest President: The Life And Presidencies Of Grover Cleveland	Books	5	55	56	N	N	At last, a book about an obscure American President.....	Imagine my surprise when I discovered this long-awaited biography of our 22nd and 24th president! As a release from the hundreds of redundant titles about Lincoln or Washington that are produced each year, this book provided  me an opportunity to visit with a man too many ignore or misunderstand. The  author provides a clean, concise account of his life (usually hitting only  the high points rather than indulging in endless detail), and provides a  fair, balanced description of his presidency. Still, it was most  fascinating to read about Cleveland's rapid ascent from obscurity to the  White House. Here was a man, who within three years (1881-1884), went from  mayor of Buffalo to become a successful presidential candidate against  powerful Republican James G. Blaine. As a politician, whether on the local  or national level, Cleveland took controversial stands, challenged  established members of his party, vetoed popular bills (risking always an  override), and revealed private, potentially harmful information in the  name of truth an openness. The author by no means paints a picture of  perfection (his decisions as president are up for historical debate), but  whatever position he took, Cleveland never betrayed his sense of duty and  loyalty to the social good. That sense might have been wrong on several  occasions (his handling of the 1894 Pullman strike, for example, which  pushed the envelope of federal intervention in state matters), but he never  compromised out of fear or a desire to cater to party officials. While  there are many accounts of Cleveland's happy marriage to Frances (almost  thirty years his junior) and their children (one of whom was, in a first,  born in the White House), the book is an important contribution primarily  because of its reassessment of his political life. Additionally, the author  gives us a vivid representation of the late 19th century itself (as all  presidential biographies must); a time rife with labor wars, economic  crises(the Panic of 1893 was one of the nation's worst depressions),  racial conflict, immigration debates (Cleveland signed the Chinese  Exclusion Act yet vetoed a bill forbidding illiterate immigrants),  imperialism abroad, and impending war with Spain. While the author resorts  to a few cheap shots against President Clinton in the end (I suppose no  contemporary book about politics would be complete without it), the book  maintains a satisfactory level of detachment throughout. While books such  as these will never light up the bestseller lists, I am thankful that they  are written. Mr. Jeffers should be applauded for tackling a forgotten man  while always keeping it accessible, appealing, and worthy of the subject.	2000-06-15
US	52850854	R1HAYHN7PZDQ2Q	0786884088	7901323	Red Lobster, White Trash, & the Blue Lagoon: Joe Queenan's America	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Hilarious attack on the drivel that passes for &quot;culture&quot;....	While there is much to recommend in this biting book, it is worth the price alone for the full-frontal assault on that sacred institution of kitsch, the musical &quot;Cats.&quot; To quote Queenan: &quot;This was pure  pain. This was sheer torture. 'Cats' really was the worst thing on the  entire planet.&quot; Considering the garbage Queenan encountered on his  journey (from the mind-numbing music of Michael Bolton to the shallow  spirituality of Deepak Chopra), it is worth noting that everything comes  back to this painfully banal musical wasteland. Queenan, more than anyone,  appreciates guilty pleasures and the allure of bad taste, but his mission,  to discover why it is that Americans abhor the noble and the grand in their  artistic indulgences, is certainly no pleasure cruise. We are a nation that  embraces trash and most frightening of all, we find no need to apologize  for it.	2000-06-10
US	52850854	R1TWCC029PWJAL	0486275426	262777759	The Devil's Dictionary (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Savage sarcasm from the mind of a brilliant madman......	Disregarding all euphemism and sense of decency, Ambrose Bierce manages to achieve in this thin volume a complete overhaul of the English language. While a few definitions miss the mark here and there, this collection is,  on the whole, full of wit, insight, and vintage macabre humor. Some of the  best -- &quot;FRIENDLESS: having no favors to bestow, destitute of fortune,  addicted to utterance of truth and common sense&quot;; &quot;BIRTH: the  first and direst of all disasters&quot;; &quot;FAITH: belief without  evidence in what is told by one who speaks without knowledge, of things  without parallel.&quot; Unlike other authors more concerned with propriety  and cultivating good taste, Bierce understands the corrupt comedy of human  existence and would prefer to laugh as the world burns. It is easy to see  why H.L. Mencken loved him so.	2000-06-10
US	52850854	R2DZ48D9GSWB3H	0140277447	803730078	The Rape of Nanking: The Forgotten Holocaust of World War II	Books	5	14	19	N	N	Finally, a long-awaited account of Japanese brutality.......	For too long, American historians have focused on the &quot;victimization&quot; of Japan during WWII as a result of the atomic bombs dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. From debates over museum exhibits  to academic hand-wringing over the proper historical emphasis, discussions  of the most impactful event on the 20th century have been twisted to ignore  realities on ALL sides of the equation. With this book, an uncompromising,  unflinching (and remarkably vivid) account of Japan's barabarism in China  during the 1930s, we finally understand what it was that the United States  was fighting against: inhuman militiarism by Japan in Asia and the Pacific.  Every detail is explored, giving the reader a powerful journey to be sure  (some passages are extremely difficult to endure, but endure we must), but  in the end, we are rewarded by having the lost voices of Chinese victims  have their rightful place at the historical table. Some of the tortures  inflicted on the Chinese were so savage, so utterly devoid of even a shred  of humanity, that it is sometimes hard to believe that anyone could descend  to that level of beastliness. However, this is not an anti-Japanese  polemic, attempting to bring the current Japanese government to its knees  in a flood of tears and cries for forgiveness. Instead, this is an account  of what many (especially in the United States) have long forgotten, if they  ever remembered in the first place. At the very least, the book can stand  as a reminder of the dangers of unchecked militarism.	2000-06-10
US	52850854	R14B26YTI0D6SH	067084134X	855770597	Ravelstein	Books	4	20	23	N	N	Fascinating, unconventional novel........	While there is no doubt that the &quot;novel&quot; is a thinly disguised biography of Allan Bloom, there is much more to recommend than mere insight into the inner life of that bestselling author. Rather than approach Abe  Ravelstein's (and Bloom's) life from the standpoint of cheap gossip and  innuendo, Bellow presents it as a microcosm of our human struggle against  the inevitability and frustration of non-existence. In this way, the book  is an affectionate and touching memoir; a presentation of a gifted,  passionate man whose ideas changed a culture (for but a brief time,  unfortunately) and inspired young people to transcend the limitations  placed on them by an anti-intellectual, hostile culture. Despite the trials  of death and disease that permeate the novel, this is not a depressing  journey. Instead, Bellow is expressing his rage at the unavoidable  unfairness of existence itself; that great minds, minds that embrace all of  life, never giving in to mediocrity or compromise, should one day cease to  be. Bellow wraps up the book with a fitting and powerful display of  friendship and the sorrow of loss: &quot;You don't easily give up a  creature like Ravelstein to death.&quot; Philosophical, thought-provoking,  and strong in its character development, &quot;Ravelstein&quot; was a fine  introduction for me to Bellow's prose and I hope to revisit him very soon.	2000-06-09
US	52850854	R2YGJFVG9TX00J	0452280621	675572194	Beloved	Books	1	37	55	N	N	Shall I quote Ambrose Bierce?	&quot;The covers of this book are too far apart.&quot;	2000-05-31
US	52850854	RZPHP2WBJH790	0684835339	160386834	GREAT BOOKS	Books	5	13	18	N	N	Denby writes what too many of us feel........	Would that we all could embark on such a journey; to revisit our college days and relive the lively discussions, the passionate arguments, and the idealistic strivings toward objective, unencumbered learning. However,  while the journey was undertaken with only the purest of motives, the  discovery itself will leave anyone determined to live a life of the mind  not only cold, but full of sorrow and disgust. Instead of discovering the  best that humans have to offer, he stumbled upon a virtual breeding ground  of hostility. The students of today, rather than embracing the great books  of the past, have been instilled with the unfortunate idea that all works  of long ago are to be held in contempt; under suspicion and accused of  racism, sexism, exclusion, and deliberate oppression. The philosophers,  novelists, and social theorists have become tools of what appears to be (if  one believes the P.C. crowd) a patriarchal, Eurocentric, slave-holding,  jingoistic elite bent on crushing all minority opinion. Denby's book, which  should be read side by side with Harold Bloom, presents the college  students of the world for what they are: whining, self-righteous brats with  little in mind but an egalitarian revolution where all literature,  regardless of merit or talent, is equal; all thoughts, even the most  lamebrained and esoteric, are valid and above challenge; and the free  exchange of ideas, vital on a college campus, is discarded in favor of a  guiding ideology of &quot;bottom-up&quot; virtue. We may have rejected the  great books of our Western heritage, but we need them more than ever.  Reason, not political grandstanding, must make a comeback.	2000-05-31
US	52850854	R1S78KWRZA6FAF	0679728759	53277980	Blood Meridian: Or the Evening Redness in the West	Books	2	24	39	N	N	Dull, overrated work.......	Perhaps the intent of the author is to avoid preachiness, but the level of objectivity reached in this novel strips the prose of any passion or life.  Throughout, I failed to connect to any of the characters or situations and  felt that, despite the graphic nature of the events described, I was being  fed a cold, bureaucratic account rather than an emotional, heartfelt  journey. It is important to have literary demystifications of the West, but  in the attempt to strip that era of romance, I wonder: is it necessary to  give us nothing of interest? Must all the characters be aloof and  untouchable? Moreover, I found the writing to be blunt and uninspired, more  like a bad imitation of Hemingway than a vibrant new writer on the scene. I  purchased this book solely because it came with a high recommendation from  Harold Bloom and quite frankly, I cannot understand what the excitement is  all about. Again, the non-judgmental tone is refreshing (it could have  easily been yet another anti-American novel from the School of Resentment),  but novels must first and foremost be (and Bloom would agree with this)  full of joy and life; not &quot;positive&quot; or &quot;uplifting&quot;  necessarily, but a joy to read. Instead, I was left with no feeling at all;  alienated by the author's inability to make me care.	2000-05-29
US	52850854	R2O1UXA1AAH84W	0740706721	470651737	I Hated, Hated, Hated This Movie	Books	5	39	41	N	N	Fantastic collection of Ebert's harshest reviews.....	It could be argued that Ebert is truly at his best when he is savagely attacking the worst films ever made. While his criticism is always sharp and insightful, his negative reviews are much more entertaining, employing  sarcasm, bitterness, and outright hatred for the drivel he must endure. The  book provides a diverse selection, ranging from the early 1970s to more  recent disasters. Although he attacks small, obscure works, he is much more  satisfied attacking the giants; the &quot;sacred cows&quot; of cinema that,  by virtue of their budgets, are believed to be above criticism. Ebert is  dedicated to his craft and would probably prefer to spend his time in the  company of classics, but few individuals display such giddiness when given  the &quot;privilege&quot; of witnessing true cinematic chaos. His humor is  to our benefit.	2000-05-28
US	52850854	R1K9UF7BFKJULU	0684859068	302392775	How To Read and Why	Books	5	65	74	N	N	Our greatest advocate for the written word has done it again	More than a mere summary of literary classics, this book is a passionate defense of engaged, informed reading. While the multitude (especially the young) read for credit, praise, or to pad college resumes, Bloom presents a  more reasonable (and insightful) alternative: we read so that we might  better know ourselves. Because Bloom abhors the current fashion of  &quot;socially relevant fiction&quot; that attempts to right past wrongs,  elevate historical victims, and assuage our collective guilt, he believes  that only if we return to a &quot;selfish&quot; form of reading (in that  the use, if there is any, for literature is to discover our natures as  human beings) can we hope to resurrect the dying art of the novel. Bloom  engages us in a journey through short stories, poetry, plays, and novels,  always relying on the text (not some political motive or ideology) to  illuminate our lives. Bloom cares first and foremost for the characters,  situations, and language that allow us to connect in unparalled ways. That  we as a nation should require a &quot;why&quot; when it comes to reading  (and reading intelligently, for Bloom has no tolerance for our Oprah-ized  obsession for supermarket drivel and tales of moral uplift) is depressing  to be sure, but Bloom holds out hope. After all, he must. To contemplate a  world in which we no longer have an answer to the &quot;why&quot; is one,  frankly, not worth living in at all.	2000-05-28
US	52850854	R2D0PTVQPGIZFC	1573225142	106716475	The Western Canon: The Books and School of the Ages	Books	5	16	18	N	N	At last, a celebration of literature.....	After decades of endless bickering from the School of Resentment, we finally have a bold alternative. Bloom necessarily links many works with the flowering of Western Civilization (our ideas, values, and  contradictions), but he remains true to the texts themselves; never  inserting needless political commentary and postmodern gibberish. Bloom  selects a wide variety of authors, which allows the reader to understand  the diverse nature of the canon itself (compared to the artificial and  often times unwarranted &quot;inclusions&quot; often seen in more  politically correct collections). However, the key to this book, or any of  Bloom's undeniably readable work is that he, unlike the self-righteous  voices of multiculturalism (who are only concerned with  &quot;fairness,&quot; righting past wrongs, oppression, and the  &quot;hidden forces&quot; of privilege in literature), understands that the  only concept that truly matters is the one least accepted in our current  age -- JOY. Bloom brings back this underrated and long forgotten reaction  to the written word and I thank him for that.	2000-05-25
US	52850854	R1JA2ZMRSJWEFV	1891620916	299684156	President Reagan: The Role Of A Lifetime	Books	5	20	24	N	N	Masterful biography....one of the best I've ever read	Throughout this mammoth presidential biography, I was continually reminded how unbelievably fair and unbiased it was. I suppose such things should be a given, but too often the politics of the writer interfere with what  should be a detached historical assessment. Cannon, more than any  non-fiction writer on the scene (also see his &quot;Official  Negligence&quot; for a similar lack of ideological grandstanding), respects  the reader, knowing that credible (and exhaustive) sources, extensive,  multi-facteted research, and a balance of criticism and praise brings the  past alive far more than sanctimonious revisionism. As for the Reagan  portrayed in Cannon's work, he is as most of America knew him to be:  charming, devoid of vanity, genuinely friendly, stubbornly committed, and  yes, unmistakably deficient in the realm of day-to-day politics. Moreover,  Reagan himself understood his limitations, approaching the presidency as he  would a film role, or as the CEO of a corporation. Because Reagan was not  equipped intellectually to handle complex policy discussions and position  proposals, he advocated (more so than any president this century) a  &quot;cabinet government,&quot; whereby all major decisions were delegated  to who were presumed to be trusted advisors. To his near downfall, Reagan  trusted too much and his reluctance (and inability) to tackle matters of  high importance in his administration directly led to scandals, abuse of  the public trust, and violations of stated goals. Reagan's achievements are  given their due, but also the proper perspective, for Cannon is not seeking  to deify his subject. Reagan was instrumental in the thaw of U.S.-Soviet  relations, but he also missed many opportunities and often held too  strongly to ideological positions that often contradicted the facts or what  might have been a more pragmatic approach. And, lest we forget, the alleged  opponent of big government failed to submit a balanced budget in his eight  years in office and could not bring himself to cut valued programs of the  New Deal legacy (due in part to a sentimental attachment to FDR). In many  ways, Reagan was a complicated man, although his philosophies were anything  but, which of course added to his lasting appeal with conservatives. Never  a mystery and always up front with his intentions, Reagan was an attractive  figure for a party in need of strong, dedicated leadership. However, Reagan  was flawed in that he was unable to deal with direct confrontation, rapid  change, and facts which came in opposition to his &quot;inner script.&quot;  In all, Cannon presents a fascinating figure; one worth remembering, but  always with a realistic tinge. He gave us our pride, but it came (and  continues to come) at a heavy cost.	2000-05-22
US	52850854	R3W2NPLCAN5YAL	0375503994	196227364	Shrub: The Short but Happy Political Life of George W. Bush	Books	4	12	14	N	N	A disturbing primer for a possible (gulp) Dubya presidency	With a refreshing sense of humor, Ivins has revealed to the country what she as a Texan has known all along: George W. Bush might be a charming man, but he is also the least-qualified man to be a major-party nominee this  century. Not since the Ohio Gang and the &quot;smoke-filled room&quot; of  the Harding era have we witnessed so naked an attempt to install (by fiat,  apparently) an untalented, unprepared, unsophisticated individual in the  White House. While Ivins never shies away from her tongue-in-cheek  perspective, she also amasses a wealth of unavoidable facts about the scant  record of accomplishment by old George Jr. Ivins gives us his shady (yet  unremarkable) past as an oilman; his get-rich-quick scheme with the Texas  Rangers (where he fronted for tycoons and literally blackmailed the public  to finance a new stadium); his Christian &quot;awakening&quot; which set  him on a path of hand-holding with the Religious Right; his poor record as  an environmentalist (Texas ranks 50th in the nation for overall air  quality); his cynical pandering to Hispanics (where his &quot;fluency&quot;  in Spanish is described by many as &quot;so Spanish II&quot;); and on and  on and on. However, the best detail happens to be the one least mentioned  in the press. Despite Bush's claims that he has &quot;reformed&quot; Texas  like no governor before, his powers are necessarily limited by a state  constitution that strips the governor of all but largely ceremonial powers.  As Ivins states, Texas is a &quot;weak governor system.&quot; Because of  this, voters should be even more frightened by the prospect of a Bush  presidency: yes, he is even less qualified than he admits in public. Again,  Ivins makes no bones about it: Bush is a &quot;good man&quot; in the sense  that he remembers names, shakes hands, pats backs, and asks new members of  his cabinet to dinner, but in no way is he a spectacular public man. Bush  abhors policy discussions, avoids reading unless forced, ignores detail,  and has little command of higher intellectual concepts. Quite simply, he is  not interested. And this is the man America has fallen for like no  politician since Reagan? Thanks to this book, we have some ammunition in  the anti-Bush crusade. Beholden only to the radical right and corporate  heads, Bush does not speak for America, only those who wish to see it  evangelized and stripped of all decency, individuality, and nobility. A bit  hyperbolic you might say? Perhaps, but I'll stick with Ivins: more than  Bush himself, I fear a citizenry that finds such a certifiable empty-suit  so appealing.	2000-05-05
US	52850854	RK58HG01DL0L1	0618059458	301023145	The Human Stain	Books	4	71	78	N	N	An explosive broadside against the &quot;ecstasy of sanctimony&quot;	More than an attack on the all-too-familiar topic of political correctness, Roth's new novel manages to encompass the entire culture of self-righteousness and MORAL correctness (which always assumes a more  insidious form than the political). While some of the character  developments are often less than compelling, the central story of Coleman  Silk always remains strong and utterly fascinating. A key point, and often  overlooked in reviews, is Roth's revelation (still unknown to many at this  late date) of the ambiguity and arbitrary nature of racial classification.  If Silk is to be considered black despite being as light as any white man,  what does that do to our sense of &quot;innate&quot; and  &quot;immutable&quot; racial features? As with morality, holding rigid  ideological beliefs about race does little but lead to tragic  misunderstandings and a failure to perceive complexity. Despite some  detours, Roth is an exceptional writer, always insightful and willing to  tackle contemporary controversies without fear. Some might be distracted by  the allusions to the Clinton-Lewinsky affair, but it does serve its  purpose: intelligent, important men are often brought down by their sexual  impulses, but such acts should never outweigh other aspects of character  and achievement. That we need to be reminded of this time after time is  quite sad, but Roth would rather we not forget it. Overall, neither  &quot;liberal&quot; nor &quot;conservative&quot; in the conventional sense,  but an indictment of a hypocritical society bent on using obfuscation and  euphemism to create an environment where, to paraphrase Roth, &quot;what is  being said is not what is really going on.&quot;	2000-05-05
US	52850854	R2Y23TJILY8E9M	0684808293	859962033	In Love With Night: The American Romance With Robert Kennedy	Books	4	6	15	N	N	Brief, if revealing account of an overrated man.......	Far from being tabloid trash or a &quot;supermarket rag,&quot; this book is instead a long overdue attempt to analyze a political and historical figure who has escaped criticism and now exists in a fantasy world beyond the reach of rational assessment. For many, RFK was a romantic figure who  tapped not only into our better selves, but healed the divide that exists  between whites and blacks, as well as rich and poor. He is our symbol of  unity, dedication, and the sort of old-fashioned liberalism that died with  the gunfire of the late 1960s. For the author, as well as anyone not fooled  by the perfecting shades of hindsight, RFK was far more conservative and  self-serving than anyone would ever believe. Are the people too blinded by  idol worship aware of his strong ties (and personal affection for)  witch-hunter Joseph McCarthy? Of his virulent anti-Communism which had more  in common with Barry Goldwater than any figure on the Left? Of his actions  which prompted then-Governor Ronald Reagan to exclaim, &quot;He sounds a  lot like me?&quot; Of his anti-labor and pro-Vietnam stances that bordered  on obsession? I will acknowledge (as does the book) that RFK came to new  attitudes and values as his brief campaign for President went on, but it  can be said that he was running more against LBJ than the war itself and  only after Eugene McCarthy shocked the country in New Hampshire did Kennedy  consider a bid. Moreover, the greatest myth of them all, that RFK was on  the verge of the nomination when he was assassinated, has been overblown to  the point of absurdity. McCarthy was much stronger in the country at large  (remember, RFK won California by a slim margin) and the party machinery was  heavily in favor of the eventual nominee, Hubert Humphrey. Yes, his  &quot;potential&quot; was indeed cut short that evening in Los Angeles, but  it is doubtful that he would have succeeded in his attempt to secure the  Oval Office. By all accounts, RFK was a bitter, obnoxious man more  concerned with restoring the JFK mantle than establishing any new political  territory on his own. Perhaps he desired a break from the painful past, but  RFK did little but literally wave the &quot;bloody shirt&quot; (his speech  at the 1964 convention was a bold attempt to force LBJs hand concerning a  running mate) and remind voters that a Kennedy (ANY Kennedy) deserved  power, respect, and adulation. We can agree for the sake of history that  RFK was an inspiring man in many ways, but his accomplishments are few. As  Attorney General he dragged his feet on integration and civil rights and  his Senatorial career was little more than an extended campaign tour for  1968. Let us put the unblemished image to rest: RFK was just a man...and an  average one at that.	2000-04-24
US	52850854	R247N7TTJ90TKX	0393311333	972450072	Passionate Sage: The Character and Legacy of John Adams	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Brilliant, extraordinary work of history......	Written with wit, charm, and a keen eye for historical detail, this book restores John Adams to his rightful place as one of our most intelligent, prescient forefathers. Dealing primarily with his post-presidential life,  the author creates a fascinating image of an aging, yet mentally sound  patriarch attempting to rehabilitate his image and settle old scores with  former foes. In addition to highlighting the legendary correspondence with  Jefferson (where Adams doubled the epistolary output of Mr. Jefferson), the  author also brings to light his lengthy disputes with Mary Wollstonecraft  and Mercy Otis Warren. Fortunately, Adams is neither belittled nor attacked  with the unfairness of hindsight. Instead, he is presented in the fullness  of his complexity; often self-righteous, obsessive, and grouchy, yet always  believing that the principles of the Revolution were best served by a  national, rather than provincial, approach. Few have disputed Adams'  eloquence or dignity and now, thanks to Mr. Ellis, we can finally see that  Adams just might be one of the most relevant.	2000-02-17
US	52850854	R246TX43EJP0LH	1891620436	450195029	Power and the Presidency	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Brief, but solid overview of the Presidency.....	While most of the material in this thin volume will be familiar to history buffs and scholars of the Presidency, the contributions by the various authors make for a good read. The piece on Reagan by Edmund Morris was  especially good, given that it attempts to penetrate the mystery of  Reagan's charming, yet frustratingly aloof, personality. While it doesn't  break any new ground, the book is worth reading to review material that  might have fallen out of favor.	2000-01-31
US	52850854	R1XGMQYUYDBQ41	189062621X	991819171	Hating Whitey: And Other Progressive Causes	Books	4	17	22	N	N	Important, focused work......	With a title for the ages, this collection of essays works primarily because of the diversity of subject matter and the courage of conviction displayed by Mr. Horowitz. As an individual more comfortable with the Left,  I found that I was often (though not always) in full agreement with the  sentiments expressed. Horowitz wonderfully dissects the madness of  contemporary campus life (and their undeniable suppression of dissent)  while accurately indicting the blatant hypocrisy that surrounds many of our  current &quot;discussions&quot; on race. Horowitz is clearly intelligent  and he writes with a poison pen, but I must part ways with his childish  assessment of President Clinton. I have never understood the self-righteous  explosions that have eminated from the Right on this issue, and Horowitz  does little to dissuade me from the notion that to be anti-Clinton is to  suspend rational thought. To argue with sincerity that Clinton's has been  the most corrupt administration in history and his removal was mandated is  to push hyperbole to new levels. Still, Horowitz provides readers with  strong, cogent arguments and brings the debate on American culture to new  levels. In addition, the inclusion of an essay on his Black Panther  disillusionment was fascinating, sad, and more than enough to understand  the current state of the author's mind. I had fun reading this book and  would highly recommend it to those who would normally shy away out of fear  and loathing. The Left has a lot to learn from conservatives of this  stripe, especially in terms of the great cultural divide that threatens to  envelop us all.	2000-01-28
US	52850854	R2BODYUFB7M5II	1557834067	311632405	The Big Picture	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Light and breezy, but also cynical and witty.....	While Mr. Goldman is no Pauline Kael in terms of film analysis (he plays fast and loose with language rather than constructing fine-tuned essays), he does have a biting sense of humor and is more than willing to laugh at  Hollywood, star power, and yes, even the average American filmgoer. The  best essay in the book, &quot;Who Killed Hollywood?,&quot; discusses not  only the ageless conflict between art and commerce, but the eventual  destructiveness of the Oscars, the dearth of talent both behind and in  front of the camera (not to mention the corporate suite), and the  inevitable nostaligia that creeps in whenever one compares the stars of  today with those of the past. Goldman clearly loves the art of cinema and  his passion shows at every turn, allowing the reader to have great fun with  each successive essay. While the content is a bit repetitive at times  (covering the 1990s, he returns again and again to &quot;the biggest  star&quot; and Oscar notes), the overall tone is refreshing. Goldman is  also willing to admit his love of less-than-noble films (he respects the  high-brow, but is more of a populist than he might admit), and he does not  shy away from puncturing the self-important and well-respected. A must for  film buffs.	2000-01-24
US	52850854	R2C9RKEJBNJUEF	1565843444	849640122	Lies Across America: What Our Historic Sites Get Wrong	Books	5	19	26	N	N	Essential reading for all Americans, regardless of viewpoint	As the author states, we cannot change what happened in the past, but we CAN choose how to remember it. Those who criticize this book as P.C. revisionism miss the point -- they incorrectly believe that interrogating  history and demanding that truth be a complex, ever-evolving process are  notions that are necessarily &quot;political&quot; or tainted by bias. How  interesting it is that most people who dismiss the arguments as  &quot;politically correct&quot; choose to perpetuate myth and &quot;feel  good&quot; history at the expense of more uncomfortable realities. The  author believes that while many people and events in our history are  racist, unfair, and immoral, we should always remember them for the lessons  they provide. However, he rightfully draws the line at commemoration. For  example, we should embrace any and all attempts to understand the history  and legacy of the Ku Klux Klan (the author would never abide by silence),  but what is gained (the key here) by having statues and plaques that  glorify the actions of unapologetic bigots and murderers? Rather than twist  and demonize (as some people claim), the author chooses to expose our love  affair with patently untrue &quot;memories&quot; and entire belief systems.  While we can appreciate heritage, it is unwise to equate such things with a  dispassionate, objective pursuit of historical truth. The former tends to  evade and conveniently leave out less than noble details, while the latter  brings us closer to our collective American selves.	2000-01-20
US	52850854	R2Y5WOZN4NF4UX	0465007376	228877996	Intimate History Of Killing	Books	4	15	18	N	N	Well-written, but overly familiar material.....	While the central theme is bold and original, the documentation and historical data fail to break any real ground. Still, to argue that human beings (yes, even Americans) enjoy killing and warfare far more than we  would imagine is daring in an age when we prefer to discuss  &quot;sacrifice&quot; and &quot;nobility in death&quot; more than  deliberate and calculated killing. Interestingly enough, the book is far  from a pacifist rant and the author refrains from demonizing soldiers and  their superiors. Instead, the book concerns itself with the unavoidable  truth about war: men, often from good backgrounds, possessing educations  and the capacity for warmth and love, are able to brutally take the lives  of others with little disruption to their conscience. Furthermore, these  men are able to return to &quot;civilization&quot; and resume their duties  as husbands, fathers, and workers. The author raises important questions  related to our blindness about this disturbing fact. Perhaps, as she  states, men remain quiet about their wartime experiences not because they  are ashamed or disgusted, but because they enjoyed it in ways that cannot  be conveyed to civilians and loved ones. The book will hopefully expand the  debate about war and killing and instead of oversimplifying the factors  that both cause and result from the ultimate form of human combat, we might  attempt to face our collective (and human) passions and urges.	2000-01-06
US	52850854	R1FY8SEX7P6IG0	067944243X	642454765	Sleeping with Extra-Terrestrials: The Rise of Irrationalism and Perils of Piety	Books	5	54	58	N	N	A bold, audacious work that deserves recognition......	In a rare feat of courage and conviction, Kaminer manages a witty, perceptive challenge to not only the easy targets of New Age, conspiracy theories, and political correctness, but also the sacred cow of  Christianity. She accurately indicts America's guiding religion as  subscribing to many of the same tenets and irrational principles as some of  the more ridiculous spiritual trends. Kaminer's unpredictability is also  appreciated, for many Christians and self-help addicts are likely to label  this book the product of a nihilistic liberal bent on destroying the social  fabric. Instead, the author skewers all political persuasions, reserving  barbed attacks for feminists, campus leftists (and censors), and the  therapeutic Administration in Washington, in addition to the usual array of  TV pundits, self-styled gurus, and obnoxious moral policemen. Still, the  heart of Kaminer's argument, while humorously put, is rather sad in the  end. We are a culture devoted not to the liberation of the mind, but its  continual enslavement to superstition, untested and unprovable beliefs, and  shallow spirituality. As a result, we transform individualism from a vital,  inspiring journey through the history of human thought into a depressing,  slumping parade of phobias, wounds, afflictions, and childish needs.	1999-12-09
US	52850854	R1OKDP6ATJ3SD6	0674479408	801476517	John Quincy Adams: A Public Life, a Private Life	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Long awaited biography of a forgotten historical figure.....	Because he only served one, ineffectual term, JQA is often considered a mediocre and unimportant figure. This book corrects that faulty assumption and places him at the center of American history. Statesman, intellectual,  author, poet, and visionary, JQA earns the respect and admiration of the  reader because he placed the United States ahead of sectional interests.  While many readers might be more familiar with the post-presidential Adams  (by virtue of the film &quot;Amistad&quot;), his pre-House career is as  important and fascinating. Moreover, the inclusion of the personal side of  Adams is, unlike so many contemporary re-examinations of notable figures,  warranted and insightful. Rather than being used to tear down a man of  power, the author uses the information to complete the picture, presenting  a highly moral and guilt-ridden individual. Readable and full of delicious  anecdotes and quotes, &quot;JQA&quot; is one of the more solid  contributions to historical biography in recent years.	1999-12-03
US	52850854	REYMA3T7PJHFD	0395855128	305449794	Patriarch: George Washington and the New American Nation	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Solid overview of America's first commander-in-chief.......	Because this book focuses exclusively on Washington's presidency, it avoids the trappings of postmodernist social history and instead gives us a portrait of power. More than a mere dupe of Hamilton, Washington is  presented instead as a symbol of dignity; firm, intelligent, and focused.  While the author makes it clear that Washington was far from the man of  marble so often portrayed in grade school history books, he was nonetheless  a man of true principle -- especially in terms of Federalist philosophy.  Modern readers should take note of Washington's belief in a strong central  government and a distrust of states' rights and factions. Also, the author  rightly places his Farewell Address in the pantheon of great American  documents -- a collection of remarkably prescient prose arguably as  influential as anything ever written by Jefferson or Lincoln.	1999-12-02
US	52850854	R23CQKHPI3XP6Y	0195053907	709083618	A Cinema of Loneliness: Penn, Kubrick, Scorsese, Spielberg, Altman (Oxford paperbacks)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A film book of rare insight and intelligence........	Worth reading for the Kubrick chapter alone, this book considers the work of our finest directors and contrasts them with the conservatism and anti-intellectualism of 1980s cinema. Moreover, the author discusses  community, alienation, dehumanization, and loneliness, all from a fresh,  unpretentious standpoint.	1999-07-25
US	52850854	R1M7VKL452UXMM	0394703170	962910322	Anti-Intellectualism in American Life	Books	5	199	208	N	N	Brilliant analysis of the American mind.......	Before this book, I had never contemplated the differences between intelligence and intellectualism, but now, armed with Hofstadter's witty, sophisticated study, I can, with confidence, better survey our national  landscape. Not only does the author reveal our anti-intellectual roots, he  deconstructs the origins of our commitment to &quot;practical  knowledge.&quot; Whether it's religion or the business ethic, American  culture has sanctioned and outwardly promoted a disdain for intellectual  contemplation in favor of more &quot;functional&quot; learning that will  (must), in the end, bring about conformity, commercialism, and  commodification, NOT abstract thought. The book is a masterpiece and if  there are any people left in this country who believe the mind is the last  refuge of true freedom, it should serve as a revolutionary cry for all of  us to follow.	1999-06-19
US	52850854	R35IT5KKQ1PH1Q	0060173726	814341775	Saving Childhood: Protecting Our Children from the National Assault on Innocence	Books	1	12	50	N	N	Here we go again........	Michael Medved, the patron now attempts to convince America that the key to our collective survival lies in the need for cookie-cutter, complacent, conformity-minded children. How does a  parent strip all individuality from a child? It's in here. How does a  parent raise a paranoid, naive, utterly unprepared child? It's also in  here. Remember parents, the enemy is reality, and it's best to tell your  children that sex, independent thought, intellectualism, and complexity are  all evil and must be avoided at all costs. Is there a national assault on  innocence? Perhaps. But is it a better alternative to declare war on  sanity?	1999-06-15
US	52850854	RPXCFNHK56QJQ	0060924357	885692835	Hollywood vs. America: The Explosive Bestseller that Shows How-and Why-the Entertainment Industry Has Broken Faith With Its Audience	Books	1	24	76	N	N	More self-righteous diatribe, than a book about film....	Welcome to the world of Michael Medved, where all films are simplistic, child-friendly, &quot;Sound of Music&quot; romps in the park where all people are white, Christian, complacent, and frightfully dull. Medved needs  to turn in his critic's license because he is far more interested in  promoting a right-wing religious agenda than he is objectively reviewing  films. Not only is he silly, but he seems to believe that films must meet a  moral criteria, otherwise they aren't worth watching. This is a critic?  Where is the commitment to open-mindedness? What a tragic waste of pulp  this ridiculous book is, and I can't imagine anyone but the most rock-solid  fundamentalist enjoying even a page of it. Believe me, readers will learn  nothing new about film here; Medved has already made up your mind for you.	1999-06-15
US	52850854	R3TPUKD9UDWZGS	067975833X	289325498	Confederates in the Attic: Dispatches from the Unfinished Civil War	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A bold, funny, contentious account of historical memory.....	As a thrilling supplement to more scholarly studies of the Civil War, I would recommend this joyous romp of a book. Combining data, interviews, and first-hand accounts, this book presents a side of history rarely seen:  those who believe that the only road to authenticity lies in  &quot;hardcore&quot; re-creations. While the people are sources of charm  and humor, they are never mocked. If anything, the author presents these  folks as the last bastion of &quot;true&quot; historical study left in  America. At the very least, he believes, these people are passionate,  involved, and are willing to keep memory alive in an age of apathy and  ignorance. While there are several points that will bring about feelings of  anger and sadness (especially when the author journeys to the schools of  Alabama), the author is always fair and attempts to discover why it is that  the Civil War provokes such strong feelings even today. While the war was a  complex mix of politics, race, power, leadership, law, and sectional  rivalry, it has been, especially in our age of political correctness,  reduced to oversimplified &quot;movements&quot; and self-serving slogans.  Thanks to this book, we can hopefully reclaim the war and return it to more  academic, intellectual circles where it belongs.	1999-06-14
US	52850854	R3INP3PVJMFLMQ	0375500081	193085718	Turn of the Century: A Novel	Books	1	1	2	N	N	The least interesting piece of fiction of the decade.....	I gave up after 200 pages. No character registered, the &quot;narrative&quot; (I use heavy quotes here) was non-existent, the dialogue banal, and the point beyond elusive. Fiction, while it should be  incisive, must also be entertaining. This is neither. Alternately dull,  frustrating, pretentious, inconsequential, and infuriating. Some have  compared it to Wolfe; DO NOT believe them.	1999-06-10
US	52850854	R3II44M6Y0B0ZI	0684839199	419002241	Alexander Hamilton, American	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Finally! A fair, much-needed assessment of THE Founder.....	Given that this is the first major biography of Hamilton since Forrest McDonald's over 20 years ago, I was quite excited to see the release of this book. While it is far from a comprehensive, detailed historical opus,  it does analyze his importance to the history of this nation, especially in  terms of his nationalism, belief in the primacy of the federal government,  and most important, the desire to foster America's industrial, capitalist,  and military strength. To Jefferson we owe our idealism, but to Hamilton we  owe our true sense of self; the power and self-confidence that stems from  economic progress and advancement. In addition, Hamilton was against  slavery far in advance of many others, and his writings (especially  &quot;The Federalist Papers&quot;) are vast and far-reaching. This is a  great introduction to Hamilton and I hope it inspires others to re-evaluate  this key figure in our national identity.	1999-03-02
US	52850854	R2AGQ3HIBW9Z0D	0446606812	372605776	Message in a Bottle	Books	1	3	10	N	N	The literary equivalent of a 2X4 to the skull.....	this alleged &quot;novel&quot; (I use the word lightly in the case of this endless stream of cliches, hollow banalities, and predictable &quot;twists&quot;) has no redeeming qualities whatsoever outside of  convincing me that the American public have lost their ability to  distinguish writing from chicken scratch. Why would women like this book so  much? Are they that lonely? Would they really enjoy meeting a man so unable  to get over himself? This book is an ode to narcissism if anything, and it  will drive cynics even harder to rip to shreds any and all attempts at  romance fiction in the future.	1999-02-27
US	52850854	R3VMY02RYWSGTL	0688077943	572140372	Florence Harding: The First Lady, the Jazz Age, and the Death of America's Most Scandalous President	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Surprisingly good! A thoroughly fascinating, literate read.	Never would I have thought that a book about the wife of Warren Harding, a  president largely dismissed as the worst in U.S. history, would be so  entertaining, absorbing, and historically valuable. Not only does it  provide in-depth analyses of the scandals, the controversy surrounding  Warren's death, and the political climate of the times, but the book  presents a strong woman clearly ahead of her time. In addition, the author  provides a wealth of detail, especially relating to Harding's progressive  views, that I had never seen anywhere else. I thank the author for bringing  this period in our history to light and giving all history buffs new ideas  to ponder. After all, we've seen countless books on Lincoln, Jefferson, and  FDR, and while Harding is light years away from them, it is still  refreshing to learn about the neglected figures of the past.	1998-09-28
