US	52851773	R1MJ41FQ90MEXM	0688151175	530207556	His Name Is Ron: Our Search for Justice	Books	4	19	23	N	N	The Proper Perspective of the OJ Trial	Fred Goldman has always impressed me.  Here is a guy who was forced to deal with his tremendous grief in a very involuntarily public fashion, who totally kept his act together while expressing as much rage as possible without comprising his credibility.  There was no rush to forgiveness of his son's killer, as we too often see as a symptom of this country's desire to conflate unconditional forgiveness with \\"enlightenment.\\"  Did most rational people secretly hope Fred would shoot OJ outside the courtroom or run him over with his car in the streets of Brentwood?  Of course.  However, the Goldman family didn't need the additional difficulty of Fred's arrest, and their case didn't need anything to detract from the monumental evidence supporting OJ's commission of the murders.  Sadly, it was Johnnie Cochran and his \\"Scheme Team\\" that derailed the locomotive of justice, through at least race-mongering and conspiracy theory.<br /><br />\\"His Name Is Ron\\" allows the Goldmans to vent some of their anger, and recounts the life and death of their son and subsequent trials with great detail, dignity, and a surprisingly amount of objectivity.  They didn't need the money for the book: its writing arose to counter \\"works\\" from the dark side, including from the killer himself, and from a desire to set the record straight about their son.  The Goldmans were never baited by the black-white race card played by the defense team; they, like so many of us, hated OJ because of what he did, not who he was.  Expressions of the Goldmans' understandable erosion of faith in the legal system are balanced with a continued recognition that, defects notwithstanding, we still need fair legal representation for criminals and to at least attempt to conduct fair trials.  Certain Goldman family members even remain opposed to the death penalty, despite the fact that OJ made many nation-wide change their mind in favor of capital punishment.<br /><br />For anyone who wasn't familiar with all the finer points of the Trial/Blunder of the Century, this book is gives a clear and informed account, and is particularly eye-opening with respect to the pain endured by the Goldman family.  As the litany of horrors described grew, so did my admiration for Fred, Kim, Patti, etc., and for their ability to not suffer nervous breakdowns.  The non-exhaustive list of insult added to the Goldmans' injury includes watching OJ laugh and joke with his oily lawyers, taunt the victims' families, and recount his golf game during the trials; witnessing a juror throw a black power salute to the criminal defense team, definitively acknowledging the trial boiled down to nothing more than race; being scolded by courtroom officials for drinking bottled water during the trial, and risking losing courtroom seats that weren't filled every day; lectures about courtroom decorum from the trashy family of Nicole Brown; an interloping mother of the deceased, who had no involvement with the family until she saw dollar signs from Ron's death; and death threats made against the family and its legal counsel.<br /><br />Sadly, I recently heard that the Goldmans have yet to see any money from OJ- not because they need the money, but because every dollar gained represents one lost by the killer.  I also believe that Safe Streets, the victims-rights organization that Fred Goldman become a part of, is no more.  This country needs a lot more advocacy for real victims than for criminals, and people like Fred Goldman help us make gains to that end, turning pain into progress.  One final wish is for the Goldmans to realize their dreams of OJ's premature (though by now, already too late) death sometime soon.points of the Trial/Blunder of the Century, this book is gives a clear and informed account, and is particularly eye-opening with respect to the pain endured by the Goldman family.  As the litany of horrors described grew, so did my admiration for Fred, Kim, Patti, etc., and for their ability to not suffer nervous breakdowns.  The non-exhaustive list of insult added to the Goldmans' injury includes watching OJ laugh and joke with his oily lawyers, taunt the victims' families, and recount his golf game during the trials; witnessing a juror throw a black power salute to the criminal defense team, definitively acknowledging the trial boiled down to nothing more than race; being scolded by courtroom officials for drinking bottled water during the trial, and risking losing courtroom seats that weren't filled every day; lectures about courtroom decorum from the trashy family of Nicole Brown; an interloping mother of the deceased, who had no involvement with the family until she saw dollar signs from Ron's death; and death threats made against the family and its legal counsel.   <br /> <br />Sadly, I recently heard that the Goldmans have yet to see any money from OJ- not because they need the money, but because every dollar gained represents one lost by the killer.  I also believe that Safe Streets, the victims-rights organization that Fred Goldman become a part of, is no more.  This country needs a lot more advocacy for real victims than for criminals, and people like Fred Goldman help us make gains to that end, turning pain into progress.  One final wish is for the Goldmans to realize their dreams of OJ's premature (though by now, already too late) death sometime soon.	2004-08-25
US	52851773	R3E10K71YMVRG7	0767912101	843719464	Cosmopolitan: A Bartender's Life	Books	2	21	25	N	N	Parisian-wannabe pours drinks for those he's too good for	Toby Cecchini's lavish and loving descriptions of alcohol really make you want to have a drink; in fact, I'm a beer-only guy, and found myself hankering for a martini or Manhattan while I read Cosmopolitan.  Not with the author, though, who maintains the effete and disdainful tone of a French snob throughout.  There isn't a single instance in this book's 238 pages where a $10,000 word and/or a French turn of phrase wasn't substituted for the $10 version, regardless of the fit.  This was as goofy as it was distracting, and I can't imagine it endears the smarmy author to anyone who reads this.<br /><br />Case in point: \\"I always marveled at the &eacute;lan with which he pulled off that simple action; my efforts at duplicating this maneuver always end with me bludgeoning the recalcitrant glacier mercilessly as chips fly helter skelter.\\"  Um, call me crazy, but isn't that a mite highfalutin to describe watching someone chip ice?  And while describing the staff at a restaurant where he used to work: \\"Even now, at the remove of more than a decade, it is easy to conjure, but difficult to summarize, the atmosphere of that floor, its peculiar combination of superfluous terror and incestuous, striving kinesis.\\"  Pal, the only reason it might be \\"difficult to summarize\\" a bunch of the interaction between a bunch of waiters, cooks, and bartenders, is because you're trying too hard.  The last time I saw this much use of the word \\"lovely\\" was when I brought our daughter to my grandmother's senior center,<br /><br />It gets worse.  There is an obnoxious Europhilic tone throughout Cosmopolitan, as if all Americans are yokels undeserving of the drinks he pours (sorry, \\"the gustatory libations he decants\\")- Cecchini fantasizes of his dream bar, which among other things, only accepts Euros; he refuses to serve a Cosmopolitan to a customer who asks for a \\"Cosmo\\"; he sizes up customers approaching his bar, and thinks through some gift of human insight he knows everything about them from just their walk or drink order; he describes a wine argument with a friend, during which Cecchini referred to a Pomerol as a Pommard- the friend gloated about it for two years (anyone call for an Ambiguously Gay Duo?).  There are many instances when Cecchini describes standing behind the bar and observing his customers from a pompous distance, having a laugh or a shake of his head at the human condition, as if he's so above their depredations because of the two foot wall of oak between them.<br /><br />On the plus side, this guy clearly loves his craft, and brings enough experience and perspective to the table to keep his audience interested.  I wouldn't have thought there were this many aspects to discuss about bartending, and was pleasantly surprised by the wealth of topics: the adulation met by workers at a city hot spot; the difficulties of entering the NYC restaurant business (this book is a cautionary tale against getting in the New York food game); the process of stocking the bar's alcohol in a way to ensure only those crowds you want; the art of being a good listener without getting too involved; crowd control; interesting and unpredictable barflies; and  the chemistry necessary between two bartenders working the same shift.<br /><br />Cacchini almost redeems himself with a couple of uncharacteristically humble stories at the end: the first describes his morbid curiosity and horror at hosting a raunchy bachelor party at his bar, and his struggles to get closer to observe the action, while at the same time maintaining professionalism.  The second involves a trip to Europe, stumbling into a family-run bar and getting swept up in a week of unconditional hospitality.  These two anecdotes aren't enough, though, to bring this snob back to Earth.ust their walk or drink order; he describes a wine argument with a friend, during which Cecchini referred to a Pomerol as a Pommard- the friend gloated about it for two years (anyone call for an Ambiguously Gay Duo?).  There are many instances when Cecchini describes standing behind the bar and observing his customers from a pompous distance, having a laugh or a shake of his head at the human condition, as if he's so above their depredations because of the two foot wall of oak between them. <br /> <br />On the plus side, this guy clearly loves his craft, and brings enough experience and perspective to the table to keep his audience interested.  I wouldn't have thought there were this many aspects to discuss about bartending, and was pleasantly surprised by the wealth of topics: the adulation met by workers at a city hot spot; the difficulties of entering the NYC restaurant business (this book is a cautionary tale against getting in the New York food game); the process of stocking the bar's alcohol in a way to ensure only those crowds you want; the art of being a good listener without getting too involved; crowd control; interesting and unpredictable barflies; and  the chemistry necessary between two bartenders working the same shift. <br /> <br />Cacchini almost redeems himself with a couple of uncharacteristically humble stories at the end: the first describes his morbid curiosity and horror at hosting a raunchy bachelor party at his bar, and his struggles to get closer to observe the action, while at the same time maintaining professionalism.  The second involves a trip to Europe, stumbling into a family-run bar and getting swept up in a week of unconditional hospitality.  These two anecdotes aren't enough, though, to bring this snob back to Earth.	2004-08-25
US	52851773	R3VGF58XK40EST	0060392886	8442482	The Dirt: Confessions of the World's Most Notorious Rock Band	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Filthy, Gritty Guilty Pleasure	The Dirt is every bit to literature what a Motley Crue concert is to music: an ugly four-headed monster that sticks out like a sore, infected thumb.  It sure was a blast to read, though, and was surprisingly well written, too.  This work clearly was a long time in the making, had the full participation and endorsement of the band members and anyone within a mile radius, and was intended to be head and shoulders above the tossed-together [stuff] that serves as usual rock (auto)biographical fare.  The research shows, from interviews with people from the band's deep past, to pictures documenting its 20 year ride, to use of old magazine articles and programs.  The use of visuals is never overwhelming, nor does it eclipse the journal-style script.  It's like a sly read through your older brother's diary or scrapbook, if your older brother were a hell of a lot cooler.<br />Neil Strauss clearly earned his keep polishing the raw material of the Crue interviews into the grammatically correct, coherent, and never misspelled text.  He kept a tight leash on the stories, which are remarkably consistent even when told by multiple sources.  Let's face it- as anyone who is familiar with this band (even by watching Behind the Music) can attest, with the exception of Nikki Sixx, followed maybe by Vince in a distant second, this is not an articulate group of guys one guitar-lick away from Mensa membership.  Tommy Lee comes off like a burnt out frat guy, Mick spits off non-sequiturs and pap about extraterrestrial life as if he's just trying to lose the audience, Vince is self-indulgent, and Nikki plays the role of drug and family dysfunction victim with vision.<br />Their story is fascinating, from the seedy beginning living in absolute squalor on Sunset Strip, to Tommy's jail time.  There is death, drugs, and sex, all described in excess that would make you question the story's credibility more, if you could only snap out of your reverie.  The Dirt is a wild throwback to the metal bands of the 80s, and names like Ratt and Hanoi Rocks surface to remind you how old you've gotten.  Enjoy the ride: this truly is a story of how life in a band is supposed be about going to hell and back, not winning American Idol or serving as a dancing puppet for a rich Svengali.bands of the 80s, and names like Ratt and Hanoi Rocks surface to remind you how old you've gotten.  Enjoy the ride: this truly is a story of how life in a band is supposed be about going to hell and back, not winning American Idol or serving as a dancing puppet for a rich Svengali.	2003-07-31
US	52851773	R1JZU66AN0LOG4	0743225708	281016025	Bringing Down the House: The Inside Story of Six M.I.T. Students Who Took Vegas for Millions	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Geekier, Less Ambitious Ocean's Eleven	Bringing Down the House describes a few years in the lives of a handful of cocky, largely socially-clueless MIT nerds who bring their math skills to Las Vegas for enormous profit.  Card counting is their game, combined with an elaborate network of aliases, codes, teamwork, and later, disguises.  The intracacies of their plan, while not hard to understand, were nevertheless brilliant, and clearly gave them an advantage over the casinos.  Their techniques were clearly described in BDTH, complete with analogies and tricks to make blackjack and the way to beat its odds even more comprehensible to the non-player.<br /><br />The players got fantastically greedy around the same time the casinos got more sophisticated in their methods of tracking cheats and card counters.  You get the impression that main character Kevin Lewis and his gang were very, very lucky not to have gotten in more trouble than described in the book (which amounted to a slap on the wrist, really); and you also appreciate the amazing, disgusting greed that kept the group going back for more despite obscene winnings and warnings that would have scared smarter (socially, that is, not book-wise) people away.  Las Vegas, and the nation's casino network, really, became too small a place for their card-counting organization to operate, especially when you learn that MIT operated several teams (and that the tech school wasn't the only game in town, either).<br /><br />Mezrich does a great job of devising dialogue and scene details that could not have been remembered to the same degree.  He also adds an element of credibility to the tale by going through some of its subjects' steps himself, such as transporting cash strapped to his person through airport security, and counting a few rounds in a major casino.  What he doesn't do, however, is make the reader like any of the main characters- they all come across as phony jerks who slip too easily into slimy alter egos.  There are a few times when Mezrich tries to keep \\"the real\\" Kevin Lewis separate from his gaming personas, and describe him as winsome in the process, but to no avail.  Lewis, Martinez, Fisher, etc. were too convincing in playing slimeballs, and acting like they thought the world was their oyster, to calmly come back to Earth and resume their humble Boston identities.<br /><br />There was also some \\"David-vs-Goliath\\" nonsense spouted by the card players, who viewed themselves as valiantly undermining evil corporate casinos as they counted at the blackjack tables.  The nobility of their efforts quickly became dubious, though, with each mention of big money spent at strip clubs, steak dinners, and tipping bar doormen.  These were all kids of privilege, too, by the sounds of it, and most likely ended up working for the very evil corporate world that they foolishly imagined themselves railing against.<br /><br />Although this story was tightly knit and felt complete, there are some missing pieces that I'm still curious about: who were some of the people responsible for funding the MIT teams (i.e., who provided the seed money for the gambling excursions)?  Who ratted out Kevin Lewis' team, and who was responsible for the shakedowns and threats that scared them away?  Why would the players confide in author Ben Mezrich, without fear of retaliation or dragging down anyone else still in the game?l\\" Kevin Lewis separate from his gaming personas, and describe him as winsome in the process, but to no avail.  Lewis, Martinez, Fisher, etc. were too convincing in playing slimeballs, and acting like they thought the world was their oyster, to calmly come back to Earth and resume their humble Boston identities.       There was also some \\"David-vs-Goliath\\" nonsense spouted by the card players, who viewed themselves as valiantly undermining evil corporate casinos as they counted at the blackjack tables.  The nobility of their efforts quickly became dubious, though, with each mention of big money spent at strip clubs, steak dinners, and tipping bar doormen.  These were all kids of privilege, too, by the sounds of it, and most likely ended up working for the very evil corporate world that they foolishly imagined themselves railing against.    Although this story was tightly knit and felt complete, there are some missing pieces that I'm still curious about: who were some of the people responsible for funding the MIT teams (i.e., who provided the seed money for the gambling excursions)?  Who ratted out Kevin Lewis' team, and who was responsible for the shakedowns and threats that scared them away?  Why would the players confide in author Ben Mezrich, without fear of retaliation or dragging down anyone else still in the game?	2003-07-25
US	52851773	R2F7BODCTUIY2N	0451160444	467915322	Christine (Signet)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Fabulous Character Development (including the Car)	Steven King's stories succeed in part because of his phenomenal character development.  He spends the first third or so of his books thoroughly investing you in all of the characters, including the minor ones, giving a bit of foreshadowing along the way.  You are aware that something is brewing, and you are given the tools to appreciate the characters' motivations (and perhaps to even enable them later on), but in reality, you're just tagging along as these folks lead their average, unassuming lives.  In this case, you're brought aboard for Senior year in town near Philadelphia, observing kids' lives which are very much like your own (were):  Dennis is occupied with his football season; Arnie follows his parents' orders to get good grades in preparation for college (and spends his college money on a car to their chagrin); and Leigh tries to acclimate to her surroundings as the (beautiful) new girl in town.<br />By the time the action is imminent, you're so much a part of these characters' lives that you wouldn't care if the last 200 pages documented their meeting at the grocery store to shop together, or their joining a bookclub.  However, King has so much to offer in this regard, too: a possessed car that takes over its owner's will and personality; a gory and recurring revenge theme; a struggle between friends (and girlfriend) that culminates in a terrifying intervention; and a cop who begins to believe the unbelievable, potentially jeopardizing his safety in the process.  King also somehow gives the perfect rationalization for why Christine can drive on her own, and more importantly, for why this can terrify the reader like a good horror story subject should.<br />Throw in the curious switch of narrator from 1st person (Dennis) to 3rd, and back to 1st; a healthy dose of violence and action that is never gratuitous; and a detailed description of auto-bodies and car culture, and the picture is complete.  This story will not disappoint	2003-07-19
US	52851773	RW5G0QRZZVBMH	1586420631	937214712	Street Soldier: My Life as an Enforcer for Whitey Bulger and the Irish Mob	Books	4	31	37	N	N	Violently Captivating	Street Soldier is as intense as a kick in the teeth with a steel-toed boot, but without the pain and drive to the hospital.  You get the same cringe of discomfort and sick-to-your-stomach feeling reading about MacKenzie's horrible acts of violence, though- not to mention all the same rubbernecking fascination.  His tale is formulaic in a lot of ways: \\"Mac\\" is passed around from one foster home to another, abused and molested as a kid; he quickly excels at a life of crime and rises to great and seedy heights; and he gets caught, crashes, and waxes about his mistakes.  Those heights reached were probably not known outside of South Boston, even notwithstanding the raft of Irish Mob stories of the last decade (representing a wave that Street Soldier is clearly trying to ride).  Locality doesn't matter, though, since the story is interesting enough to transcend state and cultural lines.<br />It is also violent enough to cross the lines of good taste.  Not like I objected, but be forewarned that no details are spared as Mac clinically and dispassionately describes the kicking in of ribs, biting off of ears and fingers, and pulling out of teeth, all to collect a buck or spread the word of his boss' displeasure.  All in a day's work...<br />Some of the more interesting aspects of this story that separate it from its peers include MacKenzie's love for, and prowess in, the martial arts and boxing.  While obviously helpful to his career as a thug, they allowed Mac to win heaps of athletic awards that in another lifetime could have been his ticket to legitimacy.  Mac also didn't seem to indulge in the drugs and substances that he pushed, which arguably helped him remember the last 20 years more clearly.  Additionally, this may be one of the first accounts of the Boston Irish Mob scene to really expose all of Whitey's flaws, transgression, and evil facets, even though Mac arguably stands nothing to gain (and everything to lose) by so doing.  Lastly, Mac is speaking from the other side of his Mob life, having crossed without having failed.  I mean, he got pinched, and had to rat out and set up Colombian drug lords in order to gain his own freedom, but he was pretty much a perfect success in Whitey's organization (at least as he tells it).  The end of his criminal career was mostly engendered by Whitey's picking up shop and disappearing.<br />Mac's tone as he recounts his life's work reveals a lot about how he views his violent role in society.  Although he is careful to give the appearance of self-deprecation and candor about choosing the wrong path, you quickly get the impression he's window dressing, and is entirely too comfortable with having  spent most of his adult life hurting and stealing from others.  True, a lot of guys harmed were no angels, but there are a lot of innocents beaten up for the sake of it, and houses ransacked for a quick buck that went more to beers and good times than food and necessities.  You wish Mac had had more violent comeuppance in his lifetime, and, no, his hard times as a kid just don't quite rise to the level of compelling the reader to enable his actions.<br />The tone grows worse as the book wanes, too.  Mac starts complaining about justice, particularly regarding one of his violent thug friends who is still locked up, without any irony whatsoever.  Despite having walked away scot-free after a life preying upon poor, honest victims that he sized up as living suckers' lives, he has no problem whining about the world's injustices.  Also unsettling is that Mac admits to not knowing whether or not living on the level is the right path for him; there is enough uncertainty about his flying straight to make it seem like the only happy ending means Mac is locked up away from the rest of us.other side of his Mob life, having crossed without having failed.  I mean, he got pinched, and had to rat out and set up Colombian drug lords in order to gain his own freedom, but he was pretty much a perfect success in Whitey's organization (at least as he tells it).  The end of his criminal career was mostly engendered by Whitey's picking up shop and disappearing.  <br />Mac's tone as he recounts his life's work reveals a lot about how he views his violent role in society.  Although he is careful to give the appearance of self-deprecation and candor about choosing the wrong path, you quickly get the impression he's window dressing, and is entirely too comfortable with having  spent most of his adult life hurting and stealing from others.  True, a lot of guys harmed were no angels, but there are a lot of innocents beaten up for the sake of it, and houses ransacked for a quick buck that went more to beers and good times than food and necessities.  You wish Mac had had more violent comeuppance in his lifetime, and, no, his hard times as a kid just don't quite rise to the level of compelling the reader to enable his actions.  <br />The tone grows worse as the book wanes, too.  Mac starts complaining about justice, particularly regarding one of his violent thug friends who is still locked up, without any irony whatsoever.  Despite having walked away scot-free after a life preying upon poor, honest victims that he sized up as living suckers' lives, he has no problem whining about the world's injustices.  Also unsettling is that Mac admits to not knowing whether or not living on the level is the right path for him; there is enough uncertainty about his flying straight to make it seem like the only happy ending means Mac is locked up away from the rest of us.	2003-07-17
US	52851773	R3VL9WVEZA0WFK	0375700382	315060697	The Fight	Books	1	18	35	N	N	99% About Norman Mailer, 1% About the Fight	Question: How to take The Rumble in the Jungle, one of the most amazing sports events in the last fifty years and completely ruin it in a print account?  Answer: Entrust the writing to Norman Mailer.  Pompous windbag Mailer barely describes the 1974 heavyweight title fight in Zaire between Muhammad Ali and George Foreman, using million-dollar words that feel light-years away from the raw and visceral atmosphere of a boxing match.  He also uses a totally inappropriately-applied ambiguous and ethereal kind of style that was better suited to Joseph Conrad's Heart of Darkness.  There are seriously passages in this book where you are capable of completely forgetting you're reading about a boxing match (or about anything grounded in reality, for that matter).<br />I was interested in reading this story because I liked the documentary When We Were Kings so much, and wanted to glean additional details from other sources.  How wrong I was to get steered down this path.  This book was like a long Norman Mailer tedious journal entry, done in the fawning style of a thirteen year old girl who met one of the Backstreet Boys after a concert.  Mailer gushes about how Ali called him &quot;a man of wisdom,&quot; and doesn't shut up about it for the entire book.  He is clearly in love with Ali, and with the black race  in general, waxing philosophically and totally ineptly about the differences between the races (and his perception of whites as inferior).<br />Mailer even has the gall to compare his own geriatric and bloated &quot;struggles&quot; with those endured by Ali and Foreman.  For instance, the wrinkled balloon accompanies Ali on a jog one morning, after having eaten and drank too much only hours before, and drones endlessly about the experience with more drama than many Vietnam vets bring to their war accounts.  In a similar vein, Mailer offers the following to describe his airline travails:  &quot;To be trapped in the middle of three seats in Economy on the 19 hour flight from Kinshasa to New York... had to be one of the intimate clues life offered of suffering after death.&quot;  Give me a break.<br />Oh yeah- I almost forgot:  Mailer refers to himself in the third person, too, throughout the book;  but only after a long, over-analytical account of how he decided to do so.<br />If this book wasn't so short, and if I weren't getting so many laughs out of Mailer's arrogance, I would have never have had the stamina or stomach to finish.  Thank God I took this out of the library.  I needed to watch When We Were Kings all over again when I finished, just to wash the taste of The Fight out of my mouth.ht from Kinshasa to New York... had to be one of the intimate clues life offered of suffering after death.&quot;  Give me a break.  <br />Oh yeah- I almost forgot:  Mailer refers to himself in the third person, too, throughout the book;  but only after a long, over-analytical account of how he decided to do so.  <br />If this book wasn't so short, and if I weren't getting so many laughs out of Mailer's arrogance, I would have never have had the stamina or stomach to finish.  Thank God I took this out of the library.  I needed to watch When We Were Kings all over again when I finished, just to wash the taste of The Fight out of my mouth.	2003-07-15
US	52851773	R25DVB33IBGZSY	0385508417	999720718	Skipping Christmas	Books	1	15	21	N	N	Laughingly Bad	I was on my way to thinking this book was hokey but tolerable, much like It's A Wonderful Life, when it hit me: this story is supposed to take place in the present.  I think I read that one of the characters spoke into her cell phone or something, and realized that this goofy, preachy, Reader's Digest-style short story was supposed to be swallowed as if we heard about it occurring to our own neighbors or co-workers now, and not 60 years ago.  At that point, I went from desperately struggling to suspend disbelief to all-out disgust.  The idea that anyone in today's world even knows what his neighbors are doing for the holidays, let alone cares about the degree to which they are observed, is absurd.  No one pays attention to this kind of thing, and certainly reserves their neighborly gossip for more pressing, twenty or 21st century fare like shootings, terrorism, and sex between school-aged kids.  The only community that would be rocked by the scandal of someone skipping Christmas to save money and evade commercialism is that of pre-color Pleasantville (you know, the Toby Maguire movie?).<br />This tale is such a one-trick pony, too.  Every plot device comes in bunches: it's not enough to have the police come to the Kranks' house looking for annual contributions and doing  double-takes upon hearing that they're skipping Christmas- the boy scouts have to do the same thing later that week.  Every character is an unbelievable clich&eacute;, from the uptight neighbor who insists on putting a plastic snowman on the roof of every house on the street, to the silly jealous coworkers who envy the Kranks for taking a Carribean vacation.  The only reason Nora Krank isn't a clich&eacute; is because she is outright crazy: she eagerly goes along with Luther's plan until it backfires due to unforeseen circumstances (to everyone but the Kranks, that is- any reader over the age of 7 will see them a mile away); at that point, she turns around 180 degrees and attacks her husband as if she weren't a willing accomplice.<br />[By the way, \\"The Kranks?\\"  Please.  Why not just call them Mr. and Mrs. Evil McNasty, or something equally transparent?  This is the level of sophistication Grisham is working with here, perhaps to keep things simple enough to get his goofy, subtle-as-a-pie-in-the-face moral message across to an audience he clearly underestimates (or better yet, condescends to).]<br />There's so much more to tell, but I can't even go on describing this book's shortcomings.  If you need to know more than all of these negative reviews are saying, pick the book up from your local bookstore or library, open to any page, and read just two paragraphs.  I have no doubt that you will find enough wrong with this book by following those few simple steps- that's all it takes, folks. Observe Christmas, and skip this book instead.a willing accomplice.  <br />[By the way, \\"The Kranks?\\"  Please.  Why not just call them Mr. and Mrs. Evil McNasty, or something equally transparent?  This is the level of sophistication Grisham is working with here, perhaps to keep things simple enough to get his goofy, subtle-as-a-pie-in-the-face moral message across to an audience he clearly underestimates (or better yet, condescends to).]<br />There's so much more to tell, but I can't even go on describing this book's shortcomings.  If you need to know more than all of these negative reviews are saying, pick the book up from your local bookstore or library, open to any page, and read just two paragraphs.  I have no doubt that you will find enough wrong with this book by following those few simple steps- that's all it takes, folks. Observe Christmas, and skip this book instead.	2003-05-27
US	52851773	RWCCR6O6402SQ	0812550706	401439625	Ender's Game (The Ender Quintet)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Witness the Making of a Leader	This is an excellent work of science fiction that has as much to offer adults as it does teens.  In fact, both audiences will get what they need from this story, as the multiple layers aren't mutually exclusive.  It would surprise me if younger audiences can appreciate some of the social commentary and politics of this story, which make the tale as excellent as do the complex action sequences.<br />And what action there is.  Ender Wiggins, who is exhaustively trained and groomed- and whose very birth was commissioned- to eventually lead the world in battle against alien forces (\\"the buggers\\"), grows up in an anti-gravity combat arena outside Earth, where his every move is watched by the military.  The better he performs, the greater the challenges are created to train him or break him in the process.  Every force in Ender's life is calculated by his handlers to prepare him for battle, beginning with artificial isolation from his family and from other children, to allowing the child's nemeses to confront and bully him, to maintaining computer games for Ender to play, which incorporate real elements from his past into the landscape.<br />This book reads like a video game, through graphic representation of the battle scenes and thorough details of the strategies involved.  Anyone who has ever appreciated military-style games like Stratego, or even tooled around with Army men, will enjoy the formations Ender employs in battle (and Card's vivid descriptions thereof).  There is a large psychological component to Ender's training, and a sociological angle to the book in general, too.  In fact, a well-developed parallel storyline to Ender's training involves his equally-brilliant brother Peter and sister Valentine, and their efforts to marshal populations back on Earth to prepare for war with one another, in case the threat of aliens turns out to be a hoax.<br />Ender is a reluctant leader despite his very great gifts, and the entire training process begs the question: what if a society learned of a brilliant leader in its midst who was but a child; how hard should its leaders push him, versus letting him mature on his own?  For that matter, to what lengths should a nation go to discover the next Napoleon, Washington, or Churchill, before he has the opportunity to develop a non-military interest?  As for Ender, his fate hangs in the balance until the story's end, in a twist that remarkably allows him to skirt the issue of having to commit to one of his dueling natures: extreme empathy for others or utter ruthlessness in battle.at if a society learned of a brilliant leader in its midst who was but a child; how hard should its leaders push him, versus letting him mature on his own?  For that matter, to what lengths should a nation go to discover the next Napoleon, Washington, or Churchill, before he has the opportunity to develop a non-military interest?  As for Ender, his fate hangs in the balance until the story's end, in a twist that remarkably allows him to skirt the issue of having to commit to one of his dueling natures: extreme empathy for others or utter ruthlessness in battle.	2003-05-27
US	52851773	R2M59Y72H2X4C1	037550883X	564633047	I May Be Wrong but I Doubt It	Books	2	5	11	N	N	OK book, but, where's the controversy?	Charles Barkley is a riot, and I think he has a lot of good ideas that, once polished, will make him a fine politician someday, in the event he feels like heading in that direction. Furthermore, I think he would make a great Republican candidate, which the country needs more of from the black community. Barkley toys with Right side in \\"I May Be Wrong...,\\" pretty much because, looking around the spot where he grew up (when he's back in town), he can't help but notice that all those years of Democrat promises and vows to shape things up in urban communities haven't changed much of anything.<br />Barkley is a gracious lover of the game of basketball, too, and pays clear and respectful homage to his forefathers. He mentions how a lot of the up-and-comers don't have the respect for their elders that they need to succeed in sports, and in life. Barkley clearly paid attention to guys like Moses Malone and Dr. J., recognizing that they had a lot of wisdom to impart to a young guy, on and off the court. Barkley comments on some of today's players, both young and old, but does so (for the most part) with courtesy and without finger-pointing. He is adult enough not to slam Scottie Pippen, despite the fact that Pippen has stabbed Barkley and others in the back.<br />His thoughts on race relations in this country are all over the map, and register more misses than hits. Barkley is interested in the subject and phenomenon of race, but hasn't honed his arguments or feelings to laser-like (or even shotgun-like) accuracy. He complains that black actors are often given non-mainstream roles such as pimps and whores in Hollywood, even though those roles are the customary \\"non-traditional\\" ones that whites win Oscars with (Elizabeth Shue in \\"Leaving Las Vegas,\\" for instance). He blames a lot of ills on the rich in this country, without any accountability on the part of the poor, like when he treats credit card companies as part of a conspiracy to trap the lower classes in a financial hole they can't climb out of. Barkley pontificates about double standards between black and white athletes and celebrities, and yet conspicuously omits from the debate the single greatest example of an athlete getting away with murder in this country's history (O.J., of course).<br />But most importantly, and the worst part of this book, is that there is nothing outrageous about it whatsoever. Despite its being pitched as a no-holds-barred, tell it like it is missive and social commentary (including in the book's prologue), there is nothing said that's more controversial than that Michael Jordan is a cheapskate. All in all, this is a nice autobiographical sketch of Sir Charles that doesn't really excite, and certainly doesn't deliver on its hinted theme of \\"I told you so.\\"hole they can't climb out of. Barkley pontificates about double standards between black and white athletes and celebrities, and yet conspicuously omits from the debate the single greatest example of an athlete getting away with murder in this country's history (O.J., of course). <br />But most importantly, and the worst part of this book, is that there is nothing outrageous about it whatsoever. Despite its being pitched as a no-holds-barred, tell it like it is missive and social commentary (including in the book's prologue), there is nothing said that's more controversial than that Michael Jordan is a cheapskate. All in all, this is a nice autobiographical sketch of Sir Charles that doesn't really excite, and certainly doesn't deliver on its hinted theme of \\"I told you so.\\"	2003-05-27
US	52851773	R2O7TX3KXH407K	0316781460	960898638	Live from New York: An Uncensored History of Saturday Night Live	Books	3	4	5	N	N	For Better or Worse, In Their Own Words	Rather than compiling a linear, cohesive history of SNL from the words of the actors, writers, and guests who lived and created it, the authors of Live From New York went one step fewer and offer what amounts to a digest of loosely categorized interviews.  Kudos to Shales and  Miller for getting so much input for the project; the only SNL notables whose names I didn't see as contributors were Eddie Murphy and Dennis Miller.  Everyone else is there, in varying degrees of self-adulation and delusion as to the significance their stint with the show had vis-&agrave;-vis its history.<br />The great thing about the interviews is that the book's whole is greater than the sum of its parts: everything that was remembered by only a handful of people would otherwise be lost to the ages if the book tried to capture SNL's story from an objective, 10, 000 foot view.  What is lost in consistency is gained in detail, not to mention cattiness (there is an awful lot of dirt dished here).  However, recognize that a lot of objectivity is lost by the fact that there is no omniscient narrator here, and the only checks and balances are personalities pitted against one another.<br />This book is likely to do two things to the reader:  One, make him lose respect for many celebrities whose work he formerly enjoyed, once the extent of their egos is realized.  Everyone knows that Chevy Chase is a petulant, borderline-talent egomaniac, but did you know that equally loathsome are Harry Shearer , Nora Dunn, and Jan Hooks?  Al Franken is a scheming, petty little cutthroat.  Jon Lovitz has no sense of humor about himself, and is his own biggest fan.  Chris Rock blames everyone but himself for his lack of success on the show. Victoria Jackson had rocks in her head.  Lorne Michaels is a heartless snob with loads more creative vision than human emotion or care for his fellow man.  One of the few personalities who seems really to have been as decent a person as he was a comic talent was Dan Aykroyd... it's just too bad that a consistent string of  bombs like Blues Brothers 2000 have shattered all that credibility and respect.<br />The second effect this book will have is to surprise the reader to learn how much work goes into all of the skits, particularly the bad ones.  Bill Murray describes in great detail a Nick the Lounge Singer skit that was resurrected for the opener to the 25th anniversary special, explaining how a group of the 70s greats got together at Paul Schaeffer's  place in New York for a week, writing, rehearsing, and having a blast putting together a masterpiece.  I saw the skit a few weeks after I read this book and couldn't believe how painful it was to watch.  Genius is certainly in the eyes of the creator, if not beholder.just too bad that a consistent string of  bombs like Blues Brothers 2000 have shattered all that credibility and respect.<br />The second effect this book will have is to surprise the reader to learn how much work goes into all of the skits, particularly the bad ones.  Bill Murray describes in great detail a Nick the Lounge Singer skit that was resurrected for the opener to the 25th anniversary special, explaining how a group of the 70s greats got together at Paul Schaeffer's  place in New York for a week, writing, rehearsing, and having a blast putting together a masterpiece.  I saw the skit a few weeks after I read this book and couldn't believe how painful it was to watch.  Genius is certainly in the eyes of the creator, if not beholder.	2003-05-27
US	52851773	R1B02RISZMF40J	1573227331	602052020	About a Boy	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Quirky Riot	Nick Hornby has a way of making self-centered characters likeable and sympathetic.  Maybe that is because his characters' flaws are venial ones, rarely worse than any of our own (or if so, not by much).  Or because they possess so many qualities we recognize in ourselves, yet without embodying stereotypes or reaching the level of parody.  Main character Will, a shiftless, self-centered 36-year-old who can afford not to work  due to his father's Christmas song royalties, somehow manages to have a reasonable-sized ego and a scintilla of caring for others. Marcus, the twelve-year-old side-project Will unwittingly adopts, is a bundle of pre-teen cluelessness and obliviousness to his surroundings, yet without any of the insecurity that usually goes with it.  Moreover, he has no present-day cultural awareness whatsoever, and instead is a Joni Mitchell-loving, off-key-singing chip off the block of his hippie mom, Fiona.  Fiona, for her part, is at the same time new-agey and a depressive; is quixotically  naïve, yet has a practical side and is vigilant with Marcus.<br />The three interact when Will poses as a single dad to meet single moms.  The support group was the latest in a string of schemes of Will's to meet women at a time when others in his age group are legitimately having kids of their own.  Will's exploits somehow are more adventurous and clever than sleazy, and seem to stem more from trying to escape boredom than they do an effort to deceive anyone.  In fact, the single-mom escapade came about after meeting and getting dumped by a single mom he'd met under more conventional circumstances.<br />About a Boy is charming and witty, and Will and Marcus' relationship is cute in an odd way.  Will uses Marcus as a charity project, to feel good about himself while bringing the awkward kid into the twentieth century.  Marcus seems to have upper hand, though, and is perceptive enough to recognize Will's usefulness to him, and persistent enough not to let him get away.  Fiona is lost in her own world of recovery from a suicide attempt, yet has enough wherewithal to question why a man in his mid-thirties is hanging around with a pre-teen boy.  Eventually, all parties learn to coexist and to procure what they need from one another, yet still get on with their own lives.<br />A cute story that is unpredictable, even once you have caught on to its sharp dialog and unconventional story line.  All the characters have something to learn from one another, and the reader is better for the knowledge.ona is lost in her own world of recovery from a suicide attempt, yet has enough wherewithal to question why a man in his mid-thirties is hanging around with a pre-teen boy.  Eventually, all parties learn to coexist and to procure what they need from one another, yet still get on with their own lives.  <br />A cute story that is unpredictable, even once you have caught on to its sharp dialog and unconventional story line.  All the characters have something to learn from one another, and the reader is better for the knowledge.	2003-05-20
US	52851773	R8AHF3X6MKSQY	0385333781	900157828	Player Piano: A Novel	Books	3	5	10	N	N	A Too-Successful Revolution	Player Piano is the story of an unlikely uprising against an over-industrialized society, which proved to be too successful and reminds the reader to &quot;be careful what you wish for.&quot;  Doctor Paul Proteus, manager of the Ilium Works plant responsible for the industrial output and energy production of Ilium, New York and the surrounding area, sought to escape his predestined vocational life.  One of the people he encounters in this quest summarized nicely the disenchantment Proteus and his cohorts felt with technology, and the trail of obsolete men left behind in its wake.<br />&quot;The machines are to practically everybody what the white men were to the Indians.  People are finding that, because of the way the machines are changing the world, more and more of their old values don't apply any more.  People have no choice but to become second-rate machines themselves, or wards of the machines.&quot;<br />Proteus' rebellion against his industrialized world starts quietly enough, with the acquisition of a farm and the conscious sabotage of a promotion he deserved.  However, he eventually crosses paths with radicals who saw fit to not only stem the tides of mass-production, but to destroy all of the machines in the process.<br />Interesting enough story-line, right?  Yes, but the story's potential is better than its execution.  Many great ideas are left unpolished.  Besides Dr. Proteus, there are no sympathetic characters in this tale, which made it difficult to root for the revolution's failure or success.  Plus, things spiraled so badly out of control that you don't even know if success was achieved by anyone's measure.  This book was one giant crescendo, and the actual revolution occurs in about five pages at the end, hastily described and leaving way too much to the imagination.  There were many characters introduced independently who eventually met at the end- not in a logical way that sewed everything together, but in a chaotic assembly of random people (e.g., the Shah of Bratpuhr- what was that guy's purpose other than comedic relief?).e.g., the Shah of Bratpuhr- what was that guy's purpose other than comedic relief?).	2003-05-20
US	52851773	R1ABAPHZPV8Q5V	0805062971	311054036	Fight Club: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Like An Uppercut, Quick and Intense	This is the only book I've read that moved faster, and that left more to the imagination, than its movie.  The two were extremely alike, but the movie used its special effects and cool visuals to flesh out the streamlined storyline of the print version.  Also, the movie was much more violent, since the story never goes into too much detail about anything, leaving the gory minutiae for the wide screen.  Fight Club's (the book) dialog was quick-moving, the scenes were tightly described and without extraneous detail, and rarely was there inner-dialog that lasted longer than a few paragraphs.  The whole experience was an adrenaline rush akin to the by-now familiar basement brawls that made Fight Club more of a phenomenon than a book and a movie.  This is an excellent joyride of a read for the beach or a bus trip: an action-packed adventure that has a big payoff without requiring any cerebral cortex of the reader.<br />What a great story line, too.  A covert fight club, created by yuppies disenchanted with their sterilized existence and in need of testosterone, catches steam and spirals into madness, threatening world domination before it is through.  Fight Club has enough cool and subversive elements to read like an primer in underground education, without the didacticism.  Very cool is the story of multiple personalities told in the first person.  My only criticism about the book (and the movie) is that the plot was so big and brazen that it could have fueled two stories in this age of sparse ideas: one about the fight club itself, and another about the multiple-personalities of the narrator-slash-Tyler Durden.  Better to have two excellent stories to tell than none, I suppose.	2003-05-20
US	52851773	R3BEOE6UT6R9HH	0688033474	336137961	The Wolfen	Books	2	6	13	N	N	Great Research Can't Save This Tired Werewolf Tale	The Wolfen is a great showcase for the lycanthropy research Whitley Strieber seems to have done for this story, which in parts reads like an account of werewolf history, demographics and behavioral patterns. In fact, Strieber apparently has so much respect for the society of werewolves that he imparts to creatures greater intelligence and cultural richness than I have seen in any other horror story. An interesting and previously unseen (for me, anyway) aspect of this story is its narrative from the Wolfen's perspective.<br />It's too bad that this dedication to and admiration for his subject couldn't save such a lame story, though. The dialog between all of the characters is dull and contrived, and there are a lot of relationship twists that get introduced and never resolved. For instance the crush that older, cranky detective George Wilson has for Becky Neff is mildly interesting, largely unbelievable (a 20 year age difference, a surface level disdain for one another), and completely useless. So is the confusion Becky feels for her husband Dick, who is mired in a police investigation for being on the take in order to fund his dad's nursing home bills. There are feuds and mistrust among the officers, medical examiner, and researchers as well, that seem to serve no other purpose than to create strife, and to make Becky and George's seem like mavericks in their pursuit of the werewolves that only they believe in (with a minimum of proof, I might add).<br />To swallow the premise of this story, you pretty much need to believe that werewolves have been among us forever, including in our metropolitan areas, yet are intelligent enough to avoid human detection despite eating the weak among us (hobos, drunks, the blind, etc.). In fact, the Wolfen of the story would still be undiscovered were it not for an uncharacteristic errant attack on two police officers at the beginning of the story, and a series of absurd coincidences that eventually lead them into Becky and George's hands. The ending doesn't really solve much, either, and tries to pass off noncommittal as mysteriously vague.hands. The ending doesn't really solve much, either, and tries to pass off noncommittal as mysteriously vague.	2003-05-20
US	52851773	RA1FKVT8BZTBX	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The Best Extraordinarily-Depressing Book Ever	1984 is an amazing cautionary tale of what happens when the government runs amok and squelches the very people it is supposed to represent.  As with any symbolic tale, readers will allow The Party- and its figurehead, Big Brother- to embody whatever agency or institution they deem oppressive, although it should not be lost that the political philosophy of 1984, or \\"INGSOC,\\" is a paraphrase of \\"English Socialism.\\"  Orwell, like Ayn Rand, foresaw the bleakness of a socialism approaching its purest form, and recognized how society becomes much blander and grayer with regulation and equal rationing for everyone.<br />For everyone, that is, except for those in charge, such as the antagonist O'Brien and the Brotherhood.  The Inner Party members purposely created a caste system under the auspices of caring for those who are less fortunate or intelligent, while in reality systematically ensuring that the rich and powerful stayed that way, without threat of the lower classes revolting.  The Inner Party learned from history that those in power rarely stay that way, and eventually get knocked off their pedestal by the leaner, hungrier classes below them.  By creating artificial scenarios of constant war, Thought Police, and imprisoning work conditions that held no promise of improving societal conditions, the Outer Party members and \\"Proles\\" (from proleteriat)  would always remain too tired and intimidated to rail against their surroundings.  The primary aim of modern warfare, for instance, was to use up the products of the machine without raising the general standard of living.<br />Politics aside, 1984 is a compelling action story, and I was surprised at the many racy, sexy, violent, and terrifying scenes therein, all of which kept me spellbound.  Though the future predictions of Big Brother had not materialized by 1984, or (arguably) even now, this story's plot or action sequences are not one bit dated.  Protagonist Winston Smith, and eventually his love interest Julia, is involved in a true rage against the machine that immediately engages the reader and summons both interest and sympathy.  Surprises abound, and I had no idea until the story's end as to whether Smith would conquer the system, or end up being convinced that 2 +2 = 5.<br />There are far too many fascinating aspects of this book to list.  For one, the concept of memory eradication, and whether or not something really did happen if there is no proof to be found of its occurrence.  Oceania, homeland to Winston Smith, was alternately at war with either Eastasia or Eurasia, and as soon as the enemy changed, any proof of having battled the other was immediately banished.  In fact, Winston worked in the Ministry of Truth, where he and his coworkers spent their days erasing (e.g., burning papers or rewriting newspaper columns for the archives) any proof of events whose existence contravened the present philosophy- this way, (a rewritten) history would show that Big Brother never got his facts or predictions wrong.<br />The book's language is amazing- clearly Orwell envisioned not only an entire dictionary's worth of new words, but a revolutionary new approach to speech as a device to control the thoughts of the speaker.  The elimination of words which hold secondary meanings, and/or which convey independent thought, engenders a world in which people are incapable of- or not aware of the possibility of- treasonous thoughts (\\"thoughtcrimes\\"), let alone acts.  \\"Doublethink\\" is the act of consciously denying reality, and making oneself believe wholeheartedly Big Brother's fictions.involved in a true rage against the machine that immediately engages the reader and summons both interest and sympathy.  Surprises abound, and I had no idea until the story's end as to whether Smith would conquer the system, or end up being convinced that 2 +2 = 5.<br />There are far too many fascinating aspects of this book to list.  For one, the concept of memory eradication, and whether or not something really did happen if there is no proof to be found of its occurrence.  Oceania, homeland to Winston Smith, was alternately at war with either Eastasia or Eurasia, and as soon as the enemy changed, any proof of having battled the other was immediately banished.  In fact, Winston worked in the Ministry of Truth, where he and his coworkers spent their days erasing (e.g., burning papers or rewriting newspaper columns for the archives) any proof of events whose existence contravened the present philosophy- this way, (a rewritten) history would show that Big Brother never got his facts or predictions wrong.<br />The book's language is amazing- clearly Orwell envisioned not only an entire dictionary's worth of new words, but a revolutionary new approach to speech as a device to control the thoughts of the speaker.  The elimination of words which hold secondary meanings, and/or which convey independent thought, engenders a world in which people are incapable of- or not aware of the possibility of- treasonous thoughts (\\"thoughtcrimes\\"), let alone acts.  \\"Doublethink\\" is the act of consciously denying reality, and making oneself believe wholeheartedly Big Brother's fictions.	2003-05-20
US	52851773	R68EZO9R5GWKA	0375501916	637630453	Faith of My Fathers	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Proud Account of An Incredible Lineage	John McCain comes from a long line of strong military men who possess incredible love of country, integrity, and above all, a steadfast sense of honor.  As I read the accounts of true honor and loyalty in this book, I was stuck by how, by comparison, we nowadays constantly accept cheap imitations in their place.  For instance, newspapers are littered with stories of useless politicians feigning heroism with meaningless proposals and hollow gestures, as well as accounts of protestors and activists whose greatest achievements are self-aggrandizement and self-promotion.  These things are worlds apart from, and leagues below, those the lessons taught in Faith of My Fathers.<br />For instance, the last third of the story relates in excruciating detail McCain's five-plus years as a POW in the Vietnam war.  His travails at the hands of his captors were horrifying, yet McCain humbly recounts how he never lost hope, never doubted his mission or his country's ability to rescue him, and kept secret information from his enemies despite horrendous torture.  McCain had the integrity to refuse special treatment at the hands of the Vietnamese, just as he wouldn't allow his family's distinguished reputation to afford him privileges in the military, or anywhere else in his life.  McCain also incredibly downplays his own captivity as he pays respect to that handful of POWs who had it worse than him, including those who perished before betraying the Marine Corps Code of Honor.<br />Another amazing example is of the loyalty McCain's father, a submarine commander, instilled in his men, manifested by a mission patrolling the waters between Midway and Nagasaki, for which Jack McCain received a Silver Star.  The submarine \\"The Gunnel,\\" in order to evade Japanese destroyers (and their torpedoes and depth charges) had to spend an inordinate amount of time underwater without surfacing, to the point where the air became very difficult to breathe, and McCain had to cut the power and lights to conserve them while waiting for the moment to surface.  McCain had to calm down, reassure, and commiserate with a large group of men who were scared out of their minds, were praying, and in some cases had to be strapped down.  He shared their fate, yet had to stay strong and confidently lead them through circumstances that assuredly would get worse before they got better.  If not for faith, the McCain and crew would not have had anything to lead them to their ultimate safety.<br />Faith of My Fathers, in addition to instructional in the ways of honor, is quite funny in parts.  McCain was a wise-ass in grade school and the military academy, giving hope for those smart-alecky underachievers with good hearts among us.  The anecdotes from Annapolis and a stint at the dry and boring town of Meridian, Mississippi, are among the book's most humorous.  His grandfather was a crusty old salt with a foul mouth who nevertheless commanded the attention and respect of hundreds of men as if he were their father.<br />My criticisms of this book are few:  one is that this is surely not a tale of revenge; in fact, you are hard pressed to find even a bad word about McCain's captors, which struck me as odd.  To not wish horrendous things upon the people who tortured and imprisoned you for over five years of your life is aberrant, in my opinion.  Yet McCain kind of chalks his experience up to the realities of war, and seems not to hold anything against the Vietnamese captors.  I kind of wanted to hear, perhaps as a venting mechanism, of the special things McCain would have in store for his captors if he ever got his hands on them.  The other comment I have is that the prose of this book struck me as a little fancy for a military story.  There are a lot of million dollar words and turns of phrase that sound like an English PhD dissertation.  The subject matter at hand was so raw that it would ring even more true if the narration were a little earthier.conserve them while waiting for the moment to surface.  McCain had to calm down, reassure, and commiserate with a large group of men who were scared out of their minds, were praying, and in some cases had to be strapped down.  He shared their fate, yet had to stay strong and confidently lead them through circumstances that assuredly would get worse before they got better.  If not for faith, the McCain and crew would not have had anything to lead them to their ultimate safety. <br />Faith of My Fathers, in addition to instructional in the ways of honor, is quite funny in parts.  McCain was a wise-ass in grade school and the military academy, giving hope for those smart-alecky underachievers with good hearts among us.  The anecdotes from Annapolis and a stint at the dry and boring town of Meridian, Mississippi, are among the book's most humorous.  His grandfather was a crusty old salt with a foul mouth who nevertheless commanded the attention and respect of hundreds of men as if he were their father.<br />My criticisms of this book are few:  one is that this is surely not a tale of revenge; in fact, you are hard pressed to find even a bad word about McCain's captors, which struck me as odd.  To not wish horrendous things upon the people who tortured and imprisoned you for over five years of your life is aberrant, in my opinion.  Yet McCain kind of chalks his experience up to the realities of war, and seems not to hold anything against the Vietnamese captors.  I kind of wanted to hear, perhaps as a venting mechanism, of the special things McCain would have in store for his captors if he ever got his hands on them.  The other comment I have is that the prose of this book struck me as a little fancy for a military story.  There are a lot of million dollar words and turns of phrase that sound like an English PhD dissertation.  The subject matter at hand was so raw that it would ring even more true if the narration were a little earthier.	2003-05-20
US	52851773	R10HSUY8SCPZ8D	1573225517	138260184	High Fidelity	Books	4	1	1	N	N	As Hip as a Cool Soundtrack	This book was hilarious, with tight, sharp dialogue between characters that everyone has met (unless you live under a rock and have never ventured into a quirky record (or comics, videos, cards, hobby, etc.) store).  The interplay between Barry (the jaded know-it-all), Dick (the caring introvert) and painfully over-analytical Rob, is priceless.  Hi Fidelity reads like an afternoon spent hanging out in a record store, shooting the breeze and ragging on one another, all to a cool soundtrack.<br />Everything important to Rob gets reduced to a spot on a series of ever-changing lists, many of which appear in the book (and even dictate its flow in parts).  He waxes nerdily philosophical about his love life, just as the rest of us do, except he does it according to a priority list he keeps close to his heart.  The story in part is about his efforts to revisit women on his list of girlfriends, to see what insight he gleans about himself in the process of recalling what they found attractive about him back in the day.  Interesting plot, great execution.<br />The music in Hi Fidelity is spot-on, and it's clear that Hornby knows what he is talking about.  Who among us doesn't know a guy or two that is a little too much into music, to the point where he can't stop talking about it, and chooses his friends and love interests more or less according to the films and albums they are interested in?  Hi Fidelity- joyfully, hysterically- is a story about one of those guys.<br />If you saw this movie first, as I did, you will not be able to read the dialogue without visualizing John Cusack and Jack Black- the film was so great and so true to the book, and the actors so-well cast.  Whether that's a good thing or bad, you be the judge; if you liked one, you'll love the other.	2003-05-20
US	52851773	R39INUF44RL42A	0684810026	210687842	Bad Guys: America's Most Wanted in Their Own Words	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Disjointed and Without Moral Compass	I realize that this collection of interviews wasn't designed as a whole that transcends the sum of its parts; however, more guidance of any kind was needed here.  I'm not asking for a beautiful puzzle whose pieces fit together perfectly, but don't just give me a pile of pieces dumped on the floor carelessly.  There was no flow to Bad Guys, and even the chapters don't do much to sort things out- everything is sort of clumped together under the heading of \\"CRIME,\\" which is too huge a theme not to be subdivided.  Creatively, very little was required of this author, and he could have spiced up what little original writing he actually added to this compilation.<br />Some of the tales are interesting, but the book plays like a series of quotes instead of a tapestry that tells something (incidentally, many of the quotes are quite funny or insightful).  It was hard to sort out who was saying what, with almost no details provided about the speakers, who blended in seamlessly in absence of distinguishing characteristics.  Not to mention that most of these career criminals had no shortage of offenses to talk about, to the point where there was no use in parsing out their stories into chapters organized by crime.  As a result, you gain no more insight into the psychological profile of the murderer than you do of the card sharks.<br />It is galling how the (criminal) narrators feel they are resigned to their fates, and powerless to stop their lives of crime.  Most often than not, it was boredom that drove them to their crimes.  There is not a lot of enablement here, which is nice, but nor is there any penitence.  There is a lot of self-righteousness on the part of the criminals, many of whom immersed themselves in their seedy worlds because it was easier than securing a lower-paying real job.  Many spoiled rich kids got involved in crime to fuel drug habits, and because they weren't used to having to work for things.  Many criminals felt that rich folks had it coming when they got robbed- as if possessing money through hard work were more of a crime than beating people to acquire financial gain.  Many felt that society in general deserved to get plundered because the system was so vulnerable, and made it so easy for them to get away with their despicable acts.<br />In general, the only sorrow expressed was precisely due to the fact that these guys and gals got caught and are being interviewed from prison- instead of due to any moral clarity- and it is quite maddening to read.got robbed- as if possessing money through hard work were more of a crime than beating people to acquire financial gain.  Many felt that society in general deserved to get plundered because the system was so vulnerable, and made it so easy for them to get away with their despicable acts.<br />In general, the only sorrow expressed was precisely due to the fact that these guys and gals got caught and are being interviewed from prison- instead of due to any moral clarity- and it is quite maddening to read.	2002-09-25
US	52851773	R3PIAY8WT0EI96	0312134916	136216358	Fall River Dreams: A Team's Quest for Glory, A Town's Search for Its Soul	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Smaller Version of &quot;Season on the Brink&quot;	This a very capable high school version of John Feinstein's &quot;Season on the Brink,&quot; except in Fall River Dreams you dislike the players more intensely than the coach.  Readers bear witness to longtime Durfee High School coach Skip Karam losing more and more control over his players as each generation of kids has less integrity, work ethic, and respect for elders than the one before it.  High school star Chris Herren was a prima donna whose laziness and insouciance not only prevented him from reaching his fullest potential, but undermined the efforts of the entire coaching staff and supporters, and generally created an atmosphere of discomfort and tension.  It's a weird lesson indeed when brash, obnoxious older brother Mike Herren (the team star and league villain from years past) gave pep talks in the locker room when the squad lost.<br />The book's strength is in its description of the blue collar town of Fall River, both physically and of its history.  The decline of the manufacturing industry and towns' many mills cast a palpable gloom over the region.  Even though readers from Massachusetts will undoubtedly get greater pleasure from the regional nature of this tale, there are Fall Rivers all over this country- wherever once booming manufacturing hotbeds succumbed to an economic and cultural shift, leaving confused and embittered workers in their wake.  Readers will no doubt find parallels wherever they're from.  High school basketball was this town's saving grace, and one of its few sources of pride, and Reynolds' writing style illustrated why sports truly matter in places like Fall River.<br />Comeuppance prevails, and there is a payoff for readers routing against Herren's team, particularly after reading comparisons between the Herren brothers and the diligent, strong-but-silent-type Curley brothers from Duxbury.  Fall River Dream's ending kind of fizzles, and earns a mere fraction of space and detail than the rest of the book got; however, it was kind of fitting in view of the dud that Herren proved to ultimately be.  Indeed, his star shone most brightly in high school, and slowly burned to a cinder afterwards.kind of fitting in view of the dud that Herren proved to ultimately be.  Indeed, his star shone most brightly in high school, and slowly burned to a cinder afterwards.	2002-09-25
US	52851773	RDFV8N5LG6MIH	0394747232	587113700	My Father Bleeds History	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Outstanding in Concept and Execution	Maus could have garnered four stars alone for its brilliant concept: chronicling the horrors of the Holocaust via a symbolic cartoon with animals as the protagonists and antagonists.  However, the story is so deftly told, and is so much more (ironically) human in the way it weaves the writer's life into his father's narrative, that it transcends works defined as merely good.  The grim drawings and non-human nature of the characters in some ways muffles the barbarism of Nazi Germany, and in other ways intensifies it.  Scary indeed is the fairy tale in which the subjects' carefree, halcyon lives are turned upside down in a ever-worsening parade of appalling acts.<br />The book's pace is perfect, and gives you insight into the way small denials of the Jews' freedoms, and tiny restrictions upon their liberties, gave rise to increasingly graver orders.  You witness the hearty resiliency of the Jews as they resign their Fate to each event that befalls them, only to see the picture get bleaker with each day.  The author's father Vladek (and story's main character) loses his first born and an endless succession of jobs and friends, and is ultimately separated from his wife (Anja) as the Jews as herded up and marched away from their homes.  He contracts disease and is subjected to abominable physical labor and deprivation of food, yet somehow presses on and refuses to be defeated.  Most fascinating about this book is the way Vladek continually escapes certain doom- he instantly acquires and/or fakes job skills that are needed by the Germans; he forges the right alliances with non-Jews; he selects the right hiding spots and patiently outwits his captors.  You are needless to say rooting for him the whole time.<br />The book has a little of everything: it is funny in parts, particularly in scenes when the author suffers his Dad's eccentricities and cheapness in order to glean some narrative along the way.  It is heartbreakingly tragic throughout- for instance, there is a fascinating \\"comic within a comic\\" that mysteriously alludes to the Spiegleman's descent into depression and rage; and Vladek is miraculously reunited with his wife after the Holocaust, only to lose her to suicide.  It is an amazing commentary in that an animal tale perfectly illustrates what it meant to be Jewish during the 30s and 40s- and what it means to be human now.scinating \\"comic within a comic\\" that mysteriously alludes to the Spiegleman's descent into depression and rage; and Vladek is miraculously reunited with his wife after the Holocaust, only to lose her to suicide.  It is an amazing commentary in that an animal tale perfectly illustrates what it meant to be Jewish during the 30s and 40s- and what it means to be human now.	2002-09-25
US	52851773	R1G02KZVPXVWQ1	0679406417	587113700	The Complete Maus	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Maus (II)- Nearly As Good As the Original	Although still brilliant, it is only natural that this second installation would lose the flair and novelty of the original Maus.  I actually would have preferred that Spiegleman wrote this after his father's death (which is documented only in the book's final page: a tombstone in the last panel), since he was the tale's central character, and since we're so painfully aware throughout of his afflictions.  Vladek's health has gotten worse since Maus I, and his physical travails provide an interesting subtext to the story.<br /><br />That said, the Maus II is still excellent, and is comfortable in that the characters and style by now are familiar (Mala and Speigleman's wife also play more prominently here than in Maus I).  Maus II picks up where Maus I left off, and chronicles the depravity of the concentration camps.  It is a stark contrast to version one's descent from family contentment and happiness into Hell- here, there is salvation after unspeakable horror, as Vladek is freed, and later reunited with his wife.  Sadly, his plight is never too far behind him, as life outside the concentration camp is rife with its own set of problems, and a perfect adjustment to a free life is never truly made.  As Maus I was, this story is remarkable in its depiction of the human condition- warts (and evil characters, family squabbling, spousal discord) and all.	2002-09-25
US	52851773	RG6JCNH0244KD	0895261901	148709607	Bias: A CBS Insider Exposes How the Media Distort the News	Books	2	7	12	N	N	Some Good Ideas Amidst A Retaliatory Missive	Bernard Goldberg has some decent observations in this book, and offers some sound theories about why the media has a left-handed slant.  He is pretty fair, too, acknowledging that media giants like Peter Jennings, Tom Brokaw, and Dan Rather aren't consciously giving the news a liberal flavor, but instead are reporting in the only way they know how to think and communicate.  Goldberg posits that these and other newsmen are such natural leftist thinkers that not only do they see such extremely liberal groups as NOW as centrist and totally reasonable, but they see anything moderate and even-handed as far-right.<br />It's too bad, though, that Goldberg's message gets lost in this book's retaliatory tone.  As courageous as Goldberg was for initially writing an Op-Ed piece about media bias to the WSJ in 1996 (non-anonymously), and for not backing down from his position even in the midst of impending ouster, this book is in reality one long diatribe against Dan Rather.  Goldberg sounds jilted from the beginning to the end of this work, and while I don't doubt the validity of his assertions or evidence (or that he was railroaded by Rather and an over-sensitive employer in 1996), the fact that this is more vengeance than expose is distracting.<br />That said, there are some observations herein that read like a How-To guide for spotting liberal bias.  For instance, reporters always precede a Republican's name with the label &quot;Conservative,&quot; or &quot;Republican,&quot; while never doing the same to Liberals/Democrats, as if it is important only to expose those from the right and to alert the listening audience to be on the lookout.  People such as the homeless and AIDS victims tend to be &quot;prettified&quot; by the news, and have their negative qualities and irresponsible behaviors ignored or minimized, in an effort to make them more sympathetic.  Republican and right-spectrum topics (like the coverage of Steve Forbes' flat tax plan, which prompted the initial Goldberg editorial in 1996), when covered at all, are done so in an unflattering way, and are oftentimes accompanied by snide commentary by smarmy newscasters.  White males, the tobacco industry, and the Catholic church continue to be about the only fair game for nonobjective attack and criticism without fair representation.<br />There were some inconsistencies that should have been cleared up, perhaps if Goldberg had allowed himself more time to calm down about the mosquito in his ear named Dan Rather.  For instance, Goldberg reports that the newsrooms take great pains to make sure there is minority representation in all stories, even when it doesn't seem logical (e.g., to garner black opinion about local matters in all white towns, or to search high and low to find minorities in mostly-white professions); however, later on Goldberg mentions that blacks and other minorities don't tend to watch news programs with the regularity that whites do, and therefore, the news stations don't kowtow to non-whites in their coverage.  Goldberg should have tried harder to forget the injustice dealt to him by CBS, and instead concentrated more on his tale's consistency- he was on the right track, but never fully executed.dberg editorial in 1996), when covered at all, are done so in an unflattering way, and are oftentimes accompanied by snide commentary by smarmy newscasters.  White males, the tobacco industry, and the Catholic church continue to be about the only fair game for nonobjective attack and criticism without fair representation.<br />There were some inconsistencies that should have been cleared up, perhaps if Goldberg had allowed himself more time to calm down about the mosquito in his ear named Dan Rather.  For instance, Goldberg reports that the newsrooms take great pains to make sure there is minority representation in all stories, even when it doesn't seem logical (e.g., to garner black opinion about local matters in all white towns, or to search high and low to find minorities in mostly-white professions); however, later on Goldberg mentions that blacks and other minorities don't tend to watch news programs with the regularity that whites do, and therefore, the news stations don't kowtow to non-whites in their coverage.  Goldberg should have tried harder to forget the injustice dealt to him by CBS, and instead concentrated more on his tale's consistency- he was on the right track, but never fully executed.	2002-06-18
US	52851773	R36YV9QIAA9KON	0767908481	223666842	The No Spin Zone: Confrontations with the Powerful and Famous in America	Books	3	14	31	N	N	5 Stars for O'Reilly, Fewer for His Book	Having seen O'Reilly's show, and heard his radio program, only a few times before, this was a great introduction into his world. I respect him for attacking the status quo, for exposing the rampant corruption throughout industry and government (particularly during the Clinton joke of an administration), and for not soft-pedaling his views because of their potential to antagonize. With more folks like Bill O'Reilly around- be it in the media, law enforcement, or politics- there would be more accountability, less waste of our tax dollars, and less hate-mongering of a racial or sexual nature. We all tend to forget how outrageous things are when exposed to them for long enough...and need O'Reillys to shake things up and prevent complacency. Whether or not the inertia towards corruption and enablement has gone too far remains to be seen, but it's nice to know (and see in print) that not everyone is caving in too easily.<br />To my surprise, O'Reilly was more even-handed in his treatment that I'd anticipated. Despite Liberal whining to the contrary, O'Reilly does not have a totally conservative agenda. Liberals have a knee-jerk reaction to anyone that doesn't feel exactly as they do, regardless of the soundness of the logic of others. I am sure that the majority of Liberals posting on this board have not read this book, and/or their reviews reflect their inability to sift through the nuances of the material therein (which, actually, is about as subtle as a pie in the face). Many prominent Liberals have in fact avoided going on O'Reilly's show, including Jesse Jackson, and Hillary Clinton, surely recognizing the risk of exposure as too great, despite the countervailing opportunity to set the record straight (for instance, I gained a lot more respect for Rosie O'Donnell after reading a transcript of her appearance (not in this book)).<br />O'Reilly supports gay rights, for instance, and posts all of his views at the end of the book for the world to see. This was refreshing, since it's more commonplace to keep views ambiguous, should the need to change things, e.g., to suit potential voters, arise (right, Al Gore?). His \\"opposition\\" to the death penalty is specious, however, since he thinks that death is the easy way out for convicted murderers, and would rather consign them to a lifetime of hard labor. Good point, and I, too, and one of those who dislike the death penalty primarily for its leniency (torture of murdering criminals would be my preferred route).<br />I didn't give the No-Spin Zone more than three stars because I thought it was thrown together to capitalize on O'Reilly's favorable ratings, and that he could have done a lot better. It pretty much consists of patched-together show excerpts with (sometimes a minimum of) commentary. There's a lot of filler here, and waiting longer for this book's release necessarily meant that events such as September 11th could have been included. Plus, the book oftentimes speaks of \\"Spin\\" like a 12-step program or cult religion, and wasn't so much creepy as it was goofy and off-putting., since it's more commonplace to keep views ambiguous, should the need to change things, e.g., to suit potential voters, arise (right, Al Gore?). His \\"opposition\\" to the death penalty is specious, however, since he thinks that death is the easy way out for convicted murderers, and would rather consign them to a lifetime of hard labor. Good point, and I, too, and one of those who dislike the death penalty primarily for its leniency (torture of murdering criminals would be my preferred route). <br />I didn't give the No-Spin Zone more than three stars because I thought it was thrown together to capitalize on O'Reilly's favorable ratings, and that he could have done a lot better. It pretty much consists of patched-together show excerpts with (sometimes a minimum of) commentary. There's a lot of filler here, and waiting longer for this book's release necessarily meant that events such as September 11th could have been included. Plus, the book oftentimes speaks of \\"Spin\\" like a 12-step program or cult religion, and wasn't so much creepy as it was goofy and off-putting.	2002-06-18
US	52851773	R222BR0QP6IY4T	0316769487	862964341	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	4	17	20	N	N	Cynical Beauty	Like it or not, there is a little Holden Caufield in all of us.  Who hasn't been disgusted with his present situation at one time or another, with the same drab setting and boring people, the same tedious authority figures, the seemingly inescapable occupational path laid out in front of him?  Caufield is our phony-exposing id, getting kicked out of school, running away from convention, and telling anyone in his path exactly like it is.  I, for one, feel like there's as many frauds around now as there were in Caufield's world (New York's boarding school establishment in the 1950's)- just pick up any paper- and would love to at times similarly pack up and escape them all.<br />Caufield's heart is in the right place throughout this tale of, essentially, a young man's mild descent into madness (I say mild because it is accompanied by none of the gun-wielding trauma we have come to associate with disillusionment among  today's post-Columbine teens).  He says goodbye to a professor at the boarding school he's tossed from; he defends an old girlfriend's honor from his cad roommate; he fondly and regretfully reminisces about his dead younger brother; and he dotes on his sister Phoebe throughout, even entering his parents' house under the cover of darkness (and in a drunken stupor) to check in on her while she slept.  When he visits her at school and takes her to the park the next day, right at the brink of his collapse and threatening to leave his environment forever, the scene is as touching as it is suspenseful.<br />I would like to have seen more resolution from this story, such as his making contact with his unrequited love, who was never mentioned after Caufield fought his roommate for dating her.  However, I recognize Catcher is more about one errant weekend- albeit a very revealing one- than it is Caufield's life's story.  Plus, the surprise ending merits a mere couple of paragraphs, and the merest of allusions within them, yet exceeds the rest of this book in its power.power.	2002-06-18
US	52851773	RQXD8EKVQAOSL	055327449X	303683311	The Illustrated Man (Grand Master Editions)	Books	5	69	71	N	N	Haunting Stories of Depressing Beauty	Conceptually, The Illustrated Man is brilliant from the get-go, including its novel premise of 18 stories as told through the moving tattoos on a man's body; in addition to weaving intricate webs, the Illustrated Man's body art predicts the future.<br />And, oh, what stories are told.  As a science fiction writer, it is no surprise that the majority of Bradbury's stories have to do with space and the future (heck, all of space was in the future when these stories were written in the early 50s).  Additionally, the majority of the tales are pretty bleak, dealing with dark themes of revenge, futile searches for paradise, and Armageddon.  However, save for their near-universal excellence, thought-provocation, and prescience, the similarities end there.<br />Among them: Mars is colonized by black people who have left Earth's prejudices, and await with apprehension the arrival of a white-piloted rocket ship from their former homeland; another planet's soldiers attack Earth and are surprised at the warm welcome they receive, only to learn that they can be conquered by Earth's lousy diet, sedentary ways, and shallow culture as easily as by the planet's military; an assembly of priests travels to Mars to learn about Martian sins, so as to spread God's word and earn converts of the Red plant; an entire city is built with the concept of vengeance in mind, by its citizens who were to perish before being able to exact that revenge themselves; the authors of classic tales of horror, whose works are banned on Earth, are themselves exiled to Mars and only kept alive by the few remaining copies not burned for censorship.<br />There are a couple of lame ducks herein, but even those are salvaged by the beauty of Bradbury's writing.  His metaphors and descriptive devices flow from the pages and grant a macabre beauty to even the most desolate of landscapes.	2002-02-28
US	52851773	R1VPEY6ME0ALRN	0671769197	449874251	What's Wrong with Sports	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Deliciously Cranky	Being a little too young to remember live broadcasts of Howard Cosell, I read this book in an attempt to gain insight into why this sports figure was so controversial.  Whether you love or hate him, it seems that there are very few people without an opinion about Howard.<br />And rightly so.  The man clearly has a huge ego, and his self-aggrandizement  oozes off every page, often with hollow qualifiers like \\"I don't mean to brag, but...\\"  He claims to be a close friend of nearly everyone.  And he makes weighty accusations and statements in the name of telling it like it is.  One particularly egregious one (though correct, in my opinion), regarding the toll a baseball superstar's gambling scandal took on the late baseball commissioner and good friend of the author- \\"There's little doubt that Pete Rose was a factor in the death of Bart Giamatii.\\"  Ouch.<br />Kudos to Cosell for attacking sacred cows.  It really was refreshing to read someone put athletics' big-mouths and butt-kissers in their places; I just wish I could have seen and heard Cosell do the same live.  Cosell was a champion of a lot of important aspects of sports and sports reporting that are resolved nowadays, unpopular, or foregone conclusions.  For example, Cosell advocated that sports reporting is as important as other news reporting, and demands the same scrutiny and lack of bias.  He was a tough critic of college sports programs and coaches, particularly those which turn a blind eye to the delinquency of their players, and those whose reverence of sports undermines their institutions' dedication to academics.  He was a staunch promoter of minority representation in sports management and ownership.  He believed boxing suffered from a lack of consolidation of leagues, and from the influence of crooks like Don King.  He squawked about the mob's influence in professional sports.<br />I wish Howard was around today to give the world his take on the current state of sports, but- alas- he passed away not long after this book came out (1991).  That this book is so dated is a sad commentary on today's sports scene- everything Howard lamented more than 10 years ago in print (outrageous sports salaries, gambling and numbers in sports, sports figures engaged in criminal pursuits, biased reporting) exists tenfold today.  Heck, Mike Tyson alone is enough to make any sports enthusiast wince and long for the good old days...  [Incidentally, in Howard's words re. the biting one circa 1991, \\"I think [Tyson] needs professional help from persons expert in the field of mental health.\\"]long after this book came out (1991).  That this book is so dated is a sad commentary on today's sports scene- everything Howard lamented more than 10 years ago in print (outrageous sports salaries, gambling and numbers in sports, sports figures engaged in criminal pursuits, biased reporting) exists tenfold today.  Heck, Mike Tyson alone is enough to make any sports enthusiast wince and long for the good old days...  [Incidentally, in Howard's words re. the biting one circa 1991, \\"I think [Tyson] needs professional help from persons expert in the field of mental health.\\"]	2002-02-28
US	52851773	R21B1DYO3FLXQ7	0345330145	428889418	Puppet Masters	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Classic Heinlein	This is a fabulous science fiction tale with all the classic Heinlein elements: a quick-witted, lusty, smart-alecky protagonist; a luscious babe love interest; a wildly fantastic plot that that is well crafted enough to almost seem possible; and plenty of action.  Parasites capable of inhabiting humans' minds and bodies threaten to take over the world unless a father, son, and wife team can stop them.  In turn, all are inhabited by the \\"slugs.\\"<br />In addition to being a first-rate science fiction work, this is a coming of age story of sorts, since the hero works for a secret service agency run by his cranky old man.  It is also a realistic love story between \\"Sam\\" and his wife \\"Mary\\" that has its share of turmoil, especially as the two attempt to delve into Mary's forgotten past.<br />Readers will have trouble believing this story was written more than fifty years ago- the technology and science described are that good, and the plot is that well-paced and tight.  The Puppet Masters holds up to any contemporary science fiction, and may even exceed today's offerings because of its originality.  Furthermore, this tale's paranoid theme of \\"trust no one\\" (i.e., because he or she could be inhabited by a parasite), while written originally under the specter of the cold war, is as timely as ever in view of the recent terrorist attacks.  This country ought to mobilize to detect the villains among us as effectively as the future USA of The Puppet Masters.	2002-02-28
US	52851773	R2I1WE2NLV9T0S	0679721037	150142267	Hiroshima	Books	2	3	26	N	N	A Rather Detached Account of A Horrible Event	This story retraces the steps of six of the survivors of the blast from the atomic bomb dropped by the United States on Japan on August 6, 1945, which claimed over one hundred thousand lives.  The details described by the six were similar in many regards: the frequency of the sirens signaling U.S. air raids in the days preceding the bombs; the silence accompanying the flash of white light when the bomb hit; the people lying broken and dying in the parks and streets of the city; the fires blazing in every neighborhood.<br />The horror that accompanied the attack and its aftermath is recounted vividly.  The hospitals couldn't initially handle the throngs of wounded that flocked there, and only the absolute sickest could be treated with any urgency.  People literally melted in the streets.  Survivors contracted radiation sickness from the bomb's fallout that lasted for years, oftentimes leading to cancers.  Prejudice predominated against survivors of the blast (who were called \\"hibakusha,\\" or \\"explosion-affected persons\\", and whose average life expectancy was 62), who found themselves without government aid and as objects of discrimination by employers.<br />I learned a lot about an event that is described quickly in most history textbooks, in addition to the above-mentioned details.  For instance, the book describes a surprising indifference within Japan to the ethics of dropping this weapon of mass destruction.  However, the overall tone of the book shares that indifference.  Things were described clinically, which tended to belie their magnitude, and the third person omniscient narration didn't convey the panic which the survivors must have felt.  The character development was pretty lousy, too, and I would have traded the six shoddily-developed characters for a single well-developed one.<br />As an important aside, it is hard to avoid drawing parallels between the WWII climate and the current post-September 11th war we are currently engaged in.  Despite being horrified to read about the details of the atomic bomb fallout, I strongly feel that use of these weapons of mass destruction may be warranted against nations such as Iran and Iraq.  I realize this is serious language, but the magnitude of Hiroshima as a deterrent cannot be underestimated in terms of the protection it offered Americans (including the soldiers that did not have to risk their lives in battle).  For someone who believes in protecting us the citizens of this nation at any costs, it is a very realistic option that shouldn't be taken lightly, but should not be ignored or followed by the word \\"never.\\"orrified to read about the details of the atomic bomb fallout, I strongly feel that use of these weapons of mass destruction may be warranted against nations such as Iran and Iraq.  I realize this is serious language, but the magnitude of Hiroshima as a deterrent cannot be underestimated in terms of the protection it offered Americans (including the soldiers that did not have to risk their lives in battle).  For someone who believes in protecting us the citizens of this nation at any costs, it is a very realistic option that shouldn't be taken lightly, but should not be ignored or followed by the word \\"never.\\"	2002-02-28
US	52851773	R35ERZLBY2I65	0446346802	172207431	Brothers	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Ambitious but Slapdash	I wasn't crazy about this Marathon Man sequel.  Although Scylla was improbably resurrected from his fatal stabbing from the first book, this feat paled in comparison to the wealth of fantastic plot devices and tricks appearing throughout Brothers, which, while clever, were never quite explained: potions capable of encouraging suicide; sprays causing complete compliance in those within range; and bombs disguised as children, which can walk and talk effectively enough to fool brilliant scientists and government agents (and even sophisticates such as Scylla himself).  Unlike Marathon Man, I really had to suspend my disbelief in order to get into the action.<br />Fight scenes abound and are excellent- Goldman has a gift for describing them unconventionally and believably.  However, combat alone couldn't save this story; its scope was just too ambitious, and literally involved Scylla's assignment (and, later, efforts) to infiltrate the Division and to save the world.  The mention of Scylla's brother and Marathon Man protagonist Babe was token at best- he appeared spottily throughout, and was thrown in on the next to last page in a rushed effort to tie things up neatly.  In fact, the entire last quarter of Brothers was too summarily wrapped up.<br />I thought there were a lot of brilliant ideas in this story, the majority of which would have been better served if they were fleshed out in another few installments.  Scylla remains fascinating, although there was just too much going on in this story to do the complexity of his character justice.  Oddly, as another reviewer noted, Scylla seems to have altered his sexual preference as drastically as his external appearance, miraculously turning hetero without explanation (perhaps to further his attempts at anonymity?).  Quirks like this suggest that more development was necessary to make Brothers as robust as its predecessor.	2002-02-28
US	52851773	R3R793P48XXWUV	0671688774	20412244	Season on the Brink	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Great Account of An Ogre	Bob Knight is exposed by this account of the 1985-1986 season to embody all of the lousy qualities his detractors accuse him of possessing.  He is at times, and not necessarily in the alternative, a bully, a crybaby, a whiny baby, a moody child, incapable of human interaction, and driven beyond sanity.  He routinely reduced his players to tears, kicked them off the team, threw the basketball in their faces, humiliated them in front of one another, and played alongside them in scrimmages in a style much rougher than he would allow reciprocated.  He played mind games like telling his players not to dress for a game or not to show up for a road trip, expecting them to figure out whether or not he was serious.<br />I read this book to see if it softened my preconceived notion of Knight.  It didn't.  There were certainly times when I felt like Knight had gotten a bad rap, but there were more times that he got away with something he shouldn't have.  He absolutely made his own bed, and yet would cry oppression when asked to lay in it.  This book was aptly named, because Knight was always on the brink of getting thrown out of the program, and/or of realizing his fear of suffering the same fate as Woody Hayes (the Ohio State football coach who struck an opposing player at the end of the 1978 Gator Bowl).  [Of course, Knight would eventually leave the Indiana basketball program in exactly this ignominious fashion after this book's timeframe.]<br />In slight fairness to Knight, I admit it was courageous of him to allow Feinstein to trail him in a manner that leaves nothing to the imagination.  This story is absolutely a no-holds-barred account that Knight must have recognized as having enormous potential to make him look like a jerk.  To Feinstein's enormous credit, while reading this book, you never knew he was there; the is chronicle was as unbiased as it was free from the author's ego or influence. Feinstein's writing has a great pace, too, keeping each game's (and the season's) outcome a mystery until the end.  You really went through the ups and downs with the team, as if watching the season unfold in real-time.eason's) outcome a mystery until the end.  You really went through the ups and downs with the team, as if watching the season unfold in real-time.	2002-02-28
US	52851773	R2GYVXHPUGX5CA	034543014X	544398776	The Princess Bride: S. Morgenstern's Classic Tale of True Love and High Adventure (The 25th Anniversary Edition)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A richer version of an excellent movie	The Princess Bride novel and movie go hand in hand more closely than any other combination I have read/seen.  Lucky for the audience, both are excellent.  Also lucky for anyone who reads the book after having seen the movie, the former explores the characters, landscape, and history (e.g., of Guilder and Florin) much more deeply, and can afford to give insight into plot twists and turns that the film wasn't completely able to do.  In fact, I finished this book with a greater appreciation of the movie, and a better understanding about a piece of dialogue here or a reference there.<br />Of particular interest and amusement were the rich descriptions of the backgrounds of the villains who kidnap Buttercup and are pursued by the Man in Black:  Fezzik the giant was forced into professional wrestling by his Turkish parents despite his aversion to violence, and he had a penchant for rhyming games which was developed as a mechanism to cope with his troubles; Inigo the Spaniard was hellbent on avenging his father, who dedicated his life and sanity to crafting the world's most perfect sword, only to be snubbed and then slain by his customer, the Six Fingered Man.  Also noteworthy and absent from the movie are such elements as the Prince Humperdinck's Zoo of Death, and the tempestuousness of the relationship between Buttercup and Wesley (for Buttercup matured and became a lady during the course of the book, but was not without a bratty stage or two along the way).<br />Best of all, perhaps, was the alleged editing and abridging job that Goldman did on the S. Morgenstern text.  Believe what you will about whether or not there was such a beast as S. Morgenstern, whose tale is described by Goldman as a wry commentary on Guilder and Florin customs and history; that there is a debate at all, even a silly one, is testament to the spirit of fantasy this book creates.  Goldman's narratives and musings that interpolate the text are welcome interruptions, not to mention funny contributions to \\"the story overlying the story.\\"  The very concept of weaving a fictional abridgement into a stellar fictional tale is brilliant, especially doing so without derailing or distracting the audience.ons to \\"the story overlying the story.\\"  The very concept of weaving a fictional abridgement into a stellar fictional tale is brilliant, especially doing so without derailing or distracting the audience.	2002-02-28
US	52851773	R1JQWFN0DZ1B4B	0553287583	482755274	Drive: The Story of My Life	Books	2	4	6	N	N	I love Larry, I sort of liked Drive	This book was, in a word, harmless.  It pretty much tells the story of Larry's life in monotone, without evidencing much emotion one way or the other.  To be truthful, love him though I do, it reads exactly in the same flat sense as Larry interviews:  without much emotion, steadily, even-handedly, and passionlessly.  There is no gossip or bad-mouthing whatsoever in this book, to the point where you start to question the Birdman's candor, since he can't find anything bad to say about anyone.  The name dropping got to be too much, too, until you were awash in characters (many of whom were just mentioned once or twice, never to show up again), and had trouble remembering which guy came from where.  [Lucky for me I remembered a lot of the Celtics games from being a Boston fan back in the day- I can't imagine the torture of sorting out the names for the uninitiated.]<br />The end seems rushed, too, and drops away from the linear style of the rest of Drive, lapsing into stream-of-consciousness essays on a random variety of topics.  It is filler, really, to achieve a certain number of pages, and the book would have been better if Larry had waited a couple of years.  That way he could have written about his career's end and filled the rest of the pages of his autobiography with a recounting of actual basketball tales and events, instead of hollow ruminating on topics any number of players could have commented on in the same fashion.	2001-10-03
US	52851773	RZP1J540QXTLF	0446391301	890882757	Geek Love	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Amazingly Original	This book was like nothing I have ever read, although I can appreciate the comparisons to John Irving. This book was darker and gorier than an Irving novel, although the quirky character development is similar. I thoroughly enjoyed how the emotional aspects of these circus freak characters were developed and explored well enough to make one overlook their &quot;mutant-ness,&quot; and read the story as a tale of morality involving average, boring people like those seen on the news each day. However, despite its ability to do that, Geek Love also took pains to emphasize the clearly unnatural (and supernatural) quality of its characters, especially in view of the pride the Binewski family took in its members' uniqueness.<br />What an original idea, too! A family creates freaks for its circus sideshow by exposing its birthmother to carcinogens and teratogens, because it is too poor to obtain them through more conventional means of purchase or paying wages. The subplot (or &quot;coplot&quot;, if you will) involves the main character's attempts to secretly preserve her daughter's uniqueness against a sadist who wishes to disfigure her for pleasure. Wow.<br />This book could easily have lent itself to a commentary on racism, although I feel it resisted the urge, thus not muddying the storyline or coming across as too preachy in the process. The main character and storyteller Oly shared her thoughts about, and fears of, the norms, as well as her satisfaction at possessing features not shared by the norm community. Artie certainly exploited the norms, eliciting them to become as he was, in what became a bizarre and gruesome undercurrent within Geek Love; however, I viewed the description of his Arturism as more an editorial on religion (and blind adherence to all its ugly forms) than on cultural and racial differences.<br />Geek Love's attention to detail was marvelous. By the time the characters reached their ultimate incarnations, you could see how they'd gotten there by reading about their past. Their development was logical, though not quite predictable. In particular, Arty's rise from jealous showboat to evil cult hero was exciting and well-advanced. My only problem with the book was the anger it elicited by never giving the bad guys their comeuppance, and by never rewarding the loyal family members (and saints, really) such as Oly and Chick.reading about their past. Their development was logical, though not quite predictable. In particular, Arty's rise from jealous showboat to evil cult hero was exciting and well-advanced. My only problem with the book was the anger it elicited by never giving the bad guys their comeuppance, and by never rewarding the loyal family members (and saints, really) such as Oly and Chick.	2001-08-30
US	52851773	R225XIYYD861AC	0440203430	658306761	Crimson Joy (Spenser)	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Typical Spenser fare, for Better or for Worse	This book is a typical Spenser for Hire book, for better or for worse. You know the routine by now: capable of a read in a single sitting; the witty repartee; the sassy and cocksure internal narrative by Spenser; the sparring with Hawk to mask the mutual feelings of respect; the surprisingly clever descriptions of characters; the Boston settings depicted with pride. Parker is to be commended on his choice of words, because although his stories are so brief, they say a lot and don't waste much time. In fact, I describe the Spenser stories as compact more than short. They are powerful in that Parker never lets you forget he is a wordsmith, and capable of great bursts of creativity and humor.<br />Crimson Joy is not as action packed as other Spenser books, and is more cerebral. Susan plays more of a role in this one, too, and thus it has a lot of psychological overtones. This makes the book interesting from a clinical sense, but some readers might miss the fighting and machismo. This book is kind of sexy, too, in terms of its exploration of Spenser and Susan's relationship, though it never stoops to being crude or raunchy. [I keep forgetting these are just racy enough to prevent their becoming family books, since I find myself wanting to recommend them to folks of all ages.]	2001-08-30
US	52851773	R1QVOSN8ZHOC40	1572972939	881546750	Penn & Teller's How to Play in Traffic	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Read it for the Stories	I am pretty sure the tricks described herein wouldn't work with the people I know, as all of the stunts involve a lot of acting and dialogue as part of the set-up.  That said, who cares?  This book is hilarious, and as a simple work of comedy, it kills.  The now-familiar Penn rants are hysterical, and the descriptions of the duo's friends and favorite places are quite interesting.  In particular, the review of the Mutter Museum in Philadelphia (of anatomical and pathological specimens, medical instruments, etc.) is a dark and touching tribute.  There is a confusing piece of fiction about a man granted three wishes that I found odd, but otherwise, the book's flow was nice and seamless.  As with the live P &amp; T show, there are a lot of great quotes and witticisms.  No great work of literature, this, but an extremely effective piece of travel writing that is a hair more intelligent than other books similarly categorized.	2001-07-06
US	52851773	R3B86FL1FRTBQM	0767905091	756974129	Let it Blurt: The Life and Times of Lester Bangs, America's Greatest Rock Critic	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Rock Journalism 101	&quot;Let it Blurt&quot; is an important history lesson in the rock journalism and criticism that many of us take for granted.  I for one never gave any thought to its origins, and assumed music reviews have been around since the advent of magazines.  Little did I know that it was championed by charismatic dreamers, frustrated musicians, and firebrands who saw the forum as a way through which to turn others on to the music they were so passionate about.  In a lot of ways, the early critics for magazines like Rolling Stone and Creem were like &quot;old school&quot; athletes- folks who weren't paid much, and did it for the love of the game.  Lester Bangs wrote in order exorcise his own feelings about music, while broadcast his feelings to a broader audience, whether they took the form of passionate endorsements, angry tirades, or merely exorcised demons.<br />One of the salient points made by DeRogatis is that when Bangs wrote reviews, he used the word &quot;we&quot;, so as to implicate the reading audience, &quot;addressing his readers as fellow appreciators instead of mere consumers.&quot;  In other words, Bangs was writing for the audience instead of to it.  He was a music fan first, and a writer second.  Now, however, reviewers seem more out to pitch product, or at the very least, to avoid confrontation or- God forbid- being blacklisted from a band or record company's party and/or press release invitation list.<br />As a character study/biography independent of a rock criticism history, the story of Lester Bangs is captivating.  His celebrity was certainly unconventional, and on the periphery of the oft-told stories of rock stars.  He had the addictive personality, the creativity, and the personal demons of a rock star, but communicated through a different- though overlapping- medium.  He seemed like a loveable bear of a guy- no saint, to be sure- but someone you could have a few beers with while engaging in a frank discussion of (what's wrong with) your favorite band.  Bangs clearly struggled with the unrealized dreams, girl problems, and increasingly-politically correct world that most of us do.<br />DeRogatis' research was impeccable, and it is clear that Bangs was a hero of his.  Furthermore, the writings of Bangs that are quoted throughout make the book read like an interview.  While DeRogatis clearly is biased in his admiration for Lester, his writing was never fawning, nor did it gloss over the character's flaws.  Lastly, there is a well chosen piece from Bangs at the end- a sarcastic piece on how to be a rock critic.  Anyone who enjoyed this book will surely be pursuing more of Bangs' writing.  I know I will.rite band.  Bangs clearly struggled with the unrealized dreams, girl problems, and increasingly-politically correct world that most of us do. <br />DeRogatis' research was impeccable, and it is clear that Bangs was a hero of his.  Furthermore, the writings of Bangs that are quoted throughout make the book read like an interview.  While DeRogatis clearly is biased in his admiration for Lester, his writing was never fawning, nor did it gloss over the character's flaws.  Lastly, there is a well chosen piece from Bangs at the end- a sarcastic piece on how to be a rock critic.  Anyone who enjoyed this book will surely be pursuing more of Bangs' writing.  I know I will.	2001-07-06
US	52851773	R174MDSGPYFUHT	0345342968	383457570	Fahrenheit 451	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent Commentary on Censorship and Political Correctness	Fahrenheit 451 is a futuristic parable that warns of the bleakness of a society in which political correctness has gone awry.  The firemen in the story burn books (and the houses in which they are found) in an effort to save mankind from being offended by their contents.  There are a couple of gripping passages in the middle of the story, amidst intense action sequences, in which the firemen's philosophy is expounded, and a history is given to explain the madness.  In the words of the fire marshal (Beatty), &quot;Colored people don't like Little Black Sambo.  Burn it.  White people don't feel good about Uncle Tom's Cabin.  Burn it.  Someone's written a book on tobacco and cancer of the lungs?  The cigarette people are weeping?  Burn the book.&quot;  And so on.<br />The main character (and fireman) Montag evolves from someone who merely observes with a curious detachment the odd book-loving maverick around him, to an active participant in a quest to salvage what little is left by way of the written word.  He is inspired by a little girl and an old man, both unconventional thinkers, and along the way, Montag's disdain grows for his conformist wife.  [Curiously, and most prophetically, Montag's wife's love of interactive television (or its futuristic analog) ends up stripping her of any individuality or character, and causes Montag to tire of her more quickly.]<br />A great read, all in all, with credible characters, creative and thought-provoking settings and devices (including a mechanical &quot;hound&quot; working for the fire department that tracks prey according to its hormonal makeup (or &quot;odor index&quot;), and dispatches it with a poison syringe), and a caustic tone that spares no one (the media, the government, religion, etc.).  The story is totally conceivable, too (even today, despite its completion in 1953), which serves to scare the reader more than the most fantastic piece of fiction ever could.  My edition had a riveting Afterward by Bradbury as well, circa 1979, in which the author inveighed against censorship and those who see fit to censor.  In the author's own words, &quot;There is more than one way to burn a book.&quot;, circa 1979, in which the author inveighed against censorship and those who see fit to censor.  In the author's own words, &quot;There is more than one way to burn a book.&quot;	2001-06-20
US	52851773	RW5S0XH0OMHL7	0884116530	684479950	Marathon Man	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Tightly Written Account of an Unlikely Protagonist	Marathon Man is tightly woven tale of espionage which involves a protagonist who is drawn into the action completely against his will, and in an extraordinarily short period of time.  This is a tough book to review without giving away how the seemingly disparate characters interrelate, but suffice it to say the way in which they do is both clever and clearly well designed.  Though there is clearly a rich history to the main character (and his family) which is alluded to often, it never truly gets developed, and the actual action sequences take place over a 36 hour or so span.<br />Nevertheless, the pace, dialog, and conflict are all realistic, and artfully enough crafted so as not to seem rushed, and there are some interesting spices added to the mix which seem incongruous, including marathon running, dentistry, and Nazism.  Lastly, there is a chilling torture scene and enough revenge exacted to reward you for rooting for the good guys.	2001-05-29
US	52851773	R1EJLQOIC784A6	0380720817	305024797	Clockers / Movie Tie In	Books	5	62	64	N	N	An unconventional murder mystery with street credibility	Clockers is a murder mystery, complete with suspense and a twist ending, cloaked in an unconventional, raw street setting.  The novel possesses more street-smarts than any other book I've read, fiction or not.  The dialogue, internally (i.e., in the characters' own heads) and externally, was tough and vibrant, and employed street vernacular which rang credible without sounding clich&eacute;d.  Many authors tell tales of drug dealers and ghetto crimes, but rare is the account from a drug-dealer's point of view.  A troubled, intelligent, calculating  drug-dealer, no less, who considers the repercussions of his every move.<br />All of Clockers' characters were realistically flawed, able to invoke both sympathy and disgust.  Strike, the ulcer-stricken dealer, was in constant turmoil as he struggled between trying to earn enough from his illicit trade to get out of it, and attempting to help others avoid being dragged into the same web.  Rocco, the homicide detective and delinquent family-man, had a love-hate relationship with his work, and sought a mission through which to justify his continued involvement in the force.  Victor (Strike's brother) was an honest, hard working black man who had risen above the allure of the street life around him, but wrestled with his own demons and internal sense of justice.  Everyone's paths met with the murder of a lesser character, at which point the cat and mouse game was afoot.<br />Lesser, but no less interesting plot lines abound: Strike's education of his would-be apprentice, Tyrone; Strike's efforts to free himself from an unhealthily dependent relationship with drug kingpin Rodney; and Rocco's schoolboy interest in being shadowed by a cocksure filmmaker with an interest in a police picture.  Also fascinating and seemingly credible were the lessons in police and ghetto-civilian dealings: crooked cops being paid for protection; dealers ratting on one another to escape arrest; and unlikely, yet highly effective, working relationships between cops and dealers born from years of coexistence.  Lastly, the issues broached by Clockers are current by today's standards, including AIDS, the questionable efficacy of drug busts, and the shiftlessness of ghetto kids who turn to pushing in the absence of concerned adults.tween cops and dealers born from years of coexistence.  Lastly, the issues broached by Clockers are current by today's standards, including AIDS, the questionable efficacy of drug busts, and the shiftlessness of ghetto kids who turn to pushing in the absence of concerned adults.	2001-05-29
US	52851773	R3FF2856S2UY0J	0345404475	978657248	Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?: The inspiration for the films Blade Runner and Blade Runner 2049	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Good Movie, Great Book	What an excellent example of the oft-stated principle that &quot;reading the book is better.&quot;  Blade Runner is a good movie, in my opinion, but Dick's story on which it was based is a lot more cerebral, offers many extras that would have been difficult to pull off in film, yet is no less entertaining.  There is a pervasive animal component to the story that is not fleshed out in the film, which is not only interesting but a neat commentary-slash-prediction on the possible future implications of Earth's growing list of endangered and extinct species.  Also, there is a much different dynamic to the Deckard- Rachael Rosen relationship than was presented in Blade Runner, and another, colder bounty hunter is introduced who causes Deckard to rethink his personal philosophy.  The descriptions of the futuristic setting were intriguing, yet not over the top (that was predictably better handled on film), and there are clever technologies presented such as mood organs and empathy boxes.<br />Do Androids Dream... has a fascinating story line and unique perspective that is a refreshing change from the more apocalyptic tones of science fiction.  Instead of trying to save the earth per se, Deckard is charged with keeping the peace, albeit in a sense not (yet) faced by today's law enforcement officers or vigilantes.  &quot;Retiring&quot; androids might seem to be amoral on the surface, yet the equation gets complicated the more human the androids are built.<br />The only aspect I wasn't crazy about was the presentation of the religion/philosophy of Mercerism.  I appreciated the commentary made by Dick about people's cultish devotion to a belief system, and the system's eventual expose, but I thought that aspect of the story needed more developing.  The Mercer passages were largely symbolic, and described in vague terms of imagery- a sharp contrast to the rest of the book's style.  [As an aside, the copy I had of this mixed up the words &quot;emphatic&quot; and &quot;empathic&quot; often, which was kind of an odd editing oversight, especially as the ability of humans to empathize was a central theme of the work.]&quot; often, which was kind of an odd editing oversight, especially as the ability of humans to empathize was a central theme of the work.]	2001-03-12
US	52851773	RD7EZ94MYCAKQ	0553280414	586746552	A Separate Peace	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Powerful Coming of Age Story	This story resonates more powerfully now than when I read it years ago in high school.  While the dialogue is sharp and the story line believable, the innocence the characters fell from seems a lot purer than that today's teenagers face (especially in light of the spate of school shootings in the last few years).  However, the war evidently was a horrible thing to live through at any age, and the perspective offered through the eyes of Gene and his classmates is an interesting one: Phinneas put up a façade of denial about the war, Gene seemed fatalistic about it, and Leper seems to have viewed it almost as a vacation getaway (i.e., a ski excursion).<br />Obviously a great deal of the book's focus is on the relationship between Phinneas and Gene, which is sharply depicted as love-hate.  Analytical and conspiracy-prone Gene eyes Phinneas with suspicion as they begin their senior year, and then is bent on contrition when he realizes the consequences of engaging his imagined enemy.  Phinneas tried to suppress the idea of Gene causing him to break his leg, and then falls apart at the seams when confronted with the truth.  The other characters complement Gene and Finny nicely (and accurately, for anyone ever to attend a boarding school), from the stereotypical schoolboy snotty villain Brinker, to the stuffy professors, to the born victim Leper.  All of the right elements are present, and make for a compelling read.	2001-03-08
US	52851773	R85K4OU4DK2E0	0140481354	406245049	A View from the Bridge (Penguin Plays)	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Makes An Impact Despite Its Brevity	This is a tightly woven story that packs a punch in just a few pages.  In fact, it was short enough that I thought there was no way to resolve the conflicts that left me hanging until the last few pages.  Sure enough, Miller effectively tied up loose ends and still managed to surprise me despite ending in a similar fashion to what most would predict.<br />The play is about an uncle's overprotective nature, which runs so deeply as to be too close for comfort, and the fact that no one would ever be good enough for the niece living in his home.  The take home message is about letting go of something you love, as well as swallowing your pride, which ultimately leads to the downfall of at least two of the characters.  Eddie's failure to cut his losses and admit he was wrong left him proud but dead.<br />The setting gives a cool, albeit tiny, insight into what the New York waterfront must have felt like long ago, and the narration (through the eyes of the lawyer from whom Eddie sought advice) is a neat touch.	2001-03-07
US	52851773	R4OG42SZULSR5	0822202905	826622434	Death of a Salesman	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Tragically Real	I knew this play was sad, but I didn't realize how pitiable the characters were until I picked it up recently.  I think what makes this an even more tragic read is that Willy Lowman is likely recognizable- in bits and pieces, anyway- in a lot of people we know.  There are facets of Lowman's character that, unfortunately, most people can probably identify with, albeit on a smaller scale (I know I can): the desire to be universally liked and/or respected; the inability to face reality and therefore masking it with a cheery façade; refusal to relinquish the glory days; and the act of putting down others behind their back so as to inflate one's own self worth.  Unfortunately, the combination of these ills, and a host of others, combined with a couple of prodigal sons, proved to be too much for poor Willy to handle.<br />Willy and sons may not have been loveable characters, but they were human, and certainly oftentimes well-intentioned, and it seems they never set out to intentionally hurt anyone.  Still, it is this lack of inherent evil that makes the play so thought provoking: do we hate the fact that Willy had a mistress, or condone it because he was so lonely?  Was Happy just a shiftless bum who should have offered his father more support, or was he understandably destined not to achieve after having witnessed his father cheating on his mom?  This is an interesting read in terms of presenting these and similar questions, and was startlingly realistic in its tone and dialogue.	2001-03-07
US	52851773	R3HJQ0HMLPCPIR	0395977894	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	4	31	35	N	N	Yecchh- Eat More Vegetables	First of all, I was surprised by the scope of Schlosser's indictment of the fast food industry: I expected a harangue against the health implications about eating fast food, and maybe an aside about the shoddy way in which workers in the industry are treated, both at the restaurants and behind the scenes (e.g., at slaughterhouses).  Schlosser presented so much more to think about, including questionable marketing campaigns targeted at children; the hammering home of American culinary culture upon unwilling customers abroad (including a fast food joint placed obscenely close to the Dachau concentration camp); the monopolistic practices of mega-corporations which are driving small ranchers and potato growers out of the business; and the efforts on the part of fast food management to discourage unionization and creativity among its workforce.<br />The book was educational not only in terms of presenting the big picture, but also in terms of the data provided: research was clearly done, not to mention cited extensively.  Schlosser seems to have paid his dues on the front lines as well, having visited slaughterhouses, potato fields and processing plants, farms, and countless restaurants.  Interview excerpts abound, providing faces to accompany the facts.  In many ways, that is where the real information lies: for example, canvassing the opinion of many teenagers working at fast food restaurants leads Schlosser to the logical conclusion that, all other concerns aside (e.g., regarding E. Coli, mad cow disease, atherosclerosis, etc.), the quality and purity of your fast food has a lot (too much!) to do with how much the employees like their manager (that is, how likely they are to sabotage your meal).  I was impressed, too, with how Schlosser ended this book by offering suggestions about not only what needs to be done in terms of the big picture, but also what individuals can do (including (obviously) not eating the stuff).<br />After reading this, I wondered how it is that more people don't get sick after eating this stuff.  Obviously our immune systems are pretty robust, although the long terms effects of fast food diets seem to manifest new symptoms daily.  There is a lot to be afraid of in this book, should the reader choose to accept all of it as truth, and it is an effective tool to influence people away from the cheeseburger and fries, and towards the salad bar or homemade turkey sandwich.<br />The only criticism I had of the book was that Schlosser unfairly blamed everything on the Republicans.  Politics inevitably enter the fast food arena, but the evils of this industry are due to both sides.  It seems like Schlosser uses the information he has harvested to take digs at the right wherever he can, often in an anomalous fashion.  As another reviewer put it well, &quot;Last time I checked we had a Democrat President from 1992 to 2000.&quot;hat more people don't get sick after eating this stuff.  Obviously our immune systems are pretty robust, although the long terms effects of fast food diets seem to manifest new symptoms daily.  There is a lot to be afraid of in this book, should the reader choose to accept all of it as truth, and it is an effective tool to influence people away from the cheeseburger and fries, and towards the salad bar or homemade turkey sandwich.  <br />The only criticism I had of the book was that Schlosser unfairly blamed everything on the Republicans.  Politics inevitably enter the fast food arena, but the evils of this industry are due to both sides.  It seems like Schlosser uses the information he has harvested to take digs at the right wherever he can, often in an anomalous fashion.  As another reviewer put it well, &quot;Last time I checked we had a Democrat President from 1992 to 2000.&quot;	2001-03-07
US	52851773	R277XE2M6PS26Y	0440187044	881440442	This Perfect Day	Books	4	13	16	N	N	Great story about a bleak future	A fantastic tale of the horrors of a future society that abdicates freedom in exchange for efficiency.  As with The Boys From Brazil, Levin's &quot;This Perfect Day&quot; would seem prophetic if written today, and is astounding considering it predates 1970.  Before picking this up, I had no idea Levin had written any science fiction, and was pleased to find this book as thought-provoking and thrilling as his others.  The writing was tight, the characters realistic (even for the future), the tone modern, and there were twists throughout.  It also ends on a happier note than do many of Levin's other works.<br />Incidentally, &quot;This Perfect Day&quot; reminded me a little of (Heinlein's) Stranger In A Strange Land in terms of its sexually cavalier mores (it is surprisingly passionate), and- as with Stranger's &quot;grok&quot;- in the way some of its catch phrases should be (are (?)) a part of the science fiction vernacular (&quot;Fight Uni&quot;; &quot;Christ, Marx, Wood, and Wei&quot;).	2001-02-01
US	52851773	R7HAAXBFEK6VU	0451194004	982014605	Rosemary's Baby	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Tight as a drum	Like the many alibis given throughout this book, Rosemary's Baby's plot was airtight.  I couldn't find a flaw in the suspenseful lead to the climax; not once did I come across something unconvincing, implausible, or contrary to an earlier mentioned event or detail.  Levin gave this work just the right amount of foreshadowing to keep me guessing throughout its entirety, and to either pat myself on the back for figuring out a cleverly placed hint or chastise myself for missing one.  In that sense, this book was a literal page-turner, as I backtracked an awful lot to see where I'd read a certain name or detail before.  My anticipation was held throughout.<br />I wasn't crazy about the end, which I won't give away, but suffice it to say that the revenge-loving reader won't be sated.  Also, between this book and the Stepford Wives, Levin demonstrates a knack for casting us men as such awful villains, participating in nefarious schemes against the women who love us.  Ouch.	2001-01-26
US	52851773	R2CQA7I7KHDAQF	0553297422	131345277	The Deceiver	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Fabulous	This book had everything- suspense, action, psychological thrills, and clever plot twists.  And, to boot, there are four stories that each are independent of the other, yet are interwoven in that they trace career highlights of the Deceiver.<br />Forsyth's attention to detail is startling in light of the complexity of the stories he tells.  He is one of the few espionage-slash-action writers I can stomach, because his style is so vivid and clean.  This book is excellent and is every bit as good as Jackal and Odessa File.	2001-01-25
US	52851773	R265RKDU7EES7T	0671042858	321732450	The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Not the Steven King I remembered as a kid	Don't get me wrong- this story was well written, but it lacked the punch that other Steven King books delivered for me when I last read some of them years ago (e.g., The Stand, Pet Cemetery, It).  King is gifted at describing horror in the commonplace (think Cujo or Christine), but even he couldn't wring macabre out of a simple case of a girl lost in the woods.  The story was convincing in that I believed it accurately depicted what a 9 year old would do if lost in the woods, but I just didn't care that much.  Also, the creature stalking the girl is a let down and kind of seems tossed in as an afterthought.  The girl was perishing all right on her own without the intervention of evil incarnate shaped like a badly drawn bear.	2001-01-24
US	52851773	R9YNKZ9KQNK7L	0553210165	641528927	Hard Times (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Hard Times, indeed (but rewarding)	This book at times was challenging to read due to its drab setting (Victorian England) and heavy (read: depressing) subject matter, but its clear message and singularity of theme helped keep me focused: all work and no play makes Jack (or in this case, the Gradgrind children) a dull boy.  All in all, an excellent and convincing criticism of Utilitarianism.  The characters were well developed and evoked genuine feeling, although ultimately you either hate or feel sorry for all of them.  Poor Louisa was piteous, having bypassed childhood and forgone love to slavishly follow her father's iron rule; while Josiah Bounderby elicited the kind of loathing one has for a sleazy politician, the way he concealed his privileged background in order to appear self-made and humble.<br />Despite being almost 150 years old, this tale wasn't dated one bit, and its lessons are appropriate today along the lines of &quot;stop and smell the roses.&quot;  However, its teachings are not of the inspirational sort, and to read this I would suggest being free from distractions (you will need to concentrate to get through some of the slower parts), and keeping some sort of emotional pick-me-up nearby afterwards.  Lastly, unlike some reviews I have seen, I thought it was seamless, despite its being published in installments.	2001-01-24
US	52851773	R3C9ZYKT7BFYB9	0618002219	669379389	The Hobbit: or There and Back Again	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Pure and Simple	Cute.  This is a simple child's tale that serves as a nice springboard to the epic Lord of the Rings trilogy.  It stands by itself as a nice story, yet is good enough to make you rush for the real McCoy- the next three books.  The fertility of Tolkien's mind is amazing, and the places and creatures described in the Hobbit are such that it would have taken scores of other writers several lifetimes to conceive of them.  Bilbo Baggins and his company are loveable characters, and my only criticism of the tale is that they seem to escape every jam they find themselves in, to the point that you stopped wondering whether or not they would make it with each new challenge that presented itself.	2001-01-24
US	52851773	RF72UDTVRNNU8	0375709177	706701041	The Iceman Cometh	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Heavy	A quickly read, depressing story of the shattering of dreams.  The tale is so descriptive of its hard times that you can imagine it taking place in the dingiest, dreariest dive bar you ever set foot inside.  The characters are cranky and irritating, and yet you can somehow appreciate the rut they're in and pity them.  The play is brilliant in its power to describe in the briefest way the desperation of these souls, and their willingness to buy their ticket to freedom when the Iceman comes to town.  Great surprise finish as well.	2001-01-24
US	52851773	RWA8WEWUK5ING	0394750535	370108779	Saturday Night	Books	4	10	10	N	N	As entertaining as the show itself (the good episodes)	An excellent book, in terms of its breadth and the behind-the-scenes perspective it gives to the Saturday Night Live episodes we have all seen on TV.  The writers certainly did their homework, and yet the scores of names, dates, and places mentioned never bog down the flow of this story.  It is fascinating to read about the clashes between these stars who were both comic geniuses and petulant egomaniacs, and frankly, it is surprising that any episodes were able to air at all.  Despite what you think about Saturday Night Live, you cannot deny the show's existence as a television institution, and reading this book makes you appreciate its innovation then, and longevity now, all the more.	2001-01-24
US	52851773	R2IJT8KGUBOE8D	0316528692	546534474	The Fugitive Game: Online with Kevin Mitnick	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Not as Exciting As I'd Hoped	One good thing I can say about this book is that the author didn't suffer from too much distance from his subject (Kevin Mitnick) to accurately describe him- the two spoke on the phone with regularity while the hacker was on the lam.  However, this intimacy actually hurt the story in that the author injected himself too much in the tale.  I was interested in learning about the seedy lives of these hackers and information thieves, and not about journalistic competition and the charge that the author got out of talking to a fugitive.  The writing was disjointed, too: a phone conversation here, a snippet from a New York Times article, there.  The story wasn't told in the chronologically ordered fashion that makes most nonfiction works easily read.<br />That aside, although I don't doubt that this book gives an honest and straightforward account of how Shimomura tracked down Mitnick, the story itself isn't that thrilling.  I didn't like and/or root for any of the players, thought they were self-serving children, and ended up hoping they all would get caught.  The &quot;takedown&quot; was anticlimactic and was like witnessing first-graders spit in one another's milk and tattle on each other.  Mitnick, Lewis DePayne, and Agent Steal in particular were loathsome, both in their actions and their attempts to rationalize what they'd done.  Claiming that the illegalities one person commits are all right because they are not as bad as another's is ethically a tough pill to swallow- and yet is the morality that pervades the lives of the hackers depicted herein.<br />All told, I ended up frustrated in the FBI, worried about the security of my computer and the internet in general, and saddened to learn more about yet another brand of creep threatening the good people left the world: the hacker.	2001-01-24
US	52851773	R2Q7R3T98AZ45X	0553290037	868613530	Stepford Wives, The	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Tale Right Out of the Twilight Zone	Suspenseful, tightly woven, and with just the right amount of foreshadowing/hint-dropping.  This book is excellent in its depiction of a patriarchal society willing to go to great lengths to keep its women down.  You quickly suspect what is going on, though don't know who or what will prevail until the very end.  The dialogue is believable, and I struggled with what I would do if in Joanna's (the protagonist's) situation.  Who do you turn to when you discover something unbelievable, and how effective would you be at convincing them?	2001-01-24
US	52851773	R2USXZU9T9XWBL	0451191145	604964480	Atlas Shrugged	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Brilliant.  Its lessons are as true today as ever.	One of Atlas Shrugged's many excellent take-home messages is that hard work fuels our society, and the desire to create wealth for oneself is what ultimately brings out the best in an economy.  At the risk of getting on a soap box, this book serves as an excellent parable of the dire direction in which society can head when it continues to give handouts to able bodied people who are too lazy to work; when it saps its citizens of fiduciary gain via taxes and thus provides a disincentive to working harder; and when too much deference is given to the squeaky wheels among us.  This story sounds all too familiar, unfortunately, and I am amazed at how prophetic Rand's tale is- she must have seen things coming (can you say &quot;Al Gore&quot;?).<br />The story's only drawback was a 75+ page soliloquy about money that became overkill over its first 10 pages.	2001-01-24
US	52851773	R3GPEGO5ZC2VLI	0451522389	53414232	The Time Machine and The Invisible Man (Signet classics)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Timeless (no pun intended)	These stories have not lost a step in the 100+ years since they were written, and they capture the imagination as well as anything since captured on film or in print.  The invisible man is a great villain- evil enough to disdain, complex and tortured enough to make you wonder if you should pity him as well.  The Time Machine is brilliant all the way through, from its inception in the study of the Time Traveler's home to the end, when he travels millions of years in the future to scurry back to his machine at sight of a huge amorphous form in the distance.  Wells' depiction of the distant future seems no less accurate- and is no less exciting- than any since described anywhere.	2001-01-24
US	52851773	R257CFGPNYWWRX	0553283936	475102812	The Negotiator	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Forsyth's Brain is an Encyclopedia of Espionage	Forsyth continues to amaze me with his attention to detail and mastery of his subject matter.  The information he has between his ears about espionage, military tactics, geography, rules of engagement, etc. would make any policeman, detective, or military leader drool.  I have read about five of Forsyth's books, and The Negotiator ranks up there with the best of them.  As always, the book is fast paced, entertaining, and leaves you wondering how the hero is always one step ahead of the bad guys.<br />The Negotiator is thrilling in the James Bond sense: you are amazed at the same time you say to yourself, &quot;Oh, come on.&quot;  You know that there will be a plot twist, but you can't necessarily predict where it will come from, and/or which good guy will turn out to be bad.  Forsyth's descriptions of landscape alone, from cities in the Netherlands to the rural Vermont countryside, demonstrate the author's range, never mind his accounts of weaponry and combat.  Out of sight.	2000-10-03
US	52851773	R64UCQFBRZVI8	067100669X	497900237	Tears of Rage	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Every Community Needs a John Walsh	An amazing book that gives a raw, honest account of a man's struggle to solve the mystery of his son's death, and then to institute measures to facilitate others' similar searches.  Walsh's narrative is painful to read, yet essential to communicate the depths of his feelings and to explain the intensity behind his search and chosen life's mission.  He is driven beyond words, and has done an incredible amount of work throughout the country for missing persons and abducted children, not the least of which is the program he is know for creating (America's Most Wanted).<br />This book is shocking in its exposure of the police incompetence and lack of statutory law Walsh faced throughout his quest, and in its description of the lengths he had to go to in order to get assistance and, ultimately, (some) answers.  A salient point is that Walsh discovered (and describes in the book) a wealth of legislation and safety measures afforded to criminals, yet an appalling lack of the same for victims and their families.  Walsh took it upon himself to make things happen for the sake of victims, including helping to enact legislation regarding missing children, assisting with the creation of nationwide databases of missing persons and unidentified corpses, and instituting the dissemination of missing kids' images (like the faces seen on the back of milk cartons).  Walsh continues to run himself ragged pursuing his life's work of helping missing children and their families, seemingly at the cost of everything else.<br />In addition to the telling of an incredible tale, Walsh is an exciting, and surprisingly witty, narrator that keeps the reader entertained amidst the recounting of tragedy.  He is a true hero in every sense of the word.  Simply put, without people like John Walsh, change for the better is impossible; anyone with kids should be grateful that he was able to turn his bitter tragedy into something so positive.	2000-10-02
US	52851773	R2YE4YUW44VB09	0425103552	668211791	Marine Sniper: 93 Confirmed Kills	Books	3	17	22	N	N	Interesing Account of A Man Dedicated to His Craft	This book describes a quiet legend of the armed forces- the antithesis of the blustery, bombastic type like Richard Marcinko (Rogue Warrior).  Hathcock made enormous contributions to America's involvement in the Vietnam war, and to the art of sniping as a military tactic in general.  Sniping is an under-appreciated form of engagement, to be sure, and this book's description make it almost seem like a work of art, supported with convincing evidence of its efficacy.<br />To say that Hathcock was dedicated to his task is a gross understatement; he is clearly the stuff that military heroes are made of.  At times he evoked pity, so despondent was he when he found himself in civilian life for one reason or another.  He calls to mind the tortured genius that cannot dedicate himself enough to his life's work to ever be satisfied.  In addition to describing an fascinating character, the book was fairly well written, though I often had time conceptualizing the landscapes that were described.	2000-10-02
US	52851773	RSE0E2J8IRINH	0446607266	994744331	Permanent Midnight: A Memoir	Books	4	28	31	N	N	Droll	This was my favorite of a long string of [auto]biographies I have read about (at least in large part) substance abuse (including Basketball Diaries, Blow, Disco Bloodbath, Long time Gone (about David Crosby), A  Drinking Life, etc.).  I enjoyed Stahl's writing style a great deal- he's  got a dry wit, and writes a droll account.  However, his  &quot;hipness&quot; did leave me in the dust a few times.  He facilely  rattles off names and movies by way of analogy and metaphor, and I am  either too young or watch too few movies to understand them all.  The book  is through and through Hollywood in its groovy tone; even when Stahl  inveighs against Tinseltown's excesses and characters, you can see that he  is a part of the scene (e.g., he was killing himself with smack yet was a  staunch vegetarian and long distance runner).  Still, the book is  hilarious, especially if you like things viewed through a sardonic lens.<br />Permanent Midnight is as objectively recounted as I suppose can be, and  while Stahl doesn't seem to ask the reader for pity, I felt he tried to  paint his environment as bleakly as possible, so as to lead one to think  his drug use was inevitable.  Truth be told, Stahl didn't seem to have it  so bad, and fell blindly into a series of enviable career positions that  probably only led to drugs because of the capital it gave him with which to  feed his habit.	2000-06-09
US	52851773	R3O2KGBBEH3YHI	0440107601	138277602	The Boys from Brazil	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Eerily Prophetic	Not only is this book a fantastic cliffhanger, it is ahead of its time in its treatment of the subject matter of cloning (and its ethical considerations/horrors).  The plot is so imaginative and creative, and  could serve as the perfect hypothetical case to attend discussion of human  cloning (e.g., as was the rage when Dolly was cloned a few years ago).  Dr.  Mengele was realistically portrayed as a fictional character, eliciting the  kind of hatred that he does in real life.  I suppose the best thing I can  say about this book is that I read it once a few years back, and therefore  knew how the story ended, yet during a recent re-read still found it a  page-turner that I couldn't put down.	2000-06-09
US	52851773	R30Q1F3EKRRDUN	0451179188	600726954	The Throat (Blue Rose, Book 3)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Good Stuff	A much more interesting read than other books I've attempted in this genre (and, for that matter, than Straub's Ghost Story).  I usually don't like mystery/horror novels, but picked up a copy on a lark, and found it  spellbinding.  The story was tight, had believable twists throughout, and  featured characters that kept you vacillating between loving 'em and hating  'em.  Not gory at all, just well-choreographed and clever.  If his other  books read like The Throat, I plan on picking up more Straub in the future.	2000-06-08
US	52851773	R340RZXHC9OYPI	0385484518	725864791	Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, A Young Man and Life's Greatest Lesson	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Sweet	This is a touching story that can be read in one afternoon, and with its feel-good tone, easy language, and brief presentation, it comes across like an issue of Reader's Digest.  I can't imagine someone not liking Morrie, or  the lesson learned by the author, but there's not much to the book.  Take  it out from the library- you'll enjoy it, but it isn't something you'll  need to refer to all the time for daily affirmation.	2000-06-08
US	52851773	RW43YISEE1HGU	006101351X	637283524	The Perfect Storm: A True Story of Men Against the Sea	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Well done	Tidy and well researched, and so much more interesting than those other true-life extreme stories that get mentioned in the same breath (e.g., John Krakaeur).  Gives a nice background into the fishing industry, which had  the potential to be more boring than it was actually presented, and it  elicits sympathy for the characters.  While the author admits in the  preface that he didn't want to inject too much fiction into the crew's  final days, he nonetheless paints a seemingly accurate picture, and  certainly a fascinating one (not to mention that the book does feature  plenty of eyewitness accounts from the storm's unwilling participants).  The book also had a nice descriptive touch to help the reader visualize the  events whose magnitude needed to be appreciated.	2000-06-08
US	52851773	R2UOZX1W6AXIJJ	0394746163	23685052	Common Ground: A Turbulent Decade in the Lives of Three American Families	Books	5	11	18	N	N	Hugely Important	A hugely important work, immense in its scope.  This book is an excellent educational experience, on at least the levels of racial attitudes in the 60's and beyond, Boston and New England history, local and national  politics, and social stratification.  Common ground is detailed in its  factual accounts, empathic with its central characters, and insightful yet  unbiased.  A must-read for anyone from the Northeast, and a should-read for  everyone else.  I hope to read this at least every other year, so as not to  forget its importance and cultural significance.	2000-06-08
US	52851773	RBMH2MC7BWNZY	0684857642	708489743	Disco Bloodbath: A Fabulous But True Tale of Murder in Clubland	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Lighthearted read about heavy subject	A cute little story.  Nothing too heavy, a little goofily-written (St. James comes across like a pixie, a little too happy and flighty), moderately-exciting subject matter.  Definitely an insider account, which I  feel is unfortunately too rare in these true-crime stories.  As for St.  James and Alig themselves, their story (that of the Club Kids) is an  interesting account of a group's rise to stardom (local stardom, anyway)  and subsequent fall at their own hands.  In no way does this book tie their  experience to other events and attitudes prevalent during the 80's, in the  fashion that similar accounts try to relate the particular events to a  big-picture cultural Zeitgeist.  Truly a story made for &quot;Behind the  Music&quot; and &quot;E- True Hollywood Story&quot; fare.	2000-06-08
US	52851773	R2SB1F92ZPIPB5	0684853949	358452686	The Man Who Mistook His Wife For A Hat: And Other Clinical Tales	Books	3	42	51	N	N	Exists on 2 levels, one better than the other	This book could be read on two levels: in a clinical sense, with its million-dollar scientific terms and long winded, detailed description of methods and diagnoses; and in an anecdotal sense, as stories about quirky,  remarkable characters.  After reading a bit, I preferred to continue  reading with the latter approach in mind, and was distracted by the  clinical stuff.  I felt it really took away from the amazing stories  therein.  Additionally, Sacks was kind of self-aggrandizing, and didn't so  much place his patients as the book's center as he did himself, and his  assessment of their eccentricities.	2000-06-08
US	52851773	RAKF5C5Y4TPUU	0060179309	375514946	Blow: How a Small-Town Boy Made $100 Million With the Medellin Cocaine Cartel and Lost It All	Books	4	14	20	N	N	Vicarious But Safe Living Through George Jung	A well written account of, frankly, a self-serving jerk.  The story was fascinating, especially to one as naïve as me about the drug trade.  George Jung was amazingly adept at the cocaine business, was a shrewd businessman,  and was not so much of a megalomaniac as to bring about quite the downfall  that befell Carlos Lehder (his onetime mentor, then partner, then  deserter).  However, Jung abandoned his family, spiraled into paranoia and  drug addiction, and ended up [allegedly] broke.  The book does not have a  preachy tone, if you can look past Jung's quotes, and I think Porter did an  excellent job of writing a candid, interesting, and objective account.  Additionally, the book serves as a good primer into the drug trade in  general, beyond Jung's experience.	2000-06-07
US	52851773	R2630WUUDUNR92	0446673781	302948748	One L: The Turbulent True Story of a First Year at Harvard Law School	Books	1	17	27	N	N	Lighten Up	I didn't like this book when I read it at the beginning of law school, and I still feel the same way, now en route to graduate.  I suppose it's a testament to the book's staying power that I remember it some 3 years later, though that's not a good thing in this case.<br />I thought the book  was unnecessarily melodramatic, as if the author was trying to make sure  his law school experience read like a cliffhanger or shoot-'em-up  blockbuster, and that he kept the reader's attention despite the tale not  being that interesting to begin with.  Granted, getting called on in class  and vying for a law review position are mildly harrowing experiences, but I  imagine they aren't like being on the front line of combat in war, or  performing open heart surgery for 14 hours.  However, the author sets the  kind of tone to make you believe he equates the two.  Although I realize  law school isn't all laughs, I thought more levity would have been  appropriate, and I kept wanted the author to &quot;lighten up&quot;.	2000-03-23
US	52851773	RTRY6GTUZGDCE	0684833395	458864358	Catch-22	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Sublime	Fantastic.  A quirky and off-the-wall read.  Admittedly, the style took a little while to get used to, and I put it down a few times in the past until I had the patience to become accustomed to the stream of  consciousness nature.  Once I actually hunkered down and got into the book,  though, I was completely rewarded.  I have read no other book quite like  this, which I mean in the best possible way.<br />Don't expect to necessarily  retain much by way of a plot, or to remember all of the myriad of  characters that appear.  Do prepare to be thoroughly entertained, however.  The book is completely unique and hilarious, and is prophetic in the sense  that its humor still applies to readers today, some 40+ years later.	2000-03-23
US	52851773	R3C0RH0RP4KKIL	0679762108	709978746	The Sportswriter: Bascombe Trilogy (1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Pleasant and mildly thought-provoking	After reading the reviews posted herein, I am glad I read this book before Independence Day, because I was fond of The Sportswriter, and get the impression that its sequel outshines it.<br />I thought this book moved at exactly the right pace for what it aimed for, which is a man's  introspective look at his life lived thus far.  It reminded me of Updike's  Rabbit series, though I wouldn't put it quite so high as those  masterpieces.  I found all of The Sportswriter's characters and dialogue  completely believable, and not boring one bit, despite its surface level  dullness.  I think it is a testament to the author's skill to transform the  mundane into an interesting read, and Ford has a great descriptive touch  and attention to detail.  It also is powerful of him to so adeptly describe  the thought processes of the characters in a consistently realistic  fashion, especially considering that the majority of the book takes place  in the head of the narrator.	2000-03-14
US	52851773	R3UXVYRPB4I8WJ	006099486X	418849151	The Professor and the Madman: A Tale of Murder, Insanity, and the Making of The Oxford English Dictionary	Books	4	5	5	N	N	As Exciting As A Book About A Dictionary Can Get	An interesting, tightly written tale that seems to have distilled the most interesting elements of the OED's saga.  The Professor... reads like an adventure book, while in fact the subject matter is pretty much about word-trawling.  The book's frothy style and lighthearted tone probably  belie the amount of research that apparently went into this work, but make  it much more palatable to the reader.  This dictionary business is heavy  stuff, with men dedicating their entire existences to poring over  infinitesimal nuances of language, and it could potentially have made for  quite a dry read.  I enjoy Winchester's style very much, and found the book  educational and interesting without being too weighty.	2000-03-14
US	52851773	R18WJ4BLXX3X0H	0140249990	353580944	The Basketball Diaries	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Dig It (in the words of Jim)	A quick, hip read.  I am a slow reader, and yet wrapped this up in 2 days, both because of its interesting subject matter and its ease of reading.  Carroll is very slick, and certainly precocious, having done by age 14 the kinds of things that make grownups blush.  This book is worth a read just  for the language- Carroll has a fluid writing style that incorporates all  kind of street parlance, making for a kind of underground city primer for  the uninitiated square like me.	2000-03-14
US	52851773	R3NM3KGIC4VJ4	0679751319	190478568	Dead Man Walking: The Eyewitness Account Of The Death Penalty That Sparked a National Debate	Books	4	19	40	N	N	Well written, yet Prejean's sympathies are misplaced	I enjoyed this book very much in terms of its thought-provocation, although I disagreed with 99% of what Sister Helen Prejean said.  I felt her logic was flawed, and it upset me greatly that her sympathies were with  these reprehensible characters who had worked very hard to earn their spot  on death row.  Prejean waited four years after having lobbied for the  rights of death row prisoners before first starting a victims' rights  group, which to me suggests a confusion of priorities: how is it that an  individual feels sympathy with a convicted killer before she does with the  victims of such tragedy (i.e., the families)?<br />Throughout the story I felt  that Sister Prejean was wasting her time, and her abundant energies and  generous spirit could have been so much better spent on deserving, innocent  people in real need: for example, sick children, destitute people who have  not committed a murder, and refugees.  I realize that she has helped many  of those people throughout her life, but for every moment spent with a  convicted murderer, time was wasted that could have been spent with those  more deserving of this woman's care and concern.<br />I also felt that  Prejean was fooled by these prisoners, who showed apparent regret and  sympathy before her.  It didn't seem to me that they were sympathetic at  all for what they'd done, in particular Robert Willie.  Instead, the  prisoners felt more that they'd been dealt a raw deal, and only apologized  to the families at Prejean's continued prodding.  Anyone can muster the  façade of sympathy in front of a nun during their final days on this earth,  especially when they have no one else to talk to.<br />There is a lot of  philosophy proffered by Prejean in this book that left me with a bad taste  in my mouth, such as that the life of a condemned murderer is equal to that  of a murder victim, and that the former is of equal dignity and worthy of  equal protection.  What?  There are heaps more of that kind of liberal  nonsense.  Also, I found the statistics unconvincing, and leave with this:  though it may be unfair that the death penalty statistically ends up  harming the poor and minorities more often than other groups, if the  individuals really did commit the alleged murderous acts, their oppressed  social status or race doesn't make them any less guilty.  Despite what is  intimated by the recitation of such statistics, no one is pulling  minorities and the poor from their homes and executing them- murderers earn  the right to be put to death by their actions, and we shouldn't bemoan the  fact that an expensive lawyer and a prolonged series of trials, through  which an exonerating loophole can be found, is unavailable to themal  nonsense.  Also, I found the statistics unconvincing, and leave with this:   though it may be unfair that the death penalty statistically ends up  harming the poor and minorities more often than other groups, if the  individuals really did commit the alleged murderous acts, their oppressed  social status or race doesn't make them any less guilty.  Despite what is  intimated by the recitation of such statistics, no one is pulling  minorities and the poor from their homes and executing them- murderers earn  the right to be put to death by their actions, and we shouldn't bemoan the  fact that an expensive lawyer and a prolonged series of trials, through  which an exonerating loophole can be found, is unavailable to them	2000-01-19
