US	52852464	R1PEHRIKIOC977	0195072596	678161387	The Road to Disunion, Vol. 1: Secessionists at Bay, 1776-1854	Books	4	21	22	N	N	The social roots of politics	With a sharp eye and witty word for the setting, William Freehling delivers a sprawling and most satisfactory account of the antebellum South's queasy lurches towards secession. Contrary to the strained obfuscation of many histories bearing on the Civil War's causes, Freehling effortlessly restores slavery, and the social, cultural and political dilemmas it spawned, to the center of the story where it belongs. The second chapter is pure genius: the disjointed, patchwork nature of the antebellum South is vividly illustrated with an imagined overland journey from New Orleans to Charleston in the 1850s. Freehling describes the frustrating alternative routes one might have wished to take, the constant and comically inconvenient switches between independent railroads with incompatible gauges and timetables, their respective stations often miles apart. With an accomplished historian's power to simultaneously portray minute details and grand themes, the author sinks us into the setting--its pace, its weather, its sights and sounds. Gripped by this elegant evocation, we are then drawn into the book's purpose: an exploration of the uneasy social dynamics of different regions in the Old South, and how they bent and twisted its resulting ideologies and politics. How these, in turn, redounded upon each other and shaped the confrontations and compromises at the national level becomes the sturdy spine of the story, and Freehling never loses his keen appreciation for the place, people and material culture of the period.<br /><br />Many here have disparaged his writing style, and I understand what they are saying. For instance, try and decode the sentence that begins Chapter 21: \\"The first plotter Ashbel Smith inflamed Abel P. Upshur by naming was no famous London schemer.\\" Without having read the last sentence of Chapter 20, it seems to defy grammar. Time after time I found that certain sentences made sense only by repeating them with different stresses laid on different words. But after awhile, I found there was a sort of breezy conversational logic to it, and it occurred to me that if Freehling were reading his book aloud we would have no problem with his usage. But, of course, that is no way to write effectively, and I have taken a star off for an otherwise flawless slab of rich historiography.awhile, I found there was a sort of breezy conversational logic to it, and it occurred to me that if Freehling were reading his book aloud we would have no problem with his usage. But, of course, that is no way to write effectively, and I have taken a star off for an otherwise flawless slab of rich historiography.	2005-10-08
US	52852464	RRH6TXWQTM0S7	0521627249	141133925	Africa and Africans in the Making of the Atlantic World, 1400-1800 (Studies in Comparative World History)	Books	5	60	62	N	N	A bright candle in the dark	Issues of race have become central to American historiography in the past generation or so, and no modern historian of the American colonial era (or any other era afterwards, for that matter) can justifiably ignore its impact. Yet despite this, it is astonishing how little of the African political, social and cultural origins of New World slave populations is brought to bear on analyses of the Atlantic world. This relatively slim yet dazzlingly efficient book amply redresses this blind spot. In addition, the passivity customarily attributed to Africans is swept aside and replaced with a much more realistic and complex agency asserted on both sides of the Atlantic. It is truly astounding how much Thornton is able to cover in such detail within a mere 334 pages that include a rather general and theoretical introduction to Atlantic historiography with its roots in Fernand Braudel's pioneering \\"Annaliste\\" school of regional history, and an initial chapter on the birth of the modern Atlantic world as a whole (albeit with a recurrent focus on Africa's role).<br /><br />Aside from this initial placesetting, the book is divided into two parts--\\"Africans in Africa\\", and \\"Africans in the New World\\". In the first section, Thornton skillfully explores the impact of European-dominated Atlantic trade on west African societies and economies, deftly dissolving common myths as well as disassembling the more carefully constructed theories and assertions of several generations of earnest historians. For instance, Thornton solidly establishes that west African societies were not dependent on European textiles, iron or firearms, that the slave trade existed almost entirely at the behest of local elites, and that simple formulae of \\"guns for slaves\\" or economic imperialism do not adequately describe or explain what was going on. He also delineates the fundamental differences in what constituted \\"wealth\\" in Africa (people) and Europe (land, and later, capital), and one is struck at how these complementary conceptions so smoothly dovetailed to give birth to one of the most heinous and durable streams of atrocities humanity has ever generated. Those eager to assign culpability to one or another long-dead group will be frustrated, however--Thornton refrains from projecting our current attitudes, struggles and judgements onto their worlds, as any good historian should, even as he unflinchingly reconstructs the horrors endured by those who embarked on the \\"Middle Passage\\". This excellent study is neither apology nor indictment, neither accusation nor excuse.<br /><br />The second part focuses on the New World, surveying the lives of Africans--free, slave and maroon--in areas ranging from Brazil and Colombia, to the Caribbean and North America. Unfortunately, this section is fashioned as a refutation of scholars who assert, for a variety of reasons, that Africans were unable to successfully transfer, preserve and adapt African culture to the New World. For those (like me) who are already inclined to believe that Africans could and indeed did manage to do just that, many of Thornton's conclusions will be an unnecessary preaching to the choir. However, the theme nonetheless provides a decent scaffolding on which to present Thornton's wealth of knowledge concerning west African cultural groups, African military practices, the social evolution of slave communities and runaway societies, and, in particular, African religion and religious syntheses. In addition, he masterfully reconstructs the details of creolization, and delivers tantalizing glimpses into the complex interactions between Africans and Native American societies alongside their deeper and richer exchanges with Europeans.<br /><br />At the risk of repeating myself, I have to say that when I was finished with this book, I was amazed at how much I had learned--I rarely find this much crystal clear information, insight and analysis in books three times its size.these complementary conceptions so smoothly dovetailed to give birth to one of the most heinous and durable streams of atrocities humanity has ever generated. Those eager to assign culpability to one or another long-dead group will be frustrated, however--Thornton refrains from projecting our current attitudes, struggles and judgements onto their worlds, as any good historian should, even as he unflinchingly reconstructs the horrors endured by those who embarked on the \\"Middle Passage\\". This excellent study is neither apology nor indictment, neither accusation nor excuse. <br /> <br />The second part focuses on the New World, surveying the lives of Africans--free, slave and maroon--in areas ranging from Brazil and Colombia, to the Caribbean and North America. Unfortunately, this section is fashioned as a refutation of scholars who assert, for a variety of reasons, that Africans were unable to successfully transfer, preserve and adapt African culture to the New World. For those (like me) who are already inclined to believe that Africans could and indeed did manage to do just that, many of Thornton's conclusions will be an unnecessary preaching to the choir. However, the theme nonetheless provides a decent scaffolding on which to present Thornton's wealth of knowledge concerning west African cultural groups, African military practices, the social evolution of slave communities and runaway societies, and, in particular, African religion and religious syntheses. In addition, he masterfully reconstructs the details of creolization, and delivers tantalizing glimpses into the complex interactions between Africans and Native American societies alongside their deeper and richer exchanges with Europeans. <br /> <br />At the risk of repeating myself, I have to say that when I was finished with this book, I was amazed at how much I had learned--I rarely find this much crystal clear information, insight and analysis in books three times its size. <br />	2005-08-30
US	52852464	R2GGNPW6CVYOYQ	0521424607	483542648	The Middle Ground: Indians, Empires, and Republics in the Great Lakes Region, 1650-1815 (Studies in North American Indian History)	Books	5	26	29	N	N	Breaking new ground	Richard White should be awfully proud of himself. Using a close examination of a particular time in a particular place, he manages to open one's eyes to an entirely new way of thinking about the long term dynamics of human interaction that we call \\"history\\". Works like these are the fruit of all the painstaking hard work that American historians have been contributing over the last one or two generations. The studies of gender, environment, disease and race might seem like annoying \\"political correctness\\" to the close-minded, but when divorced from ideological polemics (pro or con) they have proven to be goldmines of fresh perspective. This book is an elegant example of what can be achieved when the primary evidence is reassessed in the light of this new spirit of inquiry.<br /><br />Amply supported by a wide selection of primary sources, White plunges into a detailed dissection of the course of history in what the French called the \\"Pays d'en haut\\"--the roughly triangular territory bounded by the Mississippi, the Ohio and the Great Lakes--from the establishment of French hegemony to the defeat of Tecumseh at the hands of the United States. Characters, landscape and events are vividly drawn, but underlying it all is White's astonishing theoretical angle: that the various participants--traders, chiefs, colonial officials, missionaries, prophets, warriors and women--were forced to continually construct the rules of a common game that their respective cultures and traditions were inadequate to navigate by themselves. Of course, neither Europeans or natives discarded their cultural baggage wholesale--rather, they raided each other's ideologies and practices for tools they could use for their own purposes, refashioning them into novel combinations and thus a new \\"culture\\". Under White's sharp lens, activities and categories which might seem unambiguous--\\"murder\\", \\"trade\\", \\"prostitute\\", \\"father\\", \\"metal tool\\"--are shown to actually be embedded in a kaleidoscopically shifting galaxy of symbols, mutually forged, mutually apprehended (and misapprehended) by the resourceful women and men of the \\"middle ground\\". White carefully traces the strategies of exploitation and survival mediated by French, Algonquin, British and Iroquois participation in this new world--scenes of sickening brutality, unexpected mercy and clever dealing merge with those of day-to-day business and coexistence in a vast mural that rings as true as any history I've yet encountered. I am eager to see how this brand of method and insight will be employed in other histories.fting galaxy of symbols, mutually forged, mutually apprehended (and misapprehended) by the resourceful women and men of the \\"middle ground\\". White carefully traces the strategies of exploitation and survival mediated by French, Algonquin, British and Iroquois participation in this new world--scenes of sickening brutality, unexpected mercy and clever dealing merge with those of day-to-day business and coexistence in a vast mural that rings as true as any history I've yet encountered. I am eager to see how this brand of method and insight will be employed in other histories. <br />	2005-02-03
US	52852464	R2APIPH0NM2XKZ	0142002100	356377311	American Colonies: The Settling of North America, Vol. 1	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Breathtaking scope, solid scholarship	Books like this are regrettably--but understandably--rare. Alan Taylor takes on the entire sweep of the human presence in North America up to the turn of the nineteenth century: from the earliest migrations across Beringia, to the European impact on Hawaii. It is astonishing how much he is able to include in a single, compact volume. While somewhat slanted toward an Anglo-centric account after the sixteenth century (for instance, the chapter on the West Indies from 1600-1700 is almost entirely about the British presence--Hispaniola and Cuba are completely ignored), it is only a moderate bias, admirably offset by his full and comparative accounts of the French in Canada and Louisiana, the Spanish in the southwest and California, and Russians in the northwest and Alaska. The tone of the writing, however, is exquisitely balanced and clean. In fact, the clear and efficient style is a pleasure to read, and chapter after chapter flows smoothly through the complexities and nuances of the latest and finest scholarship on the colonial era. American historians have truly brought their craft to a golden age of deep research, critical analysis and sound--yet astonishing--interpretation: Taylor's bibliography is a treasure chest of books I can't wait to read. He expertly weaves the most recent foci of American historiography--Atlantic studies, epidemiology, environmental history, pre-Columbian (and post-Columbian) archaeology, analyses of trade, demographics, gender roles, race, etc.--into the more familiar stories of explorers, empires, wars and migration. The whole story (or galaxy of stories) is thus given a structure and pattern that places what might have seemed to be arbitrary events into a tractable context. Perfect for the beginning pupil, this book is nonetheless eminently valuable for even the most well-read student of American history. It is perhaps too much to hope that the next volume in this series is as brilliantly done.	2005-01-22
US	52852464	RH8WUDZNNEQ2O	0375706364	123472120	Crucible of War: The Seven Years' War and the Fate of Empire in British North America, 1754-1766	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Couldn't put it down	I have to say that, while I am addicted to reading history, I've rarely found military history very interesting. Although it is dramatic in its tales of horror, brilliant gambles, cold calculation, inhuman cruelty, and heartbreaking self-sacrifice, military events nonetheless seem to me to be more often a symptom, rather than a cause, of human history. I feel the explanatory potential of military history is limited, sort of like the \\"sports pages\\" of history: wars usually confirm and rarely obstruct (and then only briefly) deeper demographic, economic, technological, social, political, cultural and even epidemiological processes. I have recently been prompted to reassess this bias of mine--Gabriel Kolko's eloquent description of modern war as history's fast-forward button, \\"telescoping\\" several decades' worth of social change into a few dozen months, first got me thinking that war might have a life of its own, especially when it unleashes events that neither side contemplated let alone predicted. Similarly, Niall Ferguson's location of the origins of modern public finance in the need for governments to quickly and massively finance wars is most intriguing. And then this massive tome comes along and storms another rampart of my prejudice against the relevance of war to the broad course of history. To be sure, despite what some have expected, this book is not a military history--even though much of its superbly frictionless writing is invested in detailed accounts of logistics, maneuvers, strategies, battles and generals. It is instead an examination of a war's effects on an imperial system, and Professor Anderson argues compellingly that this particular war (the Seven Years' War) was the decisive factor in the collapse of the British empire in North America. Thus, the French side of the war is virtually unexamined: while whole chapters are devoted to the intricacies and dynamics of Whitehall decision-making factions, there is not a single paragraph on French aims, the structure of the French political elite, or even Louis XV. But these would be distractions from the point of the book: that one must view Britain's loss of thirteen of its American colonies (what Americans call \\"the Revolution\\") from the vantage of an empire bloated, exhausted and strained by an unexpectedly long and expensive global war. Yes, the Stamp Act is given a great deal of attention compared to items of purely military interest. But that is precisely where Anderson wants us to focus, to see how the war's aftermath (economic depression, imperial financial crisis, conflicting expectations of the rewards and duties of 'empire', the sudden shriveling of Indian power west of the Appalachians) fostered irreconciliable trans-Atlantic differences culminating in rebellion.<br /><br />I have a lot of books I'd like to read. Normally, when I acquire a new book, I read the introduction to get a good idea what the book is like, and then put it on my list of books to get around to (its position on the list determined by how intrigued I am by the introduction). This one, however, refused to be relegated to the list, and I read its entire 850 or so pages (including the fascinating notes on, for example, the barbarity of British military discipline, or Boston's traditional Pope Day gangster brawls) in one long go. It never once even came close to bogging down.e structure of the French political elite, or even Louis XV. But these would be distractions from the point of the book: that one must view Britain's loss of thirteen of its American colonies (what Americans call \\"the Revolution\\") from the vantage of an empire bloated, exhausted and strained by an unexpectedly long and expensive global war. Yes, the Stamp Act is given a great deal of attention compared to items of purely military interest. But that is precisely where Anderson wants us to focus, to see how the war's aftermath (economic depression, imperial financial crisis, conflicting expectations of the rewards and duties of 'empire', the sudden shriveling of Indian power west of the Appalachians) fostered irreconciliable trans-Atlantic differences culminating in rebellion.    I have a lot of books I'd like to read. Normally, when I acquire a new book, I read the introduction to get a good idea what the book is like, and then put it on my list of books to get around to (its position on the list determined by how intrigued I am by the introduction). This one, however, refused to be relegated to the list, and I read its entire 850 or so pages (including the fascinating notes on, for example, the barbarity of British military discipline, or Boston's traditional Pope Day gangster brawls) in one long go. It never once even came close to bogging down.	2005-01-05
US	52852464	R25CK1NJRNGY3J	0521456908	142898577	Ecological Imperialism: The Biological Expansion of Europe, 900-1900 (Canto)	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Swarming across the seams of Pangaea	Always lively and perspicacious, this clever book seeks to solve a seemingly trivial puzzle: while historians have mustered a host of plausible explanations (weapons, diseases, horses, etc.) for why Europeans spread so thickly into North America, Australia, New Zealand and Argentina (the lands Crosby labels \\"Neo-Europes\\"), what could possibly explain why the dandelion did so as well? The question doesn't appear so innocuous when it is pointed out that not just the dandelion, but the European housefly, and feral pigs, and a horde of other weeds, pests, crops, diseases and livestock from Europe followed suit. Quite often these organisms, even the domesticated ones, raced ahead of European explorers themselves, rapidly proliferating into vast herds and stands that the settlers themselves could not fathom. Why was this so? Why didn't, say, Australian weeds, their seeds inadvertently shipped back to England, eventually carpet the meadows and fields of Europe? To answer this odd question, Professor Crosby begins his story with Pangaea--the great supercontinent that began to split apart about 200 million years ago into the continents we now have scattered about the globe. These \\"seams of Pangaea\\" then forced a radical divergence in the terrestrial flora and fauna of the planet, and set the stage for the equally radical convergence initiated when European mariners crossed these now mid-oceanic seams. Crosby details case after case in each category: weeds, pests, livestock, diseases and crops. He forcefully illustrates how sudden and overwhelming the ecosystem takeover was until the suspense is too much to bear. What is the answer? He drops clues every now and then, and the most explicit one is in the form of a quote that begins one of the final chapters: if weeds are to be defined as those organisms that thrive on the disturbances caused by humans, then humans themselves must be considered the primary weed of all. Here, then is the answer: all the opportunistic fellow-travelers of the European diaspora are exquisitely coadapted to the scale and pace of the continuous ecological disequilibrium characteristic of the Old World civilizations--and they, in turn, furthered and helped generate that very disequilibrium. Together--humans, horses, cattle, pigs, rats, clover, peaches, measles and, yes,  dandelions--comprised a potent self-replicating system, dimly discerned by its contemporaries, that could not be stopped once it spilled across the seams of Pangaea.lers of the European diaspora are exquisitely coadapted to the scale and pace of the continuous ecological disequilibrium characteristic of the Old World civilizations--and they, in turn, furthered and helped generate that very disequilibrium. Together--humans, horses, cattle, pigs, rats, clover, peaches, measles and, yes,  dandelions--comprised a potent self-replicating system, dimly discerned by its contemporaries, that could not be stopped once it spilled across the seams of Pangaea.	2004-09-30
US	52852464	R2C7FPO3NNL57N	0822957353	153214844	Slave Emancipation In Cuba: The Transition to Free Labor, 18601899 (Pitt Latin American Series)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Careful analysis of a complex process	Professor Scott makes exemplary scholarship look easy. Having just finished William Freehling's \\"Road to Disunion: Secessionists at Bay 1776-1854\\", a brilliant exposition of the  sociopolitical history of the U.S. antebellum South, I wanted to see how another nineteenth-century New World society, also heavily invested in slavery, ended the institution. I was gratified to find one of the most carefully written modern histories I have ever read. Using clear, direct prose, Scott effortlessly renders nineteenth-century Cuba's variegated social geography, its tortuous legal gymnastics, and the complicated social and racial tensions that determined the course of emancipation. In the process, she disassembles previous explanations of why Cuban slavery devolved as it did: for instance, she demonstrates that slavery was not antithetical to technological advancement or intensified capitalist organization of sugar production. Her detailed treatment of the role and nature of Chinese indentured labor--its relationship to slavery; the economic, ethnic and social dimensions of the opportunities it offered plantation owners and managers--comprises a breathtaking glimpse into the grim polyethnic logic of plantation profits in the New World, even as it demolishes theories that the presence of Chinese laborers reveals the fatal weaknesses of slave labor in Cuba. Indeed, one of the enduring themes of the period is the bewilderingly hybrid nature of Cuban plantation labor during the transition away from slavery. At any given sugar mill, one might encounter slaves (both African and Afro-Cuban), Chinese indentured laborers, autonomous gangs of Chinese contractors, prisoners, free wage-earners, tenant farmers and Spanish soldiers all breaking their backs to harvest and process the cane. One is also left with a clear picture of the dramatic geographic differences--the huge and technically advanced mills of Matanzas in the west, Havana's distinctly urban dynamic, the east's rebellious and racially mixed smallholders. Add to this the turbulent military and colonial contests that shaped, and were shaped by, the process of emancipation, and Professor Scott's achievement becomes even more astonishing. Throughout all this, she smoothly incorporates illuminating quantitative analysis (in the form of dozens of tables), and poignant personal dramas as slaves persistently participated in the processes that would determine their freedom.cially mixed smallholders. Add to this the turbulent military and colonial contests that shaped, and were shaped by, the process of emancipation, and Professor Scott's achievement becomes even more astonishing. Throughout all this, she smoothly incorporates illuminating quantitative analysis (in the form of dozens of tables), and poignant personal dramas as slaves persistently participated in the processes that would determine their freedom.	2004-09-16
US	52852464	R36YS2N0D7ULUQ	0299022943	50408054	Europe Emerges Transition Toward an Industrial World Wide Society, 1600-1750	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Absolutely required	Two decades ago, it occurred to me that the history of medieval Europe was singularly fascinating. From a very broad and rough perspective, it seems to me, the \\"ancient\\" world and the \\"modern\\", with their bureaucratically centralized states and relatively stable geographic configurations, have much more in common with each other than either of them have with the medieval European milieu, with its tangled tapestry of intersecting levels of power (the Church, the aristocracies, the royal dynasties, the towns, the monastic orders) and quixotically shifting political and ethnic borders. In this sense, it is a complicated fulcrum, pivoting civilization from the ancient empire to the modern nation state and world economy, and much of my reading has been an attempt to understand how this transition from ancient to modern worked. I should have started with this book. Reynold's provides an astonishingly complete picture of western Europe from the seventh to the eighteenth centuries, from the evolution of its basic geographic and ethnographic constraints and opportunities, to the transformations of power, technology and wealth that convulsed its patchwork of societies. In addition, he attempts a somewhat lower resolution, but just as ambitious inventory of conditions of the rest of the planet as it stood during Europe's breakout to transoceanic hegemony. Written forty years ago, it is striking to see just how nearly up-to-date he is on so many details of world history. Even more masterful is that he manages all this precocious breadth and accuracy in a work clearly directed to undergrads with little knowledge of history (there are no footnotes or references, centuries are referred to as, e.g., the \\"fifteen hundreds\\" rather than the \\"sixteenth century\\", etc.). Indeed, the writing style is breezy--almost conversational--and very often humorous. Eschewing theory for description, Reynolds nonetheless makes clear the various connections among phenomena such as trade fairs, the growth of towns, the spread of literacy, the power of the church--and a host of others. Unapologetically \\"eurocentric\\" (the subject, after all, is Europe), his treatment of non-European spheres is tantalizingly cursory and directed purely towards how they hindered or accommodated European expansion. In view of this, I was nevertheless struck by how closely his treatment of the rest of the world resembled other, much more recent, works explicitly designed as curatives to eurocentric approaches (such as Eric Wolf's brilliant \\"Europe and the People Without History\\"). If you are striving to grasp the \\"big picture\\" of medieval and early modern Europe, this book, despite its age, is an absolute--and immediate--requirement.wth of towns, the spread of literacy, the power of the church--and a host of others. Unapologetically \\"eurocentric\\" (the subject, after all, is Europe), his treatment of non-European spheres is tantalizingly cursory and directed purely towards how they hindered or accommodated European expansion. In view of this, I was nevertheless struck by how closely his treatment of the rest of the world resembled other, much more recent, works explicitly designed as curatives to eurocentric approaches (such as Eric Wolf's brilliant \\"Europe and the People Without History\\"). If you are striving to grasp the \\"big picture\\" of medieval and early modern Europe, this book, despite its age, is an absolute--and immediate--requirement.	2004-05-15
US	52852464	R1JPS36JDTVTIT	0852246439	634485285	Kingship and Unity: Scotland, 1000-1306 (New History of Scotland Series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Making History Fresh	This book is part of a series called a &quot;New History of Scotland&quot;, and Barrow is clearly at his best when he cleaves to the &quot;New History&quot; concept. This is when traditional political narrative is set aside in favor of a careful reconstruction of time and place and process. It's obvious that Barrow loves this approach: he draws on the mountains of documentary minutiae, and the statistical analyses they've spawned, on the odd foreign sources, on the archaeology, to present a sort of SimScotland in all its dynamic detail. When he feels forced to recount the political history, he is less comfortable, and the book drags terribly. It would have been nicer if he had been able to more clearly connect the story of power at the highest levels to the context he so exuberantly brings alive. His prose when describing &quot;life at the ground level&quot; is almost poetic; his style when relating the wars and intrigues of kings and earls is like the worst PowerPoint presentation you've ever had to sit through. At one point, it is completely incomprehensible. Fortunately, he has the good sense to keep those tedious passages to a minimum, and to focus on the &quot;new look&quot;. There is more than just reconstruction to this &quot;new history&quot;: its ultimate aim, I think, is to reveal historical processes, resolved in the finest detail available, from multiple perspectives. This engenders insight: for instance, it struck me, in the section on towns and burgesses, that these newly chartered towns (and also the new contemporaneous monastic communities) of the twelfth and thirteenth centuries can be seen as precursors to European colonialism--a sort of internal economic colonization. They were usually stocked with foreigners that had specialized skills and international trade contacts, and were created with the explicit goal of creating wealth for kings who were tired of the customary local tribute (how many cheese wheels, sacks of oats, and chickens does a king need?). I believe these were the initial steps toward the full-blown colonial mercantilism that emerged in western Europe four centuries later. The other effect of this &quot;new&quot; history is to reduce the distance between you and twelfth century Scotland--what you once thought of as olde and medieval is reworked so that one almost feels the issues and resources of the very living people of the time, and one can appreciate the dilemmas and choices they faced.need?). I believe these were the initial steps toward the full-blown colonial mercantilism that emerged in western Europe four centuries later. The other effect of this &quot;new&quot; history is to reduce the distance between you and twelfth century Scotland--what you once thought of as olde and medieval is reworked so that one almost feels the issues and resources of the very living people of the time, and one can appreciate the dilemmas and choices they faced.	2001-06-22
US	52852464	R3HTV3MCIBVJKV	1565922220	30873774	sendmail (Nutshell Handbook)	Books	1	9	10	N	N	The Worst Technical Book I've Ever Seen	This book is most definitely the worst technical book I have ever come in contact with--which is very surprising since O'Reilly usually has extremely high standards. If you are having any of the common problems with sendmail, you will *not* find the answer in this book. Rather, in your despair, you will torture yourself flipping vainly through its massive incomprehensible bulk--and flip you will, because the index is a useless atrocity. However, if you have no immediate problem to solve, and have a bottomless fascination with the endless intricacies of &quot;sendmail.cf&quot;, you will perhaps enjoy it. The book is nothing more than an exhaustive (and exhausting) reference to the configuration file. Good luck, though, finding any *particular* macro or option you are looking for. There is a pathetically feeble attempt made at a &quot;tutorial&quot; of sorts--but don't be fooled: the writers are much more interested in impressing rather than instructing. So, if you're having a particular problem or question with sendmail--maybe it won't relay, maybe it can't resolve an address, hell, maybe you just want to know how to get it to reread the config file--you'll get your answer in at least half the time if you *don't* have this book around to distract you.	2001-06-19
US	52852464	R3B1PBDU9Q1XIQ	052134770X	115357758	001: A History of the Crusades Vol. I: The First Crusade and the Foundations of the Kingdom of Jerusalem (Volume 1)	Books	4	55	62	N	N	A Direct and Efficient Account	Western Europe in the middle ages is often depicted as a static and insular social system--and, to be sure, certain aspects of medieval history support that impression. But the events described in this fine book challenge such portrayals, showing a Western Europe in the eleventh century that was intimately involved in the eastern Mediterranean. Runciman traces this interaction back to the Roman Empire, beginning his book with a charmingly concise yet informative history of Christian society in the East. We see how alert the West was to events in Asia Minor and the Levant: I was struck by how, a thousand years ago, tourism was such an important industry. Constantinople functioned almost as a modern-day theme park--with relics, art and architecture being the big-budget attractions--and as a crucial transportation hub along the pilgrimage route. The breakdown of this tourist industry due to local political instability--and its importance to the West--is what proximally prompted the Crusades. And in the Crusades themselves is reflected the dynamic nature of medieval political history; in particular we see the restless aspirations of the powerful Norman warlords (especially their somewhat disenfranchised younger sons) played out as a key military motor of the Crusades. Reading the background Runciman gives to the Normans (Christianized descendants of the Vikings), and the Seldjuks (Islamized descendants of Turkish nomads), I could not help but notice a certain loose symmetry to their stories, and it didn't seem so odd that they would meet at the interface of the two great Mediterranean faiths. There is much that I found eye-opening in the narrative: from the murderous anti-Jewish pogroms in Western Europe that the Crusaders used as warm-up exercises, to the pathetic lawlessness of their course through Hungary and Byzantium, to the Monty-Pythonesque absurdities of the &quot;medieval mind&quot; (e.g., the throng of German peasants led to the Crusades by &quot;a goose that had been inspired by God&quot;). As an aside, while this may seem to be a very male-oriented subject, in fact a female is probably the most important personality in Runciman's work: it relies most heavily on the account of Anna Comnena, the daughter of the Byzantine Emperor Alexius. Runciman repeatedly makes a passionate case for accepting her chronicle as the most trustworthy of the contemporary accounts, and uses it extensively in his reconstruction.had been inspired by God&quot;). As an aside, while this may seem to be a very male-oriented subject, in fact a female is probably the most important personality in Runciman's work: it relies most heavily on the account of Anna Comnena, the daughter of the Byzantine Emperor Alexius. Runciman repeatedly makes a passionate case for accepting her chronicle as the most trustworthy of the contemporary accounts, and uses it extensively in his reconstruction.	2000-10-14
US	52852464	R34OWJY1Z4UC4S	0674271815	559857429	The Evolution of Insect Mating Systems	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Exquisite Horror of Alien Beauty	When you use your imagination and envision insect evolution as a single, huge and ancient phenomenon--a monstrous morphing blossom endlessly ramifying through an infinite-dimensional phenotype space--you begin to understand it as a fierce and indomitable force of nature. And while many of its freakish aspects are standard fare in biology textbooks and nature documentaries--never failing to cause our vertebrate mandibles to gape in horror--the mating schemes of insects are seldom dwelt upon in presentations to layfolk. While this fat volume is not specifically aimed at the casually interested layperson, it is well within the grasp of the interested non-biologist--and I recommend it highly to anyone interested in insects or evolution. First, it is a thorough review of the evolutionary issues of insect sex. Unlike many scientific &quot;reviews&quot; which are highly skewed towards the author's own work, this book displays the authors' almost omniscient acquaintance with everyone's contributions to the field. But this book is not a taxonomy--every example of insect mating strategy is presented within an evolutionary context, and used to illustrate or nuance some adaptive principle or tradeoff. And if you thought insect defense, feeding, and social habits were weird--be prepared for an extreme excursion through what insect evolution is capable of--from &quot;traumatic insemination&quot; (where the male, circumventing the female's sperm-sequestering genitalia, rips through her side to deposit directly in her abdomen[!]); to parasitic flies homing in on noisy crickets to spray them with a cloud of slowly lethal maggots (illustrating the costs shouldered by conspicuously advertising males); to grossly immature male fig wasps, emerging extra early to inseminate virgin females before they have even awakened from their brood chambers; to the whimsical surrealism of insect genital morphology. Of course, not everything is nightmarish--there are the beautiful aerial acrobatic contests of territorial male butterflies; the complex game-theoretic calculus of nuptial gifts, the guarding of females, and female mate choice; the almost comical orthopteran [grasshopper/cricket/katydid] Kama Sutra on p. 312 (I need this on a poster or T-shirt!). And to see all this (copiously illustrated, by the way), not as individual wonders held up to amaze, but as part of an illumination of basic evolutionary principles is pure scientific elegance. Awesome.tests of territorial male butterflies; the complex game-theoretic calculus of nuptial gifts, the guarding of females, and female mate choice; the almost comical orthopteran [grasshopper/cricket/katydid] Kama Sutra on p. 312 (I need this on a poster or T-shirt!). And to see all this (copiously illustrated, by the way), not as individual wonders held up to amaze, but as part of an illumination of basic evolutionary principles is pure scientific elegance. Awesome.	2000-07-16
US	52852464	R1E818SL3V2YJI	0070120390	522852193	Emergency Medicine:  A Comprehensive Study Guide 5th Edition Companion Handbook	Books	5	10	41	N	N	Mandatory (This is a Review of the Companion Handbook)	Owning this book is simply mandatory--unless, of course, you are certain than neither you nor any loved one will ever need to be admitted to an emergency room. While I am by no means a physician, this thick little  paperback has allowed me to make an informed assessment of the treatment  that family members have received, and to make it easier for doctors and  nurses to explain things to me. Aimed (as you can see from the other  reviews here for the massive study guide for which this book is a  companion) totally for physicians, it is assumed that the reader is  familiar with medical terminology. But it isn't that bad, really--acronyms  are usually defined when they are first used in each section, and I have  found that a run-of-the-mill collegiate dictionary suffices for most of the  anatomic and diagnostic terms. A Physician's Desk Reference would be most  helpful for acquainting oneself with the drugs, dosages and regimens  referred to in the book, and it doesn't hurt to have someone in the medical  field you can query about procedures and policies. Basically, I see no  reason why such information needs to be confined to those in the  profession, and believe everyone should be aware of the mechanics of trauma  treatment. Also, I have simply found it to be fascinating reading (the  incredibly succinct description of the stages of child/adolescent  development--from the point of view of the assessing ED physician--says  more in two pages than all the oceans of ink that have been spilled--in  newspapers and magazines--on the topic of children in our society).	2000-07-16
US	52852464	R2RM7YINYWA7TQ	0465068871	617195415	The Reign of the Ayatollahs: Iran and the Islamic Revolution	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Sharply Focused Anatomy of a Revolution	This scholarly dissection of the Islamic Revolution in Iran is mostly concerned with its domestic issues. Iran's foreign affairs in this period are addressed only to the extent that they played important roles in  domestic power contests. So if you're looking for detailed accounts of the  American hostage crisis, the Rushdie affair, Iran-Contra, Iranian support  of the Lebanese Hezbollah, or even the Iran-Iraq war, you won't find them  here (although I think that reading this book will greatly enhance your  understanding of such accounts). Instead, you will find exhaustive  examination of internal struggles over land distribution, urban housing and  the nationalization of industry and agriculture. Not that Bakhash's concern  is solely economic--the book is primarily about political conflict: the  debates on the constitution, the factional infighting within the party and  the government, the endless polarization between &quot;moderates&quot; and  &quot;hardliners&quot;, the mystifyingly equivocal and minimalist  leadership provided by Khomaini. In fact, if there is one flaw in this book  (especially given its title), it is that Khomaini's behavior is left  unanalyzed and enigmatic in the extreme. No attempt is made to explain his  strange political moves: promoting and supporting moderates like Bani-Sadr,  and then agreeing publicly with their enemies; stirring up the radical  sentiments of the Majles (the legislature), while standing solidly behind  the conservative Council of Guardians that sytematically vetoed radical  economic legislation; encouraging those who sought diplomatic rapprochement  with the West, and simultaneously torpedoing their efforts without warning.  But this frustrating (though key) detraction aside, the book is very well  written and researched, and I found myself unable to put it down--it  elbowed aside every other book I was in the middle of reading, until it was  finished.<br />As an aside, this book strengthens my impression that  Hashemi-Rafsanjani (who was speaker of the Majles throughout most of the  period covered) has played a uniquely central role in post-revolution Iran.  We can only hope that someday Rafsanjani writes a full and frank memoir of  his experiences.-Rafsanjani (who was speaker of the Majles throughout most of the  period covered) has played a uniquely central role in post-revolution Iran.  We can only hope that someday Rafsanjani writes a full and frank memoir of  his experiences.	2000-07-16
US	52852464	R3P383LVEQMTPI	0897332385	231065240	The Borgias: The Rise and Fall of the Most Infamous Family in History	Books	4	10	10	N	N	The Maturity of Mediterranean Power	Many may not be aware that as a certain notorious Italian navigator stumbled upon and laid claim to a New World for his royal Spanish employers, a preternaturally powerful Spanish family (&quot;Borgia&quot; being an Italianized version of the clan's original &quot;Borja&quot;) was making a bid for dictatorial power in Italy. Michael Mallett does a professional job of detailing that family's rise to power, the context in which it occurred, its spectacular undoing, and the continued, albeit much more modest and obscure, fortune of its stay-at-home Spanish branch. Mallett begins with the setting in both time and space: an efficient rendition of the roots of the Rennaissance Papacy in the Great Schism of the fourteenth century, and its firm grounding in Italian princely politics in the fifteenth; a sketch of the Vatican and its practices in that era; and an almost futuristically post-apocalyptic walking tour of the anarchic and delapidated Papal States in the 1400's (my favorite part). The key role of the first powerful Borgia (Alonso/Pope Calixtus III) is detailed, although its significance to the big picture is only hinted at: it might be said that the instrumental part played by Alonso in erasing the Papacy's Great Schism was the fulcrum that levered the Borgias into the upper elite of Italy. His reward--nomination to the Cardinal college, and a career in Rome--launched him on his path to the Papal see, and planted the seeds for his family's aggrandizement. And, of course, the bloom was spectacular: Pope Alexander VI, Lucrezia and Cesare are the legendary characters of Machiavellian fables and visions of Italian Rennaissance high-life. Although Mallett takes pains not to wallow in glib scandal, it is interesting to note that his story cannot avoid lurid scenes of murder, illicit sex, and an exploitation of Church power so cynical that it borders on blasphemy. No amount of balanced historiography can clean the stains even five centuries later. But this book also presents less graphic aspects--at one point Mallett carefully reconstructs daily routine in the Papal household, right down to the amount of mutton purchased for Shrove Tuesday in 1502 (673 lbs) and the provision of eggs (they were provided by a chicken-keeper on the premises). Some may find this detail tiresome, but I found it almost heart-warming; and perhaps an indication that what we see as endless high-stakes power struggles were really just episodes of crisis and strain interspersed among longer periods of more sedate and orderly Mediterranean humdrum.nts less graphic aspects--at one point Mallett carefully reconstructs daily routine in the Papal household, right down to the amount of mutton purchased for Shrove Tuesday in 1502 (673 lbs) and the provision of eggs (they were provided by a chicken-keeper on the premises). Some may find this detail tiresome, but I found it almost heart-warming; and perhaps an indication that what we see as endless high-stakes power struggles were really just episodes of crisis and strain interspersed among longer periods of more sedate and orderly Mediterranean humdrum.	2000-07-06
US	52852464	R1BK8A4O7HLW3Y	0226702669	276417279	The Shape of Life: Genes, Development, and the Evolution of Animal Form	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Strangely Difficult, but Impressive &amp; Rewarding	It took me awhile to get through this book--I probably read it twice by the time I was finished. This was because I found myself rereading nearly every paragraph as I progressed. I still have no clue why it was such hard  slogging--while Raff makes little concession to the layman, the material is  pretty much similar to what one finds in the &quot;News &amp; Reviews&quot;  section of a Nature magazine, something I'm pretty familiar with. While he  has a slight tendency to be indirect and abstract in his choice of words  now and then, it is nothing glaring or overly annoying. Truth is I just  don't know why I found it so difficult. But I stuck with it, and there is a  good reason: Raff's remarkable detailed command of nearly every aspect of  modern biology is nothing short of awesome. And it has to be, for his  purpose is to weave disparate, highly technical and entrenched realms of  biological study (genetics, cladistics, embryology, paleontology, molecular  biology, and evolutionary theory, to name the main strains) into a unified  tapestry of understanding. Raff aims at providing a launching pad for such  cross-disciplinary synthesis, and I believe he more than succeeds. His  inital stabs at theory in this new arena are sound, I believe--he  successfully questions the primacy of heterochrony as an explanatory  principle of developmental evolution, and forcefully suggests developmental  modularity as a deeper source of insight. For instance, Raff identifies the  phylotypic Bauplan of organisms with a period of maximum module  inter-connectivity in development. He coins the term &quot;developmental  hourglass&quot; to convey the concept--both early and late development in  embryos have greater developmental flexibility (due to relatively fewer  interactions between developmental modules) compared to a constraining  mid-developmental &quot;waist&quot; where the phylotype is laid down during  organogenesis.<br />Did you just have to read that twice to get it?	2000-07-05
US	52852464	R2XDCZDBIFXQ6W	0394703871	952432599	Bismarck: The Man and Statesman	Books	5	48	50	N	N	A First Rate Classic Historical Biography	A.J.P. Taylor adheres to his typically excellent style and delivers this keen critical biography of the man who made modern Europe. If you expect fawning portraits, or gossip-laden scandal, stay clear of Taylor--but at  the same time do not fear dry recitation of dates and events. Taylor is a  master of his subject matter and knows precisely which details advance his  critical wit. No distractions, no tangents, no sermons--Bismarck's  political career is the focus, and the ultimate aim is to assess his aims,  identify both his failures and successes, and to explain their shape as  works springing from the flawed mind of a political genius. As usual with  Taylor, little is slack is given to either Bismarck or his adversaries, and  each parties' motives are cynically weighed and found contradictory, petty  or blind. And, also per usual, Taylor is quick to reveal the absurd quirks  of the political elite, and how they impinged on the course of events.  Taylor provides an excellent, London-Underground-styled map to the roiling  tangle of scheme and intrigue characteristic of nineteenth-century European  diplomacy, charts Bismarck's course through it, and deftly shows how its  fundamental structure was reformulated by him. Taylor has sometimes been  accused of being anti-German, and, in rare moments, he seems to imply the  existence of deep flaws in the &quot;national character&quot; of Germany  throughout history. But here I was surprised to find Taylor asserting the  presence of an instinctive commitment to peace, stability and tranquility  in Germany's greatest statesman. This book is essential to an understanding  of Germany, Europe and both World Wars. As well as, of course, Otto Von  Bismarck.	2000-06-20
US	52852464	RJJGP4ROTT153	0813328624	403023101	A History Of Cambodia: Second Edition, Updated	Books	4	35	41	N	N	A Respectable Showing--Too Bad It's The Only One	The coverage in this book is genuinely refreshing: from dim origins of the various ethnic and linguistic groups of Indochina; through the fascinating but frustratingly scant data on pre-Angkorean times; to the glory of Angkor  itself; and then into the welcome light of more ample documentation, be it  Chinese, European, Siamese or Vietnamese; and finally, of course,  colonization, modern war, and the staggering horror of the Khmer Rouge. I  believe that history--all history--is the mother of insight, and Chandler's  work serves to bolster this opinion. Even the pre-Angkorean  chapters--which, as I noted, are cursed by a paucity of evidence--fired my  mind: I am now fascinated by the &quot;indianization&quot; of Southeast  Asia that occurred in the first millenium AD. It struck me that it was one  of the few times where a civilization spread its culture in a big way  without either much violence or emigration. [Are there parallels with the  contemporary global spread of American culture? True, American ascendance  has not been without a torrent of violence--as amply recounted in this  book--but I would submit that force has, if anything, hindered rather than  advanced the adoption of American cultural norms.] This book is also a  welcome antidote to the myriad histories of Southeast Asia that treat all  the events before European colonization as the merest of preambles. We  learn, for instance, that well before Cambodia became a disposable pawn in  bloody post-war neo-imperialist games, it was long an important prize in a  previous bipolar arena of gruesome geopolitical struggle--that between  Vietnam and Siam in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. Thus the  tragedy of modern Cambodia does not lie in Western, patronizing visions of  the Cambodians as innocent children, but rather in the story of a wordly  civilization that had endured and survived so many depradations from  outsiders, only to all but self-destruct in our own time.	2000-06-03
US	52852464	R2VEQL0FBB5LLE	0060110856	171649850	Europe Between Revolutions, 1815-1848	Books	2	8	9	N	N	Quick, Cursory Review for Those Who Already Know	This is one of those brief reviews that pretty much assumes you are already familiar with what it covers. As such, do not expect to be introduced to the basic outlines of the history of Europe between 1815 and  1848. Rather, expect to be subjected to a barrage of obscure (to me) names  that are simply mentioned without any explanation: do you know who Charles  Dunoyer is? How about Pellegrino Rossi? Nikolaus Becker? Armand Carrell?  These and many dozen others that I had never heard of are quickly  exhibited, perhaps with a handful of words to describe them, and then never  referred to again. This is ostensibly done to provide illustrative examples  of some trend or school of thought the author is addressing--which, of  course, is made no less mysterious. Since the focus here is on the  development of social and political ideas, no matter how evanescent, the  names usually pertain to the editor of some radical or reactionary European  journal, or to some pioneering university professor. In the same manner,  events are mentioned but never described--the reader must already know. The  sensation is one of overhearing a cocktail-party conversation between  experts in nineteenth-century European history. There are, of course,  helpful nuggets to be gleaned now and then; and the general intellectual  feel of the age comes through, as thinkers of all stripes attempted to  interpret the upheavals of the French Revolution, and engage, with varying  degrees of reluctance, the demands of modernism. But the thinkers, and  their thoughts, are only cursorily sketched. All in all, a frustrating read  for someone needing an introduction to the subject.	2000-05-27
US	52852464	R2CTLRMU9DLKKN	0521629438	338360436	The Rise and Fall of the Plantation Complex: Essays in Atlantic History (Studies in Comparative World History)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Illuminating dissection of the embryonic &quot;global economy.&quot;	Despite being laced with annoying typos (this is from Cambridge Univ. Press?), I found the substance of the book to be most informative. The slave-labor sugar/cotton/tobacco plantation is a familar feature of early modern history, and is usually encountered in regional histories of, say,  the Caribbean, or Brazil, or the United States. But this book traces the  &quot;plantation complex&quot; from its beginnings in the eastern  Mediterranean, on Cyprus, through its spread across the Atlantic, to its  final last gasps in this century. People who are used to thinking of  &quot;slave plantations&quot; exclusively in the context of the United  States will be disappointed. For reasons explained by the author, his  primary focus is on the sugar plantations of the New World--these tended to  be purer examples of the phenomenon. He also spends a good deal of time  analyzing the impact on African societies and economies; material which I  found especially instructive. The account of the stepwise demise of slavery  in Brazil was also very enlightening, especially how emancipation became an  economic opportunity for entire classes of slaveholding plantation owners  in the 1870's, similar to &quot;mass layoffs&quot; today. I think this book  is crucial to understanding where the &quot;New World&quot; stands  today--racially, economically and socially. You just have to ignore the  typos.	2000-05-19
US	52852464	R2RIAX0L1WMPRK	0198812701	514638110	The Struggle for Mastery in Europe: 1848-1918 (Oxford History of Modern Europe)	Books	5	10	13	N	N	A masterpiece	This is A.J.P. Taylor's masterpiece of history. Taylor is an exquisite writer, with a unique style that cannot resist the irony and contradictions inherent in the actual fabric of European diplomacy. This sprawling tale of folly and pretension is informed by Taylor's exhaustive reading of the  official foreign affairs correspondence of the respective nations involved,  as well as his own mastery of modern European history. His prose is  consistently edged with wit on the verge of sarcasm, always keen to the  absurd roots of tragedy. For Taylor there are no sacred cows: every class,  every institution, every political party, even cynicism itself, fumbles in  the dark, toiling under the weight of its illusions and contradictions. One  does not emerge from this book with an enhanced respect for statesmen,  generals or revolutionaries. This is one of the few history books I plan on  reading at least twice.	2000-05-19
US	52852464	R33LJ8GKNGBJK8	0674644840	235817770	Origins of the Modern Mind: Three Stages in the Evolution of Culture and Cognition	Books	5	14	18	N	N	Earnest, Learned and Valiant Effort	Although I didn't finish this book altogether convinced (nor altogether unconvinced) of his schema for human cognitive evolution, I was nonetheless very pleased and very grateful for Merlin Donald's clear and thorough  review of the facts. Donald carefully sorts through the wealth of  anthropological, paleontological, physiological, linguistic, and, most  intriguingly, cognitive-psychological data, to separate the real clues from  the red herrings. He expertly demonstrates the complexity and nuances of  the evidence, while at the same time building his outline of a theory of  the emergence of human consciousness. While I found this theory somewhat  hazy and incomplete, particularly with respect to the &quot;mimetic&quot;  stage he posits for H. erectus, it is quite acceptable in the spirit in  which it is given: a tentative suggestion of what a plausible origins  scenario must look like. From this perspective, his thoughts are most  valuable, and by necessity provoke the reader to ruminate on the  bewildering array of issues the author navigates so expertly. Merlin Donald  does not adopt the strident, advocative tone that so many big-picture human  evolution theorists do--rather, he lets the steady buildup of evidence and  counter-evidence show you how he arrived at his ideas. The book is a dated,  but still glittering, treasure of references and findings in the fields of  linguistics, anthropology, and animal and human cognition--I have used it  quite a few times simply to remind myself--and others--of the strange but  true, and of how things don't always conform to the wished-for pattern. For  instance, Donald's wonderful and almost touching account of &quot;Brother  John&quot;, a paroxysmal aphasic, is a perfect rejoinder to anyone who  equates &quot;language&quot; with &quot;intelligence&quot;.	2000-05-18
US	52852464	R2BNGRNTPXYBGT	0520080971	256356364	Peasants and King in Burgundy: Agrarian Foundations of French Absolutism (California Series on Social Choice and Political Economy)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Extremely, I mean *extremely*, well-written	The thing about this book is that it's an exquisite example of clear, precise and economical writing (unlike this review). Each sentence is necessary, advancing or supporting the main arguments of the book; it never wanders or belabors. In fact, it is so carefully crafted that it became  distracting: I would stop and reread a passage several times just to marvel  at the writing, no lie. What's it about? Well, I'm no expert in French  history, but Hilton Root (Social science, Univ. of Pennsylvania) undermines  prevailing ideological interpretations of the Ancien Regime (i.e., that the  state was a tool of the capitalist class, that communal peasant  institutions, representing a precapitalist resistance, were the target of  this state-bourgeois combination, or that the state was an agent of  modernization). His main point is that the state (the Crown government  established by Louis XIV) was an independent actor, looking out for its own  interests, which very often coincided with those of the peasant villages.  In fact, because these villages were the fiscal bedrock of the Crown, the  central government's provincial bureaucrats (the intendants) sought to  actually preserve and strengthen the communal prerogatives of the  peasantry. He also shows that these communal institutions were not always  egalitarian in their effects, and were not necessarily antithetical to the  operation of the market. As I said, the author admirably presents his  thesis and evidence, most of which is based on a detailed reading of the  legal documents and correspondence of Burgundy in the period 1661-1793.  [How's that for a bookworm's gig? Hanging out in the wine country, poking  through the archives--I think I could be up for that.] I had no idea, for  instance, that a landslide of lawsuits brought by the villages against  their nobility, suits often instigated and supported by the Crown,  foreshadowed the Revolution by about forty years; he shows that the  language, legal theory and goals of these suits were almost identical to  that of the Revolution. The lawyers themselves were later to figure  prominently. He brings it all together by showing, in his final chapter  entitled &quot;Financing the French Revolution,&quot; that the  Revolutionary government faced the same dilemmas as the Crown had vis-a-vis  the rural villages, and ultimately used the same fiscal and administrative  techniques. All in all, an excellent read. Even if you're not interested in  French history, or European state-building, or the roots of capitalism, the  book is worth it simply as an example of how to write well.of these suits were almost identical to  that of the Revolution. The lawyers themselves were later to figure  prominently. He brings it all together by showing, in his final chapter  entitled &quot;Financing the French Revolution,&quot; that the  Revolutionary government faced the same dilemmas as the Crown had vis-a-vis  the rural villages, and ultimately used the same fiscal and administrative  techniques. All in all, an excellent read. Even if you're not interested in  French history, or European state-building, or the roots of capitalism, the  book is worth it simply as an example of how to write well.	2000-05-16
US	52852464	R8HI0P2NNYHTA	0631166211	998843283	Challenging Chomsky: The Generative Garden Game	Books	5	8	8	N	N	An Intricate Jewelled Instructional Toy	For anyone even mildly interested in linguistics, this book is a unique delight. It is a primer on modern linguistics, disguised as a playful examination of Noam Chomsky's mind, disguised as a collection of whimsical  fables. In it, Chomsky (the father of modern linguistics, reigning from his  perch at MIT) is presented as the omnipotent 'Master of the Maze,'  vanquishing all who challenge his hegemony of the 'Generative Garden.' At  its surface, the book poses as an instructional tour of 'the Maze' for you,  the hopeful but naive young warrior who dares to match wits with the  Master. At each fork in the road, a dire warning is given in the form of a  tale of some long-ago warrior that met an untimely end on the spot. The  traps and distractions are revealed, the blind alleys and sudden drops are  marked. Alternating with these second-person italicized passages of  alliterative whimsy is a parallel, more serious, discussion of Chomsky's  linguistic edifice of theory and argument. Here, the forks in the road are  represented as a series of conceptual distinctions that Chomsky has applied  to the topic over the decades since his seminal &quot;Syntactic  Structures&quot; was printed. These are beautifully succinct and hone in  like scalpels to the essential issues. And then, before your eyes glaze  over, its back to the Garden Game and the words of wisdom to those who  dare. Most of the major conflicts (as of the time of its writing, i.e.,  1989) are humorously portrayed, although I'd bet some of the participants  would take issue with Botha's judgement of victory for Chomsky in their  case. Amusingly, Botha's own minor run-in with the Master (or his fans) is  depicted discreetly as almost a non-event beneath the notice of Chomsky.  Basically, this is a work of pure love and devotion to the author's chosen  field of study, delivered as a left-handed tribute to the intellectual  giant who made it all possible.<br />P.S. -- For those of you who are mostly  familiar with Chomsky's political writings, I commend this book as a small  grain of salt to be prudently kept handy.Chomsky's political writings, I commend this book as a small  grain of salt to be prudently kept handy.	2000-05-08
US	52852464	R1SMJUVEYS12WU	0802063691	205615400	Constantine and the Conversion of Europe (MART: The Medieval Academy Reprints for Teaching)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Brief but informative	This small, well-written volume does an admirable job of recreating the volatility of the theological-political cusp which the Roman empire found itself in the early 4th century. The primary instigator of this momentous  transition, the Emperor Constantine, is rendered in a balanced, but  somewhat muted, portrait. Beginning with an excellent explication of the  root causes of Roman social and political difficulties in the 3rd century,  Jones focuses quickly on the religious milieu of the times. In a few  well-crafted paragraphs, he clearly illustrates Christianity's parallels  and divergences from the other contemporary popular cults. This is combined  with a somewhat bland recounting of Constantine's path to power and  reasoned speculation concerning his famous pre-Malvian &quot;vision,&quot;  acceptance or rejection of which will largely depend on personal taste.  Sounds good to me, though. Where the book really shines, though, is in its  detailed portrayal of the bitter fractious disputes within the Church, and  how they mercilessly frustrated Constantine's wish for theocratic unity.  Seventeen centuries later, the Emperor's rage and consternation are still  fresh in his letters.	2000-05-06
US	52852464	R23CG5QLDY013Y	0226580830	533767801	The Evolutionary Biology of Plants	Books	4	39	42	N	N	A good start--but much is missing	The rarity of up-to-date general surveys on this topic makes this a valuable book, but I think a better job could have been done. It starts out in a promising way, with an excellent introduction to the issues and problems of evolution from the perspective of plant biology, and I found this to be the most enlightening section of the book. The writing at that point is clear and purposeful. However, things start ramping down from there. Plant evolution is dealt with in a piecemeal fashion: certain topics, notably the author's own concern with the evolution of morphology, are treated at length; other, equally important, topics, e.g., symbioses, are skipped almost entirely (there is not a single word on the evolution of mycorrhizal or nitrogen-fixation symbiosis, and very little about the various angiosperm-insect symbioses). Interactions with diseases, parasites and herbivores are virtually ignored. This seriously detracts from the book's clear intent to sketch the &quot;big picture&quot; in plant evolution, and the author's increasingly complicated and disconnected prose does not help matters. But for someone thirsting for knowledge on plant evolution, the book provides plenty of things to think about, and the ample bibliography points the way to more.	1998-04-07
US	52852464	R1SREB4OIXEXLR	067972849X	450814447	Cannibals and Kings: Origins of Cultures	Books	5	52	52	N	N	The &quot;cultural materialist&quot; classic.	Marvin Harris is one of those writers that it's almost impossible to disagree with, while you are reading him. Later, when you've put down his book, and you're trying to recap his points, they seem simplistic and muddy. So you pick up the book again and, there they are, all his arguments and evidence, as clear and convincing as ever. I think this has to a lot to do with the sheer quality of his writing, as well as the fact that he is someone who has spent the better part of his life studying, teaching, and observing human culture. His themes are broad, and sweep over the entirety of human cultural evolution. Harris is convinced of the primacy of humankind's ecological roles and modes in shaping human culture. He explains warfare, the state, the male superiority complex, food taboos, industrialism, plant and animal domestication, cannibalism--all in terms of the productive and demographic imperatives of human life throughout the past several thousand years. His basic argument is presented as a cycle: when the going is good, human populations expand. But as population pressures increase, the current method of obtaining energy and protein from the environment must be intensified. This intensification, however, comes at the price of diminishing returns for time invested. Sooner or later a crisis is reached. The humans in question must either restrict their population growth (primarily through infanticide, abortion or contraception), or up the technological ante and find a new way of exploiting their environment. And so civilization ratchets onward, increasing the level of time spent on subsistence, sharpening the hierarchies of power, bringing cities, and prisons, and slavery, and bosses, etc. Along the way, various cultural oddities can be explained as responses to material tradeoffs. But no mere description of Marvin Harris' writing does him justice. Read the book.	1998-01-29
US	52852464	R1Q02KHC0336GW	0195002571	720036959	The Politics of the Prussian Army: 1640-1945	Books	5	14	14	N	N	An important book for those who wish to understand Germany	This book is a close look at the political role of the Prussian army in German society. It is heavily skewed towards covering the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, and I wish more had been devoted to the seventeenth and eighteenth (this period occupies only the first 20% of the book). But that aside, what it *does* choose to cover, it covers well. Professor Craig teases apart the various determinants of the Prussian army's historical behavior--the Junker social origins, the political relationship with the crown, the ideological and pedagogical atavisms, the institutional and technological innovations, and, ultimately, the Prussian army's forceful veto power over the historical aspirations of the German masses. This book cannot be ignored by anyone curious about the course of German history.	1998-01-29
US	52852464	R15XJ9RHP7GFI9	0517037017	767079821	Illustrated Encyclopedia of Pterosaurs (A Salamander book)	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Beautifully illustrated, indepth and thorough examination	This is not a &quot;kid's book,&quot; although I would not hesitate to give it to any child seriously interested in Mesozoic life. The illustrations--beautiful color paintings and detailed charcoal sketches--are superb, top-of-the-line examples of reconstruction. The text is an exhaustive survey of the history of pterosaur finds, the taxonomy of pterosaurs, and an up-to-date review of their evolution, biomechanics and ecology. The painstaking descriptions of representative fossils some may find tedious (like I said, NOT a &quot;children's book&quot;), but I found it refreshing to read a mass-market, beautifully rendered reference that wasn't afraid to expose the general reader to the details of paleontology. In this, it is one of a kind, really, the &quot;Encyclopedia of Dinosaurs,&quot; from the same publisher, coming close. Now, Mr. Publisher, how about a third volume covering the marine &quot;reptiles&quot; of the Mesozoic? I would purchase it in a heartbeat.	1998-01-27
US	52852464	R3HTASVJJZ493B	0521336694	126405834	The Terrestrial Invasion: An Ecophysiological Approach to the Origins of Land Animals (Cambridge Studies in Ecology)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A thorough airing of the physiological problems	The title of this book is a little misleading, as if the book dealt with a single &quot;terrestrial invasion,&quot; most likely the invasion of the land by vertebrates. In fact, the book focuses on more recent invasions--by snails and crabs and sandfleas--where the data is more plentiful, and only a single chapter addresses the vertebrate story. A thorough examination of the osmoregulatory issues involved in land colonization occupies much of the first half of the book. The author also spends a good deal of time on the microclimates of tide pools, estuaries, beaches, salt marshes, rivers, etc., to get a feel for the problems and opportunities faced by small organisms at the edge of land and water. His thoughts on the vertebrate case are somewhat iconoclastic--he eschews the popularly held notion of drying ponds forcing aquatic creatures up onto land, preferring instead to look closely at the conditions in certain very stagnant, anoxic, flooded swamps in present-day South America. He makes a good case that the adaptations of the creatures inhabiting these swamps (the Chaco in Paraguay, I believe) hold the key to understanding the preadaptations to terrestrial life among vertebrates. In short, the &quot;ecophysiological approach&quot; of the title is sound, illuminating and refreshing.	1998-01-23
US	52852464	R3B9VIAJGN7N4M	0671732919	189151045	Intifada: The Palestinian Uprising--Israel's Third Front	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A thoughtful critique of Israeli and Palestinian leadership.	The writing (or translating) in this book is forceful, evocative, concise and superb. The criticisms of both Israeli leadership (Labor and Likud), and Palestinian leadership (the PLO and Hamas), during the intifada, are sharp razors of analysis. The book is somewhat out-of-date, and I would love to see an update--not only on the subsequent course of events, but also on what more is known (if anything) about the time period covered by the book (1987-1991). It is, however, enlightening to view the current &quot;peace process&quot; in the light of the authors' predictions, especially that Israel would soon be casting about for someone--anyone--to take the business of micro-governing Gaza and the West Bank off its hands.	1998-01-22
US	52852464	R1NM9RFZHPKBDA	0195018060	806740538	The Shape of European History	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Slim, perfectly readable, gem by W.H. McNeill.	This spare little book is a sweeping survey of the &quot;big picture&quot; of about three millenia of European history. The themes are so wide that it verges on a natural history of the humans that have occupied Europe over this period. But broad-stroked sketches, in the hands of a master, can reveal more than they obscure, can be works of great beauty, and can start one thinking about the essentials that emerge from the welter of detail.	1998-01-22
US	52852464	R21PF05M0LSAE3	019285139X	851330537	A History of the Vikings (Oxford Monographs in International Law)	Books	4	57	57	N	N	A Comprehensive, Satisfying Survey	A clearly written, well-organized review of the full range of Viking history, from dim origins to far flung diaspora, to gradual fade. The story of the Greenland colony's disappearance is bone-chilling: like a subtle horror story, or a disturbing anxiety dream about neglect and loss. The mystery of it, and the other-worldly setting, raised the hairs on my spine. The book is an ample exploration of the entire gamut of Viking history, and strives to redress some of the demonization that has traditionally beset Vikings in history, presenting the archaeological evidence (such as it was in the late 60's--which is to say, not bad) alongside the contemporary accounts (including the fascinating diary entries of Arab travelers). Much of Viking history is a puzzle, so one must bear with some of the writer's detective work regarding placenames, dates, saga deconstruction and principal actors; but it helps to know the basis of the author's conclusions--where the firm ground is, and which claims are more or less tacit. The footnotes and bibliography are extensive and helpful.	1998-01-13
US	52852464	R2WCGQPNPUWIBB	0801490790	914978051	Egypt and the Fertile Crescent, 1516–1922: A Political History	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Essential for understanding the Middle East	I just finished reading it. This book is absolutely necessary for anyone wishing to comprehend the current situation in the Middle East. It is also a good book for anyone interested in the internal mechanisms of the Ottoman empire. The book jumps back and forth between the three geographical areas under consideration: Egypt, the western Fertile Crescent (what is now Syria, Lebanon, Jordan and Palestine/Israel), and the eastern Fertile Crescent (Iraq, basically), covering the period of Ottoman rule and more recent European domination. It is well written, concise and serves to draw out the larger patterns involved: the weird twilight zone of Ottoman politics (imagine an empire where frequent, bloody wars between provinces are the accepted norm), the characteristic bipolar &quot;gangland&quot; power distribution among local rulers, the role of Upper Egypt in sustaining local resistance to imperial power, the anarchy of Lebanon, the role of the Hajj (the annual Moslem pilgrimage to Mecca) as a political football, the genesis of nationalism. The endless back-and-forth of tribal and faction politics can get somewhat tedious at points, but I would rather have this level of detail than a distant glossing of events. Some random topics of interest: the Wahabbis--fanatic and militaristic founders of Saudi Arabia in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries; the brief appearance of Napoleon Bonaparte; Muhammad Ali, the Macedonian from Albania who became the nineteenth century icon of Egyptian nationalism; the conquest of Egypt by British accountants; in the introduction, a very handy synopsis of Islamic history leading up to the sixteenth century. All in all, I highly recommend it.	1997-12-31
US	52852464	R37XDJOHRJJC25	0521376165	338360436	The Rise and Fall of the Plantation Complex: Essays in Atlantic History (Studies in Comparative World History)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Illuminating dissection of the embryonic &quot;global economy.&quot;	Despite being laced with annoying typos (this is from Cambridge Univ. Press?), I found the substance of the book to be most informative. The slave-labor sugar/cotton/tobacco plantation is a familar feature of early modern history, and is usually encountered in regional histories of, say, the Caribbean, or Brazil, or the United States. But this book traces the &quot;plantation complex&quot; from its beginnings in the eastern Mediterranean, on Cyprus, through its spread across the Atlantic, and its final last gasps in this century. People who are used to thinking of &quot;slave plantations&quot; exclusively in the context of the United States will be disappointed. For reasons explained by the author, his primary focus is on the sugar plantations of the New World--these tended to be purer examples of the phenomenon. He also spends a good deal of time analyzing the impact on African societies and economies; material which I found especially instructive. The account of the stepwise demise of slavery in Brazil was also very enlightening, especially how emancipation became an economic opportunity for entire classes of slaveholding plantation owners in the 1870's, similar to &quot;mass layoffs&quot; today. I think this book is crucial to understanding where the &quot;New World&quot; stands today--racially, economically and socially. You just have to ignore the typos.	1997-11-21
