US	52859312	R1CSVQL67TKGBE	0878406301	863737525	Careers in International Affairs	Books	4	29	30	N	N	Better Than I Expected	I expected this book to be an overview of the international affairs field, but it proved to be much more.  The careers and paths available are well-written and -described, and there are a number of careers that, although not obvious, suit people with an interest in international affairs well.  In addition, companies, government organizations, and NGO's that employ people in international affairs are listed along with contact information.  It's a well-rounded book that is honest about both the upsides and downsides of each career.	2003-05-02
US	52859312	R3GJYZWDYK2C56	1556523750	591073256	Backyard Ballistics: Build Potato Cannons, Paper Match Rockets, Cincinnati Fire Kites, Tennis Ball Mortars, and More Dynamite Devices	Books	4	59	62	N	N	Great Collection for Overgrown Boys	This book is a wonderful resource for those boys who have graduated from Nerf and waterguns- and for those of us that never will.  What struck me most was the sheer variety of projects in this book- from little rockets powered by a match(!) to monster potato guns, this book has everything.  I built a potato gun similar to the one in this book several years ago, and have been looking for projects in the same vein.  With this book, I've found them.  I especially love the fact that he uses a variety of power sources- the traditional hair spray of the potato gun, air pressure, even chemical combustion.<br />One of the unique things about this book, as compared to other similar books, is the emphasis on both safety and history.  Safety is important for obvious reasons.  But most readers are enthusiasts about this sort of stuff, and the history lessons are exciting.<br />My only complaint is that there is no room in this book for any sort of modification to the designs.  For example, there are formulas that can be used to determine the maximum chamber size for a PVC-constructed potato gun, and with this, you can design your own potato gun in relative safety.  Unfortunately, the author insists that you stick strictly to his designs.  This appears to be an effort to ensure that all of the \\"toys\\" created with his book are safe, so that's only a minor complaint.<br />Can't wait to start lobbing tennis balls!	2003-04-29
US	52859312	R1KOES9NBS0GWZ	0517149826	435338741	The History of Freemasonry: Its Legendary Origins	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Values and Beliefs, Not History	This is a beautiful book, and wonderful- if you recognize it as what it is.  It is a collection of myths about the origins of Freemasonry, not a factual history.  It does what all of our myths of our origins do- illustrate the principles and ideas we believe in.  Many of the legends presented within are, in fact, unverifiable- such as the one that posits that Masonic secrets were hidden within pillars that survived the biblical Great Flood.<br />In fact, it is this legendary quality that makes this book so useful.  Rather than an interesting historical review, this book can serve as a reference guide, both to our beliefs and our ideals.	2003-04-29
US	52859312	R2F4CI6DJF84PB	0764548816	588280752	Linux?+ Certification Bible	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Helpful but tough going	My first impression when I opened up the book was that there was a LOT of material covered here.  You should be ready to concentrate whenever you study, but to wade through this book, you really have to focus.<br />That said, it's an excellent guide.  The author has four CompTIA certifications, including this one, so he should know what he's talking about.  It states that it should be the &quot;only book or course you need to prepare for and pass CompTIA's Linux+ Certification exam&quot;, but I would doubt that claim, as it's never wise to use a single source.  However, if it is possible, this is probably that book.<br />The book is extremely well-organized.  Right after the preface, before the Table of Contents, is a well-organized description of how the book is organized.  Behind that is a description of how each chapter is structured, and then a description of how to use the book most effectively- although with its layout, it would be difficult to do otherwise.  There are two TOC's- one is simple, and the other is more detailed.<br />As a testament to the book's thoroughness, the entire General Public License (GPL) is printed in the front of the book, just so you know EXACTLY what you are talking about.  24 different flavors are discussed in some detail.  There are no less than FOUR pages of FTP switches and commands, and four of SMB/CIFS switches and commands- which they recommend you memorize each and every one of.  Just about every topic is covered in this kind of detail.  I'm rather surprised they could pack it all into 600-some pages.  In fact, my biggest complaint is that there is so much detail it's hard to determine what you need to know- unless you want to memorize the entire book.<br />There is also a CD-ROM included with the book, which isn't surprising for a certification book.  However, the author's thoroughness didn't stop with the book.  The entire book is contained in PDF format on the CD, as well as the GPL in a separate file, and some software besides.  The practice exam isn't a surprise, although it is high quality.  It uses the Bosun engine, and the questions are well-written.  However, I'm concerned that the author is overly focused on switches for the various commands, and the test questions also focus on this.  I'm not convinced that the actual CompTIA exam reflects this.  There's also a variety of Linux software on there, including an entire copy of Apache and Phat Linux- a distro designed to run on Windows-based computers without needing to repartition.  Not only a surprise, but a very good choice of flavor.<br />Overall, a complex book with lots of information that will take a long time to cover, especially if you heed their warning to know every switch they list- which is a lot.  But if there is a one-stop-shop for Linux+, this may be it.	2003-04-25
US	52859312	R3A4KVLXCULMOT	1565656296	360132888	Conversationally Speaking: Tested New Ways to Increase Your Personal and Social Effectiveness	Books	4	17	20	N	N	Easy and Helpful	If you have problems starting conversations or keeping them going, this is a very helpful book.  However, it's not a panacea- to improve your conversational skill you'll have to practice.<br />Each section describes a single &quot;issue&quot;, such as the basics of effective listening, or how to follow up on information you learn during a conversation.  None of it will make you gasp and realize that's the hidden key, but it serves as a useful discussion of why each issue is important.  Integrated into the discussion are instructions on how to use it in your day-to-day life.<br />Since none of the ideas are much more than fairly well-known components of interpersonal conversation, most of your learning from this book won't come from reading.  However, if you follow the author's suggestions and read one section, then practice it for a day, it really is useful.	2003-04-25
US	52859312	RE5G19P231ZJ0	0345413377	731430286	The Amber Spyglass (His Dark Materials, Book 3)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Unique and Refreshing	I have to admit from the start that I've never read Paradise Lost.  After reading this trilogy, though, I think I'm going to.  Pullman's take on the war between Heaven and Hell is refreshing, and made me rethink a number of closely-held beliefs.  I was very impressed with this book- it keeps up the action and suspense of the first two books, but doesn't keep telling the same story.  It covers new ground and expands its scope without becoming totally bizarre, like so many books do several books into the series.  This is one of the few series I've read that kept getting better and better the further I went.  This book has all of the makings of a true epic, even the bittersweet end (think Lord of the Rings, Narnia Cycle, or Prydain Chronicles).	2002-01-10
US	52859312	R1RXPEIX2I08V2	0895267853	184633403	The Machiavellians: Defenders of Freedom	Books	3	9	20	N	N	Review of Conservative Political Philosophy	I think it's interesting that the above reviewer feels that Burnham has no axe to grind.  A quick review of most of Burnham's other works will quickly reveal his personal philosophy.  This book is a very good review of several politically-conservative writers (Dante, Machiavelli, Mosca, Sorel, Michels, and Pareto), and yes, several of them are political scientists.  Most of the recent writers do attempt to be objective, but there are several prominent liberal political scientists who can back their work with numbers, as well.<br /> This is a good review of the beforementioned writers' works.  It can be dry and dull at times, but it is a work of philosophy and occasionally statistical science, so this is to be expected.  Where the book begins to break down is in the last section, where Burnham's views begin to be expressed in his own words.  He begins a tirade against anyone who doesn't agree with his opinions, and declares the triumph of Machiavellism (one gets the feeling that he considers himself a Machiavellian, and has grouped in with himself any writer whose views he happens to agree with; there is not necessarily much cohesion between the various writers included) much the way a schoolboy would declare himself &quot;king of the mountain&quot;.  His &quot;science&quot; is rarely backed up, and his &quot;philosophy&quot; is poorly thought out.  That said, I happen to agree with the worldview that most of these writers share, and they are vigorous scholars.  This book is definitely worth reading if you are interested in conservative political philosophy, or are interested in the writing of one of more of the writers mentioned.	2001-02-17
US	52859312	R1LZ418AED9ZBA	1559703385	38361766	Memoir in Two Voices	Books	2	4	7	N	N	A Window on Their Conversation	This book is written in the format of a conversation between two friends, Francois Mitterand (former President of France) and Elie Wiezel (Nobel laureate).  This format makes for easy reading, but tends to gloss over hard discussion of the interesting issues.  On the upside, it rolls along very quickly, at the pace of conversation.<br /> I had serious problems with this book.  Both the dialogue and the concept of this book are incredibly arrogant.  The supposed &quot;conversation&quot; has the air of a Doonesbury cartoon, with Gary Trudeau lampooning political figures-- except the authors do it to themselves.  It is arrogant also because the authors presume that readers care about their opinions on everything outside of their specialty.  Who cares about Mitterand's opinions on religion, Nature and childhood, except as they relate to his specialty (politics)?  What makes his opinions on these subjects any more interesting than mine?  He tends to oscillate between banality and a forced profundity.  He tells readers that \\"courage isn't the absence of fear; it's being able to dominate your fear.\\"  True, undoubtedly; but common knowledge, commonly expressed.  If this is the best he can do, this book should have been circular-filed by the publisher.<br /> The format also contributes to this.  The few times they stumble onto something profound, like the importance of names to a culture, they stumble right back off it.  Wiezel is generally more profound in his musings-- of course, his reputation and living have been made by seeing deeper trends and implications in society.  It is a shame, if only for this reason, that the book focusses on Mitterand.  When discussing religion, Wiezel notes, &quot;I can remember the first time I failed to put on the phylacteries. . . For me it was terrible, because I was so devout.  But the world did not collapse under my feet.  And yet, I had been convinced that if I committed such an act I would be struck down on the spot.&quot;<br /> Bothauthors point out that they've never been psychoanalyzed.  Perhaps this is the impetus behind the book.  Mitterand was near death when this project was completed, and tells readers that he wishes to be understood.  The authors know each other well, which makes for much more interesting reading because the interviewer knows what questions to ask.  The downside is that some questions whose answers are already known to the interviewer but unknown to the reader may not be asked.  Therefore, we need aperceptive and intelligent interviewer, which we luckily find in Wiezel.<br /> The two obviously go over well-trod ground.  This means that they don't explain their thoughts very well, knowing that the other understands it.  This book could have used a good editor to say, \\"I don't understand this thought.\\"  At one point Mitterand says that &quot;I'm interested in the kinds of questions religions pose . . . Fundamentally, I admit the existence of a principle, and of an explanation, but my mind falters at the forms of the explanation.&quot;<br /> There were some interesting points in the book, but they were mostly incidental.  For instance, for those who didn't already know, a strong pro-Israeli bent can be detected in Mitterand.  Some of the \\"forward school\\" thinking about war that Mitterand displays in his dismissal of retreat in war characterized strategic thinking in France before WWI.  The statement \\"peevishness, however, has never been a substitute for rage\\" could be straight out of Tushman's Guns of August.<br /> The book does improve if you can get through the first chapter.  The chapter on faith is better than the one on childhood, and the chapter on war is better still.  The book is disingenuous, though, as Mitterand paints himself not as a human being, but as a saint forced to negotiate in this world.  Sad, really, because he is an interesting, complex character, who stood in a unique position during a number of historical events.  Ultimately, books can be found about all of the topics they cover that are much more interesting, in-depth, and profound.<br /> After chapters on such topics as childhood and the meaning of faith, Mitterand says \\"I believe we should be strictly professional and talk only about what we know.\\"  This would have been a much better book if he had done so.	2000-10-16
US	52859312	R1Y3BTS9RSA04B	0486296024	424288287	Common Sense (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	An Important Piece of Revolutionary Literature	This little pamphlet isn't the most important piece of Revolutionary literature.  It does, however, capture the flavor and feel of the revolutionary sentiment in the colonies.  It was a popular piece of literature, and helped fuel this feeling as well.  Its assault on the English monarchy and the possibility of a reconciliation are telling.  Adding to this is the temerity of the author: that America could win in a war with Great Britain was seen as unlikely, no matter what the author said, and by publishing this tract he committed treason against the Crown, punishable by death.<BR> This edition is good, although there is not much to differentiate it from most.  It is cheap, attractive, and easy to read, and an effort was made to keep with the original italics, capitalization, and spelling.	2000-10-16
US	52859312	R9H8DVPEK3XFN	0452010853	252490098	The Germans	Books	5	41	41	N	N	Is Bonn Weimar?	Written in 1982, before the Berlin Wall fell or the Cold War ended, this question is the essential one of the book.  It often sits in the background, undisturbed, but it is always present.  What Craig means by this is, will West Germany turn out to be a failed experiment in democracy, as the Weimar Republic did?<br /> Although we can assume fairly safely that it will not (the conclusion Craig came to as well), this is a marvelous and fascinating book.  Craig is a diplomatic historian by profession, and in any study of European politics, the underpinnings and history of Germany have to play an important role.  The book is organized by topic, beginning with a three-chapter brief history.  The second part has chapters on religion, money, relations with Jews, sexual relations, educational relations, literature, the military, and the unique situation of Berlin, among others.  It even has an appendix on &quot;The Awful German Language&quot;.  The chapter on Berlin in particular was fascinating, although if that is your interest, I would recommend Faust's Metropolis: A History of Berlin by Alexandra Richie.<br /> This is an excellent book.  I originally picked it up because of my deep respect for the author (see my review of Force and Statecraft: Diplomatic Problems of Our Time) and my fascination with all things foreign.  I didn't put it down for any length of time until I finished.  Perhaps the best way to understand the German phenomenon short of living in Germany.	2000-10-12
US	52859312	R1R0LTKCOGG30X	0297840002	686890355	The Future of the Great Powers: Predictions	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Pocket-Sized Powerhouse	The Future of the Great Powers is one book in a series called Predictions, a series in which experts give their prognosis of the future.  The couldn't have picked a better author for this one; Joffe is one of the most respected oracles for the fates of the great powers.  I bought this book based on his articles in Foreign Affairs, &quot;Bismarck or Britain: Toward an American Grand Strategy&quot;, and &quot;How America Does It&quot;.  I was not disappointed.<br /> To be honest, I was a little disappointed when I first saw the book due to its short length: just over 50 pages.  However, Joffe seems to need only these few pages to make his points.  In this book, he gives his opinion on the nature of the international order, discusses various competing ideas about the future internatinal order, and explains why, in his opinion, the United States will not face a hostile coalition arrayed against it.  Granted, the argument isn't much different from the one he puts forth in Foreign Affairs...	2000-10-05
US	52859312	R3O69JFQU13OGK	0934742529	945585365	Diplomacy	Books	3	19	19	N	N	An Inside View . . .	. . . Of a complex and important profession.  Sir Harold Nicolson's book, originally published near the beginning of WWII, filled a large gap for several decades.  Many books have been written on statecraft, and even a few on the tactics used in statecraft and diplomacy, but never (since Castiglioni's Art of the Courier during the Renaissance) had a book been written on how to be a good diplomat.<br /> The book begins with a short history of the development of modern diplomacy, and then moves on to discuss recent changes and factors in modern diplomacy and to compare diplomacy as practiced by different countries.  In reality, this is a handbook for new and aspiring diplomats, as it covers such things as the day-to-day duties of a junior secretary and how to perform them, diplomatic jargon, and proper use of diplomatic techniques.<br /> For the conduct of foreign policy, I would recommend Chas. Freeman's more recent book Arts of Power.  However, there is still nothing, outside of official government handbooks, that describes the inner functionings of a diplomat's life so well as Nicolson's book.	2000-09-21
US	52859312	R3V5TAP3MPDHAI	1568360223	600103002	The Great Game: The Struggle for Empire in Central Asia (Kodansha Globe)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Kipling's Kim-- but real!	After reading The Great Game, I now officially count myself among  Hopkirk's many fans.  Fast-moving and very exciting, it's hard sometimes to  remember that you're reading a history book and not an adventure novel.  Despite the fast pace and zoom-in focus, however, there is never any doubt  as to whether Hopkirk is stretching the facts or just making them up to  fill in holes in the story.  Despite meticulous research, there are  occasionally questions without answers.  Peter Hopkirk makes no attempt to  cover these up or to pass rumors off as fact.  Hopkirk gives us a load of  maps, accurate but drawn in such a way as look like the maps that the  characters in the book would have seen.  The effect is to draw us further  in as it informs us.  He also gives us enough of the strategic picture to  make the individual adventures meaningful without slowing down the pace one  bit.  All in all, I would rank this book near the top of my list of either  adventure novels or history books.	2000-09-06
US	52859312	R3LNQJF9RH4O7M	034538623X	484061988	The Guns of August (Modern Library 100 Best Nonfiction Books)	Books	4	13	16	N	N	Beautiful, Dramatic Prose	It's hard, upon reading this book, not to get swept up in Barbara Tuchman's stunning prose.  It begins with the words &quot;so gorgeous was  the spectacle on the May morning of 1910 when nine kings rode in the  funeral of Edward VII of England that the crowd, waiting in hushed and  black-clad awe, could not keep back gasps of admiration.&quot;  The rest of  the book continues to read like an adventure novel.  It's a shame, really,  because it should be remembered that these events really happened, and  deserve careful consideration.<BR> The classic image of WWI is that of  trench warfare, with the machine guns pinning down entire armies.  As  Tuchman reminds us, however, the first month of the war was a war of  maneuver, undertaken at a breathtaking pace that presages the blitzkreig of  WWII.  Field artillery ruled as the omnipotent weapon of the battlefield,  and the war came close to being a one-month struggle between France and  Germany.<BR> Watching this epic battle unfold, it's hard to remember that  we already know how the story ends.  I sat in suspense wondering if the  British would rejoin the line, and bit my fingernails over whether Paris  would fall.  My only complaint is that I was expecting more of an analysis  of the causes of WWI.  There are endless volumes on the causes of the Great  War, however, and the adventure novel that Tuchman gives us is a precious  gem.	2000-08-25
US	52859312	R5IIR904S1BPE	1878379658	642831556	Arts of Power: Statecraft and Diplomacy (Cross-Cultural Negotiation Books)	Books	5	38	43	N	N	Excellent, Practical Handbook on Statecraft	Although this book contains only 140 pages of text, Freeman has managed to pack a lot of useful information into it.  Its focus is on the practical application of statecraft.  To quote Freeman, &quot;statecraft is concerned  with the application of the power of the state to other states and peoples.   Diplomacy applies this power by persuasive appeals short of war.&quot;  In  other words, diplomacy is but one tool of statecraft.  What makes this book  rare is that the author is a career foreign service officer, in a bureau  where the preservation of peace at any cost is often paramount.  It is  unusual at best to hear anyone from the Department of State to discuss the  usefulness of the application of force or intelligence to international  relations.<BR> Arts of Power falls somewhere between the books of  international theory and those social psychology books which are full of  common-sense, yet contradictory aphorisms-- and it succeeds where the  others fail.  With a few exceptions, no decent practical guide to the  application of statecraft has been written in centuries.  Freeman has  corrected this error, and in spades.	2000-07-05
US	52859312	R2ZT7N33A6UC5N	0691023360	640858224	Guerrillas and Revolution in Latin America	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Hard Look at a Hard Topic	Revolution is a hard topic to write about, at least in any sort of useful, scientific fashion.  Problems start with defining revolution and thus deciding what events to include, but they certainly don't end there.   Wickham-Crowley never shies away from making clear, well-deliniated  definitions, even if it means including or excluding controversial events.   This alone makes this book a useful addition to the literature of  revolution.<BR> The author confines his study to revolution in Latin  America, but this hardly confines him; Wickham-Crowley studies nearly a  dozen revolutions, and could easily have included a dozen more.  Indeed,  despite, or perhaps because, this is a narrow, scientific study,  Wickham-Crowley's observations on revolution can easily be applied to  revolutions around the world and throughout history.  Readers will be  struck, for example, by the similarity of these revolutions to, say, the  French Revolution or the Iranian.<BR> Be prepared for a dense read.  This  book is full of charts, graphs and statistics, and much of the book  consists of a statistical analysis of such factors as the age of  revolutionaries and revolutionary leaders, social class, and level of  education.  Although this is precisely what makes this difficult to read,  however, it is also what gives the book so much validity and usefulness.	2000-06-28
US	52859312	R2NOAGUVPNTNC0	0441478123	101055477	The Left Hand of Darkness	Books	4	19	23	N	N	A Great Story and a Question of Human Sexuality	Left Hand of Darkness is one of those books that draws you in and makes you forget it is only a story, a work of the author's imagination.  But, as the Gethens say, Truth is a Matter of the Imagination, and in fact, Le  Guin's imagination reveals a lot of truths about us.<BR> Le Guin declares  this book to be a thought-experiment, meaning that it is an exploration of  an issue conducted by setting it in a story and letting it run: in this  case, to find out what effect sexuality has on our social relations.  On  one level this experiment fails, because Le Guin herself points out  another, more plausible, reason for their social organization and lack of  war: the climate.  As Genly Ai tells us, the marginal people, the ones  struggling to survive, cannot afford to mobilize for war.  In fact, this  same situation occurs on Earth amongst those that Ai calls &quot;the  marginal peoples.&quot;  In their interpersonal relations, their emotions  and their expression, however, Le Guin makes a convincing case for the  influence of sexual roles.<BR> But it's also fun to read.  This is a  fascinating book to read, and the tale is sensually and subtly crafted.   The characters are real and complex, and besides the other-worldly setting,  there is nothing to disrupt the reader's suspension of disbelief.  The  ultimate test for a novel, however, is whether, after reading it, we look  at our world in a different light.  Left Hand of Darkness passes with  flying colors.	2000-06-28
US	52859312	R1Q1O7N8TWMSN1	0394700449	963431051	The Anatomy of Revolution	Books	3	23	31	N	N	Good Writing but Sloppy Scholarship	The Anatomy of Revolution is a great book, but Brinton does a dangerous thing: he fails to define revolution.  This leads him to include the American Revolution, which many historians and theorists of revolution do  not consider a revolution at all.  Indeed, it is difficult to write a  useful book if your readers do not know, exactly, what your observations  refer to: do these observations hold true for a coup d'etat, for example?  Without  defining revolution, Brinton leaves us wondering what his book does and  does not appply to.<br /> This book examines four events: the French,  Russian, English and American Revolutions.  Of the four, two are  controversial, the American and British Revolutions.  While the  observations mostly dovetail with the more scientific literature on  revolution and are presented in an interesting and readable format, a  careful reader will be struck by how many of the comments refer only to the  French and Russian revolutions, while noting that the British and American  revolutions were \\"exceptions\\".<br /> With its faults, this book  ends up being more a historical case study rather than a study of  revolution.  It's observations are no less useful for that, however, and  for those new to the field, Brinton's book makes for a readable and  survivable introduction; something not to be underestimated.	2000-06-28
US	52859312	RM7JEPZFRA0LX	0917974573	754609298	Mandragola	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A Great Translation of an Often-Overlooked Work	Machiavelli is best known for his treatises on political action, most notably Il Principe.  Most readers don't realize he was also a playwright, however, and an accomplished one.  Mandragola is one of his best plays.<br />  One of the themes that runs through all of Machiavelli's works is the art  of the crafty assault, and it is present here in spades.  His greatest  respect is for the man behind the puppet, and in this case it is Ligurio.  The plot has already been outlined in a previous review, so it will not be  discussed here, but the primary purpose of the plot is to develop the  intricate artifice that Ligurio uses to help his friend Callimaco.<br /> The  translation here is great also.  At some points the translation interferes  with the meter, but this is rare; most of the play flows along very  naturally.  The language is clear and easy to read, and yet Flaumenhaft,  the translator, captures the essence of such difficult words as virtu,  animo, and remedio without losing any of their meaning.  Alternate meanings  are often given in the footnotes.<br /> This is an excellent play, and the  translation more than holds up its end.  For those who appreciate the use  of strategem, want a more thorough understanding of Machiavelli, or simply  want to read a great play, this is a wonderful book.	2000-05-31
US	52859312	RN7R87DCU4P3M	0688128165	978667155	Influence: The Psychology of Persuasion	Books	5	21	22	N	N	A Social Psych Book We Can Use	It's nice to finally find a book on social psychology that is actually useful.  Most books that purport to teach you something about social influence are full of obvious rules such as &quot;don't be rude to people  without reason&quot; or contradict themselves.  This one doesn't.<br /> This  book is primarily a study of psychological compliance-- what causes a  person to agree to something they normally wouldn't.  Cialdini rushes to  explain that the techniques explained here aren't a panacea, something that  elevated him in my mind-- this wasn't an &quot;unbeatable control over  everyone you meet&quot; book.  It's well-supported with references to both  real-world situations and psychological experiments, and the author  explains in great detail not only how the techniques are used, but also why  they work and how to counteract them.<br /> What I found most interesting,  however, is how many of the same compliance techniques Cialdini uses to get  us to accept his ideas.  For instance, this book is written as a guide for  the victims of compliance techniques: us (Cialdini goes to great lengths to  include himself in this group, using the techniques of similarity and  cooperation).  This is enhanced even more by his consistent use of the word  &quot;us&quot;-- he wants us to think of him as one of us, because it  increases compliance: in this case, acceptance of the book.<br /> This comes  off as more amusing and instructive than anything else, because it really  is a well-written and interesting book, with all sorts of helpful  information in it.  Probably the best book in the field.	2000-05-25
US	52859312	RPI11FIQ161S6	0876091982	984720517	The Reluctant Sheriff: The United States After the Cold War	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A Realist in Sheep's Clothing	No matter that Richard N. Haass is the Director of Foreign Policy Studies, a think tank with a moderate leftist reputation.  He may cloak his words in liberal rhetoric, but the ideas he presents belong firmly to the Realist  camp.  For instance, he argues that the United States, while remaining a  member of the UN and using it for our purposes, should not allow the UN to  dominate us.  Ideas originating in the Realist camp abound in this book.<br />  The basic premise of this book, wonderfully supported, is that the United  States should, as the title implies, conduct foreign policy &quot;by  posse&quot;.  Whenever possible, the United States should engage our allies  (or others when appropriate) in pursuing our objectives, but we should not  allow the need for agreement to prevent us from pursuing those objectives  important to us.  A prime example would be the Persian Gulf War: President  Bush devoted an extraordinary amount of time and effort into building the  international coalition which defeated Iraq, but he also stated that if  need be, the United States would stand alone.<br /> Another important idea  Haass writes about is that of the &quot;deregulated&quot; world.  With the  end of the Cold War, many of the restraints imposed by the superpowers have  been removed as well.  We can expect to see all of the smaller conflicts  suppressed during the Cold War to come bubbling back to the surface.  This  increase in the sheer number of conflicts is going to pose problems for the  United States, particularly if they are handled in a haphazard or  irrational way.  Here his Realist side peeks out from under the sheepskin  again: he tells us that the United States must decide whether to intervene  guided not by moral concerns or the dictates of the UN, but based on a  rational evaluation of whether it would serve American interests.<br /> This  is an excellent book covering the general world state that American  policymakers face today.  I almost gave this book four stars out of spite:  I didn't want it to end.stars out of spite:  I didn't want it to end.	2000-05-16
US	52859312	R3KJ1PBVEZQ11P	0130372501	898988362	Arco American Foreign Service Officer Exam (Arco Civil Service Test Tutor)	Books	2	85	88	N	N	Once Useful, Now Outdated	It's mainly useful for giving you an idea what to study, what basic ideas are on the exam, and what you need to bone up on.  The most useful and timely section is the English expression section-- what the State  Department is looking for in written communication doesn't change much.<br />  However, much of the rest of the book is outdated, and useful only in  identifying broad study areas.  The section on the oral exam is  particularly outdated, as the oral exam changes format and focus every few  years, and the book has failed to change with it.  Today, the oral exam is  so different that I wondered if ARCO was even writing about the same exam.   However, given changes in the formation of policy and the role of foreign  service officers, even the written exam is much different than the one  presented in this book.<br /> There are only two factors saving this book from  a single star: the fact that it can be useful in determining what areas you  are weak in and need to focus study on, and that it is the only book out  dealing with this exam.  You would be better off studying independently,  based on the materials suggested by the State Department when they confirm  your registration.	2000-05-15
US	52859312	RPSQPW3KDPOVF	0300056664	149135541	Grand Strategies in War and Peace	Books	3	21	22	N	N	A Bit Too Narrowly Focused	This book has a lot going for it, not least of which is an editor with an excellent reputation.  The authors of the individual essays are also well-known and respected within the field, and the essays are well-written  and cogent.  However, despite Paul Kennedy's explanation in the preface,  the essays concentrate primarily on either military strategy during wartime  or preparation, primarily military, for the next war.  What consideration  is given to economics, alliances, and diplomacy is geared toward military  preparedness.  This makes the essays much narrower than Kennedy's  definition of grand strategy implies, and I cannot help but wonder about  the choice of essays.<br /> Within this narrow field, however, this book is  excellent.  The essays are clear, easy to follow, and persuasive.  Most do  an excellent job of providing not just a history lesson, but an analysis of  the positive and negative aspects of the strategy.  Of particular use were  the three essays concerning British strategy in the War of Spanish  Succession, World War I, and World War II.  The essays on German and French  policy also covered more than one war, making them useful for an analysis  of how policy changes over time.  Both successful and unsuccessful examples  are given, and much thought is given on why this is so.<br /> Beyond this, all  I have are minor quibbles, the most serious being the fact that this is,  essentially, a series of case studies.  It is dangerous to use case studies  to provide an objective analysis, in that there is a temptation to choose a  thesis first, then choose which cases to observe to support that theory.   Case studies are more useful in defending or defining a theory than in  determining one.  Here we can only hope that Paul Kennedy's reputation is  earned (and I believe it is), because it would be very easy for him to  mislead us.<br /> The focus of the book is on Western Europe, and this is  somewhat disappointing, given that other countries are becoming more and  more prominent on the world scene.  An analysis of Chinese, or even better,  Japanese policy would have been useful, especially given its unique  position.  The end notes are placed at the very back of the book, making it  difficult to check references, etc.  The first essay could have used  tighter editing as well.<br /> Enough complaints, however.  This is an  excellent book, more useful for history than for strategy formulation, but  a useful companion book nonetheless.	2000-05-15
US	52859312	R1JHHRUGA2TN9M	0130830089	412110289	Choice, The: A Fable of Free Trade and Protectionism	Books	4	14	15	N	N	An Entertaining Defense of Free Trade	This book is, as the title suggests, an allegory with the notion of free trade at its center.  It also not-so-subtly introduces the lay reader, for whom this book was written, to the arguments supporting free trade.<br /> It  is written in the style of It's A Wonderful Life, in that the main  character, resembling the American Everyman in his doubts about the merits  of free trade, wishes that things could have been different.  He is led on  a journey of what might have been.  Roberts masterfully mixes in  macroeconomic and international economic theory in the process, allowing  the reader to make their own decisions on the merits of free trade, rather  than simply being cowed by the picture he paints of a protectionist United  States.<br /> For those who are familiar with both macroeconomic and  international economic theory, this book won't open your eyes.  It does,  however, provide a framework for explaining the merits of free trade to  others.  For those unfamiliar with economic theory, however, it is probably  the most painless and enjoyable ways to become familiar with the territory.	2000-05-15
US	52859312	R9GPJ2QMBDPVU	0300035926	812625631	The Art of Political Manipulation	Books	3	15	21	N	N	Well-Written, but Confusing and Sometimes Dry	The first and most important thing to understand about this book is that it is NOT a political psychology book.  Anyone looking for that will be sorely disappointed.  This is a book dealing primarily with the  manipulation of voting rights and practices to achieve a given result.<br />  It is difficult to imagine the average reader getting excited about the  subtle implications of what order certain proposals, etc. are voted on in.   However, the author is obviously enthusiastic, and to an extent, it is  catching.  If you read carefully enough (and it should be noted that it is  a dry subject, so it can be slow going), the games played become clear, and  it can be exciting-- up to a point.<br /> This book is organized as a series  of case studies, beginning all the way back in Classical Greece, moving up  through the Lincoln-Douglas Debates, and on to modern-day club voting and  Congressional vote-trading.  This last example is probably the most useful  to the modern reader, as it does provide a useful explanation of the  utility and even necessity of what is commonly seen as &quot;sleazy  politics&quot;.<br /> This book is lacking in the explanation of theory or  conclusion, either in the realm of the morality of the sort of manipulation  presented or in the theory of practice.  Riker's one stab at theory comes  in the form of coining a new word to cover the art of voting effectively.   The examples given, however, are well-explained, and can be useful to  anyone involved in parliamentary procedure.  It should be noted that this  IS an important subject, and provided an important impetus toward the  development of modern parliamentary procedure.	2000-05-12
US	52859312	RTJ5Q2CZWU5FV	0393007383	477544623	Stalin As Revolutionary, 1879-1929: A Study in History and Personality (Vol. 1)	Books	4	23	24	N	N	An Engrossing Picture of Stalin and the Russian Revolution	It's a shame that this book is out of print.  It's an excellent book by an excellent author.  This book contains all of the things you would expect from a biography of Stalin, including all of the stories of his childhood,  etc.  What makes this book interesting and controversial, however, is that  Tucker dares to explore what effect his childhood might have had on his  future personality (always dangerous ground for a historian) and detail his  motives as well as his tactics in the struggle for power in the post-Lenin  Soviet Union.<br /> That said, it should be noted that, as is common with  Tucker's books, this is the middle book in Tucker's biography of Stalin.   It's focus is on his rise to power and the consolidation of that power in  the Soviet Union, although it does deal slightly with other periods.  Also  useful is the chapter on Lenin.  A very useful book for anyone interested  in Russian studies, as Stalin was one of the shaping figures of the Soviet  Union.	2000-05-10
US	52859312	R1GNFFPDZQQTW1	0195092449	510445933	Force and Statecraft: Diplomatic Problems of Our Time	Books	5	19	21	N	N	An International Affairs Degree in a Single Book	Okay, maybe not an entire IR degree.  Most require classes in economics and geography as well.  However, this was a required text for one of my international affairs classes, and it was one of the few books that I  refused to sell back at the end of the semester, despite being the  quintessential starving college student.  Although it is clearly written  and easy to understand, it is not simply a collection of truisms that any  first year student would take for granted.<br /> Force and Statecraft really  does contain just about everything you need to know for an IR degree.  It  is organized by topic, which many of my classmates found boring.  However,  I found that this allowed for the clearest exposition of the ideas  possible, and allowed the authors to examine each idea in detail before  moving on to the next.<br /> The pairing of the authors is excellent.   Alexander George is a political scientist specializing in foreign  relations, and Gordon Craig is a historian specializing in diplomatic and  interstate history.  I am convinced that it is this pairing that allows  Force and Statecraft to have such a broad scope without losing any of its  expertise, as often happens in books by a single author.  Both are  excellent writers, and their other books are highly recommended as well.<br />  This book begins, as many IR degree programs do, with a diplomatic history  course.  This is essential to understanding international relations today,  and Craig makes it exciting and interesting.  It should be noted that this  first section also covers the importance of economics and domestic opinion  in the making of foreign policy, something that is often overlooked by  other books.  The book then goes on, topic by topic, to discuss the major  topics in foreign policy, paying particular attention to the techniques of  diplomacy and foreign policy, something also lacking in most books in the  field.  This is a book anyone interested in foreign policy should have on  their bookshelf.	2000-05-09
US	52859312	R1QO8EUSBV5PDQ	0810934450	373133278	History of Art (Trade Version) (5th Edition)	Books	4	30	36	N	N	The Cornerstone of Any Art History Library	Simply put, this book is the standard that any other art history book is measured by.  It's long, thorough, and extremely good.  Well-illustrated, it covers every major (and most minor) periods of Western art starting from  primitive cave sketches in France to modern-day.  Beware, however; though  the title doesn't say it, this book is a history of WESTERN art.  Don't  expect to see much in the way of art from other cultures, except in a  comparison with a piece of western art.<br /> As the editors suggest, Janson  does not assume any level of knowledge on the part of his reader.  This  does, in fact, make this book fabulously easy to understand, even while he  fills your head with a near-exhausting level of information.  Janson is THE  name in art history, and unfortunately, he knows it.  He has a tendency to  talk down to his readers, and his arrogance comes across clearly in nearly  every paragraph.  If it weren't for this exception and the fact that it  only covers western art, it would have been an easy 5-star.  You still  can't get a better guide to western art-- no matter your level of  familiarity.	2000-05-08
US	52859312	RSN8MKM9O7OIZ	0399501487	502818647	Lord of the Flies	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Hobbesian Tale of Human Nature	Lord of the Flies is one of those books that many of us had to read in high school.  I didn't, but picked it up anyway-- and it has quickly become one of my favorite books.  On the surface, it is a tense, exciting adventure novel, short enough to be read in a single day, but long enough  to provide fulfillment.<br /> Lord of the Flies can be read, on another level,  as a cautionary tale of the true state of human nature-- what Ursula K.  LeGuin would call a &quot;thought experiment.&quot;  Like LeGuin's Left  Hand of Darkness, it is one author's attempt to decipher one facet of human  nature by isolating it and stripping it of its support.  In this case, a  group of children are stranded on a tropical island during what appears to  be the Third World War.  With no adult authority, the children attempt to  fashion their own society based upon the one they left.  This quickly  breaks down, however, and the true nature of Man emerges.  As a thought  experiment, this book works wonderfully.  Isolated from  &quot;civilized&quot; society, they are freed from the bonds and  restrictions of it, and as children, are not as inculcated with the  lingering values and mores that adults would bring with them.  The stage is  set for a clear glimpse of true human nature, were it to be freed of the  bonds of society.  In Golding's view, human nature clearly reflects what  Thomas Hobbes called the &quot;state of nature&quot;: the children live in  a state of &quot;continual fear and danger of violent death; and the life  of people, solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short.&quot;<br /> The  symbolism in this book is clear and precise, without disrupting the realism  or flow of the book.  Piggy, with his glasses and insistence upon order,  represents society's rules and Freud's superego.  Ralph, the obsensible  leader of the children, tries to balance the wishes of the children to play  and the choir to hunt with the need to keep a signal fire going and build  shelter, and could easily represent Freud's ego.  Jack, the choirmaster,  with his anger and eagerness to hunt and gain power, describes the id at  its most merciless.  Many more symbols abound, but writing of them would  ruin what is a fantastic story!y represent Freud's ego.  Jack, the choirmaster,  with his anger and eagerness to hunt and gain power, describes the id at  its most merciless.  Many more symbols abound, but writing of them would  ruin what is a fantastic story!	2000-05-03
US	52859312	R3BTL5BWPV78RU	0941423611	539590590	The March to War	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Not Quite Reference, History Book, or Impartial	The March to War is an interesting book given its format: basically a collection of editorials, newspaper articles, and other material printed around the time of the Gulf War.  Much of it is interesting reading, but it  is all open-source material, easily found outside this book.  If you  followed the newspapers during the Gulf War, much of this will not be new  to you.<br /> The chosen format is novel, but presents some difficulties.  The  fact that the pieces were written around the time of Desert Shield/Desert  Storm means that it serves more as a day-to-day history of the two  operations than any sort of insightful analysis.  The format also robs it  of any sort of continuity other than the organization of the pieces, and  the lack of an index makes it a very frustrating book if you are looking  for a specific piece of information.<br /> Readers familiar with the major  voices in international affairs, however, will be interested to see the  coalition of people aligned against the war: it ranges from conservatives  such as Kissinger to such liberals as Noam Chomsky.  All in all, however,  there are better books out on the Gulf War, and all of the information  contained in this book could be found just as easily by going to your local  library.	2000-04-28
US	52859312	R1RD72Z4RN91V8	0226431479	115081347	American Diplomacy (Walgreen Foundation Lectures)	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Very Interesting Perspectives	This book is a collection of speeches by George F. Kennan made during the Cold War.  For those unfamiliar with the author, he is the author of the famous &quot;X&quot; article, The Sources of Soviet Conduct, which served  as the intellectual foundation of the Containment Doctrine.<br /> Although  dated, especially since the fall of the Soviet Union and the end of the  Cold War, this short book provides a useful look not only at the ideas of  one of our most eminent Cold War thinkers, but also of the atmosphere and  conditions of the period.	2000-04-28
US	52859312	R2IVELQXX21Y0Q	0062734768	870056882	Robert's Rules in Plain English	Books	5	260	261	N	N	Short, Simple, and Easy to Use for Beginners	This is a short, easy-to-use and understand book about parliamentary procedure.  It's well laid out, and the beginning of the book has a good explanation of how and why parliamentary procedure works. It was written  with beginners in mind.  The order of precedence for motions is  painstakingly and clearly laid out for the reader, as well as an  explanation of why one motion takes precedence over another.  Explanations  of exactly what a motion does and an example of its use are included as  well.  Chapters are also included explaining the responsibilities of the  chair, secretary, and treasurer, as well as a guide to setting agendas.  That said, this is not, nor was it intended to be, a comprehensive guide to  parliamentary procedure.  For small or somewhat informal meeting, this book  is all you need.  For a large, formal group with professional officers,  however, a full copy of Robert's Rules is recommended. This book is a great  intro to parliamentary procedure, and is all you need to run most meetings.   Even with larger groups, this is a wonderful book to keep at your elbow at  meetings to use as a reference.	2000-04-26
US	52859312	R8OO2DXMQLWL9	0374236658	386866765	Power and Principle: Memoirs of the National Security Adviser, 1977-1981	Books	3	4	6	N	N	An Unrefined Gem	Zbigniew Brzezinski was the National Security Advisor (or Special Advisor to the President for National Security Affairs) for President Carter.  This alone makes his memoirs useful reading for anyone interested in how the  formulation of foreign policy works.<br /> There are several caveats to keep  in mind with this book.  First and most important is that Brzezinski has  always been an apologist for Carter, and this book reflects that fact, as  well as Brzezinski's personal stake in portraying a foreign policy he  helped formulate.  Second, Brzezinski is very careful not to step on any  toes.  Brzezinski begins the book by explaining his relationship with the  other major players, and he is very careful to express respect for them,  personally as well as professionally.  The book is carefully written so as  not to cast anyone in an overly negative light, and this cuts down on its  usefulness.  Lastly, it occasionally reads like a copy of his schedule for  the day-- 8:15 meeting with the President.  Ate breakfast.  Wrote a memo.   However, the pace often picks up, and the format sometimes gives a useful  insight into the workings of power in the White House.<br /> That said,  Brzezinski's memoirs give a fascinating insight into the formulation of  foreign policy in recent history and a detailed explanation of the major  events in foreign policy in the Carter era.  The &quot;close-in&quot;  format gives an interesting view of the nitty-gritty of diplomacy, and  illustrates how useful proximity to the President can be in the internecine  power games of the White House.<br /> Not destined to be a classic on the  shelves of those interested in foreign affairs, due to its unrefined  quality and excessive care not to offend anyone, but a useful and  interesting ready anyway.	2000-04-26
US	52859312	R1TY45EC87SH3J	0679776621	209785453	The Coming Conflict with China	Books	1	29	44	N	N	An Alarmist View of Sino-American Relations	I was assigned this book for a class in East Asian-World Politics, so I read it thoroughly and was thoroughly disappointed.  The assumptions that this book is based on are fallacious and misguided, and the authors seem to  have no understanding of either Chinese political culture or the nature of  international relations. To begin with, the book spends most of its time  highlighting and exaggerating sources of tension between the two countries,  and seems to assume that every tension between two states will inevitably  lead to full-scale war.  This assumption is sadly mistaken.  In fact, the  United States and Canada have outstanding disagreements on a number of  issues, yet experience close relations and have the longest unguarded  border in the world. The book relies mostly on provacative statements made  by members of the Chinese Communist Party to support its thesis.  It  ignores the fact that it is common practice in Chinese politics to speak  loudly and negatively about whomever China currently disagrees with.  Just  because a member of the National People's Congress says war with the United  States is inevitable over human rights doesn't mean it will happen.  Have  the authors ever heard Jesse Helms (or many other senators, for that  matter) speak?  Note their reluctance to use force to settle the Taiwan  issue. The entire book comes off as a heavily-biased college paper on  US-Chinese relations.  The fact that they use virtually no primary-source  material or Chinese-language material not already translated adds to this  perception.  It appears that the authors decided the hypothesis of the book  beforehand, and simply searched for information to support their theory.   As flawed and biased a book as I have come across in a long time.	2000-04-21
US	52859312	R8VTJYJHLC06H	0070433062	889543461	Politics Among Nations, Brief Edition	Books	5	20	21	N	N	The Bible of International Relations	If you've ever studied foreign policy or international affairs, you're familiar with the ideas and theories of Hans Morganthau, even if you don't realize it.  He defined power for this field (no, really-- his definition of power is the accepted standard in the field), and much of modern  international affairs theory is based on his ideas. This book is written as  a textbook, but a rather readable one.  For serious students of  international affairs, much of the contents of the book may seem like a  review, but I still found several ideas that were new to me.  For beginners  or those who simply wish to increase their knowledge of world politics,  this book may seem like a somewhat dense read, but it will teach you 90% of  modern international affairs theory.  Well worth the money and the effort.	2000-04-18
US	52859312	R1NXALFGC0K38A	0880388382	373718972	The Complete Wizard's Handbook, Second Edition (Advanced Dungeons & Dragons: Player's Handbook Rules Supplement #2115	Books	3	11	12	N	N	Good on schools of magic; weak on kits and spells	I've gotta say that the descriptions of the different schools of magic and their practitioners was pretty cool.  Good information on how they act in a party, what their strengths and weaknesses are, and what their  personalities might be like.  Useful for actually role-playing a wizard,  rather than just playing them. There were a few other good things as well.   Unfortunately, these are mostly wiped out by the weaknesses of the book.   One of the other reviews said that this book was a bin for collecting  unused AD&amp;D arcana, and I'd say that's pretty accurate.  A few  semi-useful magic items, a few (mostly low-level) spells of questionable  usefulness compared to existing spells, a small sampling of chem lab  equipment. The real weaknesses show, however, when they try to round out  the book.  The kits are pretty pathetic.  What's worse are the personality  types, overblown and incredibly unrealistic.  The suggestions for a magical  college were kind of interesting, but they should have taken out some of  the other junk and put in, say, a sample school.  Or put in a larger  selection of spells. There are many better supplements on magic out there.	2000-02-25
US	52859312	RQO3677HX9YVP	1560768371	25855818	The Complete Book of Villains (Advanced Dungeons & Dragons 2nd Edition)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	One of the most useful tools TSR has ever produced . . .	. . . in or out of AD&amp;D.  I say that because, although I don't DM anymore, I still use this book.  The title is a bit deceiving-- although it's useful for creating villains, it can be used equally well for creating  any sort of NPC, and almost as well for creating characters in any other  role-playing system or none at all!  This book takes characters off the  paper and into flesh with a helpful system and ideas for creating  backgrounds, motives, resources available, organizations, and abilities.   One of the most useful guides for a DM.	2000-02-08
US	52859312	R2KU1GEJDL3XCO	0684825570	114375014	Kissinger: A Biography	Books	5	101	107	N	N	An uncompromising look at an important statesman	As Walter Isaacson will tell you, Kissinger is the sort of man who will draw polar reactions from people-- you either love him or hate him.  This makes it difficult to write an objective biography of him while still  providing useful commentary.  Isaacson succeeds brilliantly.  Although he  is very penetrating in analyzing Kissinger's techniques and views as  National Security Advisor and later as Secretary of State, he stops short  of giving us his views on whether they were good and bad, focusing instead  on whether or not they worked, and what reaction they provoked. This leaves  the reader to form their own opinion on whether or not Kissinger was  justified in his actions, or if his policies were the best ones.  This is  as it should be-- Kissinger is too complex a subject and too emotional a  topic to be fed someone else's reaction to his actions. Isaacson points out  the successes of Kissinger's noted duplicity and his pragmatic, sometimes  ruthless, worldview, as well as the negative reactions it often drew, but  leaves the reader to decide their own opinion. What Isaacson does is  provides an excellent insight into Kissinger's complex personality, as well  as an analysis of his foreign policy, the effects of his personality on his  policy, and the options available to him.  I have never seen a better guide  to Kissinger and his policies.	1999-12-07
US	52859312	R12FM4Q0HKRLN3	0786904348	513460943	World Builder's Guidebook (Advanced Dungeons & Dragons)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A great guide to building a world, in or out of AD&amp;D	Believe it or not, I bought this book AFTER I stopped DMing.  The reason is simple:  I still write a lot of fantasy.  AD&amp;D comes with many well-thought-out worlds, but when writing, you have to make your own.  This  is a great guidebook for making any run-of-the-mill fantasy world really  come to life.	1999-12-01
US	52859312	R2U6SQX3Z1G7YD	0880387807	533341487	The Complete Thief's Handbook: Player's Handbook Rules Supplement, 2nd Edition (Advanced Dungeons & Dragons)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Best All-Around Class Handbook	This is by far my favorite &quot;Complete _____'s Handbook.&quot;  Nearly everything in here is essential if you want to have a real thief, and not just a bunch of stats. The kits are some of the best I've seen.  Other  Handbooks have outlandish or just downright worthless kits (for instance,  take that Ranger kit that turns you into a tree!).  In this one, however,  every kit is unique, and yet believable and fun to play. For a long time,  this handbook was the only information available on Thieves' Guilds.  If  that's what you're after, however, I'd recommend Den of Theieves, which  fleshes it out even more and provides all sorts of adventure possibilities.  Round this book out with new equipment and magic items, and you have a  classic.	1999-12-01
US	52859312	RD2CRKIZFRBQL	0321011015	665645014	Understanding International Conflicts: An Introduction to Theory and History	Books	3	37	42	N	N	excellent intro book to International Affairs	One of the few textbooks I truly enjoyed, Nye's Understanding International Conflicts was a clear, easy-to-read, and yet insightful book.  Its focus is on the three levels of influence on a state's behavior: the  interstate system, intrastate politics, and individual.  It is one of the  few entry-level IA books to discuss the effect of personality on the  actions of a state.  Even in my graduate-level seminars and papers, I found  it to be useful.	1999-11-10
