US	52858201	R3BLMCV80IYKGV	0393308251	807371852	From Resistance to Revolution: Colonial Radicals and the Development of American Opposition to Britain, 1765-1776	Books	4	25	27	N	N	Compelling Thesis With Some Minor Flaws	As the subtitle states, Pauline Maier follows the evolutionary process of the American resistance movement against Britain in the Colonies from 1765 to 1776. Maier traces the ideology of resistance back across the Atlantic to a radical faction of the Whig Party in Britain known as \\"Real Whigs.\\" The Real Whigs believed that since the Glorious Revolution citizens have a right and a responsibility to speak out against the abuses of power and corruption within the government. Their aim, however, was not anarchy but rather to seek redress and reform through legal means. Maier argues this Real Whig ideology was transplanted to the American colonies through various forms of Whig literatures, particularly pamphlets by such political philosophers as John Locke and John Milton. In addition, Maier points out a further source of influence were the essays published by John Trenchard and Thomas Gordon as \\"Cato's Letters,\\" a primary source the author draws from extensively. The Real Whig philosophy was thus exposed at various town meetings throughout the colonies, particularly those in New England.                 Maier shows how assorted forms of \\"popular uprisings\\" to the Crown had existed at regional levels during the first decades of the eighteenth century. It was not until the 1760s, however, that a series of taxes levied by Britain on a variety of imported goods resulted in an increase of acts of protest and violence by the colonial radicals. Maier emphasizes how these early grievances were expressed though moderately peaceful means. The common practice of tarring and feathering of tax collectors, and later Stamp men was first initiated during this early period and for the most part became the extent of the personal violence practiced by the radicals.                 According to Maier, the Stamp Act of 1765 proved a watershed event for the resistance movement. Two bloody riots in Boston in August of that year bordered on chaos, but offered valuable lessons for the resistance leaders. From this point on, argues Maier, resistance against Britain became an organized movement whose centralized tactics spread throughout the colonies. The epicenter of the resistance movement was the organization dubbed the Sons of Liberty; first established in New York, with chapters soon rising up in other cities and towns throughout the colonies. Maier emphasizes that initially the colonists wanted to remain loyal to Great Britain. Reforms of oppressive governmental policies set forth against the colonials were their ultimate goal. The Sons of Liberty devised a strategy of systematic resistance through \\"extra-legal\\" not \\"illegal\\" means. If violence became necessary, destruction against official property, was preferred over harm to individuals. Maier illustrates the dismantling of tax offices and the Boston Tea Party, as examples of the former, while pointing out that rarely were official's homes destroyed. Moreover, effigies became the focus of frustration, not the officials themselves. When the Stamp Act was repealed, the resisters felt they had achieved a great victory and were content to return to life as usual under the mother country. It was only after Britain's escalation of \\"Intolerable Acts, however, that the resisters peaceful means proved inadequate. Maier concludes that revolution was the last resort for the colonial radicals and initiated only after all peaceful means were exhausted. Maier has written an intellectual history integrating a cause and effect methodology centering on a small group of radical resistors. The early publication date (1972) suggests the eclectic methodologies borrowed from the social sciences were not as prevalent in early American historiography as would be the case in the closing decade of the twentieth century. The author attempts to broaden her study to include the mid-Atlantic and southern colonies, however, a heavy emphasis on New England, particularly Boston, seems unavoidable. Maier prefers to consult mostly primary sources and utilizes the work of contemporary scholars sparingly. Wherever possible, period secondary sources, such as William Blackstone's Commentaries on the Laws of England (1771) are checked. The author cites various period correspondence, pamphlets, and a plethora of town Gazettes detailed in copious notes. Some criticisms. First, Maier fails in her efforts to effectively include all the colonies in her study. A comparative regional study far beyond the reaches of Maier's work would be needed to do justice to the complexity of the inter-colonial resistance movement. In addition, throughout the work the author assumes a considerable amount of knowledge from her readers. This approach is particularly evident with her treatment, or lack thereof, of the core of colonial radicals. For example, in the introduction, Maier explains how \\"A significant group of men . . . emerged as strong American partisans during the Stamp Act crisis and remained in the forefront of opposition to Britain on into the war.\\" She goes on to list these prominent participants: \\"Christopher Gadsden in Charleston; Cornelius Harnett in North Carolina; Richard Henry Lee in Virginia; John Lamb and Isaac Sears in New York; Samuel Adams in Boston; . . . [and] Thomas Young . . . in Albany.\\"   Other than mere mention, Maier does not go into much detail about the lives or backgrounds of these men. More focus on this core group would have added a human dimension to her intellectual study. The fact that these men cover a wide geographical base reinforces the notion that Maier could have delved deeper into the inter-colonial aspect of the resistance movement. Aside from these nit-picks, Maier supports her thesis well throughout the book. Maier's argument centers on the premise that organized resistance as opposed to mob violence was the preferred method of expressing grievances, with revolution becoming a consideration only as a last resort. The author adequately demonstrates the resistance movement had historical precedence by tracing its origins back to the Real Whig faction in Britain. Maier's work is significant in that she shows that the colonial \\"radicals\\" were more about the Boston Tea Party and less about the more violent Boston Massacre and Lexington-Concord scenarios so prominently expressed in colonial historical literature.imary sources and utilizes the work of contemporary scholars sparingly. Wherever possible, period secondary sources, such as William Blackstone's Commentaries on the Laws of England (1771) are checked. The author cites various period correspondence, pamphlets, and a plethora of town Gazettes detailed in copious notes. Some criticisms. First, Maier fails in her efforts to effectively include all the colonies in her study. A comparative regional study far beyond the reaches of Maier's work would be needed to do justice to the complexity of the inter-colonial resistance movement. In addition, throughout the work the author assumes a considerable amount of knowledge from her readers. This approach is particularly evident with her treatment, or lack thereof, of the core of colonial radicals. For example, in the introduction, Maier explains how \\"A significant group of men . . . emerged as strong American partisans during the Stamp Act crisis and remained in the forefront of opposition to Britain on into the war.\\" She goes on to list these prominent participants: \\"Christopher Gadsden in Charleston; Cornelius Harnett in North Carolina; Richard Henry Lee in Virginia; John Lamb and Isaac Sears in New York; Samuel Adams in Boston; . . . [and] Thomas Young . . . in Albany.\\"  Other than mere mention, Maier does not go into much detail about the lives or backgrounds of these men. More focus on this core group would have added a human dimension to her intellectual study. The fact that these men cover a wide geographical base reinforces the notion that Maier could have delved deeper into the inter-colonial aspect of the resistance movement. Aside from these nit-picks, Maier supports her thesis well throughout the book. Maier's argument centers on the premise that organized resistance as opposed to mob violence was the preferred method of expressing grievances, with revolution becoming a consideration only as a last resort. The author adequately demonstrates the resistance movementhad historical precedence by tracing its origins back to the Real Whig faction in Britain. Maier's work is significant in that she shows that the colonial \\"radicals\\" were more about the Boston Tea Party and less about the more violent Boston Massacre and Lexington-Concord scenarios so prominently expressed in colonial historical literature.	2005-08-01
US	52858201	R1KKRBYRZFG12T	0700603735	147887342	Class Struggle and the New Deal: Industrial Labor, Industrial Capital, and the State (Studies in Historical Social Change)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Marxist Slant in New Deal Historiography	In 1988, Rhonda F. Levine, associate professor of sociology at Colgate University offered a significantly complex contribution to a longstanding historical debate concerning the relationship between class struggle and the shaping of economic policy during the Great Depression. Expanding her doctoral dissertation to book length, Levine, utilizing a plethora of sources suggests that the \\"dynamic of class struggle ... shaped both [New Deal] policy formulation and outcomes\\", an argument often overlooked by New Deal historians. Levine draws from a wealth of evidence to support her claim. These include a vast array of Government records from nearly every administrative committee formed during the decade of the 1930's; manuscripts housed at the Roosevelt Library in Hyde Park; to various Leftist publications such as: Socialist Revolution, Socialist Register, and New Left Review. Levine has chosen to incorporate language and phraseology throughout her treatise-to the point that \\"Capitalist\\" all too often takes on the form of a much-overused adjective-that clearly places her work within a Marxist perspective. Although such phrases as \\"Capitalist Class and Labor Class\\" replace the Marxist terms \\"Bourgeoisie\\" and \\"Proletariat,\\" it is still the ever-existing class struggle, argues Levine, not the machinations of the New Deal policy makers that provided the impetus behind the economic recovery programs of the 1930's. This particular take, however glaring, does not diminish the enormous effort Levine has undertaken in presenting her analysis, however, it does illustrate where her book ranks in comparison to other New Deal economic studies. Levine begins by explaining the origins of the longstanding historiographical debate concerning the record of Roosevelt's New Deal Policies. The two sides of the argument, explains Levine, takes on the form of \\"radical innovations,\\" on the one side, thereby suggesting the economic policies that sprang from the throws of the Great depression, forever changed the course of \\"state/economy relations.\\" While on the other side of the argument, were the proponents who argued that \\"conservative strategies\\" aimed at restoring economic stability while at the same time maintaining the status quo provided the basis for New Deal economic recovery. Among the historians Levine cites who support the \\"radical\\" viewpoint, is William E. Leuchtenburg who claims the creation of the Federal relief system and the \\"unionization of the labor working class\\" are just two examples of the unique economic innovations of the 1930s. Levine considers Barton J. Bernstein a leading historian from the conservative camp for his contention that \\"liberal aims of the New Deal policy makers produced conservative results.\\" On the whole, argues Levine, \\"conventional historiographical accounts\\" almost always concentrate on the policy makers and judge their performance by \\"success\\" or \\"failure.\\" Moreover, \\"most New Deal historians take for granted the boundaries of state intervention and rarely question the limits the economic processes might place on political decision making\\" (pp. 4-5). Levine goes on to explain that the conceptual analysis of the state further divides the two camps into pluralists and instrumentalists viewpoints. Pluralists assert that the activities of politicians and interest groups along with the conflicts that evolve between these groups are what demand the creation of state policy not the state itself. In affect Pluralist views are more concerned with the welfare of its citizens. In contrast, Instrumentalists, claim the state becomes a \\"powerful weapon\\" in the hands of a small capitalist elite who \\"pressure the state\\" to enact economic policies for their own benefit. Among the scholars Levine criticizes with sometimes \\"oversimplifying\\" and not taking into account the root of the problem-- \\"capital accumulation\\"-- is the Nicos Poulantzas-Ralph Miliband debate, as well as, Fred L. Block, and Theda Skocpol. It is only after thislong and detailed explanation with repeated emphasis on Levine's contention that labor class and its many manifestations initiated New Deal policies that the book begins to be less tedious to the non-specialized reader. Levine devotes a couple of chapters to economic history in America from the mid-nineteenth century through 1929. Here Levine clearly explains what effects technology and industrialization had on American labor and how this eventually led to class struggle-a term I felt she never clearly defines-- within the industrial sector. In concise historical narrative containing language gingerly sprinkled with Marxist overtones, Levine outlines the evils industrialization has placed on United States labor relations. Amid the evolutionary development of mass production, the \\"Capitalist exploitation of labor,\\" the introduction of scientific management, reactions to the growing influx of immigrant labor, and the creation of labor unions, Levine suggests that the root of the crisis ultimately rests in capital accumulation and the relationship between monopoly and non-monopoly capital. Although her narrative is understandably slanted to support her argument, it is here that Levine synthesizes her evidence more objectively resulting in one of the strongest sections of the book. Levine relies heavily upon the genesis, implementation, and demise of The National Industrial Recovery Act (NIRA) of June 1933 and subsequent enforcement agencies to illustrate her thesis. The NIRA, initially designed to stabilize the economy and promote spending was wracked with problems from the start. Nowhere was this more apparent than the controversial \\"section 7,\\" the clause that permitted industrial labor to organize and bargain collectively. Here Levine\\" utilizes her \\"class struggle\\" contention effectively to illustrate the conflict that developed not only between capitalists and labor classes, but also the \\"fractions\\"(monopoly vs. non-monopoly) that emerged from within the capitalist class itself. \\"The state apparatus,\\" concludes Levine, \\"is not outside the basic class contradictions, and state policy mirrors the larger antagonisms and contradictions of class society\\" (p. 88). Levine has aimed her analysis at the scholarly community. In so doing, she assumes a considerable amount of background knowledge from her audience. Her pages are crammed full of professional jargon resulting in a complex yet astute analytical approach to the vast array of material that accompanies this topic. Finally, her Socialist slant leaves no doubt of the perception she wishes to convey.long and detailed explanation with repeated emphasis on Levine's contention that labor class and its many manifestations initiated New Deal policies that the book begins to be less tedious to the non-specialized reader. Levine devotes a couple of chapters to economic history in America from the mid-nineteenth century through 1929. Here Levine clearly explains what effects technology and industrialization had on American labor and how this eventually led to class struggle-a term I felt she never clearly defines-- within the industrial sector. In concise historical narrative containing language gingerly sprinkled with Marxist overtones, Levine outlines the evils industrialization has placed on United States labor relations. Amid the evolutionary development of mass production, the \\"Capitalist exploitation of labor,\\" the introduction of scientific management, reactions to the growing influx of immigrant labor, and the creation of labor unions, Levine suggests that the root of the crisis ultimately rests in capital accumulation and the relationship between monopoly and non-monopoly capital. Although her narrative is understandably slanted to support her argument, it is here that Levine synthesizes her evidence more objectively resulting in one of the strongest sections of the book. Levine relies heavily upon the genesis, implementation, and demise of The National Industrial Recovery Act (NIRA) of June 1933 and subsequent enforcement agencies to illustrate her thesis. The NIRA, initially designed to stabilize the economy and promote spending was wracked with problems from the start. Nowhere was this more apparent than the controversial \\"section 7,\\" the clause that permitted industrial labor to organize and bargain collectively. Here Levine\\" utilizes her \\"class struggle\\" contention effectively to illustrate the conflict that developed not only between capitalists and labor classes, but also the \\"fractions\\"(monopoly vs. non-monopoly) that emerged from within the capitalist class itself. \\"The state apparatus,\\" concludes Levine, \\"is not outside the basic class contradictions, and state policy mirrors the larger antagonisms and contradictions of class society\\" (p. 88). Levine has aimed her analysis at the scholarly community. In so doing, she assumes a considerable amount of background knowledge from her audience. Her pages are crammed full of professional jargon resulting in a complex yet astute analytical approach to the vast array of material that accompanies this topic. Finally, her Socialist slant leaves no doubt of the perception she wishes to convey.	2005-08-01
US	52858201	R1T85LHVZROC9X	0679736883	443101004	The Radicalism of the American Revolution	Books	5	23	28	N	N	Compellng, Conversational Antithesis to Pauline Maier	Gordon S. Wood argues the American Revolution transformed American society more than any other event in history. Conceding that the American Revolution was not as bloody as the French, Russian, or Chinese Revolutions, it did, in fact serve as the model for those that came later. Wood argues the American Revolution was not a conservative movement as is often the popular consensus among historians. Wood's concentration is centered squarely on social change. \\"By the time the Revolution had run its course [writes Wood] in the early nineteenth century, American society had been radically and thoroughly transformed.\\" \\"By the early years of the nineteenth century the Revolution had created a society fundamentally different from the colonial society of the eighteenth century. It was in fact a new society unlike any that had ever existed anywhere in the world.\\" How, in Wood's view, did this social transformation occur? Wood illustrates that the transformation of early American society occurred in three distinct phrases that he later called \\"three cultural paradigms or ideal types.\\" American society, argues Wood, underwent a political shift from a Monarchy, to a republic, to a democracy. These three shifts represent the outline of the book. Wood emphasizes, however, that these three phrases did not transpire in neat blocks of black and white. There were, in fact, many gray areas. Not all elements of American society felt the impact of this transformation at once. Wood's study continues some forty years after the Revolution into the early nineteenth century to illustrate the full social, political, economic, and religious change in American society. Somewhat contradicting to his timeframe, however, Wood states: \\"Far from remaining monarchical, hierarchy-ridden subjects on the margin of civilization, Americans had become, almost over-night the most liberal, the most democratic, the most commercially minded, and the most modern people in the world....\\"It was the Revolution, more than any other single event, that made America into the most liberal, democratic, and modern nation in the world.\\" This then is the essence of Wood's study. Wood goes on to explain in intricate detail this amazing conversion to democracy. Incorporating varying methodologies of the social sciences, Wood shows how the social hierarchy and class distinctions of the American aristocracy, or landed gentry began to wither away after the Revolution under the auspices of a new egalitarian society. The masses could now own land, and run for public office. Paper money, debt, and other aspects of a modern economy as we know it today were established in the years following the American Revolution. Wood devotes a detailed discussion on the renovation of American labor. Diversity is another theme expressed by Wood, particularly in reference to religion in America. Aside from elements of the social sciences, Wood incorporates a philosophic approach as well, discussing such themes as modernity, equality, and even virtue and benevolence. Wood consults more contemporary secondary sources as well as the standard primary material. This method not only underscores the scope of Wood's scholarship, but also leads the reader to the wealth of modern historiography. Wood's prose in exceedingly conversational and although his notes are extensive, his paragraphs are not crammed with numerous citations. Wood's arguments flow evenly, however this is one book one must stay with in order to preserve continuity. It is the incorporation of the social science methodologies that enable Wood to succeed in making this a true inter-colonial study touching upon nearly all aspects of American society. Nevertheless, two exceptions are Native-Americans and African Americans who could and should have received more space. Wood does touch upon these two racial groups, yet, their voice is fragmented. In spite of these blemishes, Wood comes closest to answering the question of what makes Americans unique as a people. He accomplishes this task without harboring on exceptionalism by placing the new United States within the framework of the Atlantic World. Wood has provided a benchmark for other historians to follow. Highly recommended.ople. He accomplishes this task without harboring on exceptionalism by placing the new United States within the framework of the Atlantic World. Wood has provided a benchmark for other historians to follow. Highly recommended.	2005-08-01
US	52858201	R29IY8QKEDMRIL	0192880527	732146336	The Gorbachev Factor	Books	5	7	9	N	N	One Man Had a Plan!	Archie Brown has written a thought provoking and sympathetic analysis of the political leadership of Mikhail Gorbachev spanning his rein as Secretary General of the Central Committee (president) of the Soviet Union from 1985 to its collapse in 1991. Brown argues it was the \\"Gorbachev Factor,\\" the Secretary General's role as a reformer, an initiator of change that totally transformed the Soviet Union's political system to that of a pluralist structure based on a democratic socialist model. Although the author admits this is not a biography of Gorbachev and points out the importance of placing the man within the context of political, economic and social events of the time, Gorbachev remains the central focus of this work. Brown counters several of the myths, both emanating from the West as well as within the Soviet political structure regarding the pros and cons of Gorbachev's tenure. Brown states Gorbachev had an agenda of four transformational reforms when he took office in 1985. Individual chapters in the book cover these goals in detail. First was the plan for economic reform (Chapter 5). Second, Gorbachev envisioned the liberalization of the present political system (Chapter 6). Third, involved revising Soviet foreign policy including replacing the Soviet hegemony in Eastern Bloc countries with a cooperative alternative; drastically reduce the Soviet military presence in those countries; pull out of Afghanistan; and ending the Cold War between East and West (Chapter 7). A forth consideration involved the nationalist question concerning sovereignty and statehood within the borders of the Soviet Union, and the challenge of preserving that union (Chapter 8). What Gorbachev did not envision, nor had he anticipated, emphasizes Brown, was the eventual collapse of the Soviet Union. Brown believes Gorbachev's greatest contribution lies in the political arena. Brown claims Gorbachev acted more like a western politician than any of his predecessors. Gorbachev it seems was able to pull off impossible political feats while working within the constraints of the Soviet system. By 1989-1990, argues, Brown, Gorbachev surely made the Soviet political system \\"different\\" than the one he had inherited. By \\"different,\\" the author means the government became a pluralist system with the introduction of contested elections and the establishment of autonomous political organizations. As the author notes, this became a double-edged sword as a result of losing the eastern countries, \\"the fruit of the Soviet Union's victory in the Second World War,\\" a conservative element, headed by the real culprit in Brown's view: Boris Yeltsin, began to exert pressure. Brown counters those who claim Gorbachev initially paid lip service to Marxist-Leninist ideology and bent to pressure from the far right. Brown simply illustrates that Gorbachev required the use of subtle vocabulary instead of attacking the Soviet system head on. Gorbachev did not want to become another Khrushchev and be ousted from office before his task was completed. The failed August 1991 coup and his eventual resignation in December ironically made the latter prediction a reality and initiated the criticisms of Gorbachev as a failure. Brown emphatically states the collapse of the Soviet Union was the direct result of pressure exuded by Yeltsin's conservatives, and the August plotters of the failed putsch, not any fault of Gorbachev's. Brown admits Gorbachev was less successful in the economic arena as well as dealing with the \\"Nationalist question.\\" According to Brown, the Soviet Union had no historical president of an open market economy. By 1990, most agriculture as well as the total industrial sector was still state owned, while smaller shops and businesses were on their way to attempting the economic transition. Brown is deservingly sympathetic too Gorbachev's chairmanship of the Novo-Ogarevo Committee (1991), an attempt to call representatives of the independent statehoods to negotiate andcompromise state sovereignty and preserve the union. Six of the fifteen states refused to attend and the ensuing stagnation resulted in Yeltsin's climb in political popularity over Gorbachev and the latter's eventual political demise. The last point emphasizes a central theme of the book: Gorbachev's popularity. Brown claims that up to the failed August 1991 putsch and beyond, Gorbachev's popularity remained high both in the West and within the Soviet Union. The author gleans from participant memoirs, election results and, most importantly, public opinion surveys. The latter hails from the All-Union Center for the Study of Public Opinion, also known as, The All-Russian Center. This data previously unavailable to scholars dispels the notion that Gorbachev was a hero in the West for being the first to proclaim that communism is dead and widely unpopular in the USSR. The author also utilizes numerous \\"conversations\\" and interviews with scholars, writers, and politicians both East and West. A plethora of secondary sources in both Russian and English language fills the seventy-one pages of conversational notes consisting of paragraph length citings. Besides obviously crediting Gorbachev as being the mover and shaker in this dramatic political transformation, Brown credits the communist party collectively for bringing to the office of General Secretary a liberal reformer in the personae of Gorbachev. Gorbachev political skills avoided a costly if not bloody delay in this process. Brown agrees along the lines with Steven Kotkin (Armageddon Averted: The Soviet Collapse, 1970-2000) in that Gorbachev abhorred violence and a bloody military intervention was not an option for Gorbachev. On the other hand, however, contrary to Kotkin's thesis, Brown seems to suggest that the collapse of the Soviet Union, though not envisioned by Gorbachev in 1985, was inevitable. Had it not been Gorbachev, it would have been someone else in the stable of \\"New Thinkers\\" emerging within the new generation of Soviet political hierarchy. But it was Gorbachev, and Brown, though somewhat long-winded at times, succeeds in portraying with this work.compromise state sovereignty and preserve the union. Six of the fifteen states refused to attend and the ensuing stagnation resulted in Yeltsin's climb in political popularity over Gorbachev and the latter's eventual political demise. The last point emphasizes a central theme of the book: Gorbachev's popularity. Brown claims that up to the failed August 1991 putsch and beyond, Gorbachev's popularity remained high both in the West and within the Soviet Union. The author gleans from participant memoirs, election results and, most importantly, public opinion surveys. The latter hails from the All-Union Center for the Study of Public Opinion, also known as, The All-Russian Center. This data previously unavailable to scholars dispels the notion that Gorbachev was a hero in the West for being the first to proclaim that communism is dead and widely unpopular in the USSR. The author also utilizes numerous \\"conversations\\" and interviews with scholars, writers, and politicians both East and West. A plethora of secondary sources in both Russian and English language fills the seventy-one pages of conversational notes consisting of paragraph length citings. Besides obviously crediting Gorbachev as being the mover and shaker in this dramatic political transformation, Brown credits the communist party collectively for bringing to the office of General Secretary a liberal reformer in the personae of Gorbachev. Gorbachev political skills avoided a costly if not bloody delay in this process. Brown agrees along the lines with Steven Kotkin (Armageddon Averted: The Soviet Collapse, 1970-2000) in that Gorbachev abhorred violence and a bloody military intervention was not an option for Gorbachev. On the other hand, however, contrary to Kotkin's thesis, Brown seems to suggest that the collapse of the Soviet Union, though not envisioned by Gorbachev in 1985, was inevitable. Had it not been Gorbachev, it would have been someone else in the stable of \\"New Thinkers\\" emerging within the new generation of Soviet political hierarchy. But it was Gorbachev, and Brown, though somewhat long-winded at times, succeeds in portraying with this work.	2005-07-26
US	52858201	R2EKOSICAWY0DZ	0195055373	835834181	Revolutionary Dreams: Utopian Vision and Experimental Life in the Russian Revolution	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Totally Unique Take on The Russian Revolution!	What would one do if he or she had the power to completely change the social, cultural, political, religious, and economic structure of an existing society and create a utopia? Richard Stites, professor of history at Georgetown University, offers a fascinating look into the \\"revolutionary dreams\\" and fantasies of utopian thinkers articulated in the \\"feelings, thoughts, words, and actions that express, evoke or symbolize what has been called 'the utopian propensity'\\" (p. 3). This spiritual and mental expressionism of the revolution, encompassing the people, the state, and the radical intelligentsia, was deeply rooted in the \\"traditions of popular and religious utopia\\" and \\"manifold layers of previous [Russian] history\\" (p. 3). These utopian visions were enormously altered by Russia's industrialization, what Stites calls its \\"technological revolution\\" that resulted in an almost religious worship of the machine and American icons Frederick Winslow Taylor and Henry Ford. (p.3, 252). Stites culls from a vast array of imaginative sources including science fiction, to illustrate the experimental \\"programs and designs\\" in city planning, communal living, dress, speech, art and culture of a perfect society that could have been but was doomed by Joseph Stalin's scalpel and systematic \\"fantasctomy\\" (p. 235).                 Various conflicting emotions and ambiguities surface throughout Stites work. The essential conflict stems from the polarization of rationality versus far-flung daydreaming. To further illustrate this friction, the author introduces the variety of forms in which utopian visions take and an equal number of social/political groups that adhere to its varied manifestations. For example there are administration utopia, \\"a rational light beamed into the perceived darkness of the barbarous village world\\" versus popular/peasant utopia, based on the concept of Pravda (truth) and volya (freedom) (pp.15-18). The revolutionary iconoclasm that declared war on the luxury and symbols of the old regime, culture (Nihilism), and intellectualism (Makhaevism) through wanton vandalism, had to eventually be stifled by the very establishment that implemented it (Bolsheviks) lest every national treasure be destroyed. The conflict over urban versus rural life also presented a quandary. Cities were known for being centers for cultural and political activity as well as havens for crime, vise and the squalor of industrial waste. There was even thought of eliminating the cluster of cities all together in favor of a continuous avenue of modular housing that stretched in a straight line far into the vast Russian hinterland. Stites seems to not take a stand against the more absurd side of utopian daydreaming. The author does, however, differentiate between its two main political protagonists, V.I. Lenin and Stalin. Stites perceives Lenin as sympathetic to the utopian propensity, however, with one rational foot firmly placed in reality. Stalin, on the other hand, had both feet cemented in a realist agenda of \\"spontaneous euphoria and terror\\" (p. 227). Perhaps the oddest ambiguity of all is a \\"fantasy state\\" or \\"panegyric utopia\\" under Stalin, rising from the ashes of the revolutionary utopia Stalin supposedly hated so much. According to Stites, Stalin \\"detested disorder, freedom of expression, experimentation for its own sake, and especially experimentation in building autonomous communities and promoting equality,\\" all of the attributes of revolutionary daydreaming. Stites concludes, \\"Stalin's intense hatred of revolutionary utopianism and his emerging totalitarian system were not simply two independent ingredients of Stalinism but inextricably related\\" (p. 246). The most important theme of the book is \\"the Russian Revolution drew on a rich tradition of ritual culture, of forms traditions and motifs rooted in the past\\" (p. 79). Stites draws from an impressive list of Russian and western literature to stress this point. One comes away with a better understanding of the connection between the old peasant traditions and what was to become some of the basic tenants of communism, yet, like other scholars before, Stites does not succeed in bridging the gap between peasant and revolutionary intelligentsia. Nevertheless, Stites has contributed a provocative analysis that should stand the test of time. Stites acknowledges the lack of primary sources but hopes that his work will invite similar scholarly works. Stites, himself has contributed a significant sequel with _Russian Popular Culture: Entertainment and Society Since 1900_ (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1992) as well as, his previous work: _The Women's Liberation Movement in Russia_ (Princeton, New Jersey: Princeton University Press, 1978). Stites has also edited a number of anthologies dealing with Russian history.erstanding of the connection between the old peasant traditions and what was to become some of the basic tenants of communism, yet, like other scholars before, Stites does not succeed in bridging the gap between peasant and revolutionary intelligentsia. Nevertheless, Stites has contributed a provocative analysis that should stand the test of time. Stites acknowledges the lack of primary sources but hopes that his work will invite similar scholarly works. Stites, himself has contributed a significant sequel with _Russian Popular Culture: Entertainment and Society Since 1900_ (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1992) as well as, his previous work: _The Women's Liberation Movement in Russia_ (Princeton, New Jersey: Princeton University Press, 1978). Stites has also edited a number of anthologies dealing with Russian history.	2005-07-26
US	52858201	RXWVZX3XU64SC	0195104595	938756893	Stalin's Peasants: Resistance and Survival in the Russian Village after Collectivization	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Peasants into Soviets?	Sheila Fitzpatrick's study begins with the advent of collectivization in 1929 and covers the decade of the 1930's to the German invasion of June 1941. Fitzpatrick argues the peasants reacted to Stalin's brutal policy, what they regarded as \\"a second serfdom\\" (p. 4), with varying degrees of passive resistance. The author concludes that by the end of the decade, peasants, justifiable embittered and angered over the policy, did not approve or conform to collectivization as the states had intended it to be, but rather, \\"modified the kolkhoz (collective farm) so that it fit their own purposes as well as the state's\\" (p. 4). According to Fitzpatrick, by the end of the 1930's, \\"similar cultural patterns of resistance and adaptation\\" had spread throughout rural Russia despite well-entrenched ethnic and cultural ways of life. Fitzpatrick clearly shows why, in the summer of 1941, many peasants consequently regarded the invading Germans as liberators to the repressive Stalin regime. The author also explains how the initial decade of collectivization differentiated from the \\"kolkhoz amalgamations\\" of the post war period.                 Utilizing a narrative approach, Fitzpatrick provides us with nearly every aspect of life within the peasant village while simultaneously presenting a balance of political imagery from the Soviet regime. This combination of predominately social and cultural history along with an easily flowing narrative is what makes Fitzpatrick a leading scholar of this genre. The focus on the peasant village itself is what sets this study apart from other similar works. From Fitzpatrick's pages, we learn that the peasant village was not as united an entity around an earthly neighborly bond as one would suspect. In fact, the typical village was deceivingly factious. These animosities based on class are deeply rooted in the Emancipation (1861) and Stolypin (1905) reforms and, are perhaps exhibited best in the long-standing resentments between the Bedniaks and Kulaks. Stalin's systematic dekulakization demonstrated the threat the latter posed to the state's exploitive machinations and, as Fitzpatrick clearly shows, undermined the egalitarian objectives of collectivization. Nor, were the majority of peasants typically uneducated. This aspect is revealed in the numerous letters of peasant grievances culled from various archival depositories and delightfully reproduced within the pages of Fitzpatrick's work. Moreover, the theme of education is further illustrated by what is perhaps the most positive reform to emerge from collectivization: the rapid growth of rural schools. Fitzpatrick succeeds in differentiating between the social and cultural realities of the peasant village and the regimes propagandist illusions of the regime's ideal kolkhoz (Potemkin village). These differentiations in status played a significant role in the form of resistance the members of the peasant village chose to incorporate.                 Fitzpatrick gleans from a rich deposit of archival and published sources. The former make up the bulk of her work, however, the book was published at a time when still more Soviet archives were being made available too western eyes. But Fitzpatrick is no stranger to Russian language material and even with more resources becoming available, it is doubtful whether it would have added substantially or fundamentally altered the scope of this book. As Fitzpatrick concludes, the purpose of collectivization \\"to incorporate the Russian village (culturally and politically) into the emerging Soviet nation-failed (p. 314). In a play on Eugen Weber's classic study (Peasants into Frenchmen: The Modernization of Rural France 1815-1914 [1976]) collectivization did not turn \\"peasants into Soviets\\" (p. 314), at least not before World War II. Sheila Fitzpatrick is essential reading for anyone seriously interested in modern Russian history.aks. Stalin's systematic dekulakization demonstrated the threat the latter posed to the state's exploitive machinations and, as Fitzpatrick clearly shows, undermined the egalitarian objectives of collectivization. Nor, were the majority of peasants typically uneducated. This aspect is revealed in the numerous letters of peasant grievances culled from various archival depositories and delightfully reproduced within the pages of Fitzpatrick's work. Moreover, the theme of education is further illustrated by what is perhaps the most positive reform to emerge from collectivization: the rapid growth of rural schools. Fitzpatrick succeeds in differentiating between the social and cultural realities of the peasant village and the regimes propagandist illusions of the regime's ideal kolkhoz (Potemkin village). These differentiations in status played a significant role in the form of resistance the members of the peasant village chose to incorporate. Fitzpatrick gleans from a rich deposit of archival and published sources. The former make up the bulk of her work, however, the book was published at a time when still more Soviet archives were being made available too western eyes. But Fitzpatrick is no stranger to Russian language material and even with more resources becoming available, it is doubtful whether it would have added substantially or fundamentally altered the scope of this book. As Fitzpatrick concludes, the purpose of collectivization \\"to incorporate the Russian village (culturally and politically) into the emerging Soviet nation-failed (p. 314). In a play on Eugen Weber's classic study (Peasants into Frenchmen: The Modernization of Rural France 1815-1914 [1976]) collectivization did not turn \\"peasants into Soviets\\" (p. 314), at least not before World War II. Sheila Fitzpatrick is essential reading for anyone seriously interested in modern Russian history.	2005-07-26
US	52858201	R1VE50MVCMLMNS	0415152348	64743488	Stalinism: New Directions (Rewriting Histories)	Books	4	12	14	N	N	A Vibrant Window into the New Russian Historical Methods	Sheila Fitzpatrick has put together an anthology of essays from the \\"new generation\\" of Russian/Soviet scholars to emerge within the last decade. The thread of methodology incorporated here harbors on the social/cultural with a sprinkling of post-modernism with its emphasis on rhetoric and language. All of the essays rely heavily on the availability of new archival sources since the collapse of the former Soviet Union in 1991. Sarah Davies (\\"'Us Against Them': Social Identity in Soviet Russia, 1934-41\\") reveals the \\"popular mood\\" of Soviet society through her analysis of anonymous hate mail sent to various ruling boroughs from the \\"little people\\" (pp. 47, 55). One is amazed at the oftentimes-brazen attacks coming from a population living within a \\"totalitarian\\" state that promotes terror to achieve its political ends. This article is one of the highlights of the book. The Soviet individual is the topic of three of the book's essays. Jochen Hellbeck's (\\"Fashioning the Stalinist Soul: The Diary of Stepan Podlubnyi, 1931-39) psychoanalysis of the diary of a Kulak's son to reveal one's inner turmoil of conforming to the new Soviet society raises some interesting questions about historical methodology. Vladimir A. Kozlov (\\"Denunciation and its Functions in Soviet Governance: From the Archive of the Soviet Ministry of Internal Affairs, 1944-53\\") employs a similar approach to explore motivations of written denunciations in the post World War II period. In a slightly different vain, Alexei Kojevnikov (\\"Games of Stalinist Democracy: Ideological Discussions in Soviet Sciences 1947-52\\") argues against the Lysenko model claiming not all Soviet scholars and scientist paid lip service to the ruling body. Other pieces take a look at the needs of Soviet society. Julie Hessler (\\"Cultured Trade: The Stalinist Turn Towards Consumerism\\") believes the mindset of Soviet citizens remained fixed on a \\"culture of shortages\\" in spite of official policies to promote a culture of consumerism (p. 194). Vadim Volkov (The Concept of Kul'turnost': Notes on the Stalinist Civilizing Process\\") explores the concept of Kul'turnost' (culturedness) before communism and how the Bolsheviks attempted to modify this intangible notion. As with many recent historians, Lewis H. Siegelbaum (\\"'Dear Conrade, You Ask What We Need': Socialist Paternalism and Soviet Rural 'notables' in the mid-1930's) also gleans from written letters to question the effectiveness of the Soviet reward and punishment system (paternalism) in the 1930's. Perhaps Volkov's article, though noteworthy, seems a bit out of place sandwiched between the other two contributions. Another section is devoted to the effects of terror on the lower rungs of Soviet society. James R. Harris (\\"The Purging of Local Cliques in the Urals Region, 1936-7\\") describes the \\"coping strategies\\" devised by the local regional (oblast) leadership to protect themselves from the state bureaucracies as well as, Stalin's reaction to them (p. 267). Paul M. Hagenloh (\\"'Socially Harmful Elements' and the Great Terror\\") shows the significance broad ranging crime (what he refers to as \\"marginal\\") and the police campaigns to combat it played in the overall picture of the Great Terror. Ethnicity and nationalism provide the themes of the final two essays. Yuri Slezkine (\\"The USSR as a Communal Apartment, or How a Socialist State Promoted Ethnic Particularism\\") shows that the Soviet regime exhibited a sympathetic attitude to nationalist/ethnic groups in spite of its proletarian ideology. In a jingoistic laced essay, Terry Martin (\\"Modernization or Neo-Traditionalism? Ascribed Nationality and Soviet Primordialism\\") utilizes the theory of nationalism (principally Earnest Gellner's interpretations) as \\"an excellent test case\\" (p. 350) to compare the modernization and neo-traditionalist paradigms invented by scholars as a means of studying Russia's diverse ethnic and national population. Complimenting Sheila Fitzpatrick's own contribution to this book (\\"Ascribing Class: The Construction of Social Identity in Soviet Russia\\"), Martin concludes it was the latter paradigm that reigns supreme in spite of the fact that Communism societies do not advocate a return to traditional modes of society. Undoubtedly recent archival material played heavily into the contributions of this book. Of course this is a positive step in the advancement of Russian historiography. An underlying idea throughout this collection of essays, however, prompts one to ask whether the plethora of newly available archival material is, in one respect, the tail wagging the dog. To clarify, we as historians are taught to begin by formulating an historical question, then consult primary and secondary evidence to conform or refute a thesis. Not that this methodology is carved in stone, still, by reading the contributions of the \\"new generation\\" of Russian scholars, this reviewer gets the impression that these researchers are working backwards. That is to say, they travel to the vast reservoirs of new material, collect whatever they can get their hands on and, only then, do they synthesize the material into a workable theory. The tail (new archival material) is wagging the dog (imaginative research). This point is well illustrated in Mark von Hagen's article (\\"The Archival Gold Rush and Historical Agendas in the Post-Soviet Era,\\" Slavic Review, April, 1993) and magnified within this collection of essays.s book (\\"Ascribing Class: The Construction of Social Identity in Soviet Russia\\"), Martin concludes it was the latter paradigm that reigns supreme in spite of the fact that Communism societies do not advocate a return to traditional modes of society. Undoubtedly recent archival material played heavily into the contributions of this book. Of course this is a positive step in the advancement of Russian historiography. An underlying idea throughout this collection of essays, however, prompts one to ask whether the plethora of newly available archival material is, in one respect, the tail wagging the dog. To clarify, we as historians are taught to begin by formulating an historical question, then consult primary and secondary evidence to conform or refute a thesis. Not that this methodology is carved in stone, still, by reading the contributions of the \\"new generation\\" of Russian scholars, this reviewer gets the impression that these researchers are working backwards. That is to say, they travel to the vast reservoirs of new material, collect whatever they can get their hands on and, only then, do they synthesize the material into a workable theory. The tail (new archival material) is wagging the dog (imaginative research). This point is well illustrated in Mark von Hagen's article (\\"The Archival Gold Rush and Historical Agendas in the Post-Soviet Era,\\" Slavic Review, April, 1993) and magnified within this collection of essays.	2005-07-26
US	52858201	R1N4G7BSK2X9TL	081291970X	112334401	The System: An Insider's Life in Soviet Politics	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Essential Cold War Soviet Memoir	As the subtitle of Georgi Arbatov's memoir states, he was an insider of the Soviet political system from the Khrushchev through Gorbachev eras. Arbatov believes this is perhaps the most important period in Soviet history and dubs the years following the death of Joseph Stalin through the 1980's as a period leading up to the Second Russian Revolution. Arbatov tells us a gap exists in the present scholarship and that historians need to concentrate on this important chapter in Soviet history. Written with a great deal of hindsight and sprinkled with digressions and personal regrets, this work nonetheless offers the insightful recollections of a top political advisor to the pinnacle of Soviet leadership. Born in 1923, Arbatov's mother came from a peasant background, while his father, a Civil War veteran, worked in a factory in Odessa. During the purges of the 1930's, Arbatov's father was jailed for a period, but later released due to lack of concrete evidence that he was an enemy of the people. This incident began what Arbatov believed was a passive disillusionment with the Stalin regime that his father silently harbored. Arbatov regrets not fully communicating to his father about his disenchantment before he died in 1954. At eighteen years of age, Arbatov enrolled at the First Moscow Artillery College one day before the Nazi invasion of 21 June 1941. As a result, the usual two-year tenure period was reduced to a six-month crash course. As a young captain, Arbatov commanded a Katyusha rocket battery before being invalided out with a severe case of tuberculosis. Both his father and he had participated in the two climatic events in Soviet history (the Bolshevik Revolution and the Great Patriotic War) that would leave an indelible legacy upon the collective memory of Soviet society and, most importantly, according to Arbatov, hinder the willingness for that society to enter into the \\"recovery from Stalinism\\" (p. 4). After the war Arbatov became a student at Moscow University where he specialized in foreign political affairs. Arbatov and his fellow students were required to read \\"selected\\" works of Marx/Engels and Lenin, but academic policy stipulated that Stalin be quoted two-to-three times more than Lenin and five-to-six times more than Marx/Engels. Arbatov's first job upon graduation was translating significant American, British, and German political, economic, and philosophical literature. It was in this capacity that Arbatov became exposed to the more liberal aspects of social democratic ideology. Arbatov admits, however, that he never fell into the category of dissident or western democratic want-to-be. After Stalin's death, Arbatov worked on the staff of the academic journal \\"Problems of philosophy.\\" This was the beginning of what Arbatov calls oasis of open thinking in the desert of totalitarian dogmatism. Arbatov's most influential work came as a result of his founding the Institute for the Study of USA and Canada in 1968. It was within this \\"oasis\\" that Arbatov would \\"Discover America\\" and gain essential influence to expunge jail sentences for dissident intellectuals. Arbatov believes the Stalin years was the darkest chapter in Soviet history. He writes: \\"Stalinism (more precisely, Stalin's cult of personality) had embedded itself in our society over a long period and by the most radical means.\\" . . . \\"[A] great many people in the leadership adhered to the old Stalinist views, and it would have been difficult, if not impossible, for them to find a place in any other social or political structure; they were simply incapable of doing anything other than carrying out the will from above\\" (p. 137). Arbatov reminds his audience that the specter of Stalinism was in power for thirty-five years and it would take that long for the negative influences to wear off. Arbatov believes the seeds of reform were planted well before Khrushchev's secret speech denouncing Stalin, even while the dictator was still alive. Arbatov praises Khrushchev's courage but believes his motive were purely political, not only to denounce Stalin, but also the conservative hard-liners that were attempting to reinstate themselves into the system and oust him. Arbatov advised and had close relations with the succeeding Russian presidents as well. Arbatov admired Brezhnev in the beginning, however, the effects of old age, failing health, and an addiction to sleeping pills, forced him to bow to the hardliners within the party. Arbatov is against all of the Soviet Union's armed interventions in the Eastern bloc countries and especially Angola. Arbatov personally liked Andropov and praises him for raising Gorbachev out of relative obscurity. Arbatov points out that the two men did not always see eye-to-eye, and mentions some character flaws Andropov possessed, such as indecisiveness. Arbatov attributes these faults, not only in Andropov, but also in other key figures to the trauma that had been embedded in them as a result of working under the Stalin regime. Arbatov recalls this sense of foreboding, regarding the possibility of another totalitarian dictator like Stalin coming to power, permeated many of those, including himself that had worked so hard to pave the way for better relations with the west and internal reform. This fear would surface again in 1992-93 with Arbatov's disagreements over policies within the Yeltsin presidency. Arbatov admits that writing his memoirs while so many of the turbulent events were still taking place was difficult. Still, the mixture of hindsight and personal regrets are obvious. His remembrances are not overly self-serving, yet he shifts back and forth from participant to outside observer. The digressions within the chronological framework are a mild distraction, while some of the chapters are completely out of sequential order. The devastating affects of Stalinism and the dread of the Soviet Union returning to just such a totalitarian \\"system\\" are two of the prominent themes throughout the book. I recommend the work, however it should be read with care.ev's courage but believes his motive were purely political, not only to denounce Stalin, but also the conservative hard-liners that were attempting to reinstate themselves into the system and oust him. Arbatov advised and had close relations with the succeeding Russian presidents as well. Arbatov admired Brezhnev in the beginning, however, the effects of old age, failing health, and an addiction to sleeping pills, forced him to bow to the hardliners within the party. Arbatov is against all of the Soviet Union's armed interventions in the Eastern bloc countries and especially Angola. Arbatov personally liked Andropov and praises him for raising Gorbachev out of relative obscurity. Arbatov points out that the two men did not always see eye-to-eye, and mentions some character flaws Andropov possessed, such as indecisiveness. Arbatov attributes these faults, not only in Andropov, but also in other key figures to the trauma that had been embedded in them as a result of working under the Stalin regime. Arbatov recalls this sense of foreboding, regarding the possibility of another totalitarian dictator like Stalin coming to power, permeated many of those, including himself that had worked so hard to pave the way for better relations with the west and internal reform. This fear would surface again in 1992-93 with Arbatov's disagreements over policies within the Yeltsin presidency. Arbatov admits that writing his memoirs while so many of the turbulent events were still taking place was difficult. Still, the mixture of hindsight and personal regrets are obvious. His remembrances are not overly self-serving, yet he shifts back and forth from participant to outside observer. The digressions within the chronological framework are a mild distraction, while some of the chapters are completely out of sequential order. The devastating affects of Stalinism and the dread of the Soviet Union returning to just such a totalitarian \\"system\\" are two of the prominent themes throughout the book. I recommend the work, however it should be read with care.	2005-07-26
US	52858201	RFG337NVCCYMN	0765602288	477294369	Russia After the War: Hopes, Illusions and Disappointments, 1945-1957 (The New Russian History)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Fine Telling of Rising From the Ashes!	Elena Zubkova has written a psychological and social profile of Russian society in the twelve years following the end of World War II based on public opinion. As the sub-title aptly suggests, the public mood incased in a barracks mentality hoped for liberalization of government policy, economic reform, the end of food rationing, and perhaps even the abolishment of the collective farm system. Instead, Russian society was met with famine, repression of religion, any hopes of a democratic free market system, and a muffling of literary intellectuals and disappointment. Written chronologically, Zubkova gauges public opinion in its desire for reform from the years immediately following the war until the so-called \\"Thaw\\" following the death of Joseph Stalin. The author concludes a constant tug-of-war existed between the government elites, who carefully took into account public opinion and, an insecure society afraid to demand reforms outside the realm of existing socialist policy. The result was a string of what the author refers to as \\"missed opportunities\\" (p. 204).                 The author, who earned her PhD at the Institute of Russian History, utilizes a social history approach sprinkled with psychohistory methodologies. Quantitative statistics and economic analysis also plays a vital role in her research. The bulk of Zubkova's evidence, however, comes from the Central Committee Archive in the form of letters and correspondence voicing the public mood. In addition, memoirs, diaries, literary fiction, and interviews are consulted. The result is a comparatively diverse view reminiscent of Sheila Fitzpatrick's work of the 1920's Russian Peasant (Stalin's Peasants, [1994], See my Amazon review).                 In the first part of the book, \\"Strategies of Survival,\\" Zubkova describes the utter devastation of the Russian countryside and the influx of returning war veterans juxtaposed with masses of displaced persons hoping to salvage worn-torn lives and begin a better future. As with the Great War proceeding, the war became the most monumental experience of a whole generation. It created a duality of what the author calls a \\"spirit of freedom\\" mixed with an attitude of \\"us and them\\" (p. 19). Finding work, adequate housing and food became immediate problems on an enormous scale and quickly replaced illusionary post-war expectations.                 Part II, \\"The Illusion of Liberalization\\" reveals the first appearance of missed opportunities. Zubkova describes how public opinion cried out for the abolishment of the collective farm system and asked why when our people are starving is the government exporting food abroad. Religion, which had been manipulated by the regime for its own purposes, was not gradually being squelched, while intellectuals examined ideas for economic and social reform. Interestingly, one suggestion called for a variance of the free market system only to have the idea deemed subversive towards socialist ideology.                 The third part, \\"Repression,\\" captures the descent and resistance between 1947 and 1953. Zubkova demonstrates that immediately following the war, Russian society was still encapsulated within a mindset of sacrifice. They revered Stalin as the hero of the Great Patriotic War and justified his allowing the country to sink into famine as total ignorance to the situation of \\"he knows what he is doing\\" attitude. As the author explains, the gulf between the war and peacetime began to widen by 1947. Resistance among the scholarly community and youth groups began to materialize. The regime answered with increased arrests and exiles to GULAG, which the author clearly illustrates with disturbing figures.                 The final part of the book examines \\"The Thaw.\\" Stalin's death revealed to the masses that he was all too human and caused panic and uncertainty for the future. Soon, however, a new public consciousness emerged, absorbed in literature and the inclination for an open society. Zubkova argues, this period of euphoria was short-lived, however, as the GULAG system, expressed in the pen of Alexander Solzhenitsyn, revealed the true nature of Stalinism leading to the creation of the \\"cult of personality\\" and the duality of Stalin's persona.                 As Zubkova clearly shows, the war and Stalin evidently left an indelible mark of neuroticism on Russian society. How could the man who led his country to victory over the fascist threat have become the man Khrushchev and others revealed him to be? Zubkova points out, however, as with past generations; the generation of 1945 had historical presidents. This legacy was grounded in hate; an historical emotion that would have to be overcome before the proverbial tug-of-war would end. All-in-all, a fine book, and highly recommended.ova argues, this period of euphoria was short-lived, however, as the GULAG system, expressed in the pen of Alexander Solzhenitsyn, revealed the true nature of Stalinism leading to the creation of the \\"cult of personality\\" and the duality of Stalin's persona. As Zubkova clearly shows, the war and Stalin evidently left an indelible mark of neuroticism on Russian society. How could the man who led his country to victory over the fascist threat have become the man Khrushchev and others revealed him to be? Zubkova points out, however, as with past generations; the generation of 1945 had historical presidents. This legacy was grounded in hate; an historical emotion that would have to be overcome before the proverbial tug-of-war would end. All-in-all, a fine book, and highly recommended.	2005-07-26
US	52858201	R2CCMF3FB2BHZ2	0674784065	303951160	The Russians in Germany: A History of the Soviet Zone of Occupation, 1945-1949	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Colossal Treatment of the "Other" Zone of Occupation!	Norman M. Naimark, Robert and Florence McDonnell Professor of East European Studies at Stanford University, has written an admirable treatment of a rarely touched topic: the Soviet occupation of Germany from 1945 to the creation of the German Democratic Republic (GDR) in 1949. Naimark draws from a wealth of freshly released Russian archival material, and newly tapped GDR sources. The result is a thematically arranged work that argues the Soviet regime failed in its governing policies in the occupational zone of Germany as well as, failing to win the hearts and minds of the East German people. Naimark combines a smooth blend of social and political history along with an engaging narrative to develop his argument. Chapter One chronicles the fledgling attempts of the Russians to administer the newly \\"liberated\\" territories. He describes the role the Soviet Military Administration in Germany (SVAG) played in administrating the region, and providing for the cultural and educational welfare of the Red Army troops. The chapter concludes with the transformation from a military government to a puppet run by the \\"Moscow\\" Germans (Socialist Unity Part of Germany, SED) under the control of figurehead Walter Ulbricht.                 The author wastes no time in switching gears. Chapter two describes the wholesale rape of German women, and plunder of towns and villages that reached epidemic proportions. This is by far the most disturbing section of the book in spite of Naimark's gallant efforts at objectivity. The author suggests it was this barbaric behavior more than any other contributing factors that caused the bitter relationship and eventual demise of the GDR. What was once a potential worthy ally and friend, of the Soviet Union, he argues, eventually became a burden of resentment and hatred. The author stresses in this chapter that the abuse and rape of German women continued well into 1947 and there were still significant rapes occurring in 1949. This was not a crime committed solely by war-weary frontline soldiers seeking reprisals and intent on taking revenge on the civilian populous. Rather, it occurred at all levels of the military. Officers as well as rank and file became perpetrators. Literally, German females from age eight to eighty became victims. Oftentimes the crime was committed in full view of family members, particularity husbands. Naimark weighs all the factors for this heinous behavior. Obvious reasons such as lack of control by military authorities and alcoholism are examined. In a few instances, officers and even a NKVD agent were shot when they tried to intervene in an attack of a German woman. Naimark admits Soviet documents are still scarce, and Joseph Stalin's reaction to the behavior of his troops is not well known. He suggests, however, that Stalin turned a blind ear and contributed the reports to mere Western propaganda. A counter-propaganda campaigned was launched by their Socialist Germen brethren proclaiming in the German press that German women were blamed for the spread of venereal disease among the Soviet military. Naimark considers some social and psychological determinates as well. Turning to a true gender study, Naimark explores the emotional and psychological effects this behavior had on German men. After the war, German women out-numbered the male population as most of the marriage aged men were either killed or maimed in the six-years of war. What able-bodied German men returned, quickly reclaimed the jobs the women held. As a result, German women were regulated to bucket brigades clearing the rubble from the leveled German cities. Divorce and abortion quickly rose throughout German society, the former, claims Naimark was a result of the emotional blow the abuse of German women had on the male population. In short, the Russians were delivering another form of total war, an emotional and psychotically blow to already vanquished German males that felt obligated by nature to defendtheir womenfolk, but helpless in its execution. These examples support Naimark's contentions, that this scar on society became a lasting legacy that permeated East Germany until its collapse in 1989. Placing the rape chapter and its social consequences near the beginning of the book creates an emotional impact that dominates the remaining chapters. Economically and politically, Naimark argues that the Soviet regime had no long-term goals for the establishment of the East German state. The author points out that the only model the Soviets had to utilize was that of the New Economic Policy (NEP) and collectivization. Major land distributions and the plundering of what was left of German industry had a detrimental affect of the German economy. The author ties in a chapter on Soviet policy making decisions and examines such institutions as Colonel Sergei Tiul'panov's Propaganda Administration. Naimark asserts that Marxist/Leninist ideology alone does not make for a successful Soviet block state in spite of the temptation the new archives presents to reexamine the rhetoric of the top Soviet leaders. A chapter on culture and education rounds out the work. The thematic approach makes for a slight unevenness, as each lengthy chapter could be an independent publication in its own right, particularly the upsetting topic of rape and plunder. Naimark utilizes an impressive array of Soviet and East German sources throughout. He also gleans from western archival material, particularly that of the Hoover Institute. Secondary sources in English seem to be lacking, however, perhaps reflecting the deficiency of English language scholarship on this much over-looked subject. The author admits that more material is yet to be revealed making this, like several other revisionists work within the realm of Soviet studies, an avenue to build upon through yet further revisions. Aside from these slight distractions, this work is a welcome addition to the birth of the Cold War period.but helpless in its execution. These examples support Naimark's contentions, that this scar on society became a lasting legacy that permeated East Germany until its collapse in 1989. Placing the rape chapter and its social consequences near the beginning of the book creates an emotional impact that dominates the remaining chapters. Economically and politically, Naimark argues that the Soviet regime had no long-term goals for the establishment of the East German state. The author points out that the only model the Soviets had to utilize was that of the New Economic Policy (NEP) and collectivization. Major land distributions and the plundering of what was left of German industry had a detrimental affect of the German economy. The author ties in a chapter on Soviet policy making decisions and examines such institutions as Colonel Sergei Tiul'panov's Propaganda Administration. Naimark asserts that Marxist/Leninist ideology alone does not make for a successful Soviet block state in spite of the temptation the new archives presents to reexamine the rhetoric of the top Soviet leaders. A chapter on culture and education rounds out the work. The thematic approach makes for a slight unevenness, as each lengthy chapter could be an independent publication in its own right, particularly the upsetting topic of rape and plunder. Naimark utilizes an impressive array of Soviet and East German sources throughout. He also gleans from western archival material, particularly that of the Hoover Institute. Secondary sources in English seem to be lacking, however, perhaps reflecting the deficiency of English language scholarship on this much over-looked subject. The author admits that more material is yet to be revealed making this, like several other revisionists work within the realm of Soviet studies, an avenue to build upon through yet further revisions. Aside from these slight distractions, this work is a welcome addition to the birth of the Cold War period.	2005-07-26
US	52858201	RDBXCY6H9EZ57	0140271694	551695850	Russia's War: A History of the Soviet Effort: 1941-1945	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Most Reader Friendly Synopsis of the Russian Front!	Richard Overy argues the USSR persevered in a war that by all accounts, it should have lost. By all appearances, the Soviet Union in 1941 suffered from backwardness both economically, as well as, militarily. At least this is what Hitler was counting on when he decided to undertake the enormous task of invading the Soviet Union in June. Overy argues it was the combined factors of economic mobilization, a flexible military command structure, and, most importantly, the enduring spirit on the Russian people that enabled Stalin's Russia to emerge victorious. A central theme throughout the book is Russia's ability to bounce back after a series of initial demoralizing defeats. Nowhere, says Overy, is the term \\"total war\\" more applicable than to the Russian people during what became known as the \\"Great Patriotic War.\\" The author takes a narrative approach incorporating social history with military accounts. Paradoxically, however, the social aspect of this work outweighs the military analysis. In essence, this contradiction in methodologies from what one might expect from an actual military historian provides the book's strength. The book is intended to be a companion volume to a ten-part film documentary produced by the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC). Accordingly, the book's ten chapters correspond to the video titles. In keeping with the film's structure, Overy seldom strays from the Russian perspective. The result is a refreshing treatment of the Eastern front in the Second World War.                 The author mainly consults secondary sources and scholarly journal articles throughout the text. At the same time, he makes every attempt to utilize the most recent publications. Surprisingly, however, Overy fails to consult Russian language sources. Instead, he gleans from other's research into the recently opened archival material. This second-hand gathering of information is also apparent with regard to casualty figures for which he has come under some criticism. Unfortunately, his reluctance to consult Russian language sources reinforces the fact that Russian scholarship perhaps lies beyond the grasp of his expertise. Overy also incorporates interviews from Russian participants, an obvious reflection of the film documentary.                 It is difficult to convey the causes and affects of as vast a topic as the Great Patriotic War in a one-volume treatment. Within these limitations, however, Overy has accomplished his task admirably with a clear and engaging style. Overy attempts to dispel some popular myths utilizing new evidence, which, as already mentioned, he acquired second hand. For instance, the author suggests Stalin's military purges of the 1930's did not undermine Russian military effectiveness as commonly believed, but rather, cleared much dead wood and made way for a younger professionally trained officer corps. Secondly, Overy shows how Stalin was prepared to intervene militarily if Hitler invaded Czechoslovakia. Lastly, Overy contends the second Molotov pact actually proved advantageous to Stalin allowing him to buy time for what he perceived as an inevitable war with Germany. Again, owing to limited space, only the most prominent battles such as Moscow, Stalingrad, Leningrad, Kursk, and Berlin are examined within these pages. As a result, the book contains an imbalance of battle narrative and engaging military analysis found in other works as: John Erickson's seminal two-volume standard \\"The Road to Stalingrad\\" (1975; 1999) and \\"The Road to Berlin\\" (1983; 1999) and, more recently, David M Glantz & Jonathan House \\"When Titans Clashed\\" (1995. See my Amazon review). It is the seldom-covered aspects of the war, on the Eastern Front however, that shine in Overy's book. The chapter describing \\"The Fight from Within: Collaboration, Terror, and Resistance\\" (pp. 159-189) is the strongest component. Overy's coverage of mounted Cossack bands fighting alongside the Germans against theirown countrymen; the Kaminsky Brigade slaughtering Polish civilians; Andrei Vlasov's change of ideological heart to form and lead an ill-fated Russian Liberation Army are topics not usually found in other treatments of the Russian front. Overy also includes the plight of the Polish Jews and Partisan warfare and the German reaction to it. Overy's description of Partisan bands (otriad) roving the countryside, living off the land at the expense of starving Russian peasants adds yet another dimension to this complex and bitter struggle. It is this social element, and friendly readability that makes this volume a significant addition to the history of the Soviet Union in World War II.igade slaughtering Polish civilians; Andrei Vlasov's change of ideological heart to form and lead an ill-fated Russian Liberation Army are topics not usually found in other treatments of the Russian front. Overy also includes the plight of the Polish Jews and Partisan warfare and the German reaction to it. Overy's description of Partisan bands (otriad) roving the countryside, living off the land at the expense of starving Russian peasants adds yet another dimension to this complex and bitter struggle. It is this social element, and friendly readability that makes this volume a significant addition to the history of the Soviet Union in World War II.	2005-07-26
US	52858201	R221G5ZOURQX72	0300052618	371279387	The Generals of Saratoga: John Burgoyne and Horatio Gates	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Explicit Window into Eighteenth Century Class Divisions	Max M. Mintz illustrates some interesting parallels in this well-received dual biography. Evidence suggests that John Burgoyne and Horatio Gates were both illegitimate children amid the strict class barriers of eighteenth century England. As was common practice, both men would purchase their commissions more to improve social status rather than to mature any hidden military virtues. Coincidentally, both began their military careers as lieutenants in the same regiment. As their careers progressed, both men would ally themselves politically, or form convenient friendships in order to advance in rank and enhance upward mobility. This vying for social status is the strongest theme in Mintz's work. These two men, destined to oppose one another on the battlefield at a crucial turning point of the American Revolution, were born of dissimilar class origins. Unforeseen circumstances, however, would equalize both class and education ultimately resulting in commissions,  reserved only for gentlemen.  John Burgoyne was born of privilege in 1723. His father, a captain, was a compulsive gambler, and eventually landed in debtor's prison. The Burgoyne's landlord was Lord Bingley, a wealthy Yorkshire politician. Bingley was exceedingly generous to the Burgoyne's, and it was the curious nature of his kindness that has led scholars to believe he was the boy's real father. He paid off all of Captain Burgoyne's gambling debts, and provided the tuition for John's education at Westminster School, famous for its military and political alumni. According to Mintz, no records of Horatio Gate's birth were ever found, however, it is believed he was  born four years after Burgoyne, to working class parents. His mother Dorothy became a housekeeper for the Duke of Bolton, a privileged aristocrat, and womanizer. His father, Robert Gates, was a boatman who peddling produce along the Thames River. Like the Burgoyne's, the Gates family would rise socially from their association with Bolton. Eventually, Horatio would attend a primary school reserved solely for the working class and rub elbows with the aristocracy. Through Bolton's influence, Robert would advance to a position that would elevate his son Horatio to the level of that of a gentleman, and consequently make him eligible to buy an officer's commission. Mintz intricately demonstrates how officer commissions in the eighteenth century were commodities to be bought and sold at will, not a profession. Many years of buying, selling, and resigning of commissions, intermingled with bits of luck, a smattering of merit, and political maneuvering ensued for both men. Burgoyne would see action on the continent during the War of Austrian Succession, and conduct raids on the Normandy coast during the Seven Years War. He fought bravely in Portugal and Spain, and entered Parliament. Gates took to soldiering immediately, and found that he was equally popular with aristocrats and commoners. Lord Charles Cornwallis had observed Gates and admired his excellent staff skills. Gates was later wounded in the infamous Braddock Expedition, settled in Virginia, embraced American independence, and gained a commission in George Washington's army.  After Gates defeated Burgoyne at Saratoga, he, attempted to rest on his laurels, and pushed for an invasion of Canada. Instead he was sent to the southern campaign only to be replaced by Nathaniel Green and faded into obscurity. Burgoyne returned to Parliament as a spokesman for the group opposing the war. In his later years, he took a mistress and fathered four children. He wrote plays and composed music, never losing his refined standing.Mintz provides a vital window into officership, and class divisions during the eighteenth century. He does so utilizing mostly primary sources and period literature. Mintz offers so much more than a mere telling of the Battle of Saratoga. Only two short chapters (could have been one) covers the battle itself, but this is no shortcoming. Sprinkled with period illustrations, and adequate maps, this book is a must for anyone seriously interested in this period in military history. Five-stars, Bravo!eriod illustrations, and adequate maps, this book is a must for anyone seriously interested in this period in military history. Five-stars, Bravo!	2005-02-17
US	52858201	RI4RX3RGK0BL4	0521572738	867457582	Giant of the Grand Si&#232;cle: The French Army, 1610-1715	Books	5	11	13	N	Y	Fine Example of the "New Military History"	John A. Lynn, preeminent scholar of French military history, and logistics, prior to the nineteenth century, offers a follow-up to his classic: _Bayonets of the Republic:..._ (1984). Here he argues the French Army of the Grand Siecle (seventeenth century) was the catalyst for state formation. Reminiscent of the tail wagging the dog, Lynn argues, it was military expansion, and reforms that formed a model for the state. However, he emphasizes that this expansion was not revolutionary. Instead, development grew incrementally out of older practices. As a result,  there remained a continuity of \\"absolutism\\" during this period, not a break from it, as is the common belief among some historians. Essentially, Lynn shows how the French monarchy raised regiments, without regard for how they would be fed or supplied. They were then turned loose on the rural French countryside with sometimes disastrous results.The author utilizes a thematic approach to take the reader on what he calls a \\"journey of understanding.\\" The author devotes substantial coverage to economics and finance. In fact, the majority of the book focuses on economic and social history of the Army of the Grand Siecle with heavy emphasis on logistics and supply. These topics takes precedence over the standard fare of strategy, tactics, campaigns and battles.  Even the section devoted to weapons tends to stress supply above technology. Throughout this intricate tapestry of subject matter, Lynn challenges arguments laid down by other military historians. For example, it is not surprising that Lynn, who has written widely on the topic of logistics, has harsh criticisms levelled at Martin Van Creveld, author of _Supplying War: Logistics from Wellington to Patton_ (Cambridge: 1977).  Other themes covered include: \\"The Tax of Violence,\\" and the raping of civilian women by French soldiers as a form of extortion from being under-paid and inadequately supplied; \\"The Culture of Command,\\" recruitment, desertion, discipline, morale and motivation, round out the book nicely. Along the way, the author has consulted an impressive array of French archival resources gleaned from The Archives Nationales, Service Historique de l'Armee de Terre, Bibliotheque Nationale and the Archives de Guerre, which he then confusingly abbreviates in copious footnotes. He also culls various primary documents, letters and memoirs. For the most part, however, Lynn refers to secondary source material from a host of French scholars, arranged in an impressive bibliography.  As professor of history at University of Illinois at Urbana-Campaign, Lynn even consults dissertation material from his own Ph.D students.Although the book is short on military campaigning, a major weakness is its lack of maps and illustrations. This is especially apparent when Lynn utilizes a visual illustration as source material. For instance, the author consults an engraving in the text (p. 321) yet, in an accompanying footnote, refers the reader to a plate in another historian's [Philippe Contamine, ed. Histoire militaire de la France vol.1 (Paris, 1992)] work. Geoffrey Parker's (_The Military Revolution: Military Innovation and the Rise of the West, 1500-1800_...see my Amazon review) strength in period illustrations is Lynn's weakness.  For such an immense undertaking, Lynn's writing style is clear and concise. Every section has a clean introduction, and conclusion, with easy transitions from section to section, and topic-to-topic. This friendly writing style makes the development of the narrative flow easily. Overall, the book is a handsome package, though,  perhaps a bit pricey. Lynn has made a significant contribution to the field by stressing the social aspect of the French army from king right on down to the common rank and file. This book is certainly a splendid example of the \\"new military history,\\" and could serve as a model for similar studies of other armies from other time periods.morale and motivation, round out the book nicely. Along the way, the author has consulted an impressive array of French archival resources gleaned from The Archives Nationales, Service Historique de l'Armee de Terre, Bibliotheque Nationale and the Archives de Guerre, which he then confusingly abbreviates in copious footnotes. He also culls various primary documents, letters and memoirs. For the most part, however, Lynn refers to secondary source material from a host of French scholars, arranged in an impressive bibliography.  As professor of history at University of Illinois at Urbana-Campaign, Lynn even consults dissertation material from his own Ph.D students.Although the book is short on military campaigning, a major weakness is its lack of maps and illustrations. This is especially apparent when Lynn utilizes a visual illustration as source material. For instance, the author consults an engraving in the text (p. 321) yet, in an accompanying footnote, refers the reader to a plate in another historian's [Philippe Contamine, ed. Histoire militaire de la France vol.1 (Paris, 1992)] work. Geoffrey Parker's (_The Military Revolution: Military Innovation and the Rise of the West, 1500-1800_...see my Amazon review) strength in period illustrations is Lynn's weakness.  For such an immense undertaking, Lynn's writing style is clear and concise. Every section has a clean introduction, and conclusion, with easy transitions from section to section, and topic-to-topic. This friendly writing style makes the development of the narrative flow easily. Overall, the book is a handsome package, though,  perhaps a bit pricey. Lynn has made a significant contribution to the field by stressing the social aspect of the French army from king right on down to the common rank and file. This book is certainly a splendid example of the \\"new military history,\\" and could serve as a model for similar studies of other armies from other time periods.	2005-02-13
US	52858201	RP8QIS6NJX4VY	0679738886	5543089	General A.P. Hill: The Story of a Confederate Warrior	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Excellent Coupling of Psycho-History and Battle Narrative	Despite his meteoric rise to command troops in nearly every battle of Robert E. Lee's Army of Northern Virginia, Ambrose Powell Hill was arguable the Confederacy's most underrated general. Rising from a colonel of a Virginia infantry regiment to Major General in command of the new Third Corps, Army of Northern Virginia, A.P. Hill was perhaps best known for leading his Light Division on a forced march from Harper's Ferry to arrive in the nick of time to save Lee from total defeat at the Battle of Antietam/Sharpsburg. James I Robertson Jr. has thoroughly examined the perplexities of a complex man: one who could display the virtues of righteousness and compassion one moment and become impetuous, childish and unforgiving the next. What is more, Robertson's battle narratives are enthralling, placing heavy emphasis on infantry soldiering in the foulest of weather, rugged terrain and the difficulties of communications in an age when battle communiques traveled only as fast as a man could ride a horse. How a man of Hill's temperament, racked by life-long bouts of illness, and wounds handles rapid promotion, and, at which point reaches a level of incompetence, is the theme of Robertson's compelling story. From the age of twelve, young Powell read the exploits of Napoleon Bonaparte and was inspired to become a soldier.  Hill entered West Point in 1842 in the infamous class of 1846. His classmates were Thomas J. Jackson, George Pickett and George McClellan, to name a few. Hill formed an immediate dislike for Jackson that would last for the rest of his life, while forming a close friendship with his roommate McClellan. In 1844, while returning to West Point from summer furlough, Hill contracted gonorrhea in New York City. He was forced to take an extended sick leave home, requiring him to repeat a year of studies. Upon graduation, Hill was commissioned a 2nd Lieutenant in the 2nd U.S. Artillery Regiment.                 Robertson paints Hill's military career after West Point was one of sickness and boredom. In Mexico, Hill came down with typhoid fever that left him bedridden for six weeks. In Florida he would battle disease and boredom for six long years,  especially repeated prostate problems associated with the untreatable venereal disease. Because of poor health, Hill requested to be transferred to a desk job in Washington.                  Hill's gift for staff work brought him to the attention of Jefferson Davis. After Succession, Hill not only chose loyalty to Virginia but also saw war as a chance for rapid promotion.                 Hill was appointed colonel in the 13th Virginia Infantry. He drove his men hard, and trained his regiment to the peak of proficiency. This leadership style would remain a permanent characteristic of A.P. Hill and would produce substantial benefits in future campaigns. Robertson shows a compassionate side of A.P. Hill during this period.  During First Battle of Bull Run/Manassas, Hill would often be seen offering a weary soldier his horse while he walked alongside. He once noticed a sergeant who was obviously sleep deprived, and allowed him to lie down for a couple hours to regain his strength. These acts of kindness did not go unnoticed by his men. Typhoid fever, measles, mumps, diarrhea, dysentery and jaundice soon ran rampant among Hill's regiment.  Much to his chagrin, Hill was held in reserve during the actual battle yet, a rapid series of promotions would soon follow.  Hill was promoted to Brigadier General for the Peninsula Campaign. Hill soon gained a reputation for leading from the front in battle, distinguishable by the red or calico \\"battle shirt\\" he always wore in combat. Soon afterwards, he was promoted to Major General, commanding the infamous Light Division in the Seven Days Battles. In just ninety-days, Hill went from a colonel in charge of one regiment, to major general in charge of a division. Here, the author begins to raise doubt abouthow well Hill handled the transition, while weaving a compelling battle narrative.  Hill's independent nature soon led to clashes with his two immediate superiors. As already mentioned, Hill despised Jackson and he did not care all that much for James Longstreet either. During the Peninsula Campaign, Hill and Longstreet got into a childish squabble that almost had tragic consequences. A war correspondent had been traveling with Hill's headquarters during that campaign. He wrote a series of newspaper articles that drastically inflated Hill's accomplishments at Mechanicsville and Fraser's Farm. According to Robertson, Longstreet felt slighted after he read the articles.  Longstreet then wrote a \\"rebuttal,\\" via his chief of staff, Moxley Sorrel and sent the letter to be published in a rival newspaper. Sorrel routinely acted as official liaison between Hill and Longstreet. After this incident, however, Hill refused to communicate with Sorrel. Consequently, Longstreet placed Hill under arrest. Hill, accosted Lee requesting he be relieved from Longstreet's command. A series of nasty letters passed between Hill and Longstreet until Hill finally challenged Longstreet to a duel. Lee had to quickly intercede to avoid a disaster. Another episode involved Hill's nemesis, Jackson. Lee had devised a plan for Hill's division to cross the Chicahominy River and attack Union forces at Mechanicsville. Hill was to wait until Jackson, enroute from his famed Shenandoah Campaign, arrived to support Hill's attack. On the morning of the scheduled day of the attack; Hill's division was assembled early and ready for battle. Hill's men waited for hours with no sign of Jackson. Finally at 3:00 PM, General Hill crossed the Chicahominy and advanced towards Mechanicsville without \\"Stonewall.\\" Hill successfully drove the Federals from Mechanicsville; however, they dug in at Beaver Dam Creek and could not be dislodged. As a result, the day ended in  stalemate with Hill suffering a high butcher's bill.Naturally, Hill blamed Jackson for failing to arrive at the rendezvous on time. The relationship between Hill and Jackson worsened, until Hill was ultimately placed under arrest for a second time, and, as punishment, Lee sent Hill to act as  rear guard of Lee's army.  This is how the Light Division, hitherto marching at the van , would find itself in Harper's Ferry while the Battle of Antietam was under way. As we know, Hill would redeem himself by saving Lee from possible defeat, and command a corps at Gettysburg. A federal sharpshooter ended the life of Gen. A.P. Hill on April 2, 1865, killing him while Hill reconnoitered his forward positions at Petersburg.  Robertson's analysis of Hill's vulnerable pride, bordering on disrespect, the childish in-fighting within Lee's command, coupled with forceful battle narrative, makes this book difficult to put down. Five-stars and highly recommended!ving a compelling battle narrative.  Hill's independent nature soon led to clashes with his two immediate superiors. As already mentioned, Hill despised Jackson and he did not care all that much for James Longstreet either. During the Peninsula Campaign, Hill and Longstreet got into a childish squabble that almost had tragic consequences. A war correspondent had been traveling with Hill's headquarters during that campaign. He wrote a series of newspaper articles that drastically inflated Hill's accomplishments at Mechanicsville and Fraser's Farm. According to Robertson, Longstreet felt slighted after he read the articles.  Longstreet then wrote a \\"rebuttal,\\" via his chief of staff, Moxley Sorrel and sent the letter to be published in a rival newspaper. Sorrel routinely acted as official liaison between Hill and Longstreet. After this incident, however, Hill refused to communicate with Sorrel. Consequently, Longstreet placed Hill under arrest. Hill, accosted Lee requesting he be relieved from Longstreet's command. A series of nasty letters passed between Hill and Longstreet until Hill finally challenged Longstreet to a duel. Lee had to quickly intercede to avoid a disaster. Another episode involved Hill's nemesis, Jackson. Lee had devised a plan for Hill's division to cross the Chicahominy River and attack Union forces at Mechanicsville. Hill was to wait until Jackson, enroute from his famed Shenandoah Campaign, arrived to support Hill's attack. On the morning of the scheduled day of the attack; Hill's division was assembled early and ready for battle. Hill's men waited for hours with no sign of Jackson. Finally at 3:00 PM, General Hill crossed the Chicahominy and advanced towards Mechanicsville without \\"Stonewall.\\" Hill successfully drove the Federals from Mechanicsville; however, they dug in at Beaver Dam Creek and could not be dislodged. As a result, the day ended in  stalemate with Hill suffering a high butcher's bill.Naturally, Hill blamed Jackson for failing toarrive at the rendezvous on time. The relationship between Hill and Jackson worsened, until Hill was ultimately placed under arrest for a second time, and, as punishment, Lee sent Hill to act as  rear guard of Lee's army.  This is how the Light Division, hitherto marching at the van , would find itself in Harper's Ferry while the Battle of Antietam was under way. As we know, Hill would redeem himself by saving Lee from possible defeat, and command a corps at Gettysburg. A federal sharpshooter ended the life of Gen. A.P. Hill on April 2, 1865, killing him while Hill reconnoitered his forward positions at Petersburg.   Robertson's analysis of Hill's vulnerable pride, bordering on disrespect, the childish in-fighting within Lee's command, coupled with forceful battle narrative, makes this book difficult to put down. Five-stars and highly recommended!	2005-02-11
US	52858201	R39IWZ9VEGC7F8	0803295510	500446258	Frontier Regulars: The United States Army and the Indian, 1866-1891	Books	5	45	48	N	N	Objective, Unsympathetic, and Brilliantly Delivered	Robert M. Utley offers the sequel to his  _Frontiersmen in Blue: The United States Army and the Indian 1848-1865_. In this second installment, Utley attempts to eradicate the myth of the frontier Army as blazing a path of glory westward that has been portrayed in Hollywood movies. Rather, he argues the frontier regular Army was only one of several contributing factors to the subjugation of the Native Americans. Other determinants such as westward expansion by waves of immigrants, and professional buffalo hunters attributed as much, if not more, to the Indian demise as did the soldiers. In a sense, Utley offers the antithesis to Dee Brown's _Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee_. The author highlights the Army's role as a frontier police force carrying out civilian policy that lacked cohesive strategy against the Native Americans. Utley begins with a general survey of the United States Army in the post-Civil War years. The author outlines the relationship between the War Department, its near autonomous bureaus, Congress, and the Executive Branch, with brief discussions into the tenures of Generals Ulysses S. Grant, William T. Sherman, command-staff functions, and logistics. Chapters on weapons & equipment, and outpost life round out the first half of the book. Utley remains objective and unsympathetic at times to Blue Coat and Indian alike. For example, in his discussion of General George Armstrong Custer's defeat at the Little Big Horn, Utley, a noted Custer scholar, blames the boy general for the debacle. The author cites several reasons for the defeat of the 7th Cavalry.  On the surrender of Geronimo in 1886, Utley credits both Generals George Crook and General Nelson Miles equally for their improvisations in overcoming logistical hardships in the harsh Sierra Madre Mountains. Acknowledging that the elimination of the Chiricahua Apache from Arizona was the prerequisite for re-establishing peace to the area, Utley does not sympathize with Geronimo's plight. It was only after the removal of the Chiricahuas, hostile and neutral alike, argues Utley, that peace was finally brought to the Southwest. In the final episode of the Indian wars: Wounded Knee, Utley engages in mere semantics. The author depicts Wounded Knee as a \\"tragedy\\" not a \\"massacre,\\" the term generally preferred by the Indians. Utley feels the idiom inappropriate because \\"massacre,\\" points to \\"deliberate and indiscriminate slaughter\\" which, he feels this occurrence was not. Utley believes, the soldiers tried to restrain from firing on women and children, however, in the melee, hitting innocent non-combatants was unavoidable. In the chapter titled \\"The Problem of Doctrine,\\" Utley sees the Indian wars of the late nineteenth century through lensesmirroring the war in Vietnam (this book was first published in 1973). Utley observes the U.S. Army applied conventional tactics in an unconventional war. He illustrates how hostile Indians were oftentimes indistinguishable from peaceful reservation Indians. The hostiles utilized guerrilla tactics-hit and run raids and disappeared into the night. By day, the warrior factions would easily blend back into the general Indian population. If this be the case, it can be argued that the United States military had learned nothing from its own history. Robert M.Utley, often seen on the History Channel, and preeminent military historian of the period, has once again consulted a vast array of archival material. His evidence is equally balanced between primary and secondary sources, with endnotes after every chapter. The author consults an impressive collection of Government documents including a detailed list of Congressional and Senate papers in an impressive bibliography. Generous, easy to read maps, and a peppering of period photographs make this an essential addition to any library.ter the removal of the Chiricahuas, hostile and neutral alike, argues Utley, that peace was finally brought to the Southwest. In the final episode of the Indian wars: Wounded Knee, Utley engages in mere semantics. The author depicts Wounded Knee as a \\"tragedy\\" not a \\"massacre,\\" the term generally preferred by the Indians. Utley feels the idiom inappropriate because \\"massacre,\\" points to \\"deliberate and indiscriminate slaughter\\" which, he feels this occurrence was not. Utley believes, the soldiers tried to restrain from firing on women and children, however, in the melee, hitting innocent non-combatants was unavoidable. In the chapter titled \\"The Problem of Doctrine,\\" Utley sees the Indian wars of the late nineteenth century through lensesmirroring the war in Vietnam (this book was first published in 1973). Utley observes the U.S. Army applied conventional tactics in an unconventional war. He illustrates how hostile Indians were oftentimes indistinguishable from peaceful reservation Indians. The hostiles utilized guerrilla tactics-hit and run raids and disappeared into the night. By day, the warrior factions would easily blend back into the general Indian population. If this be the case, it can be argued that the United States military had learned nothing from its own history. Robert M.Utley, often seen on the History Channel, and preeminent military historian of the period, has once again consulted a vast array of archival material. His evidence is equally balanced between primary and secondary sources, with endnotes after every chapter. The author consults an impressive collection of Government documents including a detailed list of Congressional and Senate papers in an impressive bibliography. Generous, easy to read maps, and a peppering of period photographs make this an essential addition to any library.	2005-01-25
US	52858201	R2P3TM9CN9L8IY	0195045556	679281431	The Old Army: A Portrait of the American Army in Peacetime, 1784-1898	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Best Fusion of Social and Military History to Date	America's abhorrence of a large standing army in peacetime, and the officers, men, and camp followers who comprised the small constabulary Army of the nineteenth century, is the theme of Edward M. Coffman's excellent social history. Coffman's engaging chapters delve into the lives of \\"Officers,\\" \\"Women and Children\\" and \\"Enlisted men.\\" The book is arranged chronologically from 1784-1860 and 1865-1898 with those three themes revolving throughout. Since the focus here is the peacetime army, the author deliberately skips the War of 1812 and the American Civil War. The result is undoubtedly the best fusion of social and military history to date. Coffman points out, throughout its fledgling early history of administrative changes and budget cutbacks, living conditions within the institution remained deplorable. Supplies, uniforms and rations were inadequate. Likewise, living quarters and proper sanitation were always poor. The author cites a typical example where one bathtub was shared by 100 men. Predictively, drunkenness and desertion were a constant problem, however, Coffman shows that neither officers nor enlisted men were under paid for any significant length of time throughout the nineteenth century. The author injects facts, statistics, and demographics into an engaging and fast-paced narrative, that is difficult to put down. In his discussion of officers, Coffman covers many essential topics. These areas include: officer-rank & file relations, personal rivalries and career anxiety, as well as line-staff tensions and the emergence of professionalism within the officer corps. The role of West Point, education, and racism towards African-American soldiers are also adequately discussed. The most informative chapters are devoted to Women and children, and the vital role they played in the early peacetime army. The author describes the intricacies and significance of courtship and marriage, raising children in remote out-posts, and, the often forgotten role of other camp followers, such as laundresses and servants. Coffman also selectively incorporates the methods of comparative history, balancing the United States frontier army with its British and European counterparts. The author offers some insights into the correlation of pay scales, health standards, discipline, recruitment, and education. Accenting his plethora of sources arranged in copious notes, are the diaries and memoirs of several foreign observers who recorded their impressions of life within the scattered American Army. The author concludes that by the 1890's, however, living conditions across the board had improved, and the US Army was becoming a desirable career alternative just in time for its debut on the world stage. \\"Mac\\" Coffman destroys the notion that social historians make poor military historians and visa-versa. This classic is required reading for anyone seriously interested in American military history. Five-stars, Bravo!mp followers, such as laundresses and servants. Coffman also selectively incorporates the methods of comparative history, balancing the United States frontier army with its British and European counterparts. The author offers some insights into the correlation of pay scales, health standards, discipline, recruitment, and education. Accenting his plethora of sources arranged in copious notes, are the diaries and memoirs of several foreign observers who recorded their impressions of life within the scattered American Army. The author concludes that by the 1890's, however, living conditions across the board had improved, and the US Army was becoming a desirable career alternative just in time for its debut on the world stage. \\"Mac\\" Coffman destroys the notion that social historians make poor military historians and visa-versa. This classic is required reading for anyone seriously interested in American military history. Five-stars, Bravo!	2005-01-19
US	52858201	R3PCG5YS783KKV	0942597494	60276269	An Army for Empire: The United States Army in the Spanish-American War	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Indispensable Case Study in American Military Policy	Throughout American military history, the interactions and tensions between the regular Army, militia (National Guard) and the civilian politicians in Washington have plagued efficiency in time of war.  Nowhere are these tensions more apparent than in Graham A. Cosmas's seminal study.  Do not let the title of this book mislead you, however. This is not a beginning-to-end narrative of the Spanish-American War in the conventional sense. Instead, this is an institutional, administrative, and organizational treatise on military policy, that utilises the Spanish-American War as a case study. Cosmas presents a perspective of the Spanish-American War as viewed from the War Department and never deviates far from that standpoint. Only one chapter tells of the land and naval engagements in the Caribbean and the Philippines. Even here, Cosmas prefers to concentrate more on logistics, than battles. Shortages of everything besides manpower, especially equipment and supplies resinates throughout these pages. The chapter \\"Sickness and Scandal\\" tells of the malaria, yellow fever, and dysentery epidemics that ravaged the American Army in Cuba, and the shortage of medical personnel and supplies to treat them. Yet, it is Cosmas's handling of all these crucial themes, at a critical turning point not only in American history, but also the shaping and reforming of American military policy, that makes this book a true classic. Briefly, Cosmas concludes the War Department's conduct of the war was not all mismanagement, negligence and corruption as commonly asserted by previous historians. Rather, the War Department's successes far outweigh its failures.  The author weaves grand strategy, civil-military in-fighting, and the age-old debate concerning a regular standing versus citizen army beautifully. Cosmas states that the War Department had a good plan for carrying out the war, however, President William McKinley's meddling fouled it up. McKinley undermined the War Department's contingency plans, argues Cosmas, by expanding the Army twice, and bowing to the pressure of the states to call up the National Guard. The author asserts that had McKinley resisted the political sway of the National Guard proponents, the War Department would have been better able to train and equip a small regular force, thus alleviating chaotic logistical nightmares. In short, military strategy should be conducted my generals, not civilians; even if that civilian happens to be the commander-in chief [first published in 1973, this argument could certainly have mirrored current events in Southeast Asia]. This book is indispensable in gaining a perspective to a crucial period in American military policy. The less inclined may want to digest David Trask's _The War With Spain in 1898_ first though.plans, argues Cosmas, by expanding the Army twice, and bowing to the pressure of the states to call up the National Guard. The author asserts that had McKinley resisted the political sway of the National Guard proponents, the War Department would have been better able to train and equip a small regular force, thus alleviating chaotic logistical nightmares. In short, military strategy should be conducted my generals, not civilians; even if that civilian happens to be the commander-in chief [first published in 1973, this argument could certainly have mirrored current events in Southeast Asia]. This book is indispensable in gaining a perspective to a crucial period in American military policy. The less inclined may want to digest David Trask's _The War With Spain in 1898_ first though.	2005-01-19
US	52858201	R1O6JMC61KSYM9	0806132809	373333058	Men Against Fire: The Problem of Battle Command	Books	4	29	39	N	N	Pioneering Analysis...in 1947, Today: Little Value!	First published in 1947, S.L.A. Marshall's \\"Men Against Fire\\" argues that in spite of long-range nuclear weapons, the next war of nations will not be a push-button war. Rather, individuals engaging each other on the battlefield will again provide the mainstay of a total war even more destructive than World War II. Obviously, Marshall did not foresee the advent of limited wars in Korea and Vietnam just around the corner. Nevertheless, Marshall poses some thought provoking questions of Americans in combat. In a highly controversial claim based on questionable research, Marshall concludes that in World War II, only one-in-four soldiers fired his rifle in combat. Marshall claims to have \\"personally\\" conducted mass interviews with approximately 400 infantry companies in the Central Pacific and European Theaters immediately following important battles (If you are doing the Arithmetic, approx. 200 men per company x 400 companies, you're getting the idea!).  Not one platoon, company, or battalion commander, argues Marshall, was aware that only twenty-five percent of soldiers engaged in combat fired their weapons. As a result of his findings, Marshall then campaigned for the need of new training methods for infantry soldiers. He stressed, this individual training should be based on long-term psychological camaraderie, not the quick turnover replacement system that was utilized during World War II. Marshall's un-refuted claims (until recently) have influenced a generation of military historians including T.R. Fehrenbach and Russell F. Weigley. Marshall is quick to point out that the alleged seventy-five percent of those who did not shoot were not shirkers or meanderers. These men were on the front line with their assigned units and often performed other essential tasks relating to combat duty. When the confusion and chaos of a fire fight ensued, however, they just did not shoot their weapons. Marshall rejects the reason most often used for not firing, that of giving one's position away. Instead, Marshall contends it is just a gut-level fear that prevents these men from firing at the enemy. Fears of letting down one's comrades were also prevalent among the interviewees. Most importantly, however, Marshall found \\"that fear of killing, rather than the fear of being killed, was the most common cause of battle failure in the individual, and that fear of failure ran a close second.\\" Predictively, Marshall does not cite any of his evidence and his less than scientific methods have been widely refuted in recent decades. However, the questions that he poses about the psychological makeup of an American in combat have some merit. It is widely agreed by military professionals that two years is enough time to adequately train an individual for combat. Yet given the uniquely American dependence on the citizen soldier, is this time period sufficient to turn an ordinary civilian into an effective combat soldier? Is an American conscript morally and ethically suited for this role? Is there a solution other than Marshall's proposing that units train together and stay together with a tight knit cadre of officers and non-coms that would provide the basis of moral support all through training and eventual deployment in combat? In hindsight, one such inception, \\"Operation Gyroscope\\" in the late 1950s was a complete failure. It is the thought provoking answers to these questions that make S.L.A. Marshall's book a significant addition to any bookshelf, though its viewpoints are severely dated and controversial.ition away. Instead, Marshall contends it is just a gut-level fear that prevents these men from firing at the enemy. Fears of letting down one's comrades were also prevalent among the interviewees. Most importantly, however, Marshall found \\"that fear of killing, rather than the fear of being killed, was the most common cause of battle failure in the individual, and that fear of failure ran a close second.\\" Predictively, Marshall does not cite any of his evidence and his less than scientific methods have been widely refuted in recent decades. However, the questions that he poses about the psychological makeup of an American in combat have some merit. It is widely agreed by military professionals that two years is enough time to adequately train an individual for combat. Yet given the uniquely American dependence on the citizen soldier, is this time period sufficient to turn an ordinary civilian into an effective combat soldier? Is an American conscript morally and ethically suited for this role? Is there a solution other than Marshall's proposing that units train together and stay together with a tight knit cadre of officers and non-coms that would provide the basis of moral support all through training and eventual deployment in combat? In hindsight, one such inception, \\"Operation Gyroscope\\" in the late 1950s was a complete failure. It is the thought provoking answers to these questions that make S.L.A. Marshall's book a significant addition to any bookshelf, though its viewpoints are severely dated and controversial.	2005-01-15
US	52858201	R2Z7E8X1FRUGHR	1557500320	117580293	Storm Landings: Epic Amphibious Battles in the Central Pacific	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Best Analysis of Amphibious Operations in 40 Years!	Marine Corps historian Joseph H. Alexander establishes that the two most unique combined arms forms of American naval warfare in the Second World War were the deployment of carrier task forces and long range amphibious operations against stiff opposition. He dubs the latter, \\"storm landings.\\" Out of the hundreds of amphibious landings that took place in the Central Pacific during World War II, Alexander points out only those landings at Tarawa, Saipan, Guam, Tinian, Peleliu, Iwo Jima, and Okinawa fall into this category. Alexander also discusses the proposed landings on Kyushu, in the spring of 1946, which was to be the greatest storm landing of them all. The author's exhaustive research makes this a significant addition to the study of amphibious operations. The three factors Alexander attributes to the success of these complex combined operations were: small unit leadership, logistics, and tactical mobility. Alexander brings to this work the technical specialization of a Marine Corps officer who had served twenty-nine years with amphibious units. His expertise is revealed in discussions throughout the book of such concepts as \\"situational awareness,\\" combat loading, and the evolution of various types of landing craft developed during the Pacific campaigns. In his analysis of the small unit actions that exemplified the Pacific Campaign, Alexander praises the bravery and leadership at the squad and platoon level: \\"Tactical success in each case,\\" writes Alexander, \\"required the leader to inspire small groups of disorganized men to overcome two inevitable characteristics of the assault beachhead-chaos and inertia.\\" The author concludes that the battles waged in the Pacific in general and the aforementioned \\"storm landings\\" in particular had a direct influence in the outcome of the war. Alexander has scoured the Marine Corps archival material pertaining to the operations in the Pacific during World War II. The author has also made extensive use of private collections, oral histories, and post war studies. Sufficient maps, photographs, and tables pertaining to various weapons and equipment round out this refreshing study of a uniquely American contribution to victory in World War II. My main critique, however, is that Alexander presents a weak argument when he tries to compare storm landings in the pacific with similar large-scale operations in Europe. Alexander claims storm landings differed from landings made on Sicily and Normandy because, in both cases, those were jointly executed with Airborne drops and culminated in a long ranging campaigns. Sicily, up to that time (July 1943), the largest amphibious operation of the war, was also an island that had to be conquered. The accompanying airborne operation on Sicily, was, unfortunately a debacle, though the paratroopers fought bravely once they were finally organised in land. The operation's only connection to a long ranging campaign was a preamble to the arduous struggle up the Italian boot. Similarly, Alexander conveniently omits mentioning General Douglas MacArthur's use of airborne operations on New Guinea, but chooses instead to discuss only the amphibious portion of that operation. This slight weakness does not, however, diminish from the overall integrity of Alexander's impeccable research and engaging narrative. This book comes highly recommended.oral histories, and post war studies. Sufficient maps, photographs, and tables pertaining to various weapons and equipment round out this refreshing study of a uniquely American contribution to victory in World War II. My main critique, however, is that Alexander presents a weak argument when he tries to compare storm landings in the pacific with similar large-scale operations in Europe. Alexander claims storm landings differed from landings made on Sicily and Normandy because, in both cases, those were jointly executed with Airborne drops and culminated in a long ranging campaigns. Sicily, up to that time (July 1943), the largest amphibious operation of the war, was also an island that had to be conquered. The accompanying airborne operation on Sicily, was, unfortunately a debacle, though the paratroopers fought bravely once they were finally organised in land. The operation's only connection to a long ranging campaign was a preamble to the arduous struggle up the Italian boot. Similarly, Alexander conveniently omits mentioning General Douglas MacArthur's use of airborne operations on New Guinea, but chooses instead to discuss only the amphibious portion of that operation. This slight weakness does not, however, diminish from the overall integrity of Alexander's impeccable research and engaging narrative. This book comes highly recommended.	2005-01-15
US	52858201	R1AS2T52Y47UQD	0521637600	327122679	Military Innovation in the Interwar Period	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Essential Addition to the Study of the Inter-war Period	The acclaimed scholarly team of Williamson Murray and Allan R. Millett have edited an anthology of essays encompassing the technological innovations in weaponry during the 1920's and 1930's. These innovations span the research and developments of all the major belligerents that play a major role in the coming global conflict. Each scholar was instructed to compare and contrast his or her topic country with two other countries making this work not only a significant contribution in and of itself, but also a vital comparative study as well. In addition, the researchers were asked to structure their essays around three concepts: the strategic framework of the period, the organizational factors of the institutions under study, and the doctrinal framework of the services. Many of the contributing factors to victory and defeat in World War II are covered within the pages of this important work. Williamson Murray takes a look at \\"Armored Warfare: The British, French and German Experiences,\\" and \\"Strategic Bombing: The British, American and German Experiences.\\" Richard R. Muller examines \\"Close Air Support: The German British and American Experiences, 1918-1941.\\" Geoffrey Till discusses \\"Adopting the Aircraft Carrier: The British, American, and Japanese Case Studies.\\" But perhaps the most important chapter is Allan R. Millett's \\"Assault From the Sea: The Development of Amphibious Warfare Between the Wars-the American, British, and Japanese Experiences.\\" Millett compared the development of amphibious doctrine in Japan, Britain, and the United States. The author concludes the U. S. led the way in amphibious warfare doctrine, initiating combined arms operations between air, sea and land that would prove to be a critical advantage in the pacific campaign. According to Millett, Japan started out impressively as was evident by its ever-expanding Pacific empire in the 1930's. Since every landing force became an isolated island garrison, however, Japan's whole amphibious program literally faded away. Great Britain, on the other hand, never had the economic resources necessary to implement a successful amphibious program. Millett concludes that factors such as budget and innovative foresight are vital contributing factors in technological innovation. The author is also quick to point out that in many cases, new weapons become obsolete as soon as hostilities begin. Generally, books of essays are usually disjointed and inconsistent. The guidelines and structure the editors have chosen have tied all the chapters in this book together nicely. This is arguably the best work on the inter-war period to emerge in years. Highly recommended.terally faded away. Great Britain, on the other hand, never had the economic resources necessary to implement a successful amphibious program. Millett concludes that factors such as budget and innovative foresight are vital contributing factors in technological innovation. The author is also quick to point out that in many cases, new weapons become obsolete as soon as hostilities begin. Generally, books of essays are usually disjointed and inconsistent. The guidelines and structure the editors have chosen have tied all the chapters in this book together nicely. This is arguably the best work on the inter-war period to emerge in years. Highly recommended.	2005-01-15
US	52858201	R3O6JSQNOHJDX1	1572490853	122993867	The Test of Battle: The American Expeditionary Forces in the Meuse-Argonne Campaign	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Could Have Been Great..Terrible Editing!	When compared with the American Civil War and World War II, the historical literature dealing with America's role in World War I, is noticeable lacking. Although recent publications have added to the diluted historiography that once consisted primarily of memoirs, this crucial period is a potential gold mine of unwritten scholarship that could shed light on American military policy. In _The Test of Battle: The American Expeditionary Forces in the Meuse Argonne Campaign_, Paul F. Braim evaluates the American performance and combat effectiveness during this, the American Expeditionary Force's (AEF) largest and most significant campaign. Dr. Braim, a veteran of three wars, represents the delicate blending of the academic historian and their brethren in uniform that bring a high level of technical military expertise to the profession. That combination has some drawbacks here, however.The author does not grade the AEF's performance too highly. Among the weaknesses the author mentions are: poor leadership, inadequate training, and inexperience of the American units and command structure. Unpreparedness, a lingering malady of American \\"citizen soldiers\\" is the underlying theme here. Unfortunately, Braim devotes only seventy-five pages to the actual Meuse-Argonne Campaign. In the process, one gets the impression that he is placing the Meuse-Argonne Campaign under a microscope applying all the stored technical knowledge and jargon inherent in a modern day military professional. Braim dissects the Meuse-Argonne as if he were refereeing a recent exercise held at Fort Benning, Georgia. The author incorporates way too much hindsight for my taste.  The majority of the book, is nothing more than a diluted political overview and massive military buildup that mirrors the work of other historians.  Nearly half of its 245-pages is a series of appendices containing graphs and tables reproduced from an original record titled: \\"Final Reports of Assistant Chief of Staff ... to Commander-in-Chief, American Expeditionary Forces.\\" Most interesting, however, is the table indicating the \\"Responses of 728 Veterans of the Meuse-Argonne Campaign...\\"  conducted by the U.S. Army Military History Institute at Carlisle Barracks, Pennsylvania. It is this unique perspective of veterans that adds originality to a study of this type. Generous maps and battlefield photographs taken after the war are faithfully duplicated within these pages.  Yet a book cannot be judged by cosmetic make-overs alone. Braim cites poor leadership wracked the Meuse-Argonne Campaign, with particular finger-pointing at Pershing. The author suggests Pershing was afflicted with a myopia which could be called \\"Battlefield Fixation,\\" and compares this preoccupation to the symptoms of Robert E. Lee at Gettysburg.  Braim has consulted an adequate collection of published and unpublished sources. According to the results of the questionnaire, the veterans agree with Braim concerning inadequate training, due to \\"lack of time.\\" The veterans disagree with Braim, however, on leadership. Of the 503 responses to the 'leadership\\" criterion, 467 veterans thought the leadership in the AEF was \\"good\\" noting that the \\"leaders cared\\" for the American soldier. It is also noteworthy to mention that Braim sent out queries to a group of the most highly respected military historians in the field to ask their views on this topic. They could not rescue Braim's bout with acute bad prose, however. The author's account is, for the most part, fluid, but contains annoying peculiarities. For instance, Braim repeatedly refers to himself throughout the text as \\"this author\\" and sprinkles his prose with contractions and the anachronistic exclamation point. Quoting a well known historian of the period, Braim exclaims, \\"That's the sum of it! This author wishes he'd said that.\\" When confronted with a debate over leadership, Brain once again blurts out: \\"If fired upon on this matter, this author will retreat!\\" This reader had toretreat for some fresh air or get sick. This book had all the makings of a great study. A qualified editor would have made all the difference.retreat for some fresh air or get sick. This book had all the makings of a great study. A qualified editor would have made all the difference.	2005-01-15
US	52858201	R7XTOHVBE83XK	0679772685	810809476	Hitler's Willing Executioners: Ordinary Germans and the Holocaust	Books	3	16	26	N	N	Warning! Please Read Critically	Generalizations are a dangerous occupational hazard for historians. Unfortunately, Daniel Goldhagen's book is full of them. Goldhagen is not an historian. Regardless, this does not excuse poor scholarship. Had Mr. Goldhagen been trained in the historical profession for any length of time, he obviously would have been aware that themes of an historical and political nature do not fit nicely into compartmentalized categories of black and white; there are always noticeable shades of gray. Historians, social scientists and political scientists, could collectively and unanimously advise Mr. Goldhagen that in the realm of scholarly endeavors, not to mention the world in general, there are no absolutes. Having said that, Goldhagen's thesis, expressed here in plain language, that all Germans possessed a peculiar brand of anti-Semitism (\\"eliminationist anti-Semitism\\") to the extent that, given the chance, all Germans would willingly murder Jews, is almost comical in its implications. But this is no joke. In fairness, the author's intentions for writing this book are admirable, however, his methods and conclusions fall short. Goldhagen focuses his attention on the perpetrators of the Holocaust, \\"the men and women who in some intimate way (and the author's list is staggering) knowingly contributed to the slaughter of Jews.\\"  The author attempts to systematically reveal the motivations of the perpetrators and has established some models in which to study their actions, beliefs, rationalizations and justifications for those actions. Goldhagen categorizes the motivations of \\"ordinary Germans\\" into five types: (1) coercion, (2) blindly following orders, (3) psychological peer pressure, (4) fulfilling bureaucratic procedures with total disregard for the victims, and (5) ignorance to the real nature of their actions. Goldhagen then attempts to categorize the actions of the perpetrators by degrees of cruelty. Finally, the author asks what actions could the perpetrators have taken to avoid killings or acts of cruelty. For example, could the perpetrators have disobeyed orders or simply refused to partake in the acts of brutality? Goldhagen formulates this methodology then totally dismisses the legitimacy of this model and concludes: \\"the perpetrators (German society as a whole) ... having judged the mass annihilation of Jews to be right, did not want to say 'no'\\"  They thus became, \\"willing executioners.\\" Another weak contention Goldhagen makes involves labelling German anti-Semitism as particularly unique to that of other European nations during the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Anti-Semitism surely existed in other European countries, yet Goldhagen makes no comparison between German anti-Semitism and that of other European states at all. Instead, he lumps all Germans into one basket. Another gross generalization involves Goldhagen's assertion that the members of Polizeibataillon 101 represented a fair cross-section of German society from a political standpoint anyway. As Goldhagen's critics have pointed out, the historian Christopher Browning had already conducted a study of this particular unit. Browning shows that many of the members of this unit belonged to non-German ethnic groups, particularly Czechs, were well known for their brutality towards Jews. In addition, Browning suggests that most of the members of this unit may have had psychological repercussions for their actions as was evident in the rampant alcoholism that permeated Police Battalion 101. Goldhagen waves over much of Browning's conclusions, however, and tends to select them to suit his own argument. These critiques are not meant to justify or minimize the actions of the perpetrators. The Holocaust was a horrible chapter in the history of human kind. Goldhagen's intentions were noble and this could have been a great scholarly contribution to Holocaust literature had it been written differently. This is a dangerous book. Dangerous, because it redirects hatred back at a specific nationality-Germans. Dangerous also, because of the possibility of a vast audience, not conditioned to read critically, may take Goldhagen's contentions at face value. Not many of us will ever know what it is like to have our whole family murdered at the hands of a fanatical regime. Many still remember, however, and it is this emotional chord that Goldhagen aims at that will not let the hatred toward a new, and, some may argue, an undeserving generation of Germans subside. Goldhagen's road to \\"reconsideration\\" may be paved with good intentions; however, there are many pot holes to be filled before the last chapter in this sad story is written.t a specific nationality-Germans. Dangerous also, because of the possibility of a vast audience, not conditioned to read critically, may take Goldhagen's contentions at face value. Not many of us will ever know what it is like to have our whole family murdered at the hands of a fanatical regime. Many still remember, however, and it is this emotional chord that Goldhagen aims at that will not let the hatred toward a new, and, some may argue, an undeserving generation of Germans subside. Goldhagen's road to \\"reconsideration\\" may be paved with good intentions; however, there are many pot holes to be filled before the last chapter in this sad story is written.	2005-01-14
US	52858201	R3A62XF94HHNTK	0195133323	732963893	The Great War and Modern Memory	Books	4	19	23	N	N	The Great War in British Literature	Paul Fussell draws an exceedingly thin line between history and literary criticism in his telling how the Great War will endure modern memory from the British perspective. Fussell analyzes a vast array of poetry, memoirs, and prose-written both during and after the war-to convey the experiences and emotions of British officers and men who took part in such horrible battles as: the Somme, Ypres, and Passchendaele. Fussell illustrates how the basic elements of literature such as irony, metaphor, and myth appear throughout the literary works of Thomas Hardy, Seigfried Sassoon and Robert Graves to name a few. Fussell is not out to claim that truth is stranger than fiction, however. On the contrary, he argues that fiction closely parallels truth and, it is these literary devises that have ingrained the memory of the Great War into our consciousness. Many believe that the Great War sparked the advent of modernism, and that the lives of a whole generation of youth that came of age during that war was forever changed. Fussell attempts to prove that nowhere is this more apparent than in the British literature published in the years following World War I. Fussell chose primarily British literature for his study. This is not merely an attempt to narrow the focus of his study, but rather an Anglophilic obsession for the British classical literary tradition at the expense of other combatants; the French, Germans, and to a lesser degree, the Americans. Fussell levels a number of harsh criticisms at American writers, particularly Earnest Hemingway, claiming they existed in a literary vacuum \\"devoid of a Chaucer, a Spencer, a Shakespeare.\\"  Fussell points out that, just prior to World War I, England had undergone a literary surge that had transcended existing class structures. Though organized reading groups at Workman's institutes and the Home Reading Union those of modest origins, it was hoped, would rise in class standing. According to Fussell, no effort was spared. Devouring the best the British had to offer, the author contends that the British population as a whole became \\"not merely literate but vigorously literary.\\" Unfortunately, Fussell fails to mention the inclusion of women in this literary upsurge as well as barely mentioning women writers, if at all. Fussell analyzes and interprets the literature of the Great War with surgical precision. The author gives some fine examples of wartime poetry, especially the works of Seigfried Sassoon and Robert Graves. Fussell plays particular attention to the element of irony, its construction of themes and its influence on future generations of wartime writers. As Fussell points out, \\"the Great War was more ironic than any other in that its beginnings were more innocent.\\" The British went to war in a gentlemanly and sporting manner even going so far as to kick a football as they advanced towards the enemy trenches. Fussell emphasizes the impact these seemingly insignificant events fuelled by irony have on one's memory, however, fails to present any evidence other than the literature itself. The point is that Fussell's strength lies in literary theory, not history. All too often, the author engages in broad generalizations when he steps out of his area of expertise (literary criticism). Yet this is one of the first works to apply literary criticism to an historical even, thus it enjoys classic status.e best the British had to offer, the author contends that the British population as a whole became \\"not merely literate but vigorously literary.\\" Unfortunately, Fussell fails to mention the inclusion of women in this literary upsurge as well as barely mentioning women writers, if at all. Fussell analyzes and interprets the literature of the Great War with surgical precision. The author gives some fine examples of wartime poetry, especially the works of Seigfried Sassoon and Robert Graves. Fussell plays particular attention to the element of irony, its construction of themes and its influence on future generations of wartime writers. As Fussell points out, \\"the Great War was more ironic than any other in that its beginnings were more innocent.\\" The British went to war in a gentlemanly and sporting manner even going so far as to kick a football as they advanced towards the enemy trenches. Fussell emphasizes the impact these seemingly insignificant events fuelled by irony have on one's memory, however, fails to present any evidence other than the literature itself. The point is that Fussell's strength lies in literary theory, not history. All too often, the author engages in broad generalizations when he steps out of his area of expertise (literary criticism). Yet this is one of the first works to apply literary criticism to an historical even, thus it enjoys classic status.	2005-01-14
US	52858201	R3CZSFLFLZ2VAM	0395710839	966427024	Crusade: The Untold Story of the Persian Gulf War	Books	4	8	12	N	N	Not a Definitive History, but Compelling	For fifteen years the specter of Vietnam hung over the United States military. After finally devising a way to bow out of the Southeast Asian quagmire with honor, the administration of President Richard M. Nixon was eventually brought down by the scandal of Watergate. Even the failure of its Cold War nemesis, the former Soviet Union, in a similar debacle in Afghanistan, could not dilute the embarrassment of Vietnam in the American consciousness. The invasion of Kuwait by Saddam Hussein's Iraqi forces on 2 August 1990, would give the United States both the opportunity to win a conventional military victory and produce great soldier-heroes such as those that had emerged from more popular wars of the past. That is the underlining thesis of Rick Atkinson's _Crusade: The Untold Story of the Persian Gulf War_. Atkinson argues that aside from the obvious objectives of liberating the Kuwaiti oil fields and protecting America's vital interests in the Middle East, the conflict would produce two important subtle consequences. First it would provide a victory to restore prestige to a military establishment haunted by the ghosts of Vietnam. Second, and more importantly, a victory in the Persian Gulf would provide America with old-fashioned military and political heroes the likes of which had not been seen since the tumultuous parades down New York's Fifth Avenue following Japan's surrender in World War II. The heroes America needed and the media helped to create were General H. Norman Schwarzkopf and President George H.W. Bush. Atkinson portrays Schwarzkopf, arguably the most flamboyant American general since Lt. Gen. George S. Patton Jr., as raging and abusive. Written with a \\"you are there\\" approach, the author describes many top-level briefings between Schwarzkopf and his subordinates. A common theme is Schwarzkopf's accusatory bantering that his orders were deliberately disobeyed. Many of these diatribes were aimed at with a great deal of disrespect for U.S. VII Corps commander General Frederick M. Franks. Acknowledging the frustration associated with the burden of command, however, Atkinson concedes that perhaps some of Schwarzkopf's outbursts may have been justifiable. Atkinson initially portrays Bush as an \\"extraordinary commander.\\" The author credits Bush's campaign to gain support of the American people by demoralizing the militaristic regime of Saddam Hussein as brilliant. Atkinson illustrates how Bush's hero status quickly diminished, however, when the president ended the war prematurely allowing the Iraqi forces to escape and failed to remove Saddam Hussein from power. Utilizing his highly regarded journalistic talent, sprinkled with a sampling of sensationalism, Atkinson examines nearly every controversy of the war. These topics include: the high degree of fratricide among U.S. Service personnel, the reasons for faulty U.S. Intelligence reports that habitually overestimated enemy strength, and the many questions surrounding just how effective were \\"Smart Bombs.\\" Atkinson also delves into inter-service rivalries, particularly between the Air Force and the Army. He suggests the two services inflated their own roles concerning the conduct of the war. According to Atkinson, this over glamorizing was done in an effort to highlight the importance of their respective services in order to gain the appropriate postwar funding and budgets. The author was privy to certain principal sources during the course of his research. Some documents were declassified just for the purpose of writing of this book through the Freedom of Information Act. The author also was allowed access to the unpublished manuscript of the Official U.S. History of the Persian Gulf War. This is not the definitive history of the first Persian Gulf War, but Atkinson's spin on important issues makes for a compelling read.der General Frederick M. Franks. Acknowledging the frustration associated with the burden of command, however, Atkinson concedes that perhaps some of Schwarzkopf's outbursts may have been justifiable. Atkinson initially portrays Bush as an \\"extraordinary commander.\\" The author credits Bush's campaign to gain support of the American people by demoralizing the militaristic regime of Saddam Hussein as brilliant. Atkinson illustrates how Bush's hero status quickly diminished, however, when the president ended the war prematurely allowing the Iraqi forces to escape and failed to remove Saddam Hussein from power. Utilizing his highly regarded journalistic talent, sprinkled with a sampling of sensationalism, Atkinson examines nearly every controversy of the war. These topics include: the high degree of fratricide among U.S. Service personnel, the reasons for faulty U.S. Intelligence reports that habitually overestimated enemy strength, and the many questions surrounding just how effective were \\"Smart Bombs.\\" Atkinson also delves into inter-service rivalries, particularly between the Air Force and the Army. He suggests the two services inflated their own roles concerning the conduct of the war. According to Atkinson, this over glamorizing was done in an effort to highlight the importance of their respective services in order to gain the appropriate postwar funding and budgets. The author was privy to certain principal sources during the course of his research. Some documents were declassified just for the purpose of writing of this book through the Freedom of Information Act. The author also was allowed access to the unpublished manuscript of the Official U.S. History of the Persian Gulf War. This is not the definitive history of the first Persian Gulf War, but Atkinson's spin on important issues makes for a compelling read.	2005-01-14
US	52858201	R1O3OQJUCBYFYU	0521280494	974262633	Interpreting the French Revolution	Books	3	30	37	N	N	More Contemporary Political Soap Box Than History	Francois Furet delves deep beneath the surface of events that shaped the French Revolution as an historical event, to convey what he believes is a need for a conceptual analysis that refutes the \\"dominant\\" Marxist interpretations of the 1970's. Furet, who hails from the so called third generation of Annales School historians, was one of a few daring French scholars that attempted to bring political history back into a paradigm that was dominated by social, economic, and qualitative history in the post-World War II decades. Admitting that before any scholarship on the French Revolution can be taken seriously, an historian must first \\" show his colors,\\"...i.e....declare his political stand. Endorsing the earlier works of Alexis de Tocqueville and Augustin Cochin, Furet points to the substantial Socialist element that has existed in his homeland, and argues: the one trait that was unique to the French Revolution, was the fact that it was the first experiment with democracy. The result is a valiant political stand but a puzzling historical analysis.The book consists of four essays written at various times from 1971 to 1978. In \\"The Revolution is Over\\", Furet counters the Marxist argument that the French Revolution was the model for future Communists political uprisings, or liberations, specifically, the Bolshevik Revolution of 1917. Furet admits there were similarities between Joseph Stalin and Robespierre, Stalin's purges and the Terror, and Napoleon Bonaparte and Leon Trotsky, however, he emphasizes that the \\"Revolutionary Break\\" which separated the old from the contemporary French histories, ended at 9 Thermidor with absolute power coming full circle, this time, in the hands of society. In the process, Furet attempts to get to the root of such concepts as: \\"revolutionary ideology,\\" and it relationship to \\"plot,\\" and how the opinions of individuals transformed the \\"conscious will\\" of French society into conscious acts. In the second part of the book, Furet critiques the standard cause and effect history of Tocqueville and the \\"traditionalist\\" political history of the French Revolution as penned by Cochin. These historiographical essays are perhaps the strongest part of the book, and most beneficial to serious students of this era, yet overall, the book can be confusing to readers who are not extremely well versed in the history of the French Revolution. Furet's fragmented literary style (Undoubtedly, much has been lost in translation), and the absence of an index; makes the book exceedingly hard to follow. The author makes a number of interesting points, however, his contentions are scattered and do not flow evenly. Furet admits that the second part of the book was written first and perhaps would have made for an easier read had it been published in that order. Furet gears his analysis to an audience who is highly versed in this topic. Overall, the book utilizes an historical event to make a contemporary political stand against Marxism by a contemporary French historian. Not recommended for the beginner.he standard cause and effect history of Tocqueville and the \\"traditionalist\\" political history of the French Revolution as penned by Cochin. These historiographical essays are perhaps the strongest part of the book, and most beneficial to serious students of this era, yet overall, the book can be confusing to readers who are not extremely well versed in the history of the French Revolution. Furet's fragmented literary style (Undoubtedly, much has been lost in translation), and the absence of an index; makes the book exceedingly hard to follow. The author makes a number of interesting points, however, his contentions are scattered and do not flow evenly. Furet admits that the second part of the book was written first and perhaps would have made for an easier read had it been published in that order. Furet gears his analysis to an audience who is highly versed in this topic. Overall, the book utilizes an historical event to make a contemporary political stand against Marxism by a contemporary French historian. Not recommended for the beginner.	2005-01-14
US	52858201	R2LKPT3MIFJNL0	1574882597	163073287	This Kind of War: The Classic Korean War History - Fiftieth Anniversary Edition	Books	4	51	52	N	N	Originally Sub-titled: "A Study in Unpreparedness"	Unpreparedness is a major theme in American military history. In his popular and unsympathetic view of America's involvement in Korea, T.R. Fehrenbach argues that the American armed forces were psychologically unprepared for the type of limited war that took place in Korea (\\"this kind of war\\"). The author questions whether the citizen-soldier and the society from which it breeds were willing to fight and die for an intangible foreign policy in Asia. Originally published two years before a full American commitment in Vietnam (1963), the author warns that this type of conflict will become the rule rather than the exception and America had better train a professional force both physically and mentally to deal with such future conflicts. Fehrenbach's reporting contains many  lessons learned and leadership analysis which appeals more to current active duty military personnel. Fehrenbach's book is considered a classic, and is listed on many of the professional military reading lists. Fehrenbach's strengths lie in his combat narrative, particularly at the small unit level, however, when the author attempts to place the conflict in its overall political perspective, he falls short. Many paragraphs contain merely two or three sentences, that for this reviewer, made this book a chore to read in places. In this regard, Fehrenbach trails behind other authors on the subject such as Roy Appleman, and a recently published series edited by Allan R. Millett. Having himself commanded units at platoon, company, and battalion level in Korea, Fehrenbach is direct and pulls no punches. In contrast to those who argue that Korea was a success in that the United States accomplished its mission of re-establishing the Republic of South Korea, Fehrenbach holds the war was a stalemate resembling trench warfare on the Western Front from 1914-1918. Although stating that his evidence is compiled from many sources: official records, operations journals, memoirs, newspapers, and oral histories, the reprinted edition reviewed here contained no notes or bibliography: inexcusable for a work of history! The author is adamant in his conclusion: \\"A nation that does not prepare for all the forms of war should then renounce the use of war in national policy.\\" He adds: \\"A people [America] that does not prepare to fight should then be morally prepared to surrender. To fail to prepare soldiers and citizens for limited, bloody ground action, and then to engage in it, is folly verging on the criminal.\\" I've read better books, but this one deserves checking out for the author's uncanny foresight and solid analysis.reprinted edition reviewed here contained no notes or bibliography: inexcusable for a work of history! The author is adamant in his conclusion: \\"A nation that does not prepare for all the forms of war should then renounce the use of war in national policy.\\" He adds: \\"A people [America] that does not prepare to fight should then be morally prepared to surrender. To fail to prepare soldiers and citizens for limited, bloody ground action, and then to engage in it, is folly verging on the criminal.\\" I've read better books, but this one deserves checking out for the author's uncanny foresight and solid analysis.	2005-01-14
US	52858201	R1XUNVFSPX1JZ	0520206053	465721982	Tensions of Empire: Colonial Cultures in a Bourgeois World	Books	4	11	12	N	N	A Multi-disciplinary Treatment of the Exclusionary "Other"	In this collection of essays, Frederick Cooper and Ann Laura Stoler have attempted to shed light on an often overlooked aspect of European imperialism; the colonized. Specifically, the authors contend it is that gray area \\"between the public institutions of the colonial state and the intimate reaches of people's lives that seemed to us to demand more attention.\\" Realizing the diversity of the European colonial experience, the authors wanted to examine whether or not there exists a correlation between the archival histories of the major European imperial powers-Germany, France, Great Britain and the Netherlands. Incorporating what some historians have referred to as \\"the holy trinity\\"-gender, race and class-Cooper and Stoler have collected an assemblage of scholarship that takes a look at the indigenous experience, or as the title suggests, tensions that existed within the exclusionary \\"Other\\" and their culture of colonization. In keeping with the French Annalist, Marxist tradition of social-economic historiography that had grown popular in the 1960's and 1970's, the essays not only reinforce the evils of capitalistic exploitation, but also incorporate to a large extent, the field of anthropology to the blurred genres of interdisciplinary scholarship. In a sense, the articles read like anthropological field studies in an historical setting. For example, in \\"Le Bebe en Brousse: European Women, African Birth Spacing, and Colonial Intervention in Breast Feeding in the Belgian Congo\\" (pp. 287-321), Nancy Rose Hunt, examines the affect colonial institutions had upon a natural birth control method common in many underdeveloped countries, prolonged breast feeding, or birth spacing. Birth spacing and the ethnographic cocoon in which it rests are usually the work of anthropologists not historians. But as we can see from Ms Hunt's argument, the combination of cultural and political studies makes for an interesting blend of social history. In a similar essay titled: \\"Sexual Affronts and Racial Frontiers: European Identities and the Cultural Politics of Exclusion in Colonial Southeast Asia\\" (pp.198-237), Ann Stoler examines the problem of colonial and indigenous union-\\"mixed bloods\\"-and the affects this relationship between inclusionary impulses and exclusionary practices has on French and Dutch nationalism. Here again, as her subtitle suggests, the blending of culture and politics, usually the stuff of varying floors of a Humanities building, has come together in a compatible marriage. This book might not appeal to those accustomed to the standard fair of colonial history. The editor's long and winded introduction does not fully prepare the reader for the interesting essays that follow. Had the editors added a conclusion tying the confusing section headings together, and concisely formulated their opening, the finished product would have been more easily digestible. Ending on a positive note, the lengthy bibliography at the end of each article provides the reader with ample fodder for further inquiry. Perhaps destined to never fine a home on an undergraduate syllabus, this work is, noneheless, a significant contribution to the interdisciplinary paradigm that has taken hold of the historical profession.ronts and Racial Frontiers: European Identities and the Cultural Politics of Exclusion in Colonial Southeast Asia\\" (pp.198-237), Ann Stoler examines the problem of colonial and indigenous union-\\"mixed bloods\\"-and the affects this relationship between inclusionary impulses and exclusionary practices has on French and Dutch nationalism. Here again, as her subtitle suggests, the blending of culture and politics, usually the stuff of varying floors of a Humanities building, has come together in a compatible marriage. This book might not appeal to those accustomed to the standard fair of colonial history. The editor's long and winded introduction does not fully prepare the reader for the interesting essays that follow. Had the editors added a conclusion tying the confusing section headings together, and concisely formulated their opening, the finished product would have been more easily digestible. Ending on a positive note, the lengthy bibliography at the end of each article provides the reader with ample fodder for further inquiry. Perhaps destined to never fine a home on an undergraduate syllabus, this work is, noneheless, a significant contribution to the interdisciplinary paradigm that has taken hold of the historical profession.	2005-01-14
US	52858201	RIAPS189XHX9U	157392606X	757386071	German Liberalism in the 19th Century	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Can't See the Forest for the Trees	German historian James Sheehan contends that the ultimate failure of the Liberals to establish a strong political voice in Germany during the nineteenth century eventually led to right wing nationalism in the form of National Socialism in the twentieth century. In this thoroughly researched political history, Sheehan traces the development of German Liberalism from its origins in the late eighteenth century, through revolutionary turmoil in the 1840's, the Bismarckian era, culminating in the years leading to World War I. Sheehan's efforts are commendable and he dispels many of the general assumptions why Liberalism failed in Germany, however, the author fails in placing this political history in the broader context of events that shaped German history during the \\"long nineteenth century,\\" and his conclusion is even less convincing. The available documentation and literature on the topic of German liberalism is staggering and Sheehan has utilized the vast array to good advantage. Consulting the usual primary sources in formulating a political treatise of this magnitude, he consults legislative proceedings, voting records, as well as a wealth of scholarly interpretations, mostly in the German language. In the chronological method in which he chose to present his case, Sheehan has certainly done his homework. The result is a narrowly focused and detailed analysis framed in an oftentimes-blurry larger picture. In his opening statements, Sheehan asserts that Germany was in a unique situation in that it had to look to western European and North American models of liberalism and adapt them to the uniquely German social and political structure. Sheehan develops the latter part of that contention marvelously but never elaborates how Western Europe and North America fit into the mix. What is more, the larger political events of the nineteenth century: the revolutions of 1830 and 1848, the Austrio-Prussian and Franco-Prussian Wars, the rise of Bismarck and unification of Germany and Italy, are smothered beneath the fluctuating rise and fall of liberal politics. In short, Sheehan overemphasizes the impact of German liberalism and underestimates the importance of the larger events that set the mold. It is uncertain whether liberalism, as Sheehan portrays it, is the chicken or the egg. The strength of the book lies in Sheehan's methodical analysis of the complex movement itself. Although not ignoring the social-economic aspect all together, the author dispels the general assumption that German liberals, like their Western European counterparts, were primarily made up of middle class business strata. Instead, Sheehan proves that the German intelligentsia composed the majority of the political body. Sheehan wonderfully illustrates the diversity of the liberal movement that resulted in competing factions from extreme left to extreme right within the party. This of course, prevented a solid cohesiveness that could have otherwise made the Liberal party a force to be reckoned with. Yet it was the constant struggle between Volk and Staat that remained the nemesis of the German liberal party; a point Sheehan develops well throughout the book. On the down side, it is a fallacy to conclude that the failure of the German liberal party paved the way for Nazism. The very nature of European parliamentary politics is too diverse to assume by removing one element from the mix allows the polar opposite to take hold. Sheehan holds that World War I was the straw the broke the liberal party, yet, here again, ignores the conventional historical determinants: Germany's humiliation after losing the war, the world-wide depression of the 1930's and the rise of Communism usually associated with the rise of the Nazi Party leaves his conclusion unconvincing. Although not for the faint of heart, Sheehan has written a striking piece on German liberalism that constitutes a major contribution to the field. At times, however, one cannot see the German forest for the trees.ny and Italy, are smothered beneath the fluctuating rise and fall of liberal politics. In short, Sheehan overemphasizes the impact of German liberalism and underestimates the importance of the larger events that set the mold. It is uncertain whether liberalism, as Sheehan portrays it, is the chicken or the egg. The strength of the book lies in Sheehan's methodical analysis of the complex movement itself. Although not ignoring the social-economic aspect all together, the author dispels the general assumption that German liberals, like their Western European counterparts, were primarily made up of middle class business strata. Instead, Sheehan proves that the German intelligentsia composed the majority of the political body. Sheehan wonderfully illustrates the diversity of the liberal movement that resulted in competing factions from extreme left to extreme right within the party. This of course, prevented a solid cohesiveness that could have otherwise made the Liberal party a force to be reckoned with. Yet it was the constant struggle between Volk and Staat that remained the nemesis of the German liberal party; a point Sheehan develops well throughout the book. On the down side, it is a fallacy to conclude that the failure of the German liberal party paved the way for Nazism. The very nature of European parliamentary politics is too diverse to assume by removing one element from the mix allows the polar opposite to take hold. Sheehan holds that World War I was the straw the broke the liberal party, yet, here again, ignores the conventional historical determinants: Germany's humiliation after losing the war, the world-wide depression of the 1930's and the rise of Communism usually associated with the rise of the Nazi Party leaves his conclusion unconvincing. Although not for the faint of heart, Sheehan has written a striking piece on German liberalism that constitutes a major contribution to the field. At times, however, one cannot see the German forest for the trees.	2005-01-13
US	52858201	RNBXGJNGXVC1H	0520206983	886413998	Seducing the French: The Dilemma of Americanization	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Fascinating Study, Obvious Conclusions	Richard Kuisel ponders whether the so called \\"seduction\\" of the French people my the material based consumer society of America in the years since World War II has caused the French to lose their identity, or \\"Frenchness.\\" \\"Curiosity as to why the French once perceived America so harshly and later seemed to succumb to the American way of life,\\" writes Kuisel, \\" is a natural response for an American historian who has studied and lived in France\\" The key word here is \\"seemed.\\" After reading a little over two hundred pages of Professor Kuisel's book the foregone conclusion and obvious answer to the query he posed in the Preface is no, the French did not lose their Frenchness. The French did not \\"succumb to the American way of life\\" by drinking Coca-Cola, watching Hollywood films or listening to American Jazz any more than Americans would lose their identity by driving Japanese automobiles or sporting Italian shoes. If this conclusion seems obvious, it is! Mr. Kuisel has written a significant study, and enjoyable read, however, in the process, he has not shattered any existing historical or sociological paradigms. The author has divided his study of the French reaction to modernization and America in the post-war years into three categories: intellectual, economic, and cultural considerations. The strength of Kuisel's book lies in the placing of French sentiment towards the Americans in historical context. Yet this strength contains a dual nature and perhaps conceals a hidden weakness. On the one hand, placing anti-American outlooks within the context of Cold War politics reveals legitimate reasons for French emotions running high. France, as well as West Germany, stood in between to armed camps. If a cataclysmic Third World War was going to eventually come about, France, as was the case in the previous two global conflicts, would once again become a battlefield. This should be a realization for those who have come to believe that the French just hate Americans period. On the other hand, however, a vast majority of anti-Americanism was coming from a logical place: Leftist propaganda via \\"Le Monde\\" and other predominantly Leftist publications. Although Kuisel admits that anti-American feelings existed on the Right as well, he fails to provide an adequate comparative political analysis. The result of this omission is, once again, an obvious conclusion for the source of Anti-American sentiment, rather than an astonishing revelation. The French Communists also played an influential role in trying to ban the import of Coca-Cola. The author provides an impressive explanation of the arguments against the importing of the famous American soft drink. French farmers and wine growers as well as other soft drink manufacturers had a legitimate gripe against the possible consequences of an influx of Coca-Cola, yet in the long run, the Communists exhausted their political machinations and American pressure won out. The battle with Coca-Cola was purely political and Kuisel's argument that it represented \\"a symbolic controversy ... derived from French fear of growing American domination in a political economic and cultural sense\\" is not well substantiated.  In spite of his leaning towards the obvious, Kuisel has provided us with a significant work of post-war French cultural history. Any one who reads this book will come away with a better understanding of the French and why their feelings about Americans have evolved and transformed in the post-war decades. For those that were anticipating an American victory over France in the culture wars, however, may be somewhat disappointed. Cest le guerre!On the other hand, however, a vast majority of anti-Americanism was coming from a logical place: Leftist propaganda via \\"Le Monde\\" and other predominantly Leftist publications. Although Kuisel admits that anti-American feelings existed on the Right as well, he fails to provide an adequate comparative political analysis. The result of this omission is, once again, an obvious conclusion for the source of Anti-American sentiment, rather than an astonishing revelation. The French Communists also played an influential role in trying to ban the import of Coca-Cola. The author provides an impressive explanation of the arguments against the importing of the famous American soft drink. French farmers and wine growers as well as other soft drink manufacturers had a legitimate gripe against the possible consequences of an influx of Coca-Cola, yet in the long run, the Communists exhausted their political machinations and American pressure won out. The battle with Coca-Cola was purely political and Kuisel's argument that it represented \\"a symbolic controversy ... derived from French fear of growing American domination in a political economic and cultural sense\\" is not well substantiated.  In spite of his leaning towards the obvious, Kuisel has provided us with a significant work of post-war French cultural history. Any one who reads this book will come away with a better understanding of the French and why their feelings about Americans have evolved and transformed in the post-war decades. For those that were anticipating an American victory over France in the culture wars, however, may be somewhat disappointed. Cest le guerre!	2005-01-13
US	52858201	RB1XMB5X9RYUR	0394716582	471052908	Mussolini: A Biography	Books	5	16	18	N	N	The Definitive Poltical Biography of Mussolini	Denis Mack Smith has written the definitive political biography of Bonito Mussolini. This work built upon a foundation of short, clear and concise paragraphs make for an enthralling read on the life of the fascist dictator known to millions as IL DUCE. Born in 1883, of humble beginnings on a small Italian village, Mussolini would possess a complex character throughout his life to become one of the three most infamous totalitarian dictators of the twentieth century. Mussolini changed his political ideology from socialist left to fascist right like an actor changes costume. As a result, he became one of the most loved and, ultimately, the most hated by his people. Although slated as a political narrative of fascism, it is the diverse character Mussolini that shines through in Mack Smith's work. As the author points out, \\"Italian fascism was more than just Mussolini. But the quirks of character in this one man were a crucial factor in both its successes and failures.\\" Mack Smith organized his book in short thematic chapters and sub-headings with an ample supply of dates to guide his audience along. He begins by painting Mussolini's troubled youth as a knife wielding bully that led to numerous expulsions from local schools. Mussolini's father, a blacksmith and active member of the socialist party who had an affinity for drinking and womanizing, suggests Mack Smith, may have had a significant influence in Mussolini's early development and eventual socialist leanings. His mother, a devout catholic and schoolteacher tried her best to keep young Bonito in school. The cantankerous youth would go on to teach school himself, however, for the most part, he led the life of a young Bohemian sporting an unkempt appearance and writing mediocre poetry. Mack Smith is diligent to delve beneath the propaganda myth commonly associated with Bonito Mussolini. The author's favorite source of exposure are several autobiographies written by Mussolini as well as a host of other manuscripts penned by the dictator. Rather than attempting to psychoanalyze his subject, Mack Smith illustrates the true nature of Mussolini that just seems to make good historical sense. Even the many references to Mussolini's various sexual escapades are not included as a motive for sensationalistic journalism, but rather, to illustrate the dysfunctional complex character that was Mussolini. Unintentionally, or perhaps not, the author raises the question of gender in early twentieth century Italy. Was violence at the point of a knife and wanton sexual exploits inherent to the psychological make-up of the Italian male? Mack Smith does not elude to have the answer but the question arises nonetheless. A number of mistresses would play a prominent role even to the end of his life when \\"Clara Petacci stood by him to the last and insisted on dying with him.\\" The weaknesses of this book are slight. Some have argued that Mack Smith remains to narrowly focused on his subject and fails to provide an adequate historical context. This is not too glaring a defect. The author prepares us early on that this is a political biography of Bonito Mussolini, not a history of fascist Italy in the 1920s and 30s. The author makes it clear, however, that \\"...the birth and development of fascism owe far more to this one man than anyone else.\\" At times, Mack Smith is perhaps too concise. For example, the masterfully planned and flawlessly executed mission conducted by Otto Skorzeny, to rescue Mussolini at Badoglio, deserves more than the half paragraph Mack Smith devotes to it. Nevertheless, this book is the best treatment of the first fascist dictator. It serves both as a general introduction, and paves the way for further readings. All in all, the book is a significant addition to totalitarian literature.nned by the dictator. Rather than attempting to psychoanalyze his subject, Mack Smith illustrates the true nature of Mussolini that just seems to make good historical sense. Even the many references to Mussolini's various sexual escapades are not included as a motive for sensationalistic journalism, but rather, to illustrate the dysfunctional complex character that was Mussolini. Unintentionally, or perhaps not, the author raises the question of gender in early twentieth century Italy. Was violence at the point of a knife and wanton sexual exploits inherent to the psychological make-up of the Italian male? Mack Smith does not elude to have the answer but the question arises nonetheless. A number of mistresses would play a prominent role even to the end of his life when \\"Clara Petacci stood by him to the last and insisted on dying with him.\\" The weaknesses of this book are slight. Some have argued that Mack Smith remains to narrowly focused on his subject and fails to provide an adequate historical context. This is not too glaring a defect. The author prepares us early on that this is a political biography of Bonito Mussolini, not a history of fascist Italy in the 1920s and 30s. The author makes it clear, however, that \\"...the birth and development of fascism owe far more to this one man than anyone else.\\" At times, Mack Smith is perhaps too concise. For example, the masterfully planned and flawlessly executed mission conducted by Otto Skorzeny, to rescue Mussolini at Badoglio, deserves more than the half paragraph Mack Smith devotes to it. Nevertheless, this book is the best treatment of the first fascist dictator. It serves both as a general introduction, and paves the way for further readings. All in all, the book is a significant addition to totalitarian literature.	2005-01-13
US	52858201	R26AG0BXZ2DAUF	0394744780	699529551	Fin-De-Siecle Vienna: Politics and Culture	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Need Your Home Interior Remodeled? Call an Historian!	How does an historian, whose job it is to interpret the past, come to terms with a cultural movement built upon the concept of modernity rejoicing in the death of history? This is exactly the question posed by Carl E. Schorske in his book Fin-De-Siecle Vienna Politics and Culture. In a series of essays, which the author admits are not meant to be interlaced, Schorske examines Vienna's cultural reaction to both the decline of Liberalism and the end of the Habsburg Empire. The task of merging politics and culture is not an easy undertaking and the faint-hearted reader should beware. \\"Just as a knowledge of the critical methods of modern science is necessary for interpreting that science historically,\\" writes Schorske, \\"so a knowledge of the kinds of analysis practiced by modern humanists is necessary for coming to grips with the makers of twentieth-century non scientific knowledge\\" (p. xxi). Yet this brand of historical analysis is not that simple as Schorske goes on to explain. It appears, still more separates the historian from the humanist. According to Schorske, a dual approach is required when attempting to analyze cultural history. This binary-method is analogous, he argues, to a vertical and diagonal line. In the \\"diachronic\\" or vertical line, the historian more or less places the cultural in its historical context. In the \\"synchronic\\" or horizontal line, he or she looks at the relationship of the particular element of culture studied with what else is going on in the world of art, music, literature, and architecture. In a useful analogy, the author believes \\"The diachronic thread is the warp, the synchronic one is the woof in the fabric of cultural history. The historian is the weaver, but the quality of his cloth depends on the strength and color of the thread\\" (p. xxii). But what does this all mean? The essays that follow, though providing an enjoyable read, raise some doubts about Schorske's conclusions. The strength lies in the author's ability to place the culture of late nineteenth century Vienna in its historical context. In the opening \\"Politics and Psyche: Schnitz and Hofmannsthal,\\" Schorske successfully ties the other essays together by introducing the two strands of Austrian fin-de-siecle culture:moralistic-scientific and the aesthetic. A conventional historian may feel more at home with the former, however, the aesthetic aspect is more difficult for many of us, to borrow a trite cliche, to carve in stone. Arguing functionality versus aesthetically appealing, or the placing of ancient Greek statuary on the steps of the Parliament building because Vienna had no past, therefore, it had no political heroes of its own to memorialize in sculpture, needless to say is unconvincing. Since Schorske cites no government documents, to back up his claims of Liberal motives and intentions in urban modernization, for example, his analysis of the connection between politics and culture borders on pure conjecture. The Freudian injection, resulting in the weakest essay of the book should have been omitted. Aside from the above-mentioned flaws, the book is interesting. Schorske's possesses a clear literary style, that helps the reader survive this graduate level sleeper. The addition of color plates, an anachronism in today's budgeted publishing industry was a welcome sight indeed. Yet, one wonders if such abstract concepts as modernity and aesthetics ought to be left to those more qualified outside the historical profession. Such studies, as art criticism itself, surely leave room for varying interpretations that open the doors for open debate.e culture of late nineteenth century Vienna in its historical context. In the opening \\"Politics and Psyche: Schnitz and Hofmannsthal,\\" Schorske successfully ties the other essays together by introducing the two strands of Austrian fin-de-siecle culture:moralistic-scientific and the aesthetic. A conventional historian may feel more at home with the former, however, the aesthetic aspect is more difficult for many of us, to borrow a trite cliche, to carve in stone. Arguing functionality versus aesthetically appealing, or the placing of ancient Greek statuary on the steps of the Parliament building because Vienna had no past, therefore, it had no political heroes of its own to memorialize in sculpture, needless to say is unconvincing. Since Schorske cites no government documents, to back up his claims of Liberal motives and intentions in urban modernization, for example, his analysis of the connection between politics and culture borders on pure conjecture. The Freudian injection, resulting in the weakest essay of the book should have been omitted. Aside from the above-mentioned flaws, the book is interesting. Schorske's possesses a clear literary style, that helps the reader survive this graduate level sleeper. The addition of color plates, an anachronism in today's budgeted publishing industry was a welcome sight indeed. Yet, one wonders if such abstract concepts as modernity and aesthetics ought to be left to those more qualified outside the historical profession. Such studies, as art criticism itself, surely leave room for varying interpretations that open the doors for open debate.	2005-01-13
US	52858201	R5BINYPHV2EJ9	0521094186	197776011	The Unbound Prometheus: Technical Change and Industrial Development in Western Europe from 1750 to Present	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Jack of all Trades, Master of None?	\\"It was the Industrial Revolution, writes historian David S. Landes, \\"that initiated a cumulative, self sustaining advance in technology whose repercussions would be felt in all aspects of economic life.\\" He goes on to demonstrate that the Industrial Revolution had a birth, maturation, and decline. According to Landes, European nations reached these three stages of development at different intervals thus evoking varying degrees of economic progress and growth. In a work that might be deemed purely economic history, Landes treads that fine line between these two academic disciplines. As an historian, Landes has faired quite well. As an economist, however, Landes' findings could lead one to ponder: is it possible to be an expert in both fields?  Landes has utilized a chronological method in an effort to answer the aged old question: why did the Industrial Revolution take place in Western Europe when it did? The author agrees that Great Britain was the initiator, or leader of the Industrial Revolution, and all other countries followed suit with varying degrees of economic growth. Landes credits England's natural geographic infrastructure of navigable rivers along with its social compatibility (this last point raised an eyebrow, as England has always been known for its rigid class divisions) as the basis for Britain's early industrialization. The chapters illustrating how England's early rural cotton cottage manufacturing developed into an intricate network of textile factories, the affects of imperial acquisitions and colonialism, and the evolutionary process of technology in the form of industrial machinery, made for a compelling read. The author also explores such social phenomenon as the Protestant work ethic, the concept of rationality, and the human tendency to control nature as contributing factors in Britain's eventual industrialization and modernization. Landes handled these more abstract interpretations admirably. The author utilizes a plethora of sources to support his argument. From the early writings of Adam Smith and Max Weber to a wide range of economic journals and published material, Landes has synthesized his argument credible. The author makes use of some tables, especially when comparing Europe's iron and steel production, however, his tendency to express his statistics in a narrative form instead of utilizing more tables and graphs can be confusing at times. The total absence of maps is another hinderance.Landes has put forth a valiant effort but perhaps his plate was too full. If the old adage of \\"jack of all trades, master of none,\\" holds true here, one might mull over where Landes' strengths lie. In a book full of economic theory, sociology, demographics, statistical data and last but not least, history, is it possible for a scholar to be proficient in all these areas? For those proponents of the departmentalization of the Humanities, Landes' work will stir some reaction. As for this reviewer, I enjoyed the book and would recommend it to those wishing to delve deeper into this fascinating era of European history. Keep a pot of coffee brewing.upport his argument. From the early writings of Adam Smith and Max Weber to a wide range of economic journals and published material, Landes has synthesized his argument credible. The author makes use of some tables, especially when comparing Europe's iron and steel production, however, his tendency to express his statistics in a narrative form instead of utilizing more tables and graphs can be confusing at times. The total absence of maps is another hinderance.Landes has put forth a valiant effort but perhaps his plate was too full. If the old adage of \\"jack of all trades, master of none,\\" holds true here, one might mull over where Landes' strengths lie. In a book full of economic theory, sociology, demographics, statistical data and last but not least, history, is it possible for a scholar to be proficient in all these areas? For those proponents of the departmentalization of the Humanities, Landes' work will stir some reaction. As for this reviewer, I enjoyed the book and would recommend it to those wishing to delve deeper into this fascinating era of European history. Keep a pot of coffee brewing.	2005-01-13
US	52858201	R1LQG30RH3VTFV	0521299519	273813878	Work and Revolution in France: The Language of Labor from the Old Regime to 1848	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Early Benchmark in Post-Modern Historical Methods	William H. Sewell argues that the analysis of early nineteenth century French labor idiom reveals its roots were firmly established in Ancien Regime artisan   corporations. Revealing what the author calls a \\"little- noticed paradox,\\" Sewell discovered \\"the discourse of revolutionary workers of 1848 was laced with seemingly archaic terminology dating from the guild and corporate system of the old regime ... founded on a very old sense of craft community.\\" Although intended to incorporate the elements of social history and langage, Sewell adds that a thorough understanding of the overall political perspective is essential to this well-rounded study. His argument is convincing and his methods, at the time of publication, must have shed new light on the historical profession. Sewell is up front about the limitations of his study and the methods he incorporates, however. Admitting he prefers to avoid existing historiographical debates, the author stresses he is \\"attempting to sketch out a new map that will indicate relations between already explored regions and suggest useful approaches to those not yet explored.\\" Pointing out that historical evidence of labor, particularly in France, is primarily confined to the local or regional level; Sewell stresses the need to incorporate an overall political ideology into the mix. Paradoxically, however, Sewell warns that political ideology emanating from Paris   may not necessarily reflect the thoughts of workers in rural regions of France. In addition, the authorl borrows methods from cultural anthropology to illustrate how such practices as religious festivals shaped peoples ideas and experiences, yet warns that not all sociological practices, such as ethnography, for instance, benefit the historian. For any historian attempting to reveal a \\"collective conscience\\" of the French labor before, during, and after the French Revolution, the task is nothing less than daunting. Regardless, his emphasis on historical methods gives strength too the notion of exploring new areas by fusing various fields of the Humanities. Sewell has synthesized his information well. His chronological approach, detailing the origins of corporate practices; particularly the Journeyman's Compagnonnage makes for interesting reading, however, his argument sometimes gets buried in the narrative. By the time the reader reaches the crux of the author's main focus-language (page 179)-one could perhaps become confused and forget the \\"map\\" the author so eloquently laid out in his opening chapters. In spite of the main argument sometimes becoming lost in the shuffle, the author's conclusions reveal a well-researched thesis and a significant postmodern contribution to the history of labor.gth too the notion of exploring new areas by fusing various fields of the Humanities. Sewell has synthesized his information well. His chronological approach, detailing the origins of corporate practices; particularly the Journeyman's Compagnonnage makes for interesting reading, however, his argument sometimes gets buried in the narrative. By the time the reader reaches the crux of the author's main focus-language (page 179)-one could perhaps become confused and forget the \\"map\\" the author so eloquently laid out in his opening chapters. In spite of the main argument sometimes becoming lost in the shuffle, the author's conclusions reveal a well-researched thesis and a significant postmodern contribution to the history of labor.	2005-01-13
US	52858201	RYPUG7TTAIJ9G	0891417826	32382852	Steel Victory: The Heroic Story of America's Independent Tank Battalions at War in Europe	Books	4	9	10	N	Y	A Long-standing Gap in the ETO Canon is Filled!	Author Harry Yeide has contributed one of the most gripping reads to hit the ETO lexicon in quite some time. With fast-paced combat narrative, and thorough research, Yeide has filled a long-standing gap in the European campaigns of 1944-45. The author tells the story of the American independent tank battalions that were attached to infantry divisions, and analyses the many tactical, and command and control problems this unique marriage entailed. Unlike America's armored divisions, whose ideal doctrine called for rapid exploitation, and deep penetration, the independent tank battalions moved at the infantry's pace. This homogeneous relationship presented problems throughout the ten month campaigns, as the author competently demonstrates. Yeide's narrative is clean, concise and to the point throughout. Tackling a topic that could easily fill volumes, the author never allows himself to get bogged down in a myriad of facts, or jargon. At just over 300-pages, this work can easily be consumed within a weekend. Undoubtedly, Yeide's gripping narrative is the strongest feature of the book. Organizational appendices add to the resourceful appeal, however, the five-pages of maps are over-simplified. The author hits on several important themes. Foremost, he points out that independent tank battalions were trained only in how to get ashore on D-Day, but not how to conduct operations from then on. Therefore, their primary role, that of supporting infantry, was a learn-as-you-go, on the job training process, throughout the campaigns in France and, Germany. The author touches on several significant technical innovations, such as infantry-tank radio communications, and special weapons. Some of the latter, like shells designed to penetrate concrete, and a tank deployed bangalore torpedo, called a \\"Snake\\" proved reasonably effective. Others, like a huge rollers fixed to the front of tanks to detonate land mines, were considered junk by many of the tankers. Yeide shows that for the first half of the campaigns in Northwest Europe, these tank battalions were attached fairly permanently (organic) to their perspective infantry divisions. Later, as manpower shortages were felt, tank battalions were repeatedly detached and attached to a variety of new infantry units. This parcelling out to unfamiliar infantry commanders with varying tactical notions on how to deploy tanks, presented more problems for the tank crews. The author's research is thorough, yet not meticulous. His notes cite sources, but are not explanatory. Yeide leans heavily on unit After-Action Reports (AARs), and quotes many at length. These passages are surprisingly reader-friendly, since AARs are usually dull, as a rule. These documents focus on problems encountered, and lessons learned in tank-infantry cooperation. Some contain insightful participant testimonies, gleaned from interviews after the battle. The ten-page verbatim transcript of radio chatter between tanks and infantry, was pushing this a bit too far, however. The author consults the usual secondary sources. A glaring omission, however, is Michael D. Doubler's _Closing With the Enemy: How GIs Fought the War in Europe, 1944-1945_ (1994), a benchmark in ETO tactical evolution. Yeide's work will appeal to the hardcore military historian, as well as the amateur buff. Yeide's work gets four-stars and comes highly recommended!st half of the campaigns in Northwest Europe, these tank battalions were attached fairly permanently (organic) to their perspective infantry divisions. Later, as manpower shortages were felt, tank battalions were repeatedly detached and attached to a variety of new infantry units. This parcelling out to unfamiliar infantry commanders with varying tactical notions on how to deploy tanks, presented more problems for the tank crews. The author's research is thorough, yet not meticulous. His notes cite sources, but are not explanatory. Yeide leans heavily on unit After-Action Reports (AARs), and quotes many at length. These passages are surprisingly reader-friendly, since AARs are usually dull, as a rule. These documents focus on problems encountered, and lessons learned in tank-infantry cooperation. Some contain insightful participant testimonies, gleaned from interviews after the battle. The ten-page verbatim transcript of radio chatter between tanks and infantry, was pushing this a bit too far, however. The author consults the usual secondary sources. A glaring omission, however, is Michael D. Doubler's _Closing With the Enemy: How GIs Fought the War in Europe, 1944-1945_ (1994), a benchmark in ETO tactical evolution. Yeide's work will appeal to the hardcore military historian, as well as the amateur buff. Yeide's work gets four-stars and comes highly recommended!	2005-01-10
US	52858201	R1VAASIFKJI4VB	1853674605	856339587	Fighting In Normandy: The German Army from D-Day to Villers-Bocage	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Great Primary Source, Poor Editing!	This volume in the \\"World War II German Debriefs\\" series covers the week of 7-13 June 1944, when the German forces in Normandy were contemplating how to throw the Allied invasion forces back into the sea. It contains succinct transcribed reports by German staff officers submitted to the U.S. Army Intelligence staff after the war. The first seven \\"Parts,\\" coincide with the dates 7-13 June inclusively. \\"Part Eight\\" is a Summery of \\"Panzers in Normandy,\\" while \\"Part Nine\\" covers \\"The Reasons for the Defeat.\\" There are roughly ten reports per Part, covering all aspects of the invasion front, command decisions, deployment of units, strategy and tactics. Each Part begins with a brief historical synopsis by David C. Isby, the book's editor. Since the end of World War II, historians have criticized the reports stemming from the other side of the hill. Too much repetitiveness of German officers blaming Adolf Hitler, they claim, for his paranoid micro-managing of paper armies, which, in the case of the D-Day invasion, was his decision to hold back Panzer reserves too far from the beaches for a swift counterattack. The German emphasis on Allied material advantages, particularly air superiority, is another of the chief criticisms of the historians. There are some of those conclusions here as well, but there are many insightful and interesting morsels contained within these pages. For example, the first German reinforcements to enter the fray were Anti-Aircraft units that were deployed strategically along vital German supply routes. Although this decision did not alleviate the Allied control of the air, it made them pay a heavier toll for strafing German columns. Secondly, a mysterious \\"lost order\\" incident occurred when an order deriving from the U.S. V Corps, detailing the entire American plans for the invasion of Normandy, washed ashore and into German hands. Probably not since General Robert E. Lee's famous lost order at the Battle of Antietam, has such a twist of fate occurred. Fritz Ziegelmann, a staff officer with 352. Infanterie-division, could not believe what he held in his hand on June 7. On the journey up the chain of command, its importance diminished, however. After languishing at Seventh Army (7. Armee) Headquarters for several days, it finally reached Rommel's Army Group B. There, according to Ziegelmann, the American order was not taken seriously; what else would explain the piece-meal arrival of German reinforcements? Though informative, these reports are sometimes dry, and otherwise dull. Their principle significance is that of a primary resource for researchers. Absent is any semblance of an Introduction explaining how, why, where, and by whom, these German Debriefs were conducted. This is inexcusable! A one-page Introduction would suffice, and add vital information to the collection. In addition, a brief biological blurb of each author of the reports would have been a major asset. Transcribing reports is easy, researching their origin and authors takes time, effort, and money, something the publisher was not willing to invest. Finally, there are no explanatory notes about the content of these reports what-so-ever. Thus, the diligent researcher has no choice but to rely on the integrity of the copying and editing (or lack there-off) process for authenticity. But, for those who cannot journey to the respective archival repositories, this collection offers a substantial window of the defenders of Normandy.red. Fritz Ziegelmann, a staff officer with 352. Infanterie-division, could not believe what he held in his hand on June 7. On the journey up the chain of command, its importance diminished, however. After languishing at Seventh Army (7. Armee) Headquarters for several days, it finally reached Rommel's Army Group B. There, according to Ziegelmann, the American order was not taken seriously; what else would explain the piece-meal arrival of German reinforcements? Though informative, these reports are sometimes dry, and otherwise dull. Their principle significance is that of a primary resource for researchers. Absent is any semblance of an Introduction explaining how, why, where, and by whom, these German Debriefs were conducted. This is inexcusable! A one-page Introduction would suffice, and add vital information to the collection. In addition, a brief biological blurb of each author of the reports would have been a major asset. Transcribing reports is easy, researching their origin and authors takes time, effort, and money, something the publisher was not willing to invest. Finally, there are no explanatory notes about the content of these reports what-so-ever. Thus, the diligent researcher has no choice but to rely on the integrity of the copying and editing (or lack there-off) process for authenticity. But, for those who cannot journey to the respective archival repositories, this collection offers a substantial window of the defenders of Normandy.	2005-01-10
US	52858201	R259R568CG97A3	1585442585	844240146	A Dark and Bloody Ground: The Hurtgen Forest and the Roer River Dams, 1944-1945	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Same Sad Song: Miller Covers MacDonald's First Hit	If _ A Dark and Bloody Ground: The Hurtgen Forest and the Roer River Dams 1944-1945_ (1995) were a song, it would be a cover tune first recorded by Charles B. MacDonald in 1963 (see my review of MacDonald's _The Battle of the Huertgen Forest_). Like Elvis Presley's rendition of Frank Sinatra's standard \\"My Way,\\" opinion would vary as to who performed the song better. A younger generation might even hold that Presley was the original artist, while older fans would stand by Sinatra's as the better performance. The song has not changed, only the artist's style and delivery has. Such is the case with Edward G. Miller's contribution to the Huertgen Forest canon.  Miller emphatically echoes MacDonald's original thesis that the American planners chose road junctions and towns as primary objectives when in fact they should have concentrated their efforts on two Roer River dams. Miller contends that the dams should have been the main objective from the onset of the campaign. If this had been the case, he argues, there would have been no need to enter the Huertgen Forest, thus eliminating the chance of becoming embroiled in a bitter contest there. In addition, Miller supports the claim that in order for the Americans to cross the Roer River successfully they first had to secure the dams to prevent the Germans from destroying them, flooding the entire region, and causing substantial delay. This last point is just the type of 20/20 hindsight that Miller and others cannot resist when supporting this argument. This is exactly what happened in February 1945, delaying the American attack crossing of the Roer River by two weeks.Miller also rehashes other criticisms such as the Americans had sacrificed mobility and firepower by entering the forest; the American planner's failure to consider the harsh weather conditions and terrain favorable to the defense, and the forest should have been by-passed altogether.  As narrative history, Miller is top-notch. The author skillfully retells the sequence of events that made up the Huertgen Forest Campaign. From the VII Corps's first encounter with the forest in September 1944; the failed October attacks of the 9th Division; the tragedy of the 28th Division efforts in and around heavily fortified town of Schmidt in early November; to the renewed two-corps offensive that finally broke out of the forest. Miller covers the complete campaign with thoroughness and efficiency.Along the way, Miller conducted an enormous amount of research that includes the standard primary and secondary sources, as well as a substantial amount of correspondence and personal interviews from both American and German veterans of the fighting. The author has certainly succeeded in blending thorough analysis with readable narrative, however, he got a little careless at one point. To support a contention that Eisenhower and the high command were obsessed with reaching the Rhine River in favor of destroying German forces, Miller paraphrased Martin Blumenson in the official history. Upon checking this source, it clearly showed Blumenson was referring to Germans trapped within the Falaise Pocket in August 1944, not at the German border as Miller had hinted. The biggest question with all these notions is \\"how? How should the Huertgen Forest have been avoided? The author admits that it would probably been dangerous for the Americans to by-pass the forest initially, but that this does not mean First Army should have committed units time and time again in a fruitless battle of attrition. I agree! Miller states that the area north of the city of Aachen presented the best avenue of approach into Germany, yet he stops there without substantiating this claim or offering a suggestion of how this maneuver could have been carried out. How could the dams have been captured earlier? Miller implies that had there not been an American manpower shortage, they \\"might have succeeded\\" in taking the Roer River Dams in September or October. Again, the authoroffers no clear plan on how this would have been performed. He then goes on to state that had V Corps been reinforced with one or two regiments, it \\"would likely have\\" taken the two dams in November. \\"Ifs,\\" \\"might haves\\" and \\"would likely haves\\" are not concrete enough in this unending controversy. Miller has written a fine book, equal to MacDonalds first study. That is an impressive achievement in itself. Whether you like the cover tune or the original is a matter of taste. They are both the same sad song.r offers no clear plan on how this would have been performed. He then goes on to state that had V Corps been reinforced with one or two regiments, it \\"would likely have\\" taken the two dams in November. \\"Ifs,\\" \\"might haves\\" and \\"would likely haves\\" are not concrete enough in this unending controversy. Miller has written a fine book, equal to MacDonalds first study. That is an impressive achievement in itself. Whether you like the cover tune or the original is a matter of taste. They are both the same sad song.	2004-11-11
US	52858201	R2PWBGPYX186VT	1580970559	846546894	Battle Of Hurtgen Forest (West Wall)	Books	2	26	36	N	N	Supermarket Tabloid at its Worst!	Charles Whiting's _Battle for Hurtgen Forest_ begins harmlessly enough by openly questioning the legitimacy of the Huertgen operation and describing the brutality of the fighting and the harshness of the unforgiving terrain. In spite of the hardships of life at the front, Whiting quickly describes the efforts that were made to provide some rest and recreation for the American infantrymen. Whiting tells of Red Cross club mobiles set up in the Rear where ladies would hand out doughnuts and free coffee to the tired troops. There were also United Service Organization (USO) Shows that included such celebrities as German-born actress Marlene Dietrich. From this point on, however, this informative account takes a bitter turn for the worse.\\"But for young men whose life expectancy in the infantry was exceedingly limited,\\" contends Whiting, \\"something else was needed - women.\\"  The author rants on how soldiers were routinely rotated out of the line for seventy-two-hour passes to Paris. Like a writer of bad pulp fiction, the author digresses into the city's famous red-light district the Americans all too commonly referred to as \\"Pig Alley.\\" There, explains Whiting, \\"whores\\" who had serviced Germans for the previous four years were now infecting Americans by the hundreds with venereal disease.  \\"That fall,\\" observes Whiting, \\"the United States Army sent 606 men, the equivalent of a battalion daily to the 'pox doctor.'\\" Unfortunately, the author fails to cite a single source and provides no evidence for this claim.Whiting jabs that while Americans were dying in combat, carousing in Paris, or deserting by the thousands (again no citation), Supreme Allied Commander Dwight Eisenhower was living comfortably in a French Chateau. Whiting takes every opportunity to discredit anyone close to Ike,  especially his British \\"chauffer-cum-mistress\\" Kaye Summersby. Similarly, he refers to General Everett S. Hughes as Ike's \\"card-playing, hard drinking womanizing crony\\" who once called a WAC [Women's Army Corps] \\"a double breasted GI with a built in foxhole.\\" Whiting, once again, fails to cite a source or give evidence for this last sexist remark.Whiting goes beyond the Huertgen time-frame into The Battle of the Bulge, not to illustrate its correlation to the Huertgen Campaign, but rather to exemplify the  social gaiety at Eisenhower's Headquarters. As the author explains, while the German Panzer spearheads were roaring through the Ardennes, General Eisenhower was attending a wedding and champagne reception for two junior members of his staff. In yet another effort of tabloid journalism Whitingrecounts the delicacies being served:Eisenhower's 'darkies' as he called his black mess servants, were preparing oysters on the half shell, followed by oyster stew, with fried oysters concluding the festive pre-Christmas meal. And on-and-on!Whiting's sarcasm is evident-his message is clear, his evidence is severely lacking.  Obviously, the author's purpose for writing this sensationalism is to sell books. In fairness, Whiting makes some legitimate points concerning the Huertgen Forest battles and it is safe to assume that few readers are naive enough to think that high-ranking officers did not enjoy considerable more creature comforts than the combat rifleman sweating it out in a foxhole in the Huertgen Forest. It is the sardonic style in which he chose to present this view, however, that greatly lessens his credibility as a serious historian, something the opening paragraphs of the book initially suggest. The telling of the love affairs of generals may sell books but is of little importance in the thorough analysis of a significant battle such as the Huertgen Forest. Read MacDonald, Miller, Astor, or Rush, and leave this tabloid on the supermarket check-out stand.Women's Army Corps] \\"a double breasted GI with a built in foxhole.\\" Whiting, once again, fails to cite a source or give evidence for this last sexist remark.Whiting goes beyond the Huertgen time-frame into The Battle of the Bulge, not to illustrate its correlation to the Huertgen Campaign, but rather to exemplify the  social gaiety at Eisenhower's Headquarters. As the author explains, while the German Panzer spearheads were roaring through the Ardennes, General Eisenhower was attending a wedding and champagne reception for two junior members of his staff. In yet another effort of tabloid journalism Whitingrecounts the delicacies being served:Eisenhower's 'darkies' as he called his black mess servants, were preparing oysters on the half shell, followed by oyster stew, with fried oysters concluding the festive pre-Christmas meal. And on-and-on!Whiting's sarcasm is evident-his message is clear, his evidence is severely lacking.  Obviously, the author's purpose for writing this sensationalism is to sell books. In fairness, Whiting makes some legitimate points concerning the Huertgen Forest battles and it is safe to assume that few readers are naive enough to think that high-ranking officers did not enjoy considerable more creature comforts than the combat rifleman sweating it out in a foxhole in the Huertgen Forest. It is the sardonic style in which he chose to present this view, however, that greatly lessens his credibility as a serious historian, something the opening paragraphs of the book initially suggest. The telling of the love affairs of generals may sell books but is of little importance in the thorough analysis of a significant battle such as the Huertgen Forest. Read MacDonald, Miller, Astor, or Rush, and leave this tabloid on the supermarket check-out stand.	2004-11-08
US	52858201	R3V3AZ2AIN6DZL	0921991568	728324776	Normandy 1944: German Military Organization, Combat Power and Organizational Effectiveness	Books	3	24	27	N	Y	Too Many Ingredients Ruined the Stew!	Niklas Zetterling's _Normandy 1944: ..._ prompts this reviewer to ponder an unanswered question: who should accept the lion's share of the blame for a poorly organized finished product: the author, or the publisher? Zetterling had several irons in the fire with this work. It appears some professional guidance would have been in order to keep the author focused to pursue one goal for one book, not many.In Part 1: \\"Campaign Analysis\\" (pp. 1-113), Zetterling presents a competent scholarly study of German combat efficiency during the Normandy Campaign. The author introduces several contentions: the effects of Allied Air power were more of a nuisance to German movements and decision making, rather than destructive; German casualty figures were grossly inflated in Allied participant memoirs, and by western historians; the Allied forces did not enjoy numerical superiority over the Germans, as previously thought; and, collectively, the German units deployed in Normandy performed better than their Allied adversaries. Zetterling stresses throughout that gleaning data from surviving German archival material only (a practice most historians do not do), supports his conclusions. Along the way, Zetterling argues, more accurately, broadsides the works of other historians, most notably: Stephen Ambrose and Peter R. Mansoor. Zetterling tends to digress into other campaigns such as The Battle of the Bulge, and those on the Russian Front. This is more than comparative in nature, to the point where one almost forgets this is supposed to be a book about Normandy. Still, with some polishing, this first part could have emerged as a book length publication, or at least a good series of scholarly articles.In Part 2. \\"German Combat Formations\\" (pp. 117-392), the author presents an order of battle reference of German combat units in Normandy. Zetterling focuses mostly on artillery, infantry, and armor formations, but also includes miscellaneous units such as: airborne and Luftwaffe field divisions. Zetterling presents organization and movement information, but little else.The research extends down to battalion level in most cases, to the exclusion of details relating to higher headquarters such as Army and Corps. I was disappointed to find nothing more than mere mention of the German LXXXIV Armee Korps, a headquarters I am particularly interested in. Zetterling's data is extensive, but suffers the same maladies as other order of battle studies.  Like Samuel W. Mitcham, Jr.'s _Hitler's Legions: The German Army Order of Battle, World War II_ (1985), there is no combat narrative. A brief overview for each unit's time in action, on the model of Shelby L. Stanton's _Order of Battle U.S. Army World War II_ (1984) would have been a nice touch. Again, Part 2 could have been a separate reference work. W.J.K. Davies' old standard _German Army Handbook 1939-1945_ ( 1973) is much more user-friendly, however.The third part of the book contains Appendices containing data, sometimes repeated, that could have been put to better use elsewhere. The full-length rebuttal to Trevor Dupuy's thesis by the historian Christopher A. Lawrence belongs in a scholarly journal, not here. The book is a nice package, printed on thick, high quality glossy paper. Many never before seen photos are sprinkled throughout, but as R.A. Forczyk (Amazon reviewer) has noted, the work contains neither an index, nor maps. Normandy 1944 should be a lesson to writers contemplating whether to write a polemic, or a reference work. When too many ingredients are thrown in the broth, an unsavory stew results. This is one book I would check out of the library before purchasing it.sions. Zetterling presents organization and movement information, but little else.The research extends down to battalion level in most cases, to the exclusion of details relating to higher headquarters such as Army and Corps. I was disappointed to find nothing more than mere mention of the German LXXXIV Armee Korps, a headquarters I am particularly interested in. Zetterling's data is extensive, but suffers the same maladies as other order of battle studies.  Like Samuel W. Mitcham, Jr.'s _Hitler's Legions: The German Army Order of Battle, World War II_ (1985), there is no combat narrative. A brief overview for each unit's time in action, on the model of Shelby L. Stanton's _Order of Battle U.S. Army World War II_ (1984) would have been a nice touch. Again, Part 2 could have been a separate reference work. W.J.K. Davies' old standard _German Army Handbook 1939-1945_ ( 1973) is much more user-friendly, however.The third part of the book contains Appendices containing data, sometimes repeated, that could have been put to better use elsewhere. The full-length rebuttal to Trevor Dupuy's thesis by the historian Christopher A. Lawrence belongs in a scholarly journal, not here. The book is a nice package, printed on thick, high quality glossy paper. Many never before seen photos are sprinkled throughout, but as R.A. Forczyk (Amazon reviewer) has noted, the work contains neither an index, nor maps. Normandy 1944 should be a lesson to writers contemplating whether to write a polemic, or a reference work. When too many ingredients are thrown in the broth, an unsavory stew results. This is one book I would check out of the library before purchasing it.	2004-09-06
US	52858201	R87WILZB716VY	1555715281	339593221	Coast Guard Action In Vietnam: Stories of Those Who Served	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A Whole New Take on the Vietnam War at Sea.	In peacetime, the invaluable service provided by our nation's fifth branch of the armed forces, the United States Coast Guard is certainly well known. Especially after 9/11, the Coast Guard shoulders the responsibility for protecting thousands of miles of coast line. Commercial and pleasure craft alike can count on the Coast Guard to respond to any distress in foul weather and in fair. It is befitting that President George W. Bush had recently bestowed such praise on the men and women that serve in the United States Coast Guard. In wartime, however, the accomplishments of the Coast Guard are often over-shadowed by the other branches of the service. Nowhere is this oversight more glaring than the Coast Guard's participation in America's involvement in Vietnam. In _Coast Guard Action in Vietnam: Stories of Those Who Served_, Paul C. Scotti provides a remedy for this omission with an engaging narrative of a little known chapter in the Vietnam conflict. Scotti blends organizational, operational and oral histories splendidly in a fast-paced account that never gets bogged down in jargon. The author thoroughly outlines the five-fold mission of the U.S. Coast Guard in Vietnam: interdicting enemy supply lines at sea; providing security at South Vietnam's harbors and sea ports; implementing and tending to buoys and other navigational aids; ensuring quality control over civilian merchant shipping; and of course, conducting search and rescue missions. Scotti devotes a chapter to each of the five tasks while delegating others to individual combat missions. Scotti clearly demonstrates that it was the Coast Guard that squelched the North Vietnamese efforts the supply the south by way of open sea. It was the Coast Guard that brought efficiency to South Vietnam's chaotic and primitive harbor facilities, allowing merchant vessels to contribute to the United States mammoth logistical apparatus. And it was the Coast Guard that performed numerous humanitarian missions as well. Scotti writes from experience, having himself served as a gunner on an 82-foot CG patrol boat in Vietnam. It is this craft, the workhorse of the Coast Guard fleet, and the men who served aboard them that provides the nucleus of the book. Scotti became USCG public affairs officer and his observational and organizational skills as a journalist are evident throughout. Nowhere, however, does he allow unit pride to obscure an honest attempt at objective history. The book is generously sprinkled with maps, graphs, and photographs, many from the author's own collection. Numerous appendices containing historical and statistical data, bibliography and notes complete the package. One small criticism, however, it is regrettable that Scotti's work did not receive a hard cover edition for which it is certainly deserving. Reading Scotti's book will leave one with a whole new take on the Vietnam war at sea, and a whole new appreciation for our U.S. Coast Guard veterans. This book comes highly recommended.ites from experience, having himself served as a gunner on an 82-foot CG patrol boat in Vietnam. It is this craft, the workhorse of the Coast Guard fleet, and the men who served aboard them that provides the nucleus of the book. Scotti became USCG public affairs officer and his observational and organizational skills as a journalist are evident throughout. Nowhere, however, does he allow unit pride to obscure an honest attempt at objective history. The book is generously sprinkled with maps, graphs, and photographs, many from the author's own collection. Numerous appendices containing historical and statistical data, bibliography and notes complete the package. One small criticism, however, it is regrettable that Scotti's work did not receive a hard cover edition for which it is certainly deserving. Reading Scotti's book will leave one with a whole new take on the Vietnam war at sea, and a whole new appreciation for our U.S. Coast Guard veterans. This book comes highly recommended.	2003-11-07
US	52858201	RUEB31HWMD8KV	0440236304	35995058	Currahee!: A Screaming Eagle at Normandy	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Setting the Precedent for All Combat Memoirs!	The successful book and mini-series _Band of Brothers_ prompted a re-read of Donald R. Burgett's timeless classic: Currahee: A Screaming Eagle in Normandy (the subtitle was added to the reprint editions). First published in 1967, Burgett was ahead of his time in paving the way for a no holes barred narrative and chilling memoir.  Some of the more recent World War II memoirs will attest that there are several pit-falls awaiting the well intentioned autobiographer. For example, a combat veteran's world was very small. He was rarely aware of events transpiring outside the realm of his squad or platoon. He oftentimes knew not where he was, nor was he aware of the grand strategy of which his unit was a small yet intricate part. All he knew was that he had to keep going on to victory, not so much for his country as a whole, but for his buddies who depended on him, as he relied on them for survival. Also, there is a tendency for the humorous memories to over-shadow the horrors of war in many recent accounts. The result is often a personal anecdotal approach. Although this style is significant to understanding the culture of the World War II veteran, it can also bore the reader quickly. Not so with Burgett's first effort. Burgett blends the anecdotal with the overall picture splendidly. He made a smart decision to have a military historian edit his manuscript and fill in the holes with facts Burgett could not possibly have known at the time. This collaboration is done with finesse, lending just enough factual military history to Burgett's personal experiences to make for a riveting read (This delicate ingredient will become more abundant in Burgett's subsequent installments). Burgett takes the reader from paratrooper training, overseas deployment, and eventual night drop into Normandy on the eve of the D-Day invasion. His attention to detail is remarkable. Every facet of training from the technical to the ironic is covered with crystal clear prose. If it were not for an injury suffered during Burgett's first qualifying jump, he would have crashed and burned with his original stick in an unfortunate training accident. Burgett's acclimation to combat appears to occur rapidly. He soon learns to think like an infantryman: is this ditch a safe place to spend the night, he wonders, or does the enemy have it zeroed-in? Burgett soon learned to trust no one outside his circle of squad buddies in the second squad, second platoon of A Company, 506th Parachute Infantry, 101st Airborne Division. He would make the grateful French citizens drink the wine and cider they happily offered their liberators first to insure it was not poisoned. Thinking three moves ahead in the game of survival became a way of life for Burgett. Burgett's re-telling of the sporadic fire fights among the hedgrows of Normandy are vital to a thorough understanding of the Airborne operations on D-Day. The reader may wonder whether the paratroopers preference for screaming frontal assaults directly into the mouths of German machine guns and deadly artillery is the result of elite combat training or youthful bravado (Burgett was only nineteen). Burgett makes no bones about his macabre desire to scalp the blond locks from a dead German soldier he felled with his M-1 Garrand. Only intense enemy machine gun fire prevented him from performing this gruesome deed. Burgett comments on the one topic no one likes to talk about: friendly fire. Burgett tells us that not only were his comrades killed by mishaps during Allied air and artillery support missions, but also short rounds fired from ships off-shore as well. Without a doubt, Burgett's tell-it-like-was memoir will become a timeless classic. All veterans contemplating preserving their experiences to paper should consult Burgett as a model.ury suffered during Burgett's first qualifying jump, he would have crashed and burned with his original stick in an unfortunate training accident. Burgett's acclimation to combat appears to occur rapidly. He soon learns to think like an infantryman: is this ditch a safe place to spend the night, he wonders, or does the enemy have it zeroed-in? Burgett soon learned to trust no one outside his circle of squad buddies in the second squad, second platoon of A Company, 506th Parachute Infantry, 101st Airborne Division. He would make the grateful French citizens drink the wine and cider they happily offered their liberators first to insure it was not poisoned. Thinking three moves ahead in the game of survival became a way of life for Burgett. Burgett's re-telling of the sporadic fire fights among the hedgrows of Normandy are vital to a thorough understanding of the Airborne operations on D-Day. The reader may wonder whether the paratroopers preference for screaming frontal assaults directly into the mouths of German machine guns and deadly artillery is the result of elite combat training or youthful bravado (Burgett was only nineteen). Burgett makes no bones about his macabre desire to scalp the blond locks from a dead German soldier he felled with his M-1 Garrand. Only intense enemy machine gun fire prevented him from performing this gruesome deed. Burgett comments on the one topic no one likes to talk about: friendly fire. Burgett tells us that not only were his comrades killed by mishaps during Allied air and artillery support missions, but also short rounds fired from ships off-shore as well. Without a doubt, Burgett's tell-it-like-was memoir will become a timeless classic. All veterans contemplating preserving their experiences to paper should consult Burgett as a model.	2003-07-08
US	52858201	R1WBFG2118FJGR	0847687198	93262577	Requiem for an Army	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The German Army that Did Not Fight	Dale R. Herspring argues that the civil-military relations in East Germany were unique to both other Warsaw Pact countries as well as western military establishments during the Cold War Era. Herspring concludes that because the National Peoples Army (NVA) of the German Democratic Republic (GDR) did not resist or, take up arms (neither during the former Soviet Union's policy of Perestroika, nor the events leading to the eventual reuniting of East & West Germany, and the fall of the Berlin Wall) its role was particularly significant in the reuniting process. The author further contends the NVA officer corps welcomed the transition to democracy, and that some, not all, survived the transition to serve in the West German militaryBundeswehr.   Herspring not only provides a concise history of the NVA, but also utilizes an analytical approach by posing a series of questions (which he subsequently answers) concerning the political structure in which the NVA functioned with particular emphasis on civil-military relations within a Communist political system. Herspring supports his theses around three factors: 1) The NVA's failure to thoroughly isolate its military from the civilian population. 2) Lack of cohesive political leadership and 3) Training focused primarily on external as opposed to internal threats. The author also utilizes oral history methods in the form of a circulated questionnaire distributed to NVA officers.   The author acknowledges and draws from the vast array of studies on the fall of Communism in general. Herspring pays particular attention to East German newspaper material. He makes use of memoirs of prominent players as well as studies of the integration of former East German officers into the Bundeswehr.    The book contains a hidden weaknessit is too concise. A study of this magnitude and significance needs to delve into more detail. For example: the section discussing Germany's dual \\"historical identity\\" (p. 25) and the new \\"East\\" Germany's attempts to portray itself positively in German history (particularly WWII.) encompasses only a page when whole books have been written on this topic (see, Jeffrey Herf. Divided Memory: The Nazi Past in the Two Germanys.1997.). Also, at times, Herspring seems to imply (no doubt, unintentionally) that the NVA existed within a vacuum immune to political polity. This is apparent when the author keeps harping on \\"why did the NVA not resist reunification?\\" Overall, The succinctness left me wanting more. If being too short poses a weakness, the structure of the book is an asset. The author formulates his argument well in the introduction and each chapter outlines and summarizes the analytical process well. Most importantly, however, the author saw a deliciously tempting opportunity to incorporate the \\"new\\" military history by delving into a unique case study of civil-military relations and accomplished this task marvelously.y's attempts to portray itself positively in German history (particularly WWII.) encompasses only a page when whole books have been written on this topic (see, Jeffrey Herf. Divided Memory: The Nazi Past in the Two Germanys.1997.). Also, at times, Herspring seems to imply (no doubt, unintentionally) that the NVA existed within a vacuum immune to political polity. This is apparent when the author keeps harping on \\"why did the NVA not resist reunification?\\" Overall, The succinctness left me wanting more. If being too short poses a weakness, the structure of the book is an asset. The author formulates his argument well in the introduction and each chapter outlines and summarizes the analytical process well. Most importantly, however, the author saw a deliciously tempting opportunity to incorporate the \\"new\\" military history by delving into a unique case study of civil-military relations and accomplished this task marvelously.	2003-07-06
US	52858201	R2NI6LWAOMLTDT	0316132446	356973667	Grant Moves South: 1861 - 1863	Books	5	19	20	N	N	The Making of a General	Although Bruce Catton was an accomplished historian in his own right, one cannot help but notice the influence of the great Sherman biographer Lloyd Lewis. Anyone who has read Lewis' _Sherman: Fighting Profit_ will recognize similarities; the heavy reliance on primary sources and the uncanny ability to allow the reader to draw his or her own conclusions without explicitly stating the writer's intentions. Catton imitates Lewis' sinuous narrative style that captivates and draws the reader deeper into the manuscript. Unfortunately, however, Lewis only lived to publish the first of a multi-volume biography Ulysses S. Grant titled Captain Sam Grant . Lewis' widow commissioned Catton to finish the project utilizing much of the notes Lewis had gathered in the course of his research. The results are the two subsequent biographies authored by Catton: Grant Moves South and Grant Takes Command Catton begins his duel biography in June 1861 when Grant, appointed Colonel, takes command of the 21st Illinois Volunteer Infantry. Catton portrays Grant as a man of few words, yet possessing an ability to quickly earn the respect of his men. Grant stresses discipline and training particularly of his company grade officers. About half of the book is devoted to Grants participation at the battles of Belmont, Fort Henry, Fort Donelson and the near disaster at Shiloh. The remainder of the text focuses on the Vicksburg Campaign. Catton prefers a loosely structured chronological approach and provides his readers with a commanding view from headquarters. Catton relies upon letters, cables, and other communiques between officers, which tends to keep the focus on Grant and other high level players. Besides handwritten orders and other official documentation, Catton allows Grant to speak for himself through the only vestige we have: his memoirs. In contrast, Catton listens to what other observers have to say about Grant in their memoirs, particularly William T. Sherman and the unpublished memoir of Grant's wife, Julia Dent Grant. Juxtaposing this top-down approach is Catton's ability to portray the human frailties of Grant's personality. Grant's drinking is a recurring theme in which Catton bestows an admirable defense. Catton devotes considerable space to the Grant's uneasy relationship with General Henry Wager Halleck. To Halleck's charge that Grant disobeyed orders and failed to communicate his intentions at Fort Donelson, Catton counters by stating the Union communication system, as a whole was substandard. He suggests Confederate sympathizers manned telegraph offices squelching vital communiques.   Catton credits Halleck for saving Grant's command during the controversial political maneuvering of General John A. McClernand. Overall, Catton concludes that Grant certainly had his hands full during his early campaigns. On the one hand, Grant had the Vicksburg Campaign to plan and orchestrate; On the other hand, Grant was the target of dubious machinations from jealous staff officers and politicians in Washington bent of relinquishing his command. What is more, Grant was faced with economic issues and the problem of what to do with displaced contraband slaves that were pouring into his army camps on a daily basis. Referring to the former slaves as \\"Darkeys.\\" Grant immediately put the Negro refugees to work maintaining roads, bridges and other military necessities that required manual labor.Catton again comes to the defense of Grant in his handling of these sensitive civil-military relations. In a controversial order, Grant categorized northern businessmen attempting to exploit profits from the sale of cotton as \\"Jews.\\"  Though these complex themes surrounding Ulysses S. Grant, are significant, they tend to diminish the genius for war Grant displayed during the Vicksburg Campaign. Taking into account that this is a biography of Grant and not a comprehensive treatment of the campaign that sealed his place in history, Catton could have evened out the balancerather than treating the campaign as a mere backdrop. Catton's eloquent literary style and his excellent syntheses of primary sources, make this a must have for any Grant afficionado.rather than treating the campaign as a mere backdrop. Catton's eloquent literary style and his excellent syntheses of primary sources, make this a must have for any Grant afficionado.	2003-07-06
US	52858201	R3UGXFKOXRMOR8	0891417605	839725158	Terrible Terry Allen: Combat General of World War II - The Life of an American Soldier	Books	4	25	25	N	N	Trickle-down Effect	Biographies of such prominent World War II generals as Dwight D. Eisenhower and George S. Patton Jr. continue to surface regularly. Rarely do corps and division commanders who wore two stars on their collars receive the honor of the historian's pen. Gerald Astor may perhaps be paving the way for a trickle-down effect with his most recent effort. Astor's subject is not an obscure name in the annals of World War II combat. Major General Terry de la Mesa Allen is perhaps best remembered for commanding the infamous 1st Infantry Division-The Big Red One-during the North African and Sicilian Campaigns. He, along with his deputy commander Brig. Gen Theodore Roosevelt Jr. were perhaps responsible for the belief among its troops that the U.S. Army was made up of the 1st Division and a few million replacements. Just as the Big Red One was at its zenith in Sicily, both commanders were relieved and reassigned; Roosevelt would land on D-Day with his 4th Division, Allen would command the 104th Division during the drive into Germany. This controversial decision between Patton and then II Corps commander Omar Bradley to relieve Allen could become the subject of a book in itself. But Astor gives his readers much more. Allen was an Army brat. His father graduated from West Point and led a relatively uneventful Army career and never saw combat. Allen would flunk out of West Point and gain his commission in the reserves. Allen's son, Terry Jr. would also attend the Academy and die serving in his father's old division in Vietnam. This legacy of professional military officership is a promising theme that does not quite come to full fruition in Astor's' book. It appears Astor could have done more with this concept than a few pages he devoted to the first and third generations of Allens. The chapter on the incorrigible Terry Allen at West Point, however, may rank Allen alongside the likes of George A. Custer and George Pickett as a triumvirate of cadet flunkies. Like Custer, Allen made up for his academic and disciplinary deficiencies on the battle field. Astor, who has established a reputation for his oral histories, writes well and illustrates the personality of his subject with flowing prose. Astor is sympathetic, like Bruce Catton was to Ulysses S. Grant, to the fact that Allen may have had a drinking problem. Astor hammers home one significant contention, however: Allen cared for his men and agonised (and knelt down and prayed) when they became casualties. As I read, I kept thinking how could this poignant testament to a hard-fighting, chain-smoking, maverick general have been better. First, Astor does not cite his sources in notes. This is indeed unfortunate for it not only lessens his credibility as a bonafide historian, but also makes for awkward prose when certain significant works have to be introduced within paragraphs. It is obvious Astor has done his homework and trekked to all the relevant archival repositories. It is sad his diligent research is not documented, thus rendering his efforts a grave disservice. At times, Astor succumbs to the temptation to quote long passages from other authors or letters without off-setting the type. For example, Astor quotes Carlo D'Este at length and at one point I thought Astor's work could have been on the same level as D'Este's _Patton_. Like D'Este, Astor sometimes resorts to Bradley bashing with regard to Allen's relief, but tackles the topic thoroughly and even-handedly. Stylistically, what could have been a great biography is instead a very good one. For those who care little for the intricacies of style, Astor tells a compelling story about a remarkable general and man. In short, this book is a good read. Hopefully other authors will follow Astor's lead and more division and corps commanders of World War II will get their just deserve.for his academic and disciplinary deficiencies on the battle field. Astor, who has established a reputation for his oral histories, writes well and illustrates the personality of his subject with flowing prose. Astor is sympathetic, like Bruce Catton was to Ulysses S. Grant, to the fact that Allen may have had a drinking problem. Astor hammers home one significant contention, however: Allen cared for his men and agonised (and knelt down and prayed) when they became casualties. As I read, I kept thinking how could this poignant testament to a hard-fighting, chain-smoking, maverick general have been better. First, Astor does not cite his sources in notes. This is indeed unfortunate for it not only lessens his credibility as a bonafide historian, but also makes for awkward prose when certain significant works have to be introduced within paragraphs. It is obvious Astor has done his homework and trekked to all the relevant archival repositories. It is sad his diligent research is not documented, thus rendering his efforts a grave disservice. At times, Astor succumbs to the temptation to quote long passages from other authors or letters without off-setting the type. For example, Astor quotes Carlo D'Este at length and at one point I thought Astor's work could have been on the same level as D'Este's _Patton_. Like D'Este, Astor sometimes resorts to Bradley bashing with regard to Allen's relief, but tackles the topic thoroughly and even-handedly. Stylistically, what could have been a great biography is instead a very good one. For those who care little for the intricacies of style, Astor tells a compelling story about a remarkable general and man. In short, this book is a good read. Hopefully other authors will follow Astor's lead and more division and corps commanders of World War II will get their just deserve.	2003-05-22
US	52858201	R10U0QKK592UMK	0195097327	874277048	Franklin D. Roosevelt and American Foreign Policy, 1932-1945: With a New Afterword (Oxford Paperbacks)	Books	5	30	38	N	N	Leadership Style of the 20th Century's Greatest President	In one volume, Robert Dallek has attempted to counter the vast amount of printed material covering Franklin D. Roosevelt's domestic policies during the 1930's and 1940's. The result is a mammoth effort that sheds light on the enormous pressures Roosevelt faced both at home and abroad during the turbulent decades when the world struggled to emerge from the shambles of a Great Depression, and prepare itself for a global conflict. Dallek argues that most historians do not fully understand the nature of Roosevelt's foreign policy. Dallek also claims that researchers tend to focus on FDR's shortcomings without emphasizing the constraints with which he was forced to work. Dallek's main purpose is to  highlight the continual dilemmas Roosevelt faced in an effort to always strive for balance and compromise between public opinion and foreign affairs. FDR realized the need to break the country away from isolationism and place it in the global arena, both economically and politically, while at the same time facing the growing threat from the Axis powers. Though Dallek is noted as a gifted narrator, it is Roosevelt's leadership style,criticized as somewhat unorthodox,and the many quandaries in which he prevailed that provides the strength of Dallek's book.  Dallek chose a ridged chronological format, which he maintained throughout the book. The chronological methodology in essential to enable the reader to understand the patterns that emerged within Roosevelt's style of leadership. For instance, rather than try to sway public opinion as to why the United States should supply aid to its allies or begin preparing for war, Roosevelt instead would allow the events then taking shape in Europe and Asia to speak for themselves to convince the American public. FDR's early foreign policy (1932-1935) was primarily centered on economic recovery. Roosevelt clearly understood that the Great Depression was a global problem. Roosevelt strove to reduce tariffs, improve trade and stabilize the dollar with foreign currencies. He has been widely criticized for going off the gold standard and blamed for the failure of the London Economic Conference. Dallek states, however, that Roosevelt clearly achieved two very important underlying objectives: First, domestic economic recovery must take priority over foreign affairs This belief was evident in the many Hundred Days policies that FDR implemented. Second, Dallek argues that Roosevelt's main goal was at best to \\"restore a measure of faith in international cooperation.\\"  Roosevelt was always aware of his limitations. Dallek believes that the years 1935-1939 was the most important period in Roosevelt's foreign policy. During this time, Roosevelt faced many obstacles.  Dubbed an \\"Idealist\\" for his efforts towards disarmament and United States participation in the World Court, FDR was also criticized as being naïve in his reactions to the aggressive actions of Fascist Italy and Nazi Germany. Dallek diligently describes how FDR's hands were tied by the very nature of the Neutrality Acts, pressure from Isolationists, student peace activists, and religious groups, particularly Catholics at home.  The events of World War II exposed yet more criticisms upon Roosevelt's handling of foreign affairs.  In a new Afterword (1995), Dallek explains some of the legitimate critiques as well as some of the ludicrous claims concerning FDR's handling of the war. Dallek disregards the revisionist view that Roosevelt knew of, or allowed the Japanese to attack Pearl Harbor as an excuse to draw the United States into the war.  Some revisionists even propose the existence of a British conspiracy to lure the United States into the war. Dallek points out there are even those that claim British pilots flying planes with Japanese markings took part in the attack on Pearl Harbor. Dallek praises Roosevelt as a visionary, accurately predicting a world view he never lived to see. Dallek disagrees with the \\"naïvet&eacute;\\" Roosevelt exhibitedat Yalta, claiming FDR did not sell out Eastern Europe to Stalin. Dallek dismisses this as a myth, claiming Roosevelt clearly understood the price for 20 million Russian killed during World War II would be Eastern Europe.  Dallek also defends Roosevelt's decision to back the doomed Chiang Kai-shek regime in China. Dallek believes FDR knew that someday China would be a dominant world power and although he felt that democracy in both China and the Soviet Union were unlikely, he hoped for eventual global cooperation between the superpowers. Dallek harshest criticism of Roosevelt's tenure is the interment of Japanese-Americans. This book offers the reader valuable insight into the complex problems facing Roosevelt's decision-making processes on the eve of World War II. For this reason, Dallek's work holds a valued place in political and historical literature.alta, claiming FDR did not sell out Eastern Europe to Stalin. Dallek dismisses this as a myth, claiming Roosevelt clearly understood the price for 20 million Russian killed during World War II would be Eastern Europe.  Dallek also defends Roosevelt's decision to back the doomed Chiang Kai-shek regime in China. Dallek believes FDR knew that someday China would be a dominant world power and although he felt that democracy in both China and the Soviet Union were unlikely, he hoped for eventual global cooperation between the superpowers. Dallek harshest criticism of Roosevelt's tenure is the interment of Japanese-Americans. This book offers the reader valuable insight into the complex problems facing Roosevelt's decision-making processes on the eve of World War II. For this reason, Dallek's work holds a valued place in political and historical literature.	2003-03-12
US	52858201	RRYR1CBMYXQ6C	0700608990	535506720	When Titans Clashed: How the Red Army Stopped Hitler (Modern War Studies)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Post Glasnost Study of the Russian Front	David M. Glantz and Jonathan House argue that the Red Army defeated the forces of Nazi Germany because of the superior combat effectiveness of its forces. By adapting strategy and tactics and reforming existing command structures best suited to the nature of the war on the Eastern fronts, the Red Army instituted counter-measures that resulted in victory against the Germans. The authors refute some common theories concerning the Red Army's victory as well as Germany's defeat. The authors claim the vastness of the Russian frontier and the extreme weather conditions (a factor usually attributed to the German defeat) were equally detrimental to the Russian forces. The authors counter the theory that sheer numerical advantage the Russians enjoyed over the Germans attributed to their victory by claiming that by 1944, the Red Army too was suffering from acute manpower shortages.   The authors base their research on newly available Russian sources opened to the west in 1989.  The authors conclude from these sources that the Soviet Union always held a military advantage over their western neighbors. The authors claim that during the inter-war years, the Soviet Union's doctrine consisted of an offensive strategy based on a concept known as \\"Deep Battle,\\"  This strategy was devised by the Russian strategists M.N. Tukhachevsky and V.K. Triandafillov. Glantz and House assert that the reason Germany enjoyed initial success in the summer of 1941, was because the Red Army was going through a transition period as a direct result of Stalin's purges of the Red officer corps in the 1930's. Contrary to previous accounts, the authors claim that the Soviets were prepared for a German invasion, yet tried to prolong a confrontation until this transition period was complete.   The authors claim to be the forerunners in taping the newly opened Russian archives (Before 1989, John Erickson always claimed to have inside access to Russian sources). They admit, however, that a vast amount of Russian material, \\"voluminous but fragmented in nature\\" still remains closed to western historians and that their research represents only the tip of the iceberg. Most of this primary material is military in nature such as: general staff reports and journals and directorates published by various members of the Russian high command structure. The authors also draw from German archival sources as well as a host of secondary literature.   In contrast to Overy, no oral histories or personal interviews were used in the research. This omission eliminates the human face to the struggle. While playing-up the advantages of the Russian archival material, the authors tend to down-play German sources a bit too much. For example, the authors overemphasize the blame it all on Hitler bias of such classic German memoirist and tacticians as Field Marshal Erich von Manstein (Lost Victories) and Major General F.W. von Mellenthin (Panzer Battles). Given the scope of the opposing political ideologies, the emphasis on military operations, to a certain extent, seem to dwarf the role of politics as if the military forces were operating in a vacuum, divorced from politics.   The then newly opened Russian archives does lend the book an important significance, however. The emphasis placed on the analysis of the evidence and the description of the archival material is a big help to the serious student of the conflict. Though the narrative is dry in places, the layout of the book with \\"conclusion\\" paragraphs at the end of each section makes the book and the argument easy to follow. The ample supply of maps, though dark in places is a plus. Arguably_When Titans Clashed_ may supersede John Erickson's two-volume standard for scholarly precision. Clark's _Operation Barbarosa_, Werth's _Russia at War_ and Overy's _Russia's War_, however, offer a far better read.ussian material, \\"voluminous but fragmented in nature\\" still remains closed to western historians and that their research represents only the tip of the iceberg. Most of this primary material is military in nature such as: general staff reports and journals and directorates published by various members of the Russian high command structure. The authors also draw from German archival sources as well as a host of secondary literature.   In contrast to Overy, no oral histories or personal interviews were used in the research. This omission eliminates the human face to the struggle. While playing-up the advantages of the Russian archival material, the authors tend to down-play German sources a bit too much. For example, the authors overemphasize the blame it all on Hitler bias of such classic German memoirist and tacticians as Field Marshal Erich von Manstein (Lost Victories) and Major General F.W. von Mellenthin (Panzer Battles). Given the scope of the opposing political ideologies, the emphasis on military operations, to a certain extent, seem to dwarf the role of politics as if the military forces were operating in a vacuum, divorced from politics.   The then newly opened Russian archives does lend the book an important significance, however. The emphasis placed on the analysis of the evidence and the description of the archival material is a big help to the serious student of the conflict. Though the narrative is dry in places, the layout of the book with \\"conclusion\\" paragraphs at the end of each section makes the book and the argument easy to follow. The ample supply of maps, though dark in places is a plus. Arguably_When Titans Clashed_ may supersede John Erickson's two-volume standard for scholarly precision. Clark's _Operation Barbarosa_, Werth's _Russia at War_ and Overy's _Russia's War_, however, offer a far better read.	2003-03-12
US	52858201	R8FGXGN3BW8L1	0415266718	737092943	The Franco-Prussian War: The German Invasion of France 1870–1871	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Good Old-Style Military History	Michael Howard utilizes the Franco-Prussian War as a case study to illustrate Germany's military dilemma of the mid-19th to mid-20th Centuries. On the one hand, Prussia employed every means at its disposal--military/industrial technology, professional military training and education, and rapid mobilization and deployment-- to set the president and become Europe's greatest military power. On the other hand, the recently united Germany's victory over France would create a fervor of nationalism and militarism that would transcend two world wars in the 20th Century in what Howard refers to as \\"a disaster: for herself and for the entire world\\" (p. 456). Howard incorporates the classic old style military history approach. The author describes the political atmosphere, causes, troop movements, weapons, strategy & tactics, battles and leaders that are common fare for this genre. To a lesser degree, Howard describes the affect the war had on society especially the Paris Commune that rose after the fighting subsided and the \\"precarious\\" peace that followed (p. 455). Throughout, Howard stresses the technological aspects of the conflict, especially the role of railroads. Even Howard admits the vast array of archival material that emerged from this war is too much for any one historian to master. He carefully selects and synthesizes primary sources from both sides of the conflict yet tends to lean more towards German language sources. Among these, Howard also consults diaries and memoirs from the major actors such as Bismarck and Moltke. Howard also credits the work of Emil Daniels who published a definitive one-volume history of the Franco-Prussian War in 1929. The social aspect of Howard's thesis pales in comparison with the military historical narrative. Much of Howard's contentions are found between the lines; a technique favored by some and shunned by other historians. Also, any treatment of vast units and their commanders describing intricate troop movements and tactics should include an order of battle in an appendix. The absence of an order of battle is a major weakness of this book. Finally, what maps are provided, are just those: maps. They show no movement of troops, offensive or defensive positions or tactics utilized, another major flaw. Howard utilizes the top-down approach to military history to great affect. The strength lies in the compare and contrasting of preliminary preparations of both countries and the political/military leadership that implemented policy. Although Howard makes the French deficiencies obvious and outlines the command faults on both sides, he does it with a sympathetic approach for the realities of the nature of war. This objective style is a major strength of the book. For the Franco-Prussian War, Michael Howard's book remains the top-dog!ould include an order of battle in an appendix. The absence of an order of battle is a major weakness of this book. Finally, what maps are provided, are just those: maps. They show no movement of troops, offensive or defensive positions or tactics utilized, another major flaw. Howard utilizes the top-down approach to military history to great affect. The strength lies in the compare and contrasting of preliminary preparations of both countries and the political/military leadership that implemented policy. Although Howard makes the French deficiencies obvious and outlines the command faults on both sides, he does it with a sympathetic approach for the realities of the nature of war. This objective style is a major strength of the book. For the Franco-Prussian War, Michael Howard's book remains the top-dog!	2003-02-27
US	52858201	R2EDZHRJTNXSDR	069100806X	854429271	Clausewitz and the State	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	From Idealist to Realist	Paret argues that the great Prussian military theorist Karl von Clausewitz was a realist with a life-long affinity to serve the nation-state and pursued a desire to understand this intricate and diverse concept. Clausewitz progressed from an idealized vision of statehood as a young man to a realist outlook in later life. This realism, argues Paret, is evident in Clausewitz's political writings as well as his mot famous treatise _On War_the ultimate extension of policy by concerted use of force. Yet it is the \\"Psychological and historical genesis\\" (p. 10) of Clausewitz's theories that Paret ultimately wants to convey. Paret concludes: \\"Clausewitz combined two very different callings-service to the state and scholarship-with remarkable success\\" (p. 436). Paret utilizes a contextual approach. Paret contends that in order to better understand Clausewitz's theories, the reader must first identify with the time frame that Clausewitz lived. Paret divides the book between biography and analysis of some prominent historical and political writings. Paret utilizes biography to illustrate Clausewitz's transformation from idealist to realist. Paret's analysis of Clausewitz's writings serves to show the differentiation between Clausewitz the political commentator and Clausewitz the military theorist. The printed materials available on Clausewitz are extensive though Paret leans more towards primary sources in this study. Besides the vast array of Clausewitz's own writings, Paret also makes extensive use of letters. Correspondence between Clausewitz and his fianc&eacute;e/wife Marie v. Br&uuml;hl and August von Gneisanau, collected in a plethora of German language sources are the most frequently cited. Paret makes it known, however, that new primary evidence dealing with Clausewitz is still surfacing though \\"widely dispersed.\\" Source books and collections by Werner Hahlweg, Hans Rothfels and Walther Shering are also critically cited. It is obvious that Paret is enamored with Clausewitz and gives more than a sympathetic portrayal of his subject. Paret only passes lightly over criticisms of Clausewitz mainly the writings of W. Hahlweg and H. Rothfels and completely ignores the works of John Keegan and B.H. Liddle-Hart. Although the vast arrays of German language sources are impressive, they seem overdone for a book aimed at English speaking readers. As Paret mentions, this book provides an excellent companion volume to the M. Howard, P. Paret translation of _On War_ (Princeton: 1976) that is becoming a much-standardized text. Paret has succeeded in helping the reader to better understand Clausewitz by placing him in a contextual setting, especially his early experiences, influences, and education. Without a doubt, Clausewitz lived through some turbulent political changes in Europe between 1815-1831 and Paret illustrates this successfully. A major consensus seems to be that one can only understand Clausewitz by reading him. Paret certainly has created a thirst to do so in this book.ves more than a sympathetic portrayal of his subject. Paret only passes lightly over criticisms of Clausewitz mainly the writings of W. Hahlweg and H. Rothfels and completely ignores the works of John Keegan and B.H. Liddle-Hart. Although the vast arrays of German language sources are impressive, they seem overdone for a book aimed at English speaking readers. As Paret mentions, this book provides an excellent companion volume to the M. Howard, P. Paret translation of _On War_ (Princeton: 1976) that is becoming a much-standardized text. Paret has succeeded in helping the reader to better understand Clausewitz by placing him in a contextual setting, especially his early experiences, influences, and education. Without a doubt, Clausewitz lived through some turbulent political changes in Europe between 1815-1831 and Paret illustrates this successfully. A major consensus seems to be that one can only understand Clausewitz by reading him. Paret certainly has created a thirst to do so in this book.	2003-02-27
US	52858201	R3PWC6R6NEJKLF	0340573481	796438741	The First World War: Germany and Austria-Hungary 1914-1918 (Modern Wars)	Books	5	23	25	N	Y	Shakey Alliance	The focus of Holger Herwig's book is from the perspective of Germany and its principle ally, Austria-Hungary. Herwig implicitly argues Germany/Austria-Hungary lost the war because of incompetent generalship, and mismanagement of inadequate resources needed to wage war on a massive scale. Specifically, Herwig blames the failure on the Dual-Monarchy, its unwillingness to subordinate and cooperate in conjunction with its more powerful ally, Germany. Herwig downplays the myth of German military might and attempts to demonstrate that not even Germany, who had showed such greatness as a military power in the latter half of the 19th Century was ready for 20th Century style warfare. Herwig utilizes a chronological method and highly readable narrative style throughout. Generally, Herwig incorporates the standard top-down military/ diplomatic history approach describing causes of the war, mobilization, battles and leaders, major campaigns and results of the war. To a lesser degree, Herwig takes a look at the affects of war on society with such themes as hunger, disease, labor on the home front and gender issues. Overall, Herwig builds his argument by consulting archival sources previously waved over by the \\"Anglo-centric preoccupations of English language historians\\" (Strachan, quoted in Herwig, p. xiii). The author admits that a substantial amount of evidence dealing with the Great War was destroyed during bombing raids in WWII. He points out, however, that the reunification of Germany in 1989 has made available documents never before considered by western historians. Herwig relys heavily upon official histories of the war, mainly, Reichsarchiv's Der Weltkrieg 1914-1918, state papers focusing on other German states besides Prussia, and the official history of the Austrian-Hungarian Army. This source material is gleaned from many world famous archival institutions such as: Bundesarchiv (Koblenz), Bundesarchiv-Milit&auml;rarchiv (Freiburg), and Vienna's Haus-, Hof- und Staataarchiv, Politisches Archiv and &Ouml;sterreichisches Staatsarchiv. The author also utilizes diaries and memoirs; dissertations and scholarly articles; and secondary sources assembled in perhaps one of the most impressive bibliographies in recent military literature. Although highly readable, the author tends to be too general at times. For example, the Germans advanced through Belgium in a few sentences without any mention of the Belgium resistance or the Germany atrocities committed there in reprisal. One may notice that not once did he mention the scholarship of the historian Barbara Tuchman. In describing campaigns and battles, In contrast to John Keegan's _First World War_, Herwig focuses too much on the top echelons and rarely gets below corps level when recounting troop movements and engagements. Intermittently, Herwig fails to cite sources, particularly when quoting statistics, casualty figures, and troop strength (there are examples where he does quote statistical evidence though). Unlike Martin Gilbert's _First World War_ Herwig succeeds in illustrating the role of Austria-Hungary to great affect. The social/economic aspects of the war are handled adequately without diminishing the 'old style' military history narrative. The book's readability is one of its greatest strengths. Even a one-volume history of The First World War can be daunting, however Herwig captures and holds the reader's attention. On the whole, this work is a valuable addition to WWI literature., Politisches Archiv and sterreichisches Staatsarchiv. The author also utilizes diaries and memoirs; dissertations and scholarly articles; and secondary sources assembled in perhaps one of the most impressive bibliographies in recent military literature. Although highly readable, the author tends to be too general at times. For example, the Germans advanced through Belgium in a few sentences without any mention of the Belgium resistance or the Germany atrocities committed there in reprisal. One may notice that not once did he mention the scholarship of the historian Barbara Tuchman. In describing campaigns and battles, In contrast to John Keegan's _First World War_, Herwig focuses too much on the top echelons and rarely gets below corps level when recounting troop movements and engagements. Intermittently, Herwig fails to cite sources, particularly when quoting statistics, casualty figures, and troop strength (there are examples where he does quote statistical evidence though). Unlike Martin Gilbert's _First World War_ Herwig succeeds in illustrating the role of Austria-Hungary to great affect. The social/economic aspects of the war are handled adequately without diminishing the 'old style' military history narrative. The book's readability is one of its greatest strengths. Even a one-volume history of The First World War can be daunting, however Herwig captures and holds the reader's attention. On the whole, this work is a valuable addition to WWI literature.	2003-02-27
US	52858201	R1FV6N56TTI99F	0521479584	774582305	The Military Revolution: Military Innovation and the Rise of the West, 1500-1800	Books	4	27	30	N	N	A Cause and Effect Look at Early Modern European Art of War	Geoffrey Parker argues that during the 16th Century a \\"military revolution\\" occurred that profoundly changed the way Europeans conducted warfare. This revolution involved four distinct changes in the art of war: a change in tactics; a marked growth in the size of armies; more ambitious and complex military/political strategies; and an acute impact on society as a whole. Parker further contends that the initial imperial gains and conquests by European nations (before the full impact of the Industrial Revolution was felt) would not have been possible had it not been for these revolutionary changes. Not all historians of early modern European military history agree with Parker's argument. In the Second Edition, Parker answers his critics in an updated addendum (for those who enjoy conversational footnotes, Parker does seem to have a particular axe to grind with the historian John A. Lynn and vice-versa)..Parker incorporates a thread of cause and effect to illustrate his claims. For example: the technological advancements in firepower in the form of larger canons, prompted the wide spread development of the bastion fortifications system known as trace italienne. These improved fortifications required larger garrisons as well as larger siege armies of the opposing enemy. Infantry became the core of these new and expanded armies of Europe. Larger armies created the need for revised tactics as well as improved logistical, supply, medical, and financial solutions. All of these factors had a direct upon the societies that depended upon these armies for protection. Parker applies similar cause and effect methodology in a discussion of sea power. Though Parker is a known scholar of early modern Europe, he turns his analysis into a global study by comparing and contrasting the European art of war with various non-western armies and empires. Parker discusses the reactions, adaptations, successes or failures of Near Eastern (Muslim, Ottoman, Indian, and African) and Far Eastern (China, Japan, Southeast Asia) armies in their contacts with the west.Parker consults a vast array of archival material. From Machiavelli to an assortment of 16th Century French, Spanish, Dutch, German and British documents in varying native languages, Parkers research is truly impressive.  Absent, however, are non-western sources turning this \\"global\\" analysis into one from a western perspective. European colonial contacts with the east are seen only through western eyes in Parker's study. Sprinkled throughout the book are period etchings and engravings that Parker utilizes to support his premises. As an art history lover, however, I would have liked to have seen a description of the art work itself in the caption.Parker writes well. The author blends a well developed scholarly argument with historical narrative with great effect. For the most part, Parker maintained a set  literary style throughout that held the reader's interest. One flaw, however, is the author's tendency to make a point early in a paragraph, then support his claim with a \\"list\\" of obscure little known European battles. One would have to be well versed in European military history to be on the same page with Parker on these rare instances. A solution would be to \\"list\\" fewer examples and explain \\"why\\" this particular battle supports the point he is illustrating.This is a must read for the serious student of military history though not for the faint of heart.China, Japan, Southeast Asia) armies in their contacts with the west.Parker consults a vast array of archival material. From Machiavelli to an assortment of 16th Century French, Spanish, Dutch, German and British documents in varying native languages, Parkers research is truly impressive.   Absent, however, are non-western sources turning this \\"global\\" analysis into one from a western perspective. European colonial contacts with the east are seen only through western eyes in Parker's study. Sprinkled throughout the book are period etchings and engravings that Parker utilizes to support his premises. As an art history lover, however, I would have liked to have seen a description of the art work itself in the caption.Parker writes well. The author blends a well developed scholarly argument with historical narrative with great effect. For the most part, Parker maintained a set  literary style throughout that held the reader's interest. One flaw, however, is the author's tendency to make a point early in a paragraph, then support his claim with a \\"list\\" of obscure little known European battles. One would have to be well versed in European military history to be on the same page with Parker on these rare instances. A solution would be to \\"list\\" fewer examples and explain \\"why\\" this particular battle supports the point he is illustrating.This is a must read for the serious student of military history though not for the faint of heart.	2003-02-09
US	52858201	R1Z6RQN9K2QG2C	0700611150	240209563	The AEF and Coalition Warmaking,1917-1918 (Modern War Studies)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A Damning Indictment of Gen.John J. Pershing and the AEF.	In the opening paragraph of his book, David F. Trask expresses noble intentions with Clauswitzian flair. \\"This study writes Trask, \\"reflects modern revisionists examinations of minor tactics, but the emphasis throughout is on grand tactics, a much neglected topic\\" (p.x). What this amounts to is twofold. First, Trask offers a re-evaluation of the political, diplomatic, and military conduct of the Allied coalition (France, Britain, and the United States) against Germany during the last months of World War I. Secondly, Trask delivers a damning indictment against General John J. Pershing and the American Expeditionary Forces (AEF).This book argues against anything positive that was ever written about Pershing and the AEF. Trask contends that most that has been penned about the AEF is written from Pershing's perspective and undermines the importance of French Marshal Ferdinand Foch and the Allied coalition. Trasks fires his broadsides around the central thesis that it was American manpower and materiel that tipped the balance in favor of the Allies, not the combat effectiveness of the AEF.Pershing has been praised for standing firm and not allowing American troops to be used as canon fodder for British and French divisions. Trask, on the other hand, is in favor of the amalgamation of U.S. troops into allied divisions and calls Pershing stubborn for not allowing it from the beginning. The author emphasizes how the German offensive of March 1918 set off such a crisis within the allied high command, that it was only then did Pershing grudgingly permited American troops to fight in British and French formations. Trask says those amalgamated units performed better under allied leadership than did the American First Army in the closing weeks of the war.Pershing has been credited with the reduction of the St Mihiel salient, a prolonged German bulge in the allied lines. Trask states that Pershing was going against his superior's, Foch's wishes by insisting against reducing the St Mihiel salient. Rehashing old assessments of the battle, Trask reiterates earlier criticisms levelled at Pershing for committing battle-tested units to reduce the salient thus leaving only inexperienced troops to be committed to the subsequent Meuse-Argonne campaign. Questioning Pershing's handling of that campaign, Trask reemphasizes that American infantry and artillery were poorly coordinated in the Meuse-Argonne and inexperienced commanders ordered futile frontal attacks against well entrenhed maching gun positions. \\"Pershing's stubbern self righteousness,\\" writes Trask, \\" his unwillingness to correct initial misconceptions, such as those that marred the doctrine and training of the AEF, and his stormy relationships with Alled military and civilian leaders hurt the AEF\\" (p.176). In contrast, Trask underscores the military effectivness of the allied forces, particularly the British in Breaking the Hindenburg Line. In fact, Trask says Pershing was saved by the bell in November 1918. Contridicting his earlier statment that the AEF needed at least two years from it inception in 1917 to become an effective military force, Trask writes: \\"Pershing was surly a flawed commander. If the war had continued into 1919, he might well have fallen from grace\\" (p. 175).David Trask is a reputable scholar of the period. His work is supported by fourty pages of copious notes plus a bibliography. The book is sprikled with numerous maps, though some are dificult to read. Because of the polemics of this work, I would not recommend one read this book as an initiation into the political/military strategy of the Great War. Nor would it be advisable to consult Trask for an objective view of Pershing. As with other scholarly works that attempt to drive home a point, the repetitive nature of the authors emphasis turns into bashing, thus my rating of four stars.t Mihiel salient. Rehashing old assessments of the battle, Trask reiterates earlier criticisms levelled at Pershing for committing battle-tested units to reduce the salient thus leaving only inexperienced troops to be committed to the subsequent Meuse-Argonne campaign. Questioning Pershing's handling of that campaign, Trask reemphasizes that American infantry and artillery were poorly coordinated in the Meuse-Argonne and inexperienced commanders ordered futile frontal attacks against well entrenhed maching gun positions. \\"Pershing's stubbern self righteousness,\\" writes Trask, \\" his unwillingness to correct initial misconceptions, such as those that marred the doctrine and training of the AEF, and his stormy relationships with Alled military and civilian leaders hurt the AEF\\" (p.176). In contrast, Trask underscores the military effectivness of the allied forces, particularly the British in Breaking the Hindenburg Line. In fact, Trask says Pershing was saved by the bell in November 1918. Contridicting his earlier statment that the AEF needed at least two years from it inception in 1917 to become an effective military force, Trask writes: \\"Pershing was surly a flawed commander. If the war had continued into 1919, he might well have fallen from grace\\" (p. 175).David Trask is a reputable scholar of the period. His work is supported by fourty pages of copious notes plus a bibliography. The book is sprikled with numerous maps, though some are dificult to read. Because of the polemics of this work, I would not recommend one read this book as an initiation into the political/military strategy of the Great War. Nor would it be advisable to consult Trask for an objective view of Pershing. As with other scholarly works that attempt to drive home a point, the repetitive nature of the authors emphasis turns into bashing, thus my rating of four stars.	2003-02-09
US	52858201	R1KVP08UZJAOQ4	0813109558	623960605	The War to End All Wars: The American Military Experience in World War I	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Scholarly and Brilliantly Written Tour de Force!	In recent decades, social historians have strayed from the study of key historical figures and prominent events and instead focused their efforts on the common folk. Incorporating the methodologies of sociology and other disciplines within the social sciences, historians have made tremendous strides in promoting a better understanding of the masses. A few military historians have followed suit. Instead of writing solely about battles, campaigns, and the generals who plotted the strategies and won or lost, they turned their attention on who made up the rank and file. Edward M. Coffman dominates this breed of new military historian. His book _The War to End All Wars: The American Military Experience in World War I_ is a scholarly and brilliantly written tour de force; his collective group study: the American citizen soldier.First published in 1968 at the height of America's involvement in Vietnam, Coffman set the president for this new style of military history. His work is now a classic. As the subtitle suggests, Coffman tells the story of the whole American experience beginning in the spring of 1917 up to the signing of the Armistice. Throughout the book, Coffman remains focused on the American soldier and the planning, administration, and organization of his primary fighting force; the American Expeditionary Forces (AEF).As a result, the political machinations of coalition warfare and high level strategic decisions receives only enough attention to place his subject in proper perspective.The creation of the AEF, the largest American armed force ever sent to fight  on foreign soil up to that time, is a marvel in and of itself. Coffman covers all aspects of this tremendous achievement. General John J. Pershing sailed for France with what amounted to a understrengthed division: the 1st Division. The AEF grew to a corps sized force, and evntually the First and Second Armies. In April 1917, the AEF consisted of 200,000 soldiers. By November 1918, it contained nearly 4,000,000.  In addition to discussions on the War Department in 1917, and the stateside expansion of the United States Army, the author also covers with clever succunctness other important topics. These subjects include: the meteoric sculpting of the massive AEF command and supply structure in France; the disagreements between the General Staff in Washington and Pershing's Headquarters in Chaumont, France. Coffman also includes separate chapters on the American Navy and the air war. Coffman ties these themes together with a flowing battle narrative of the major campaigns the AEF fought in France as well as, some of the lessor known battles. It is the topics relating to the social history of the American soldier, however,  that Coffman excels. The author covers such topics as the draft, procurment of officers, the controversial amalgamation of Negro troops into French units early in the war (Pershing venomously fought attempts by the British and French to amalgamate American soldiers as canon fodder into Allied units. He said Americans will fight as Americans led by American officers. Not so, unfortunately, for Negro troops), and consciences objectors. From a social standpoint, Coffman also examines: the establishment of recreation facilities for the soldiers to discourage vice, liquor and prostitutes; venereal disease, and the culture clashes between the French and the newly arrived Americans. Coffman outlines the pros and cons of the American participation but, unlike some critics, is sympathetic to Pershing and the AEF. He is most sensitive to the role the fledgling American debut played in turning the tide and eventual victory for the Allies. Coffman makes every attempt to reveal the gratitude the French had for the American presence. Among the plethora of sources consulted, the author refers to numerous diaries and memoirs from the ordinary rank and file. An extensive \\"Essay on Sources\\" in which Coffman not only lists the archival material utilized, but also divulges how the information was applied to individual chapters, is a consolation for the lack of footnotes.The creation and deployment of the AEF in World War I is a watershed in American military history. If you want to learn not only how it was done, but also who made up its main body, this is the book to read. No one does the social history of the American army like Coffman.es how the information was applied to individual chapters, is a consolation for the lack of footnotes.The creation and deployment of the AEF in World War I is a watershed in American military history. If you want to learn not only how it was done, but also who made up its main body, this is the book to read. No one does the social history of the American army like Coffman.	2003-02-08
US	52858201	R1PH8CYCOS29BO	0813122090	309796828	Perryville: This Grand Havoc of Battle	Books	5	8	8	N	N	After this hill a river, and beyond that, another hill!	This past summer (2002) I walked the Perryville battlefield. It was a hot bright summer day with the temperature in the 90's. The tour follows the advance of the attacking Confederates as they assaulted up one hill and down the other. As the southern infantry wrestled the Union defenders off the crest of one hill, the latter retreated to the top of another, only to repeat the bloody slaughter. Dressed in light summer garb, and taking the tour at a moderate pace, I was simply exausted from both the heat and the rugged terrain. I could not help but wonder what it was like for Johnny Reb and Billy Yank dressed in hot woolen uniforms on 8 October 1862 (also a blistering day). Unlike my leisurely walk, the fighting and dying lasted all that day.Historian Kenneth W. Noe more than likely must had painted a similar mental picture. In his book _Perryville: This Grand Havoc of Battle_, Noe not only provides a grand overview of the campaign for Kentucky in 1862, but also brings back an art sometimes forgotten by recent historians: the battle narrative. The titles of Noe's chapters alone describe the nature of the combat: \\"A Babel of Confusion;\\" \\"A Small Sized Hell;\\" \\"Forward;\\" \\"A Square, Stand-Up...Fight;\\" and \\"Up the Hill Came the Rebels.\\" Although the Confederates were credited with a \\"tactical victory,\\" there were no winners at Perryville. Just as the Gettysburg citizens would be left with cleaning up the squalor of battle, so too were the scattered residents of Perryville whose homes became make-shift field hospitals. Noe consulted a vast array of sources for this scholarly treatment. Perhaps his best acomplice was Perryville park manager Kurt Holman, whose job is his passion. Holman offered Noe his unabided help on one condition: that Noe \\"get it right!\\" Noe's narrative flows evenly between higher headquarters and the musket toting private. I did not experience the difficulty with the maps expressed by other reviewers. I thought the maps were clear and simple, especially those showing the gradiant lines of the hills for which the soldiers fought. Perhaps Noe's book will not change the fact that the battle of Perryville pales compared to the larger battles in both the eastern and western theaters. Noe does, however, get the message across that Perryville was a confusing bloody day's battle fought with the musket and the bayonet. Noe's effort is a valuable addition to the literature of the Civil War in the West.those showing the gradiant lines of the hills for which the soldiers fought. Perhaps Noe's book will not change the fact that the battle of Perryville pales compared to the larger battles in both the eastern and western theaters. Noe does, however, get the message across that Perryville was a confusing bloody day's battle fought with the musket and the bayonet. Noe's effort is a valuable addition to the literature of the Civil War in the West.	2002-12-23
US	52858201	R3BLS8L97HXJG7	0898391210	721406315	Combat History Of The Eighth Infantry Division In World War II (Divisional Series)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Concise, Thorough Unit History	The Battery Press provides a substansial service by republishing original World War II unit histories written after the war.The bulk of these narratives tell the story of American infantry and armored divisions as they fought their way across Europe and the Pacific. Usually written before the last pieces of confetty were swept from the wake of victory parades across America, these tomes provide a wealth of facts about the performance of these combat formations. The 8th Infantry Division saw 266 days of almost continous fighting from Normandy to the Elbe River. At war's end, it had totaled more enemy captured than any other infantry division in the ETO (316,167 POWs) suffering a casualty rate of over 100%. Griesbach narrates the combat history of the 8th Division in a clear concise style. From hedgerow fighting in Normandy to the capture of Generalleutant Hermann B. Ramcke, the defender of Brest, the 8th Division went from a well brought-up division to a hardened combat unit. From the breakout of the deadly Huertgen Forest to urban combat in Duren and the first infantry to enter Cologne, the division survived in spite of drastic loses to its original cadre of officers and NCOs. When the division crossed the Elbe River on 2 May 1945, the war was all but over, until the horrors of the Woebbelin Concentration Camp was encountered. Griesbach breaks the story down by regiment so the combat narrative is therough. Easy to read maps accompany the action. The book is sprinkled with combat photos, however, they reproduced a bit dull compared to the original publication.Nevertheless, Griesbach packs a lot of story into ninety-eight pages. This work serves as a reference, a momento for veterans and their families, and just a good history of an outstanding fighting division.	2002-12-17
US	52858201	RL6O8JLTZBLYB	2840481448	652020520	L'Enfer de Brest (Album Historique) (French Edition)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	No French Required!	L'enfer de Brest (The Hell of Brest) tells the story of the seige of Brest which lasted about forty-nine days during August and September, 1944. While General Omar Bradley's 12th Army Group, partilarly Gen. George S. Patton's U.S. Third Army, were making spectacular gains driving eastward across France, the need for Brest as an additional deep-water port deminished. Neverheless, Bradley and Patton kept Maj. Gen. Troy H. Middleton's VIII Corps in Brittany with the mission to take Brest. The month long battle for Brest involved the most bloodiest combat encountered anywhere in Europe. The Fortress commander, Generalleutnant Herman B. Ramcke and his hodge-podge collection of defenders, centered around the 2d Fallchirmjager Division, put up a tough fight. Because it was fought hundreds of miles behind the Bradley's front, this battle has received scarce treatment by historians.Floch & Le Berre's book is written in French. This fact should not deter anyone interested in appreciating this little known battle. The author's research is impeccable. Hundreds of photos and some of the best maps I have yet encountered grace its pages. Created from the French perspecive, the authors highlight the role of the French Resistance working in conjuction with the Americans--a little known aspect of the Brittany Campaign.I hope an English translation of this work is forthcoming. Until then, look at the pictures & maps--they are surely worthy of its price tag.	2002-12-12
US	52858201	REWBN9Z1H3I04	0807124672	986680510	Troy H. Middleton: A Biography	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Rare Biography of a WWII Corps Commander!	With the exception of Gen J. Lawton Collins, little attention is placed at the level of corps command during WWII. With new biographies of Dwight D. Eisenhower and George S.Patton surfacing regularly, one wonders if and when the focus will trickle down to the two-star generals who actually fought the battles that made up the various campaigns of the war. It is for this reason that Frank James Price's biography (first  published in 1974) of Troy H. Middleton is significant.Middleton, the youngest colonel to command a regiment in WWI, commanded the 45th Infantry Division on Sicily. In March, 1944, Ike gave Middleton command of VIII Corps. It was Middleton's 4th Armored Division (Maj. Gen. John S. Wood) that spearheaded the breakout from Normandy. It was Middleton's VIII Corps that was left behind to fight in Brittany, while the rest of the American Army raced for the German border. And it was Middlton who held the southern flank during the Battle of the Bulge.Price's book is really two works combined. The first half covers Middleton's military career; the second part his career on the admisitrative faculty at Louisiana State University. Written while Middleton was still alive, Price conducted hundreds of hours of interviews with his subject. Thus, Price's work takes on the qualities of a memoir rather than an objective biography. I was also looking for a bridge between Middleton's military and civilian careers. How does a professionally trained Army officer make corporate decisions? Price (also at the time on the faulty at LSU) does not provide that bridge. Asside from these minor flaws, I reccomend Price's biography. Middleton's achievments in WWII alone should have warranted him more exposure. Although not as political as Eisenhower and, certainly not as flamboyant as Patton, Middleton story sheds light on a level of command so often overlooked by military historians.	2002-12-12
US	52858201	R1P3N0O6NKJ04	2913903215	475506910	Americans in Brittany 1944: The Battle for Brest	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Truely Forgotten Campaign Examined.	Jonathan Gawne has followed up his successful _Spearheading D-Day_ with another of what could be categorized as the tables of organization, uniforms and equipment genre of military history. This time around, he presents the least appreciated backwater operation of the entire war in Europe: the Brittany campaign.Gawne's forte is unit organization, military hardware, and uniforms and equipment. His audience are the veterans of the Second World War, specifically, those that participated in the battles and campaigns of which he writes (Gawne's own father fought throughout the campsign as a company commander in the 28th Infantry, 8th Division). To a lesser extent, the author targets collectors and re-enactors. Author/Historians with experience in working with veterans will attest to their tendency to complain bitterly if their unit is slighted by not being mentioned in a text dealing with a campaign or battle in which they had participated. Gawne is well aware of this fact and has developed a reputation for going above and beyond the call to include every American unit from the obvious to the obscure (the 23rd Special Troop, a tactical deception unit that operated in Brittany, is a case in point). This style may have its advantages, however, like the writer of a good movie script whose drama gets buried in the myriad of special effects, _Americans in Brittany_ leaves one intoxicated with sensual overload.Nine of the book's fifteen chapters are devoted to individual armor, infantry, and ranger units plus a chapter on artillery. Each page (of only 160-pages total) attempts to cram photos, side bars of people, places, and other interesting tid-bits, computer generated maps, models displaying uniforms, and numerous tables of organizations, not to mention a text font so small it blurs even the sharpest of visions. The photos, however, are impressive (some in color), many of which are contributed by veterans and family members. Particularly noteworthy are the photos offered by the family of Hermann Bernard Ramcke, the German commander of Fortress Brest, which are seen here for the first time. It is here that Gawne displays his expertise in captioning, oftentimes pointing out minute details that could otherwise escape the untrained eye.Like the military units he dipicts, however, when too many columns vie for a limited amount of space, something has to give. In this case,it's Gawne's narrative. Gawne tries his best to chronical a campaign that possesses a multitude of intertwining themes that are ripe for the picking. All of the factors that make for good military history are contained within the Brittany Campaign. Some of these themes include: logistics, professional military education, the so-called \\"war of the generals,\\" armor and cavalry doctrine, its uses and abuses, and a much neglected aspect, the role of French civilians and armed resistance in the American effort. Due to what I believe are strategies of the French publishers, Gawne was limited in scope and forced to gloss over many of these important concepts with a broad brush stroke. In addition, the absence of even a \\"selected\\" bibliography or endnotes hinders what otherwise could have been a great reference work.For those seeking a more scholarly treatment of this truly forgotten campaign, this book may leave some wanting. Yet, Gawne's labor of love has certainly reached his intended audience, the veterans and their families.I strongly recommend it for anyone truly interested in the war in the European Theater of Operations (ETO).the family of Hermann Bernard Ramcke, the German commander of Fortress Brest, which are seen here for the first time. It is here that Gawne displays his expertise in captioning, oftentimes pointing out minute details that could otherwise escape the untrained eye.Like the military units he dipicts, however, when too many columns vie for a limited amount of space, something has to give. In this case,it's Gawne's narrative. Gawne tries his best to chronical a campaign that possesses a multitude of intertwining themes that are ripe for the picking. All of the factors that make for good military history are contained within the Brittany Campaign. Some of these themes include: logistics, professional military education, the so-called \\"war of the generals,\\" armor and cavalry doctrine, its uses and abuses, and a much neglected aspect, the role of French civilians and armed resistance in the American effort. Due to what I believe are strategies of the French publishers, Gawne was limited in scope and forced to gloss over many of these important concepts with a broad brush stroke. In addition, the absence of even a \\"selected\\" bibliography or endnotes hinders what otherwise could have been a great reference work.For those seeking a more scholarly treatment of this truly forgotten campaign, this book may leave some wanting. Yet, Gawne's labor of love has certainly reached his intended audience, the veterans and their families.I strongly recommend it for anyone truly interested in the war in the European Theater of Operations (ETO).	2002-10-01
US	52858201	R3NNXX4F4B4WPI	0887407498	561244898	Knights of the Wehrmacht: Knight's Cross Holders of the Fallschirmjäger	Books	3	8	9	N	Y	Dry as Jack-boot Leather!	This book is as dry as the moldy archives it was derived from. As the title suggests, Franz Kurokski's book, another in Schiffer's Knights of the Wehrmacht Series, lists all _Knight's Cross Holders of the Fallschirmjager_. With the exception of a brief Foreword by the author (This work was translated by David Johnson: see my review of Johnson's _Righteous Deception: German Generals Against Hitler), the book contains only brief profiles of the Knight's Cross recipients. These encyclopedia style one-page entries (Kurt Student warrants three pages as it was Student who suggested to the author he take on this project, Foreward, p.5) focus on facts only concerning birth, death, posts held and military ranks achieved and of course, the date(s) that the individual received his coveted Knight's Cross, swords or diamonds. There is one accompanying photograph of the individual included on the facing page of each entry. Most photos are the studio-portrait type, however, some are taken in the field. Still others (just a few) are of the artist sketch variety that were made into postal cards, a common practice of German occupational forces. Most of the photographs are well reproduced. A couple, however,  look as if they were run through an ancient Xerox machine with low toner. This book serves its purpose as a reference work for the serious student of the Fallschirmjager arm. Anyone thinking they will find compelling battle narrative or feats of daring exploits will be very disappointed.	2002-09-23
US	52858201	R3N1J52F98BG6G	0275969533	536358579	Righteous Deception: German Officers Against Hitler	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Hoodwinking Hitler From Within: A Different Take.	Issac Newton's third law states: For every action, there is an equal, but opposite reaction. This is the hidden theme within David Johnson's _Righteous Deception_. Johnson's \\"action\\" is the Allies' D-Day deception plan FORTITUDE and its tributary plan QUICKSILVER, the counter-intelligence effort to convince the Germans of the existence of the fictional First United States Army Group (FUSTAG), and that the real invasion would be aimed at the Pas de Calais. The German \\"reaction\\" centers around the activities of two key individuals: Admiral Wilhelm Canaris, Hitler's Chief of German Military Intelligence (Abwehr) and Colonel Alexis von Roenne, Chief of Fremde Heere West (FHW). Johnson provides a readable account of the better known machinations of Canaris; his counter-espionage activities providing vital intelligence to the British and his key role in the General's conspiracy to assassinate Hitler, Swarze Kapelle (Black Orchestra).  It was when Canaris swayed the brilliant intelligence officer von Roenne to join the ranks of the conspirator's network, argues Johnson, that a critical partnership developed between the two men.Johnson places quite a bit of emphasis upon the role of von Roenne. Other authors (Fargo, _The Game of the Foxes_, and Cave Brown, _Bodyguard of Lies_) have documented von Roenne's official duties at FHW. Their consensus, however, is that Roenne was hoodwinked by the FORTITUDE deception, credited only with purposely inflating the Allied order of battle in order to get Hitler to reinforce the Normandy area. Johnson presents an opposing thesis. Johnson argues that Roenne was well aware that the FORTITUDE/QUICKSILVER deception to invade the Pas de Calais was bogus, but instead, led Hitler on to its validity in order that the Fuhrer keep the German 15th Army right where it was not needed for as long as possible. Johnson states that Canaris and Roenne were the flip-side of the FORTITUDE/QUICKSILVER coin. Johnson concludes had it not been for the duel-role of these two men, Canaris feeding valuable informaton to the Allies, and Roenne feeding Hitler false intelligence, Operation FORTITUDE, the D-Day landings and subsequent Normandy campaign would most likely have ended in failure.This book is timely, given the criticism levelled at America's current military intelligence community. Johnson places a feather in the cap of Allied deception during Word War II, however, he also creates a strange dichotomy in the process. One the one hand, Johnson shows how the Allies were successful in pulling off the deception and eventual victory in Normandy. On the other hand, he has Canaris and Roenne portrayed as willing accomplices whispering under their cloak and dagger: \\"You did not win on your own, we let you win.\\" Whether or not one agrees with Johnson's conclusions, this book is an easy read and the author maintains his argument solidly throughout. For those wishing to delve deeper into his sources, however, Johnson does not make it easy. He relies primarily on secondary sources, biographies and memoirs of all the key players on both sides. He lists documentary evidence housed  both here at the Eisenhower Library and the Bundesarchiv-Militararchiv in Germany. Unfortunately he does not cite these sources specifically in the text. Fans of World War II counter-espionage and intelligence may want to add this book to their collection for its different take and readability.of these two men, Canaris feeding valuable informaton to the Allies, and Roenne feeding Hitler false intelligence, Operation FORTITUDE, the D-Day landings and subsequent Normandy campaign would most likely have ended in failure.This book is timely, given the criticism levelled at America's current military intelligence community. Johnson places a feather in the cap of Allied deception during Word War II, however, he also creates a strange dichotomy in the process. One the one hand, Johnson shows how the Allies were successful in pulling off the deception and eventual victory in Normandy. On the other hand, he has Canaris and Roenne portrayed as willing accomplices whispering under their cloak and dagger: \\"You did not win on your own, we let you win.\\" Whether or not one agrees with Johnson's conclusions, this book is an easy read and the author maintains his argument solidly throughout. For those wishing to delve deeper into his sources, however, Johnson does not make it easy. He relies primarily on secondary sources, biographies and memoirs of all the key players on both sides. He lists documentary evidence housed  both here at the Eisenhower Library and the Bundesarchiv-Militararchiv in Germany. Unfortunately he does not cite these sources specifically in the text. Fans of World War II counter-espionage and intelligence may want to add this book to their collection for its different take and readability.	2002-09-22
US	52858201	R3DTAZ7KFJVGJC	0812218310	88507872	The Battle of the Huertgen Forest	Books	5	58	59	N	N	First Huertgen Forest Account Returns	The late Charles B MacDonald served as an officer of infantry in World War II and later became a civilian historian in the U.S. Army's historical division. His memoir, _Company Commander_ has enjoyed classic status. He also contributed three volumes to the Official History of the U.S. Army in World War II, commonly known as the \\"Green Books.\\" This work, first published in 1963, still holds a valued place in World War II historiography.Although such recent authors  as Gerald Astor (The Bloody Forest, 2000), Edward G. Miller (A Dark and Bloody Ground, 1995) and  Robert Sterling Rush (Hell in Hurtgen Forest, 2001) have contributed new studies that take advantage of the latest sources, they all owe a debt of gratitude to MacDonald. MacDonald was the first to argue that the American planners failed to appreciate the importance of the Roer River dams as a primary objective of the Huertgen Forest campaign. He was also the first to state the Huertgen Forest was a wasteful squander of American lives and should have been avoided. Again, he was the first to criticize the American leadership for not fully comprehending the detrimental affects of the rugged terrain, the staunch German defence, and the harsh weather conditions that was indicative of the slaughter in the Huertgen Forest. These three basic themes would provide a basis for Astor, Miller, Rush, and others attempting to provide any future analysis of the campaign.  MacDonald places the initial probes into the forest in September, 1944; the failure of the 9th Division in October; the decimation of the 28th Division in early November; and the final breakout in late November in overall perspective. MacDonald also provides a summation of Eisenhower's \\"broad-front strategy\\", a wide sweeping advance into the enemy's heartland, coupled with a strategy of annihilation, that of destroying the enemy and his ability to wage war. With this overall strategy in mind, what then was to be done with the Huertgen Forest? How were the Roer River dams to be captured when the heavily fortified town of Schmidt, and the better roads it provided for German armor and infantry, was continually denied to one American division after another? MacDonald does not tell us, nor, for that matter, does Astor, Miller, or Rush. The mistakes of generals are oftentimes evident; alternative solutions come harder.Yet, as a comprehensive narrative of the Huertgen Forest campaign, MacDonalds book was, and still is a solid foundation from which to build insight into what is perhaps the most difficult and bloody campaign in American Military history. A must for anyone interested in this terrible fight.oer River dams to be captured when the heavily fortified town of Schmidt, and the better roads it provided for German armor and infantry, was continually denied to one American division after another? MacDonald does not tell us, nor, for that matter, does Astor, Miller, or Rush. The mistakes of generals are oftentimes evident; alternative solutions come harder.Yet, as a comprehensive narrative of the Huertgen Forest campaign, MacDonalds book was, and still is a solid foundation from which to build insight into what is perhaps the most difficult and bloody campaign in American Military history. A must for anyone interested in this terrible fight.	2002-09-12
US	52858201	R2PNTPNZMO1273	1578062144	578309045	Unsung Valor: A GI's Story of World War II	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Soul Searching Memoir	A. Cleveland Harrison has written a poignant testimony to the American spirit. Vailed behind the popular myth of eager inductees queuing in draft lines that stretched for city blocks immediately following the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, were the \\"reluctant recruits\\" that encompassed the multi-faceted face of America. Farmers who could not afford to leave their family livelihood; ordinary freckled-faced boys who wanted nothing more than to marry their high school sweethearts and raise a family; and college students who feared the termination of their academic studies to go off and face the horrors of war. Cleveland Harrison was among this latter catagory.In _Unsung Valor: A GI's Story of World War II_ Harrison combines the descriptive skills of a novelist with impeccable powers of recall to deliver a tour de force that should soon be deemed a classic. As a naive academic hopeful plucked from college to join the ranks of the Army's Specialized Training Program (ASTP) in 1943, Harrison faced a dilemma that would haunt him from Little Rock, Arkansas to Germany's Siegfried Line. On the one hand, Harrison, like so many proud Americans, wanted to do his duty and serve his country. On the other hand, the precocious youth realized the futility of war and like the protagonist of Steven Crane and Erich Maria Remarque, agonized how he would inevitable confront his fears in combat.This book is hard to put down. Professor Harrison can write and his prose is refreshing whether he is describing the technicalities of the M-1 Garrand rifle or the peculiarities of the cross-section of American youth who suddenly found themselves the property of Uncle Sam. This reviewer will dispense with the customary summery of the book in hopes that everyone will want to read this touching memoir. It will suffice to say, however, that manpower shortages in the winter of 1944-45 overcame the young man's attempts to intellectually control his destiny. As a rifleman in the 94th Infantry Division, Harrison confronted his worst fears in the frozen forest of the Ardennes. After his unit was nearly decimated, Harrison tripped a land mine and was severely wounded but alive. The memoirist recalls those harrowing moments from the depth of his soul:\\"I lay on a blanket on a litter beside other dark still forms. Breathing my thanks to God, I offered the deepest thanksgiving of my life. I had spent the day staying alive, not fearing death...and I'd met the soldier's combat duty: I hadn't run away, I hadn't broken down emotionally. Discipline and God's grace prevailed.'Oh God,Thou art a hiding place for me,thou perservest me from trouble;thou dost encompass me in deliverance.'Confronted by the Psalmist's lines and enveloped by weariness, I fell asleep.\\"Harrison has given us a touching visual of the realities of war and in the process, found healing and peace with himself.Harrison confronted his worst fears in the frozen forest of the Ardennes. After his unit was nearly decimated, Harrison tripped a land mine and was severely wounded but alive. The memoirist recalls those harrowing moments from the depth of his soul:\\"I lay on a blanket on a litter beside other dark still forms. Breathing my thanks to God, I offered the deepest thanksgiving of my life. I had spent the day staying alive, not fearing death...and I'd met the soldier's combat duty: I hadn't run away, I hadn't broken down emotionally. Discipline and God's grace prevailed.'Oh God,Thou art a hiding place for me,thou perservest me from trouble;thou dost encompass me in deliverance.'Confronted by the Psalmist's lines and enveloped by weariness, I fell asleep.\\"Harrison has given us a touching visual of the realities of war and in the process, found healing and peace with himself.	2002-09-10
US	52858201	R22PJSTSL7VJIQ	096406118X	669340106	Tanks for the Memories: Expanded Second Edition	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Oral History at its Best.	In 1984, Tom Brokaw became enamored with the D-Day veterans he was assigned to cover for the fortieth-anniversary of that \\"longest day.\\" This affection eventually materialized into his best selling book: THE GREATEST GENERATION. In 1988, Steven Ambrose attended a reunion of E Company, 506th Parachute Infantry Regiment and was fascinated by their stories. This led to an award winning book and HBO mini-series: BAND OF BROTHERS. Less known, however, are the growing legions of amateur military and oral historians, whose efforts to break the silence and delve into the memories of a quickly dwindling generation of World War II veterans, are producing significant testimonies. Aaron Elson is one such historian and this book _TANKS for the Memories: The 712th Tank Battalion During World War II_ belongs on the shelf of anyone seriously interested in the American GI. What began as an attempt to learn more about his own father's service in this unit, flowered into oral history at its best. The veterans whose stories fill these pages represent a cross-section of American society; they are true citizen soldiers. From humble beginnings in the 11th Cavalry at Camp Seeley, Calif to a cadre for the 10th Armored Division, the 712th TB would eventually fight in some of the bloodiest campaigns in Northwest Europe. Landing at UTAH Beach on D + 22, the 712th was attached to the hard-luck 90th Infantry Division, whose mauling in the hedgerows of Normandy nearly caused its demise as a fighting unit. Their luck would change, however, and the 90th Division would go on to become one of the best in General George S. Patton's Third Army. And the 712th would be in the thick of the fighting, from the mud and toil of the Saar, to the cracking of the Siegfried Line. Elson allows the veterans to tell the entire story. In fact, with the exception of a \\"Timeline,\\"  maps, and chapters that are arranged chronologically, there is no historical narrative to put the veteran's testimonies in perspective. As a result, those with a minimum of background knowledge of the war in the ETO may be at a disadvantage and would benefit by  having an accompanying overview volume of the war handy. Likewise, Elson omits some of the amenities found in other works such as notes and an index. Elson does, however, include a substantial number of photos, both wartime and recent reunions, to put a human face to the stories. Putting the minor stylistic and organizational critiques aside, this book is a gem. Perhaps Elson realizes that nobody can tell what it was like to train and fight in an armored unit in World War II like those who did the actual fighting. For this reason, Elson's book serves not only as a valuable resource to future researchers, but also anyone who ever has asked, or wanted to ask: \\"what did you do in the war, dad?\\"a result, those with a minimum of background knowledge of the war in the ETO may be at a disadvantage and would benefit by  having an accompanying overview volume of the war handy. Likewise, Elson omits some of the amenities found in other works such as notes and an index. Elson does, however, include a substantial number of photos, both wartime and recent reunions, to put a human face to the stories. Putting the minor stylistic and organizational critiques aside, this book is a gem. Perhaps Elson realizes that nobody can tell what it was like to train and fight in an armored unit in World War II like those who did the actual fighting. For this reason, Elson's book serves not only as a valuable resource to future researchers, but also anyone who ever has asked, or wanted to ask: \\"what did you do in the war, dad?\\"	2002-07-26
US	52858201	R6R3DNP71W10U	0891416994	974439510	The Bloody Forest: The Battle for the Huertgen, September 1944 - January 1945	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Good Oral History, Old Arguments.	The strength of Gerald Astor's book lies in his oral history narrative. As a work of history, however, Astor breaks no new ground. The standard arguments: the Roer River Dams should have been the American's prime objective; the Hurtgen Forest should have been avoided; the American numerical advantage, armor and air supremacy were nullified in the confines of the forest, are repeated once again in Astor's work. Astor tries to represent as many units that took part in the fighting as possible. Good oral history, no new analysis.	2002-05-22
US	52858201	R3JT5ZSQ572RZI	0807127574	522364679	Fighting in the Great Crusade: An 8th Infantry Artillery Officer in World War II	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	Untapped Diary of an 8th Division Officer.	Anyone interested in American history in general, or American military history in particular, will appreciate the discovery of an untapped diary of an American soldier. Gregory Daddis has unlocked one such diary of a young artillery officer in World War II. What is more, Daddis offers a history of one of the least mentioned, \\"work horse,\\" divisions, as Russell F. Weigley discribes it in the Foreword, in the European Theater: the U.S. 8th Infantry Division. Daddis reproduces the daily journal entries of George Schwend verbatum. Schwend hides his emotions and sticks to logging his daily routine. Other than his obvious love for his fiance Jean at home, we never know his fears, hopes, aspirations or opinions. Yet the entries shed interesting insight to the training of the U.S. Army (Gen. Eisenhower called the 8th Division the best trained unit to enter the ETO). From the cultural aspect, Schwend lists every movie he saw in three years in the Army. In addition, Schwend's log shows the postal system during the war years, was quite efficient. According to Schwend's daily weather discriptions, except for scattered days, perhaps the weather in Europe (and the 8th Division was in the thick of it) was not abnormally cold as some historians have claimed. Throughout the book, Daddis placed Schwend and the 266 days the 8th Division saw combat from Normandy, Brittany, the bitter Hurtgen Forest, the crossings of the Roer and Rhine Rivers and the horror encountered at the Wobbelin concentration camp in overall perspective. As a veteran of the Persian Gulf War, Major Daddis offers some analysis of his own on combined operations, the role of artillery, and the command structure of the U.S. Army in World War II. Daddis draws from a wealth of sources including some unpublished manuscripts housed at the West Point library, used here for the first time. My only criticism is the book is too short. A valuable addition to the lexicon of the \\"citizen-soldier!\\"	2002-05-18
