US	52852796	R1Z6TSEBR1P7WD	0505525372	678465223	Spellbound in Seattle	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Magical Debut that is not to be missed	Earth, 50 years after it is learned that magic and physics can be combined:<br />Petra W. Fields, daughter of two powerful wizards, is one of the rare individuals who have no magic at all. That being the case her childhood had been a difficult one. Unfortunately her relationships with the magical breed gets no easier for her in adulthood. She had fled her faithless fiance, who had only wanted to attach himself to her parents, to the one place he (and the police) would never think to look for her - Seattle, the hotbed of wizardry.<br />As usual magic is at the root of her latest problem. She's having a party in an hour, and the perfectly spotless rug she'd purchased at a flea market now sports a magical blood stain. Naturally a magical stain requires magic to remove. She puts in a call to Rapid Renovations, but the owner of the competition, Emerald Rennaisance Garments arrives first. Strapped for time, she hires his firm.<br />The stain is more complicated than first assessed and the company wizard arrives. Petra can't help notice that he's one hot hunk, but of course her track record with magical men hasn't been great. Vorador, who is Seattle's Grand Wizard, had been the anomaly in a family proud of their non magical pedigree. Compared to his childhood, Petra's had been a picnic. He tends to avoid non magicals like the plague, but he's stunned speechless by Petra W. Fields. Instead of suave and competent, he comes off as haughty and arrogant. Ouch, He promises to have the stain removed by morning. Then they can go their separate ways, but when Petra wakes up she finds a hole in the floor where the stain had been.<br />Bosco, the stray cat that had arrived on her doorstep the same day she bought the carpet jumps in, and naturally Vorador follows. When neither returns, Petra decides to look for them. She lands in Voradors lap. Not a bad place to be, but this is not her basement. Nope, its a manifestation of the spell cast by the crime victim to leave clues about the identity of the murderer. And so the adventure begins. As the pair attempts to discover who done it, they drive each other crazy - mostly with passion.<br />Whew! This book was hilarious, suspenseful, and really hot, while subtly driving home a point about prejudice. An astounding magical debut that is not to be missed. ---Leslie Tramposch ~ PNR Reviewsidentity of the murderer. And so the adventure begins. As the pair attempts to discover who done it, they drive each other crazy - mostly with passion.<br />Whew! This book was hilarious, suspenseful, and really hot, while subtly driving home a point about prejudice. An astounding magical debut that is not to be missed. ---Leslie Tramposch ~ PNR Reviews	2003-04-22
US	52852796	R32W3O8F1QQHXY	0505525240	496362927	Shadow Crossing	Books	5	40	44	N	N	The lastest Shielder adventure was well worth the wait.	I credit my new found love of futuristic romance in large part to Catherine Spangler. Ms. Spangler's Shielders have been the downtrodden determined underdogs everyone loves to route for. But what now? The Shielders have escaped tyranny through a wormhole to settle in a new quadrant, one where everyone is equal. Or are they?<br />Celie Cameron had used the excitement of  her illegal smuggling ventures to keep her mind off her personal hell, now her life is dull and gives her much too much time to think about her past. That is until she delivers a shipment to the ninth sector. Something is very wrong there. The foul air and poor conditions on Joba remind her of Calt, a hell-hole in the old quadrant. Following her instincts she looks for her employer, Max, in a seamy bar, and finds him there.<br />After feeling him out to ensure that he is not responsible for the deplorable conditions on the planet, Celie leads him and his android, Rurick, to her ship to transfer the goods. While making the exchange, they are attacked. Out numbered and out gunned, they barely escape in Max's craft, leaving Ceilie's behind. Max had been injured in the attack, leaving Rurick to pilot the ship and see to its repairs.<br />Celie finds herself intrigued by the android, Rurick. Though obviously designed to be his master's double, he has far more personality than the human man. Warmth just seemed to radiate from him. Perhaps he was the answer to the questions that burned in her on long lonely nights. With him she could experience what she would never allow herself to experience with a real man?<br />Rurick too has secrets. His deception had been perpetrated for his own protection. Max is the real android and Rurick is the Crown Prince of his people. He had been in search of his late mother's relations when he had stumbled upon the deplorable conditions in the ninth sector. The attraction Celie feels for him is definitely mutual, but his mission of mercy has to take precedence. She could not discover who he was. -- Easier said than done.<br />Though often at cross purposes, both Celie and Rurick are determined to right the wrongs in the ninth sector. Can they fight the attraction that would be disasterous for both? SHADOW CROSSING is a grand adventure, filled with intrigue and incredible passion. It is a tale of greed, ignorance, and betrayal, of self acceptance, and of love. Ms. Spangler just gets better and better. I can't wait for the next installment!---Leslie Tramposch ~ PNR Reviewsiscover who he was. -- Easier said than done.<br />Though often at cross purposes, both Celie and Rurick are determined to right the wrongs in the ninth sector. Can they fight the attraction that would be disasterous for both? SHADOW CROSSING is a grand adventure, filled with intrigue and incredible passion. It is a tale of greed, ignorance, and betrayal, of self acceptance, and of love. Ms. Spangler just gets better and better. I can't wait for the next installment!---Leslie Tramposch ~ PNR Reviews	2003-04-18
US	52852796	RCN52XW95DJ4X	1553165810	758589350	Paradox	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Tales of love that will make you sweat!	\\"Fly With A Dragon\\" by Rosemary Laurey<br />Myfanwy attempts to shore her trepidation as she waits helplessly to become the dragon's next victim. She had witnessed the charred remains of his last two victims and was determined to face her inevitable death with courage. How had she, the daughter of the village chieftain come to this? It had been the dragon's request for a virgin that had sealed her fate.<br />The dragon of Cader Bala is most pleased with his offering. He has little respect for humans, but this feisty little one seemed different. Arragh could not help admire Myfawnwy, who had faced him with unusual bravery. She would not be his victim, for in truth dragons did not kill. He had a different fate in store for her. She would be the hope of his people, his mate. The pleasure of his lips on her body gives her pause to wonder at her true fate as they wing their way to Cader Ambris, the fire mountain.<br />With a dragon it could only be hot, hot, hot!<br />Whew! Have some ice water handy. If this extremely erotic fantasy doesn't make you break out in a sweat, nothing will!<br />\\"Heart of a Raven\\" by J. C. Wilder<br />Ms. Wilder has taken a woman of pure heart, and passionate soul, and transformed her into a woman capable of winning the hearts of her lover's people while saving his tortured soul with the power of her love. Never has a fairytale sizzled like this one! HEART OF THE RAVEN is a highly sensual combination of Beauty and the Beast and Cinderella, which will leave readers yearning for more of its kind.<br />Dani had the misfortune of being born into a pack of shiftless travelers, a caste to too lowly to be even considered common. Drunks, gamblers, and thieves, they drifted from town to town quickly wearing out their welcome. Dani dreamed of getting away. Her biggest fear is that she'll be sold into slavery, as her older sister had been.<br />That is exactly what happens one night when two well dressed strangers ask to share their fire. Seeing a chance to make some easy money, her father and uncle invite the two men to gamble. Dani's uncle plays them deeply debt and Con offers the men Dani in payment.<br />Finding herself in much changed circumstances, Dani felt she could do almost anything for Haaken. But he is the Overseer of the city, descended from a long line of overseers, all cursed. The tale of the curse is told in stained glass in the Overseer's bedchamber. Long ago Haaken's ancestor had proven to be a heartless man. A curse was cast upon him and the first born sons of his descendants, to be a man by night, and a raven by day until he could give his heart fully to his one true love.<br />But Haaken is anything but a beast. He is well loved by his siblings, his men, and his people. He is well on his way to winning Dani's heart too. Can she be \\"The One\\"? Can he afford to risk his heart? As his thirtieth birthday approaches, and the curse threatens to swallow what's left of his humanity, how can he not?<br />If you've ever dreamed of living passionately ever after, this one's for you!<br /><br />Leslie Tramposch ~ PNR Reviewsmake some easy money, her father and uncle invite the two men to gamble. Dani's uncle plays them deeply debt and Con offers the men Dani in payment.<br />Finding herself in much changed circumstances, Dani felt she could do almost anything for Haaken. But he is the Overseer of the city, descended from a long line of overseers, all cursed. The tale of the curse is told in stained glass in the Overseer's bedchamber. Long ago Haaken's ancestor had proven to be a heartless man. A curse was cast upon him and the first born sons of his descendants, to be a man by night, and a raven by day until he could give his heart fully to his one true love.<br />But Haaken is anything but a beast. He is well loved by his siblings, his men, and his people. He is well on his way to winning Dani's heart too. Can she be \\"The One\\"? Can he afford to risk his heart? As his thirtieth birthday approaches, and the curse threatens to swallow what's left of his humanity, how can he not?<br />If you've ever dreamed of living passionately ever after, this one's for you! <BR><BR>Leslie Tramposch ~ PNR Reviews	2002-12-03
US	52852796	R1N9LNCGN2OTPT	1931419094	589634685	Rapture in Moonlight	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Vampires Invade Ohio in stunning sequel to WALK IN MOONLIGHT	RAPTURE IN MOONLIGHT is the sequel to Rosemary Laurey's WALK IN MOONLIGHT, and the second book in the \\"Moonlight\\"  trilogy (MYSTERY IN MOONLIGHT coming in 2002).<br />Kit Marlowe and his lover Dixie LePage (WALK IN MOONLIGHT) have settled in Ohio. Dixie, a fledgling vampire, has a greater need for her native soil to realize the full extent of her powers. The pair have settled in the German Village section of Columbus where Dixie runs a novelty shop called The Vampire Emporium and Kit tries to keep crime to a minimum.<br />Gwyltha, head of their vampire colony, has sent their friend, Justin Corvus to the states to work out territorial arrangements for them with the leader of an established New World Colony, Vlad Tepes (Dracula). Although happy to see his friends once more, Justin doesn't relish the task. Vlad had stolen Gwyltha from him many years ago.  Centuries later, Justin had still not gotten over the loss. Still he will do anything for Kit and Dixie.<br />Covering for Dixie in her shop, Justine meets Stella Schwartz who is window shopping with her son. She has more trouble than she needs already. Single mother to eight-year-old Sam, she works for a dry cleaner, barely making ends meet. They live in a crime-ridden neighborhood thanks to her mother, a habitual criminal whose house Stella's promised to watch until her release from jail. The last thing she needs is to fall in love with a handsome Brit Doctor who is just visiting. Sam needs stability in his life.<br />One look at Stella and all thoughts of lost love fled Justin's mind. This is a woman he could spend eternity with. However she is mortal and doesn't even believe in vampires. He too knows that an affair would be short-lived, but somehow convinces himself that a small dalliance would be mutually beneficial.<br />It  would seem that the attraction is too hard for either of them to resist. Before long Stella and Sam are  firmly entrenched in Justin's heart and vice versa. By becoming their self appointed protector, he runs afoul of the neighborhood hoodlums. When Stella falls prey to their vengeance, Justin's rage knows no bounds.<br />Unfortunately his colony had set strict limits on vampire justice and Justin had helped establish those rules. Breaking them carries the sentence of banishment from the colony. Interfering with human conflicts is a big no-no. His friends vow to support him, but Justin anticipating the outcome of the trial,  makes plans for the care of his loved ones which don't include him.<br />Vampires converge in Ohio while Justin awaits sentencing by Gwyltha's tribunal. Meanwhile, her lover Vlad has asked him for an enormous favor which could mean trouble for all of them. Vlad has acquired a pair of  young and beautiful female ghouls  whose minds have been erased by their creator. He wants Justin's New World colony to adopt them as Gwyltha has forbidden the making of ghouls. Neither Vlad, nor Justin want to raise her ire. Dixie has other ideas though, and when Dixie's on a crusade look out! For her part Stella has no intentions of letting Justin be railroaded out of town, even if she has to face down the queen vampire herself. Double trouble!<br />Enter Tom Kyd (also a former Elizabethan playwright and third member of the old boys vampire trio),  who arrives with the tribunal. Like Kit he has every intention of supporting his friend Justin. Tom is the colony's computer expert and is the one they turn to for forged ID, etc..  Tom is smitten with the ghoul who has taken the name Angela, and becomes determined to ferret out her identity. This sets the stage for book three: MYSTERY IN MOONLIGHT.<br />RAPTURE IN MOONLIGHT continues Ms. Laurey's tradition of providing strong independent heroines and passionate  heroes whose protective streaks may be a mile wide, but who are also loyal, loving and supportive. Ms. Laurey has a knack for weaving human reality into her fantasy, whether it be 16th century writers caught up in the politics of their times, ora modern day single mother struggling to make ends meet in an unsavory environment, allowing readers to relate to her characters while drawing them into the realm of the vampire.<br />Leslie Tramposch - PNR Reviewsor a modern day single mother struggling to make ends meet in an unsavory environment, allowing readers to relate to her characters while drawing them into the realm of the vampire.<br />Leslie Tramposch - PNR Reviews	2002-01-03
US	52852796	R2Q4FEQYL9FDX5	0505524120	253766035	The Wolf of Haskell Hall (Candleglow)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	A nice blend of gothic  romance and paranromal	One of two lead titles, The Wolf of Haskell Hall is a promising start to the new Candleglow gothic line form Love Spell.<br />A failed love affair, a premature child, an untimely death, and a gyspy curse set things in motion pitting Griffith males against Haskell heiresses for neigh a century. Now the last remaining members of the two families have come together at last, will this be the end of the line or a new beginning?<br />Cornwall 1878: The grizzly death (by wolves) of her predicessor finds young American heiress Delilah Haskell Trent the new owner of Haskell Hall where she meets her groundskeeper Ian Griffith for the first time. She is not yet aware of the history between the two families, however he is. A clash is inevitable for she is arrogant and he is insolent. The combination fires a passion between the two but Ian has a secret that could tear them apart. Lil is in his blood but so is the call of the wild! Lil is certain she can find a cure, but can she find the key to atonement before it's too late?<br />The story contains an interesting group of side characters, a banty former sailor, and a  female horsemaster/detective by the very appropriate name of Holmes, several judgemental members of Cornish society, and two very soulless villians, who will stop at nothing to keep Lil and Ian from breaking the curse.<br />A good blend of romance and horror, with a prevailing theme of redemption. Readers anxiously awaiting the return of gothic romance will not be dissappointed.<br />Leslie Tramposch ~ Managing editor PNR	2001-01-06
US	52852796	RC2U029RWJWHC	1929613539	427572155	Walk in Moonlight	Books	5	41	41	N	N	Best new Vampire Saga of the year!	Contemporary American Dixie LePage gets more than she bargained for when she travels to England to inspect the house she's inherited from her two unscrupulous great-aunts. There she meets two unusual men who both express interest in the contents of her library.......................and her.<br />Dixie's solicitor, Sebastian Caughleigh is in fact the leader of a corrupted wiccan cult.  Unknown to Dixie, her two great-aunts had been witches as well, with powers that they used alternately to help the villagers.....and to blackmail them. It is presumed that somewhere in that library lurks the ledger that will make Sebastian's fortune. He will stop at nothing, not even murder to obtain those secrets. He would prefer to send Dixie packing ASAP.<br />The other man is  Christopher Marlowe, Kit for short, is interested in obtaining the literature her library contains. Kit is a vampire. What is interesting here is that Christopher Marlowe truly lived at one time. He was a contemporary of William Shakespeare, his death at an early age is shrouded in mystery lending credibility to the scenario portrayed so skillfully by Ms. Laurey. Walk In Moonlight blends fiction, fact, humor and romance to create a wholly believable tale.<br /> For their own protection the vampire community keeps itself separate from the human race. Kit's contemporaries &lt;vampires&gt; include his contemporary in life Thomas Kyd, and an ancient named Justin who created Kit. Both are interesting enough to warrant sequels.<br />While Sebastian is all too mortal, Kit cannot enter Dixie's home without an invitation. He must cultivate Dixie in order to obtain one, but he had not expected to be so taken with the lovely American.  Of course he realizes that a relationship is not possible, he believes that Dixie would be appalled if she knew of his true nature. He does a remarkable job of fooling her but certain things just don't add up.  He is also aware of Sebastian's interest and has reason to dislike the man. Before he knows what's hit him, he finds himself in the role of her protector. Unfortunately Sebastian is on to him as well and Kit finds that he is unable to protect himself.<br />Sebastian doesn't appeal to Dixie in the least. Kit is a different story. The more time she spends with him the more she comes to care.  Sebastian's greed goes beyond the book belonging to Dixie's deceased relatives, he knows exactly what Kit is and believes by destroying him, he will gain Kit's power for himself. He believes he has succeeded and in truth he very nearly does. But Ms. Laurey turns the tables quite cleverly as the protected becomes the savior. Dixie, faced with the evidence of her beloved's true nature, is the only one who can rescue Kit from a fate far worse than the death he's already experienced.<br />Sebastian's plot takes a further twist as he goes on a killing spree, implicating Kit, who naturally has disappeared. Now the only one who stands between him and his goal is Dixie. Will she become the next victim or can Kit and Dixie find a way to thwart Sebastian and compel him to turn himself in before it's too late? Can two such totally different beings of different era's, places, and general makeup, find the means to be together in the way that their hearts desire? The answer may surprise you.<br />I adore strong heroines and Dixie LePage is definitively one of these. Kit is a truly marvelous hero as well.  As with most paranormal novels it is the province of the author to establish \\"the rules\\". I've always found it deliciously ironic that a being with supernatural strength and rapid healing ability could also be so extremely vulnerable. Ms. Laurey invented some new vampire \\"rules\\" as well. Humor abounds as this modern day woman contends with a trio of extremely proper historical vampires.  A thoroughly enjoyable and a highly recommend read. I fervently hope for those sequels!<br />Leslie Tramposch ~Managing Editor of PNR (Paranormal Romance)Before he knows what's hit him, he finds himself in the role of her protector. Unfortunately Sebastian is on to him as well and Kit finds that he is unable to protect himself.<br />Sebastian doesn't appeal to Dixie in the least. Kit is a different story. The more time she spends with him the more she comes to care.  Sebastian's greed goes beyond the book belonging to Dixie's deceased relatives, he knows exactly what Kit is and believes by destroying him, he will gain Kit's power for himself. He believes he has succeeded and in truth he very nearly does. But Ms. Laurey turns the tables quite cleverly as the protected becomes the savior. Dixie, faced with the evidence of her beloved's true nature, is the only one who can rescue Kit from a fate far worse than the death he's already experienced.<br />Sebastian's plot takes a further twist as he goes on a killing spree, implicating Kit, who naturally has disappeared. Now the only one who stands between him and his goal is Dixie. Will she become the next victim or can Kit and Dixie find a way to thwart Sebastian and compel him to turn himself in before it's too late? Can two such totally different beings of different era's, places, and general makeup, find the means to be together in the way that their hearts desire? The answer may surprise you. <br />I adore strong heroines and Dixie LePage is definitively one of these. Kit is a truly marvelous hero as well.  As with most paranormal novels it is the province of the author to establish \\"the rules\\". I've always found it deliciously ironic that a being with supernatural strength and rapid healing ability could also be so extremely vulnerable. Ms. Laurey invented some new vampire \\"rules\\" as well. Humor abounds as this modern day woman contends with a trio of extremely proper historical vampires.  A thoroughly enjoyable and a highly recommend read. I fervently hope for those sequels!<br />Leslie Tramposch ~Managing Editor of PNR (Paranormal Romance)	2000-11-28
US	52852796	R27XIFG1E7PXCZ	0505523825	706130378	The Trickster (Olympus Series, Book 1)	Books	5	50	53	N	N	A Fun new Series	Many centuries ago the Oracle of another world had banished an group of it's citizens to Earth where they settled on Mt. Olympus.  Because of their longevity and high-technical abilities they were revered as gods. No one enjoyed this status more than Zeus, who commingled freely with several  earthly women, bearing children and starting new lines among the humans for  though mates from his world formed strong spiritual and intellectual bonds,  fidelity wasn't their strong suit. However, Zeus's wife Hera had very  quickly assimilated the human trait of jealousy. After years of strife  she'd finally left him. He hasn't seen her in a millennium. Now he is  feeling his mortality and plans to make amends in order to win her  back.<br />In the passing years the humans developed their own technology and  the so-called gods were soon forgotten. Some chose simply to blend in with  the humans, others had either died, or been called home.  Zeus's straying  had resulted in several lines of unfortunate women who appear to be cursed  with exceptional bad luck in love.  Zeus, now \\"middle-aged\\" has become  bored with his long life and decides to meddle a bit. Part of his plan to  win Hera back is to choose one woman from each of the lines that he created  and solve their love woes. He has made himself a solemn vow to be faithful,  he knows winning Hera back will be the most difficult task he's ever  attempted.<br />The first woman Zeus chooses is Joy Taylor, of the line of Io.  He had once transformed gentle Io into a cow to hide her from Hera's wrath  for his transgressions.  Joy has not only been unlucky in love, she is  severely allergic to cow by-products a real hindrance to an aspiring  chef.<br />Zeus is pleased that \\"Mr. Right\\" has just proposed to Joy. When Joy  refuses the suit, Zeus assumes the curse is still at work and endeavors to  ensure a wedding between the two.  Watch out! Trouble is on its way in the  form of Mark Hennessey, once the love of Joy's life. Zeus recognizes the  look of the trickster, Hermes, in Marks face. obviously another part of the  curse.  A match between a son of Olympus and a daughter of Earth just won't  do. Zeus does everything in his considerable power to keep these two  apart.<br />Joy and Mark were kindred spirits in their teen years. They'd both  led nomadic lives, Joy because of her mother's numerous marriages, Mark  because of his father's shady dealings. They'd found a home in each other.  Mark, a year older, had promised upon graduating (from high school) that he  would find a means to support them both and would return one year later, on  Joy's graduation night, to marry her.  When Mark fails to show, Joy panics,  and marries another man a scant four months later.  At eighteen, she hadn't  felt able to take on the support of her flighty mother and 5-year-old  sister but Joy is too smart not to realize she's repeating a bad pattern  that has plagued the women in her family for generations. Soon divorced,  Joy finds the means to support them all when Mom's latest husband takes  off, leaving them his ostrich farm in Louisiana.  Capitalizing on her  cooking ability, Joy centers her cuisine on the alternative source of meat.  The ostrich products provide the family with funds to live on. She has no  need to marry a man, except for love.<br />Mark had been on the lam with his  con-man father for most of his young life.  After Mark met Joy, he'd let  his father move on without him.  He'd been abused, locked up in small dark  places, for not pleasing the man, and has developed claustrophobia as a  result.  His return to her had been prevented by circumstances manipulated  by others. He had returned to find her married though he never let her  know. Still her carried the hurt of that betrayal deep inside and  determined never to be bound to anyone ever again. His freedom is paramount  to his existence. He has chosen a career he loves and which keeps him  moving from place to place.<br />Marks occupationis another irony. He is a  well-known magician, a Vegas headliner. Now, seven years later, he's in  town to perform at the Mushroom Festival which Joy is working on. This is  simply a cover for his real mission, to recover a stolen book of ancient  magic, which contains the secret to the Elements illusion. It is one that  he has never mastered, due to his claustrophobia. It is an escape act that  requires him to be bound in darkness, his greatest fear. Joy is suspected  to be in cahoots with the smuggler.<br />He tells himself he is not there to  rekindle things with Joy he is there to keep an eye on her and recover the  book. Her barn is a convenient place to rehearse his act and Joy is in need  of a farm hand. He finds himself living in her caretaker's cottage. The old  chemistry is still at work though, and try as he might, Zeus can't seem to  keep the pair apart. Hera steps in before Zeus makes a total mess of  things. But just when things appear to be straightened out, the couple  realizes that they can't give the other what they need most. Can the two  \\"gods\\" help Joy to find her wings with Mark, or Mark to find his roots with  Joy? Will Hera finally forgive Zeus?<br />I liked this book a lot because the  author respected the reader and didn't take the easy way out with the  ending. Compromise is the order of the day and one feels certain everything  will work out fine. She also gave us some lovely side characters, who have  definite possibilities for the continuation of the series, and a truly  despicable villain as well.  All in all it was a fun read.~ .......is another irony. He is a  well-known magician, a Vegas headliner. Now, seven years later, he's in  town to perform at the Mushroom Festival which Joy is working on. This is  simply a cover for his real mission, to recover a stolen book of ancient  magic, which contains the secret to the Elements illusion. It is one that  he has never mastered, due to his claustrophobia. It is an escape act that  requires him to be bound in darkness, his greatest fear. Joy is suspected  to be in cahoots with the smuggler.<br />He tells himself he is not there to  rekindle things with Joy he is there to keep an eye on her and recover the  book. Her barn is a convenient place to rehearse his act and Joy is in need  of a farm hand. He finds himself living in her caretaker's cottage. The old  chemistry is still at work though, and try as he might, Zeus can't seem to  keep the pair apart. Hera steps in before Zeus makes a total mess of  things. But just when things appear to be straightened out, the couple  realizes that they can't give the other what they need most. Can the two  \\"gods\\" help Joy to find her wings with Mark, or Mark to find his roots with  Joy? Will Hera finally forgive Zeus?<br />I liked this book a lot because the  author respected the reader and didn't take the easy way out with the  ending. Compromise is the order of the day and one feels certain everything  will work out fine. She also gave us some lovely side characters, who have  definite possibilities for the continuation of the series, and a truly  despicable villain as well.  All in all it was a fun read.~ .......	2000-06-05
US	52852796	R1U1X797MJ6Q9B	0671041738	28834548	Forbidden Garden (Sonnet Books)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Intriquing Mendelian Little Shop of Horrors	Tracy Fobes continues to broaden the scope of romantic fiction with this innovative new novel for the thinking woman with romantic entertainment that stimulates the mind.  It is a love story of two lonely misfits trying to find their niche in a world that doesn't understand them. It is also a  dark fantasy that will leave you pondering the question: When does altruism  become fanaticism? When do the ends cease to justify the means?<br />The story  is set for the most part in Ireland during the Victorian Era (1860). The  heroine is Mrs. Anne Sherwood, a young English widow. Though she'd settled  for an arranged marriage, the naive girl had expected to be loved. Soon  finding that area of the marriage lacking, she contented herself with  assisting her husband with his work. She had served as his secretary,  copier, and illustrator for his  `Encyclopedia of Flowering Plants'.  She  is particularly talented at illustration and had hoped for recognition  among scientific circles.  Her dreams were dashed when she found that her  husband had taken sole credit for her work.<br />Anne has acquired a position  as a botanical illustrator at Kew Gardens. She assumes an austere  appearance, drab clothing and severe hairstyles, with hopes of finally  being taken seriously.  Though her work is remarkable, most are of the  opinion that she is merely mimicking her late husband's work.<br />The hero  is Mr. Michael McEvoy. Michael had spent his early years poor but happy on  his parent's farm in Connaught.  Orphaned, while still a lad, by the potato  famine that swept Ireland, he was sent to a workhouse. Not even his spirit  was fed there. He runs away and spends the rest of his growing years living  in the wild. Michael's time in the wild has imbued him with a rare  knowledge of plant life and their needs.  He was later discovered by Lord  Connock, a collector of rare plant species, and now serves as his  naturalist.<br />Lord Connock has also learned of Anne's talent for  illustration. He invites her to Ireland and offers her a position, drawing  his newly acquired plant life.  Anne seeking an opportunity to finally  achieve recognition for her work; accepts.<br />She encounters Michael for the  first time at an inn not far from her destination.  On the way she'd been  frightened by a strange rustling sound and odd ivy that seems to \\"grab\\" her  ankle.  Michael doesn't find Anne's drab attire very appealing, but soon  learns there is more to Anne than meets the eye.<br />Oh yes Anne has secrets!  She is also blessed with the gift of seeing plant auras. The colors  indicate the general health of the plants. In this manner Anne can sense  their needs and is disturbed by the distress radiated by the plants in Lord  Connock's forest.  Michael is intrigued by her perceptiveness, though she  won't explain how she comes by her knowledge. He is in tune with nature due  to his background, but Anne is city-bred.  She is an appealing mystery.  As  events unfold Michael becomes very protective of Anne and more than a  little attracted.<br />Both notice that something is not right with Lord  Connock's supposed plant species. Further encounters with that odd  disappearing ivy, mysterious animal deaths, human afflictions, and a number  of locked greenhouses lead the two to become investigators. Just what is  Lord Connock hiding inside that particularly malodorous one, where strange  light and terrifying sounds are emitted?<br />Lord Connock hopes to create an  ultimate hybrid that will save the world from ever facing starvation again.  He had lost own wife to the famine and is most committed to the cause.  Can  the pair turn a blind eye to the mysterious occurrences and be grateful for  their positions? Will Anne ever trust Michael with her secret?  If she does  will he scoff or believe?<br />The tension and suspense in this novel is  marvelous. The romance is a tender tale about two people who, due to their  pasts, are afraid to love. They are deeply attracted to each other but  their goals are incompatible. They know their parting is inevitable, but  can they be happy apart? What will the future hold for a woman who must  live in London to travel to achieve the recognition she craves and a man  who wants nothing more than to once again find a home on a little farm in  Connaught?  Ah but then they say home is where the heart is, perhaps it's  true. A little Irish magic goes a long way.<br />I found this story  fascinating, a real page-turner. Highly recommended. --Leslie Tramposchattracted to each other but  their goals are incompatible. They know their parting is inevitable, but  can they be happy apart? What will the future hold for a woman who must  live in London to travel to achieve the recognition she craves and a man  who wants nothing more than to once again find a home on a little farm in  Connaught?   Ah but then they say home is where the heart is, perhaps it's  true. A little Irish magic goes a long way.<br />I found this story  fascinating, a real page-turner. Highly recommended. --Leslie Tramposch	2000-05-22
US	52852796	R319MEIXBEKYGM	0505523078	532873024	Virtual Heaven (Perfect Heroes Series)	Books	5	2	5	N	N	I would like credit for this review	This was a private review I had writen last year. I would like it to be credited to my public review area -- thanks.<br />L.N. Tramposch l_tramposch@yahoo.com<br />Virtually Heaven!   June 8, 1999     Reviewer: A customer from Pittsburgh, PA    I'm one of those people who  reads the end of a novel first. Satisfied with the ending I begin, but this  novel was too clever for that. Was I surprised. Maggie O'Brien was  everything I wanted in a hero, strong, faithful, brave. Kered, the hero was  a delightful enigma, a medieval warrior who wished only for peace, a member  of the elite, yet he trusts his life and his heart to a slave. I love the  twist the story takes when Maggie is sent back prematurely, could fall in  love with Derek myself and the word play was a revelation. I haven't been  surprised by a book in a long time and I was delighted. Vad was the perfect  side-kick and I look forward to his story. Awesome first book for Ann  Lawrence!	2000-05-22
US	52852796	RKD6DCKUMLT0B	0515126837	679728732	A Matter of Time (Time Passages)	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Brought Laughter, Tears, and Sighs - Excellent!	The MacKendimen saga comes full circle with this stunning conclusion to the two part series that began with &quot;A LOVE THROUGH TIME&quot;.  Dr. Douglas MacKendimen (30 year old son of Maggie and Alex - ALTT) is once  again in Scotland for the annual clan gathering. This has been a family  tradition, since his parents met there and fell in love with the help of  the fates and a magical stone arch.  Douglas has grown up on his parents  tales, but regards them as nothing more than &quot;bedtime stories&quot;.<br />Of late he's been troubled by two dreams, each involving the same  mysterious woman, a woman like none other, a woman he's never met.  One  dream is frightening, the other erotic, and Douglas can't help but compare  all others to the &quot;woman of his dreams&quot;, he's waiting for  something, what? he doesn't know.<br />The clan seer, the old woman Mairi who  was instrumental in his parent's own journey of discovery, tells him that  he must now meet his destiny, which will involve saving this  woman, and  being saved by her, and answering to the fates, which are not pleased with  him.<br />He scoffs but a woman's cry of distress finds him dashing through  the arch, to find her under attack by a rival clan. Without hesitation he  acts to save her. At the very moment he recognizes her as the woman he has  dreamed of, he's rendered unconscious by a severe blow to the head.<br />The  woman is Caitlin, the 17 year old daughter of Moira, the visionary who had  helped Maggie and Alex during their journey through time, and the smithy  Pol.  Caitlin too, has had the dreams, of this man, the man she knows she  will love with all her heart.  She is the clan healer, an herbalist, but  she also has a &quot;gift&quot; - the ability to cure with her touch.  The  gift has its price for Caitlin assumes her patients' pain.<br />Douglas is  awed by the care she has for her patients and the sacrifices she is willing  to make for them. Why have the fates sent him here when any involvement  will surely end in heartbreak when returns home as prophesied? He soon  comes to realize that he has defied the fates by immersing himself in  technology and shielding himself from his patients suffering. He's  forgotten to care.  He was conceived in this time through his parent's  great love for each other, their very own lesson, and he realizes he's been  sent back to the place where HIS soul began to find it once more. But in  finding his soul will he lose his heart?  What will become of him and of  Caitlin when he is sent back home, having learned the lesson of the fates?  Will these few short weeks be  enough to last them a lifetime? Can the  fates be defied?<br />I cried at the end of this story, but don't let that  put you off, I loved both stories and the saga ends happily, never you  fear.  I highly recommend reading both books and there's a little surprise  at the end of this one that I think you will enjoy.<br />I've also learned  that there is the possibility of a straight historical featuring Anice, who  appears in both stories, and Robert who succeeded his half brother Sandy as  laird to the MacKendimen clan in the past time.  It is to be hoped that  this is truly so, as I think it is a story that needs to be told! Ms.  Brisbin will give us a new tale with the September release of the Queen's  Man. I'm greatly looking forward to reading more of this fine author's  efforts. -- Leslie Tramposch Copyright © 2000 ~Paranormal Romance Reviewsen any involvement  will surely end in heartbreak when returns home as prophesied? He soon  comes to realize that he has defied the fates by immersing himself in  technology and shielding himself from his patients suffering. He's  forgotten to care.  He was conceived in this time through his parent's  great love for each other, their very own lesson, and he realizes he's been  sent back to the place where HIS soul began to find it once more. But in  finding his soul will he lose his heart?  What will become of him and of  Caitlin when he is sent back home, having learned the lesson of the fates?  Will these few short weeks be  enough to last them a lifetime? Can the  fates be defied? <br />I cried at the end of this story, but don't let that  put you off, I loved both stories and the saga ends happily, never you  fear.  I highly recommend reading both books and there's a little surprise  at the end of this one that I think you will enjoy. <br />I've also learned  that there is the possibility of a straight historical featuring Anice, who  appears in both stories, and Robert who succeeded his half brother Sandy as  laird to the MacKendimen clan in the past time.  It is to be hoped that  this is truly so, as I think it is a story that needs to be told! Ms.  Brisbin will give us a new tale with the September release of the Queen's  Man. I'm greatly looking forward to reading more of this fine author's  efforts. -- Leslie Tramposch Copyright © 2000 ~Paranormal Romance Reviews	2000-05-19
US	52852796	R3LD1IFP7UV5AC	0505523736	998656292	Heaven's Hero (Romance of the Millennium)	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Tortured Hero regains  his Faith - Lots of fun!	This is the second book in Ms. Shannon's Heaven series. It takes place in our time shortly after Dom and Honor (the hero/heroine of Heaven's Rogue) are spirited back to Renaissance Italy.  Time has progressed six years in  there, to 1505. Dom and Honor are the parents of two lovely children, a  young daughter who is very ill, and small son.<br />The present:<br />Former  Police officer Nick Escavido (a major side character in Heaven's Rogue) no  longer believes in heroes. He'd followed his conscience and it has cost him  his wife, his job, and his faith in the system and in God. No, Nick doesn't  believe in angels either, though his brother Ernie insists he's seen one.  Their other roommate, Dom's descendant Rafe, could back Ernie up but he  doesn't want to talk about it.<br />In spite of everything Nick has still  has a good heart. He is his younger brother's self-appointed protector.  Ernie is a scholar not a fighter and who because of his alternative  lifestyle and slighter build is an easy victim.  Nick is worried about  Ernie delusions and is on the brink of getting professional help for  him.<br />Ernie has been having troublesome dreams regarding Honor.  She is  pleading to him for help.  Her daughter is gravely ill.  Isabella, the  chatelaine of Castello di Giovanni has attempted to heal the child with her  herbal remedies, to no avail.  Honor is depending on Ernie to find a way to  deliver modern medicines to this day gone by.<br />Ernie has spent his entire  inheritance on a \\"magic\\" mirror and Nick is deeply worried.  His worry  turns to shock and wonder as an angel appears and the mirror changes shape.  His brother leaps in eagerly and Nick is not fast enough to prevent it.  Nick is at a loss as to what to do, but the angel allows him to see what is  about to occur. Ernie is in grave danger. Poor Ernie is about to be run to  ground by a knight on horseback sporting a large lance.  Without  hesitation, Nick does what come naturally. He follows to defend his  brother.<br />Renaissance Italy 1505:<br />Imagine Nicks surprise when he unseats  the knight to find not a ferocious warrior but a stunning young woman. He  is even more surprised at the instant chemistry between them. Isabella has  enemies though, and is not inclined to trust him.  Because of her  friendship with Honor and Dom and her love for their sick daughter, she  takes Nick and Ernie to see them.  This makes a believer out of Nick but he  still doesn't want to be a hero. Heaven, however, has a different plan.  Ernie is in his element in this age of enlightenment.<br />Even after her  friends vouch for the brothers, Isabella is not sure she wants to trust  Nick. He is still a threat - to her independence!<br />Isabella Catherine  Giovanni is a woman born ahead of her time. She is strong and independent.  She alone has protected her lands and her younger brother from the threat  of Luccio Landucci an ally of the hated de Medicis.  Landucci is power  hungry and evil. He will stop at nothing to acquire Giovanni lands and  Isabella. Isabella has no wish to be a man's possession. She does not  expect to ever wed, but if she did it would be to a man could view her as  his equal. She does not believe such a man exists. Nick inspires altogether  different feelings in her.  He seems to respect her but his protective  instincts could be an obstacle to a relationship. Nick knows he must soon  return to his own time and begins to wonder if Isabella could be happy with  him there. Before Isabella can give him her complete trust, another  occurrence makes the decision for her. For the two to be truly happy Nick  must learn to believe in heaven, heroes, and the power of love.<br />I enjoyed  this story very much. It was a very complete story but left room for a  third story about Dom's descendant Rafe who did not appear much in the  story but showed a definite uneasiness about the mirror in Ernie's room,  and he's also been restless of late. I hope Ms. Shannon will writea story  for him. I love big tough, vulnerable heroes and Rafe has definite  potential. Besides I think he need to be a hero again to feel good about  himself. I have heard whispers of a possible futuristic tale for him, so  keep you fingers crossed.write a story  for him. I love big tough, vulnerable heroes and Rafe has definite  potential. Besides I think he need to be a hero again to feel good about  himself. I have heard whispers of a possible futuristic tale for him, so  keep you fingers crossed.	2000-05-19
US	52852796	R1SFO7Y3ZAJCKJ	0451199979	234694502	Devilish	Books	5	10	12	N	N	More Satisfying than one could have imagined!	While I loved all the Malloren tales, Rothgar's story ran as a thread throughout the saga, for he is the backbone of this family. I opened this book with great anticipation and much trepidation. Jo's excellent track  record not withstanding, there is always the potential for great  disappointment when one has had to wait so long for a much desired story.  Had Diana had to win Rothgar's love, or had he discovered after great peril  that he couldn't live without her, I would have been sorely disappointed.  Mallorens choose, they can't be won, and once having chosen they are as  constant as the sun. However the two acknowledged their feelings from the  start. The battle is within Rothgar himself to conquer his demons (as it  should have been). I found myself saying &quot;exactly&quot; repeatedly. I  also loved that Rothgar has finally become Bey, an approachable human man  with frailties like every other human being, though it doesn't by any means  diminish him as the &quot;eminence noire&quot;. Brilliantly handled, if  ever I doubted for a minute that the characters talk to Jo, I will not make  that mistake twice!<br />Someone wants Rothgar dead. An uneasy peace hangs  between the British and the French. Bey finds himself a part of a contrived  duel to avenge an insult to Chastity Malloren (Cyn's wife). Bey and Bryght  suspect the expert duelist is in league with the French who would benefit  by putting him out of commission for the Marquess has the ear of the king  in these matters. His advice does not coincide with their plans in the  least. Having dispatched the offender, the family prepares to attend the  wedding of Brand and Rosa in Yorkshire where Rothgar is once more brought  into the sphere of the Countess Arradale, Diana.<br />No fool, Rothgar has  acknowledged his attraction to the countess but as he has firm intentions  never to marry (due to his mother's madness) he has wisely limited his stay  to three days. Diana for her part is just as determined to remain free of  entanglements, though she is just as intrigued by the enigmatic Marquess. A  missive from the king, commanding Rothgar to escort Diana to court, thwarts  their good intentions. The very thing that makes Diana Bey's equal has won  her disfavor with the king. In the unique position of being a female peer  of the realm she has petitioned the king for the right to hold her seat  Parliament. This has alerted the king to her \\"unnatural\\" leanings and he is  determined to wed her to someone who will keep her in line. Bey advises  Diana to act the proper young lady for fear she will be thought mad if she  expresses her true nature but promises to support her to the point of  offering a marriage in name only if the situation becomes untenable. By now  Diana is aware that her feelings for Bey run deep and is certain they are  reciprocated. She agrees to follow his advice for though a true marriage to  the man would be heaven; a marriage in which they would lead separate lives  would truly be hell.<br />Those good intentions are thwarted as well as the  plot continues to remove Rothgar from the king's sphere. They are attacked  along the road. The attack is not unexpected, however the situation  requires Diana to use her considerable skill with pistols to save the life  of her beloved. Shaken by the encounter the drop their guard and celebrate  life in the time-honored manner. The armor cracks a bit more.<br />It had  seemed that the king had accepted the Marquess's determination never to  marry, but once Diana arrives at court she is plied with unacceptable  suitors and it becomes obvious that the king wishes a match between Diana  and Bey.  The king has put a deadline on her choice of mate. She must  choose immediately following a masquerade thrown by the Marquess. Should  she fail to choose he would choose for her.  Diana does her best to ensure  that Bey is not ensnared in the trap, but she relishes his visits and he  cannot seem to stay away. To deflect attention she inadvertently over  encourages one of her suitors who unwittingly becomes caught up in the plot  to eliminate Rothgar. She is kidnapped. Bey barely rescues her in time.  Another chink in the armor.<br />It has become apparent to Bey that he can not  let Diana go to another but an incident at the Queen's house reinforces his  fears about his suitability to father the next heir to the Malloren  line.<br />The plot shifts to his internal struggle.  He retreats into himself  and as the masquerade begins his family is greatly worried for him.  Will  this man of power and courage find the strength to let his heart rule his  head? As the event begins Diana searches the room for him, but he finds  her. It appears as if all that is well will end well, but it is too much to  ask that the French will not make a move this night.  Will love make the  Marquess vulnerable or strong? Will Bey's strong protective streak cost the  pair their hard fought happiness or will Diana risk all to defend her  beloved?<br />This was a marvelous ending to Rothgar's story but hopefully not  the last we see of the Mallorens. Young Victor Ware (brother of Fort,  Verity, and Chastity) is due to arrive home from his Grand Tour. Dare we  hope he will be hero material? It was a true delight to find at last that  Rothgar has found the love he so richly deserved and with a woman who  deserved him. \\"The gods were indeed exceedingly kind!\\" --Leslie Tramposch  Copyright © 2000 ~ Paranormal Romance Reviews (Not Paranormal, but Too Good  to Miss)ntion she inadvertently over  encourages one of her suitors who unwittingly becomes caught up in the plot  to eliminate Rothgar. She is kidnapped. Bey barely rescues her in time.  Another chink in the armor.<br />It has become apparent to Bey that he can not  let Diana go to another but an incident at the Queen's house reinforces his  fears about his suitability to father the next heir to the Malloren  line.<br />The plot shifts to his internal struggle.  He retreats into himself  and as the masquerade begins his family is greatly worried for him.  Will  this man of power and courage find the strength to let his heart rule his  head? As the event begins Diana searches the room for him, but he finds  her. It appears as if all that is well will end well, but it is too much to  ask that the French will not make a move this night.  Will love make the  Marquess vulnerable or strong? Will Bey's strong protective streak cost the  pair their hard fought happiness or will Diana risk all to defend her  beloved?<br />This was a marvelous ending to Rothgar's story but hopefully not  the last we see of the Mallorens. Young Victor Ware (brother of Fort,  Verity, and Chastity) is due to arrive home from his Grand Tour. Dare we  hope he will be hero material? It was a true delight to find at last that  Rothgar has found the love he so richly deserved and with a woman who  deserved him. \\"The gods were indeed exceedingly kind!\\" --Leslie Tramposch  Copyright © 2000 ~ Paranormal Romance Reviews (Not Paranormal, but Too Good  to Miss)	2000-05-19
US	52852796	R3CTVB8S3X5RL5	0505523302	21482417	Dark Prince (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 1)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Trendsetting, Award Winning, Stunning Debut	I only wish there was a 6 star rating to be given. Ms. Feehan is exceptional.  Dark Prince incredible first novel and a definite trend setter. Christine has put a new twist on Vampire legend with her dark  Carpathians. This novel won Ms. Feehan three P.E.A.R.L. awards - for Best  New Author, Best Shapeshifter, and Best Paranormal for 1999. I highly  recommend the entire series.<br />The Carpathian's are a separate species of  beings. The have special abilities such as superior strength and the shapes  shifting. They require blood for nourishment but only kill when they're own  lives are in peril.  For males of the species their longevity is both a  blessing and a curse. After a century or two the males lose the ability to  see colors or to feel emotion. The only cure is to find their life-mate,  the light to their darkness.  Only by bonding to this life-mate can  sensation be restored to the men. Those who can not bear the wait must  choose to seek the sun or become that which is hated by humans and  Carpathian's alike, the Vampire. For these lost souls the kill is like a  drug which gives them a temporary rush of feeling.<br />The situation is  becoming desperate for the Carpathian race, women are scarce, nearly all of  the children born are male and only a few of these survive infancy.<br />Mikhail Dubrinsky, prince of the Carpathians is the most ancient of all  his people. Carpathians don't age as human's do, he appears young and  handsome, and devastated. He has held out longer than any Carpathian male  but can no longer bear the darkness of his existence. He is contemplating  giving himself to the dawn when a voice touches his mind and his life is  forever changed.  He is barraged with and excess of color and emotion. How  can this be?<br />It had been a mere myth perpetrated by humans that victims  of vampires could be turned to become one.  As desperate as the Carpathians  have become, it had been tried. All of the women had become mad. Yet the  sympathetic voice within his mind is a human female. How can she be his  life-mate?<br />Raven is a young American woman of psychic ability. It is this  trait, which may be the key to the survival of the Carpathian race. Raven  is vacationing in the Carpathian Mountains.  She has been employed as a  hunter of serial killers. She needs to erase the foul taint of the  murderers thoughts from her mind when she senses a man in deep despair. He  is contemplating taking his life. She cannot allow that.<br />Mikhail cannot  resist going to her and though she is frightened of him, she finds him  irresistible. Generally she avoids contact with others. Their voices clamor  in her head, their touch brings physical pain. Not so with Mikhail who  takes her pain away and threatens anyone who even inadvertently harms  her.<br />Among the humans staying at the inn are fanatical vampire hunters.  They have already claimed one victim, Mikhail's sister, Noelle.  Mikhail  suspects that one of the crafty undead is behind the movement.  Mikhail  with his superior talents and Raven with her psychic abilities become a  team to end this madness. Through blood exchange for injuries sustained  Mikhail inadvertently converts Raven, a torturous process.  Raven survives  is appalled by the change, but it soon becomes apparent that as a true  life-mate she cannot be parted from Mikhail.<br />The successful conversion  brings new hope to the Carpathian males. Psychic human women may be the key  to the race's survival. When Raven becomes a pawn of the vampire everything  must be done to save her life or the risk of losing their Prince will  become inevitable. It is the obligation of every Carpathian male to put the  Prince's life before there own. Here we get our first true glimpse of the  personality of Mikhail's brother Jacques prior to his own story - Dark  Desire.<br />This story is intense and sensual. The relationship between  life-mates transcends that of of mankind.  Highly recommended. Look for  Dark Desire, Dark Gold, and the soon to be released Dark Magic.Dark Desire, Dark Gold, and the soon to be released Dark Magic.	2000-05-19
US	52852796	RUVE0LQ5847YN	0505523752	574473600	Dark Gold (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 3)	Books	5	3	6	N	N	A New twist from a very versatile author	Nearly another quarter of a century has elapsed (since Dark Desire) and the Carpathian plight is little changed.  The race is facing extinction. The woman are scarce, the few surviving children male.  The hope for the  future lies in those rare human women with true psychic ability who are  able to survive the conversion process and become lifemates.<br />A previous  attempt to depose the Dark Prince having failed, the vampires have  dispersed to the far corners of the earth.  The hunters have been forced to  follow, leaving their beloved homeland and it's healing soil behind. Aidan  Savage is one such man.  An intimate of the Prince, he is a master hunter  charged with the task of ridding the New World of the deadly menace.  His  soul is at risk however for, without a lifemate, each kill brings him  closer to turning himself.  His home base of San Francisco has recently  been invaded by a band of five vampires. He has yet to stop the killing  spree. He must hunt.<br />Aidan is unique in several ways. He is fair in  color, a trait that he shares with his reclusive brother Julian. He also  he has a loyal human family who care for his home and protect him during  the vulnerable daylight hours.  This second quirk will later become  invaluable to him.<br />Alexandra Houton is a young woman in her twenties. She  is the sole guardian of her six-year-old brother and a talented graphic  artist. This last fact has not escaped the notice of the foremost creator  of vampire video games. Excited about the prospect of this highly desirable  career move and the hope of creating a better life for her small sibling,  Alex agrees to an evening interview at a local restaurant.  Unable to leave  her young brother at home alone, she leaves him to wait outside with a  kindly indigent of their acquaintance.  Shortly into the meeting it becomes  clear that the wealthy employer is interested in more than Alex's artistic  skills. Taking a moment to check on her brother, Alex finds his protector  brutally slain.  The killer is a creature the likes of whom she has never  seen. Attempting to prevent her mesmerized brother from reaching the demon,  Alex, the true prize, is captured and spirited away to the entrance of the  demon's lair.  The vampire has recognized Alex's lifemate potential and  hopes to claim her for himself. He performs two brutal blood exchanges  before chaining her to a wall at the mouth of the cave. He does not trust  her to know of his lair, where he will lay vulnerable while the sun is in  the sky.  As the level of seawater in the cave rises the elements take  their toll on Alex so that she is unrecognizable by nightfall.<br />Night is  upon them and Aidan has discovered the whereabouts of the vampire.  After a  brief battle he dispatches the betrayer. He then turns to the crazed  vampiress (Alex) of the evil one's creation. She is clutching a small human  child.  Aidan attempts to destroy her before she can slay the child but in  the process discovers that the blood surrounding him appears to be red.  Sensations burst upon him. The woman is no vampiress, but his true lifemate  and she is dying. He must save her at any cost.<br />The cost is further blood  exchange which triggers the conversion process. Aidan regrets that this has  occurred without her consent, but he was left with no choice.  The  vampires' treatment of her and the battle she witnessed between him and  Aidan has fostered distrust of him. She cannot distinguish the difference  between Carpathian and vampire. She wants no parts of this creature who  would possess her and despises what she has become.  She rebels against  him, but even as she struggles to maintain her independence, in an effort  to retain her humanity, the bond strengthens. Aidan is stunned by Alex's  loveliness and even more taken aback by her affect on other men.  Though he  is aware that the bond between them is unbreakable he must struggle to win  her trust and her heart.<br />Four vampires remain.  It is clear to the pair  that the humans they love are their Achilles heel, that the vampires will  undoubtedly strike at them through their family.  Will Aidan be able to  convince Alex that they are each other's destiny?  Will they combine their  strengths to fight the menace that plagues them? Will they succeed?<br />Aidan  meets briefly with Gregori, who awaits his lifemate's arrival here. Gregori  is walking the edge, having given her the freedom to grow before claiming  her. Her identity indicates that the union between those special human  women and the Carpathian males is indeed the solution they were hoping for  to continue the race. It is a perfect lead-in to the next title in the  series, Dark Magic which is Grigori's story.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this  story. This was the first time a human lifemate had an actual family member  to contend with. One wonders how the pair will handle this as the boy grows  older and they remain the same.  At some point the child will have to be  let in on the secret.  It will be difficult for Alex not to be the major  part of his life that she wants to be, and it will be even harder to watch  him age.  It is a testament to Ms. Feehan's writing ability that she is  able to deal with such hard-hitting issues with such aplomb.  I am really  looking forward to the next installment due to be released in late summer.  --Leslie Tramposch, Copyright © 2000 ~Paranormal Romance Reviewsemain.  It is clear to the pair  that the humans they love are their Achilles heel, that the vampires will  undoubtedly strike at them through their family.  Will Aidan be able to  convince Alex that they are each other's destiny?  Will they combine their  strengths to fight the menace that plagues them? Will they succeed?<br />Aidan  meets briefly with Gregori, who awaits his lifemate's arrival here. Gregori  is walking the edge, having given her the freedom to grow before claiming  her. Her identity indicates that the union between those special human  women and the Carpathian males is indeed the solution they were hoping for  to continue the race. It is a perfect lead-in to the next title in the  series, Dark Magic which is Grigori's story.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this  story. This was the first time a human lifemate had an actual family member  to contend with. One wonders how the pair will handle this as the boy grows  older and they remain the same.  At some point the child will have to be  let in on the secret.  It will be difficult for Alex not to be the major  part of his life that she wants to be, and it will be even harder to watch  him age.  It is a testament to Ms. Feehan's writing ability that she is  able to deal with such hard-hitting issues with such aplomb.  I am really  looking forward to the next installment due to be released in late summer.  --Leslie Tramposch, Copyright © 2000 ~Paranormal Romance Reviews	2000-05-19
US	52852796	R3KWPIXZFA5LUJ	0671775251	906716141	A Merry Chase (Sonnet Books)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Delicious and delightfully funny from start to finish!	This is by far Ms. Malvey's best book yet. The hero and heroine are well matched for spirit and wits. I couldn't put it down or stop laughing!<br />Royce van Cleef, Earl of Tewkbury, if extremely gifted. He is  handsome, charming, and very, very lucky....at least at games of chance.  Blissfully unattached he observes his friends' awkward attempts to woo  their beloveds with great amuzement. He compares winning a mate to a fox  hunt and advised studied observation as the obvious tactic for a successful  campaign.<br />Is it any wonder that his friends want to take him down a peg.  Knowing their cocky friend can't resist a sure thing they propose a wager.  Royce must woo and win a woman of their chosing using his own technique.  Royce hadn't considered marriage but he must produce an heir sooner or  later, so he gamely accepts. He is wise enough to stipulate that the lady  of choice must meet his criteria for an acceptable partner. He is greatly  relieved that the woman they choose is Lady Laurel Simmons. She is lovely  and well suited to his title. There is just one catch.<br />Lady Laurel has no  use for men whatsoever. She'd been jilted once in favor of a minor  inheritance and is determined never to risk her heart again. Neither the  friends nor Laurel had counted on Royce's considerable charm. When it  appears he is winning all too easily, his friends up the ante by  &quot;accidentally&quot; tiping Laurel's best friend off to the  wager.<br />Horrified at being duped a second time Laurel doesn't get mad, she  gets even! Laurel spreads the word about the wager throughout the ton,  omitting the name of the lady involved. Poor Royce finds himself inundated  with hopeful debutants. In fact everyone seems to view him as the catch of  the season. Everyone but the one he wants.<br />The moves and counter moves  are hilarious, until Royce realizes that this is no longer a game. All to  late he finds that he has more to lose than a simple wager. If he doesn't  find a way to make amends he will lose the only woman he has ever loved.  Now Royce must persue Laurel in ernest. But can he ever regain her  trust?<br />Complications include the mechanizations of Royce's mother who  opposes the match, the return of Laurel's faithless fiance', and a scorned  debutante bent on revenge. The story concludes in a dramatic manner as  befits this amusing tale.<br />Ms. Malvey gets better and better. I highly  recommend this delightful Regency romp.<br />Leslie Tramposch ~ UReviewITto make amends he will lose the only woman he has ever loved.  Now Royce must persue Laurel in ernest. But can he ever regain her  trust?<br />Complications include the mechanizations of Royce's mother who  opposes the match, the return of Laurel's faithless fiance', and a scorned  debutante bent on revenge. The story concludes in a dramatic manner as  befits this amusing tale.<br />Ms. Malvey gets better and better. I highly  recommend this delightful Regency romp.<br />Leslie Tramposch ~ UReviewIT	2000-05-18
US	52852796	R1IRVHGF1PRI5J	0451407806	36208249	Something Wicked	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Wicked Pleasure	I thoroughly enjoy the work of best-selling author Jo Beverley. Something Wicked the third of five in this Georgian series about the Malloren family is not only my favorite book of the series; it is my favorite Beverley book  over-all.<br />Lady Elf Malloren 25, and her twin Lord Cynric are the youngest  of the Malloren siblings. Her only sister Hilda, two years her senior, had  been safely married off in her teens. Somewhat wilder for being allowed to  join in her twins adventures Elf finds herself on the shelf. No doubt some  of this is due to her over protective older brothers, least of which is the  imposing Marquee of Rothgar. At times Elf has found their hovering a bit  stifling.<br />When the opportunity presents itself Elf takes fate into her  own hands. Her twin has just married the scandalous Chastity Ware and her  remaining siblings are all away from home. She attends a masquerade at Vaux  Hall hoping for some excitement. While wondering one of the secluded paths  designated for clandestine meetings she overhears a dastardly plot. She is  discovered and pursued, her only recourse is to trust herself to the care  of the one man who has reason to hate her family most.<br />Fortitude Ware has  no love for anything Malloren.  We get a glimpse of his cruel upbringing in  My Lady Notorious the first book of the Malloren series. His sister's  marriage to Elf's twin has not softened his attitude. In fact it is at  their wedding that he is forced into an action that makes him hate the  Mallorens with a passion.<br />The reader gets the impression that Elf has  always been intrigued by Fort and as she puts it, it is not surprising that  twins should have similar tastes. She had gotten into the habit of baiting  him at every meeting.<br />The masked Elf introduces herself as Lisette,  knowing Fort would have nothing to do with her if he knew of her true  identity. Fort, intrigued by her audacity, rescues her and offers her a  tantalizing proposition as he is currently without a mistress. Elf manages  to elude his attentions but then has second thoughts.  If she is to die and  old maid, she would take one night in the arms of the man she desperately  wants. She claims a night of passion with the Earl of her dreams but  insists on remaining masked.<br />Fort indulges her. Their night of love  becomes perilous as the two are captured in their sleep by those Elf had  overheard plotting treason.  They awaken imprisoned in a dark basement with  no means of escape. Not knowing their fate, Fort bares his soul to the  woman he is already becoming deeply attracted to. Danger fuels their  passion as well.<br />Their rescue is both a blessing as a curse for Fort  learns of the identity of his lover. He is furious at being duped and  devastated at exposing his vulnerability to his enemy.<br />The treasonous  plot proceeds with both Mallorens and Ware playing heroes. Fort is injured  and during his convalescense Elf does everything within her means to win  him over. His pride will not allow it, though deep down he's softened a  bit. He determines to marry another, anyone suitable, rather examime his  turbulent feelings for Elf. Even Elf's brothers will do nothing to aid her  in her battle. Rothgar goes as far as to lecture her on the perils of using  people.<br />Though she cannot believe that she could love so deeply and not  have the love returned, she concludes that loving Fort means putting his  happiness above her own. She resigns herself to letting him find his own  way even if it means she will lose him.  Will the next masquerade determine  her fate?<br />I do so love a dark and wounded hero. This story was pure  wicked pleasure.ntly without a mistress. Elf manages  to elude his attentions but then has second thoughts.  If she is to die and  old maid, she would take one night in the arms of the man she desperately  wants. She claims a night of passion with the Earl of her dreams but  insists on remaining masked.<br />Fort indulges her. Their night of love  becomes perilous as the two are captured in their sleep by those Elf had  overheard plotting treason.  They awaken imprisoned in a dark basement with  no means of escape. Not knowing their fate, Fort bares his soul to the  woman he is already becoming deeply attracted to. Danger fuels their  passion as well. <br />Their rescue is both a blessing as a curse for Fort  learns of the identity of his lover. He is furious at being duped and  devastated at exposing his vulnerability to his enemy.<br />The treasonous  plot proceeds with both Mallorens and Ware playing heroes. Fort is injured  and during his convalescense Elf does everything within her means to win  him over. His pride will not allow it, though deep down he's softened a  bit. He determines to marry another, anyone suitable, rather examime his  turbulent feelings for Elf. Even Elf's brothers will do nothing to aid her  in her battle. Rothgar goes as far as to lecture her on the perils of using  people.<br />Though she cannot believe that she could love so deeply and not  have the love returned, she concludes that loving Fort means putting his  happiness above her own. She resigns herself to letting him find his own  way even if it means she will lose him.  Will the next masquerade determine  her fate? <br />I do so love a dark and wounded hero. This story was pure  wicked pleasure.	2000-05-18
US	52852796	RPBKXB9BW03IU	051512804X	190770143	Silver Rain (Magical Love)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A Fairy tale come true!	Alain Devereaux watches all his dreams shatter as the love of his life is run down in the street in front of the church in which they were to wed. She dies in his arms and he wants to die too.<br />Odette Bishop a dear  friend of both Alain and his beloved Brigette, has other plans for Alain.  She had once told them that the two were meant to be together, if not in  this life then in the next. Odette believe she knows of a way to bring  these souls together once more. The way is not without risk as Alain must  ingest a potion that will put him in a sleep that until the time in which  Brigette is reborn into a new life and becomes old enough to wed. At that  time Alain must not only find her within a thirty day period, he must win  her love once more. Should he fail, he would simply cease to exist.<br />The  female descendants of Odette's family shall watch over his sleeping form  til that fateful day arrives.<br />Dani Curtis in only one in a long line of  women who have been cursed with the guardianship of the &quot;Sleeping  Beau&quot;. If she had her way she'd put him out of his misery in short  order. Dani has watched her parents marriage fail, and had had to sacrifice  her own olympic dreams because of her &quot;inheritance&quot;.  Now her  fiance' has defected. Enough is enough.  Dani is seriously contemplating  giving Alain a taste of the pain he's cost her when she detects movement.  The time has arrived, now all she has to do is find Alain's soul mate and  she can be rid of this odious responsibility on just 30 days.<br />Easier said  than done? You'd think so. Alain awakens to a totally bewildering world but  is irritable and impatient as one would expect. He wants results -  yesterday. Luck is on their side when Alain spots Brigette's double on that  mysterious box in the living room with the moving pictures. Oh my, she's a  famous movies star and they have to find a way to meet her and make her  fall in love with Alain.<br />Meeting her takes a litte Wiccan magic, but  making the woman fall for Alain takes only a little charm. So why are both  Alain and Dani unhappy?<br />Dani has fallen for Alain but to have him would  surely mean his death. Alain is completely confused by his deep attraction  to Dani while he feels nothing for &quot;Brigette&quot;.<br />Ms. Sheridan's  well known humor comes into play with her side character McKenna, an off  beat fellow Wiccan who is Dani's best friend. The woman bends over  backwards to get these to &quot;see&quot; with their hearts with hilarious  results.<br />A great twist on a favorite fairy story. Readers will enjoy this  tale of magical love.<br />-- Leslie Tramposch ~ Paranormal Romance ReviewsWiccan magic, but  making the woman fall for Alain takes only a little charm. So why are both  Alain and Dani unhappy?<br />Dani has fallen for Alain but to have him would  surely mean his death. Alain is completely confused by his deep attraction  to Dani while he feels nothing for &quot;Brigette&quot;.<br />Ms. Sheridan's  well known humor comes into play with her side character McKenna, an off  beat fellow Wiccan who is Dani's best friend. The woman bends over  backwards to get these to &quot;see&quot; with their hearts with hilarious  results.<br />A great twist on a favorite fairy story. Readers will enjoy this  tale of magical love.<br />-- Leslie Tramposch ~ Paranormal Romance Reviews	2000-05-11
US	52852796	RQJHCEQX3N9IU	0505523531	991609894	Tempted (Wink & a Kiss)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	This book will leave you smiling!	This debut by Monica Roberts was just so much fun. The heroine, No-account Savage, is a cross between Eliza Dolittle and the Unsinkable Molly Brown but what she lacks in polish she makes up for in good old fashioned  kindness and caring. This Appalacian miss has travelled all the way to the  California gold fields to be the mail order bride of one Rev. Michael  Mulgrew a young and handsome, if rather starchy minister.<br />Mike hasn't  quite fit in with the town folk. In fact he's resorted to paying folks to  attend church. They are all rather amused by &quot;Preacher Perfect's&quot;  less than perfect bride. Mike has travelled cross country himself from  Boston to escape his fun loving family so he doesn't find Ms. No-account's  bizzare behavior amusing in the least. So why is he always jumping the the  cold creek with all his clothes on? Guess his body already knows what his  mind hasn't figured out yet.<br />He's jealous of every man that looks at  her, including her brother, his own brother, and the town doctor and finds  himself behaving in ways that are not at all like himself. He's losing his  temper every five minutes at her misguided attempts to help out in his home  and with the congregation. Before long the whole town is taken with the  renamed Hope and when Mike's jealousy finally gets the better of him and he  hurts Hope's feelings, the whole town goes to bat for her. Is it possible  that Rev. Mike can learn something about ministering from his betrothed?  Read the book. Fun from start to finish. Bravo Ms. Roberts. Hope to be  hearing more from you.	2000-01-03
US	52852796	R393QIUJB7785M	0373079613	21160197	Enchanted: The Donovan Legacy (Silhouette Intimate Moments, #961)	Books	1	20	29	N	N	More Donovan's please but not like this one.	So dissappointing after the wonderful books Captivated, Entranced, and Charmed. Nora should have left well enough alone if this was the only inspiration for continuing the series.<br />A self-centered hero and a  lovestruck wimpy heroine, no plot. The premise had promise but there was no  follow through. This Donovan, Liam is a second cousin to the original  Donovans. He's isolated himself in the mountains to make a life altering  decision. He must decide whether or not he wishes to assume the mantle of  Prince of his people from his father.  On the wind is carried a message...  Love is coming for him. He is determined not to let this influence his  choice, in fact he shrewdly decides to use the fact to support his ultimate  decision. As prince he must marry another hereditary witch. Should the  woman not be so, he can use his love as an excuse to decline. Should she be  one, he can reject her and make it his reason to decline.<br />His gift is the  ability to shapeshift. His favorite form is that of a wolf and that's how  he meets the heroine.<br />She is on retreat in an effort to come to a  decision of her own.  She is dissatisfied with the life choices that have  been essentially made for her. She is unfullfilled with her teaching job  and with her blase' relationship with her fiance'.  She wants to be alone  to make a life altering decision.  So far so good.<br />She is taken with the  wolf but not so taken with his human counterpart. He is determined not to  let her get close in his human form. He does, however, take advantage of  her loving nature in his animal form, sleeping in her bed, watching her  bathe. Ugh.  The catch is that he knows she is a hereditary witch, a fact  that has been kept from her. At last, in order to reveal what she is to  her, he must reveal himself. Justifably furious with his deceit, she flees,  staying away and rebuilding her life until approached by Liam's mother who  tells her he's miserable. Swallowing her pride she returns to him. He  grudgingly admits that he loves her qualifying it by saying that he doesn't  have to like it. Sheesh. Oh and by the way he's decided to be prince  regardless of how his romantic life turns out. What a boor!im. He  grudgingly admits that he loves her qualifying it by saying that he doesn't  have to like it. Sheesh. Oh and by the way he's decided to be prince  regardless of how his romantic life turns out. What a boor!	1999-12-15
US	52852796	R2K59E1R103LQT	0671020722	116631379	Temptress (Sonnet Books)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Give in to the Temptation!	Victoria Malvey's all or nothing heroines never fail to delight and Rosaleen Fleming is no exception. Just as Enchanted's heroine Amie refused to marry her beloved Cris for anything less than his love, Temptress's  Rosaleen, even knowing that Lucien St. Cyr returns her love, will accept  nothing less than his trust.  Ah but trust no longer comes easily to  Lucien. He has been raised a gentleman and is a true one. That is until he  learns a bitter truth. The man he has esteemed as his father had purchased  him at birth to spare his dear wife the anguish of another still birth. The  past catches up with them for when the birth mother dies, she informs the  true father of his son.  The birth father is an aging rake of the highest  magnitude but he has no son and seeks to claim his own.<br />To complicate  matters further Rosaleen has her own troubles. Raised by kind an loving  parents she must suffer the slings and arrows of society because  circumstances had made her mother her father's mistress before his  wife.<br />Lucien had been the only one who had been kind to Rosa and she had  fallen for him almost at once, but he had fled unable to deal with his true  heritage and Rose's parents had sent her on a grand tour of Europe hoping  that she would find a husband who would not hold the circumstances of her  birth against her.<br />Both have now returned to England and courtesan's are  being murdered, a note decrying each as temptresses of the flesh is left  beside each brutal slain body. A warning note is sent to her mother and  then when Rose is seen in an embrace with Luc on a public street early one  morning she receives one as well.  He vows to protect her and also to marry  her but when his birth father is implicated he removes himself fearing his  own bad blood. Rose attempts to end the betrothal fearing Luc's withdrawal  each time he doubts himself. This she can not bear.  But the plot takes a  dramatic twist and Luc learns that he can be whatever he choses to make of  himself and that whatever his faults he can not live without  Rosaleen.<br />Ms. Malvey's ablitity to weave her romances through various  subplots is a gift that will hold her in good stead for the future. After  all the true test of love is the ability to survive life's trials together.make of  himself and that whatever his faults he can not live without  Rosaleen.<br />Ms. Malvey's ablitity to weave her romances through various  subplots is a gift that will hold her in good stead for the future. After  all the true test of love is the ability to survive life's trials together.	1999-11-30
US	52852796	RKY3PYLPPRMYT	0821762982	871813508	Beneath A Blood Red Moon (Zebra romantic suspense)	Books	2	28	33	N	N	Everything but the kitchen sink plot - not believable	This book was categorized as romantic suspense, I'm guessing that is very different from a straight romance.  This book sure was. I expect violence from vampire novels, but the opening was a real turn off, I was heartbroken  over the death of Maggie's vampire lover who didn't deserve what happened  to him, and did they have to do it while the two were in bed together?  Tasteless I thought.<br />Then there is the cop, the hero, who is a borderline  rapist, can't take no for an answer, how hypocritical. Maggie decides she  likes it once he gets started so now hey it's okay, just forced seduction.  When she decides things are happening too fast for her, Sean acts like a  total jerk. Sure some guys act that way, but then there wouldn't be a  second date!<br />Reincarnation becomes the excuse for his behavior. He is  drawn to her because of his other life, can't seem to help himself.  Ms.  Drake gets carried away with the reincarnation theme, extending it to his  partner and her's, then doesn't do anything with it.<br />If anyone deserved  to be reincarnated it is Maggie's  original vampire lover.<br />The Ripper  plot is okay, the villian satisfyingly demented.  I like the development of  the vampire king he grows with time, gives vampires a good name.  He seems  to genuinely care for Maggie. The rules really got on my nerves though.  Justice should be served even among preditors.<br />The end was nice enough  if you can wade through the rest to get to it.  Not one of my favorites, I  recommend Chris Feehan's &quot;Dark Prince&quot; as an alternative this  month.  ~Leslie Tramposch - PNR Reviews	1999-10-19
US	52852796	R13HZ5SNNDUU4Q	0553580183	174192523	Touch of the Wolf (Historical Werewolf Series, Book 1)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Light but interesting.	I really loved the plot, the heroine is a werewolf who is unable to change, the hero is leader of the werewolves, carrying out a werewolf breeding program to concentrate the blood of his people and save the race.  How painful it must have been  for him to prove his dedication to &quot;the  Cause&quot; by promising the woman he cares for to his brother as part of  his duty, because he was thought to be infertile.  Spellbinding.<br />Yet I  wasn't wholly satisfied. Most werewolf tales take place in the wilderness.  Susan's other werewolf tales are no exception both contemporary tales  taking place in the Americas.  This story took place in Victorian England,  I could have been truly different, but wasn't.  Besides being the leader of  the werewolves, Bradon is the Earl of Greyburn, a peer of the realm, there  was so much potential there. Consider the irony of greedy human debutant's  setting their caps for the enigmatic and handsome earl, while his sole  focus is making sure none of his people breed with humans. By making all  the major players, hero, heroine, siblings, even the villians werewolves  the author isolated them as surely as if they were living in that vast  American wilderness. The remaining two stories in the series return to the  American West, though still in historical time period.  I feel like an  opportunity was missed here.  I would still recommend the book and will  certainly purchase the others. ~L. Tramposch - PNR reviews	1999-10-19
US	52852796	R3P7R4GIT9PZR9	0515124990	943086506	Timeless Wish	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Wonderful Debut - When's the sequel?	This had everything I like in a Paranormal romance. The characters were realistic, these folks weren't prettied up for the romance, they had real problems, and real responses to their problems. Sometimes they plummeted to  the depths of despair which many can identify with, but together they make  a new life full of promise. The heroine was fiesty, the hero very sexy,  lots of humor, oh geez when Laura was making the hamburgers and Corby's  women relatives all hovered to make sure she wasn't going to poison the  kids, I was rolling on the floor.  There was lots of humor, and suspense,  evil villians, and you learned a little of native American history to boot.  The fact that Laura kept bouncing between times everytime she hit her head  added a extra dimesion to the plot as it totally confuses Hillhouses in  both centuries.  I love the way the 20th century twins, Laura's best  buddies, Galen and Jake work in the future to make things work for Laura in  the past.  The scene where Jake uses his myticism to reach Laura in the  past and save the day is totally awesome. This book is unique. I want more,  perhaps a Galen story with someone who knows Laura and Jake traveling  forward to meet up with Galen (oh please include Jake in this one).  I also  like to know the story behind Jason and Starr. ----------Leslie Tramposch  -Pghromance	1999-08-23
US	52852796	R25KY27U5SU0ET	0380798980	900264116	The Duke's Return	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A very nice read.	While this one didn't have the impact of her debut novel &quot;Her Norman Conqueror&quot; I did enjoy the read.  It was a sweet story. One of the things I liked about both books is that Ms. Martin's heroine's are able to  look past disabilities to the person they are dealing with.  In this case  the Duke is dislexic and is holed up in Paris, avoiding all responsiblility  because everyone thinks he lack intelligence.  This is a rather common  problem that has only recently been dealt with.  The story is not  exceptional except for that story line but is a nice romance none the less	1999-08-12
US	52852796	R19R7E3GN6LNTP	0425169707	377844166	Veils of Time (Macleod Family)	Books	5	46	49	N	N	Best Time Travel anthology ever!	Okay I love everything Lynn Kurland has ever written, &quot;And The Groom Wore Tulle&quot; is no exception. A continuation of Ian MacLeod's character (Jamie's Cousin) from &quot;A Dance Through Time&quot; (I recommend you  read this first), this tale is hysterical. A mediaval Scottish warrior, and  fabled lover, finds he's spoiled one virgin too many and winds up in the  dungeon of his worst enemy. Thinking he is going to die, he wishes he could  have found the way to the future and his cousin Jamie. Upon passing out the  enemy's cohorts think he's dead and deposit him back on MacCleod land in  the midst of the magical faery ring which transports him to 20th century  NYC in the storage room of a bridal shop full of wedding dress, just  waiting for the woman of his dreams to discover him and decide that he's  INSANE! Thinking he's in heaven he dons one of the gowns (his angel robe no  doubt) and things just get funnier from there. Maggie Shayne is probably  best known for her vampire stories, so she's no stranger to paranormal  romance. In this story, &quot;The Con and the Crusader&quot;, a boy who's  spent his life avoiding work has grown up into a conman. Having a shred of  scruples left he doesn't con good folk only criminal types. When arrested  by the police as a possible crime witness he is caught in the crossfire as  the now wise criminals catch up with him. He escapes, still handcuffed and  dives into a wishing well. As he falls he promises God he will work hard  from now on, if only he survives this experience. Be careful what you wish  for! He lands in the prison yard in a time gone by and is being perused by  a beautiful older woman, a widow with two wards, who is decided upon making  an inmate her husband to save her farm and the room over the children's  heads in exchange for his freedom. It's a sweet story as love reforms him.  Angie Ray's &quot;Bride Most Common&quot; is a tale about a time machine.  The heroine is a scientist, her boss has invented a time machine, the time  traveller enter's a dead body at the moment of death and carries on from  there. Unfortunately his feckless relative, who tested the machine, freaked  at the major bullet wound he finds in his new body and doesn't complete his  task thereby changing history, Pollution is rampant, many species of  animals are going extinct. The heroine must go back and fix things. To her  surprise she finds herself the in the role of the bride in a marriage of  convenience. It isn't long before the groom realizes this isn't the cold  woman he thought would let him live his life in peace. He is drawn to her  and she to him, but here's the catch he has to die to save the future and  she has to return home. Whatever will they do?<br />Ingrid Weaver's  &quot;Conyn's Bride&quot; is by far the best story of all. The heroine is a  museum expert. She is cataloging a shipment of Celtic antiquities when a  box bursts open and suddenly she is faced with an authentic Celtic warrior  who claims to be her long lost fiancee. A Sleeping Beauty story of sorts,  one of timeless love. You see he left his love behind to do his duty, only  to return as she has decided to go to him, she drowns in a flooding river  as he watches unable to save her life. He feels his own life is ended but a  woman of magic tells him that he will have another chance with his soulmate  in another time, another place. He knows his heart's mate at once but will  he convince this woman that he is the love of HER life?<br />Fabulous  collection of stories, I hope they will do others. ~ Leslie Tramposch -  Pghromancetime machine, the time  traveller enter's a dead body at the moment of death and carries on from  there. Unfortunately his feckless relative, who tested the machine, freaked  at the major bullet wound he finds in his new body and doesn't complete his  task thereby changing history, Pollution is rampant, many species of  animals are going extinct. The heroine must go back and fix things. To her  surprise she finds herself the in the role of the bride in a marriage of  convenience. It isn't long before the groom realizes this isn't the cold  woman he thought would let him live his life in peace. He is drawn to her  and she to him, but here's the catch he has to die to save the future and  she has to return home. Whatever will they do?<br />Ingrid Weaver's  &quot;Conyn's Bride&quot; is by far the best story of all. The heroine is a  museum expert. She is cataloging a shipment of Celtic antiquities when a  box bursts open and suddenly she is faced with an authentic Celtic warrior  who claims to be her long lost fiancee. A Sleeping Beauty story of sorts,  one of timeless love. You see he left his love behind to do his duty, only  to return as she has decided to go to him, she drowns in a flooding river  as he watches unable to save her life. He feels his own life is ended but a  woman of magic tells him that he will have another chance with his soulmate  in another time, another place. He knows his heart's mate at once but will  he convince this woman that he is the love of HER life?<br />Fabulous  collection of stories, I hope they will do others. ~ Leslie Tramposch -  Pghromance	1999-08-06
US	52852796	R1GJ1NX62UKD6D	0505523248	876237009	An Original Sin (Wink & A Kiss, 3)	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Stunning Debut - a five!	This is my favorite type of TT where both lovers travel through time. This one's a bit different as he's from the year 1700 and she's from the year 2300 and they find themselves together in bed in the year 2000. This lends  itself to all kinds of humor. Not only that but Leith is a Campbell, Four  two N (Fortune) is a MacDonald. If you know anything about the Glencoe  Massacre (1692) you know the two don't mix. Ah but that's all part of  cosmic trouble maker Ganymede's utimate plan to take the two most  incompatible people of all time fall in love only to break their hearts by  ripping them apart as they realize the stunning news.<br />She thinks she's  been sent to take him back as a love slave to save humanity, he thinks he's  been sent to atone for his sins by teaching the ultimate virgin the joys of  lovemaking. He's a warrior, she's used to bland surroundings and tame  emotions. Throw in a cabbie name Blade, his knife throwing wife, a  motorcycle gang, a cat that follows them everywhere and an Elvis loving ice  cream man and you've got a hilarious tale.<br />Rivetting, romantic, real!  This one's a five in my book. I highly recommend this read.	1999-08-04
US	52852796	R26H5N0286IGCO	0515124036	140444396	A Love Through Time (Time Passages)	Books	5	33	37	N	N	Debut Deluxe!	This is my favorite type of time travel in which both main character travel through time in order to learn a lesson. This is an incredible debut for Ms. Brisbin. Her writing style is so vivid and emotional that I felt as  if I'd been pushed through the arch right along with Maggie and Alex! I  experienced their confusion, fear, and pain, their courage, joy, and love.  I watched as Alex's true character emerged and his emotions blossomed, up  close and personal. I laughed, cried, and hurt for the two of them. The  touching epilogue was the perfect ending to a perfectly delightful read! I  highly recommend this novel and wait with baited breath for the November  sequel &quot;A Matter of Time&quot;. --------- Leslie Tramposch -  Pghromance	1999-08-03
US	52852796	R1P08ZYJ4WPYER	0843945524	702891540	Paradise (Leisure romance)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Enjoyable summer read!	I wasn't taken with the first story. I like vampire romances but not with a former real person in the role.<br />I loved the other three tales by new authors, Bangs, Lawrence, and Nance. Wonderful stories with Elvis as a side  character or spirtual influence.  Lawrence and Nances were so well written  and complex, I soon forgot they were novella's.  I loved Lawrence's  &quot;Virtual Heaven&quot;, Bangs' &quot;An Original Sin&quot;, and Nance's  &quot;More Than Magic&quot; recent single titles as well. Leisure Love  Spell has a wonderful stable of new authors, I hope we'll be hearing more  from them soon.	1999-08-01
US	52852796	R23J5TG4BGZ4PM	0505523256	135190092	Beloved Warrior (Perfect Heroes Series, 4)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Hot, Sweet, Funny!	A promising first for Judy DiCanio. When Loki, Viking afterworld mischief maker has his pride wounded by Dar, grandson of Odin, he send the immortal plummeting to earth and in front of vehicle driven by Jennifer Giordano.  The heroine is alone in the world and short on funds.  Against her better  judgement she gives her &quot;victim&quot; a place to stay.  Together they  battle the forces of evil from both worlds who would do them harm.  They  are aided by Dar's dragon Firedrake, and absentminded geneous Snorri who is  an expert on Norse mythology and an unfortunate employee of the intitute  which wished to clone Dar's Dragon for evil purposes.  A fun story with a  sweet romance. Lor's story is next and I hope there will be more detailed  info. on Valhalla and it's inhabitants.  Great effort for Judy!	1999-08-01
US	52852796	RDE7VDPX7S1IM	0671020714	953131240	Enchanted (Sonnet Books)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Utterly Enchanting!!!!!!!!!!!!!	For every girl who's ever dreamed of the boy next door, this one's for you.<br />I'm on my second reading of this novel and I still find it hard to  believe this is only the author's second effort. It has all the elements of  a keeper, humor, intrique, and a lovely tender romance. Not a lightweight  romance novel this, but so much more.<br />I loved the fact that even though  Amie has loved Cris for as long as she can remember, she is not willing  settle for anything less than equal emotion from him. I cheered when she  turned down his first proposal. She had an integrity that is lacking in  most heroines. It was fun watching Cris find his way to the realization  that he truly loved Amie as more than a friend. The secondary characters  were lots of fun and the plot involving the stereotypical lords of the  realm was dastardly clever, even though they weren't! I just had to  laugh.<br />While I have no idea if the author has planned stories for Amie's  sisters, I certainly would love to see more of these characters. The  guardian was a hoot, trying to &quot;fix them up&quot;! The excerpts of Ms.  Malvey's next novel &quot;Temptress&quot; have already intrigued me. If it  is half as good as Enchanted, I predict that she is on the fast track to  success!!!!	1999-07-22
US	52852796	R2E0VCZWK5BB5W	0505523205	807688885	Bushwhacked Bride (Wink & A Kiss, 2)	Books	1	7	10	N	N	Pass this one up.	If this is an example of humor, it doesn't bode well for Love Spells new humor line.  I found myself on page 200 and still hadn't gotten into the story line. I never did!  The hero is an MCP extraordinaire, his brothers a  bunch of ignorant bumpkins, I just cant believe that a 20th century  professoress could ever find a redeeming quality in these 19th century  bunglers. Very disappointing read.	1999-07-14
US	52852796	R1FMXHGZB1SXPM	0451408896	716530883	Secrets of the Night	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Nice Read	This was a very pleasant read. I thought it was somewhat different than Ms. Beverley's other Malloren's in that there was relatively no conflict between the hero and heroine (I kind of missed that). It was mostly them  against the world, it was refreshing to have a couple who had so much in  common and have so much honor. It was truly inspiring that they were  willing to sacrifice so much in order to have their family intact at the  end.  I also like getting a peek at Rothgars softer side and see him bested  by his future heroine. I look forward to Devilish.<br />Where I got hung up  in the book was in Brands easy capitulation to his masked lady's request  for sex in payment for saving his life. It was not the fact that he was  willing to accomodate a stranger, this is after all historical fiction and  a Georgian at that. It's just that, in his shoes, having been drugged,  suffering from memory loss, and finding myself locked in a room in a  strange house with a woman who won't remove her mask and who  &quot;claims&quot; to have saved my life I would have been a lot more wary.  He was way too trusting and he did pay for it later.	1999-06-27
US	52852796	R1IMU8UR34W0ZU	0671024671	452717812	Touch Not the Cat	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Paranormal Par Excellence!	A must read! If only every author's premier novel were as excellent as this one. I'm a long time lover of shape shifter novels but rarely have I come across one in which the heroine is the powerful, potentially  dangerous, and sensual animal. Nicholas' acceptance and protectiveness of  his beloved touched me to my soul. Ms Fobes way with a descriptive phase  takes you right inside the story. I was sorry when the book came to an end.  I've been very fortunate to have been able to read Ms. Fobes' next effort,  Heart of the Dove, in advance. This book was not a fluke folks, Ms. Fobes  will surely be a rising star in the paranormal romance field.	1999-06-17
US	52852796	R39UZ985U7R2Q2	067102468X	676756176	Heart of the Dove (Sonnet Books)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Trend for the New Millenium!!!!!!	Ms. Fobes has done it again! True to her first novel, &quot;Touch Not the Cat&quot;, Tracy has created a heroine that is powerful, potentially dangerous, and sensual (as well as kind and loving). Her hero though  troubled, is courageous enough to protect her, self confident enough to  allow her to defend him. This book is Sleeping Beauty with a twist. The  ending is more than satisfying, its a revelation that love can triumph over  all. Amazing! It is my fondest wish that these type of characters will  &quot;catch on&quot; as we move into the next century.	1999-06-16
US	52852796	R135QBGERMBGCA	0505523078	532873024	Virtual Heaven (Perfect Heroes Series)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Virtually Heaven!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!	I'm one of those people who reads the end of a novel first. Satisfied with the ending I begin, but this novel was too clever for that. Was I surprised. Maggie O'Brien was everything I wanted in a hero, strong,  faithful, brave. Kered, the hero was a delightful enigma, a medieval  warrior who wished only for peace, a member of the elite, yet he trusts his  life and his heart to a slave. I love the twist the story takes when Maggie  is sent back prematurely, could fall in love with Derek myself and the word  play was a revelation. I haven't been surprised by a book in a long time  and I was delighted. Vad was the perfect side-kick and I look forward to  his story. Awesome first book for Ann Lawrence!	1999-06-08
US	52852796	R1XQSWINE2JHRQ	0843939958	588151263	Violet (Seven Brides Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A truly great read!	Despite the fact that the seven Randolph brother's were emotionally abused as children by their handsome yet cruel father, they grow up into good and strong men. Yet their damaged inner child makes him feel incapable of  loving or worthy of being loved.<br />Jeff Randolph, bright and sensitive,  believed strongly in the cause of the southern states and just as strongly  that war was not the way to resolve the problem. His father taunts him for  being a coward and threatens to kill him himself if he doesn't fight. Jeff  does the only thing he can do and follows his older brother George into the  conflict. In doing so he loses his left arm and spends the rest of his time  in a yankee prison camp.<br />Returning home, Jeff already riddled with  feelings of inadequacy, uses his disability to keep other people from  getting close. He despises Yankees and his only dream is to return to the  family home in Virginia and the gentle life he once knew. And of course a  gentle southern belle to go with it.<br />Jeff finds his place as the family  banker. He sees it as a means to obtain his dream. Family obligation lands  him in the middle of a quarantine at his nieces school. There he finds the  most irritating Yankee woman who not only sees beyond his disability but  finds something in him to love as well. Through his insecurity he drives  her away and in doing so realizes he can't live without her. When tragedies  strike he comes through for both his family and his woman. Violets  unconditional love and his own courage opens his heart to love of himself,  his lady, and his family, dispelling his father's legacy forever.	1999-03-05
US	52852796	R2Z5AC9ZE4XFEC	0843938331	905055836	Daisy (Seven Brides)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Series favorite	By the age of seven Tyler Randolph has been so emotionally abused by his sadistic father he no longer allows himself to feel anything, not when his brother go to war, his father deserts them or when his mother dies.  He  doesn't think he deserves his place in the family or his share of the  family wealth.<br />Determined to make it on his own, Tyler heads for New  Mexico and the lost gold mines. The only problem is that his birthday is in  six months and he has promised to take one of the jobs his brothers had to  offer if he fails to find gold by this time.  Tyler can't bear to be a  further failure and plans to dissappear when the time comes.  When he  rescues an injured beauty he has no place to take her but to his  prospector's cabin high in the mountains.  Taunted as the ugly Randolph,  Tyler is hiding his handsome face behind long hair and a heavy beard.  Daisy can't help but feel he has something to hide. Somehow though Tyler  can't seem to want to hide from Daisy.  Not his face and not his heart.<br />Daisy has been told what to do all her life and Tyler is the first man  who seems to think she's capable of taking care of her ranch herself, she  loves him, but doesn't want to give up the independence he's taught her to  cherish.  Finally she realizes that, though Tyler can do everything better  than she, he has a scared little boy inside of him that needs her as  desperately as she needs him.  When she realizes Tyler sees himself as her  partner, not her master, she knows she can trust him with her heart.	1999-03-05
US	52852796	R19MKSPFY5N29E	0843937440	526799401	Laurel (Seven Brides)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Better and Better	Fourth in the Seven Brides series.<br />Hen Randoph, now on his own, is hired as sheriff of Sycamore Flat because of his reputation as a gun fighter.  Everyone thinks he is a remorseless killer.  Although most of his brother's  pain revolves around the cruelty of their father, Hen is haunted by the  fact that his mother didn't care enough about her sons to live for them  after their father left.  At fourteen Hen and twin Monty were left to  defend their ranch and protect younger brothers Tyler and Zac.<br />When Hen  finds rustlers about to hang his twin, he has to chose between losing his  brother and losing his innocence forever. He sees himself as a protector  not a killer but does what he has to defend his own and later the town.  Yet each time he is forced to kill he feels a little piece of his soul  slipping away.  That compounded with the fact that the woman he loves,  Laurel, can't love a gunfighter and doesn't want her son to be like him.  Hen is inexperienced with women and only knows that something about this  woman touches something he thought buried forever.  Time and time again Hen  takes the high road and finally convinces Laurel that the man inside is  good and worthy of her love.  When the Laurel's inlaws, the Blackthorns  come to town for a showdown over the custody of her son Adam, Hen must  defend the town.  One by one word reaches his six brothers and they  converge on the town to lend a hand. When Hen tries to do the right thing  an accident occurs which causes an innocent bystander to be critically  wounded.  Guilt plagues Hen and he can only find comfort in Laurels arms.  Only Laurel has the key to open his heart and shows him to be worthy of not  just her love but the love of his family.  With the help of his brother's  the showdown is averted and Hen is free to go back to the peace of ranch  life with his ready made family.	1999-03-05
US	52852796	R1V3MLVBM3RQ6Z	0843944099	105822733	Fern (Seven Brides)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A wonderful read.	Madison Randolph (given up for dead by all but brother George), has been estranged from his family for years.  All his life, his cruel father regarded his love of books as a weakness and tormented him unmercifully.  Never cut out to be a rancher, Madison leaves home to escape his feelings  of inadequacy.<br />Year later he becomes a successful Boston lawyer.  He has  everything he has ever wanted but somewhere deep down he has never  forgotten the family he left behind. When his brother Hen is falsely  accused of murder he sees his chance to go home and prove his worthiness by  proving Hen's innocence. Old family resentments the &quot;Flower  Woman&quot; as different from him as night and day, seem to stand in his  way.<br />Fern, the pants wearing beauty, hiding behind a dark secret, needs  this proper gentleman as much as he need her. Together they bare their  souls and heal each others hearts.  With Ferns help Madison finds his place  in his family. This is the second book in the Seven Brides Series. I  recommend reading them all.	1999-03-05
US	52852796	R33Z7NKM7X36RP	0373471688	160317337	Crazy Like A Fox  (Louisiana)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Suspend disbelief!	Who wouldn't love Peter Jaffrey, sexy, handsome, and sensitive and &quot;crazy&quot; about Margaret Jaffrey. Peter, under house arrest for a murder he didn't commit, is so vulnerable you can't help but love him. Margaret, battered widow, homeless, single mom sees the potential in her late husbands sweet but sad cousin.  My heart was with Margaret every step of the way, particularly at the voodoo madam's grave sight where, with all her life is lacking, she uses her one wish to ask for Peter's sanity.  Peter in turn risks all, even his life, to be with the women he loves. The sexual tension between these two is only the beginning.  This is not your run of the mill romance. With convoluted plot and serious obstacles to overcome, you can't help but pray these two make it. Anne Stuart is a master who knows how to create empathy with her hero's and heroines (in spite of their dark secrets).	1998-08-12
US	52852796	R3JYH7B46NO2TJ	0515122890	47109310	Sea Spell (Magical Love)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Selkies Rule!	I love books about the mythic selkies from Jane Yolen's &quot;Greyling&quot; , to Anne Stuarts &quot;A Dark and Stormy Night&quot; to Christina Dodd's &quot;A Well Favored Gentlemen&quot;.  Their intrinsic beauty and spirit makes you wish they were real.  Gordon Henson's character is no exception.  How could you not love a man who names himself after a Sesame Street Character and the muppets creator.  His innocence of heart is as appealling as the wildness of his nature.  I also think his restraint is refreshing. He puts winning his love's mind and heart over lust for her body.  Truly romantic.	1998-06-30
US	52852796	R1I7FXI1CE4X03	0440212561	983256815	Outlander	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Incredible	I wanted to review this remarkable series however the review from a reader from Texas dated 6/10/98 said everything I could have said.  To those who didn't like these books, well if someone's stopped payment on your reality check, don't read historical fiction.  Bad things happen to good people in those times as now and good people are forced to do unpleasant things sometimes to survive. You can bury your head in the sand and pretend that such things never happen but it doesn't stop them from happening.  These things make the story more real because they portray real life.  Claire and Jamie's love is so poignant because they are able to face adversity and fortify their love, come what may.  If you are appalled by some of things that occur then be equally impressed with the character of the main characters as they make sacrifices and suffer and become stronger because through it all they love.<br />I've read all four of the published books and am looking forward to the others to come.  I couldn't put these books down and despite their length, read them in slightly over a month. I would agree with Jamie's assessment of the length of books, some just have a lot to say! (and I haven't been living in a cave for seven years.)  I've read many books of this genre in my spare time and never have I read a more detailed and involving romance.  I highly recommend this series.	1998-06-15
US	52852796	RYPN37E5GDI8V	0843940700	232194200	Lily (Leigh Greenwood's Seven Bride's)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A series you can't miss!	&quot;Lily&quot; is the seventh and last book in the &quot;Seven Brides&quot; series.  If you haven't read them all, start with &quot;Rose&quot; and read them in order.  Each bride and brother is a gem.  ----The ultimate dysfunctional family...  Seven Randolph Brother's, each with a unique personality, yet as the eldest, George, would probably say, seven faces of the same man.  Beneath their ultra tough exteriors, in the deepest most vulnerable part of their souls, lives the lagacy of a cruel, sadistic father and a weak mother, the fear that they are incapable of loving and unworthy of being loved. Their loyalty to each other (although they may not understand it) shows us otherwise.  The &quot;flower women&quot; who wed them win their hearts and heal their souls by loving them just the way they are and in turn the brothers do the same for them.  &quot;Lily&quot; is a sweet and very funny story.  If you have followed Zac throughout the series from a cheeky six year old to a devilishly charming 24 year old, you can't help but hope he finds love at last.  Zac, the youngest Randoph is the most lost soul of all, although he was too young to have the memories of his parents which haunted his older brothers, he feel even less worthy of his family than all the others.  His life's goal is even less worthy, he makes his success as the owner of the most successful saloon in San Francisco's Barbary Coast region.  He is a gambler and considered to be the most selfish Randolph of all, only thinking about himself.  Then into town blows Lily Sterling, a distant cousin of Zac's.  Lily, an innocent but spirited minister's daughter is fleeing an arranged marriage........Although the series is at an end it leaves you wanting more.  I myself would like to know what kind of father Zac made.  Mr. Greenwood gives us romance from a man's prospective, women take heed!	1998-04-01
US	52852796	R2LFVZI2DWFDNK	0515122610	838816202	The Very Thought of You	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Lynn Kurland has done it again!	If you haven't read &quot;A Dance Through Time&quot; first do so.  In &quot;Dance&quot; Elizabeth Smith travels through time to medievel Scottland to find her true love in laird Jamie McCleod.  When Jamie survives the death history has proclaimed for him he realizes his time has no place for him and travel forward to Elizabeth's time.  Elizabeth calls her brother Alex to let him know of her return.  Alex who has become disillusioned with his life as a corporate raider travels to Scottland with younger brother Zachary to greet his sister and new husband where they learn that Jamie's nemisis from the past has discovered time travel and is wreaking havoc throughout the centuries.  Jamie and Elizabeth travel back in time this time taking Alex and Zac.  They acheive success and return to the future.  The four decide to remain in Scottland together.  &quot;The Very Thought of You&quot; picks up with Jamie and Elizabeth away on one of their jaunts through time leaving Alex and Zac to seriously get on each others nerves.  Alex winds up in Jamie's library looking for a book and finds a map of Jamie's property with x's marked with locations and time periods scrawled beneath them.  Deciding he could use a quick vacation in Barbados Alex instead winds up in twelfth century England.  There he finds what he was unable to find in his own time, the love of his life Margaret of Falconberg who has been trying to hold on to her land for ten years since her father's death and inspite of the murauding of the evil neighboring lord.  Alex wins the right to wed Margaret in a tournament held by King Richard the Lionheart.  Missing Alex and finding the map dislocated, Jamie and Elizabeth arrive to bring Alex home.  For the first time Alex realizes that he will never see his family again and decides to travel forward just once to say his goodbyes.  In the future Margaret is stunned by the changes.  She feels great responsibility for her people in the past and knows she must return.  She also decides that she loves Alex too much to deprive him of his luxuries of the future and returns alone.  Alex is heartbroken but can not return to the past without Margaret as it is not his time.  Jamie discovers that Margaret is to did in a fire caused by her enemy.  Alex is desperate to find a way back to her.  Margaret returns to the past to the fire that was to claim her.  She kills Ralf and realizes that the past no longer has a place for her and that she can return to the future and Alex but not before making arrangements for the restoration of the castle and instructions to hold it in trust for Alex in the future.  She returns to a distraught Alex promises never to leave him again and surprises him with the castle and his title.  They adopt the orphans they brought forward with them and find happiness at last.decides that she loves Alex too much to deprive him of his luxuries of the future and returns alone.  Alex is heartbroken but can not return to the past without Margaret as it is not his time.  Jamie discovers that Margaret is to did in a fire caused by her enemy.  Alex is desperate to find a way back to her.  Margaret returns to the past to the fire that was to claim her.  She kills Ralf and realizes that the past no longer has a place for her and that she can return to the future and Alex but not before making arrangements for the restoration of the castle and instructions to hold it in trust for Alex in the future.  She returns to a distraught Alex promises never to leave him again and surprises him with the castle and his title.  They adopt the orphans they brought forward with them and find happiness at last.	1998-03-13
US	52852796	R1NXMRV2L08ULX	0380789345	599616151	Brighter Than the Sun	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Utterly Charming	Even better than &quot;Everything and the Moon&quot;. While Robert and Victoria were starcrossed lovers, Charles and Ellie seem to be on a &quot;collision course&quot; with destiny. I loved Charles and the &quot;lists&quot;.  The calculated mishaps the murder plot made it much more interesting.  Both Charles and Ellie are strong characters.  I was really impressed with Danelle Harmons review as she is one of my favorite romance authors.  I wholeheartedly agree with her assessment of this book.	1998-02-27
US	52852796	R31Y3083O05H53	0373167024	670374004	A Dark And Stormy Night: More Than Men No. 13	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Awesome!	I could not put this book down.  All I can say is if you loved Jane Yolens book &quot;Greyling&quot; as a child, you will love the shape-shifting hero O'Neal, and his ghostly family.  This book is as good as it gets.	1998-01-12
