US	52866174	R2GFL78S9Z7OL6	0060781181	414142071	Bodies in Motion: Stories	Books	5	11	15	N	N	A family through the generations	Bodies In Motion is a tapestry of lush and poetic stories arcing through time and connecting the members of two Sri Lankan families through moments and memories.<br /><br />Each member of the families is given their own section with a story that distills their existence into moments of revelation, identity, love, and loss.  You will be sucked into their lives as you read each section, learning about people like Mangai, the unattractive baby of the family who falls in love with her brother's wife; Kuyila, sent off into an arranged marriage because of her lack of intelligence compared to her brilliant sisters, who intentionally causes the miscarriage of her first pregnancy, bears a daughter, then loses her husband to his first love; and Chaya, who cannot share her innermost feelings with  man she loves and loses him because of her unwillingness to open up.<br /><br />As each chapter finishes, you will be eager to discover the next person in the timeline and experience the fragments of his or her life which will in turn provide insights into the next.  While many of the stories are filled with loss and pain, they are all covered with a shadow of hope - for their futures and the futures of the friends and family who will follow them.	2005-07-21
US	52866174	R2R3H3IOOQNEO1	0425200280	148321609	The Next Big Thing	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Chick lit with heft!	Kat Larson is a size 18 PR researcher, living in Nashville, who is carrying on an online affair with Nick, her gorgeous British 'boyfriend'.  They have a perfect long-distance relationship except for the fact that he believes her to be a size 4 after she alters some pictures on her computer.<br /><br />She becomes desperate to lose weight after Nick presses her several times to visit him in England and she uses up all of her excuses not to go.  When her best friend, Donna, gives her an application for a new reality show called From Fat To Fabulous, Kat decides to apply and after several eliminations, is chosen to be one of the six contestants on the show.<br /><br />What follows is a 'reality show within a book' with the roommates forging friendships, bickering, and becoming the typical television characters that reality shows tend to make the contestants into - with Kat becoming known as 'The Brat'.  When a twist is added into the show, she nearly decides to leave the house, but then makes up her mind to stick it out - and consequently learns a lot about appearances and relationships.<br /><br />This is definitely a great summer read; especially for reality show fanatics!	2005-05-26
US	52866174	R3EDQQ488QGQAC	0767917804	91942604	Wolves in Chic Clothing: A Novel	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Voyeuristic Fun	If you've ever longed to peek into the world of New York society princesses, then WOLVES IN CHIC CLOTHING is definitely a book you'll want to pick up.<br /><br />Julia Pearce is a beautiful, hip, but middle class salesgirl at Pelham's Jewelry, one of the top jewelry stores in the world.  When she is unexpectedly asked by the store's heiress, Lell Pelham, to deliver the necklace that she'll be wearing on her wedding day, Julia is swooped in on by the society girls who want a 'project' and decide that she would benefit from a society makeover.<br /><br />Soon, Julia is at the top of the heap, attending various benefits and believed to be the heiress of a glass-blowing family.  However, when an attraction develops between her and Lell's new husband, she finds herself on precarious ground and eventually falls from the top back down to where she began.<br /><br />For a fun, light read, you can't go wrong with Karasyov and Kargman, who also wrote THE RIGHT ADDRESS - another entertaining novel about breaking into the thick crust of American high society.	2005-05-26
US	52866174	R4DMVJYDV1EBR	1400062314	9571448	Prep: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The boarding school experience	Lee Fiora is a typical middle-class girl from Indiana who talks her family into letting her attend Ault, a prestigious boarding school in the east, for which she has won a scholarship.  Lee, in her teenage, midwestern naivety believes that going away to school will mirror the beautiful pictures on the school brochure...groups of students chatting benignly in front of brick buildings; endless games of basketball and lacrosse; girls in sweater sets and boys in blue blazers.  What she finds is a completely insular world where money defines you, even though is is expressly never spoken about and popularity is defined by who is the most casually rich, beautiful, and sarcastic.<br /><br />A fun and outgoing girl at home, Lee immediately becomes wary of her surroundings and is withdrawn into herself, unable to express what she really wants because of her intimidation of their way of life.  Anyone who was on the fringes of their high school class will resonate with Lee's thoughts on her unability to fully participate...she never goes to dances or social events and it takes her a full year to find one great friend.<br /><br />Throughout her high school experience, she is in love with Cross Sugarman, the 'golden boy' who helps her during a mall field trip when she gets her ears pierced by herself and faints.  They never really have a real relationship, but she can't help herself from holding a candle for him. There are many other fascinating side characters in the story - her best friend Martha, dorm-mates Dede, Aspeth, and Sin-Jun, and her own family who remain her solid link to the regular world from which she came.<br /><br />By the time she is a senior, Lee has made a place for herself at Ault and is finally comfortable, if not with who she really is, at least with what she has become there.  Then, in one instant, her entire painstakingly won work of climbing the social ladder falls apart around her and she's left to discover what really  matters in her life.<br /><br />I loved this book and highly recommend it!loved this book and highly recommend it!	2005-04-25
US	52866174	R1C7VC4VJFN79N	0140230270	725977597	Harvesting the Heart	Books	5	3	4	N	N	What if you could run away from it all...	As the novel opens, Paige Prescott is camping out on the front lawn of her home, waiting to get inside to reunite with her husband, Nicholas, and infant son, Max.  The problem is that Nicholas refuses to talk to her or let her in.  So the mystery is set: what could Paige have possibly done to cause her husband to refuse to let her see her child?<br /><br />Theirs is the typical star-crossed marriage - she is from the wrong side of the tracks and he is the son of a famous photographer and a self-made millionaire.  Her mother abandoned her she was four years old and the overwhelming quest of her life is to find out where she went and why.  He is the product of a rich and spoiled life where he was doted on by his two loving parents.<br /><br />When Paige and Nicholas tell his parents that they plan to marry, he is immediately cut off from his disapproving parents...they no longer see him or help to finance his medical education.  Paige works hard to help support them and pay for his mounting college costs.  Eventually, he becomes a highly respected cardiac surgeon and she is expected to play the role of dutiful trophy wife for which she is totally unsuited.<br /><br />When she gets pregnant and gives birth to Max, her confusion and dissatisfaction come to a head and she decides to leave her husband and child, just as her mother did years before, to try to find her mother and herself.  What she finds is that her mother isn't exactly who she envisioned her to be...and when she returns to her home, she finds that Nicholas refuses to forgive her for leaving.  She takes refuge at the home of her parents-in-law when she finds that even her mother-in-law isn't who she seems to be and that everyone has their private trials and secrets.<br /><br />This is an atypical Picoult book as there isn't any shocking controversy, big trial or twist at the end - but it is wonderful story about what is inside the hearts of us all and the sacrifices we must sometimes make to find our true selves.elves.	2005-04-02
US	52866174	R3IIG6YSCT4Y3U	0609810251	332136758	Katharine of Aragon: The Wives of Henry VIII	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Yet another complete gem by Plaidy	As the wife of a Crown Prince and a King, one would think that Katherine of Aragon led a charmed life, yet just the opposite is true.  A match was made between Katherine and Arthur Tudor, Henry VIII's older brother, for state reasons and after only six months of marriage, sickly Arthur dies.<br /><br />While Katherine wonders what is to become of her now that her status as Queen-To-Be has been revoked, it is decided that although she was married to Henry's brother, the marriage was never consummated, so therefore, a dispensation can be made to marry her off to Henry, and this is where her true great love and eventual downfall begins.<br /><br />Beginning with Katherine, the recurring theme throughout Henry's six marriages was the inability to beget male heirs.  She becomes pregnant many times, but suffers from miscarriages and stillbirths with the result that the only healthy, living child she produces is their daughter Mary.  Of course, Henry won't stomach this and believes that the reason he can't get a male heir is because he married his brother's wife and God is punishing him.  He petitions the Pope to annull his marriage, and when the Pope won't agree to do so, he breaks with the Catholic church and forms the Church of England with himself as the head so that he can divorce Katherine and marry Anne Boleyn (read Plaidy's The Lady In the Tower to find out her eventual fate).<br /><br />Katherine is sent into seclusion and separated from her beloved daughter, Mary, who isn't even allowed to attend to her mother as she hovers near death, as punishment for not making it easy for Henry to marry Anne by agreeing to an annulment which would have bastardized Mary and made her ineligible to inherit the crown of England.<br /><br />This novel is actually three books in one - Katherine, The Virgin Widow, The Shadow of the Pomegranate, and The King's Secret Matter - that are all meticulously researched and written in a way as to make you feel that you are actually there watching it happen.<br /><br />I think that even readers who aren't enamored of historical fiction will devour Plaidy's novels...you will learn much about English history and find yourself completely enjoying it!ching it happen.<br /><br />I think that even readers who aren't enamored of historical fiction will devour Plaidy's novels...you will learn much about English history and find yourself completely enjoying it!	2005-04-02
US	52866174	R1L5M4DF8Y5I77	1892127407	345168014	How To Take Perfect Scrapbook Pictures	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The ideal book for the amateur photographer	HOW TO TAKE SCRAPBOOK PICTURES doesn't assume that you have any knowledge of photography; it takes your hand and takes you step-by-step through the basic techniques you'll need to know in order to take your own one-of-a-kind scrapbook photos.  It gives easy to follow instructions for using SLR and point and shoot cameras along with information on lighting, composition, and visual effects.  There are numerous photographs on each page giving examples of the tips in action.<br /><br />Each page is broken down into separate headlined paragraphs highlighting different elements...this makes it easy to find what you're looking for and even easier to read and understand.  Chapters include: camera basics; film & digital media; pixel perfect, understanding the digital domain; creative camera controls simplified; working with light; visual dynamics, giving your photographs impact; photographing people; and every picture tells a story.<br /><br />This is the book to get if you're looking to get a little more in depth, yet understandable and easy to put into practice, knowledge of how to use your camera to take more beautiful pictures.	2005-04-02
US	52866174	R3VNUQES121G19	1892127555	210288479	Mastering Scrapbook Styles (Memory Makers)	Books	5	21	22	N	N	My favorite Memory Makers book yet!	Straight from the Memory Makers Masters, who are the annually chosen top 10 scrapbookers for Memory Makers Magazine, comes this technique book from MM.  I have found this to be the best one yet, showing progressive designs and to-the-point tips for creating your own pages.  I've been happy with their books in the past, but always wished they'd show more of the collage/shabby chic/vintage look that's popular now, and this one has definitely hit the mark!<br /><br />Each scrapbook page presented comes with it's own little paragraph telling how the page was made and it's own tip or technique box that highlights a particular element of the design.  Chapters include: transparent embellishments, geometric shapes, playful page themes, journaling, color, interactive elements, creative typography, texture, sewing and notions, and design details.<br /><br />The book is chock-full of gorgeous layouts and I highly recommend it to help get your creative juices flowing!	2005-04-02
US	52866174	R3VEKDFHZAINXZ	0743227441	512398584	The Other Boleyn Girl	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A different take on the story of Anne Boleyn	While reading this book, I was never sure who the 'other Boleyn girl' actually was.  At times it referred to Mary Boleyn, Anne's sister who conducted an affair with King Henry and bore him two children, and at other times it seemed to refer to Anne herself, who's driven ambition ultimately led her to the block.  This is a nice twist on the title which would lead you to believe that it was only Mary who was considered beneath contempt as the other Boleyn sister's fortunes rose.<br /><br />The choice of having Mary Boleyn as narrator of this story was inspired as it provides a completely different look at the complexities of court life and an intimate look at what it must have been like to be so tied to the future Queen of England even as your loyalties lay with the current Queen, Katherine of Aragon.  Mary is between a rock and a hard place and her guilt and confusion come through so clearly on the pages.  Katherine is portrayed sympathetically here as the cuckolded wife who must bear her husband's infidelities even as they happen right in front of her.<br /><br />As she goes from being the pawn in her family's game to raise the family's name at court to being a mere lady-in-waiting to her sister who manages to usurp her position, she realizes that her ultimate dream would be to own a farm in the country and to raise her children in peace, away from the glittering, cut-throat court.  As Anne finally becomes Queen of England, you get Mary's constant commentary on the familiar story of her inability to provide the King with a male heir, her frantic attempt to sustain her crown, and her eventual downfall ending with her beheading.  If I didn't already have a picture of her as a selfish manipulator, I would have been absolutely infuriated by her after reading of her behavior in this book!<br /><br />This is definitely a work of fiction as not much is known about Mary Boleyn, but what entertaining fiction it is!  Note: It does help to have a bit of background knowledge about the major players as the names and titles can get a bit confusing.out the major players as the names and titles can get a bit confusing.	2005-02-07
US	52866174	R2KIO6ZQQS7CE3	0446577006	956721764	Walk Away the Pounds: The Breakthrough 6-Week Program That Helps You Burn Fat, Tone Muscle, and Feel Great Without Dieting	Books	5	36	36	N	N	Leslie does it again!	I am a total addict of Leslie Sansone's Walk Away programs - I had many exercise videos, but never stuck to anything until I found her energizing, fun, and most of all easy workouts.<br /><br />In her personal, talking-to-you-like-a-best-friend style, Leslie shows you how regular exercise benefits you in all ways from your health to your body to your mind and then presents her easy to follow basic workout which consists of three walking steps that are interchanged and sometimes modified while doing the program.<br /><br />There is no dieting in this program!  She is a strong proponent of getting up and moving to better your life and shows it here by offering a few modifications you can make to your way of eating to help you lose weight, but no real diet, which I think is great!  It helps to show that the real health factor is getting the exercise you need, not feeling deprived of the food you want which is why many diets fail.<br /><br />She has many success stories to motivate you peppered throughout the book and closes with a discussion about how stress affects your life and how you can beat it through exercise.<br /><br />I love Leslie!  She is personable, motivating, and a great teacher - I am forever grateful to her for getting this former couch potato, at-home mom to stick to an exercise routine that I know will always benefit my life.	2005-01-13
US	52866174	R33P4PSJTI3BRD	038070322X	563269673	Legacy	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Stunning portrait of the Queen	As I was reading this fictionalized account of Elizabeth I, I was struck by the amount of detail given to her life which I've not found in other novels about her.  Here you find the Queen in all her mesmerizing, contradicting, and sometimes cruel beauty - the woman who could snare any man in her web; the alleged virgin (though not here!) who would share her crown with no man; and the monarch who could mete out punishment, but not stomach execution.<br /><br />Kay poses many answers to the questions which plagued Elizabeth - Who murdered Amy Robsart, Robert Dudley's wife?  Was she really a virgin?  What were her true feelings toward Mary Stuart who stood to inherit her crown if she died?  The revelations are intriguing and ring as truth.<br /><br />The book begins with Elizabeth's life as the proclaimed bastard of Anne Boleyn and continues through her captivity at the hands of her half-sister, Mary I up to her reign as the Queen of England.  Her life here is shadowed by the spectre of her mother who died at the block which is also given as a reason that she could not bear the thought of having given the order for anyone's execution.  The writing is emotional and will send you into the world of Tudor and Elizebethan England.	2005-01-13
US	52866174	RJ8IM3BWXB0K	0060564644	646479669	Hissy Fit	Books	5	0	1	N	N	This book has it all!	Keeley Murdock is about to marry Madison's hottest bachelor, A.J. Jernigan, but when she walks in on him up to no good with her maid of honor the night of the rehearsal dinner, all bets are off.  She throws a huge, snuff-box throwing hissy fit and rides off in a big yellow caddy with Will Mahoney. Will has just bought the failing Loving Cup bra company that employs many of Madison's residents and a ramshackle plantation house that he plans to completely refurbish in order to make a woman he has never met fall in love with him.<br /><br />Of course, Keeley is an interior designer and the wedding debacle has caused the Jernigan's, who own the largest bank in town, to blackball her business, so she is forced to take the job of making over the entire mansion within six months.  Over the course of the book, Will hooks up with his lady love, who has entirely different ideas of what the house should be than Keeley does, and A.J. begs Keeley's forgiveness and asks for one more chance.<br /><br />Wound throughout the novel is the sad story of Keeley's mother, Jeanine, who ran off with another man 25 years ago and never saw her husband or daughter again.  Her disappearance has scarred Keeley's life and she and her gay best friend, Austin, are determined to find out where Jeanine went so that both she and her father can find closure.<br /><br />I loved this book and finished it within a day; once I started reading, the pages seemed to turn themselves. There is a little bit of everything here: love, heartbreak, mystery, revenge, and good, old-fashioned storytelling.  I had never read Mary Kay Andrews before, but you can bet that HISSY FIT won't be my last book by her!	2004-08-17
US	52866174	REAEOD5X4YH4L	1400051061	711016590	Waking Beauty: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A story of revenge and self-realization	Imagine that you are an overweight, unattractive woman whose life revolves around your job as a cleaning lady, your patronizing roommate, and your unrequited crush on the average man of your dreams. Allison Penny's life is like this...she turns to food for solace, has an adoptive father who has cut her out of his life, and an alcoholic mother who just can't be nice.<br /><br />Now imagine that you wake up one morning transformed into a beautiful goddess-like creature. What would you do? You'd probably do what Allison does...buy some sexy new clothes, used your newfound power to seduce men, and exact some revenge on the people who tormented you when you were, well, not so attractive.<br /><br />The problem is that Allison is still an insecure, plain person on the inside and has to balance that out with her gorgeous appearance which is easier said than done.<br /><br />After she embarks on a plan to steal her mean roommate's boyfriend, confront her father, and ruin her mother, she discovers some revelations about her prior life that shatter her. Can she figure out who she really is and will she find love with the rich, handsome power-player or her Average Joe, Nathan?<br /><br />This is a dark and sometimes depressing look at how your life would remain very much the same even if it changed for the better overnight...but a story well-told!	2004-08-12
US	52866174	R29LV7X029F27N	0966036646	529384099	Understanding Women with AD/HD	Books	5	82	83	N	N	Ultimate AD/HD resource for women	No matter what stage of your life you're in, you will find relevant information to help understand the effect that AD/HD has on you.  From college/single life to pregnancy and motherhood, topics like medication, hormonal influence, independence, and sexuality will will help to open the doors of this often misunderstood disorder.<br /><br />Since women usually have inattentive ADD rather than the typical hyperactive, the authors have, in the beginning of the book, expanded upon the criteria for diagnosing AD/HD in women and have created a symptom inventory check-list tailored for women.  I found this to be truly a breath of fresh air as I could really relate to the points presented.<br /><br />Sections include: Diagnosis of AD/HD In Women, Medical Issues for Women With AD/HD, Non-Medical Treatment for Women with AD/HD, Associated Disorders in Women with AD/HD, Support From the Environment, Life Stages for Women with AD/HD, and issues and Challenges For Women With AD/HD.<br /><br />This book is a wealth of information and I highly recommend it!	2004-08-12
US	52866174	R1QHB3OG8O4A59	0743256123	667563989	Grosse Pointe Girl: Tales from a Suburban Adolescence	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Suburban life at it's best	Spanning the years of Emma Harris's middle school to 10-year reunion experience, GROSSE POINTE GIRL is a short, yet revealing look at adolescence.  Remember the days of 'going' with someone, terrifying, yet hopeful school dances, and navigating the dangerous waters of female friendships?  It's all captured here in snapshot form.<br />Grosse Pointe is a suburb of Detroit and after Emma's parents divorce, she is living on the fringes of the affluent area of town.  During the course of the book she ditches her best friend for the popular crowd, gets ditched by the popular crowd, loses her virginity, finds true friendship and love, and learns the meaning of loss.<br />The writing is spare, but it allows you to see through to the rigidity and sameness of adolescence and suburban life.	2004-06-28
US	52866174	R2XOUP0IV5CU13	0609810200	691661807	Queen of This Realm	Books	5	24	25	N	N	No one writes historical fiction like Jean Plaidy	Queen of This Realm is one of Plaidy's best novels; a complete fictional look at the youth and reign of Queen Elizabeth I.  Written as a memoir by Queen Elizabeth, you will learn about her first scandalous love affair with her step-mother, Katherine Parr's, husband and the following life-long, unconsummated love of her life, Robert Dudley.  Love and betrayal were all a part of the Queen's life and it often reads like a soap opera!<br />Queen Elizabeth was bold, highly intelligent, supremely vain, and one of the greatest monarchs of England.  You will be taken in and enthralled by the story of her close calls with execution at the hand of her sister, Queen Mary, and her fascination with and eventual execution of her cousin, Mary Stuart, Queen of Scotland, who plotted to claim the English throne as her own for most of her life (her story is told in Royal Road To Fotheringay to be reissued Fall 2004).<br />This is a stellar novel; you won't believe how fascinating history can be to read until you've read Plaidy!  She has written over 50 books, most of which are out of print, but can be found in libraries and online.  Once you start reading her, you can't stop!	2004-06-27
US	52866174	R2PTHUFZCWW410	0446533041	975506815	Good Grief	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A novel of overcoming loss	Sophie has just lost her husband of three years to cancer and is drowning in her loss.  She can't imagine life without her husband and begins to spiral out of control until one day, she goes to work in her bathrobe and slippers, not caring who sees her or what happens.  Diagnosed with a depressive breakdown, Sophie decides to sell her house and moved to Ashland, OR to be near her best friend.<br />There she finds a new job in a restaurant and takes on the role of Big Sister to Crystal, a 13-year old girl who's mother pays no attention to her and who sets fires and injures herself for release.  She also begins clumsily dating again and meets Drew, a Shakespearean actor who threatens to sweep her off her feet.  In the process of taking care of the people she cares about, including Crystal, Ruth (her friend), and her Mother-In-Law Marion, who has Alzheimer's, she begins to find new strength and a will to persevere after her loss.<br />Lolly Winston has written many moving scenes of grief that will resonate with you...when Sophie unthinkingly donates her living room furniture to Goodwill rather than the boxes of Ethan's belongings that she meant to, you will want to take her in your arms and try to convince her that everything will work out.<br />Sophie also lost her mother to a car accident when she was 13, and Winston nicely wove her feelings about that loss into the thread of the story.  From the book jacket, I was expecting to read a comedic novel, and while there are some funny moments in the book, all in all, it was more touching and poignant than anything else.	2004-06-27
US	52866174	R160L0LYNE7K13	1400051886	436479909	Within Arm's Reach: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A touching and revealing family saga	I feel very fortunate to have received an advance reading copy of Ann Napolitano's first novel WITHIN ARM'S REACH.  Once I started, I coudn't put it down...I was swept into the story of the McLaughlins, an Irish-American family who are all struggling with their own personal demons.<br />The story is told from six points of view that all wind neatly into one another to form the crux of the novel which is this: sometimes family can be too bound together.  In this case, they are bound by control issues and the need to show strength at the cost of intimacy at all times.<br />Catherine is the matriarch of the family who's father was a successful hotel manager and mother hid in the closet with a rosary during thunderstorms and spoke with invisible family members.  She spends her life married to a man who doesn't make her happy, but who communes with her mother in way that she never could.  After the deaths of three of her children, she unconsciously witholds the affection that the rest of them need in favor of holding them at arm's length with the fear that she might lose the others.<br />Kelly is Catherine's oldest living daughter who is struggling with conflicting feelings about her mother and dealing with a pregnant, unmarried daughter.  She and her husband are drifting apart and she doesn't know why.<br />Louis is Kelly's husband who is living with the guilt that one of the men who worked for him died on the job when he fell from the roof of a house he was working on.  He feels that he is somehow responsible and must make it up to the man's widow and family.  In the process of obsessing about this, he is becoming estranged from his wife, Kelly, and blind to what is going on in his own family.<br />Noreen Ballen is the widow of the man who died under Louis's watch.  As a nurse at the hospital where Catherine is taken on several occasions, she has the opportunity to get to know the family and eventually leaves her job to become a caretaker for Catherine.  She is grieving over the loss of her husband and learns to let go of her pain and worry about her children through experiences with the McLaughlin family.<br />Lila is Kelly and Louis's younger daughter, a medical student who feels she is drifting through life at the same time that she is working so hard to become something she isn't sure she wants to be.  She is abrupt and unpersonable, but learns that she can feel and be a caring person by following her instincts and living a life that she wants to live.<br />Gracie is at the middle of the story, Kelly and Louis's older daughter...she prefers casual sexual flings to intimacy and relationships.  When she becomes pregnant, the entire family is thrown into a state of chaos because she is to be a single mother after her 'boyfriend' returns to his ex-girlfriend.  As everyone tries to come to grips with the fact that she will be having this baby, their personal stories come to the forefront and you begin to learn why the family has been bound by pain and how they learn to let it go.<br />Napolitano's lyrical writing style and dreamy scenes of the shadows of family ancestors help to bring the family's struggle with each other and their legacy of estrangement to the forefront of the story.  Where the past and the present collide  is where they will find healing within arm's reach.g over the loss of her husband and learns to let go of her pain and worry about her children through experiences with the McLaughlin family.<br />Lila is Kelly and Louis's younger daughter, a medical student who feels she is drifting through life at the same time that she is working so hard to become something she isn't sure she wants to be.  She is abrupt and unpersonable, but learns that she can feel and be a caring person by following her instincts and living a life that she wants to live.<br />Gracie is at the middle of the story, Kelly and Louis's older daughter...she prefers casual sexual flings to intimacy and relationships.  When she becomes pregnant, the entire family is thrown into a state of chaos because she is to be a single mother after her 'boyfriend' returns to his ex-girlfriend.  As everyone tries to come to grips with the fact that she will be having this baby, their personal stories come to the forefront and you begin to learn why the family has been bound by pain and how they learn to let it go.<br />Napolitano's lyrical writing style and dreamy scenes of the shadows of family ancestors help to bring the family's struggle with each other and their legacy of estrangement to the forefront of the story.  Where the past and the present collide  is where they will find healing within arm's reach.	2004-06-26
US	52866174	R3SCKX82GVXX8K	0312286449	862049541	Desert Places	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Guaranteed to unnerve	I've never been into the slasher/thriller genre, but when I read the synopsis of this debut novel by Blake Crouch, I had to try it...and I'm glad I did!<br />Andrew Thomas is a successful writer of, what else, thrillers who has just completed his latest novel and is living his dream life.  All that changes when he receives an anonymous note that directs him to the body of a missing teacher - who is buried on his property and covered in his blood.  What follows is a descent into desperation and murder that will surely chill you.  There is also an interesting subtext about the difference between the desire to kill that is in people's hearts and the people who actually commit the murder that's in their hearts.<br />While there were some horrifying scenes of carnage in the story, it is the randomness of the victims and emotions of the captors that will make you want to make sure you're locks are bolted.  The only complaint I have is that the ending was a little too pat...while reading the conclusion, I could definitely envision the story as a typical Hollywood slasher movie.<br />Other than that, if you are looking for a book to raise your hackles, then look no further.  The scariest part is that this is a book of potential reality - and the fact that there really are sick people capable of committing these crimes out in the world is what chilled me the most.	2004-06-13
US	52866174	RTCN7BBOJYNEN	1892127369	409824718	Making Gift Scrapbooks in a Snap: 20 Perfect Presents for Family and Friends	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A must have for those who prefer to give personal gifts	There is nothing more appreciated than a gift from the heart, and making a keepsake scrapbook for a family member, friend, or really just about anyone who touches your life is a gift that will be treasured.<br />MAKING GIFT SCRAPBOOKS IN A SNAP is an indispensable book for ideas for small themed scrapbooks and for techniques (which many experienced scrappers will probably already know about) to include on the pages.  However, for someone crunched for time, or a simple scrapper like myself, having step-by-step instructions to follow is exactly what is needed.<br />Some ideas included in the book are: year-in-review, bridal shower/wedding, timeline (i.e. for a pregnancy or baby's first year), family history, calendar of events, memorial, ABC albums, children's storybooks, altered books, and a brag book; but really, this is just the tip of the iceberg in terms of themes presented.<br />With 20 projects included and an additional 50 album ideas to inspire you, you will never be at a loss for ideas to show those close to you how much you care.	2004-06-13
US	52866174	R2JWH29TMGPQJH	0809166496	514436278	What If the Zebras Lost Their Stripes?	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An important message for any age	It's never to early to teach your child the importance of harmony and tolerance and this little book is a great place to start.  When some zebras lose their white stripes and others their black stripes, they must look inside themselves and each other to learn to get along.<br />I especially appreciated the very last page which placed the zebras with many children of different races and nationalities so that my 5-year old and I could talk about the differences in people, too.	2004-06-12
US	52866174	R1Q20W3QFLX6U5	0060008032	568824372	Angels	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Funny, yet poignant, story	Marian Keyes is fast becoming one of my favorite authors.  Her prose is cuttingly humorous, but she still knows how to keep it grounded and provide a thoughtful story.<br />In ANGELS, Maggie Garvan is shocked to find that her husband has been cheating on her and quickly accepts an invitation to stay with her friend Emily in L.A. in order to get away from it all for a month.  While there, she decides to explore her wild side, have a few flings of her own, and track down an ex-boyfriend who dumped her long ago.  What she finds is the truth about her feelings for her husband and freedom from a tragic past that has been holding her back.<br />I couldn't stop turning the pages of Maggie's story and am now anxious to read both Watermelon and Rachel's Vacation which tell the stories of two of her sisters.  As a side note, I hope that Keyes will also write stories about her other sisters, Anna and Helen as they, along with her mother and father, provide quite a bit of comic relief to the book!  I highly recommend this along with any other Marian Keyes book.	2004-06-08
US	52866174	R3MS8QOKHC6CV0	1400047927	518459578	Queen Bees and Wannabes: Helping Your Daughter Survive Cliques, Gossip, Boyfriends, and Other Realities of Adolescence	Books	5	14	16	N	N	If you have a school-age daughter, you need this book.	I agree with 'A Reader from Washington D.C.' when she says that cliques shouldn't keep anyone from doing what they want to do and that a young girl shouldn't let the Queen Bees or any of her minions define her...but the unfortunate reality is that most middle/high school girls are living in the present and can't see to the future where all those school hierarchies will be just a distant memory.<br />With that in mind, I think that QUEEN BEES &amp; WANNABES is a must have book for parents, especially mothers, navigating the world of adolescent girls and all it has to offer.  Far from telling parents to act like your daughter's best friend, it offers excellent advice and samples on how to talk TO her at her level and not AT her at yours so that she will be more comfortable sharing her life with you, especially since so many tweens and teens are prone to clamming up totally in the presence of their parents.<br />It offers descriptions of each component of the clique, from the Queen Bee and her Sidekick, to the Wannabe and the Target.  In the process of explaining the complicated politics of school-age girls, it opened my eyes to some of the things that went on when I was in school and allowed me to view some of my experiences through that lens.<br />The end of the book has a very valuable section on dealing with your daughter and boys...why some boys act the way they do, their motivations, and danger signs to look for in someone your daughter may be dating.<br />I think that the reason this book is so enlightening is because of the research the author did with adolescent girls...she took many of the suggestions they made and used them to formulate her tactics for parent/daughter communication.  The quotes included in the book are both horrifying and poignant and will help to re-open your eyes to the reality of teenage life.	2004-06-08
US	52866174	R3QWNGS922V41L	1581803176	19258691	Creative Correspondence	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Never send a boring letter again!	You will be itching to send someone a letter after you read about and practice the paper crafting techniques presented in this book.  And as a bonus, not only can you use them to create unique correspondence, but you can also use them in your scrapbooks, art journals, or altered books!  Basic collage, painting techniques, paper cutting, and stamping ideas are presented with step-by-step instructions that are illustrated with detailed photographs so that you will make no mistake while putting these works of art together.<br />So get out that list of people you've been meaning to write to and just haven't gotten around to doing.  You'll have a blast and they will appreciate the beautiful mail you send them.	2003-12-14
US	52866174	R2XKVTZRXD3AH	1579903681	785185791	Making Crafts from Your Kids' Art	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Fun and functional ways to display your kids artwork	Like me, you probably have overflowing boxes of artwork that your kids have proudly brought home from school that you can't bear to throw away.  Valerie Van Arsdale Schrader to the rescue with her book MAKING CRAFTS FROM YOUR KIDS ART.<br />From easy to difficult, there is something here for everyone of every crafting level to try.  The directions are step-by-step with accompanying photos to show you the original child's art as compared to the finished display product.<br />Some of the projects included are:  cup & saucer printed with artwork, a magnetic message board, postcards, a canvas bag print, wrapping paper, tin frame, silk pillow, and even floor throws and wainscoting!  Be forewarned that for many of the more involved projects you will need computer access, drills, heavy-duty cutting equipment like hacksaws, and for one, even an electric glass grinder!  Fortunately, most of the cuter projects only require photocopies and transfer paper to work.	2003-12-12
US	52866174	R1ID742O9SWC0C	0451210980	493226953	Bachelorette #1	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Top of the line chick lit	When Sarah Holmes is assigned to write an undercover expose on reality dating shows, she is reluctant to go as she is a 34 year old married mom.  After a little persuasion, the promise of a complete makeover, and the blessing of her husband, she decides to leave her family for 5 weeks in order to get the dirt on the women who put themselves through the elimination process.<br />What she doesn't expect is to find friendships with her fellow contestants or discover that she has feelings for 'The Stag.'  Over the course of the book, you will find yourself laughing out loud at her self-deprecating humor and relating to her inner turmoil as she tries to discover who she really is.  Is she only a thirtysomething stay-at-home mom or is she still the vibrant, goal-oriented, and fun woman she was before marriage and motherhood?<br />You will truly forge a bond with Sarah as she attempts to be the last one standing on 'The Stag' and finds herself in the process.	2003-12-12
US	52866174	R3FY6LIODMVH3U	1564969959	580229281	Altered Books, Collaborative Journals, and Other Adventures in Bookmaking	Books	5	40	42	N	N	Some books are for more than reading...	While the art of altering books has been around for awhile, it is just now becoming a creative trend, and deservedly so.  This is an art where you can release your innermost creative desires to express whatever you feel onto the pages of a book.<br />ALTERED BOOKS, COLLABORATIVE JOURNALS, AND OTHER ADVENTURES IN BOOKMAKING will help to make your journey a little easier if you are beginning and give you inspiration if you're more advanced.  The full-color photographs are beautiful and give you a little taste of the variety of things that you can do with this medium.<br />Chapters include ideas for type of books to work with, things you can do in your book (collages, niches, transfers, ink, etc.), and goes on to more involved projects like rebinding your own books and joining round robins.<br />All in all, you will gean a wealth of information from this book from both it's gorgeous pictures and fantastic ideas.	2003-11-10
US	52866174	R6SC10CWGO6FT	1892127202	389350125	Quick & Easy Scrapbook Pages (Memory Makers)	Books	5	43	45	N	N	Great techniques for the time challenged scrapper!	Overwhelmed by the amount of pictures you need to scrap?  Wondering where in the heck you'll find the time to complete them all?  Wonder no more...Memory Makers has come to the rescue! In this comprehensive and layout laden book of quick and easy ideas, you'll find tips for design, layout, and embellishment of your pages that will take less than an hour, but make it look as though you spent days laboring over your work.  With ideas for borders, mats, lettering, paper tearing, stitching, stamping, and so much more, you'll whiz through your pictures and come up with an absolutely beautiful album.	2003-10-29
US	52866174	R39VHSKP0OQ3CG	0142002798	435397103	Mary, Called Magdalene	Books	5	67	71	N	N	An imaginative telling of Mary Magdalene's life	After reading The DaVinci Code, I became very interested in Mary Magdalene and her place in history.  While she is not cast in the same role as in TDC (which I won't divulge here for those who haven't read the book), I almost like her place in this telling better.  She is written as a strong woman who after many years of struggling between possession by pagan gods and her faith in God, is healed by Jesus and becomes one of his disciples.<br />Since no one knows the true story of MM, Margaret George had to create an entire life for her, giving her the roles of daughter in a pious Jewish family, wife of a man she questions her love for, mother to a daughter whom she conceived after making a deal with one of her pagan possessors, and loyal friend to a girl who follows a different branch of Judaism of which her family doesn't approve.<br />The book starts out slowly laying a foundation for Mary's life, but read on.  After she initially meets Jesus when she is a young girl and finds the idol that becomes the source of her possession problems, things begin to pick up speed.  The second half of the book is about her life as a disciple of Jesus and the Passion from her viewpoint.  It's also about her undying love for her daughter who was taken from her at the age of two after she began following Jesus and her family disowned her.<br />As usual, George has done an incredible amount of research into her subject and has written yet another fictional biography that will take you to another world.	2003-10-29
US	52866174	R2QA0992WQJJYQ	1592400353	398579384	Eva Cassidy: Songbird: Her Story by Those Who Knew Her	Books	5	68	68	N	N	Tragic story of an unbelievable talent	If you haven't heard Eva Cassidy sing, then you need to go to your closest music store and pick up her CD, also titled Songbird for an introduction to one of the most underrated beautiful voices I've ever heard.  After you hear this music, I guarantee you'll want to buy every one of her CDs that has been released.<br />There is a power and raw emotional edge to her voice that sends chills down my spine and almost makes me feel as though she is singing directly to me.  The tragedy of Eva Cassidy's life is that she was struck down by invasive melanoma at the age of 33 and we are left to wonder what might have been.<br />Reading this book, which is loaded with family photographs, has helped to fill in the blanks of her life...I wasn't aware that she was also a talented artist.  This is just a beautiful tribute to a pure-voiced singer whose life was cut too short.	2003-10-09
US	52866174	R2FA1D3US6FUPU	1929180128	604221626	Mom's Little Book of Photo Tips	Books	5	1	1	N	N	You *can* take fun, spontaneous pictures of your kids	If the pictures you take of your children usually end up looking unnaturally posed or all seem to look alike, then this book is for you!  It's packed full of tips for taking childrens' pictures that tell stories.  Beyond the &quot;say cheese&quot; photos, you will find ideas such as using props, framing your subjects, fun and/or unusual poses, action shots, and how to use lighting in a general way.  There is no technical jargon and all ideas can be used with a basic point and shoot camera.  With a little practice and this handy little guide, you will be creating eye candy for your albums in no time!	2003-09-11
US	52866174	RU0FKXXDCJFY6	0316168688	744408823	The Dogs of Babel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Not what I was expecting	I kept putting off reading this book because the premise sounded kind of dumb to me - a man tries to teach his dog to speak after his wife dies in an apparent accident.  Little did I know that it would turn out to be a romantic, wistful, and tragic story of love and loss.<br />After Paul's wife Lexy dies falling from a tree, he decides to try to teach their dog, Lorelei, to speak since she is the only creature to have witnessed Lexy's fall and know if it was an accident or suicide.  Through the process, we learn of Paul and Lexy's courtship and marriage in flashbacks that are telling of her state of mind.<br />As we read about their relationship, it becomes clear that Lexy has emotional problems that Paul isn't quite equipped to deal with and that she is reluctant to talk about.  She becomes depressed and has violent moments that contrast with the free-spirited woman he married.<br />In his quest to find out what happened at her death, Paul finds himself mixed up in an underground group of scientists who are mutilating dogs in their attempts to get them to speak.<br />The two stories come together in an ending that tells of the love Lexy had for her husband, even beyond death.	2003-09-10
US	52866174	R26204TLZYZWOD	0971729603	650362090	The Art Doll Chronicles: A Collaborative Journey of Discovery	Books	5	19	19	N	N	A  gorgeous book you'll turn to again and again	This lavishly illustrated, full-color book starts out with the creation of nine art dolls and their makers. Every detail of the beautiful dolls is shown up close with general commentary on how they were put together.<br />The completed dolls were then sent on a 19-month journey from artist to artist and their travels were recorded in art journals that are also splendidly displayed in the pages of the book. The amount of creativity within both the dolls and the journals is staggering - I can't even put the proper words to it. This is one art book you will never regret buying.	2003-09-10
US	52866174	R194G7R8DDZOWG	0971729638	456812241	True Colors: A Palette of Collaborative Art Journals	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Simply Breathtaking.	Don't let the price of this fabulous book by Somerset Studio (also a fantastic magazine!) fool you - it's worth every penny and more.  It's 288 pages are crammed full of lavish, full-color photographs of sixteen collaborative art journals, each with it's own color theme, that were passed from artist to artist to fill with their personal visions.  The artwork is of the highest caliber and you will be continually amazed at the level of creativity.  If this doesn't push you to higher levels with your own artwork, nothing will!	2003-09-09
US	52866174	R25YKMRT6EE498	0971729603	650362090	The Art Doll Chronicles: A Collaborative Journey of Discovery	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Gorgeous book you'll turn to again &amp; again!	This lavishly illustrated, full-color book starts out with the creation of nine art dolls and their makers.  Every detail of the beautiful dolls is shown up close with general commentary on how they were put together.<br />The completed dolls were then sent on a 19-month journey from artist to artist and their travels were recorded in art journals that are also splendidly displayed in the pages of the book.  The amount of creativity within both the dolls and the journals is staggering - I can't even put the proper words to it. This is one art book you will never regret buying.	2003-09-09
US	52866174	R16GBFB5DL79HM	0446390380	956544281	Journal to the Self: Twenty-Two Paths to Personal Growth - Open the Door to Self-Understanding by Writing, Reading, and Creating a Journal of Your Life	Books	5	66	71	N	N	Be your own therapist.	Some people seem to have the natural ability to spill their thoughts onto paper without feeling self-conscious.  Others, like me, need a little direction when putting pen to paper, and this is where JOURNAL TO THE SELF comes in.<br />The book presents many ways to express yourself in a journal including: character sketches, captured moments, dialogue, lists, unsent letters, and stream of consciousness among others.  Using these methods, you will work through problems and gain greater self-awareness as well as purge yourself of any problems in your life that you feel you can't talk to anyone about.<br />For those who think they can't fit journaling into their day, all of the exercises in the book can be done in as little as 15 minutes a day or expanded into writing sessions as long as you need them to be.<br />Journaling is truly one of the best and least expensive ways to get to know yourself better, and maybe solve a few problems in the process.	2003-09-07
US	52866174	RXGKTEN9TRTBU	0375415475	615727843	Family History	Books	5	3	4	N	N	This one will remain with you long after reading.	A powerful story about the seemingly happy Jensen family - Rachel, an art restorer, Ned, an artist who put his dreams on hold to become a teacher to support his family, and Katie, their much-loved daughter.  All is well until Rachel becomes pregnant at the age of 39 and Katie's jealousy erupts out-of-control.  She becomes sullen and withdrawn and over the course of the book, two of her unthinking acts of attention getting will shatter their family.<br />Rachel's pure love for her children, no matter what, will touch a chord with any mother and her longing for her dissolving marriage will break your heart.  Her 'I don't care' attitude with the other mothers who shun her because of her family's problems is easily seen through and will make you want to reach out and be her friend.<br />I read this book in one day - a huge accomplishment with two little ones of my own to care for - but I cared so much about the characters and what happened to them that I grabbed every moment I could to read.	2003-09-02
US	52866174	R3VYJPY7RF9PNS	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Newly among my top 10 favorites!	Not being much for thrillers, I was hesitant to start reading this book.  After the first few chapters, I was riveted and couldn't put it down!<br />The premise of the plot is the search for the murderer of the curator of the Louvre who was found under extremely suspicious conditions.  It takes off from there into a story filled with riddles, ciphers, and twists in the search for the Holy Grail.  While most people think of the Grail as the cup from which Jesus drank at the last supper (as did I), in this tale, the supposition is quite surprising.  You will learn much about gnosticism, Leonardo DaVinci's works, and goddess worship while you're trying to decipher the clues that lead to the murderer.  More than anything, the story of the Knights Templar, the Opus Dei (both religious organizations), and the search for the lost goddess kept me turning the pages.<br />I can't recommend this captivating novel enough.  After thinking that it would be nothing special, it's now among my top 10 favorite books - and I read a lot!	2003-09-02
US	52866174	RMUXP15GFPYWM	0525947248	682274061	The Other Woman	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Another great one from EJD	The unnamed protagonist and her husband Charles were once blissfully in love and two against the world.  Now, the demands of her reporting career have helped them drift apart in this novel of love, betrayal, and revenge.  When she keeps receiving strange messages at work, she finally calls the man responsible and finds out that Charles is having an affair with his wife.<br />In her grief and rage, she confronts Charles, who admits to the affair, but says that it's over and Jessica never mattered to him.  While searching for reasons and clues to their relationship, she stumbles into her own affair with David, Jessica's husband.  So, the trick is from here to find out who's using who!  The story comes to a crashing, revengeful ending that will have you holding your breath - don't read ahead! Another great part of the book is her relationship with her best friend - I don't know how Eric Jerome Dickey knows so much about female relationships, but he's got the dynamics dead on.<br />The dialogue flows throughout with lots of sexual references and street language which I think helped me to get into the characters better - I really knew what they were thinking and feeling.	2003-09-02
US	52866174	R3QN3Q3GW7OLXY	038550926X	167500313	The Devil Wears Prada: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Fun, light read	I thoroughly enjoyed THE DEVIL WEARS PRADA.  Written in the vein of The Nanny Diaries, it is an insider's look at the stress-filled, not-so-glamourous world of fashion magazines.  The protagonist, Andrea, is an aspiring writer who dreams of working at The New Yorker and is willing to give up a year of her life to tortuous servitude for the supremely self-involved editor of fictional Runway magazine, Miranda Priestly.<br />She becomes the junior assistant to Miranda and soon finds that her life will be lived for this lunatic for the next 12 months.<br />She is at her beck and call 24 hours a day for the most mundane and twisted things you can think of.  In the meantime, she begins to neglect her family, burgeoning alcoholic best friend, Lily, and too-perfect boyfriend, Alex.<br />Like The Nanny Diaries, you won't believe the things that Andrea is required to do for her boss in THE DEVIL WEARS PRADA.  It's a fun summer read with a predictable ending, however you will still find yourself rooting for Andrea and cheering when she finally stands up for herself.	2003-06-22
US	52866174	RNMJK0NVOI889	0060938455	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	5	1	2	N	N	An eye opening expose of the fast food industry...	but not only that, but an expose of the meat-packing industry and of how huge corporate conglomerations are causing the nation to be put at risk for food-borne disease and dirt-poor working conditions.  Since the rapid spread of fast food in the US and abroad, the major meat-packing industries have all but run out of business independent cattle and poultry farmers - Chicago's famous butchering yards, once a high-paying, unionized place of employment, lay abandoned while filthy, speed-obsessed, factory lines (employed for the most part by illiterate illegal aliens) carelessly churn out the meat for both home and restaurant consumption.<br />The politics behind the large chains is amazing, too.  I never expected to read about how the large restaurant chains are buying off politicians in order to block legislation that would protect workers and health regulations from going through.  OSHA is basically nonexistent in the workplaces and the FDA and USDA have little or no control over what is being consumed by the masses.  Did you know that the head honcho meat packers use the lowest grade meat to supply the federal school lunch program?  And that they have actively opposed legislation that would benefit the children of these schools regarding the food they eat?  These are some of the things you'll learn by reading this brilliant book - it's so much more than a book about fast food restaurants - it's a look at the sorry state of the world today.	2003-06-19
US	52866174	R1H3BJZ16P4MF1	1892127210	262314824	Creative Paper Techniques for Scrapbooks (Memory Makers)	Books	5	46	47	N	N	Make art in your scrapbooks...	Part of the fun of creating scrapbooks is the paper crafting aspect of the art.  While cropping pictures adds form to your pages, it's the embellishments that make the pages pop.  Some like to go crazy and some take the simple approach - and that's exactly what you can do with paper crafting.<br />You can go with the basic paper chains, tearing, and collage to more challenging weaving, quilling, and kirigami (Japanese paper cutting.)  The instructions are all laid out here in an easy-to-follow format that will have you making paper masterpieces in no time at all!  Some other techniques included are: pull-apart designs, cutting details into layered designs, louvers, bargellos, irises, pleats, and paper tole.<br />Whether a beginner or a more advanced crafter, you'll have no problem finding a technique to meet your needs - have fun!	2003-06-14
US	52866174	R5NQLZ6WR4SSO	1930586353	777492261	Most Likely to Succeed: How to Assure Your Child's Success in School	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Help your child be the best that she can be!	If you've ever wondered if there's anything more that you can be doing to help your child get a leg up in school, then you need to get this book!  The author is a former teacher, principal, professor, state dept. of education official, and is the mother of an autistic son - she knows the secrets of helping a child to excel!<br />The book is laid out in a point-by-point format which makes for easy reading - you can pick out the ideas you'd like to implement and work them into your life right away.  In addition to subject skills, there are also ways to boost test taking and homework skills, volunteerism of parents within the school, health and safety issues, and funding for higher education.  There is also a section for parents of 'special' kids, including those with learning disabilities, latchkey children, and kids who work.  Most importantly, there is a chapter dedicated to working with school officials, which may be one of the best things that you can do for you child - knowing and having a relationship with the people who are caring for and influencing your children all day is the best way to stay on par with how they are growing.<br />In the five appendices you get a complete list of education organizations, titles for further reading, award-winning children's literature, and an exhaustive list of resources, including websites, museums, publications, state education officers, and helpful phone numbers.<br />From preschool to college, you will find what you need to know about making the most of your child's education in this book.  It is more than worth it's price - it's sure to be a book you'll reference for years to come.	2003-06-06
US	52866174	R1ES9AAEAXO8J7	1579902995	523546184	The Decorated Page: Journals, Scrapbooks & Albums Made Simply Beautiful	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Be stimulated to create!	I journal in the straightforward way with a lined journal, pen, and my thoughts.  While I enjoy getting my words and impressions on paper, I often feel as if there is something missing from my memories - that there is something I can be doing to make my journals go from being average to amazing.<br />Enter THE DECORATED PAGE...you will be challenged to create  lasting pieces of artwork within your journal pages and in the process evoke more feelings then you ever thought possible.  I have often seen books with creative journalers' pages presented in a &quot;look-see&quot; kind of way, but never thought I'd be capable of making such pages myself.<br />Gwen Diehn presents lists of supplies you need to get started and many methods of creating within your pages such as mandalas, cut-outs, grids, and others.  She also shows different ways to present your thoughts within your writing.  You will be inspired to use this book as a springboard for your own artistic and thought-provoking journal entries.	2003-03-10
US	52866174	R3SBTBTBJ1TR2K	1892127237	723127084	Scrapbook Journaling Made Simple (Memory makers)	Books	5	67	67	N	N	Learn to describe, not tell, the stories in your scrapbooks	If you find it difficult to &quot;let go&quot; when you are journaling in your scrapbooks - and by that, I mean using your senses while writing in order to feel the moment, rather than just telling the facts - then you will want to invest in a copy of SCRAPBOOK JOURNALING MADE SIMPLE.<br />In addition to simple methods of writing down your information (including: bullet, dictionary, timeline, recipe, poetic, and acrostic journaling, among others) you'll get a list of descriptive words that can really punch up your writing, questions to reflect on while deciding what to say about your pictures, interviewing techniques, and ways to overcome writer's block. Also included are ways to use journaling creatively in your pages, journaling without photos,  and methods for adding journaling to crowded or finished pages.<br />Anyone can journal just as well as the artists who produce such amazing and touching pages in scrapbooking magazines.  All it takes is the right tools and some practice!	2003-02-13
US	52866174	ROMQCG51ZCN4T	0802117007	821301490	The Siege: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Take nothing for granted.	A novel about the siege of Leningrad by the Nazis in 1941.  Between Stalin's \\"big brother\\" society where every move and word is monitored and the Nazis death-grip of the city, the citizens of Leningrad are suffocating and starving to death.  They are blockaded in through the long, perpetually dark, subfreezing winter with no heat or food.<br />Anna is raising her young brother, Kolya, after her mother dies during his birth.  They and their father are lucky to have a small apartment to themselves in their communal society due to his higher status as a writer.  As the siege begins, they are joined by Marina, a former actress (and their father's former lover), and Andrei, a medical student who Anna loves.<br />After the stores of food meant to feed the millions of residents through the winter are burned by Nazis, Anna and the others are forced to boil leather and wallpaper paste for nutrition since their rations of 1 slice of bread per day are barely keeping them alive.  Not all of them will survive, but you will be rooting for all of them in this poetic, sad story that will make you feel very fortunate to have what you have.	2003-02-05
US	52866174	R2AEN0VJT8W9UL	0374199698	298109609	Middlesex: A Novel	Books	5	0	3	N	N	Gripping and touching at the same time.	This is the story of Calliope Stephinedes who is born a 5-Alpha-Reductase hermaphrodite. What this means is that although he was born and raised as a female (due to his anatomy), he actually possesses the hormones that make him male.<br />The novel starts with Lefty and Desdemona Stephinedes who are brother and sister-they flee Greece after the Turkish invasion and reinvent themselves as husband and wife in America where no one knows of their past (save the cousin they are living with).  Their son marries his cousin, thus keeping the recessive 5AR gene in the family, and gives birth to Callie/Cal.<br />The story starts with the establishment of the Stephinedes family in Detroit and gives a great mini-lesson on the history of urbanization and the roots of the civil rights movement as well as family history.  Once Callie is born, the story becomes very moving as he grows and enters puberty.  When he fails to develop normally as a female, his struggle to identify and accept himself is well-written.  The turning points are his relationship with the &quot;Obscure Object&quot; (his first female relationship) and sessions with the gender doctor which ultimately determine his choice of which life to live.<br />Great book, highly recommended!	2003-02-05
US	52866174	R3495MH75H4JUY	0312421036	998738670	Eva Moves the Furniture: A Novel	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A truly moving novel	There is a mystery to being a mother - the crux of which is the depth of undying and unconditional love possessed of your child.  Eve Troon lost her mother, Barbara, on the day of her birth, only knowing Barbara through the stories that her father and aunt, who was brought in as a surrogate mother, tell her.  She visits the grave almost daily with her father and sees Barbara as an almost mythical figure in her history.<br />Eva is visited frequently by her &quot;companions&quot; - the ghosts of a woman and girl who orchestrate nearly every eventful moment of her life.  They save her life, arrange meetings...and separations...with people she loves, and provide comfort when she is lonely.  What Eva doesn't know is why they are with her.  As she trains to be a nurse, faces heartbreak, marries and becomes a mother herself, the companions are always around at the times she needs them the most.<br />When Eva becomes a mother, she finds a sort of closure - she thinks - with Barbara.  Her limitless love for her daughter brought me to tears in the last pages, as it will for anyone who loves a child with all their heart and soul.<br />The first part of the book is a lot of back information, but read on - it's definitely worth it to put the pieces of the puzzle together in finding out exactly who the companions are and their significance in Eva's life.  You won't regret the journey.	2002-10-28
US	52866174	R3IIMM9TV045J8	0743411250	940771299	The Woman Next Door	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Should be titled &quot;The Insecure Women Next Door&quot;	Imagine that you are living a peaceful life with neighbors that you get along well with until one of them remarries a much younger woman then leaves her a widow.  The reclusive widow becomes pregnant and immediately each woman in the cul-de-sac suspects that her husband is the one who has done the deed.<br />Graham and Amanda O'Leary are having fertility problems and family pressure isn't making their life any easier.  Their story is a heartrending and accurate portrayal of the pain and loss of trying and failing to get pregnant.  However, Amanda's outright accusation of her husband of fathering Gretchen's baby didn't sit well with me.<br />Karen and Lee Cotter seem to have a good life with four children, a successful husband, and at-home mother...but Lee's constant philandering is undermining their happiness.  Karen is the only one who has a legitimate claim to suspicion.<br />Georgia and Russ Lange live a different lifestyle with Georgia being the main breadwinner of the family and Russ the at-home dad.  Since Georgia travels so extensively to promote her business, should she suspect that her husband is messing around with the woman next door?<br />There is a tense subplot about teen depression and suicide that is very well written and bodes well for the story, but while the plot of the book is interesting, my constant annoyance with the three wives followed me through the entire reading.	2002-08-29
US	52866174	R2HK82C9QRDXZD	0865734348	943934213	Baby Play (Gymboree)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Another awesome Gymboree play book!	Sometimes when you look at your infant, you may wonder...what can I do to entertain him...and myself?  This book is full of wonderful songs, games, and activities to foster the growth of your child's budding senses and motor skills.  It's broken down into sections of appropriate age games...the nice thing is that while it offers many fun and different songs and activities, it also tells you exactly what and how they are helping your child to develop.  Full of vibrant, color photographs, this book is, in my opinion, the best baby game manual on the market.  Look also for Toddler Play to continue the fun!	2002-07-29
US	52866174	R3P2AJOTZ4QOB3	0452279089	934990634	The Womanly Art of Breastfeeding: Sixth Revised Edition	Books	5	10	12	N	N	My breastfeeding bible!	Thank goodness for this comprehensive book on breastfeeding!  I have several others and none have given me the concrete knowledge and feeling of \\"I can do it\\" that this one has.  La Leche League is an organization that promotes attachment parenting and is obsessively pro-breastfeeding, but it you can get beyond the preachiness, you'll find that you have a sound, basic guide to all apects of nursing.<br />From bringing your newborn home to starting solids to weaning (including info on working, nursing multiples, and how fathers can bond) it's all here.  One of my own experiences: when I found a lump in one of my breasts while nursing, I consulted this book while waiting for my doctor appointment and was hugely relieved after reading about the rarity of cancer in nursing women and the explanations of several types of benign cysts it probably was.<br />I also especially like the section on the benefits of breastfeeding for both the infant and mother.  You will not find a better lay explanation of how breastmilk positively affects your baby anywhere, in my opinion.  I highly recommend this book for any nursing mother who has questions.  While, as I stated before, LLL is sometimes pushy in its advocacy of breastfeeding, they are also a wonderful resource.  I called our local chapter a few times and was met with pleasant enthusiasm and given wonderful advice.	2002-07-29
US	52866174	R2XO8MOPSYKO51	0375505172	279519616	April Witch: A Novel	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Good story, disappointing ending.	An &quot;April Witch&quot; is a person with a weak body and strong mind.  In this novel, Desiree, born with cerebral palsy to Ella and abandoned to the Swedish welfare state, has strengthened her mind to the point that she is a physicist and is able to communicate by puffing air into a special computer.  She is also able to leave her body and inhabit weaker beings in order to see the world that she has been denied by her wasted body.<br />After she abandoned Desiree, Ella took in three foster girls...Margareta, who was abandoned at birth and is now also a physicist, Birgitta, was psycologically abused by her mother and is now an alcoholic and junkie, and Christina, also abused by her mother who is a doctor at the institution where Desiree is housed.  After Ella suffers a stroke, the three girls are separated and Desiree believes that one of them is living the life that was destined for her.  Throw into the mix that she is also in love with her Dr., Hubertsson who has diabetes and doesn't take care of himself...and that he also knows all about her and her sisters' past.<br />The best parts of the book are the stories of Christina, Margareta, and Birgitta...their characters are fully developed and you really get to understand their lives and how they ended up in the positions they are in as adults.<br />I guess I didn't quite understand this story as we never do find out who is Desiree's &quot;lost life&quot; and the sisters never find out that Desiree exists...I don't think this will spoil the story for you because the it went on with this kind of plot of bringing the sisters together so that Desiree could reveal herself to them, but then it never happens.  I was disappinted because I really was enjoying the book and left hanging at the end.	2002-07-20
US	52866174	RYZYP1WO5H2CG	0736909672	318523771	After Anne (Coming Home to Brewster)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A story of real friendship.	This Christian based novel is the story of Olivia Marsden and her best friend Anne Abbott.  When they first meet, Olivia takes an instant disliking to Anne, but eventually overcomes her first impression to forge a strong and loving friendship with her.  Anne has a strong faith and forces Olivia to take a hard look at herself and her relationships with her family and other friends.<br />While Anne is pregnant with her first child, she finds a lump in her breast and this discovery will deepen the bonds between the women as they struggle together for hope and healing.  An excellent subplot (though it's a little too easily resolved) involves Olivia's son and drug use.  The story is told in the alternating voices of Olivia and Anne, so though the book looks long, the chapters are short...however, it was by no means an \\"easy\\" read as it is such an emotional story.<br />You will not expect the ending to this book and I won't give anything away except to say, cherish those you love now before you no longer have the chance.	2002-07-20
US	52866174	R1F9KYCYKI881E	0307440435	993436848	What's Heaven?	Books	5	47	53	N	N	A gentle introduction to the rituals of death.	This little book will do much to help a child begin to understand the enormity of death.  The point of it is not to argue whether there is a Heaven and whether everyone will go there, but to create a safe haven for children to ask questions and receive a little comfort.  I used this book to help explain to my 3-year old about my dad's death and used it simply as a tool, skipping over parts I thought she wouldn't understand and expanding on the ones I thought she would.  She has come through with the understanding that grandpa is in Heaven (and who is going to explain the complexities of the ideas Heaven and Hell to a 3-year old and frighten them in the process??) and that she will always have her memories of him in her heart to help keep him alive.  It also explains that it's OK to be sad and cry if it helps you to feel better about your loss.  My daughter has been comforted by that and that's all that matters.  This is a childrens' book, after all, geared toward childrens' understandings...not a theological debate.	2002-07-20
US	52866174	RLOZWPT1R43IB	0151006040	376354325	Odd Girl Out: The Hidden Culture of Aggression in Girls	Books	5	18	20	N	N	The truth finally brought to light.	The author has hit the nail right on the head in researching and writing this book about the crafty ways that girls (and women)manipulate and cause and resolve conflict with one another.  The testimonials are powerful and thought provoking...girls whose best friends are their worst enemies; girls who have no idea what they've done to make their friends angry, yet apologize all the same in order to save the relationship; parents who know that something is wrong, not knowing what they can do to help.  If you can't recall at least one major incident from your own youth along these lines, then you've lived an ideal childhood!<br />This is a book to be read and dicussed with your adolescent/teenage daughter.  Though it doesn't offer many concrete suggestions for helping girls to resolve conflict in a less backhanded manner, there are at least some suggestions for parents to use if they suspect their daughter is the victim of bullying. You will go away with a better understanding of why silent aggression is so prevalent among young girls...and you will also view your current female relationships through this lens to see how these actions mature along with you and never really go away.	2002-06-04
US	52866174	R2246LEV23GG7F	0737304944	762266435	Sweet Dreams : A Pediatrician's Secrets for Baby's Good Night's Sleep	Books	2	6	9	N	N	Attachment parenting taken to the limit.	While I utilize attachment parenting for my two children, I have not reached the level of fanaticism that Dr. Fleiss is advocating in his book SWEET DREAMS.  This isn't really a book with a clear method for helping your child to sleep through the night, but a series of reasons that may or may not be why your child cannot sleep soundly.  He then gives suggestions such as not artificially heating your home, but using a heavier comforter and warmer pajamas to keep nasal passages from drying out...then keeping a window open at all times.  Convenient for those of us who live in areas where the temperature can reach below zero in the winter. Another suggestion is that you conclude all daily activities by nightfall and avoid using artificial light so that you can work with your internal clock in setting a bedtime.  Fine if you want to go to bed at 5:30pm for half of the year.<br />I'm not saying that there aren't any usable ideas here, it just seems as if there isn't any middle ground for compromising on any of his suggestions.  The book assumes that most babies will be sleeping through the night by the age of 6 months...and that you should go to your child every time he cries in the meantime or he will be scarred forever.  I did go to my daughter every time she cried (every 2 hours!) until she was a year old at which time for my own sanity I had to put an end to it.  I used the Ferber method, she slept through the night 4 nights later, and has never looked back (she's 3 now).  And she has no noticable personality disorders to show for it, as Dr. Fleiss would assume.<br />I did like the section on co-sleeping, it is practical, informative, and backed by scientific research to show that it is not a leading cause of SIDS.  On the other hand, he is an extremely active proponent against circumcision.  We chose to circumcise our son, and reading Dr. Fleiss' diatribe against it made me feel like a neglectful mother...be forewarned if you have chosen to circumcise!  Again, there is no middle ground.<br />Like any other parenting book, it is worthwhile to read because everyone has their own parenting style.  In reading all the literature you can, whether you agree with it or not, you can choose to combine the suggestions that work best for you to construct your own methods for helping your children to grow.is no middle ground.<br />Like any other parenting book, it is worthwhile to read because everyone has their own parenting style.  In reading all the literature you can, whether you agree with it or not, you can choose to combine the suggestions that work best for you to construct your own methods for helping your children to grow.	2002-05-25
US	52866174	R3N0BL3URDEZG6	0553802100	416276614	Hannah's Gift: Lessons from a Life Fully Lived	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A beautiful and life-transforming story.	Thank you, Maria, for writing the touching story of your daughter's struggle and eventual succumb to cancer.  To have had such a joyful, honest, and open spirit in your life must have been amazing.  My daughter is now three years old and I often find myself trying to shape her into my mold of what is \\"correct\\" instead of letting her be what she wants to be, whether it's wearing her pink, sequined dress-up outfit all day or dancing in her underwear in the front yard.  I have been inspired to just let her be her 3-year old self and not worry about should be, but what is.<br />The prose in this book will suck you in and put you right at Hannah's bedside as she deteriorates.  You will feel everything her mother feels and I guarantee you won't finish with a dry eye. After you do finish, you will go to your children and hug them as tightly as you can, as I did...it was a compulsive feeling.<br />Thank you, Hannah, for being such a free spirit and for showing the rest of us what a life fully lived means.  It means putting yourself in the moment and taking every ounce of pleasure from it, no matter what anyone thinks.  I am going out today to buy Gabrielle some red mary janes!	2002-05-01
US	52866174	R1BLBMHMUW12PL	0786865377	914940406	Outsmarting the Female Fat Cell After Pregnancy: Every Woman's Guide to Shaping Up, Slimming Down, and Staying Sane After the Baby	Books	5	28	32	N	N	Learning self-nurturing and self-acceptance.	What a book!  I would highly recommend that every woman who is pregnant or has recently given birth own a copy of this informative and realistic guide to not only losing weight after having a baby, but learning to accept your body the way it is post-birth.  Debra Waterhouse gives real reasons why it's nearly impossible to lose all your baby weight in the first 6 months, let alone 6 weeks, that new moms seem to think it's possible to do.  It also busts the myth that breastfeeding moms will lose their weight faster than bottlefeeding counterparts - a total shock to me when I breastfed my first child for a year and still kept on 10 lbs. of pregnancy weight!  There are logical physical reasons for all this which are presented here in an easy to understand format.  Waterhouse advocates a commonsense approach to losing your pregnancy weight...in effect, don't try too hard the first few weeks...simply pamper yourself (as much as you can with a newborn), keep moving (not necessarily structured excercising), and eat sensibly. After the first few months, it's aerobic excercise and keeping a food journal that will assist in eradicating those stubborn pounds. This is the anti-diet approach to regaining your body, both physically and mentally.  It's also a treasure of a book that will help you feel so much better about yourself when you fail to lose the 50 lbs. you gained after the first three months!	2002-02-20
US	52866174	R2WW3BC1BQ78JE	0671725327	887480346	Too Deep for Tears	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A novel that will wrench your heart.	If you haven't yet discovered Kathryn Lynn Davis, get to your nearest bookstore and buy every one of her lushly written novels!  This particular book is so full of romance and heartbreak that you will not be able to put it down until you know what will happen next.<br />The story is about 3 women, Ailsa Rose, who grew up in the Scottish highlands, Wan Li-An, who lives in Imperial China, and Genevra Townsend, who lives in the English colony in India.  The thread that binds these women together is their English father, Charles Kittridge.  None of them know their father intimately as he is a diplomat who travels extensively and none of them know of each other.  While the stories of Li-An and Genevra are exciting and troublesome, it's Ailsa's story that will capture your attention and keep you reading.  She who has lived her entire youth in the glens of Scotland loves to the point of being soulmates her childhood friend, Ian.  The wanderlust in her blood, courtesy of the father she has never known, propels her to spurn her love for Ian and marry an Englishman so that she can see the world beyond the glen.  Davis captures their true love and searing heartbreak in words so eloquently that you will feel their pain as your own.  Ailsa leaves the Glen Affric with her husband and doesn't return for 20 years when her very ill father summons her back along with Li-An and Genevra.<br />I read this book years ago and recently discovered that two sequels have been written for it.  I decided to read the entire trilogy at once and haven't been sorry!  The follow-ups are: All We Hold Dear and Somewhere Lies the Moon.	2002-01-24
US	52866174	R38FB69OTJAT97	068484673X	518170907	The OFFICIAL BOOK OF FIGURE SKATING	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A great reference for the casual spectator.	I feel that this book contains all the basic information that anyone with a casual interest in figure skating needs.  There are sections on its history, major competitors within the sport, how to do (or identify in my case) various jumps, spins, and artistic moves, and how skaters are judged in competition.  It has helped greatly as I watch different amateur competitions leading up to the Olympics...at least I can now tell exactly what the skater is doing and why she/he is scored a particular way myself, where before, I mainly relied on the commentator doing coverage to fill me in.	2002-01-24
US	52866174	R1D5UUIYLZQWBO	0061097101	632958433	The Saving Graces: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The unbreakable bonds of friendship.	I might never have picked this book up had it not been a book club selection...am I ever glad I had the chance to read it!  After you have read the intertwining stories of Emma, Rudy, Lee, and Isabel, you will never again take your closest friends for granted.  Each of these women has a tremendous obstacle to overcome in her life and it is only with the unwavering support of the &quot;Saving Graces&quot; (the name bestowed on their group which meets monthly for dinner and talk) that they are able to come to terms with themselves.  From the very beginning (bad first impressions and all) through all the turmoil, tears, and laughter, you will be caught up in the love and admiration these women feel for each other. In the end, you will want to call up your best friend and tell her how important she is to you, I guarantee it.	2001-08-02
US	52866174	R2H1GABAWQBT5F	0970822618	178574454	My Potty Reward Stickers for Girls:  126 Stickers and Chart to Motivate Toilet Training	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Great motivation for your toddler to use the potty!	Although my 2 1/2 year old daughter has never actually used the potty for anything other than a reading chair, she is very aware of what it is for.  I have been at wit's end trying to find reasons for her to try to use her stool (other than the obvious) and didn't want to bend to the whole bribery thing for fear it would get out-of-control.  Enter the sticker rewards book which is actually a booklet with 14 columns of 9 spaces to put a sticker every time your child has a potty accomplishment.  Since my daughter isn't really interested in ditching diapers yet, I haven't pressured her, but at least now she is telling me when she has dirtied herself and is willing to try to use it for it's intended purpose.  She is thrilled to put a sticker on the page everytime she sits on her potty, and I have told her that she will win a prize for every row she completes after having actually gone to the bathroom.  I think she's starting to get the idea!	2001-07-24
US	52866174	R2T0YA5YAPVBUB	0969941099	596174382	500 More Heartwarming Expressions for Crafting, Painting, Stitching and Scrapbooking (Heartwarming Expressions) Book 2	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A crafter's dream book.	It's always nice to be able to add a little personality to your crafts and this book will help you to do that.  It's easy to adapt to your skill-level: you can trace, enlarge/copy, or freehand draw any of the designs presented to use on just about any type of craft that you can think of. Of course, the primary thought would be for scrapbooking, but inside the front cover, the author lists 99 places that you could potentially use these sayings and clipart.  In fact, included are a few projects for flower pots and a cross-stitching guide for five alphabets.  If you're motivated enough, you can enlarge some of the art and use them for paper-piecing in your scrapbooks.  Some topics:  babies, country, school, Christmas, pets, and fishing/golf...and there are many more!	2001-07-23
US	52866174	RH21VBSJ0S0N3	0968664814	523057335	500 Great Heartwarming Expressions For Scrapbooking & Cards	Books	5	18	18	N	N	One stop shopping for art,  titles, and sayings.	With this versatile book crammed full of clip-art and sayings you will be able to create as far as your imagination takes  you! You can use it in so many different ways:  tracing, enlarging/copying, paper piecing, and even using it as a guide to freehand draw your own art.  And it's not limited to scrapbookers, either.  Included are ideas for tags, cards, and envelopes; you can use them on just about any type of crafting project you can think of.  In this edition, there are also several full color pages of examples of the clip-art in use.  You will never be at a loss for words when you have your HEARTWARMING EXPRESSIONS book(s) handy!	2001-07-23
US	52866174	R3NKMOQWIRO1OQ	0805053549	786401696	The Vital Touch: How Intimate Contact With Your Baby Leads To Happier, Healthier Development	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Keep your child close and comforted.	I read this book while pregnant with my first child three years ago.  It's eye-opening to contrast the United States with other cultures that promote almost constant contact with their babies.  The author shows how our society's emphasis on placing our babies in &quot;containers&quot; (strollers, pumpkin seats, swings, etc.) instead of holding them more often, leads to sensory deprived, more isolated children.  There is information on the benefits of the close contact of breastfeeding, co-sleeping, and helping your children become securely attached (think Dr. Sears.)  This book is a wonderful comparison between the laid-back childrearing practices of most of the rest of the world and prudish America.  You won't want to put your baby down after reading about the wonderful benefits of the vital touch.	2001-07-22
US	52866174	R2N0ZZRGFM4T4I	0060950536	787514702	Taking Charge of Your Fertility: The Definitive Guide to Natural Birth Control and Pregnancy Achievement	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The only fertility book you need!	If you are looking to use natural family planning to either achieve or avoid pregnancy, then you need to have this book!  As far as I'm concerned, there is no other fertility book out there that gives you as much easy-to-understand information as this one.  You will learn to chart your basal body temperature, know when your cervical mucous is of fertile quality, and use the position of your cervix in order to discover your point of ovulation.  It took us three months to conceive once we started using this method, but we had been trying for months before that with no results.  If I hadn't started charting, I might never have found out that I ovulate on day 17 rather than the typically assumed 14 days.  As for now, after trying to conceive for 6 months, I have found that I have a short luteal (post-ovulatory) phase which may require some medical intervention...again through the charting.<br />In addition to full color pictures that will illustrate fertility, you will also find dozens of charts to use to compare with your own in order to see if you are charting correctly or if you might have a problem.<br />I can't say enough good things about this book.  It's wonderful to be able to &quot;read&quot; your body...you will understand your own rhythms in a whole new way after reading and implementing these methods.  TAKING CHARGE OF YOUR FERTILITY will help you to take charge of a part of your life that may sometimes seem out of your control.	2001-07-20
US	52866174	R20UO73EZMSLSZ	0440508975	546464318	Bibliotherapy: The Girl's Guide to Books for Every Phase of Our Lives	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A reference book on books (that you'll really want to read).	As an above-avid reader, I was excited to find a book that is divided into sections with headings like, &quot;Bad Girl Books,&quot; &quot;Hearing-Your-Inner-Voice Books,&quot; &quot;Bad-Hair-Babe Books,&quot; and &quot;Existential Crisis Books.&quot;  How refreshing to be able to locate a great book to read based on how I'm feeling or how it might relate to my life rather than just the blurb on the dust-jacket!<br />Many of these books I have read or are on my reading list.  Quite a few, I have never even heard of, and they are now also on my required reading list.  Along with each title recommended (or not, as may be the case in &quot;Books To Be Thrown With Great Force&quot;) the authors give an overview and then expand on it by briefly describing what the book means to them.<br />This is an honest, informative look at books, both fiction and nonfiction, that will guide and comfort you through every stage in your life.	2001-07-19
US	52866174	R2R0ALMF6VCMHP	0806939427	599908455	The Art of Paper Collage	Books	5	17	19	N	N	An expressive art-form showcase.	Collaging is a soothing form of self-expression.  It doesn't have to be a perfect work of art, because as with any craft or art you create, it's meaning is personal.  If you are interested in finding out about collage, this book is a good place to start.  Though the instructions are vague in places, the general intent is clear enough to allow anyone to express themselves through this art-form.<br />Susan Pickering Rothamel's personal style leans toward the biblical, but that doesn't mean it's something that you must incorporate in to your work.  Her collages are beautiful to look at and hold meaning for her!  As a bonus, there is a gallery of other collage artists at the end of the book so that you can see for yourself the difference in styles.<br />The photographs are great and the supplies are things that you can pick up in any art supply store, even Michael's or Hobby Lobby.  Don't pass up this book as a novice guide to collaging.  The art presented here will inspire and delight you.	2001-07-19
US	52866174	R31DSBTY4ADNFF	0062051857	221178059	Bark, George	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A funny story your kids will love!	So there's a misuse of words in the story...big deal.  I don't feel that my daughter is going to use poor English just because one (very cute) book does.  It's actually a good opportunity to teach her the correct way to use the words! The illustrations are adorable and I just love the expressions on George's mom's face when he can't spit out a proper \\"Arf.\\"  When she takes him to the vet to find out the problem, my daughter cracks up every time he pulls a different animal out of George's tummy.  There's even a twist at the end that I didn't expect.  If you like to read fun books to your kids and don't take them all too seriously, then you should love this book!	2001-07-18
US	52866174	RKBNB2RW7QDYY	1892127113	674676321	Creative Photo Cropping for Scrapbooks (Memory Makers)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Learn to really use your photos.	If you are tired of creating uninspired layouts or are afraid to crop your photos, then this is the book you've been looking for.  Filled with many techniques for creating &quot;photo art,&quot;  CROPPING FOR SCRAPBOOKS will take your layouts to a whole other level.<br />You will learn to silhouette correctly, mosaic, grid, and layer your pictures among other things.  Like many others, I've always been afraid to get to get artsy with my cropping, but by following the instructions in this book (accompanied by pictures and diagrams)I've been very satisfied with the look I've achieved.<br />To add an element of interest to your scrapbook pages, I would recommend using the techniques in CROPPING FOR SCRAPBOOKS.	2001-07-15
US	52866174	R1ZMUES6JZW7TV	1580173063	577989759	Keeping a Nature Journal: Discover a Whole New Way of Seeing the World Around You	Books	5	41	41	N	N	This book will inspire you!	What a beautiful guidebook...it's lavishly illustrated with the authors' own nature sketches and comments so that you can really get a feel for what a nature journal is all about.  Not only will you be keeping a record of the world around you, but you will be learning to see that world with new eyes.  It's so easy to glide over the tiny details that make life truly remarkable...by taking the authors' tips and lessons to heart, you will find yourself paying deeper attention to the little things.<br />You definitely don't have to be an artist (I'm not, by far) to be able to keep a journal of this type.  In fact, there are several basic drawing exercises included that will help you develop some skill, even if you think it's hopeless.  The important thing is to stop and smell the roses...and then draw them.	2001-07-10
US	52866174	R27ZVIQF6SXIF3	0848718402	874852023	Joy of Scrapbooking (Leisure Arts #108711)	Books	5	35	36	N	N	A sound guide to basic scrapping.	If you are in the market for a beginner's guide to scrapbooking, then in my opinion, you have come to the zenith of the craft in finding this book!  Although I never have the patience or time to create as involved and perfect looking layouts as I see in the Creating Keepsakes magazines and books, I always look to them for the newest techniques and supplies.  I've become quite adept at &quot;scraplifting&quot; and modifying layouts by my favorite artists (including Becky Higgins and Heidi Swapp.)  This particular book will take you through the basics...supplies, journaling, layout, etc...all with Lisa Bearnson's friendly instruction. It basically takes your hand and walks you through the overwhelming task of beginning scrapbooking so that you can start out with a strong foundation of USEFUL knowledge.  It may also help to prevent you from buying a lot of things that you won't necessarily use right off the bat...and may also prevent you from making a few of the mistakes that I now cringe at when I look at my early pages.  For clear, simple instruction on scrapbooking basics, this book can't be beat!	2001-07-03
US	52866174	R5SL8T26XQX3W	0865734356	856540396	Toddler Play (Gymboree)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	A book full of fun and learning.	Filled to the brim with lively, full-color photographs, this book will teach you not only how to play, but why children need to play.  The activities presented are for the 12-month to 30-month age bracket and have games for developing language, motor, and sensory skills.  There are art, sports, and imagination activities that will be fun for both you and your child to get involved in.  An added bonus is that my 30-month old daughter loves to look at the pictures of kids that are on almost every page and she will &quot;read&quot; along with me as I sing some of the fingerplay songs that are shown.  You can't go wrong with this jam-packed book for games that will occupy and educate your child!	2001-07-02
US	52866174	R300BL2BNF5NI	1564965856	707776812	Making Memory Books by Hand: Memories to Keep and Share	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Gorgeous photos, inspirational ideas.	I have never bound a book by hand and I really don't have any desire to do so.  In buying this guide, you need not have any intent to create an entire book from scratch because the pictures are so beautiful that you will be more focused on creating pages to put into your existing journal or scrapbook.<br />I agree that the projects here are more for the advanced bookbinder, but I have found it fairly easy to adapt the ideas to my own skill level and have had satisfactory results.  I am continually amazed by the level of creativity in both this book and &quot;Creating Journals By Hand.&quot;  They both have had more influence on what goes into my pages than on the entire journal...and to me, it's the memories that really count, not what they're packaged in.	2001-07-02
US	52866174	R1XRATRDAWCXW9	0060199261	177141418	The Bronze Horseman: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A beautifully written love story.	At the outset, I was unable to put this huge book down.  You will be swept into the heartbreaking love between Tatiana and Alexander almost as though you were experiencing it yourself!  When they meet and feel an instant attraction for each other on a Leningrad street, you can't help but feel that it is a great match in the making.  However, when Tatiana finds out that Alexander is her sister's beau, she insists that they keep their strong feelings for each other secret in order to protect Dasha's feelings.  Not only this, but Alexander's friend Dimitri takes a liking to Tania and since he knows a secret that would destroy Alexander had anyone found out, he cannot know of their feelings for one another. For a great part of the book, they must live this way, until the siege of Leningrad when all of Tania's family perishes of starvation.  It is this story that had the power to keep me up all night reading, wondering what was to become of the massive love that they felt for each other.<br />Unfortunately, just like any other story, once the tension is gone, the it just isn't as spellbinding.  When Tania and Alexander find each other and are finally able to consummate (and consummate and consummate) their love for each other...let me break in here and say that I nearly had to skip over about 100 pages of &quot;moaning&quot; and &quot;licking&quot;...their love almost falls flat.<br />Toward the end of the book, it becomes more engrossing with their fight for their lives and plans to leave the Soviet Union. Alexander's secret both helps and hinders Tania's ambitions to make a better life for herself outside of communist Russia.<br />&quot;The Bronze Horseman&quot; is beautifully written with lush wording and a genuine sense of longing between the two protagonists.  The realistic scenes of Leningrad winters, starvation and death will be sure to impart a feeling of desperation and a need to survive as you're reading.  This is a compulsively readable novel, except for the small middle part, and I was disappointed when I reached the end.mall middle part, and I was disappointed when I reached the end.	2001-07-02
US	52866174	R2YLI2XCJT327	0345437071	411211376	BabyTalk: Strengthen Your Child's Ability to Listen, Understand, and Communicate	Books	5	15	16	N	N	An easy method to help your child communicate.	Along with &quot;Baby Signs,&quot; this book should be on the shelf of any person who wants to help boost their child's communication skills.  The author advocates a daily 1/2 hour playtime during which you eliminate all distractions so that you can have one on one time with your baby/toddler/preschooler to play with her toys and focus on talking with her.  One of the main points presented is that you should never outright correct a child's speech, ask them to repeat words, or ask them questions demanding an answer as this can make them feel belittled and actually hinder their speech development.  Instead you should simply repeat the word back to them in its correct form and use short, direct sentences so that they can follow the words.<br />&quot;Baby Talk&quot; is full of great advice for helping your child to listen and understand.  There are suggestions for toys and books for each age group (the program is for children birth to age four) and it also lists signs to look for in the case that she might need a speech therapist.	2001-06-24
US	52866174	R4MZH9A87QOLM	0809234300	113235689	Baby Signs	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Boost  your child's communication skills.	I found this to be a fascinating and educational book for both me and my daughter.  She is now two 1/2 and has been speaking in full sentences since she was 22 months old, in part I think, because I had encouraged her to sign to me from the age of 10 months.  It was wonderful for me to be able to understand what she was trying to tell me before she could speak and it really cut down on her frustration level, thus eliminating a few tantrums!<br />At first I taught her some of the signs that are presented in this book, but after awhile, she started making up her own...some of our most frequently used were &quot;drink,&quot; &quot;hungry,&quot; &quot;tubbies,&quot; and &quot;book.&quot;  The author states in the book that having these early communication skills can help infants learn to use words and understand them at an earlier age and with this I must agree.  Because my daughter is very tall and is precociously verbal, most people don't believe me when I tell them that she's not yet three!<br />It takes some time at first to get your child to understand what these symbols are used for, but with patience and work, you'll be communicating with your baby in a whole new way.	2001-06-24
US	52866174	R7NWAN27CC4UE	0761530878	45215099	The Sims: Livin' Large: Prima's Official Strategy Guide	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Hints and tips to get you started on your Sim journey.	The first time I played The Sims was using Bob and Betty Newbie as a practice run before I committed to making my own families.  I was so busy running them ragged trying to raise the hunger, fun, and bladder motives that their comfort and energy was less than zero!  I just couldn't organize myself enough to keep them satisfied while I tried to figure out what everything was supposed to do.<br />Enter this strategy guide which offers tips from the creators and testers of The Sims.  It assumes that you have read the game manual that came with the software and expands on it by giving in depth explanations of each motive and personality trait in order to better understand your Sims autonomy, or lack thereof. It also covers building homes, each object and it's value and interaction, and a basic tutorial on how to create your own skins and objects.<br />It is also full of tables and graphs, a few of which are informative and few of which are kind of difficult to understand. The main reason to buy this book would be for the notes and tips that are scattered about that give you an inside peek at the motivations of your Sims and a few ways to manipulate the game.<br />I'd recommend this book as a way to become &quot;friends&quot; with your Sims so that you can give them better social interactions, better homes, and happier personalities.	2001-06-15
US	52866174	R2DF9W5L5JV5ZV	0312974620	504926125	Beyond Jennifer & Jason, Madison & Montana: What to Name Your Baby Now	Books	5	48	49	N	N	Best manual for creative and tried-&amp;-true names.	If you are tired of baby naming books that don't go beyond the origin and meaning of hundreds of names, then you will love this book!  In it, the authors include trends and classifications of names that will help you to avoid the most overused choices.  Of particular interest to me were the &quot;So Far In They're Out,&quot; and &quot;So Far Out They're In&quot; sections which pinpoint some of the most popular names being used today.<br />This book will also help you choose a name that will suit your child, whether from the &quot;Fashionable Classics,&quot; &quot;Creative Power Names,&quot; Feminine or Manly,&quot; or any of the foreign name sections.  I really found this book to be useful because it helps you to see what other people find attractive or unattractive in a name so that you can settle on one that will make you (and hopefully your child) happy.<br />If you prefer really different, or maybe somewhat bizarre, names then this book won't disappoint in that area, either.  Suggestions for naming after objects, places, and soap opera characters abound...and you also get the (true, I've noticed) observation that more and more girls are receiving very &quot;boy&quot; names, while the same boy names are being used over and over for...boys!<br />This is a must-have book for anyone laboring (pun intended) over a name for their baby.  The options, descriptions, and creativity shown here will really help make the job a little easier.	2001-06-15
US	52866174	RK4HYHH4E24NG	1579543340	202511687	Parents Magazine's The Best Advice I Ever Got: 1,023 Fast Fixes, Simple Solutions, and Wise Ideas for Raising Kids	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A treasure trove of practical advice on child-rearing.	One of my favorite parts of Parents magazine is the &quot;It Worked For Me&quot; section.  Think of this book as a 468 page article filled with tips and advice from parents all over America!  However, not only do you get the parents' personal tips, but you also get professional advice for such things as building self-esteem, teaching etiquette, vaccination schedules, and so many other relevant and sometimes urgent topics.<br />I think of this book as being the equivalent of having several hundred friends that you can pick up the phone to call for advice when your child is in the throes of a tantrum, isn't interested in the potty AT ALL, or won't eat/latch on/give up that binky.  There are also sections on planning a vacation with kids, doing crafts, and finding a reliable caregiver, so it's not all kid-behavior oriented...but it is all common-sense, practical advice that when you are on your last nerve, may just add a few axons to the bundle!	2001-06-14
US	52866174	R3ATO990LACTGD	1571310169	827061641	The Empress of One	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Another beautifully written book by Faith Sullivan.	I don't agree that this novel is too long at all!  From the very beginning to the last page, I was caught up in the story of Sally Wheeler and how her life was affected by her severely depressed mother, though during the time of WWII and post-war America, she was considered certifiably crazy.<br />This isn't a sequel to &quot;The Cape Ann,&quot; per se, as much as a parallel story that shows some of the events from that book from another point of view and then focuses on Sally's life.  As in &quot;The Cape Ann,&quot; there are other storylines that are nearly as compelling as the main one, including Katherine Albers' relationship with her father, Mr. Davis and the Motley's acting troupe, and Lark's return at the end.<br />When Stella's depression really starts to make a turn for the worse and she is institutionalized, Sally is branded as the daughter of the crazy woman and it is interesting to see how this affects her in her relationships (especially with her boyfriend Cole and her father) and her view of herself.  Her obvious longing for the mother she never really had and the love/hate tug-of-war that goes on inside her are believable and poignant.<br />If you didn't want &quot;The Cape Ann&quot; to end and are wondering what became of Sally, Lark, and Beverly, then you will want to read this novel to tie up some loose ends.  I only hope that Faith Sullivan will continue the trend with Beverly's story, and maybe even Katherine's.	2001-06-13
US	52866174	R3U8ZPMGLEQOZP	1564966763	748514060	Making Journals by Hand: 20 Creative Projects for Keeping Your Thoughts	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A gorgeous celebration of the visual journal.	The title of this book is slightly misleading...I think it's more about creating the visual aspect of a journal's pages than binding a journal by hand.  That's not to say that there aren't any instructions at all for creating your own from scratch, just that the projects presented are on the simple side and not what someone looking for a bookbinding manual would necessarily be looking for.<br />Now, if you are looking for a book that will inspire you to keep a true visual journal, then you can do no better than to purchase this book!  The photographs are beautiful and the amount of creativity contained in these pages is awesome.<br />There are many instructions included for designing the pages of your journal that would put this type of record-keeping in the league of scrapbooking.  If you want to make a memorable legacy for yourself and generations to come, then you will want to put the ideas in &quot;Making Journals By Hand&quot; to use.	2001-06-13
US	52866174	R13N7J3XVOFJF3	0806964650	162441265	Better Scrapbooking	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Nice presentation of old techniques.	For the novice scrapbooker, this book will be a great help.  For myself, I give it only 3 stars because it mostly contains ideas for your pages that have been covered before, such as embossing, stamping, stitching on paper, stickers, etc.  I did find the chapters on tole painting on pages and collage to be insightful, but not worth the price of the entire book.  One nice thing about the layout is that the instructions are very clear and easy to follow, so if you are new to scrapbooking and looking for ways to jazz up your pages, this book might be the ticket!	2001-06-10
US	52866174	R2KELIO5A6WRT1	0316779059	647537444	The Baby Book: Everything You Need to Know About Your Baby from Birth to Age Two	Books	5	12	16	N	N	Baby advice you will use!	Dr. Sears advocates the attachment method of parenting which is based on the fact that you can't spoil a child by attending to her every need as an infant.  I have found that in using Dr. Sears' advice with my daughter that she has grown to be a happy, well-adjusted, and reasonable (for a 2-year old) toddler.<br />In addition to sections on the family bed, wonderful sling-use instructions, and other ways to keep your baby close and calm, there is advice on what to do if your child is not feeling well (obviously not to be used in place of a doctor's check), and information about keeping her healthy.<br />I have flipped through this book looking for information on many things as my daughter gets older and even though she's now over two, I still use it for gaining sound, basic knowledge of raising a happy, healthy child.	2001-06-04
US	52866174	R2TTXKWUDH5DPZ	0963022288	859783480	Scrapbook Storytelling: Save Family Stories and Memories With Photos, Journaling and Your Own Creativity	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A good companion for those who get stuck while journaling.	I often feel like I have a lot to say about my scrapbook pages, but don't know where to start in recording it.  The main thing that this book has done is help me to organize my thoughts so that I can more clearly and accurately tell the story.<br />Joanna Campbell Slan gives many tips for recalling memories, finding out information from family members, and using memorabilia in your pages.  She not only focuses on using words to tell a story, but on using your pictures, too.<br />While you may not be able to construct a total family or personal narrative by using the suggestions here (that's not what this particular book is about anyway) you will definitely be able create journaling in your pages that will tell the story behind the pictures and carry your legacy to the future!	2001-06-04
US	52866174	RNLXFB0XR6H2V	0140119795	762966469	The Cape Ann (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	5	22	23	N	N	I couldn't put this book down!	Faith Sullivan has the ability to write about her characters in such a way that everything they feel is transferred to you, the reader.  I'm not one to show a lot of emotion while reading a book, but this one had me both laughing and on the brink of tears.<br />The story is told from eyes of 6-year old Lark, who lives in a train depot with her strong mother and semi-abusive, gambling addict father, during the depression.  The book has several storylines, with the main one being between Lark and her mother who long for a house of their own, the Cape Ann model in particular.  Her father's continual gambling debts threaten to sabotage their plans until her mother starts a typing service from their home in the depot.<br />Lark has to deal with learning catechism for her first confession and communion, her bed-ridden, pregnant Aunt Betty,  befriending a WWI hero who has lost his sanity because of the war, and her two best friends, Beverly, who lives in poverty, and Sally, whose mother suffers from depression.<br />This novel is a humorous, poignant look at a child's world where everything is changing quickly beyond her control and causing her to call on reserves of strength that only growing up can bring.	2001-06-04
US	52866174	R3HDKWFXFHKUNV	0967383048	308811350	Laughter Wasn't Rationed : A Personal Journey Through Germany's World Wars and Postwar Years	Books	5	21	25	N	N	A true lesson in history.	Anyone who is truly interested in history needs to look beyond the textbooks and lessons of world history classes to the personal accounts of wartime life.  It is here that we learn what the common people really thought and felt as they lived through the conflicts that are so concisely presented in school books.<br />I've done a lot of casual reading about WWII and Dorothea von Schwanenflugel Lawson's book has helped me more than any other to understand the complex politics and upheavals behind it.  The testimony of someone who lived through it helped me to understand how, in the turbulent, economically challenged times after WWI, the Germans could be desperate enough to allow someone as strong (and evil) as Hitler, with his compelling nature and grandiose, if empty, promises for a brighter future, to come into power.  We have heard the horrible stories and accounts of what it was like to be a victim of the Nazi regime, and it's only fair that we get to hear about the flip side:  how the average German citizen lived and coped under the debilitating totalitarian government, losing all of their basic civil rights.<br />In describing events in Germany just prior to WWII, she effectively illustrates how Hitler completely destroyed any semblance of individuality in order to create a bland mass of people so tightly corralled that they had no choice but to buckle under his dictatorship and violent Third Reich.<br />During the war she led a priviledged life, escaping membership in the BDM (women's Nazi organization) and going to school, all the while having her basic needs and wants met by both her prosperous father and husband.  Though times were very difficult and fearful while Hitler was in power, the real problems start after the war.  With liberation came severe food shortages, rape by Soviet soldiers, and discrimination by American forces because of the belief that all Germans were Nazis, when in reality, most had been forced to become members.  Her stories about working 16 hour days in the American mess hall for no pay - just extra food for her starving family, weekly 32 mile journeys through dangerous Soviet territory to get produce from local farms, and crowded, unsanitary living conditions in bombed out houses, will show you the complete terror and desperation of the Germans after WWII.<br />The end of the book describes the Cold War struggle between eastern Soviet controlled and western Allied controlled Germany and the erection of the Berlin Wall.<br />Though the book deals with one of the darkest periods of world history, a sense of hope is conveyed through the author's sense of humor.  Her story is sprinkled with humorous anecdotes and popular jokes about Hitler and the Nazi regime that, if spoken aloud during the years of the Third Reich, would have been grounds for violent reprisals.<br />I highly recommend this book for a deeper understanding of the events surrounding WWI, WWII, and the Cold War.  It is a testimony to the strength, willpower, and courage of people who are powerless against their captors, but are still willing to fight for a better life for themselves.  No American can take their freedom for granted after reading Dorothea von Schwanenflugel Lawson's memoirs.ing 16 hour days in the American mess hall for no pay - just extra food for her starving family, weekly 32 mile journeys through dangerous Soviet territory to get produce from local farms, and crowded, unsanitary living conditions in bombed out houses, will show you the complete terror and desperation of the Germans after WWII.<br />The end of the book describes the Cold War struggle between eastern Soviet controlled and western Allied controlled Germany and the erection of the Berlin Wall.<br />Though the book deals with one of the darkest periods of world history, a sense of hope is conveyed through the author's sense of humor.  Her story is sprinkled with humorous anecdotes and popular jokes about Hitler and the Nazi regime that, if spoken aloud during the years of the Third Reich, would have been grounds for violent reprisals.<br />I highly recommend this book for a deeper understanding of the events surrounding WWI, WWII, and the Cold War.  It is a testimony to the strength, willpower, and courage of people who are powerless against their captors, but are still willing to fight for a better life for themselves.  No American can take their freedom for granted after reading Dorothea von Schwanenflugel Lawson's memoirs.	2001-05-29
US	52866174	R3CXN161Z0MCI1	0553118773	416698263	Holocaust	Books	5	25	25	N	N	A painful and emotional saga	This novel tells the fictional story of two Germans, one on each side of the holocaust.  Rudi Weiss is a young Jewish boy whose family refuses to acknowledge the growing threat of Hitler and the Nazis.  They realize too late that they should have left Germany and become embroiled in the persecution and elimination of the Jews.  Erik Dorf is a new lawyer whose wife prods him to become an SS officer under the direction of Heydrich.  He rises quickly through the ranks of the SS and it is disturbing to see how his nonchalance about the Jews becomes full-fledged hatred throughout the course of the story.  The book alternates the voices of Weiss and Dorf, effectively showing both sides of the conflict in a manner that will both educate you about why Hitler chose the Jews as a scapegoat and shock you with its sometimes graphic depiction of abuse and humiliation.  This book needs to be read so that the horrifying memory of the Holocaust will never be forgotten or repeated.	2001-03-24
US	52866174	R2Q4NK1PD08NVK	0312219539	635998258	Divided Lives: The Untold Stories of Jewish-Christian Women in Nazi Germany	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Brings Jewish persecution to life.	Many of the mischling women interviewed in this book state that the young people of today, especially Americans don't have any feeling whatsoever for what happened in WWII.  Sadly, they are correct in that we learn about the war, but we don't learn about real life during the war.  Facts and technical outlines of battles can only give one the surface of the struggle.  To dig deeper, you need to read first person accounts such as the ones given in this book...stories of persecution and oppression that will make the war seem all too real.  The paper thin line of distinction between Germans and Jews comes to life here with the children of Jewish/Christian parents who are ranked according to the amount of Jewish blood they carry...first degree half-Jew or second degree quarter-Jew.  Most are saved from the concentration camps by their affiliation with their Aryan (German) family, but all suffer some amount of anti-semitism and persecution under the Third Reich.  This is a revealing portrait of the fate of the mischlinge, a people who are often forgotten in the gruesome and humiliating saga of the holocaust.	2001-03-07
US	52866174	R2KY54D8H63JG1	0449211479	241253921	The Source	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A satisfying and rewarding read.	In &quot;The Source&quot;, James Michener takes us into the heart of an archeological dig for the town of Makor in Israel.  As the workers dig deeper into the site, each layer of earth reveals an artifact which then becomes the basis of a vignette that tells the tale of man's construction of religion.  From the stories of a few flints and a small figurine of the Canaanite fertility goddess, Astarte to a bullet used in WWII, we are swept into the histories of Paganism, Judaism, Christianity, and Islam.  Man has always worshipped a higher power and in some cases been persecuted for it...this novel, grand in its scope, will take you through the Crusades, Inquisition, and Arab/Israeli conflict (though conspicuously ignoring the holocaust) and help you to understand in fictional terms how the major world religions came to be.	2001-02-19
US	52866174	R2D4OSDJTE90GR	0312144369	626357014	Totally Awesome 80s: A Lexicon of the Music, Videos, Movies, TV Shows, Stars, and Trends of that Decadent Decade	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A totally tubular book, fer sure!	As a child of the 80's, I was stoked to find this book about the trends, music, movies, and language of the times.  Flashback-o-rama!  Having spent my entire teen years in this decade, I probably said, wore, watched, and listened to every reference made here.  I fondly remember banana clips (I wish I could still wear them without looking dated!) and I think I still have my half-million pairs of leg warmers and ripped up sweatshirts stashed in a box somewhere! The book is formatted in lists, such as &quot;Ten Labels An 80's Closet Wouldn't Be Caught Dead Without,&quot; &quot;Eighty Quintessentially 80's Songs,&quot; and &quot;Creature Feature: Twenty Groovy Horror Movies of the 80's.&quot;  Since as someone already said below, lists are made at the whim of the author, I'm sure not everyone will agree with the ranking of the topics.  I have to say though, that Matthew Rettenmund knows his material well, and his Ultimate Picks for songs and movies are pretty much right on.  I love to reminisce about my high school years...Poltergeist and Nightmare On Elm Street still freak me out, I love Prince and New Wave synth pop, and I still have a mad crush on Ilan Mitchell-Smith (the dark haired kid) from Weird Science.  Who but at true 80's survivor would admit to that?	2001-02-14
US	52866174	R1XP44411WOPMA	067944551X	522305574	Jazz: A History of America's Music	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Total and complete jazz retrospective.	It's a shame that jazz isn't as popular a music form as it was from it's beginning to the late 50's.  There's something about the syncopation, improvisation, and vocal styling combination that I think is unsurpassed in today's techno, bubblegum pop inundated culture.  This book is for both the true jazz aficionado and the jazz amateur.  From its New Orleans start to today's foremost jazz artists, Wynton Marsalis and Cassandra Wilson, it's all there.  As mentioned in a couple of reviews, the book does give a short shrift to contemporary jazz...I feel that the main reason for that is that jazz, unfortunately, doesn't enjoy near the popularity it did in its hey-day.  What you will come away with, however, is a feel for the social, historical, and ethnic backgrounds that shaped jazz as an American art form.  These lavish pictures, quotes, and biographies of the greats...Louis Armstrong, Billie Holiday, Count Basie...you know who they are! will captivate you and make you feel as if you have always been a part of this musical phenomenon.	2001-01-19
US	52866174	R32JIQSSN72KQW	1570612609	938319115	The Greatest of Marlys	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Childhood so real.	No one can catch the poignant, perfect, sometimes heartbreaking, and usually funny in retrospect side of childhood like Lynda Barry.  We all were Arna, Freddie, Arnold, Maybonne, and Marlys during some point in our youth as much as we might like to deny it!  As I read these comics, the stories bring back the exact feelings I had when it was me doing the hand-turkey drawings, making shoe-box dioramas, and dancing in front of the mirror.  If you want to relive the trauma, deliriousness, and great, great fun of being a child, Marlys and friends will bring it all back to you!	2001-01-14
US	52866174	RWITSQ6165A01	0965123804	563023212	Sequencing	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Words of support for stay-at-home-mothers.	Sequencing, a term coined by the author, is the process ofmaking adjustments in your life and career so that you are able tostay home with your children during their formative years.  There areso many ways to do this, from starting a home business to quittingwork altogether and reentering the workforce years later.  This is theaffirmation that women who opt to stay at home with their childrenhave been waiting for.  This book and philosophy have become the basisof a national organization called &quot;Mothers &amp; More&quot;(formerly known as F.E.M.A.L.E.)  that works as a support group forSAHMs and as an advocate for their rights as members of theworkforce...I can't say enough about this organization!  It hasbrought an end to the isolation and routine of being a full-time mom.	2001-01-09
US	52866174	R3AOELJZP49HN5	0590109707	106544175	Miss Moo Goes to the Zoo	Books	5	12	12	N	N	An entertaining book!	My daughter's security object is a stuffed cow named Moo, so when I saw this book, I had to buy it.  What fun!  This is a great story to read aloud as you can add many voice effects to it.  Miss Moo is bored of being on the farm and sets off to find a more exciting life.  She discovers the zoo and tries to find a place there where she will fit in.  After the elephants, giraffes, and lions (FUN voices) tell her that she's not special enough to live with them, she is ready to give up until the zebras encourage her to talk to the zookeeper.  He takes her to the petting zoo where she is delighted to find all her old friends (sheep, chickens, horses, and pigs) and lots of children, too.  Gabrielle learned a lot of her animals and animal sounds from this book and also that no matter where you go, you can always find friends if you search hard enough!	2001-01-08
US	52866174	R1VS42N424WB38	0609606727	574254744	Julie and Romeo: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A delightful read.	The families of the Cappiacani's and the Roth's have been feuding in a Montague/Capulet sort of way for years and no one really knows how it all began.  When Romeo Cappiacani and Julie Roseman Roth, both owners of local floral shops, meet at a small business seminar, the sparks fly between them and so starts a tale of forbidden love that will leave you rolling in the aisles! The two main characters are in their 60's and neither one can fathom why their families are always at each other.  When Julie's daughters find out that she is consorting with the enemy, one is understanding as she has been in that same boat, and the other goes on the attack!  Much the same for Romeo's family...his sons play the part of hulking thugs well, and the Italian matriarch grandmother has her own very personal reasons for pouring salt into the earth under Julie's rose bushes.  Only at the end, during Grandma's birthday party, do we finally learn the real reason why the two families have hated each other for so long.  This is a charming, humorous twist on the Romeo and Juliet story...compulsively readable and a satisfying tale.	2001-01-03
US	52866174	RIGP3SR7ECVVR	0375410767	254577781	The Family Orchard	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Multi-generational tale of fact and legend, intertwined.	As her father writes a factual history of the family tree, Nomi writes the legends surrounding the history.  It is interesting to see the short, unimaginative paragraphs written by her father contrasting to the poetic, quirky, stories that she tells about the generations of her family.  Starting with Esther and Yochanon, who are married only four months when she begins an affair with the baker which only serves to enhance the marriage...leading to their son Eliezer, who after his mother dies while birthing him, is gifted with the stepsister he will fall in love with and marry...leading to light-fingered Avra, who steals not for material acquisition (she often replaces the things she steals with other things that she has stolen) but because it is an intrinsic part of her being...These wonderfully told stories and offbeat personalities illuminate the Schine/Sepher family's lives with a bright light of warmth, humor, passion, and understanding.  My only complaint is that by the time you finally get to know and like a character in the novel, their chapter has ended and you're introduced to a whole new set of people.  I understand that it's necessary to condense in a multi-generation book that spans a century and a half, but there are some people in the book that I would have liked to have gotten to know better!	2001-01-03
US	52866174	R1DG1H2RL1QSC	0060621796	25556258	Living Judaism: The Complete Guide to Jewish Belief, Tradition, and Practice	Books	5	6	6	N	N	One of the best resources on Judaism.	If you are searching for a book on the complete meaning and traditions of basic Judaism, look no further.  This book is written in a straightforward, ever-so-slightly scholarly manner that is appropriate to the subject matter.  Rather than just describing different events in the history and life cycle of the Jewish people, Rabbi Wayne Dosick tells stories that help to illuminate the subtle meanings behind the events.  He includes definitions to all Hebrew words (along with their Hebrew spelling) that he introduces and has each chapter broken down into easy to understand sections representing a single theme.  Chapters include:  Jewish beliefs, The Jewish People, Jewish Literature, Jewish Days and Holidays, Jewish Worship, The Jewish Life Cycle, and the Jewish Land.  This is a compendium of Jewish thought that encompasses everything you absolutely need to know. Another great book that is a wealth of Judaic information is &quot;Essential Judaism&quot; by George Robinson.	2001-01-03
US	52866174	R27E793O65PBVO	0671700073	533048488	Between Two Worlds: Adult Children of Jewish-Gentile Intermarriage	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A life saver for those who feel alone!	Leslie Goodman-Malamuth and Robin Margolis have done a great thing by writing this book and affirming that children of interfaith marriages do have identity conflicts and issues about growing up with a mixed heritage.  It's not a cut-and-dried thing--a lot of Christians regard us as Jewish and Jews want nothing to do with us (but only if we are patrilineally descended...if you have a Jewish mother, you are a Jew).  This book has become one of my best friends by letting me know that I'm not alone in my quest for religious/cultural identity and that I'm not crazy for feeling an innate affinity for Judaism. It contains interviews with interfaiths that affiliate as Christians, Jews, agnostics, or whatever and presents ways for you to help deal with the duplicity in your life. This book is out-of-print, but if you are a child of intermarriage questioning your spirituality or ethnicity, it would be worth it to you to scour local or online used bookstores to find a copy, it's that worthwhile!	2000-12-31
US	52866174	R2ILBXLSC8YMOV	0375503854	515525568	The Half-Jewish Book: A Celebration	Books	4	21	24	N	N	A warm, wonderful book that champions interfaith children.	This book is a wonderful affirmation of those of us who are half-Jewish.  As an adult child of intermarriage (Jewish dad and Catholic mom) who grew up in a secular home, I have struggled with spiritual and ethnic identity issues for awhile and have felt very alone in my mixed heritage.  While the Christian religions are very welcoming toward us, Judaism is not accepting of intermarriage in general and is somehow threatened by our existence.  Unfortunately many interfaith children, myself included, find that Judaism is their intrinsic &quot;faith of residence.&quot;  After all the muddling I have done and have yet to do to work out these issues I am so happy to see a book that validates us with humor and seriousness and pop culture references :)  Another wonderful book on the subject is &quot;Between Two Worlds:  Choices for Grown Children of Jewish-Christian Parents&quot; by Leslie Goodman-Malamuth and Robin Margolis.	2000-12-30
US	52866174	RUDRB3JE99QQN	0812564669	596423105	Household Gods	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Lite historical fiction.	This is not a true work of historical fiction...cross &quot;The Outlander&quot; by Diana Gabaldon with &quot;The First Man in Rome&quot; by Colleen McCullough and you'll have a rough idea of how this book is laid out.  Nicole is weary, self-absorbed lawyer who is recently divorced with two children and longs for a simpler time. A series of circumstances causes her to pray to her statues of Liber and Libera (God/Goddess of wine) that they could take her back to a time when things weren't so complicated.  Voila, she wakes up in a Roman city called Carnuntum around A.D. 170 as a widowed tavernkeeper and finds new meaning for the word stress.  Trying to navigate the Roman baths, streets, filth and disease, religion and business world, Nicole finds that things may not be as bad as she realized back home.  When she finally does return home, she is a medical oddity, having been in a coma for 6 days (in  Carnuntum 1 1/2 years).  Her mindset is changed, she no longer takes things for granted, and her life takes a turn for the better.  If you are interested in Roman times or a fan of time travel books, this one will not disappoint.	2000-12-14
US	52866174	R1X102AI2XUMNI	0028636406	135370859	The Complete Idiot's Guide(R) to Scrapbooking	Books	5	79	82	N	N	A great scrapping resource.	There are many, many magazines and books that feature full-color, product-laden picures of layouts.  This book, on the other hand is a detailed scrapbooking encyclopedia!  If you are a beginner looking for basic instruction in layout, journaling, product selection, and even picture taking, then look no further!If you are a seasoned scrapper, then you will probably already know most of the information presented in this book...but it's for you, too!  It is a treasure trove of organization, scrapping with kids, overcoming scrapper's block, and other uses for scrapbooking supplies ideas.  It even contains a chapter dedicated to the color wheel and how to combine colors with your pictures in ways that please the eye.  This book is for everyone, whether a novice or &quot;pro&quot;, and will provide just about any answer you need to your scrapbooking questions.	2000-12-14
US	52866174	R355CKB9S2DTYO	0060392088	860754900	Rachel Ashwell's Shabby Chic Treasure Hunting and Decorating Guide	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Inspiration for antique/flea market shoppers.	While some of the people who have read this book dislike Rachel Ashwell's chatty tone, I find it personal and very informative.  I think that she has exquisite taste and is a genius at vintage decorating.  This book will help you to ferret out the quality finds at a flea market or antique mall and put them into use by providing tips on what to look for and how to restore them to charming beauty.  There are sections on collections, decorations, and vintage clothing, among others, and the book finishes with a look at some finished homes done in impeccable Shabby Chic style.  The pictures are beautiful, the text is as if a friend were talking to you, and the whole package is entertaining and inspirational.	2000-12-10
US	52866174	R1Y698OY4LV1XW	0836236750	624680208	Mary Engelbreit's Children's Companion: The Mary Engelbreit Look and How to Get It (Mary Engelbreit's Companion)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Children's dream rooms...	THESE are what I dream of children's rooms looking like! This is not really a how-to book, but more of an idea book...to be honest, I don't even think I read it, but spent a couple hours poring over the beautiful pictures to get ideas for my 2-year old daughter's new &quot;big girl&quot; room.  There are sections on nurseries, girls' and boys' rooms, and also a few do-it-yourself decorations for good measure.  If you enjoy a look that is nostalgic, colorful, and slightly cluttery, then you will love this book!	2000-12-10
US	52866174	R1HMSUNP185IW8	0740700294	644780277	PAINT Techniques & Ideas Art and Inspiration	Books	5	21	21	N	N	A wonderful addition to the Mary Engelbreit book collection.	This is a typical Mary Engelbreit book with lavish pictures and a &quot;vintagey&quot;, comfortable look.  Where some of her books are more for ideas than how-to's, this one is not.  While you will most definitely find much inspiration in these pages, it also includes shopping lists and detailed instructions for recreating these looks in your home.  There are many painting techniques described, including striping, sponging, glazing, and a few more!	2000-12-10
US	52866174	R163EZQF44OVL4	0684853523	44310359	On Writing:  A Memoir of the Craft	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A smart, straightforward book	If you are looking for a typical King terrorfest, don't look here!  This is a wonderful book; using his trademark plain, sometimes crude language, King has written a fine novel about what it takes to become a competent, perhaps even good writer.  The book starts out with a brief narrative of his life, including a gem of a story about an overweight babysitter who would sit on his head and fart (Pow!).  You can definitely see, even through this very short, abridged version, where he got his horror jones.  The middle of the book contains lessons on what you REALLY need to know about writing a book that will keep a reader's attention. It concludes with King's near-fatal accident in which he was struck by a van, shattering his leg, among other injuries.  During his long convalescence, King is quick to point out that &quot;writing did not save my life...but it has continued to do what it has always done: it makes my life a brighter and more pleasant place.&quot;  And that is the main point of this book:  if you're not writing because it is something you love to do, then you probably shouldn't be doing it.	2000-10-12
US	52866174	R1QVPN12BFZFMF	0060175532	597329210	Young Wives: A Novel	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Young (First) Wives (Club)	I've heard of plots being reused, but this is ridiculous!  This novel is virtually the 'First Wives Club' disguised as three of the most gullible women I have ever read about.  All of the husbands are snakes and you just wish you could kick Angela, Michelle, and Jada for falling for their 'poor me' acts. When the three women come together, they form an alliance to rival Charlie's Angels.  They do their detective work and come up with hilarious ways to do their exes in. The Super Glue incident is a work of art in itself.  That and the fact that these women finally stand up for themselves is the reason I give this book 3 stars.  One really annoying thing about this book is the acronyms that Jada uses throughout (LUMPS=Lying, Ugly Male Pigs, NUP=Natural Unit Preferences)...I had to keep going back to find out what they meant because she uses so many of them it gets confusing.  Otherwise, this book is OK, just a rehashing of an already successful story.	2000-10-02
US	52866174	R2IBQ22XTS46VI	192918011X	602226010	The Art of Creative Lettering: 50 Amazing New Alphabets You Can Make for Scrapbooks, Cards, Invitations, and Signs	Books	5	10	10	N	N	You can create beautiful scrapbook pages, artist or not!	I could do OK lettering, but after reading and implementing this book, I can do spectacular lettering!  In addition to 50 great alphabets that can be used in every variety of scrapbooking pages, this book also gives  detailed instructions on how to flawlessly create them yourself.  It goes  on to give suggestions on how to place your titles on the page for maximum  impact and includes dozens of new scrapbook page ideas.  If you prefer  heading your pages yourself instead of using a computer, then this is the  only book you need!  It's so easy to adapt any of the alphabets to your  personal needs and tastes.	2000-07-26
US	52866174	RC7EEM0V3IQLF	0767905172	310021894	Jemima J: A Novel	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Escapist fiction at its best!	This is the epitome of a fun novel, one that you can't take seriously, but at the same time, wonder &quot;what if?&quot;  Jemima is a seriously overweight, &quot;everyone's friend,&quot; journalist living in England.  She suffers from poor self-esteem and can't get ahead because everyone  judges her by her weight.  When she meets a gorgeous California hunk in a  chat room on the internet, she takes a little creative license with what  she looks like.  He falls immediately in love and insists that they meet.  This prompts her to almost starve herself and work out fanatically until  she sheds her weight to look like the computer enhanced picture that she  sent to him.  Of course, she is stunningly beautiful and attracts every man  around her from this point on.  Although she is in love with Ben, a former  reporter on her paper who is now a nationally known news reporter on TV,  she goes to Los Angeles to meet Brad.  Read the book to find out what  happens here, it takes a twist that you may or may not see coming.  You  have to take this book with a grain of salt, it's fiction for goodness  sake!  It's a good parable about feeling good about yourself no matter what  you look like.  It also proves that what looks good on the surface may not  be so delectable when you dig a little deeper.  I must say it's inspired me  to try to lose the 15 lbs. that have been hanging on me for the last few  years!  This is an easy summer read, so enjoy!	2000-07-22
US	52866174	R26Y6OUKTVX2E5	0395613035	682069924	GOLDEN GOOSE BOOK CL	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Four beautiful retellings of classic tales.	Two of my favorite nursery stories growing up were &quot;The Three Little Pigs,&quot; and &quot;The Three Bears.&quot;  Imagine my delight at finding a book which not only has these two classic tales, but, &quot;The Golden  Goose,&quot; and &quot;Tom Thumb&quot; as well.  They are retold  beautifully, the writing is emotional and reminiscent of nursery rhymes.  The book was originally published in 1905, and the pictures are totally  recognizable as being of that era...detailed and descriptive of the story.  I can hardly wait for my daughter to be old enough to enjoy this book as  much as I do!	2000-05-21
US	52866174	R3HFRUPFJXIUDU	015269062X	281270446	Rootabaga Stories, Part Two	Books	5	20	20	N	N	A wonderful fantasy of a book.	I wish I could give this book 10 stars...what can you say about an author that gives his characters such wacky and fitting names?  The &quot;Potato Face Blind Man,&quot; &quot;Bozo the Button Blaster,&quot; &quot;Ragbag  Mammy,&quot; and &quot;Spink and Skabootch&quot; leave their marks on your  memory as perfect children's fairy tale characters.  The imagery in this  book is unbelievable and I have to believe that this is the prose  equivalent of e.e. cummings poetry because Carl Sandburg enables you to see  the fantastic worlds he has created almost as if you had created them  yourself.  If you can get your hands on a copy of &quot;More  Rootabagas,&quot;  which is out-of-print, buy it, if only for the two  stories, &quot;A Girl Named Silver Pitchers Tells a Story About Egypt,  Jesse James, and Spanish Onions,&quot; and &quot;The Story of Peter Potato  Blossom Wishes and How She Went Down into Rootabaga Country and Came Back  with Five Sky Blue Whispering Cats.&quot;  I can't think of any more  lyrical and imaginative writings for children than the words you will find  in these, or any of the Rootabaga Stories.	2000-05-21
US	52866174	R3PTINTMEY0A87	0859531821	732335486	The Little Mouse, The Red Ripe Strawberry, and The Big Hungry Bear	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A book everyone will enjoy	This book is unique in that the story is told through the reader's point of view.  You are trying to coerce a mouse into sharing a ripe strawberry with you by convincing him that a bear is chasing him in order to get the  strawberry for himself. The story is cute and perfect for very young  readers and the illustrations are detailed and pretty much tell the story  all by themselves.  I don't know about my 15-month old, but this is one of  MY favorite books!	2000-05-02
US	52866174	R3PWH2466IYG9O	0380730138	979924066	Vinegar Hill (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	I can't decide if I like this book or not.	On one hand, the writing is beautiful and dark; Ansay really lets you get into the minds of each person in this story.  On the other hand, I was so depressed by the end that I had to say a little prayer of thanks for the  life I have, imperfect as it may be.  James made me sick...having been  physically and emotionally abused by his father and getting away from  it...why, why, why would he allow himself and his family to get back into a  situation like that no matter how desperate they were?  As for Ellen, at  first I felt sorry for her, but after awhile, I just wanted to yell at her  to stand up for herself already!  Her children are deeply troubled by the  atmosphere in the house and she has to leave every night for a long walk to  retain some sense  of herself...even though her son is traumatized by that  and thinks she's going to get killed.  I did feel pity for Mary  Margaret...being trapped in an arranged, loveless marriage and the  sacrifice of her twins; I could at least understand why she acted the way  she did. No one else had an excuse.  James's regression into a subservient  little boy had my nerves on end and the neglect of the children really is  what broke my heart.	2000-05-02
US	52866174	R2T2UX1YUVOEB9	0307155579	151194579	Richard Scarry's A Story A Day 365 Stories and Rhymes	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A great book for young readers	If you can find a copy of this book, I recommend it highly as perfect for young readers.  The stories and poems are very short and to the point so a child won't be overwhelmed by a huge plot or excess of words.  This was one of my first books and one from which my mom taught me to read at 3 years of  age. I hope to do the same with my daughter.	2000-04-29
US	52866174	R2BGAFAXVTRKGY	0451162919	887611900	Garden of Lies	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A story of true love	Although I find it extremely implausible that two women switched at birth would somehow miraculously find and fall in love with the same man a half world apart, that is the wonderful thing about fiction you get lost  in...it's like a soap opera, you never admit to watching one, but you know  you're addicted!  It's the Danielle Steele phenomenon.  This story is just  perfect; Rose and Rachel are knowingly switched at birth after a tragedy in  the hospital where they are born.  Rose grows up in a poor, strict,  catholic home and is in love with her neighboring boyfriend Brian.  Rachel  is raised in opulence, becomes a doctor and after finding out she can never  have children, volunteers to serve in Vietnam.  There she meets Brian and  they fall in love.  The scene where Rose finds out that Brian and Rachel  have gotten married just breaks my heart, and anyone who has ever been  dumped out of the blue will have tears in their eyes, I promise. Years  later, Brian and Rose come face to face and it is evident that Rose has  never gotten over him.  I got this book when it was originally published 10  years ago and have read it several times.	2000-04-29
US	52866174	R2ASOO461GC7UT	0307165485	458722247	Richard Scarry's Best Storybook Ever	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A childhood classic	I had a hard time finding this book for my daughter and finally came across it in a used bookstore.  This is such a wonderful book; the stories are varied and the pictures, as always with Richard Scarry, are just  beautiful.  I enjoy having volumes like this with many stories  included...sometimes we don't even read the text, but just talk about  what's in the pictures.	2000-04-29
US	52866174	R10361G5A4N01O	0060245603	167242009	Today I Feel Silly: And Other Moods That Make My Day	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A very fun book to read	I often read this book to my 15-month old daughter because she loves the rhymes and the pictures are cute.  Along with the text, we look at the little girl's expressions and talk about whether she is smiling, frowning,  etc.  The story is a great tool for showing and describing different  emotions as it is extremely important for children to be able to recognize  what they are feeling.	2000-04-29
US	52866174	R5VTXEO1COVNE	0874778093	36371402	Finding What You Didn't Lose: Expressing Your Truth and Creativity through Poem-Making (Inner Work Book)	Books	5	39	39	N	N	A wonderful guide to creativity	I have written (often bad) poetry as a means of expressing myself since I was 9 years old.  After going through this book, I have been amazed at the depth of feeling that has been hiding in me all these years!  You will be  amazed at the beautiful poetry you can create given the right tools and  instruction.  Even if you think you're not creative and can't write a word,  I hope you'll try this book...you'll be pleasantly surprised to find that  you can create poetry if given the opportunity.	2000-04-25
US	52866174	R1QJPBIU72K67C	0871401525	277450256	E.E. Cummings: Complete Poems 1904-1962	Books	5	24	28	N	N	Beautiful words	e.e. cummings is a master of the English language.  The way he uses words to paint a picture will leave you breathless and touch your heart.  These are not poems to be read lightly...you will need to think about what has  been written and how, but I think that each poem in its own way will  reflect a part of your own life once you figure out exactly what is being  said.  His combinations of words are unique and beautiful and create a  melody of poetry that you will fall in love with.  &quot;rain fell(as it  will in spring) ropes of silver gliding from sunny thunder into freshness  as if god's flowers were pulling upon bells of gold&quot;  How could you  not want to read this?	2000-04-25
US	52866174	RBVXWTK0JPMGK	0671034804	756309965	Essential Judaism: A Complete Guide to Beliefs, Customs & Rituals	Books	5	50	50	N	N	A treasure for the neophyte	I am not new to Judaism, but I have a lot to learn...actually, that is an understatement...I have mountains to learn!  Essential Judaism is the one book that all people interested in Judaism, whether just in passing, as a potential convert, or as an actual Jew, should own.  You will learn about  all phases of Jewish life...from prayer, festivals, and how to live  Jewishly, to Torah, mysticism, and philosophy.  The narrative is very  in-depth for such short overviews of all the various subjects and there are  also sidebars to further elaborate on some things, including a listing of  the entire 613 mitvot from the Torah. This book has been a valuable  learning tool for me.	2000-04-25
US	52866174	R2399OSUOJZMN2	038072930X	571083724	Turbulent Souls	Books	5	20	21	N	N	This book has changed my life	This is, very simply, an amazing book.  I am the daughter of a Catholic mother and Jewish Father who for the past 10 years has been searching for some semblance of spirituality in my life.  I could have written many of  the passages in this book, as they tell so accurately how I feel about my  mixed background.  On Jesus Christ:  &quot;...how shabbily he had  treated me, leaving me to trudge between the mountains of belief and  disbelief, too uninspired to climb the first, too timid to climb the  latter.&quot; I had to stop when I read that as it is exactly how I feel!  I always thought I was crazy because I feel so almost magnetically pulled  toward my Jewish heritage, but now I know it is because I have  &quot;curling around somewhere inside me a neshuma, a Jewish soul.&quot;  According to Jewish halachah (law), I am not Jewish because I am  patrilineally descended...but, thank you, Stephen Dubner, for validating my  Jewishness and letting me know that it's OK to follow my soul's longing for  Judaism no matter what obstacles may stand in my way.	2000-04-21
US	52866174	R1VXE4Y7OWQZ8C	0525945369	409680894	Lynelle By the Sea	Books	4	5	6	N	N	If you are a mom, have tissues handy	If you are a mother, or even if you're not, you will be moved to tears by both of these women; each of whom has to live through a mother's worst nightmare...one the death of her baby, and one having her baby stolen. I  couldn't put the book down until I knew what happened to baby Dylan and  Annie...and although she did a despicable thing, I couldn't help but but  feel some sympathy for Lynelle.  The ending is a testament to the forgiving  side of human nature even after being wronged in the worst possible way.  As for the breastfeeding references, as a mom who breastfed for 13 months,  I feel that they add so much to the story in that they really accentuate  the bonding and the depth of love that Lynelle felt for the two  babies...also, the pain that Annie feels when not being able to nurse  mirrors the pain that she feels during the absence of her son.	2000-04-21
US	52866174	RNIIERO6K0OL9	0679886478	860212379	The 20th-Century Children's Book Treasury: Picture Books and Stories to Read Aloud	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A wonderful book of concise picture stories.	This is truly a great book to have in any library, but if you are a real bibliophile, then you must also have the original single book versions of the stories you really like.  The reason I say this is because in the interest of whittling the book down to size, many of the original  illustrations have been cut from the stories.  I don't know about you, but  looking at all the beautiful pictures was half the fun of reading these  books when I was small.  It is convenient to have all these stories in one  volume.	1999-12-10
US	52866174	R2981898PHFSL3	0312082622	309178067	Mary Queen of Scotland and the Isles	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Historical fiction to get lost in.	I am an ardent fan of historical fiction and was definitely not disappointed with this book!  Don't be fooled by its length; it is engrossing and exciting, and you'll wish it was longer!  Queen Mary's life  starts out innocently enough...she is crowned Queen of Scotland at the age  of 9 days and at the age of 5 years, after being threatened by the English,  she is moved to France for sanctuary.  There she is engaged to marry the  Dauphin and she lives a lush, happy life until the age of 17, when her  husband, the King of France dies and leaves her with no recourse but to  reclaim her throne in Scotland.  The plots, intrigue, and scandal that  follow will capture your imagination.  Also interesting is the struggle  between Catholicism and Protestantism in her native country.  You will not  regret reading this novel!	1999-09-16
US	52866174	R2ZM1ZRV1N58BX	155972448X	405835847	Purple Reign: The Artist Formerly Known As Prince	Books	4	8	9	N	N	An intelligent review of Prince/O(+&gt; career.	This is not a trashy tell all biography of Prince's life, but rather a book that uses quotes from the man himself as well as articles and interviews with former band members and management to present an intelligent, informative look into the world of Prince/O(+&gt;.  Although much of the information presented here is common knowledge to diehard fans, it is still fascinating to read about the evolution of &quot;black&quot; music, funk, and the Minneapolis sound as it relates to Prince's music.  This is definitely a must-read if you are new to the jams and want to get a handle on what the addiction is.  Excellent discography and reviews of all commercial releases up to Emanicipation.	1998-05-11
US	52866174	RHOTOQ549SYWN	0684813955	312686756	TESSIE AND PEARLIE: A Granddaughter's Story	Books	5	8	8	N	N	An homage to old age	This is Joy Horowitz's tribute to her two jewish grandmothers.  They are both in their 90's and as feisty and loving as can be.  In a book full of wisdom, humor, and yes, recipes, there is a lingering sense of mortality as both bubbes tell their tales and wonder when death will claim them.  This is a book for anyone who treasures the stories of years past, who loved to sit at their grandmother's knee as she told stories of years gone by.  It will leave you at turns both happy and almost tearful as each grandmother grapples with the life she has lived and the fact that she won't be around much longer.  Please read this book, it will help you as you look at the big picture of life and determine what is really important to you	1997-07-21
