US	52860511	R1UXJKMEV1D47C	0812215303	616086004	Science Fiction Culture	Books	2	44	49	N	N	An Anthropological Trek Through SF Fandom	Camille Bacon-Smith, an academic folklore specialist, has spent almost two decades applying the methods of ethnographical research to the subculture that has grown up around science fiction literature, movies and artwork. She regularly attends SF conventions, reads fanzines, interviews both leaders and rank-and-file of the science fiction community and otherwise investigates Fandom in much the same way that Margaret Mead studied Samoa. &quot;Science Fiction Culture&quot; is the summation of her efforts. As one of the natives under scrutiny (being a long-time science fiction fan and past chairman of the World Science Fiction Convention), I read it with interest. Unhappily, though, it is one of those books that tries to do far too much and therefore accomplishes almost nothing.<BR>If I wished to be denigratory, it would be easy to utilize &quot;insider&quot; knowledge to catalogue the book's numerous errors of fact. On the one page that mentions my own name, I found five mistakes. None of them is serious (two surnames are misspelled, two people are assigned to the wrong home towns, one very well-known fan - universally referred to as &quot;Peggy Rae&quot; - is called &quot;Peggy&quot;), but they do suggest that the author is not in total command of her material. She is particularly weak on the development of Fandom before her own contact with it. To take an important example, she guesses that the sudden growth in the size of the World Science Fiction Convention in the 1960's resulted from the entry into Fandom of the &quot;counterculture&quot;, whereas the initial spurt (from 850 members in 1966 to over 1,500 in 1967) is readily explained by the advent of the original &quot;Star Trek&quot; television series. The next abrupt doubling, between 1977 and 1978, followed closely on the release of &quot;Star Wars&quot;.<BR>In addition, like any other stranger in a strange land, the author is at the mercy of her informants, who sometimes feed her biased information and once in a while, it appears, simply pull her leg. Her account of the bidding for the 1993 Worldcon reflects only the views of the successful bid and unfairly dismisses its opponents as motivated by resentment over being left out of leadership roles. (She also muddles the chronology of the contest.) As an instance of leg pulling, someone has given her the idea that a famous 1940's diatribe, which, among much else, deplored the (alleged and improbable) influence of homosexuals in Fandom, is a scandalous secret. This &quot;secret&quot; is, in fact, so familiar that another outsider, mystery writer Sharyn McCrumb, introduced a lightly fictionalized version into her novel &quot;Zombies of the Gene Pool&quot;.<BR>Despite some degree of inaccuracy and dubious interpretation, &quot;Science Fiction Culture&quot; might still be worth an additional star, were it not for three fundamental flaws. First, the author's prose is awkward, jargon-heavy and tedious. Second, she frequently theorizes before assimilating sufficient data and sees only what her theories tell her to see. Third, and most fatally, she devotes only about a third of her text to her nominal subject, an ethnographical investigation of Fandom. For want of space, vast reaches of pertinent data are virtually ignored (e. g., fanzine publishing and Fandom outside the United States) or greatly oversimplified (e. g., conventions other than Worldcons). The author apologizes for some of her omissions. It apparently does not occur to her that she could have avoided major gaps by writing a better focused book.<BR>The sections peripheral to Fandom consist of, first, lamentations on the travails of progressively chic groups (women, homosexuals, youth, sadomasochists) as they try to enter a supposedly white, male domain and, second, miscellaneous observations on the state of science fiction publishing. The &quot;travails&quot; aren't very interesting. As the author concedes, women were integrated into Fandom decades ago and homosexuals have encountered little resistance. The other groups that she discusses (by &quot;youth&quot;, it should be noted, she means the minuscule &quot;goth&quot; subculture, not people who are chronologically young) occasionally hang out at science fiction conventions but seem quite uninterested in associating with anyone beyond their own circles.<BR>Worthwhile accounts of &quot;outsiders trying to become insiders&quot; could be written about the relationship to Fandom of neopagans, libertarians, evangelical Christians or even role playing gamers, and it would be interesting to explore why certain ethnic minorities (blacks, Hispanics, Asians) rarely become fans. &quot;Science Fiction Culture&quot; has nothing to say on any of those topics.<BR>The section on the publishing industry may be of interest to aspiring writers, though a few statements are curious. Is it really common practice, as the author implies, to adopt a pseudonym in mid-career in order to fool chain store computers? I know of one prominent SF writer (Harry Turtledove) who writes historical novels under a pen name (H. N. Turteltaub) for that reason, but are there many other examples? If so, we aren't told about them here.<BR>Except for tenure committees and fans who want to see whether they have made it into the index, it is hard to imagine an audience for this book. It would certainly have been a better work if the author could have cast off the shackles of academic orthodoxy and come to her data, evidently extensive and valuable, with fewer conclusions ready made.	2001-09-08
US	52860511	RC0GHRST2AV4R	0156239302	401287515	The Dark Tower and Other Stories	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Lewis's Cinderellas	This collection will surprise many readers. According to academic urban legend, the title story, an incomplete novel recovered from C. S. Lewis's papers and first published nearly 15 years after his death, is shoddily written, bereft of moral or theological significance, imbued with obscene and homoerotic imagery, and quite likely a crude forgery. That evaluation has been propagated so energetically and successfully that it is hard to remember that the book received generally favorable initial reviews and once upon a time bid fair to become the Lewis counterpart to &quot;The Mystery of Edward Drood&quot;.<br />Having last picked up &quot;The Dark Tower&quot; two decades ago, I thought that I remembered a rather crude, incoherent adventure story, from which it would be pleasant to dissociate the purported author's reputation. It turned out, however, that I was remembering the image formed by the critics, not what was actually there.<br />Taking into account the fact that it is an unfinished draft, the prose of &quot;The Dark Tower&quot; is comparable to &quot;Out of the Silent Planet&quot;. Both are in the vein of pulp science fiction, of which Lewis was an avid reader, and both suffer noticeably from the author's inability to weave convincing pseudo-scientific patter. In &quot;Perelandra&quot;, Lewis solved that problem by substituting the openly supernatural for the scientific. Perhaps he would have hit upon the same device if &quot;The Dark Tower&quot; had reached a second draft.<br />The novel's central concept is movement among parallel universes, then a new idea in science fiction (first popularized by Murray Leinster, whose classic &quot;Sidewise in Time&quot; appeared in 1934). Lewis explains it by drawing on the relationship of lines to planes, an analogy long employed by theologians to illustrate how infinitely prolonged time differs from eternity.<br />In the opening chapters, a scientific team initiates contact between our time line and an &quot;Othertime&quot; that is, judging by broad hints in the surviving text, in thrall to one of the fallen eldils introduced in &quot;Out of the Silent Planet&quot;. The central element of the plot, already in motion before the fragment breaks off, was evidently to have been an Othertime invasion of our world via the eponymous Dark Tower. A young scientist is prematurely caught up in the struggle by being switched with his double in Othertime, finding himself in the role of a loathsome tyrant torn between the habits of his assumed body and the moral impulses of his this-earthly mind.<br />The involuntary visitor to Othertime suffers a physical deformity that is the ground for accusing the work of obscenity. A small, wasp-like sting grows out of his forehead, containing venom that, when injected into the spine, converts humans into vacant automatons. The Freudian implications are obvious (and are pointed out by the narrator), but that is the extent of overt or covert sexuality. Readers who can find pervasive erotic imagery here probably spend their time covering up naked chair legs. The presence of any homosexual interest is sheer fantasy.<br />One cannot know, of course, simply on the basis of reading it, whether &quot;The Dark Tower&quot; comes from Lewis's pen or that of a skillful forger, but it presents Lewis-like concepts and cannot be relegated to pseudepigraphical status on the basis of any deficiency in literary merit.<br />Two of the &quot;Other Stories&quot; printed with &quot;The Dark Tower&quot; are also disputed. One, &quot;The Man Born Blind&quot;, is an artfully fashioned parable, telling of a man who, given sight for the first time, grows suspicious because no one will tell him what light looks like. The editor dates the tale to the 1920's on tenuous evidence. Forensic tests have reportedly shown that the ink of the manuscript was manufactured after 1950, which is consistent with the high quality of the narrative and its implicit theological themes.<br />The second challenged story, &quot;Forms of Things Unknown&quot;, relies on a surprise ending that becomes too obvious too quickly. It is akin in quality to the two other (unquestionably authentic) short stories printed here. &quot;The Shoddy Lands&quot; is an unsubtle message story, while &quot;Ministering Angels&quot;, Lewis's lone attempt at comedy, is better in concept than execution. Rounding off the volume is &quot;After Ten Years&quot;, comprising the shards of what was to have been a retelling of the aftermath of the Trojan War. Lewis was seriously ill when he started it, and his death left it too fragmentary to evaluate.<br />&quot;The Dark Tower&quot; and &quot;The Man Born Blind&quot; are the scorned stepdaughters of the Lewis literary family. It is time for readers and critics to look at them first hand, rather than uncritically accept some stepmother's assurance that, yes, Cinderella is really, really ugly and a changeling to boot.	2001-08-16
US	52860511	RT8KJG1I1BI9W	1842121685	666945041	The Popish Plot (Phoenix Press)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A Vast Right-Wing Conspiracy, Restoration Style	In August 1678 Titus Oates, an unemployed clergyman of dubious habits, disclosed to a mentally unbalanced colleague, the Rev. Israel Tonge, the existence of a large scale Roman Catholic conspiracy to assassinate King Charles II and set up a puppet government that would return Protestant England to the days of Bloody Mary.  Oates had learned of this plot, he claimed, after converting to Catholicism the year before and spending a few months at a French seminary (from which he had been expelled for moral and intellectual deficiencies).  Leading members of England's underground Catholic priesthood had supposedly spoken freely in front of this unprepossessing novice, enabling him to construct a dense narrative of names, dates and \\"facts\\".  Tonge, author of numerous paranoid anti-Catholic tracts, was delighted to have such a witness to Papist malignity and rapidly pushed Oates in front of the authorities, including the king himself.  From this beginning followed, over the next year and a half, over 30 executions for participation in the imaginary plot.  The pursuit of the \\"plotters\\" was not the only, perhaps not even the greatest, miscarriage of justice of the era, but it is surely the best remembered, and most of the victims have since been recognized by Rome as martyrs for the Faith.  Six of them were canonized by Pope Paul VI in 1970.<br />John Kenyon's history, first published in 1972 (Phoenix Press reprints the slightly revised 1984 edition), is the classic account of the Plot, a story interesting both as a striking episode in English history and for the light it casts on similar conspiratorial accusations in later eras (even in our own).  Professor Kenyon furnishes a firm, clear record of frequently baffling events, demanding of the reader only a modest acquaintance with Restoration history and politics.  He also explains, as plausibly as one could hope, why belief in the Plot took root and flourished.<br />Oates and the copycat informers who supplemented his fantasy with ever more lurid tales drew on a deep-seated fear of Catholics and Catholicism, heightened by the perception that Romanism was steadily gaining strength and enjoyed special favor at the royal court (where, indeed, the Queen and the King's brother, the Duke of York, were Catholics).  A few Catholics confirmed the fear mongers by talking wildly about restoring the old religion (and a small number, like the famous Guy Fawkes, really did attempt murder and treason), but the typical recusant was a staunchly conservative landowner, attached to the existing order and wishing only to practice his religion without excessive harassment.  One reason why the Plot did not claim a far greater number of victims was that Protestant gentry in the countryside refused to believe charges against their Catholic neighbors and protected them from the power of the judiciary.<br />Anti-Catholicism was a constant in the English polity.  Compounding it were more adventitious factors:  the partisan hatreds left over from the Civil War (the judicial murder of Charles I was less than 30 years in the past), the paucity of sources of information about current events and, most important in this particular case, the Crown's lack of political confidence.  Charles II and his advisers believed that their domestic enemies were powerful, malicious and intractable.  They knew that the government was short of financial and military resources.  Thus, even though no one at Whitehall truly believed Oates, the safe, expedient path was to allow \\"justice\\" to devour a few sacrifices, while waiting for a backlash against the hysteria.  The waiting strategy in fact worked, and a powerful Tory reaction made Charles' last years politically comfortable, but the Plot martyrs gained no benefit thereby.<br />Amidst these large explanations, Professor Kenyon does not lose sight of the particular and accidental.  Oates was an exceptionally bold liar, who commanded belief by sheer effrontery.  And his story gained sensational publicity at an early stage when the magistrate before whom he swore his first deposition turned up murdered a few days later.  He then garnered undeserved credibility when a search of the papers of Edward Coleman, the Duke of York's sometime secretary, revealed correspondence with Louis XIV's confessor.  To deflect the informers from York, Coleman was sent to trial and execution.  His fate naturally made the uproar worse.  Instead of escaping suspicion, the Duke finally had to be sent abroad to appease the mob.<br />Other blameworthy behavior abounded.  Especially appalling is the conduct of the judges at the accused conspirators' trials.  One reads these accounts with a renewed appreciation of the virtues of our own judicial system.  Heartening, on the other hand, is the courage of the victims, none of whom, despite intense pressure, recanted his faith or implicated others with a false confession.<br />Professor Kenyon recounts these improbable events with care and even-handedness.  Indeed, he almost turns the latter virtue into a vice by searching for some shred of justification for unjustifiable conduct.  He suggests, for instance, that Edward Coleman was, by the standards of the time, actually guilty of treason, when all that the evidence shows is an effort to gull the French out of subsidies.  Less forgivably, he insinuates that perhaps the homosexual Oates had obtained authentic tidbits of information about Catholic activities in the course of affairs with high-ranking Jesuits - a completely unnecessary hypothesis for which there is no support at all.<br />Though its long-term impact was minor, the Popish Plot remains of interest to students of Seventeenth Century English politics, English Catholic history and conspiracy manias, for all of whom Professor Kenyon's volume is essential reading.<br />(A curious footnote:  Phoenix Press's cover reproduces period illustrations, which are interesting but have nothing to do with the subject of the book.  Instead, they portray scenes from the later \\"Rye House Plot\\", which differs from the Popish Plot in two hardly trivial respects:  First, it was a real conspiracy.  Second, the conspirators consisted largely of Protestants who had believed and even sponsored Titus Oates.)	2001-08-16
US	52860511	RYLND639X09VV	006063880X	535012118	C. S. Lewis: A Complete Guide to His Life & Works	Books	4	52	53	N	Y	A Lifetime of Lewis	C. S. Lewis would doubtless have scoffed at the idea of a reference book about himself, just as he disapproved of university courses devoted to modern authors on the sensible ground that &quot;helps&quot; to reading them are not needed and come between the writer and his audience.<br />Nonetheless, students and &quot;fans&quot; of the great Christian apologist and literary scholar now are offered two thick compendia on his life and work.  Each has its virtues and faults, and both are worthwhile investments - though not a substitute for the straight, unfiltered Lewis.<br />The &quot;Companion and Guide&quot;, reviewed here, is the production of one man, who has devoted almost his entire adult lifetime to editing and writing about Lewis.  The rival &quot;C. S. Lewis Readers' Encyclopedia&quot; is a composite work whose contributors range from giants in the field to eager amateurs.<br />When he first met C. S. Lewis in June 1963, Walter Hooper was an American schoolteacher who had dropped out of studying for the Episcopal priesthood and never gotten started as a graduate student in literature.  Instantly star-struck, he volunteered to help with secretarial chores.  Within a few months Lewis was dead of a heart attack, and this 32-year-old foreigner, whose academic credentials consisted of a master's degree in education and who had never published a word on any Lewisan topic, improbably became the great man's de facto literary executor.  Within a year he had edited the first collected edition of Lewis' poems, and he has worked at the same stand ever since.  The double meaning of the present volume's title is no accident.  The book is a companion and guide to readers of Lewis' work, but Lewis has also been, metaphorically, a lifetime companion and guide to Walter Hooper.<br />&quot;Companion and Guide&quot; weighs in at almost a thousand pages (twice the length of the &quot;Readers' Encyclopedia&quot;).  It leads off with a hundred page biography that may well be the best life of Lewis yet written (not that the competition is very formidable).  The next and longest section discusses each of CSL's books, with the inexplicable omission of &quot;The Allegory of Love&quot;, his seminal tome on courtly love and medieval poetry.  Of greatest interest are the accounts of how the works came to be written, which draw on Lewis' vast, incompletely published correspondence and on conversations with his large circle of friends.  Also provided are epitomes, which are useful for reference but sometimes flabby, and haphazard excerpts from book reviews.  The last feature calls attention to one of the Companion's defects:  Hooper is too much a Lewis partisan to pay much attention to detractors.  The uniform, almost gushing, praise of the quotations is not representative of contemporary reaction to Lewis.  It would be very surprising if smashing modern idols had made him popular among the high priests of idolatry.<br />Closely related to the discussions of the works are short essays on &quot;Key Ideas&quot;.  Relatively long pieces summarize Lewis' positions on such topics as &quot;Imagination&quot;, &quot;Natural Law&quot; and &quot;Reason&quot;.  Shorter ones range from &quot;Bulverism&quot; to &quot;Monarchy&quot; to &quot;Quiddity&quot;.  These rapid presentations of Lewis' point of view, quoting liberally from his own words, are excellent as far as they go, but have little critical depth.<br />Next come a &quot;Who's Who&quot; of people who were important to Lewis, a miscellaneous &quot;What's What&quot; of places, organizations, concepts, terms and facts (&quot;The Kilns&quot;, &quot;Oxford University Socratic Club&quot;, &quot;Anthroposophy&quot;, &quot;Don(s)&quot;, &quot;Stage Plays of the Chronicles of Narnia&quot;) that relate to Lewis in some fashion, and an 84 page bibliography of everything by Lewis that had appeared in print through about 1996.<br />The strength of the Companion is the immense fund of information that it provides.  Itsweaknesses are the author's uncritical devotion to his subject and the lacunae in those areas that don't interest him.  The academic side of Lewis' career, in particular, is underdeveloped.  One finds little about the controversy over the Oxford English curriculum, in which Lewis played a prominent role.  As already noted, &quot;The Allegory of Love&quot;, which made CSL's reputation as a scholar, gets scant notice.  Important essays like &quot;What Chaucer Really Did to Il Filostrato&quot;, &quot;Donne and Seventeenth Century Love Poetry&quot; and &quot;The Fifteenth-Century Heroic Line&quot; receive none at all.<br />The readers who will find the Companion most useful (and will prefer it to the Readers' Encyclopedia) are those who are interested in CSL primarily as a Christian thinker and novelist and who are more concerned with gaining a fuller appreciation of his writings than in examining what others have written about him.<br />Since another reviewer has raised it, one must address the question of Mr. Hooper's reliability.  When he first came to Lewis studies, a callow outsider abruptly elevated beyond his expectations or deserts, he sought to enhance his statute by falsely claiming a long and intimate association with Lewis.  That was a foolish course of action and gained enemies who have hounded him for decades with increasingly sensational accusations.  I have no way to judge whether any or all of the charges are well-founded, but they are mostly of interest to biographers of Hooper, not to students of Lewis.  Save in marginal areas and subject to normal human frailty, there is no valid reason to impugn the Companion's accuracy.  One may leave the last word on this topic to the Readers' Encyclopedia, which, in the course of a far from flattering article about Mr. Hooper, calls the Companion a &quot;landmark volume&quot;.  Its author may, for all I know, be a bad man, but he is a good encyclopedist.weaknesses are the author's uncritical devotion to his subject and the lacunae in those areas that don't interest him.  The academic side of Lewis' career, in particular, is underdeveloped.  One finds little about the controversy over the Oxford English curriculum, in which Lewis played a prominent role.  As already noted, &quot;The Allegory of Love&quot;, which made CSL's reputation as a scholar, gets scant notice.  Important essays like &quot;What Chaucer Really Did to Il Filostrato&quot;, &quot;Donne and Seventeenth Century Love Poetry&quot; and &quot;The Fifteenth-Century Heroic Line&quot; receive none at all.<br />The readers who will find the Companion most useful (and will prefer it to the Readers' Encyclopedia) are those who are interested in CSL primarily as a Christian thinker and novelist and who are more concerned with gaining a fuller appreciation of his writings than in examining what others have written about him.<br />Since another reviewer has raised it, one must address the question of Mr. Hooper's reliability.  When he first came to Lewis studies, a callow outsider abruptly elevated beyond his expectations or deserts, he sought to enhance his statute by falsely claiming a long and intimate association with Lewis.  That was a foolish course of action and gained enemies who have hounded him for decades with increasingly sensational accusations.  I have no way to judge whether any or all of the charges are well-founded, but they are mostly of interest to biographers of Hooper, not to students of Lewis.  Save in marginal areas and subject to normal human frailty, there is no valid reason to impugn the Companion's accuracy.  One may leave the last word on this topic to the Readers' Encyclopedia, which, in the course of a far from flattering article about Mr. Hooper, calls the Companion a &quot;landmark volume&quot;.  Its author may, for all I know, be a bad man, but he is a good encyclopedist.	2001-08-07
US	52860511	R4OYXEXTZOE1Z	0310215382	735207965	The C. S. Lewis Readers' Encyclopedia	Books	4	38	38	N	Y	The Lewis Abecedarium	C. S. Lewis would doubtless have scoffed at the idea of a reference book about himself, just as he disapproved of university courses devoted to modern authors on the sensible ground that &quot;helps&quot; to reading them are not needed and come between the writer and his audience.<br />Nonetheless, students and &quot;fans&quot; of the great Christian apologist and literary scholar now are offered two thick compendia on his life and work.  Each has its virtues and faults, and both are worthwhile investments - though not a substitute for the straight, unfiltered Lewis.<br />The &quot;Readers' Encyclopedia&quot;, reviewed here, contains articles by 44 contributors, many of them very prominent in the world of C. S. Lewis studies.  The one striking absentee is Walter Hooper, Lewis' semi-official literary executor and solo author of the rival work, &quot;C. S. Lewis:  Companion and Guide&quot;.  This omission is, as the saying goes, not accidental.<br />In more than 400 pages, consisting of a 57-page biography followed by topical entries, the Encyclopedia covers the full scope of Lewis' life, work and thought.  The &quot;work&quot; draws the greatest attention.  There are articles not only on the major books but also on virtually all of Lewis' shorter pieces, including even letters to newspapers.  In addition to summarizing content, most of the contributors consider its significance, respond to the views of critics or advance criticisms of their own.  They may admire their subject, but this volume is not the production of a fan club.<br />Weighing the Encyclopedia against the Companion, the latter is heavier (almost twice as many pages), but the former is wider in scope, with more attention to CSL's career as a scholar and more systematic coverage of his entire body of work.  It makes room by treating topics more succinctly.  Epitomes are shorter, there is less biographical detail, and quotations from the Lewis canon are less extensive.  Unfortunately, one space saving idea was the omission of an index, the need for which is distinctly not obviated by putting articles into alphabetical order.<br />Often both works are excellent, though many times in different ways.  The Companion's life of CSL's close friend Owen Barfield tells much about the man but is rather imprecise on his ideas and how they influenced Lewis.  The Encyclopedia's fine article fills those gaps.<br />Elsewhere the Encyclopedia is clearly superior.  The Companion's discussions of &quot;An Experiment in Criticism&quot; and &quot;The Personal Heresy&quot; leave out the context in which Lewis developed his critical theories.  The Encyclopedia gives him a place in the debates occasioned by the &quot;New Criticism&quot;.<br />The Companion has its innings, too.  Its introductory biography is fuller and less given to unsupported psychological speculations.  The Encyclopedia writer, curiously, accepts the conjectures of the anti-Christian polemicist A. N. Wilson on major issues (e. g., Lewis's relationship with Mrs. Moore and the impact of his debate with Professor Anscombe), even while pointing out that Wilson in unreliable in detail and malicious in intent.<br />There are spots, inevitably, where both volumes are weak.  Neither describes the substance of Professor G. E. M. Anscombe's famous critique of Chapter III of &quot;Miracles&quot; or how Lewis amended the text to answer her criticisms.  Those matters are surely of more lasting import than whether Lewis did or did not feel &quot;defeated&quot; after debating Anscombe.<br />They can also fail in different ways on the same topic.  The Encyclopedia's article on &quot;The Dark Tower&quot;, the now controversial novel fragment published after Lewis's death, is a one-sided diatribe on behalf of the theory that the work is a forgery.  The Companion naturally does not allude to that allegation (as Walter Hooper is the accused forger), and it also says virtually nothing useful about the story.  In fact, the uninspired plotsummary is marked by omissions and mistakes.  (The writer does not realize, for instance, that &quot;Michael&quot; is the given name of the protagonist, not of his Othertime double.)<br />Finally, each volume has its (very small) share of this-can't-be-real lapses.  An Encyclopedia article begins, &quot;C. S. Lewis followed traditional theological thinking of his time in presuming the Holy Spirit was the third person of the Trinity.&quot;  What a ripe example of the liberal historicizing that CSL so persistently combated!  But it is probably a more serious matter that the Companion barely notices &quot;The Allegory of Love&quot;, Lewis's pioneering work on medieval love poetry that laid the foundation of his academic reputation.<br />But let me pause here.  It is easy - and an occasion of intellectual sin - to scrutinize every inch of a mighty edifice in search of blemishes.  Overall, the Encyclopedia is a capacious and well-wrought work.  It may not be a work that C. S. Lewis would have desired anyone to undertake, but I do not think that he can be displeased with the quality of the result.	2001-08-07
US	52860511	RA2X4UV7VJEMV	0826409288	792972875	Shakespeare, In Fact	Books	5	25	35	N	Y	The Penultimate Word	The review posted below by David Kathman succinctly summarizes the content of this scholarly polemic against the absurdities of the literary &quot;Oxford Movement&quot;.  I just wish to note that the 1999 paperback edition is a straight reprint of the 1994 hardbound.  Therefore, while it addresses the orthodox Looney-Ogburn-Whalen school of anti-Stratfordianism, there is nothing about more recent mutations.  Readers who want to keep up to date on the controversy should take a look at Professor Kathman's Shakespeare Authorship Web site, which discusses virtually all of the Oxfordian arguments and links to such interesting material as a complete edition of the Earl of Oxford's extant letters, which may prove disillusioning to those who cherish an image of the earl as a polymathic genius.<br />Even though it does not swat the very latest fantasies of Authorship Cultism, &quot;Shakespeare, In Fact&quot; is both entertaining and useful.  Reading it will leave one better informed about not only the narrow question of who wrote Shakespeare but also the broader context of the Elizabethan stage and Renaissance literature.	2001-08-04
US	52860511	R4UETSWOTN4O7	0130917397	705391997	ComputingFailure.com: War Stories from the Electronic Revolution	Books	3	2	2	N	N	CutAndPaste.com	The editor (or, more accurately, compiler) of this volume is honest about how he put it together:  He clipped interesting stories about unsuccessful dot.com companies and slipped them into a file.  When the file was thick enough, he arranged the stories more or less topically, padded them with his file of recent non-dot.com &quot;computer failure&quot; articles, obtained reprint permissions and, voila!, produced a book (or, more accurately, a &quot;book&quot;).<br />The stories are grouped into chapters, and between the chapters comes the editor's intellectual contribution, consisting mostly of jejune observations that we have all seen or thought before.<br />If you read The Wall Street Journal and The Industry Standard, you have already read most of this book, and the parts that you haven't read are of marginal interest.  On the positive side, the articles are interesting, even though their moral is generally one that was old when Charles Dow was knee-high to a debenture:  Don't throw money into an enterprise that you don't understand.<br />And the moral of this review is:  Throw money at this book if you want a permanent anthology of schadenfreude.  Otherwise, you got some bucks to invest?  Right here I have the Next Great Thing. . . .	2001-07-26
US	52860511	R1WBTLYD10MY8G	1842122029	186721473	Archbishop Laud (Phoenix Press)	Books	4	29	29	N	N	Less Than the Whole Laud	The mocking grace &quot;To God much praise, and little laud to the Devil&quot; reflected the opinion of many of William Laud's contemporaries - and also of several generations of Whig historians.  To Macaulay and his ilk, Charles I's Archbishop of Canterbury was a stock villain, culpable for the royal policies that provoked the English Civil War.<br />Hugh Trevor-Roper's biography (first published in 1940; Phoenix Press reprints the very slightly revised 1961 edition) cannot be called a rehabilitation, but it does correct, and has largely superseded, the Whig caricature.  (The Britannica entry on Laud, for instance, reads like a precis.)   Instead of a Wolsey-like grand prelate, Laud is shown to have been an honest, hardworking man, notable both for extensive charities and for fostering Greek, Arabic and Persian studies.  His most conspicuous faults were personal rudeness, excessive severity as a judge (even by the severe standards of the time) and political maladroitness.  Though he left behind many volumes of writings, he never grasped the importance of propaganda or public opinion.  His immediate reaction to opposition was clumsy suppression, an instinct that led him to advocate the forcible imposition of episcopal governance on the Scottish church.  From the failure of the &quot;Bishops' War&quot; followed the disintegration of Charles' personal rule, the Short and Long Parliaments, civil war and Laud's own murder by Act of Parliament in 1645.<br />Trevor-Roper recounts Laud's career in, as one would expect, a lively and opinionated, yet thoroughly scholarly, fashion.  He emphasizes high politics and ecclesiastical conflict but also directs attention to Laud's achievements as Chancellor of Oxford University, where his impact may have been more lasting than on either Church or State.  There is little speculation about the Archbishop's private life, for which hardly any evidence survives.  He never married, apparently kept no mistresses, lived unostentatiously andleft behind almost no purely personal correspondence or anecdotes.  Trevor-Roper surmises that he tended to have allies rather than friends, but the truth is unknowable.<br />Excellent though it is in most respects, &quot;Archbishop Laud&quot; suffers from distortion in one key area.  The biographer takes it as a fundamental truth that 17th Century men were as secular in outlook as his own 20th Century circle of acquaintances.  Therefore, religious principles must have been mere masks for social and political content.  Men adopted Puritan or Arminian or Roman Catholic theology because they liked the political doctrines associated with those labels.<br />That premise is no doubt true of many figures of the day, but Trevor-Roper's own narrative exposes its dubiety in this particular case.  The tenet that Laud advanced most persistently, in the teeth of massive opposition by both clergy and laity, was the importance of preserving continuity with the pre-Reformation Church.  He was not sympathetic to Roman Catholicism but would not abandon traditional doctrines and rituals simply because they had been labeled &quot;popish&quot;.  In these views he followed Lancelot Andrewes and Richard Hooker, and it is largely because of his efforts that their species of &quot;Anglo-Catholicism&quot; lasted beyond the lifetimes of their personal disciples.<br />None of the distinctive issues addressed by the Andrewes-Hooker school is important to Trevor-Roper.  Hence, he concludes, none of them could really have been important to Laud.  The &quot;true&quot; reason for, say, upholding the mystical character of the Eucharist was evidently to strike a blow at enclosures, emigration and the pretensions of Parliament.  Rather an indirect blow, one might think.<br />If one imagines that Laud's ostensible hierarchy of values was his real one, his life comes into clearer focus.  Activities such as the promotion of scholarship and the recovery of the church's property rights were not disconnected enthusiasms but elements of a program for reinforcing the links between contemporary and ancient Christianity and safeguarding a refurbished church from the influence of modernist opinion.  Likewise, his indifference to politically attractive pan-Protestant initiatives, a stance that puzzles Trevor-Roper, reflects his desire to hold the English church at a distance from Reformation theology.<br />Although Trevor-Roper pronounces Laud a &quot;failure&quot;, the Laudian tradition held a prominent, occasionally preeminent, place in the Church of England for three hundred years, and from that base it has gained an extended, if attenuated, influence.  The descendants of Puritan zealots now study the Fathers of the Church, take the sacraments seriously, pay heed to the continuity of Christian experience, celebrate the ancient holy days and even admit religious images into their sanctuaries.  From the perspective of 1645, that is an astonishing evolution.  There is no way to know what might have been, but one cannot help suspecting that today's Protestant Christianity would be much more drab, anti-historical and unintellectual had William Laud never lived.	2001-05-05
US	52860511	RSU6WSIIYZJ5F	0684826585	975185304	Alias Shakespeare	Books	1	45	74	N	N	A Test of Sobran's Method	Joseph Sobran rests much of his case on his self-proclaimed ability to detect resemblances between the phrasing of the Earl of Oxford's small corpus of undisputed poems and the works conventionally attributed to William Shakespeare.  He claims that these run into the &quot;hundreds&quot;, &quot;far too many to be dismissed as insignificant&quot;.  Critics have asserted, to the contrary, that the number of parallels is not at all surprising, because Mr. Sobran's methodology is entirely subjective:  He looks into the clouds and sees the shapes that he wants to find.<br />Recently I discovered that &quot;Alias Shakespeare&quot; itself contains an inadvertent experiment that provides evidence concerning the acuteness of the Sobran method.  Appendix 2 reprints all of the poems certainly or with some degree of probability ascribed to Oxford.  The edition is based on Steven May's (first published the journal &quot;Studies in Philology&quot; (1980) and conveniently reprinted in Professor May's book, &quot;The Elizabethan Courtier Poets&quot;).  Mr. Sobran accompanies these texts with his lists of Shakespearean parallels, of which he does indeed find hundreds.<br />Through some oversight, however, he has included, as part of the poem beginning &quot;In Peascod time when hound to horn gives ear while buck is kill'd&quot;, sixteen lines that were written not by Oxford but by Thomas Churchyard, a hanger-on at Elizabeth's court.  Professor May prints these verses as &quot;Poem IVa&quot; in his edition.  Twelve lines (probably) by Oxford (&quot;Poem IV&quot;) continue Churchyard's piece.<br />We have, therefore, a passage that Mr. Sobran believes to be Oxfordian but that is really from a different pen.  If his method is reliable, one would expect him to find few Shakespearean resemblances here.  If it is mere wishful thinking, alleged echoes of Shakespeare should be discovered about as densely here as elsewhere.<br />What is the result of the experiment?  In sixteen lines, Mr. Sobran finds sixteen parallels to Shakespeare.  In the next twelve lines, really written by Oxford, he uncovers ten.  Looking more widely, I cannot find any Oxfordian passage of comparable length where Sobran finds as much &quot;Shakespeare&quot; as he does in Churchyard.  The one poem that the Earl had printed under his own name has fifteen parallels in nearly twice as many (26) lines.<br />What does this mean?  That Thomas Churchyard was the real mind behind &quot;Shakespeare&quot;?  He has never been a candidate before, and the fact that &quot;Venus and Adonis&quot; appeared when he was in his 74th year might tell against him, but he lived, like Oxford, until 1604 and strikes me as at least as plausible a pretender to Shakespeare's bays.<br />That will not, I'm sure, be Mr. Sobran's solution.  No doubt he will simply annex Churchyard to Oxford's oeuvre.  He has already shown signs of becoming an Oxfordian imperialist, claiming the sonnet cycle of one &quot;E.C.&quot; for his hero and announcing last year in his newsletter that &quot;a thousand Petrarchan sonnets ascribed to others were actually Oxford's, as I will argue in a future book&quot;.<br />If Mr. Sobran continues on this path, the study of Elizabethan literature will be greatly simplified.  I eagerly await word that the busy nobleman ghosted Marlowe and Kyd and Nashe and Peale and Jonson and Beaumont and Fletcher and Sidney and Donne and Spenser.  Indeed, since he was able to create a third of the Shakespearean canon from beyond the grave, why should he not also be the true Dryden and Pope?  One does hope that Mr. Sobran has the time and energy to pursue his parallels whithersoever they may lead.	2001-02-09
US	52860511	R3VF1PKAYWE6QM	0192827235	832815289	Nina Balatka and Linda Tressel (The World's Classics)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The Alternative Trollope	In 1867, at a time when he was one of the best known and best selling authors in the world, Anthony Trollope conceived the idea of experimenting with anonymous publication, in order to find out whether the multitude bought his books for their literary excellence or merely for the &quot;brand name&quot; on the cover.  Two relatively short novels, &quot;Nina Balatka&quot; and &quot;Linda Tressel&quot;, were the result.  Taken together, they offer a glimpse of a different Trollope from the familiar chronicler of politicians and parsons.<br />The two stories have much in common.  Each is set in a foreign city that Trollope had recently visited (&quot;Nina&quot; in Prague, &quot;Linda&quot; in Nuremberg), with a plot centered on the impact of an aunt's religious bigotry on a young woman's marital prospects.  In one, the zealous aunt is Roman Catholic and opposes her niece's betrothal to a wealthy Jew.  In the other, an Anabaptist aunt strives to promote a union between beautiful, wealthy Linda Tressel and a clownish, middle-aged bureaucrat.<br />&quot;Nina&quot; is the better realized of the two tales.  Troubling the course of true love are both the antisemitism of the Balatka family and the countervailing suspicions of the Jewish community, forces that work to drive the lovers apart.  Some of the machinations are clumsy, but character is, as usual, more important than incident in Trollope.  The portrayal of the mutually hostile religious communities is especially effective, showing a broad range of attitudes in each camp.  Nina and her fiancé are themselves complicated figures, for it takes a long time for their love to completely overcome prejudices instilled from childhood.<br />&quot;Linda&quot;, by contrast, suffers from dramatis personae who are mostly caricatures, out of place in a serious, even grim, story.  The religious motif verges on the absurd.  There are reasons why a 19th century Catholic family would revolt against a relative's marriage to a Jew.  Thereare none to move an Anabaptist to insist on linking her nearest kinswoman to a worldly boor.  Indeed, the author does not have much notion of what &quot;Anabaptists&quot; are.  (He seems to regard them as a species of Calvinist, which is about like labeling Ross Perot a &quot;Republican&quot;.)  Religious bigotry detached from any recognizable religion can evoke only laughter, which is not the response that &quot;Linda Tressel&quot; is supposed to arouse.<br />Trollope's experiment did not turn out particularly well.  The mildly unusual settings and themes of these works could not hide his identity from alert critics, several of whom quickly pierced the veil of anonymity.  On the other hand, readers were fooled and declined to buy, even though the reviews were generally positive.  &quot;Another ten years of unpaid unflagging labor might have built up a second reputation,&quot; Trollope wrote in his autobiography, but &quot;I could not at once induce English readers to read what I gave to them, unless I gave it with my name.&quot;  That is what he did thereafter, bringing the career of the &quot;alternative Trollope&quot; to an end.	2001-02-01
US	52860511	R2AY0LVJ1SW1GU	0879727705	67866528	The Tented Field: A History of Cricket in America	Books	3	10	11	N	Y	Slow Pitch	Sports histories fall into two categories:  fans' histories - replete with memorable games, famous players, rules changes, league standings, and team and individual records - and academics' histories, which brush aside those matters in favor of sociology, cultural analysis and politics.  While Tom Melville is a cricket fan (author of a proselytizing primer, &quot;Cricket for Americans&quot;), he writes here as an academic, with chapter titles like, &quot;The Retreat from Cosmopolitanism and the Fallacy of the Chadwick Thesis&quot;.  The upshot is a thoroughly researched volume that concentrates almost exclusively on what Americans thought about cricket and why they did (or more often did not) take it up.<br />The main subject of &quot;The Tented Field&quot; is cricket's unsuccessful rivalry with baseball.  The older sport had solid foundations in pre-Civil War America but progressively gave way to its younger cousin.  Mr. Melville traces the peaks and valleys of cricket's popularity from the 1830's, when organized play first appeared, through the first decade of the 20th century, when a final upswing failed to take hold.  He has much to say about who played cricket, and when and where and why.  How they played and what they did scarcely enters the picture.  Save for an occasional brief anecdote and several reproductions of photographs and engravings, cricket itself is all but invisible throughout the work.  As a small instance, Mr. Melville has unearthed the box score (to use the baseball term) of a famous 1845 match, legendarily the first in which native Americans held their own against immigrants from England.  He uses this evidence to probe the ethnic makeup of the sides but neither reprints it nor tells us what happened on the field.<br />The author cannot, of course, be blamed for having chosen not to write fans' history, but anyone who picks this volume up under the delusion that he will find accounts of the exploits of American cricketers should be forewarned.  The academic delver into sports history will find better rewards.  The research is prodigious.  One quakes at the thought of how many yellowing newspapers and forgotten magazines Mr. Melville had to turn over to compile his 57 page list of American cricket clubs.  On the other hand, the conclusions drawn from this mass of material are a bit confused.  The summary statements in the final chapter are difficult to relate to what has gone before, and the ultimate verdict, &quot;Cricket failed in America because it never established an American character&quot;, sounds less like an answer than a restatement of the question.<br />&quot;The Tented Field&quot; contains abundant raw materials for a history of cricket in the United States, but that history, from the point of view of either fan or academic, has yet to be written.	2001-01-30
US	52860511	R2ZTRNJI6Y0N2G	031219322X	853060163	Raj; The Making And Unmaking Of British India	Books	4	50	55	N	Y	Vivid Colors, Fuzzy Shapes	Whatever its impact on India, the two centuries of the British Raj were an inspiration for novelists, poets, painters, film makers and popular historians.  Lawrence James falls into the last group.  His &quot;Raj&quot; is a set of overlapping portraits:  some exciting, some grandiose, some grim, some exotic, all animated and colorful.  They do not quite blend into a coherent picture of British rule but are fascinating to view.<br />Mr. James has set himself the task of covering political, institutional and social history.  Although he limits himself to the British point of view, the job is too big for even a bulky volume like this one.  As a consequence, many years and events receive brief notices or none at all.  (By comparison, Sir Penderel Moon's &quot;The British Conquest and Dominion of India&quot;, which concentrates almost completely on politics, is over twice as long.)  The institutional and social accounts likewise jump around.  There is, for example, a section, set before the Indian Mutiny of 1857, on the onerous taxation imposed on Indian villages, in which we are told of tax rates of 50 to 75 percent of net income.  Later, in a different context, appear economic statistics for a single locality, which have the villagers paying taxes of about five percent.  The discrepancy is not explained, nor even alluded to.  Did the British wisely cut taxes after the Mutiny?  Were rates drastically different in different areas?  Did widespread evasion make the nominal rates a sham?  Are the figures for some reason not comparable?  There is no way to tell, and the question is surely not unimportant.<br />Elsewhere, as in the section on the Princely States, the author recounts a multitude of details without leaving a clear impression.  One would like some estimate of the balance between playboy rajas and their hardworking counterparts, and between princes loyal to the paramount power and those who submitted only under duress.  The mere alternation of scandal and praiseis not satisfactory.<br />If, however, one looks at the parts without worrying about their sum, this is an informative (and certainly lively) book.  Subjects range from concise histories of the Raj's most dramatic eras (its formation in the 18th Century, the Great Mutiny and the nationalist struggles of the 20th century) to taxation and policing to the social and sexual lives of the sahib class to India's participation in the World Wars to literature and films about the Raj.  Unhappily, the author's serviceable prose is too frequently marred by copy editing that is wretched even by the low standards of our day.  Jarring is the frequent use of &quot;whom&quot; where &quot;who&quot; would be correct (a most unusual error).  Surrealistic is this garbled statement (p. 451) about a corps of staunchly Islamic troops:  &quot;Pathans, always highly receptive to Pan-Islamic appeals, were responsible for two mutinies of the 130th Baluchis during the winter of 1914-15, both sparked off by fears of being forced to follow Muslims.&quot;  My puzzlement lasted until I figured out that &quot;to follow Muslims&quot; was supposed to read &quot;to fight fellow Muslims&quot;.<br />Some earlier reviews on this site decry Mr. James' supposed partiality for the British rulers and inattention to the masses of their subjects.  That is a misguided criticism.  The author is alert for signs of racialism, arrogance and ineptitude among the British, occasionally to the point of unfairness.  Were those Englishmen who deplored Hindu customs really more blameworthy than the post-1948 politicians who sought to suppress them and turn India into a secular state (an effort that is now encountering a dangerous backlash)?  As for his summary evaluation that the Raj was good for the subcontinent, that is a left-handed compliment.  He reckons that, given the realities of 18th and 19th century geopolitics, India was bound to fall prey to some form of European imperialism and that the British form was more benign than any of the alternatives.<br />It is true that he is strongly critical of Mahatma Gandhi's insouciance concerning the outcome of World War II and of vain, incompetent Lord Mountbatten's handling of the partition between India and Pakistan.  Anyone who thinks that India would have been better off in the Far Eastern Co-Prosperity Sphere or that Mountbatten deserves no blame for the butcher's bill of 1948 should turn elsewhere for reading matter, preferably to works of utopian fantasy.<br />The Raj is such a sprawling subject that no single volume can paint it entire.  This one, while imperfect in many ways, is a good starting point.	2001-01-28
US	52860511	RP90YS4LI40B3	0192837184	94152432	Lady Anna (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	56	58	N	Y	An Incomplete Saga	Anthony Trollope declared once that &quot;Lady Anna&quot; was &quot;the best novel I ever wrote&quot;.  Readers did not agree.  Appearing between the masterpieces &quot;Phineas Redux&quot; and &quot;The Way We Live Now&quot;, it sold poorly and has been neglected ever since.  Trollope blamed this failure on his audience's objections to the heroine's choice of a husband, though similar complaints, much more vehemently expressed, had not sunk &quot;The Small House at Allington&quot;.  (There Lily Dale remains faithful to the memory of a cad, scorning the devoted attentions of a worthy suitor.  Anna's wooers, by contrast, are both good men, though vastly different in rank and personality.)<br />&quot;Lady Anna&quot; is, in fact, a well-knit narrative with more suspense than is usual for Trollope.  Will the courts declare Anna to be Lady Anna Lovel, heiress to 35,000 pounds a year, or merely Anna Murray, a pauper?  Which of her suitors, the sometimes surly tailor Daniel Thwaite or her handsome, good-natured cousin Lord Lovel, will Anna prefer?  Will Daniel's political principles lead to a breach with his childhood sweetheart?  Will the impoverished Lord Lovel find honorable means to support his noble rank?  The plot takes surprising, if not astonishing, turns; the characterization is as deft as ever; and there is a leavening of subtle humor, such as Daniel's cross-purposes consultation with a quondam radical poet (a thinly disguised Robert Southey) who has evolved into an intractable Tory.<br />The book's weakness is that the leading characters are, by and large, decent folk at the beginning and, except for one who falls into a state akin to madness, remain decent, if not unchanged, to the end.  Conflicts end in rational compromises.  Everybody eventually sees everybody else's point of view.  Even the lawyers on opposite sides of Lady Anna's case get along amicably.  (One solicitor does have the sense to grumble that such harmony is unprofessional.)<br />Trollope's liking for this novel may have arisen from the fact that it is light, sunny and fresh.  There may be an evil earl in the first chapter and a mad countess in the last, but how pleasant for the writer to be free for a time from the political intrigues, financial manipulations and cynical worldliness of the Palliser saga and &quot;The Way We Live Now&quot;!  Moreover, &quot;Lady Anna&quot; was, in its creator's mind, only a prologue.  The last paragraph promises a (never written) sequel, where the characters doubtless were intended to meet sterner challenges.  There are hints that the scene would have shifted to Australia and America and that the hero's and heroine's homegrown principles were to be put to the test in those lands.  Thus the author had much in view that he never disclosed to his readers, perhaps accounting for part of the discrepancy between his opinion and theirs.<br />No one who has not read all of the Palliser and Barset novels, not to mention &quot;The Way We Live Now&quot;, should pick up &quot;Lady Anna&quot;.  I recommend it immediately after the last-named.  It will cleanse the palate and leave a lingering regret that the rest of Anna's and Daniel's and Lord Lovel's adventures will never be known.<br />Incidental note:  The introduction to the Oxford World's Classics edition, the one that I am reviewing, is an extraordinarily silly example of lit crit bafflegab.  Don't read it before reading the novel.  Read afterwards, its wrong-headed ideological interpretations may prove amusing.	2001-01-28
US	52860511	R2YQ16PWYEAV2S	0415118360	711370365	Origen (The Early Church Fathers)	Books	4	64	67	N	Y	The Bible Through a Different Glass	Origen (c. 185 - c. 250) is, with Tertullian, one of the two prolific ante-Nicene Christian authors who is not recognized as a saint. That verdict on Tertullian, an apostate to the Montanist sect, is not surprising. Origen, however, was the most prominent Christian teacher and scholar of his day, remained steadfastly loyal to the Church, died as a martyr and was admired fervently by such great and unquestionably orthodox theologians as Gregory of Nyssa. Notwithstanding such credentials, his ideas fell under suspicion soon after his death, and &quot;Origenism&quot; has since borne a taint of heresy.<br />Joseph Trigg, an Episcopal clergyman and author of a previous life of Origen (&quot;Origen: The Bible and Philosophy in the Third-century Church&quot; (1983)), would like to restore his subject's reputation and introduce him to contemporary Christians. To that end, he has assembled this anthology of a dozen selections: seven Biblical commentaries, four homilies and a letter to St. Gregory the Wonder Worker. Most of these are excerpts from, or fragments of, longer works, but each is substantial in itself. None will be familiar to the non-specialist. Not included are Origen's best known treatise (the source of many later doubts about his orthodoxy), &quot;Peri Archon&quot; (&quot;On First Principles&quot;), and his apologia &quot;Contra Celsum&quot;, both readily found elsewhere and neither typical of the author's work.<br />Origen's great subject was the interpretation of Scripture. These texts illustrate his approach, which differs strikingly from that of any modern commentator. The underlying theory is that, because God is the author of the Bible, every word of the text is significant. But, because God is supremely subtle, that significance is not evident to the untutored reader. The plain, obvious meaning is, to Origen's mind, usually the least important. The deepest, spiritual truths can be uncovered only through learned scholarship, augmented by prayer.<br />These principles lead to minute, painstaking analysis. Book I of the commentary on John's Gospel, 46 pages in this edition, is devoted to discussing two words. The conclusions reached through this effort can be unexpected and may often look arbitrary, as when Jeremiah's lamentations over Jerusalem are construed as an allegory of the mission of the Apostles or Jesus's washing of his disciples' feet is taken as symbolic of Christian pedagogy.<br />Because this way of reading Scripture is so foreign to our habits, these writings, if perused quickly and carelessly, are more likely to bewilder than enlighten. Origen's method and assumptions obviously bear no resemblance to modern Biblical scholarship, despite his sedulous care to establish the most accurate possible text. Nor can he be grouped with the fundamentalists. He agrees with them that the Bible is the very Word (and words) of God. From that premise, the draws the unfundamentalist conclusion that statements of fact are frequently not to be taken literally and that ordinary Christians get little out of Scripture without expert guidance.<br />To read Origen as more than an historical curiosity requires, then, the adoption of an unfamiliar perspective on the Bible. Fr. Trigg's introduction, while offering a useful account of Origen's career and posthumous reputation, unfortunately pays little attention to furnishing equipment for such a feat of intellectual imagination. A work like James Kugel's &quot;The Bible As It Was&quot;, dealing with the very similar ancient Jewish hermeneutics, may help supply this need.<br />Origen is one of the most famous names in early Christian history, and this collection, though not fare for a casual Sunday afternoon, is the best available way for laymen to see a great mind at work in its most characteristic mode.	2001-01-28
US	52860511	R1KZ5L2O59X6SO	0879726075	880642234	Cricket for Americans: Playing and understanding the game (Sports and culture series)	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	His Enthusiasm Is Obvious, But Not Infectious	As one of this book's target audience, I can testify that it is a first-rate primer on the ancient game of cricket.  After reading it, I now know that bowling a maiden over is not salacious, how to distinguish a silly point from a frivolous argument and why it is disgraceful to make a duck.  While the Daily Telegraph's cricket columns are still not an easy read, they at least no longer resemble pages of Swahili.<br />Tom Melville, an Englishman transplanted to Wisconsin, is a proselytizer for his favorite sport.  In expounding its tenets, he is clear and concise, explaining the rules of the game, its inbred vocabulary, its organization in its strongholds (England, of course, but also India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Australia, New Zealand, the West Indies, South Africa - indeed, practically every former British possession outside of North America) and its history.  For the thoroughgoing student, he reprints the complete Laws of Cricket, as promulgated by the venerable Marylebone Cricket Club, and includes an extensive glossary.<br />What is lacking in this exposition is a vision of what makes cricket attractive to its devotees.  Mr. Melville proclaims his love of the game but fails to impart it.  He comes closest in a chapter describing the twists and turns of a one-day &quot;limited overs&quot; match, which conveys some feeling for the opposing strategies and shows how tension can mount as small gains and losses accumulate.  He does not, however, extend the picture to multi-day matches.  The out-of-place chapter on how to give cricket lessons to neophytes could profitably have been replaced by, say, an account of a test match.<br />Anyone who knows nothing about cricket and has a reason to learn should track down this volume.  No one else is likely to be interested.	2001-01-27
US	52860511	RTYUPVRGMZC6I	019285321X	518103448	Playing Politics: The Nightmare Continues	Books	3	5	5	N	Y	Not a Nightmare, But a Really Odd Dream	Mixing rules for about a dozen games, observations on parallels between game playing and real world politics, propaganda for the glories of Proportional Representation, and punk-leftist atmospherics, &quot;Playing Politics&quot; is a strange brew indeed.  Imagine a feverish reverie in which Sid Sackson, Al Gore and Hunter Thompson merge into a single figure, and you will have about the right idea.<br />The games hold the book together and are the only reason for buying it.  There are many better treatises on political behavior, and one who is so inclined can read Thompson without an intermediary.  There are also better collections of original games, but this one, though uneven, is not bad.  It is particularly noteworthy for filling the neglected niche for &quot;strategic&quot; (non-luck, non-Trivial Pursuit) party games.  (I can't think of a previous good example of that genre except for Sid Sackson's &quot;Haggle&quot;.)<br />Several of the rules sets smell of classroom exercises and would sink any party quickly, but others look like they could be fun with adequate preparation.  The most promising are &quot;Agenda&quot; (based on manipulating procedural rules to gain substantive ends; I &quot;play-tested&quot; a variant at a science fiction convention, and it went over quite well), &quot;Coalition Poker&quot; and &quot;Killer Darts&quot;.  &quot;Candidate&quot; is a possibility for a very casual evening, while a more serious crowd may like &quot;Elections&quot; and &quot;Coalitions&quot; (or their combined version, where winning requires skill at both winning office and getting the most out of it).  &quot;Coalition Soccer&quot; is an interesting concept but probably can't be played, if only due to the shortage of triangular fields.  Even the not-really-playable efforts do, however, feature interesting ideas and mechanics that others may be able to put to better use.<br />As for the didactic commentary that accompanies the games, readers who are thoroughly out of sympathy with Professor Laver's views can easily sequester and ignore it.  What they don't ignore may perplex them.  It is odd, for instance, that an author whose credits include a book on coalition government seems so puzzled by how coalitions work.  He notes that, in his game on the topic, partners tend to split the &quot;Trough&quot; more or less equally, because each, regardless of its relative quantitative power, is equally crucial to forming a majority.  Real coalitions don't work that way, and Professor Laver offers only a lame attempt to explain the discrepancy.  His fumbling undercuts his insistent and supercilious plugging for PR, of which coalitions are an inescapable corollary.  What would one think of a right-wing free marketeer who had trouble with the principles of supply and demand?<br />Notwithstanding its oddness, this book is a worthwhile purchase for ardent gamers, for hosts and hostesses whose ambitions rise above Charades, for closet Reiner Knizias, and, let us not forget, for those who believe that Proportional Representation is the one true path to salvation.mpathy with Professor Laver's views can easily sequester and ignore it.  What they don't ignore may perplex them.  It is odd, for instance, that an author whose credits include a book on coalition government seems so puzzled by how coalitions work.  He notes that, in his game on the topic, partners tend to split the &quot;Trough&quot; more or less equally, because each, regardless of its relative quantitative power, is equally crucial to forming a majority.  Real coalitions don't work that way, and Professor Laver offers only a lame attempt to explain the discrepancy.  His fumbling undercuts his insistent and supercilious plugging for PR, of which coalitions are an inescapable corollary.  What would one think of a right-wing free marketeer who had trouble with the principles of supply and demand?<br />Notwithstanding its oddness, this book is a worthwhile purchase for ardent gamers, for hosts and hostesses whose ambitions rise above Charades, for closet Reiner Knizias, and, let us not forget, for those who believe that Proportional Representation is the one true path to salvation.	2001-01-27
US	52860511	R2NTII2ZLZXOAZ	0140438246	752821139	Linda Tressel (Trollope, Penguin)	Books	3	10	10	N	N	An Overweighted Romance	Appearing anonymously as &quot;By the Author of Nina Balatka&quot;, &quot;Linda Tressel&quot; was the second and last installment in Anthony Trollope's attempt to establish an alternative literary persona that could deviate from the Trollopian staples (not that the deviation was very startling; maidens urged to marry men whom they don't love are not exactly an unknown subject to our author).<br />Like the earlier book, &quot;Linda&quot; takes place in a foreign city that the author had recently visited, in this case Nuremberg, and deals with the effect of religious bigotry on love and marriage.  This time, instead of violently opposing a union, the bigoted aunt is trying to promote one, and the heroine struggles to escape into either spinsterhood or the arms of a more acceptable lover than the middle-aged boor who has been picked out for her.<br />The personae of &quot;Linda Tressel&quot; - all odd ducks except for Linda herself - belong to comedy, and a work in that vein might have succeeded.  Trollope chose, however, to write a tale that becomes progressively grimmer, eventually toppling the lightweight characters.  The book was not a total failure.  It drew praise from Henry James (who guessed the author's identity from stylistic clues) and has both lively and pathetic moments.  On the whole, though, one does not, after putting it down, feel deep regret that the &quot;alternative Trollope&quot; had no further literary career.	2001-01-19
US	52860511	R3M1BLEUJQG4J9	0742624552	974092565	Nina Balatka: The Story of a Maiden of Prague (Collected Works of Anthony Trollope 2 volumes)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Trollope Abroad	&quot;Nina Balatka&quot; and its companion novel &quot;Linda Tressel&quot; represent the oddest experiment of Anthony Trollope's literary career.  Long established as a leading novelist, he published these two tales anonymously, wishing to see whether, starting without the support of his fame, he could create &quot;a second literary identity&quot;.  Reviews were favorable, but sales meager.  &quot;Another ten years of unpaid unflagging labor might have built up a second reputation,&quot; Trollope wrote in his autobiography, but &quot;I could not at once induce English readers to read what I gave to them, unless I gave it with my name.&quot;<br />So the trial was abandoned, leaving behind two Trollopian novels with an exotic flavor.  Both are set in foreign, non-English speaking lands, and, while both deal with romance and religion - themes certainly not foreign to the author - they do so in untypical ways.<br />&quot;Nina Balatka&quot; takes place in Prague, which Trollope had recently visited.  There a gloomy imperial court (of Ex-Emperor Ferdinand, who had abdicated the Austrian throne after the revolution of 1848) presided over an almost medieval city, where the Jewish population, though possessing some degree of civic rights, still lived in a ghetto, and an unenlightened Christianity was a powerful social force.<br />The story that Trollope sets here, of the family-crossed romance between a young Catholic woman and a somewhat older Jewish merchant, seems far less daring and unconventional now than it did in 1867.  The plot, too, is creaky, its mainspring a business about title deeds whose significance is obscure to the reader (and most likely to the author also).<br />Meticulous plotting and close fidelity to legal niceties are not, however, the virtues that one seeks in Trollope.  His strengths lie in the portrayal of manners, emotions and character.  In those respects, &quot;Nina Balatka&quot; is worthy of its author.  It is also a testament to the power of his imagination.  A single visit to Prague was scarcely sufficient to make him expert in the customs of the city's Catholics and Jews.  There are glaring improbabilities, chief among them that Anton, the eldest son of a wealthy father in a traditional Jewish community, should have reached his middle thirties as a bachelor.  Nevertheless, this largely fanciful society coheres in the reader's mind and seems almost as believable as Barsetshire or Gatherum Castle.<br />Readers of Trollope, after they have devoured his famous works, tend to become voracious.  This flawed but moving novel, though not a gourmet dish, will satisfactorily allay their appetites.	2001-01-19
US	52860511	R4PTL1M5CO0EP	0313312028	135791860	Shakespeare's Unorthodox Biography: New Evidence of an Authorship Problem (Contributions in Drama and Theatre Studies)	Books	1	37	97	N	N	A Correction	Diana Price has complained on her Web site that the last bullet point in my earlier review ignored her &quot;reference (p. 127, also listed in the index) to the possibility that Hand D in Sir Thomas More is that of Shakespeare&quot;.  Though my oversight was inadvertent, she is correct.  By way of atonement, I reproduce in its entirety what &quot;Shakespeare's Unorthodox Biography&quot; says about Sir Thomas More and Hand D:<br />&quot;The poor quality of Shakspere's penmanship is as suspicious as is the paucity of extant handwriting for a man who supposedly lived by the pen, and scholars continue to search for more specimens.  Some have pored over manuscript pages of the play Sir Thomas More, hoping to find Shakspere's handwriting in it.  Yet there remain only six inconsistent, blotchy signatures against which to make any comparisons.  At best, the six signatures support the conclusion that Shakspere could sign or at least scrawl his name, but they do not support the conclusion that he was a professional writer.&quot;<br />A reader will not learn here that scholars have assembled an impressive (though not uncontroverted) body of evidence in support of the identification of &quot;Hand D&quot; with that of William Shakespeare.  I'm sorry that I overlooked this passage, because it neatly illustrates my main point:  Time and again, Miss Price, instead of seeking to refute inconvenient analyses, pretends that they don't exist.  I noted a few examples in my review.  If Amazon allotted infinite space to reviewers, I could add more, as well as describe other departures from scholarly practice.  (One of my favorite instances:  George Chalmers, an eccentric defender of William Henry Ireland's Shakespearean forgeries, is cited as a sound &quot;orthodox&quot; authority (p. 93)!  Curiously, though Miss Price relies on him, she doesn't list his work in her bibliography.)<br />The anti-Stratfordians who have rallied around Miss Price's book should ponder whether gaining convertsthrough the tactic of suppressio veri is a good long-run strategy.  Their cause would be far better served by an author who was willing to confront, rather than shut her eyes to and sneer at, the other side of the case.	2001-01-19
US	52860511	RKTZB5R8U8DW5	0804726744	977201065	The First Punic War: A Military History	Books	4	35	40	N	N	Rome's First Great War	Polybius begins his history of Rome's rise to domination of the Mediterranean with the First Punic War (264-241 B.C.), and he was no doubt right about its significance.  For the first time, Roman forces ventured outside of Italy, fought at sea and invaded another continent.  By war's end, the City had added Sicily, Sardinia and Corsica to its sphere of influence and could no longer be ignored by other Mediterranean states.  It had also acquired a relentless enemy in defeated Carthage and, especially, the Carthaginian general Hamilcar Barca.  For two decades after peace was declared, the Barcids devoted their energies to building a new Punic dominion in Spain to support their dreams of revenge, dreams that were almost fulfilled by Hamilcar's son, Hannibal.<br />One would like to, but cannot, trace so important a conflict in at least moderate detail.  Polybius, our fullest source, merely summarizes events as a prelude to the Second Punic War, and his narrative is a blend of two lost authors of uncertain reliability, without the eyewitness evidence that undergirds the main portion of his work.  To fill the gaps in Polybius, all that survive are fragments, epitomes and the summaries of late compilers like the 5th Century Orosius and 12th Century Zonaras.<br />The patchiness of the sources is frustratingly apparent in the last period of the war.  In 249 Rome lost virtually its entire fleet to a battle and a storm, just at the moment when Carthage's  handful of remaining strongholds in Sicily seemed on the verge of collapse.  At that point fog descends.  We are told that Hamilcar Barca conducted a brilliant guerilla campaign for the next eight years.  Polybius calls him the best general on either side, and the Carthaginians awarded him their most important post-war commands.  But what he did to earn that reputation is a mystery.  Equally mysterious is the apparent passivity of both combatants.  Carthage devoted its military energies to subduing its African neighbors, making little effort to regain its Mediterranean position, while Rome waited seven years to construct another navy.  What was going on, and why?  We will never know.<br />Incidents are not all that the record lacks.  The institutional background is hazy; both cities changed between the first and second wars, but we do not know how or how much.  The statesmen and generals are little more than names.  Motives and strategies are largely guesswork.<br />At the most basic level, it is hardly possible to form a clear notion of how battles were fought.  Professor Lazenby remarks that &quot;we do not even know exactly what a quinquereme was&quot;.  He is too optimistic.  We do not even know _approximately_ what a quinquereme was, except that it was the principal warship on both sides and had a name derived from five somethings having to do with oars.  Obscure in a different way is the &quot;crow&quot;, a Roman invention that combined boarding bridge and grappling hook.  Polybius credits this &quot;wonder weapon&quot; with negating Carthaginian superiority in seamanship, enabling the inexperienced Roman navy to sweep all of its early battles.  Yet the device looks easy to counter; strong men with poles should have been able to fend it off while their vessel backed oars and slipped out of reach.  Moreover, the Romans, after supposedly using the crow successfully for 15 years, abruptly gave it up, and no one ever employed it again.<br />For undertaking what many would call an impossible feat of reconstruction, Professor Lazenby deserves kudos.  He assembles a lucid outline by sifting and comparing the ancient sources, laying out his reasoning in meticulous but rarely exhausting detail.  His operating assumption is that virtually all of the recorded facts go back to something that really occurred rather than just to imagination.  There are some limits to this principle.  He rejects out of hand the romantic story of the consul Regulus' self-sacrifice.  But he defends Polybius' enormous figures for the numbers of ships and men engaged at the Battle of Ecnomus (256 B.C.) and lost in the storm off Camarina (255 B.C.).  Many readers will probably be more skeptical, but at least they are given a fair accounting of the data.<br />The product of this effort is not vivid and exciting, but that is not the author's fault.  Only fiction could hope to bring the dry bones to life.  What can be faulted is the absence of good maps of the theater of war.  Roads, topography and ethnic allegiances of Sicilian towns would all be welcome, though they may have fallen victim to budget constraints.<br />The reader does not need to bring to this book any specialized background knowledge, but the specialist should not find it superficial.  More could probably not be said in twice the pages.  As the only modern English history of the First Punic War, it will be appreciated by those interested in either ancient military affairs or the development of the Roman Republic.	2001-01-05
US	52860511	R1VJRCN2JD4V28	067406626X	796028819	Ben Jonson: A Life (Garland Library of Medieval)	Books	4	32	35	N	N	Life (5 stars) and Lit Crit (zero)	Ben Jonson, Shakespeare's slightly younger contemporary, is the earliest English author who left behind enough evidence to make a literary biography possible.  Not that the evidence is, by modern standards, voluminous.  We do not know for certain when Jonson was born, who his father was or how long he went to school.  His relationships with patrons and fellow writers are obscure, and his conduct was sometimes so reckless as to defy rational explanation.  His determined efforts to fashion a persona only make his personality murkier.  On paper, he was both a champion of morality and a venturer into the near neighborhood of pornography.  In praxis, he seduced other men's wives while risking his own life and well-being as a religious dissident.<br />David Riggs' thorough biography emphasizes Jonson's contradictions.  Actually, it may find more contradictions than really exist.  The author appears to be a convinced disciple of modern critical theory, a searcher after ambiguity who frequently drowns text in subtext.  Foucault, Barthes, Fish and lesser lights of the deconstructionist priesthood receive proper marks of respect.  Happily, though, Riggs is not quite so dense as his inspirers; except when quoting them directly, his meaning can be more or less understood.<br />With the lit crit trappings (happily only a fraction of the whole work) stripped away, the tale of Jonson's rise from bricklayer's stepson to cultural arbiter is fascinating.  Though claiming descent from an official of Henry VIII's court, he grew up among the laboring classes and would doubtless have followed his stepfather into the bricklaying trade, had some unknown benefactor not enabled him to enroll at Winchester, one of the finest grammar schools of the day.  While Riggs finds no evidence that young Ben's education continued beyond the Fourth Form (his prodigious classical learning came from adult reading), it was sufficient, apparently, to instill a love of books and literature that led him, afterdetours into the army and acting, as well as some serious scrapes with the law, to become a professional writer for the stage.<br />Jonson's career spanned the full range of the literary world of his time.  In the beginning, he cadged advances from impresarios and earned so little that, after selling several plays, he returned for a while to his bricks.  At the height, he enjoyed the bounty of royal and noble patrons, who rewarded him well for masques and occasional poems.  At the end, though patrons grew fewer and his plays no longer appealed to the popular taste, he had the comfort of a circle of acolytes, the &quot;Sons of Ben&quot;, and unrivaled prestige.<br />On the ups and downs of this life, Riggs' detailed account is clear and authoritative.  On the other hand, his analysis of the plays and poems that make us interested in the life is more likely to puzzle than enlighten.  Fellow scholars will no doubt find useful nuggets, but the reader whose acquaintance with Jonson is perhaps limited to a long-ago perusal of &quot;Volpone&quot; or &quot;Everyman in His Humour&quot;, and who wishes to get a better idea of the nature of the author's works, will find little help.<br />There is also one noteworthy omission.  The first name that most readers will look for in Riggs' index is &quot;Shakespeare&quot;, and they will find almost nothing.  That gap stems from a praiseworthy reluctance to speculate beyond the evidence or to accept as evidence the dubious legends of later generations.  Still, the subject is one on which a slight boldness of inference would be welcome.<br />A successful literary biography, someone has said, recruits new readers for its subject.  This one does not pass that test, but, for anyone who is already interested in the second greatest dramatist of the Elizabethan Age, it will be quite satisfactory.	2000-12-16
US	52860511	RRXOFPWRVZYIP	0140438351	230034303	Harry Heathcote of Gangoil: A Tale of Australian Bush Life (Trollope, Penguin)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Ranch Lands Roasting in an Open Fire	Trollope wrote this very short novel (only about 45,000 words) for the Christmas issue of a London magazine.  Regarding Victorian sentimentality about the holiday as &quot;humbug&quot;, he presented a very different sort of Yuletide tale, one in which there are no snow flakes and no sleigh bells - and in which fires are not cozy but frightening.<br />The hero is a prosperous young sheep rancher in Queensland, where December is the hottest, driest month of the year, when a careless match can spark a ruinous blaze and in a few hours wipe out all that a man has built through years of labor.<br />Careless matches are not the only danger.  Harry has just as much fear of malicious ones.  He is an imperious ruler of his domain (120,000 acres leased from the Crown) and prides himself on his unflinching candor.  Not surprisingly, he is at feud with his shiftless, thieving neighbors, the Brownbie clan, and is quite willing to quarrel with Giles Medlicot, another neighbor, when Medlicot hires on a hand whom Harry has dismissed for insubordination and suspects of plotting arson.<br />In other Trollope novels, &quot;war to the knife&quot; means snubbing an enemy in the street or not inviting him to a garden party.  In this one, conflict is simpler and more violent.  With the grass growing more parched by the hour, Harry's enemies gather, scheme and strike.  Because Trollope is not a tragedian, they are thwarted - narrowly - and there is even a Christmas dinner to conclude the story and incidentally seal a budding romance.  But the pacing and atmosphere are very different from the Trollope that readers expect.<br />The picture of a frontier society, living almost in a Hobbesian &quot;state of nature&quot;, is vivid, and the moral consequences of that state are clearly drawn.  Harry's refusal to compromise with what he believes to be wrong is a principle that can be safely followed only where the structures of law and order offer shelter.  Where a man must be his own constable, high principle is a dangerous luxury.  The appearance of two colonial policemen at the end, as helpless to punish the malefactors as they were to forestall them, underlines the impotence of the law and perhaps reminded Trollope's audience of the excellence of their own social arrangements.<br />Alert members of that audience will perhaps have noticed that Queensland displays ironic inversions of English certitudes.  Most notably, Harry leases his land and _therefore_ considers himself socially much above Medlicot, who has purchased his.  In the home country, of course, a land owner who farmed his property (Medlicot is a sugar grower) would have looked severely down upon a man who kept livestock on rented pastures.<br />Unfortunately, despite its excellent qualities, &quot;Harry Heathcote&quot; suffers a defect that reduces it to the Trollopian second class (albeit that is no low place to be).  In so short a work, nothing should be wasted, and too many words are wasted here on a perfunctory romance, one of the least interesting that Trollope ever devised.  Medlicot's courtship of Harry's sister-in-law not only adds nothing to the narrative but is positively detrimental, as it gives the neighbor a self-interested motive for his decision to take Harry's side against the Brownbie conspiracy rather than maintain a &quot;fair-minded&quot; neutrality.<br />Anyone who has never read Trollope should not begin here, but the author's fans will not regret passing a few hours with him in the Australian bush.	2000-12-15
US	52860511	R3GZCAFP7VD6QD	0786706600	11660788	Napoleon III: A Life	Books	3	16	21	N	N	Lifestyles of the Rich and Imperial	If you are a celebrity hound, and regard Napoleon Bonaparte's mediocre nephew as a celebrity, this book is for you.  There is no slogging through politics, economics, diplomacy, ideology or other heavy matters.  Instead, the author is more interested in how Louis Napoleon made love to Lizzie Howard than why he made war on Austria and Prussia.<br />As a kind of paparazzo on paper, Bresler is quite able.  He can tell a good story well, and the first part of Louis' life - as the exiled prince contrives harebrained plots to overthrow the Bourbon monarchy, then stumbles into the presidency of the Second Republic - is a good story.  While the narrative relies chiefly on secondary sources, there is original research on points (all personal rather than political) that interest the author, such as the truth about Louis' paternity and the identities of his illegitimate children.  Also, the selection of illustrations is good, including both photographs and color reproductions of period paintings.<br />It is probably for the best that the book delves little into affairs of state, about which the author's ideas are generally sophomoric.  At one point, he tries to divine why Napoleon intervened in Italy in 1859.  He can think of only three possibilities:  the enticements of an Italian paramour, nostalgia for a youthful fling at anti-Austrian insurrection and fear of assassination by the carbonari.  The word &quot;geopolitics&quot; seems not to be part of his vocabulary.<br />Even for gapers at the rich and famous, interest must flag after Napoleon's ascension to power (which he cemented by staging a coup d'etat against his own government).  The conspiracies of his youth are exciting, the extravagances, illnesses and mistresses of his middle age less so.  He was, after all, a politician; leaving the politics out of his life is like writing a biography of Bill Clinton that features Monica Lewinsky but not Newt Gingrich.<br />The Franco-Prussian War brought the Second Empire to an abrupt end.  Captured at the disastrous Battle of Sedan, the Emperor abdicated and departed for England.  Bresler thinks that he was plotting a comeback in imitation of his uncle's return from Elba.  If any such plans existed, however, they never made much progress, and the tale bogs down in a too-graphic account of Louis' kidney stones.  Surgery to break them up led to a fatal infection, which the author blames on the &quot;arrogance and incompetence&quot; of English doctors, though his evidence scarcely justifies so severe a verdict.<br />Bresler insists that Napoleon &quot;le Petit&quot;, as Victor Hugo called him, is an underrated figure whom the French have unreasonably relegated to obscurity.  His own book suggests that the French are right, but the volume is worth a few hours' reading, so long as one does not demand too much in the way of substance.	2000-12-14
US	52860511	R2BD96CKSHRW3S	0313312028	135791860	Shakespeare's Unorthodox Biography: New Evidence of an Authorship Problem (Contributions in Drama and Theatre Studies)	Books	1	79	139	N	N	Deconstructing the Stratford Man	Despite the absence of the &quot;new evidence&quot; promised by its subtitle, this book can claim to apply a new method to the &quot;controversy&quot; over who wrote Shakespeare's works.  Diana Price uses the tools of modern literary theory to deconstruct contemporary references to Shakespeare.  On the surface, this evidence straightforwardly attributes the famous plays and poems to an actor from Stratford-on-Avon.  Miss Price will have none of that.  She searches for ambiguity and coded meanings, predictably finds them, and thus feels justified in substituting an implausible scenario, supported by no positive evidence at all, for Shakespeare's orthodox biography.<br />Her thesis, in brief, is that William &quot;Shakspere&quot; of Stratford was an actor, theatrical investor and moneylender - but not a writer.  Among his activities were arranging the printing of, and taking credit for, other men's plays.  One of his victims was an anonymous nobleman, a supplier of scripts to the acting company with which Shakspere was associated.  This author - just by coincidence - had adopted &quot;William Shakespeare&quot; as a pen name for his published poems, &quot;Venus and Adonis&quot; and &quot;The Rape of Lucrece&quot;.  When his pseudonym's namesake expropriated his works, he could not complain, because identification as a writer for the popular stage would have led to social stigmatization.  The literary world was conscious of the imposture, however, and Miss Price finds the truth hidden in many a coded epigram, including the dedicatory poems to the First Folio.<br />Like many creators of alternative Shakespeares, Miss Price seems to bear a grudge against the claimant from Stratford.  Her account of his career is jaundiced to a high degree, and she sees him as the figure behind practically every Elizabethan lampoon of braggart actors, plagiarizing poets or unscrupulous impresarios.  &quot;Facts&quot; collected from such caricatures form much of the basis of her reconstruction of &quot;Shakspere's&quot; life, though the probability that they actually allude to him is generally small.  For example, she is confident that the buffoon Sogliardo in Ben Jonson's &quot;Every Man Out of His Humour&quot; is a hit on Shakspere.  She does not note that the play was written for the Lord Chamberlain's Men, of which the Stratford man was a principal shareholder.  One somehow doubts that Shakspere was so tolerant as to finance a parody of himself.<br />To animus is joined partial scholarship.  The author has read extensively but declines to confront evidence or analysis inconsistent with her views.  To take a few instances:<br />* The &quot;stigma of print&quot; is vital to her case, as it furnishes her sole explanation of why not only the noble author, but also every other contemporary, failed to unmask &quot;Shakspere&quot; as a fraud.  In fact, this stigma was supposedly so powerful that the editors of the First Folio kept up the pretense after both Shakspere and the real playwright (who, Miss Price believes, died before 1609) were gone from the world.<br />But was there any such stigma?  Steven May, the leading authority on the literary works of Tudor courtiers, lambasted the theory in &quot;Tudor Aristocrats and the Mythical `Stigma of Print'&quot; (Renaissance Papers, 1980).  Miss Price takes no notice of this article.  Conceivably she overlooked it, but her bibliography does list Professor May's book &quot;The Elizabethan Courtier Poets&quot;, which contains ample evidence that aristocrats of the era had no qualms about seeing their literary works, including their plays, in print under their own names.<br />* Miss Price thinks that the real Shakespeare was dead by 1609, because the publisher's dedication to the Sonnets refers to &quot;our ever-living poet&quot;.  She cites Don Foster's article, &quot;Master W.H., R.I.P.&quot;, to prove that the adjective &quot;ever-living&quot; was not customarily applied to people who were still alive.  Shedoes _not_ cite the article's conclusion:  that &quot;ever-living&quot; is applied most frequently to God, the &quot;ever-living poet&quot; Who is asked to bless the (living) sonneteer.<br />* Miss Price derides the notion that Shakespeare could have acquired classical and literary knowledge through private reading.  Yet Ben Jonson did precisely that.  Jonson's works are vastly more erudite than Shakespeare's, but his formal education did not go beyond a few years of grammar school.  Moreover, Jonson pursued his independent studies in the face of dire poverty, whereas Shakespeare of Stratford appears always to have been at least modestly affluent (besides which, a family friend was one of London's most important booksellers).  The facts about Jonson's self-education are set forth in a book cited several times by Miss Price in other contexts (David Riggs, &quot;Ben Jonson: A Life&quot;, pp. 57-58).<br />* To buttress her contention that Shakespeare left no &quot;literary paper trail&quot;, Miss Price states flatly that no manuscripts in his hand survive.  As a student of Elizabethan literature, she is surely aware of the famous &quot;Sir Thomas More&quot; manuscript, a portion of which is widely believed to be Shakespeare's autograph.  That belief may, of course, be mistaken, but it should be refuted with arguments rather than silence.<br />Any reader who is impressed by Miss Price's facade of scholarship should bear omissions like these in mind.  Consciously or not, she has fashioned a brief for a preconceived opinion, not a fair-minded evaluation of facts and circumstances.  She is less incoherent than Charlton Ogburn, Jr., and less bizarrely speculative (but also less entertaining) than Joseph Sobran, but her case against the Stratford man, like theirs, amounts to nothing more substantial than bile and overheated air.	2000-11-30
US	52860511	R3MJJCM27NPII6	1889818054	953722679	The Elizabethan Courtier Poets: Their Poems and Their Contexts	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Poets of the Queen	In popular imagination, Queen Elizabeth's court was a highly literary venue, where any nobleman might at any time have a sonnet up his sleeve and the pen was as potent a weapon as the sword.<br />Professor May explores the more complex truth in this study of the poetic and dramatic works of the upper crust of Elizabethan society.  He limits his purview to the men and women properly called &quot;courtiers&quot;, those who had access to the Queen's privy chamber and might rightly consider themselves her intimates, if not her friends.  These aristocrats moved in a world far above that of court hangers-on like Edmund Spenser and John Lyly, not to mention the run of out-of-court Shakespeares, Marlowes, Marstons, Draytons, Chapmans, Jonsons and the like, who glimpsed the great ones only when and if specially summoned to perform a play or provide the text of a masque.<br />The book comprises two parts:  a narrative account of courtier literary development and an anthology of over 90 courtier poems, most of them not readily accessible anywhere else.<br />The narrative begins in the last days of Henry VIII, when verse, unless in Latin and devoted to suitably serious subjects, lay under a cloud.  Elizabeth's private attitude was more tolerant - she liked poetry and had begun writing it before her accession - but condemnation of frivolous versifying continued to be dominant during the first two decades of her reign.<br />Professor May credits two young writers of the 1570's, the Earl of Oxford and Sir Edward Dyer, with introducing English, secular, amatory verse to the court.  Neither was a great poet.  Their works retain the sing-song meters, intrusive alliteration and commonplace sensibility of &quot;Drab Age&quot; poetics.  They did, however, show the way for more talented and original figures.  While the number of courtier poets was never large, their ranks included two major lights of English literature, Sir John Harington and Sir Philip Sidney, and others - Raleigh, Greville, Robert Sidney, Essex, the Queen herself, etc. - whose output is worthy of survival.<br />&quot;Elizabethan Courtier Poets&quot; surveys the principal poetic works of the courtier group, the motives for their composition (with special attention to the role of verse in the competition for the Queen's favor) and the ways in which courtly litterateurs influenced or failed to influence both one another and out-of-court poets.  The analysis is more historical and biographical than literary and is happily untouched by modern critical theory.<br />The second part of the book, the anthology, lists every person who meets Professor May's criteria for classification as a &quot;courtier poet&quot; and summarizes the supporting data.  The pertinent facts - on the order of who exchanged New Year's presents with the Queen in what years - are often far from fascinating, but there is interesting incidental information.  How many of the &quot;Oxford was Shakespeare&quot; partisans who laud the Earl's educational attainments are aware that his degrees from Oxford and Cambridge were strictly honorary, two among the dozens handed out to royal attendants when Elizabeth visited those institutions?<br />The poems included in the anthology are not intended to be either the best examples of courtier verse or a cross-section of the whole.  Professor May has instead concentrated on furnishing reliable texts of works that are otherwise hard to find.  Some are poetically very slight, such as the inscription that Lord Burghley wrote to accompany the gift of a spinning wheel to his daughter.  Others display unexpected merit.  The Earl of Essex, in particular, writing under sentence of death, is powerful and eloquent.  `Tis pity, one thinks, that he did not forsake politics for poetry.<br />For any serious student of Elizabethan literary life, this book is an essential text.  Those whose interest is real but more casual will also find it rewarding for its insights into an important segment ofthe greatest era of English poetry.	2000-11-24
US	52860511	R2UU2H5AO5T4KC	0582493722	376927571	The Merovingian Kingdoms 450 - 751	Books	4	75	76	N	N	A Tangle of Kings	The centuries immediately following the collapse of Roman rule in what is now France are an extraordinarily tangled time that is frequently dismissed as no more than a chaotic prelude to Charlemagne and the Carolingian Dynasty.  Ian Wood's aim is to demonstrate that there was more to Merovingian France than fratricidal kinglets, murderous queens, corrupt bishops and otherworldly monastic saints.  While he does not make the era completely comprehensible and demands close attention from the reader, his effort is enlightening and informative.<br />Chronologically the work ranges from the establishment of &quot;barbarian&quot; rule in Gaul to the deposition of the last, powerless &quot;long-haired king&quot; of France.  The family that gave its name to the period, supposedly descended from a sea monster's son named Merovech, came into prominence under Clovis, under whose leadership the Franks gained a dominant position in Gaul during the last years of the Fifth Century.<br />Upon his death Clovis divided the Frankish domain among his sons, setting a pattern that was to bedevil Merovingian history.  Though occasionally brought together by a strong or lucky monarch, the realm thereafter was typically divided into two, three or four parts, among which the normal relationship was a state of suspicious peace or outright war.  Wood does not regard these divisions as quite so debilitating as contemporaries thought.  He goes so far as to put forward the paradox that civil war was one of the institutions that held France together!  He also contends that such turmoil did not prevent the Merovingians from playing a major, albeit underrated, role in Great Power politics.<br />Eventually, the kings lost their political authority to officials known vaguely as &quot;maiores palatii&quot; (&quot;great men of the palace&quot;).  The changeover began in the 660's and accelerated rapidly in the following century.  It is a puzzling development, and the most serious gap in Wood's analysis is his failure to probe why it occurred, notwithstanding detailed attention to the careers of such famous maiores as Grimoald, Ebroin, Pippin and Charles Martel.<br />The author approaches this complex history through an ingenious combination of narration and description.  His method is to take up each major topic at the chronological point where it is best documented or had the greatest historical impact.  For instance, the lifetime of the bishop-historian Gregory of Tours is the occasion for discussion of the organization of the Frankish church, while the progress of monasticism comes a few chapters later, anchored on the life and work of St. Columbanus.  Still later, St. Boniface is the hook for an account of mission work among the pagan peoples east of the Rhine.  The arrangement is not perfect, but it gives a less static picture than a purely topical presentation and relieves the reader of some of the work of synthesizing facts scattered across time.<br />The author assumes that his audience possesses a moderate prior acquaintance with early French history.  For instance, he takes for granted knowledge of why it was significant the Clovis became a Catholic rather than an Arian, and he mentions (in passing) where Austrasia and Neustria were located long after his first use of those geopolitical terms.  Nor can he be accused of squeezing excessive drama from his material.  A crisis like the murder of Childeric II, along with his queen and a couple of high-ranking churchmen (675), is handled as drily as the will of the wealthy Bishop Bertram of Le Mans (d. 613).  A novice may well find himself bewildered and bored.  On the other hand, expertise is not necessary, only a reasonable quantity of background data.<br />For the interested, attentive and patient student, &quot;The Merovingian Kingdoms&quot; does an excellent job of piecing together fragmentary sources into a usable picture of an important, but often neglected, region during the transition from Late Antiquity to the Middle Ages.	2000-11-20
US	52860511	R1VADSCW2CIYGR	0915368714	470098866	White Papers	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The White Stuff	To mark James White's appearance as Author Guest of Honor at the 1996 World Science Fiction Convention, NESFA Press published this collection of  nine of his novelettes and an equal number of his fanzine contributions  (mostly from Walt Willis's legendary &quot;Hyphen&quot;).  The balance is  fitting and proper, for White was equally eminent as a &quot;vile pro&quot;  (his term) and a dedicated fan - one of the few successful authors who  sprang from, but never very far away from, the fannish milieu.<br />Though  never ranking with a Heinlein or Asimov or Niven in popular acclaim, White  compiled an impressive body of work.  Best known was his &quot;Sector  General&quot; series, set in an interstellar hospital whose multi-species  physicians found their ingenuity challenged by the strange ailments of some  of the weirdest patients ever imagined.  THE WHITE PAPERS includes four  Sector General stories, plus the author's account of the origin and  development of the series as a whole.  The problems presented range from  caring for a half-ton alien infant who has to be sprayed with food every  four hours to treating a shape-changing amoeboid's catatonia to preventing  a young human doctor from falling in love with his crustacean counterpart.   All cleverly turn the superficially bizarre into narratives that are  sometimes funny and often moving.<br />The non-Sector General stories likewise  maintain a high standard.  The gems are &quot;Custom Fitting&quot;, which  addresses the question of where the centaur-like first ambassador from the  Galactic Federation is to find suitable garments for his audience at the  Court of St. James, and &quot;Christmas Treason&quot;, in which a gang of  telekinetic toddlers tracks down Santa Claus.  One story, &quot;House  Sitter&quot;, appears here for the first time.  We are not told when it was  written, but elements of the theme would not have been welcome in most  science fiction outlets until very recently.  The other two stories are  &quot;Commuter&quot;, a clever time travel yarn whose only weakness is an  unsurprising surprise ending, and &quot;Sanctuary&quot;, where Irish nuns  protect an alien explorer from the attentions of a 60 Minutes style  &quot;attack television&quot; program.<br />In general, it should be noted,  White is a somewhat &quot;old-fashioned&quot; (that is, Campbellian)  writer.  Faster-than-light travel, instantaneous communications,  anti-gravity devices and even &quot;stasis boxes&quot; (long before Larry  Niven exploited the concept) are taken for granted.  The plotting is  careful, and the characterization vigorous, if not always subtle.  The are  no experimental literary techniques, no sexual banter, no casual  obscenities and nothing suggestive of drugs, New Age-ism or cyberpunk.   Readers immersed in the latest SF trends may find this mix a bit  stodgy.<br />The fan writings that make up the second part of the book  represent a good sampling of one of the great times and places of amateur  science fiction enthusiasm:  the Irish Fandom (&quot;IF&quot;) created by  Walt Willis, Bob Shaw, George Charters, John Berry, Chuch Harris, White  himself and others.  IF flourished in a less than salubrious clime, the  tension-wracked Northern Ireland of the 1950's and later.  The contrast  between IF's wacky, good-natured, effervescent worlds and the stark reality  round about is captured in the nostalgic nonfactual essay, &quot;The  Exorcists of IF&quot;.  White's own role in cultivating this garden of  sanity and cross-tribal friendship (he was a Roman Catholic; most of the  rest of IF were Protestants) is portrayed in a memoir, &quot;Fester on the  Fringe&quot;.<br />Other pieces fall into distinctive fannish genres:  the  &quot;trip report&quot; (&quot;The Beacon, or Through Darkest Ireland  Carrying a Torch for Bea Mahaffey&quot;), the &quot;con report&quot;  (&quot;The Long Afternoon of Harrogate&quot; and &quot;The Quinze-y  Report&quot;, the latter title being a Walt Willis pun that requires a  quarter-page explanation), the fannish history (&quot;A History of IF,  Chapter 3&quot;) and the unserious personal invective against pretended  enemies (&quot;The Last Time I Saw Harris&quot; and &quot;The Not-So-Hot  Gospeller&quot;).  Whatever the nominal topic, all of these sketches are  light-hearted, pun-filled and witty.  The nonfan may stumble over an  occasional obscure reference (to, e. g., Roscoe or the sawing of Courtney's  boat), but the argot is not so thick as to be unintelligible, and the  meanings of the most frequently used terms, such as &quot;egoboo&quot; and  &quot;BNF&quot;, soon become clear from the context.<br />Rounding out the  volume are a Sector General timeline and catalogue of alien species, both  prepared by the late Gary Louie, a talented and deeply missed Los Angeles  fan.<br />James White died not long ago, and his fiction is becoming hard to  find.  His fan writings were always ephemera, of course.  Happily, NESFA  Press keeps its backlist in print, giving another generation the  opportunity to sample the writings of one of the field's stars.	2000-08-03
US	52860511	R26LRZGI4LOVN3	1585670111	840921070	Ataturk	Books	4	108	119	N	Y	Father Turk's Story	When the Turkish Republic made it mandatory for all citizens to adopt surnames, its president Mustapha Kemal selected &quot;Ataturk&quot; - &quot;Father Turk&quot; - as uniquely his own.  (His sister and other  relatives were not allowed to use it.)  The sobriquet embodied Kemal's  image of himself, which was shared by many other Turks then and  thereafter.<br />This hefty biography, written by a veteran and sympathetic  observer of the Turkish scene, is more detailed and less fawning than Lord  Kinross's 1964 tome, previously the best-known English life of Kemal.  It  is based on an extensive array of printed Turkish sources, synthesizing  what a diligent modern Turk would know about Kemal if he read everything  that is readily available.  On the other hand, the absence of archival  research leaves many evidentiary conflicts unresolved and gives the  accounts of controversial episodes a &quot;he said, she said&quot;  flavor.<br />The focus is very closely, perhaps too closely, on Kemal himself.   We are presented not only with the dramatic incidents of his exciting  career (conspiracies, coups, wars, assassinations) and disorderly private  life (womanizing, alcoholism, corrupt cronies, broken friendships,  suspicions of foul play) but also with itineraries of his travels and  summaries of numerous unmemorable speeches.  The decrees of  &quot;Kemalism&quot; - abolishing the Caliphate and the shariat,  secularizing education, reforming the Turkish language, adopting the  Christian calendar, granting equality to women, compelling men to wear  European-style hats - issue forth from Ankara, but we barely glimpse how  they were received in the country at large or how much fundamental change  they truly wrought.  Recent history makes it obvious that Kemal's project  of detaching Turkey from the Islamic world and annexing it to his vision of  Western civilization did not win unanimous support.  Mango offers little  help in understanding the reasons for acceptance or rejection.  He also  says virtually nothing about economic developments.  The absence of  statistics on production, incomes and trade is refreshing but leaves out  important data that would place political developments in clearer  context.<br />The author's decision to limit his perspective is forgivable.  &quot;Father Turk&quot; is a large enough subject without devoting a lot of  pages to his &quot;children&quot;.  Within its confines, the book is  clearly written and comprehensive, though there is a certain trailing off  near the end of Kemal's life, as he took less part in day-to-day governing  and acted more like a king than a dictator.  That, too, was the period when  he became engrossed in eccentric historical and linguistic theories (not  without parallel elsewhere in the 1930's) aimed at proving that every  nation that lived or ever had lived in Anatolia was &quot;Turkish&quot;  (especially the Kurds, though not, naturally, the Armenians or Greeks).   Mango mentions these follies but clearly wishes that he didn't have  to.<br />The book's overall evaluation of its protagonist is positive but not  uncritical.  Readers with strong partisan predispositions, whether pro or  con, will find passages that will annoy or anger them.  Kemal's admirers  will question the generally favorable view of the Ottoman regime (termed  &quot;an inefficient and accommodating despotism&quot; that was moving  steadily toward modernity) and the emphasis on the early Republic's brutal  and dictatorial ways.  Critics will complain that the picture of modern  Turkey is sugar-coated, that the sufferings of Greeks, Armenians and Kurds  are downplayed and that the destructive side of Kemal's &quot;cultural  revolution&quot; is ignored.<br />So this is not the &quot;ideal&quot;  biography of Turkey's founder.  It is, nonetheless, an excellent one and is  worth the time of anyone who has more than a passing interest in the  largest and most powerful nation in the Middle East.	2000-06-03
US	52860511	R2FQLGZA15IM18	0195114450	66938880	After the New Testament: A Reader in Early Christianity (Justice)	Books	4	98	100	N	Y	First Steps in Christian Beginnings	Though the Church in the Second and Third Centuries is a &quot;Dark Age&quot; in the minds of most Christians, the darkness is not due to lack of data.  The 19th Century series &quot;The Ante-Nicene Fathers&quot; runs  to 5,000-some large pages in small type - and it was not complete even in  its own day.  Subsequent discoveries, most notably the Nag Hammadi library  of Gnostic-Christian literature, have added much to our knowledge or,  oftentimes, to our perplexity.<br />Professor Ehrman's selection of readings  gives an overview of this vast forest.  He has selected 76 works, mostly  self-contained excerpts, though a few are complete.  In addition to  familiar items that cannot be omitted from such a collection (e. g., the  Epistle to Diognetos, large parts of the Epistles of St. Ignatios, and  selections from Justin Martyr, Tertullian and Origen), we are given much  that later generations found heretical, dubious or silly:  apocryphal  Scriptures, esoteric Gnostic speculation and writings by Christians who  refused to recognize any separation between their faith and Judaism.  The  texts are arranged thematically (e. g., &quot;The Attack on Christianity:  Persecution and Martyrdom in the Early Church&quot;, &quot;Anti-Judaic  Polemic&quot;, &quot;The Development of the Liturgy&quot;) in such a way  that neighboring pieces illuminate one another.<br />The translations have all  appeared in print before, and the editor deserves credit for choosing  clear, readable versions.  His introductions, while well-suited to the  intended audience, are open to criticism.  On the positive side, they are  judicious and nonpartisan, avoiding (except on the topic of the ministry of  women in the early Church, where no mainstream modernist can afford to be  completely candid) speculation beyond the evidence.  On the negative, they  are so judicious that the untutored reader is left unaware of controversies  that have a major impact on the meaning of the texts.  To take a  significant instance, Prof. Ehrman blandly states that &quot;most  scholars&quot; date the manual of Church discipline known as the  &quot;Didache&quot; to c. 100 A.D.  True enough, but some date it much  earlier and some much later, and its value as evidence depends crucially on  the time and place from which it came.<br />All in all, for anyone who would  like to know more about pre-Nicene Church history, this volume is, if not  the last word, a useful and interesting preface.	2000-05-29
US	52860511	R2951JZLN1S1IT	0807119679	198210265	More Generals in Gray	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Fascinating Particulars About Nondescript Generals	A tome devoted to biographical sketches of 137 men united only by their arguable status as Confederate generals sounds like one of the ultimate Civil War &quot;buff books&quot;.  It is a pleasant surprise to open its pages and discover no dreary catalogue of minutiae.  Instead, the author  has condensed years of research into a series of sparkling capsule lives  that reflect the wide range of characters and events in America's bitterest  conflict.<br />Each of the subjects has some claim to having held the rank of  general in the Confederate military but not enough of one to have earned  listing in Ezra J. Warner's authoritative &quot;Generals in Gray&quot;.   However solid or dubious their entitlement to the highest rank, however,  they form a cross-section of important and interesting Southern officers  and citizens.  They came from a variety of backgrounds.  Ten were born in  the North, nine in Border States, nine abroad (including one veteran of  Napoleon's Grande Armee, whose unit's performance in the defense of New  Orleans fell short of Napoleonic standards).  Not all had embraced  independence eagerly.  Michael Jefferson Bulger, for instance, voted  &quot;no&quot; in the Alabama secession convention but nonetheless enlisted  in the 47th Alabama Regiment.  At Cedar Mountain, he suffered wounds to his  arm and leg, binding the latter with corncobs and suspenders.  At  Gettysburg, he was captured after being left for dead.  Following such  mishaps, he ended up living to age 94, enjoying a placid post-war career as  a farmer and occasional politician.<br />In contrast to the indestructible  Bulger, Edward Gantt was a fire-eating secessionist who resigned his seat  in the first Confederate Congress to raise a regiment in Arkansas.  After  being captured with the garrison of Island No. 10, he returned home on  parole but then experienced an astonishing change of heart.  In late 1863,  the formerly rabid states-righter slipped across the Yankee lines and spent  therest of the war urging his former countrymen to lay down their  arms.<br />Many more such tales are told here.  The author has a keen eye for  incisive facts and quotations, and his writing wastes few words.  For the  serious student of the Civil War, this work is a valuable reference.  For  everyone else, it offers hours of fascinating browsing.	2000-05-03
US	52860511	R20R4Y34CV0504	1558821198	696102832	The Uncollected Wodehouse	Books	4	13	13	N	N	No Bottom to This Barrel	When the wary reader encounters &quot;The Uncollected So-and-So&quot;, he is wise to keep a tight grip on his billfold.  He may suspect that what has gone uncollected may have been left lying about for good reason and perhaps  should have been placed in the hands of a &quot;collector&quot; of a kind  other than literary.<br />Happily, P. G. Wodehouse inspires no such fears.   One might say that, while some Wodehouse is better than others, none is  worse.  Though falling largely into the second class, the pieces in this  modest volume lack nothing of the familiar Plumsian delight.<br />The  historically minded will find the very first writing for which Plum  received pay (&quot;Some Aspects of Game-Captaincy&quot;, in which the  terms &quot;blot&quot; and &quot;excrescence&quot; are coupled in the way  that would someday rolling trippingly off the tongues of Bertie Wooster's  aunts), his first appearance in Punch (&quot;An Unfinished  Collection&quot;, the prelude to many a future collecting mania), his first  published short story (&quot;When Papa Swore in Hindustani&quot;, where,  not for the last time, a recalcitrant father learns the hidden virtues of  his daughter's beau) and his first butler story (&quot;The Good  Angel&quot;, whose Keggs misplaces his h's and lacks Jeeves' nobility of  spirit but nonetheless applies a keen understanding of the psychology of  the individual to reunite young hearts separated by an interloping  poet).<br />There are, in all, fourteen stories, none likely to be familiar to  even the most assiduous Wodehousian, and fifteen occasional items from  newspapers, including a couple of poems.  The non-stories  (&quot;nonfiction&quot; would be distinctly not le mot juste) are very  slight (averaging only two pages each), and some depend on topical  references for their humor.  They are best enjoyed as bon-bons between the  more substantial fare.<br />Wodehouse unfortunately stopped writing a few  years ago.  Editors must now fish into thebarrel for new entertainments.   It is our good fortune that this particular barrel has no bottom.	2000-05-02
US	52860511	RBGBB2MJC70FT	088358204X	53023361	The science-fantasy publishers: A critical and bibliographic history	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Indispensable to the Science Fiction Bibliophile	Much significant science fiction and fantasy writing was published for the first (and often the only) time by specialty presses that printed only a few hundred copies and distributed them almost nowhere.  This massive  reference work, compiled by writer Jack Chalker and bookseller Mark Owings,  tries to rescue such publications from bibliographic oblivion.<br />The  listings include 2,500 or so books under more than 200 different imprints.   The editors' objective was to cover every non-mass market publisher, active  or defunct, since 1923 that devoted itself exclusively to SF and fantasy,  produced at least one hardcover book and offered works by authors other  than the owner.  Added to these are numerous books within the field from  companies with a substantial non-SF orientation.  Coverage includes all  English-speaking countries, plus a few English language books produced  elsewhere and a handful of French and German titles.<br />Entries contain the  standard bibliographic data, detailed tables of contents and pithy  editorial notes.  Of considerable interest are narrative histories of each  publisher, ranging in length from a few paragraphs to several pages.  The  best of these read almost like case studies in how to succeed or fail in  the small press business.<br />The authors are men of strong opinions, which  they are not reticent about stating.  Perhaps as a consequence, the book  received a number of scathing reviews, ostensibly condemning errors in the  text.  There certainly are factual mistakes, which the editors have  diligently worked to correct in the supplements to the original volume, but  they are startlingly few in relation to the bulk of the work.  As for the  opinions, they are tactless in spots but lively and well-informed.<br />No SF  bibliophile with spare cash in his pocket will want to be without this  volume.  In hopes of facilitating its acquisition, let me end with its own  publishing information:<br />&quot;The Science-Fantasy Publishers&quot;  appeared under the imprint of Mirage Press Ltd. of Westminster, Maryland  (Chalker's personal operation; not to be confused with a similarly named  outfit in California), copyright 1991, ISBN 0-88358-204-X.  It is labeled  &quot;Third Edition&quot;.  The first two &quot;editions&quot;, however,  were published 25 years earlier (under the title &quot;The Index to the  Science-Fantasy Publishers&quot;); copies of those versions, if one could  find them, would have only curiosity value.<br />The editors have issued at  least five supplements at roughly annual intervals.  (The last that I know  about is dated 1997.)  In 1998, they produced an &quot;Edition 3.5&quot; on  CD-Rom, incorporating all corrections and supplementary material to that  time.	2000-04-28
US	52860511	R2NHJ8204Y5JU1	0300060629	425363724	Carausius and Allectus: The British Usurpers	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Imperial Shadows	The political history of Roman Britain is not well-documented, and among its more shadowy reaches is the ten-year period (286-296 A.D.) during which the island formed an effectively independent realm under the &quot;emperors&quot; Carausius and Allectus.  The literary evidence for these figures is windy and exiguous, but they left behind large numbers of coins of many different types.  P. J. Casey, an archeologist and numismatist, believing that coinage, properly interpreted, can make significant contributions to the historical record, has taken up the challenge of reconstructing the skeleton, if not the torso, of the Carausian regime.<br />The greatest part of the book is not a true narrative (which would take up only a few pages) but rather an analysis of raw data from speeches, chronicles, coins and excavations.  The presentation is admirably lucid, but readers who are easily bored by tables of the distribution of mint marks may lose the thread.<br />Casey's efforts produce a convincing outline, tracing events from the rebellion of Carausius (a naval commander, assigned to chase pirates on the Gallic coast, who was accused of snatching their booty for his own purse) through his establishment of control over Britain, his loss and recapture of possessions on the continent, his overthrow by his treasurer Allectus and the latter's defeat by the Caesar Constantius (father of Constantine the Great) or, to be precise, by one of the latter's subordinates, who of course received no official credit.  Unfortunately, the outline cannot be fleshed out with much detail.  Even major incidents, such as the failure of the Roman authorities' first attempt at reconquest, are known only by inference.  Through a dim haze we glimpse the clash of armies and fleets in what must have been &quot;interesting times&quot;, but we can barely see who is fighting and cannot at all say why.<br />Appended to the main body of the work are excurses on three more or less related topics: Roman navalwarfare (about which not much can be said), the mysterious &quot;Carausius&quot; coinage that appeared in the 350's (which some historians, though not Casey, attribute to an otherwise unknown &quot;Carausius II&quot;) and - the most entertaining portion of the book - the legends that grew up around Carausius' name in the Middle Ages.  Perpetuated and elaborated well into the 1700's, this pseudo-history transformed the Roman rebel into an Irishman, a Welshman, a Dutchman, a peacemaker between Picts and Scots, a savage invader of Scotland, the ancestor of a noble Venetian family and a founding father of the English navy.<br />Obscure though its subject may be, this is a well-crafted work, worth the attention of any serious afficionado of Roman imperial history.	2000-04-28
US	52860511	R2OIQ58WJG2SMW	088358204X	53023361	The science-fantasy publishers: A critical and bibliographic history	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Indispensable to the Science Fiction Bibliophile	Much significant science fiction and fantasy writing was published for the first (and often the only) time by specialty presses that printed only a few hundred copies and distributed them almost nowhere.  This massive  reference work, compiled by writer Jack Chalker and bookseller Mark Owings,  tries to rescue such publications from bibliographic oblivion.<br />The  listings include 2,500 or so books under more than 200 different imprints.   The editors' objective was to cover every non-mass market publisher, active  or defunct, since 1923 that devoted itself exclusively to SF and fantasy,  produced at least one hardcover book and offered works by authors other  than the owner.  Added to these are numerous books within the field from  companies with a substantial non-SF orientation.  Coverage includes all  English-speaking countries, plus a few English language books produced  elsewhere and a handful of French and German titles.<br />Entries contain the  standard bibliographic data, detailed tables of contents and pithy  editorial notes.  Of considerable interest are narrative histories of each  publisher, ranging in length from a few paragraphs to several pages.  The  best of these read almost like case studies in how to succeed or fail in  the small press business.<br />The authors are men of strong opinions, which  they are not reticent about stating.  Perhaps as a consequence, the book  received a number of scathing reviews, ostensibly condemning errors in the  text.  There certainly are factual mistakes, which the editors have  diligently worked to correct in the supplements to the original volume, but  they are startlingly few in relation to the bulk of the work.  As for the  opinions, they are tactless in spots but lively and well-informed.<br />No SF  bibliophile with spare cash in his pocket will want to be without this  volume.  In hopes of facilitating its acquisition, let me end with its own  publishing information:<br />&quot;The Science-Fantasy Publishers&quot;  appeared under the imprint of Mirage Press Ltd. of Westminster, Maryland  (Chalker's personal operation; not to be confused with a similarly named  outfit in California), copyright 1991, ISBN 0-88358-204-X.  It is labeled  &quot;Third Edition&quot;.  The first two &quot;editions&quot;, however,  were published 25 years earlier (under the title &quot;The Index to the  Science-Fantasy Publishers&quot;); copies of those versions, if one could  find them, would have only curiosity value.<br />The editors have issued at  least five supplements at roughly annual intervals.  (The last that I know  about is dated 1997.)  In 1998, they produced an &quot;Edition 3.5&quot; on  CD-Rom, incorporating all corrections and supplementary material to that  time.	2000-04-28
US	52860511	R333DJMVTFIGPA	0520043065	753366425	Collected Ancient Greek Novels	Books	4	58	59	N	N	The Remnants of a Genre	Prose fiction is the segment of Greek literature that has left the faintest impression on later ages, as is demonstrated by the fact that virtually all of its remnants fit within this thick but not unwieldy volume.  The contents include nine complete tales, most of which we would  call novellas, plus epitomes or fragments of ten more.  None of them is  famous today, though Lucian's &quot;True Romance&quot; is often cited as a  precursor to science fiction and Heliodoros' &quot;Ethiopian Story&quot;  was widely read through the 18th century.<br />The core of the book consists  of five &quot;novels&quot; - all from the 2nd century A.D., give or take a  hundred or so years - that share enough conventions to be labeled a  &quot;genre&quot;.  Their plots, in broadest outline, are identical:  Boy  and girl meet, fall in love, are married or about to be married, then are  snatched apart by misfortune, faced with escalating threats to life and  chastity, and finally reunited with virtue intact (hers anyway - his may  wind up a bit tattered).<br />Within this pattern, there is much variation.   &quot;An Ephesian Tale&quot; is sheer melodrama, &quot;Chaereas and  Callirhoe&quot; a loosely historical romance, &quot;An Ethiopian  Story&quot; a skillful narrative that opens with a trompe l'oeil scene that  would do credit to a contemporary novelist.  Perhaps the most interesting  to the modern reader is &quot;Daphnis and Chloe&quot;, where the perils to  the lovers are more psychological than physical and the story traces their  love affair from the first stirrings of adolescent attraction through  long-delayed consummation.<br />Also present are works in other genres:  a  bawdy comedy (&quot;The Ass&quot;, wrongly attributed in the Middle Ages to  Lucian), a Munchausen-like travelogue (the authentic Lucian's &quot;True  Romance&quot;) and the faux historical &quot;Alexander Romance&quot;, which  shaped the later image of Alexander the Great as much as or more than did  genuinehistory.<br />The translations, all but one specially prepared for  this volume, are readable and generally lively.  Only one of translators  (burdened with the rather hopeless &quot;Leucippe and Clitophon&quot;, in  which he labors to uncover deeply hidden virtues) feels compelled to  preface his effort with a discourse on literary theory.<br />The narratives  gathered here are little-traveled paths in the terrain of classical  literature and the reader may stumble now and then among the brambles, but  the sights along the way are not without interest and charm.	2000-04-26
US	52860511	R1KN8PLF09FF2R	0393028135	178267094	C.S. Lewis: A Biography	Books	2	59	71	N	N	Not Even Good for Irony	There is great, though, as it turns out, pointless, irony in the fact that the English litterateur A. N. Wilson penned this life of a famous Christian apologist while he was in the process of giving up his own Christian faith.  One might anticipate from such a juxtaposition some unusual insight into  Lewis' (in this case unsuccessful) methods of argumentation.  Alas, nothing  of the sort occurs.  This is simply another Lewis biography, following the  familiar outline laid down by Lewis' own &quot;Surprised by Joy&quot; and  adding very little, save for catty psychological guesswork, that has not  appeared in earlier productions of the prolific Lewis  &quot;industry&quot;.<br />The book's great sensation is the assertion that  the young Lewis, at around age 20, had an affair with Mrs. Jane Moore, the  woman whom he &quot;adopted&quot; as a mother figure for the rest of his  life.  The theory lacks both plausibility and evidence.  Lewis had lost his  mother at a young age and had chafed under his father's well-meant but  wrong-headed tutelage.  Mrs. Moore's son, for a while Lewis' closest  friend, had died in the Great War.  That the two should have formed a  substitute family is not at all surprising.  Wilson offers no grounds for  supposing that any sexual undertones were present.  The kind of  &quot;evidence&quot; that he gathers demonstrates little.  To take one  telling item, he points to the fact that Lewis' diaries use the Greek  letter delta (our &quot;D&quot;) as shorthand for Mrs. Moore.  Of the many  Greek words and names beginning with that letter, he singles out  &quot;Diotimia&quot;, the courtesan who introduced Socrates to eros.  That  is just a wild guess, evidently made without knowledge of the fact that  delta is the first letter of the Greek transliteration of &quot;Jane&quot;.   (Our &quot;j&quot; sound is not native to the language but can be  represented by the diphthong delta-zeta.)<br />Wilson's major weakness as a  biographer is not, however,his dubiously supported bursts of malice but  rather his incurious, intellectually lazy approach to a field where he has  a number of predecessors.  A life that looked at Lewis from a different  angle, that, for instance, probed his pre-Christian philosophical opinions  and asked to what extent they truly changed as a result of his conversion  or that placed his apologetics next to the works (Wells, Huxley, Bergson,  Teilhard de Chardin et al.) against which he was reacting or that gave  adequate attention to his professional literary interests, could have been  a fresh and vivid portrait.  One that accepts prior interpretations with a  few unflattering twists is not.<br />There is no point in writing a biography  simply in order to say what has been said before - not even if one says it  with slightly more elegance and now and then taxes the subject for his  failure to anticipate politically correct points of view.  As a compendium  of bare facts, sprinkled with factoids, Wilson's book is acceptable, but it  is hard to imagine a reason for anybody to seek it out.	2000-04-25
US	52860511	R3IQZNH4FLASGY	080326366X	599993382	Small Wars: Their Principles and Practice (Third Edition)	Books	5	39	41	N	N	For Armchair Kitcheners	Written early in the 20th Century to teach British officers how to wage war against non-European armies in Asia and Africa, &quot;Small Wars&quot; retains its fascination at century's end.  In fact, many of its lessons  could well be applied to conflicts today.<br />The author served in the Second  Afghan and both Boer Wars, was an assiduous student of warfare around the  globe and retired as a Major General after heading the British Army's  Intelligence division during the Great War.  The breadth of his knowledge  is shown by the range of examples that illustrate the principles laid down  in his book.  The chapter on &quot;Feints&quot;, for instance, draws on  actions from the Zulu Wars, the Indian Mutiny, the 1821 Wallachian  insurrection against the Ottoman Empire, the Second Afghan War, the Kaffir  War of 1878, the French occupation of Algeria, the British expedition  against Abyssinia in 1868, the siege of Khartoum, the suppression of Riel's  revolt in Canada, the war against the Mahdi and a couple of Indian  campaigns.  Elsewhere, we are presented with the Russians in Central Asia,  the French in Tonkin, Dahomey and Madagascar, the U.S. cavalry against the  Indians of the Great Plains, the British and French in China, and many more  now-obscure imbroglios.<br />The first several chapters lay down broad  strategic principles, most of them flowing from the key insight that  regular armies enjoy great tactical advantages over forces inferior in  organization, arms, training and discipline but suffer equally great  strategic handicaps.  In a &quot;small war&quot;, therefore, the more  &quot;advanced&quot; power can easily lose, due to ignorance of the enemy,  failure to formulate clear objectives or, worst of all, the pursuit of  military objectives that do not contribute to the conflict's political  goal.  Erroneous strategy, Callwell warns again and again, leads to  desultory, defensive war that exhausts the regulars' resources while merely  exasperating ratherthan subduing their enemy.  (The reader may draw his  own contemporary parallels.)<br />After the strategic foundation come  discussions of operations and tactics from multiple perspectives:  the  character of the action (attack, defense, pursuit, retreat, feint, etc.),  the terrain on which it is fought, and the types of troops that fight it  (including such exotica as camel corps and the not-yet-dominant machine  gun).  The commander who mastered Callwell's course was prepared to force a  mountain pass, assault a Boer laager or Sudanese zeriba, maneuver through a  jungle or carry out any of the other varied tasks that circumstances might  demand.<br />Aside from the inherent interest of its variegated subject matter  and its appeal to wargamers, &quot;Small Wars&quot; will prove illuminating  to the reader who wishes to understand more fully what happened in colonial  warfare and how and why European forces won and lost.  It is one of those  rare works that makes concrete the challenges and achievements of a bygone  era.	2000-04-18
US	52860511	RNA6U95X0SP62	0156847485	69618941	Spirits In Bondage: A Cycle Of Lyrics	Books	3	57	58	N	N	The Earliest Lewis	Published a few months after the end of the Great War as part of the vogue for &quot;soldier poets&quot;, this slim verse cycle (a prologue and 40 short poems) was C. S. Lewis' first book.  Sales were minuscule, and it was  never reprinted during the author's lifetime.<br />The poet was not yet 21,  and his world view was dominated by two principles:  rage-filled atheism  (&quot;I maintained that God did not exist.  I was also very angry with God  for not existing.  I was equally angry with Him for creating a  world.&quot;) and romantic longing (in the words of the prologue,  &quot;Sing about the Hidden Country fresh and full of quiet green/ Sailing  over seas uncharted to a port that none has seen&quot;).  In the long run,  these proved incompatible.  In 1919 they rested side by side.  In the first  21 poems of the cycle (&quot;The Prison House&quot;), the former  predominates.  In the second half (&quot;Hesitation&quot; and &quot;The  Escape&quot;), an occult-tinged search for a spiritual world that may or  may not actually exist offers release from bondage, climaxing in the finale  &quot;Death in Battle (xl)&quot;, with its stirring yet poignant first  stanza:<br /> &quot;Open the gates for me,/   Open the gates of the  peaceful castle, rosy in the West,/   In the sweet dim Isle of Apples  over the wide sea's breast,/   Open the gates for  me!&quot;<br />&quot;Death in Battle&quot; is distinctly the highlight, as  well as the conclusion, of the cycle.  The beginning is also good, a bleak,  powerful &quot;Satan Speaks (i)&quot;:  &quot;I am Nature, the Mighty  Mother,/ I am the law:  ye have none other.&quot;  In between are striking  lines (&quot;And here he builds a nebula, and there he slays a sun&quot;  (&quot;Ode for New Year's Day (viii)&quot;)) but also many collections of  images that fail to cohere (the two poems entitled &quot;Night&quot; (ix  and xxix)) and much bald exposition that gains nothing from being set in  verse (&quot;Dungeon Grates (xv)&quot;, an apparent attempt to spell out  the &quot;philosophy&quot; underlying Richard Lovelace's famous &quot;To  Althea, From Prison&quot;).<br />Often talent and imagination overcome  technical faults.  Although &quot;The Star Bath (xxxvi)&quot; is almost as  badly overloaded as the two &quot;Nights&quot;, its image of a primeval  cleansing of the heavens clings to the reader's memory.  &quot;Irish  Nocturne (v)&quot;, where the fog of industrial pollution symbolizes modern  spiritual lethargy, has its clumsy moments but is redeemed by its  concluding lines:<br /> &quot;For I know that the colourless skies/    And the blurred horizons breed/   Lonely desire and many words and  brooding and never a deed.&quot;<br />Scattered also here and there are  fantasy vignettes that relieve the heaviness of their companions and look  forward to the &quot;pictures in my head&quot; that gave rise to Lewis'  best work.  &quot;Spooks (vi)&quot; tells of a ghost lingering at his  sweetheart's door, &quot;The Witch (xiv)&quot; of an enchantress' flight  through the woods, &quot;How He Saw Angus the God (xxxiii)&quot; of a  Celtic epiphany.<br />If Lewis had written nothing else, this volume would not  have kept his name alive.  Few but Lewis completists are likely to buy it,  but that audience will, I think, find it more readable and interesting than  they anticipated.	2000-04-15
US	52860511	R3ETIM231I11Z1	0198122314	4932095	Poetry and Prose in the Sixteenth Century (Oxford History of English Literature)	Books	5	65	69	N	N	Through Drab to Gold	Commissioned as a volume in &quot;The Oxford History of English Literature&quot;, &quot;English Literature in the Sixteenth Century Excluding Drama&quot;, as it was originally titled, proved such tedium to  write that Lewis took to referring to it by the acronym &quot;OHEL&quot;.   The sixteenth century ends as one of the great ages - arguably the greatest  - of English literary genius, but it began dismally.  Except in Scotland,  where a vigorous Medieval tradition lived on, &quot;authors seem to have  forgotten the lessons which had been mastered in the Middle Ages and  learned little in their stead.  Their prose is clumsy, monotonous,  garrulous; their verse either astonishingly tame and cold or, if it  attempts to rise, the coarsest fustian. . . .  Nothing is light, or tender,  or fresh.  All the authors write like elderly men.&quot;<br />This period of  &quot;bludgeon-work&quot; gave way to something almost worse, &quot;the  Drab Age&quot; - &quot;earnest, heavy-handed, commonplace&quot;, a time  when England did not shine and the peripheral light of Scotland guttered  out.<br />The story would scarcely be worth telling, save for the happy  ending, a true eucatastrophe:  &quot;Then, in the last quarter of the  century, the unpredictable happens.  With startling suddenness, we ascend.   Fantasy, conceit, paradox, color, incantation return.  Youth returns.  The  fine frenzies of ideal love and ideal war are readmitted.  Sidney, Spenser,  Shakespeare, Hooker . . . display what is almost a new culture:  that  culture which was to last through most of the seventeenth century and  enrich the very meanings of the words England and Aristocracy.  Nothing in  the earlier history of our period would have enabled the sharpest observer  to foresee this transformation.&quot;<br />Had the scope of his labors not  been set by his commission, Lewis would doubtless have preferred to skip  the clumsy and drab, to delve into the riches of the Age of Gold.  Still,  despite his preferences, he was an apt choice to mine the less precious  veins.  Unlike many of his academic colleagues, who then as now regarded  literature as merely a &quot;job&quot;, Lewis read avidly in the most  obscure corners.  Little though he admired the early and drab writers, he  was familiar with their work and could tease out virtues as well as point  to flaws.<br />Three points about this history stand out as unexpected or  significant.  First is the fine opening chapter, &quot;New Learning and New  Ignorance&quot;, which contests the commonplace view that the medieval  period was a vale of ignorance from which mankind was happily rescued by  the Renaissance.  That opinion is no longer prevalent in scholarly circles  (where Lewis is now sometimes derided for expounding the conventional  wisdom - much like accusing Shakespeare of writing in cliches!), but most  general readers take it for granted.  Lewis' presentation is one-sided, but  it is a side that needs to be heard.<br />Second, Lewis devotes considerable  space to Scotland, a territory absent from most of our literature classes.   Though the Scots dialect is not easy to parse, Douglas and Dunbar and  Lyndsay and their ilk are worthy of acquaintance.<br />Third - a slighter  point than the preceding but interesting in its own right - there is Lewis'  treatment of John Donne.  As a young man, Lewis wrote a notorious essay on  Donne, dispraising the quality of his love poetry and hinting that his  vogue was due more to fashion than merit.  For these heresies he became the  stock villain of every introduction to Donne's work.<br />The &quot;OHEL&quot;  volume takes a different tack.  Lewis' appreciation of the &quot;Songs and  Sonnets&quot; is warm and perceptive, with a useful disquisition on how to  catch the rhythm of Donne's eccentric versification.  It was not only,  apparently, in matters of faith that Lewis was capable of casting off his  youthful skepticism.<br />Within its genre - the comprehensive academic  history - Lewis' effort is as good as a single mind and hand can produce.   Similar tomes are nowadays parceled out chapter by chapter, gaining no  doubt in narrow expertise but losing personality and perspective.  Both are  present in plenitude here.	2000-04-15
US	52860511	R1LLQ69J0C4K3T	0156678977	331643010	Of Other Worlds: Essays and Stories	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Lewis on Storytelling	This slender grab bag (long and short essays, a recorded conversation about science fiction with Brian Aldiss and Kingsley Amis, three brief science fiction stories, fragments of a scarcely started novel) centers on  the writing and reading of stories.  The gems of the collection are  &quot;On Stories&quot;, which explores the relationship between  &quot;story&quot; and &quot;plot&quot; and would be valuable reading for  the many authors whose fictions serve up immiscible blobs of action and  characterization and &quot;atmosphere&quot;, and &quot;On Science  Fiction&quot;, which skillfully analyzes the merits and defects of the  several subspecies of fantastic literature.  The latter essay includes the  best single sentence of advice to writers that I have ever read:   &quot;Whatever in a work of art is not used, is doing  harm.&quot;<br />Enlightening is &quot;On Criticism&quot;, an (unfortunately  unfinished) tour of book reviewers' bad habits.  &quot;A Reply to Professor  Haldane&quot; (also unfinished), defending the &quot;Perelandra&quot;  trilogy against the criticisms of a Marxist scientist, is both an enjoyable  polemic and a precis of the sociopolitical argument developed at length in  &quot;The Abolition of Man&quot;.<br />The other nonfiction pieces are  slighter, though not without interest.  The short stories are minor  efforts.  The scraps of a novel, set in the aftermath of the Trojan War,  were written when Lewis' health was failing; in his younger days, they  might have eventuated in an equal to &quot;Till We Have Faces&quot;, but  that promise is quite faint.<br />This is far from the best of Lewis, but  enough of it is very good to justify the modest price.	2000-04-14
US	52860511	R3U7J4YBIDUYGI	0312866992	992395733	Justinian	Books	4	23	27	N	N	The Drawback to Historical Imagination	SF author Harry Turtledove had a utilitarian motive for publishing his first straight historical novel under a (not very opaque) pseudonym. Historical fiction (leaving aside Patrick O'Brian) doesn't sell very well.  The author didn't want the bookstore chains' computers to see poor sales for a &quot;Turtledove&quot; title and promptly cut their orders for his future books.<br />Sales of &quot;Justinian&quot; may be further depressed by the fact (noted by many reviewers) that the protagonist is, from the modern point of view, detestable: cruel, arrogant and supremely confident that God is on his side.  His courage, intelligence and genuine, albeit imperfectly realized, religious faith are buried beneath his vices.<br />The obstacle to making Justinian sympathetic is that the assumptions and prejudices of his age were vastly different from our own.  An accurate portrait of _any_ Seventh Century man cannot avoid warts that repell us moderns (and we would probably be just as repulsive to them, if they could look at us). When the Seventh Century man was flawed even by the standards of his contemporaries, our feelings of revulsion are hard to control.<br />That is why most historical fiction dips its heroes and heroines in sugar. There is much to be said in favoring entertainment over truth, but it doesn't hurt to stifle our natural impulses and look truth straight in the eye now and then.  &quot;Justinian&quot; certainly does that - and with a great deal of verve and verisimilitude, too.	2000-04-13
US	52860511	RW20RQIO4J0Z3	0825436389	167221278	Historical Commentary on Galatians	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Classic Historical Commentary	Like many of Paul's other letters, the Epistle to the Galatians spoketo an immediate controversy...Sir William Ramsay's commentaryaddresses the resulting historical perplexities: When was the letter written?  To whom was it addressed?  What were the precise points in controversy?  Who were the opponents of Paul's views?  How were the issues actually resolved by the infant Church?  Or did they, as 19th Century German scholarship posited, lead to a fatal breach between Jewish and Gentile forms of Christianity?<br /> Ramsay (1851-1939) was well-equipped to delve into this area by virtue of his extensive knowledge of the history of Asia Minor, to which he devoted his archeological career.  Though the present work is now a century old, it has never been superseded as a source of background information essential to seeing the epistle in historical context.<br /> Ramsay's most noteworthy contribution was to make a powerful case for the view that the &quot;Galatians&quot; whom Paul exhorted were inhabitants of the cities of Phrygia and Lycaonia (in South Central Anatolia) that he had proselytized during his first missionary journey...  Ramsay's &quot;South Galatian&quot; hypothesis has remained a minority opinion, though a review of mainstream commentaries suggests that the &quot;North Galatian&quot; alternative rests largely on prejudice...  particular, it is not easy to fit a Pauline visit to North Galatia into the narrative of Acts, and many modernist commentators, convinced that Acts is of little historical value, seem to see that as a point against Ramsay... Ramsay is normally a clear writer, but this particular book suffers from the fact that injuries sustained in an accident prevented him from making final revisions to the manuscript.  As a result, the discussion is in places disjointed.  Also, the reader will need to refer frequently to the text of Acts in order to grasp the argument fully.<br /> This commentary is not, in short, for casual reading, nor will it profit those whose interest lies solely in the doctrine of Galatians rather than its place in history.  But for those who study it with care, it will offer abundant fruit.  END	2000-04-13
US	52860511	R3FXZXA690MT2F	0915230178	745753711	The Man from Tibet: A Theocritus Lucius Westborough Mystery	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Mystical Lore in the Service of a &quot;Perfect&quot; Murder	In unskilled literary hands, a stolen Tibetan manuscript would be no more than a macguffin, the monk who seeks to recover it a stereotyped Oriental and the exotic background of lamaistic Buddhism a mere swatch of distracting &quot;color&quot;.  What makes this &quot;fair play&quot;  detective novel exceptional - well worth reading six decades after its  original publication - is its use of all of these elements as integral  parts of an expertly constructed story.<br /> Clason's detective, Prof.  Theocritus Lucius Westborough, is perfectly matched to this case.  A fussy,  unworldly scholar - when we first meet him, he is correcting proofs of his  new monograph and puzzling over the publisher's decision to title it  &quot;Heliogabalus:  Rome's Most Degenerate Emperor&quot; - he is  believably capable of tackling the mystical teachings of an Eighth Century  sage and discerning their role in a Twentieth Century murder.  In a more  mundane setting, he might be a bit of a caricature; here, he shines.<br />  The central plot is strong enough to withstand weaknesses of a kind not  unexpected in a genre novel of its era.  Westborough's police detective  friend is more than a bit of a caricature.  An insipid romantic subplot  serves no apparent purpose except to give the one young female among the  dramatis personae something to do.  The mechanism by which the foul deed is  carried out makes Rube Goldberg look like a master of simplicity.  And the  ending comes abruptly as soon as the murderer is unmasked, leaving the  reader to wonder (it is a tribute to the book's qualities that the reader  does wonder) what afterwards befell the lama Tsongpun Bonbo and the  alluring but dangerous writings of Padma Sambhava.<br /> Clason wrote half  a dozen other detective novels before abandoning the field to concentrate  primarily on nonfiction.  According to the publisher's afterword, he has  continued to hold a high reputation among a very small segment of mystery  readership.  On the evidence of &quot;The Man from Tibet&quot;, that  segment deserves speedy enlargement.	2000-04-12
US	52860511	R2OCVNBV9UBWZF	1565630599	876868508	The Letters to the Seven Churches	Books	5	39	40	N	N	History Behind Revelation	At the beginning of the Book of Revelation are &quot;letters&quot; to churches in seven cities of Asia Minor, praising, rebuking and admonishing their congregations and disclosing how Christ views their works.<br /> To  the modern reader, these prefatory letters may seem as riddling as the  symbol-filled apocalyptic visions that make up the bulk of the book.  But  the &quot;seven churches&quot; existed in real locales, and Sir William  Ramsay shows how the letters addressed to them acutely reflect local  circumstances.<br /> Ramsay (1851-1939) was a prominent archeologist  specializing in Greek and Roman Asia Minor.  He was also a prolific writer  on early Church history.  &quot;The Letters to the Seven Churches&quot; is  a superb synthesis of these areas of expertise.  Its first part surveys  what can be known of the places, peoples and institutions of late First  Century Asia Minor.  Ramsay then proceeds to analyze each of the letters,  first recounting pertinent aspects of the city's history and geography,  then relating those to the biblical text.  The connections are always  interesting and often illuminating.<br /> Inevitably, speculative elements  creep in.  Ramsay infers much more about the &quot;Nicolaitans&quot;, whom  the letters denounce in unrestrained terms, than the evidence seems to  warrant, and his statements about the &quot;Flavian persecution&quot;,  whose very existence is doubted by many scholars, should be read with  caution.<br /> Ramsay took the traditionalist side in the scholarly  debates concerning the early Church, but this work is not in a  controversial vein.  Modernists need not fear that perusing it will  undermine their faith, and everyone who is interested in what Christianity  looked like in its earliest days will learn much from its pages.	2000-04-08
US	52860511	RPUV4PQKHRAPU	0385413602	51834401	The Letter of James: A New Translation with Introduction and Commentary (Anchor Bible, Vol 37A)	Books	5	42	42	N	N	Thorough and Informative Commentary	A reader who encounters the Epistle of St. James without preconceptions is unlikely to see anything in it that would account for its position as one of the most disputed and problematic works in the New Testament canon.  On  the surface, the book is a series of apparently disjointed reflections and  injunctions, emphasizing the absolute goodness of God, human responsibility  for sin, the need to restrain intemperate speech and other passions, and  the deadness of religious faith that does not lead to action on behalf of  the poor and suffering.  Both form and content reflect what one would  expect from a very early Christian writing in the tradition of Jewish  Wisdom literature.<br /> If the same reader consults the typical modern  commentary, he will get a very different picture:  of a pseudonymous  composition, dating from as late as 150 A.D., whose real point is to attack  the theology of St. Paul (which is allegedly either misrepresented or  misunderstood).  This negative view goes back as far as Martin Luther, who  branded James &quot;a right strawy epistle&quot; and only reluctantly  included it in his translation of the Bible.<br /> Luke Timothy Johnson's  commentary ably defends the epistle against its detractors and reveals the  profound beauty of its thought.  In a lucid fashion, with almost (but only  almost) no academic jargon and turgidity (he really ought to find synonyms  for &quot;rich&quot; as an adjective and worry less about James' failure to  use &quot;gender-neutral&quot; language), Johnson presents a wealth of  information about the epistle's literary and historical background, its  reception by the Church and its place in Christian thought and worship.   Especially acute is his analysis of James' line of argument, which he shows  to be remarkably coherent, albeit not linear and easy to grasp.<br />  There has lately been a revival of scholarly interest in James, &quot;the  Brother of the Lord&quot;.  Before turning to the solid but plodding John  Painter (&quot;Just James&quot;) or the wild-eyed Robert Eisenman, one  would do well to absorb Johnson's thorough and informative study.	2000-04-08
US	52860511	R3059S5V889VBH	0334023017	559243013	Redating the New Testament	Books	5	132	137	N	N	A Title That Deserves Reprinting	What a pity that this pathbreaking work is out of print while publishers flood the bookstores with fantasy-as-history in an unending stream.<br /> Bishop Robinson, a theological modernist whose &quot;Honest to God&quot; made him controversial within the Anglican communion, began this book as what he labels &quot;a theological joke&quot;: &quot;I thought I would see how far one could get with the hypothesis that the whole of the New Testament was written before 70&quot;, the year in which the Roman army sacked and burned the Temple of Jerusalem.  As it turned out, he got much further than he had ever expected, a journey made more impressive by his lack of any predisposition toward a &quot;conservative&quot; point of view.<br /> His conclusion is that there is no compelling evidence - indeed, little evidence of any kind - that anything in the New Testament canon reflects knowledge of the Temple's destruction.  Furthermore, other considerations point consistently toward early dates and away from the common assumption (a prejudice with a seriously circular foundation) that a majority of primitive Christian authors wrote in the very late First or early-to-middle Second Century under assumed names.<br /> For want of data, absolute proof of Robinson's thesis is impossible, and the weight of his arguments varies - from overwhelming in the case of the Epistle to the Hebrews through powerful (the Gospels, Acts and the Epistles of John) to merely strong (the Pastoral Epistles, the non-Johannine Catholic Epistles and Revelation).<br /> In a postscript, Robinson reconsiders the dates of several subapostolic works: The Clementine Epistles, the Shepherd of Hermas, the Epistle of Barnabas and the Didache, the accepted dates for which range from the 90's to the latter half of the Second Century.  He shows that, freed of the &quot;push&quot; of late dating of the canon, the most natural dates for these writings are earlier and that all could well have been written by 85 A.D.<br /> Whether or not one agrees with every word of Robinson's analysis, he makes his case well and should force all students of the New Testament to rethink seriously the presuppositions that underlie much of what is currently written about First Century Christianity.  Of course, that's not likely to happen unless some publisher brings &quot;Redating the New Testament&quot; back into print.	2000-04-08
US	52860511	R23IWXGQWYV9HM	0684826585	975185304	Alias Shakespeare	Books	1	83	128	N	N	With Advocates Like This. . . .	The controversy over the authorship of Shakespeare's works arouses so much emotion that readers tend to praise unthinkingly any writing that supports their own views.  One ought to judge cogency separately from conclusions.   Sobran's book, though literate and entertaining, leaves huge gaps in its  argumentation and ultimately presents a feeble, barely coherent case for  the &quot;Oxford was Shakespeare&quot; position.  If I believed its thesis  (which I'll admit that I don't), I would not direct an undecided inquirer  here.<br /> Four points are crucial to Sobran's case:  (i) the allegedly  aristocratic character of Shakespeare's plays, which supposedly must have  been written by a nobleman of ancient family, (ii) the paucity of  information about the life of Will Shakespeare of Stratford, (iii)  statements and actions by contemporaries that disclose awareness that  &quot;the Stratford man&quot; was not the playwright and (iv) the motive  for Oxford's concealment of his authorship.  In all four areas, the  argument is badly flawed.<br /> 1.  Sobran's picture of Elizabethan  England would be truer of Philip II's Spain.  The English Court was not  isolated in some Escorial but located close to London, where its activities  were the subject of avid public scrutiny.  Playgoers liked to see  aristocrats portrayed on the stage (as the very popularity of Shakespeare's  works proves), so that is what the author (and many others) gave them.  As  for the plays' evidently conservative political views, of which Sobran  makes much, haven't such opinions always been widespread among the  property-holding English middle class?  Samuel Johnson and Edmund Burke  were not hereditary peers!<br /> 2.  Shakespeare of Stratford's biography  cannot be written in the same detail as the 17th Earl of Oxford's, but no  law says that great literature can be written only by men with thoroughly  documented lives.  What is known about Shakespeare, a prominent theater  owner and manager, is congruous with his authorship of the plays, and no  one else was ever credited with them during his lifetime.  The evidence  includes statements by persons, such as Ben Jonson, who knew the playwright  (whoever he was) personally and referred to him as &quot;Shakespeare&quot;  in diary entries not intended for publication.  Sobran's case to the  contrary rests primarily on psychological speculation (mostly derived from  a literalistic reading of the Sonnets that tries to convert poetry into  autobiography, always a perilous endeavor).  Astoundingly, he introduces  Shakespeare's will as evidence of stylistic ineptitude.  Does he imagine  that Elizabethans, any more than modern Americans, drafted their own legal  documents?<br /> 3.  Sobran claims that Oxford's authorship of the plays  was not in fact unknown to contemporaries.  He offers various alleged  allusions to &quot;the truth&quot; and places decisive weight on the lack  of reaction in London when Shakespeare died in Stratford.  Quite simply,  almost everybody, according to Sobran, knew the facts.  Why, then, did  everybody keep them secret?  Were hundreds of Elizabethans complicit in a  plot to hoodwink posterity?  To his credit, Sobran sees that there is a  problem here.  His response is to assert that English censorship was of  near-totalitarian efficiency and that, for some unguessable reason, it  ferociously forbade assertions of Oxfordian authorship - even in private  letters and journals, even long after Oxford had died - despite the fact  that suppression of well-known facts would have served no discernible  purpose.  Only someone quite ignorant of Elizabethan politics and society  could seriously advance such a view.<br /> 4.  Finally, why the secrecy?   Sobran is less explicit than one would like, but he lays much stress on  Oxford's alleged homosexual relationship with Henry Wriothesley  (1573-1624), Earl of Southampton and dedicatee of Shakespeare's two long  poems, &quot;The Rape of Lucrece&quot; and &quot;Venus and Adonis&quot;.   The reader is left with the impression that the principal motive for hiding  Oxford's authorship of the plays was to cover up this scandal.  The reader  is _not_ left with any idea of why or how Oxford would have been  incriminated if his connection with the plays had become known.  The point  is simply assumed rather than explained.<br /> Not even addressed is a  chronological oddity.  In order to fit the plays into Oxford's lifetime  (1550-1604), Sobran must challenge conventional dating.  He places  &quot;The Comedy of Errors&quot; in 1577, &quot;Titus Andronicus&quot; in  or before 1584, &quot;Hamlet&quot; in or before 1589.  By inference, much  of the rest of the canon must come from the 1570's and 1580's.  The Earl of  Southampton was first presented at court in 1590 and was certainly not the  object of amorous attentions in 1577 (at age four!).  Hence, many of the  plays, on Sobran's showing, appear to have antedated Oxford's motive for  concealment of his identity as their true author.<br /> Sobran makes a  welter of subsidiary points, many of them only loosely connected to his  thesis (e. g., the omission of Shakespeare's poems from the First Folio)  and others unconvincing (e. g., naive vocabulary comparisons).  The alert  reader who asks himself, &quot;What does this prove?&quot;, &quot;What real  evidence is there for that?&quot;, &quot;Are there more plausible  explanations of those facts?&quot;, will eventually dismiss Sobran's  conclusions as Oliver Stone-like balderdash.  In the unlikely event that  the Earl of Oxford really wrote Shakespeare and is now in a position to  care about his posthumous reputation, he must be in despair of having  friends and advocates like this one.	2000-04-08
US	52860511	R5TAJYIOUPLEW	0800631692	65361217	Just James Personalities of NT (Personalities of the New Testament Series)	Books	4	55	60	N	N	Restored Portrait of an Early Christian Leader	James &quot;the Just&quot;, &quot;the brother of the Lord&quot;, is remembered in Christian tradition as the first bishop of Jerusalem and the author of a canonical epistle.  In the Orthodox Church, his feast day is marked by a special liturgy, celebrated on no other occasion.  In short, he  holds a place as a Great Man in the early Church.  Nevertheless, his  theoretical greatness is coupled with practical obscurity.  Next to the  towering figures of Peter and Paul, James is a shadowy presence.  Even the  one writing attributed to him, a high point of &quot;Wisdom  literature&quot;, has suffered neglect, burdened by Martin Luther's  contemptuous dismissal of its contents as &quot;straw&quot;.<br /> John  Painter seeks to restore the portrait of &quot;Just James&quot; to its  original brilliance.  He considers every ancient text that bears on James:   the handful of references in the New Testament, the short but significant  testimony of Josephus, the thin line of orthodox remembrance and the much  more abundant Gnostic and heretical appropriation of James' image.  The  available information about James has never before been so carefully and  thoroughly assembled.  Sadly, though, the pigments on the canvas remain  scattered and faded, so that the Painterly picture has in it, in the end,  more of the artist than the subject.<br /> On some elements of James'  life, Professor Painter is fresh and convincing.  He demonstrates the  weakness of the evidence underlying the conventional opinions that James  and the other &quot;brothers of the Lord&quot; converted to belief in Jesus  only after His death and that James did not become the &quot;leader&quot;  (whatever leadership may signify at that point in Christian history) of the  Jerusalem church until Peter departed from the city.  He also offers a  clear treatment of the early controversy over mission strategies, though  his symmetrical schema of six &quot;positions&quot; in the debate over  preaching to non-Jews may betoo abstract and tidy to reflect reality.<br />  On the other hand, his discussion of other topics is less satisfactory.  On  the degree of kinship between Jesus and James, he presents the standard  arguments against Jerome's hypothesis (that the two were cousins) but  rejects the traditional view of the Eastern Church (that they were  half-brothers) without grappling with it.  His argument is half  well-poisoning (guilt by association with the often-preposterous  Protevangelium of James) and half literalism (&quot;adelphos&quot; means  &quot;brother&quot;, and that's that, as if there were any other natural  Greek word to use for a brother by only one parent).<br /> Even worse is  his analysis of the motives that led the Jerusalem authorities to put James  to death in 62 A.D., an action that the non-Christian Josephus  characterizes as a judicial murder.  The natural assumption, unanimously  supported by Christian accounts, is that James was martyred for professing  Christ.  Professor Painter, on virtually no evidence, prefers to believe  that James was closely associated with economically distressed Temple  priests of pharisaic tendencies and was executed for his advocacy of their  interests.  Such a socioeconomic interpretation may resonate today, but one  wonders how James and his small congregation could have genuinely  threatened the political power of the High Priesthood and whether Professor  Painter is right to presume that Pharisees would not have objected to  injustice against someone who was not of their own faction.<br />  Questionable points like these do not, however, undermine the value of this  scholarly labor.  The limitations of the surviving sources necessarily make  the history of early Christianity largely a study of two apostles (or of  one and a half, since Pauline material is so much more abundant than  Petrine).  An effort to fill in some of the rest of the picture is welcome.	2000-03-24
