US	52864495	R3OF0F38IZQCDY	0060753617	344843345	Seize the Fire: Heroism, Duty, and the Battle of Trafalgar	Books	1	9	19	N	Y	History for shopkeepers	I had high hopes for this book, and indeed there are places where Mr. Nicolson shows a real grip on narrative and whets our expectations. Unfortunately he seems obsessed with both a rather odd view of history and an odd style of writing. One can easily imagine Tony Blair sitting down and reading this book between cups of weak tea and nodding along. The overall structure of the book is on the one hand an hour by hour framework of the significant movements within the battle,and on the other a constant series of interruptions featuring Nicolson's ideas about socio-economic forces coupled with a somewhat post-modernist form of interpretation.  There is a clear aversion to Great Men, Great Ideas, or Great Issues throughout the book.  The battle is won before it is even fought because the English (Nicolson takes pains to emphasize this point of nationality ) are obsessed with loot, plunder, and a thoroughly materialistic view of the world, while the poor French and Spanish believe in Honour & Nobility. I honestly don't know what to make of lines like \\"His fleet waited in a state of victimhood\\".  One would laugh if people didn't take this sort of thing seriously! Nicolson is also obsessed with lists of Things Carried. This might be interesting if it either helped our understanding or furthered the narrative, instead it simply suggest that Mr. Nicolson spent a lot of time looking over ship's logs and felt that he had to do something with the information.  In spite of the title there really isn't THAT much about Nelson in this book and as far as I know none of it is new, except perhaps the decidedly sadistic air that Nicolson brings to Nelson's death. Do we really need to be reminded of what happens to bodily sphincters when the spinal chord is cut? Fie on you Mr. Nicolson!	2005-09-02
US	52864495	R31HYQ7KQ3VW63	0773522859	930524452	Eighteenth-Century Naturalists of Hudson Bay (McGill-Queen's Native and Northern)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	A real labor of love	This delightful book examines a fascinating group of people and a truly amazing place that most of us have never paid attention to.  With this carefully researched, lavishly illustrated (including 8 beautifully rendered colour prints of paintings by early bird artists that almost belong framed on the wall rather than hidden in the book)and heavily footnoted (over 20 PAGES of references!) book, Houston, Ball & Houston have gone a long way to shedding light on a forgotten era upon which many of our contemporary ideas in ecology have been based. <br /> <br />The stage is enormous: thousands of square miles of some of the barrenest land in the Western Hemisphere. The cast is fascinating: a band of explorer/naturalist/businessmen who carve out the great fur empire of the Hudson's Bay Company while at the same time keeping meticulous notes of everything from bird-life to temperatures. The authors move us along through both the biology, geography, and history at a good pace & provide some fun insights in appendices like \\"How did the Canada Goose get its name before there was a Canada?\\" and \\"Cree names for Natural History species\\".  If you are the sort of biologist who is intrigued by details and/or want some real insight into a remarkable chapter in the history of the biology of North America, this book is for you!	2004-12-17
US	52864495	RKZVCYKIJZKS1	0226492370	515870850	Foundations of Biogeography: Classic Papers with Commentaries	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	An excellent sourcebook	This collection is a worthy companion to Chicago Univ. Press' earlier FOUNDATIONS OF ECOLOGY.  Spanning the period (literally) of Linnaeus to MacArthur BIOGEOGRAPHY presents a wealth of key sources (many now hard to find)which, when coupled with the Commetaries can form the core of a solid course on Biogeography.  While some folks may complain that the collection stops too soon (early 1970's) I think the editors have been wise to really restrict themsleves to classics with real staying power, rather than run the risk of being more \\"contemporary\\" by including things that may be little more than 9 days' wonders.  I would STRONGLY reccomend this book for any grad student or professor interested in ecology, biogeography, or evolution. I doubt my copy will spend much time on the shelf!	2004-12-03
US	52864495	R2H38WAGKUA3GD	0684872544	967310766	Wolves Eat Dogs	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Renko on form	Many of the mystery/thriller writers who specialized in Cold War scenarios have had a hard time making the transition to the New World Order (can anyone look forward to a new John LeCarre with other than mixed feelings?). Not so Martin Cruz Smith. His Arkady Renko has managed the transition to a post-Soviet world with remarkable grace & continues to intrigue us with both a fascinating series of cases and a degree of humanity that is usually lacking in the thriller genre -I can't help feeling that I would actually LIKE Renko if I met him.  Added to this is Martin Cruz Smith's excellent eye for detail & real grasp of the landscape. In this outing Renko moves from Moscow to the Exclusion Zone around the Chernobyl reactors, and we plunge with him into a world where death comes in a variety of flavors and forms as the action flows through not-so-abandoned villages, and a countryside where nuclear devastation lies next to almost surreal beauty. I won't spoil the book with any more plot hints, I do confess however that it lost a star in the very last chapter -I am still trying to decide if I can believe the last murderer- but shall we say that I started this book in San Jose, barely noted the plane change in Denver, and closed the cover in Boston having barely noticed one of the bumpier flights that I have yet taken. Excellent!	2004-11-28
US	52864495	R3R6ADQDMC93Q4	3791329685	203090781	Night Visions: The Secret Designs of Moths	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	WOW!	This is one of the most remarkable books that I have encountered in a long long time.  An artist friend who is aware of my tripartite interest in science, technology, and the arts grabbed me in the cafeteria last month &amp; said that I &quot;had to take a look at this&quot;.  She was absolutely right.  No, this ISN'T a scientific treatise on moths or a discourse on the natural history of insects, and one certainly wouldn't want to take it into the field to identify even the moths of the relatively small area sampled, BUT THAT ISN'T THE POINT! Instead one is treated  to stunning imagery of animals that most of us either ignore entirely or slaughter with &quot;bug-zappers&quot; and poisons &amp; seldom if ever grant the benefit of a second glance.  Thanks to Scheer my children &amp; I have had some very pleasant sessions simply sitting &amp; turning the pages &amp; the most frequent comment is the title of this review.  &quot;Wow!&quot; indeed.  Also Bravo to Scheer for giving us a wonderful look at a little seen &amp; greatly under-appreciated subject.	2004-03-21
US	52864495	R3RGA16MBKXPEW	3791329685	203090781	Night Visions: The Secret Designs of Moths	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	WOW!	This is one of the most remarkable books that I have encountered in a long long time.  An artist friend who is aware of my tripartite interest in science, technology, and the arts grabbed me in the cafeteria last months &amp; said that I &quot;had to take a look at this&quot;.  She was absolutely right.  No, this ISN'T a scientific treatise on moths or a discourse on the natural history of insects, and one certainly wouldn't want to take it into the field to identify even the moths of the relatively small area sampled, BUT THAT ISN'T THE POINT! Instead one is treated  to stunning imagery of animals that most of us either ignore entirely or slaughter with &quot;bug-zappers&quot; and poisons &amp; seldom if ever grant the benefit of a second glance.  Thanks to Scheer my children &amp; I have had some very pleasant sessions simply sitting &amp; turning the pages &amp; the most frequent comment is the title of this review.  &quot;Wow!&quot; indeed.  Also Bravo to Scheer for giving us a wonderful look at a little seen &amp; greatly under-appreciated subject.	2004-03-21
US	52864495	R3L9LUDVQF6SH9	1585422630	629327069	Strange Encounters: Adventures of a Renegade Naturalist	Books	3	12	12	N	Y	a bit of a disappointment	As a long standing fan of Botkin's excellent DISCORDANT HARMONIES I looked forward to diving into this autobiographical account of this remarkable naturalist's career &amp; thoughts.  Alas, by about a third of the way through I found my attention drifting away &amp; kept asking myself &quot;Yeees... so what?&quot; as essay piled on essay.  Botkin has obviously done some really interesting things &amp; has been to some odd and interesting places, but this book has far too much of the feel of satisfying a publisher's request of &quot;why don't you root around in the attic &amp; see if you can throw something together on sabbatical&quot; &amp; not enough of &quot;so here's how my life informed my work &amp; my work informed my life&quot;.  I passed the book along to one of my best undergrads, and she said almost the same thing without prompting. Several essays seem to be heading for some sort of exciting peak, but then they sort of fizzle out &amp; we are on to the next adventure without really understanding how to place what went before. This is too bad as I am confident that Botkin is capable of much much more. As an alternative, for folks interested in how the lives of ecologists affect their professional work I would suggest Dennis Chitty's excellent DO LEMMINGS COMMIT SUICIDE?	2004-02-07
US	52864495	R26OLU306U0RZ8	0195074696	409110527	Discordant Harmonies: A New Ecology for the Twenty-first Century	Books	4	6	8	N	N	An important and valuable alternative	I wish this book had been written about 15 years earlier &amp; I wish it was currently read by a wider audience. This is a well written book in which Botkin does an excellent job at articulating some of the troubling aspects of ecological theory as they move out into the world of policy, conservation, and belief. Like many of us Botkin was obviously raised in the academic environment of &quot;equilibrium models&quot; or &quot;Balance of Nature&quot; ideologies, and like some of us he found that what he actually saw in the field didn't really match up with what the theoreticians on the one hand and the hard-core &quot;environmentalists&quot; on the other were saying we had to believe. Botkin recognizes and revels in the complexities of the natural world and asks some difficult questions about the role that theory plays in shaping our overall perceptions. Anybody interested in conservation, land-use, or applied ecology would do well to spend some time with this book. The only reason that I don't give it 5 stars is that I wish that Botkin had gone a little farther -one gets the sense throughout that he has seen a promised land of a &quot;New Ecology&quot; but he keeps drawing back, he knows that there are fatal flaws in much ecological rhetoric, but he can't quite bring himself to say &quot;away with this nonsense&quot;.  Other than that, if there was one semi-popular ecology book that I would want folks to read, this would probably be a top candidate.	2004-01-09
US	52864495	R3DJJWG6D3AE0	0679456716	677265694	Castles of Steel: Britain, Germany, and the Winning of the Great War at Sea	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A good sequel to DREADNOUGHT	...but at the same time perhaps a little disappointing.  This is probably the most &quot;readable&quot; account of the Royal Navy in the First World War that I have read -and I have read quite a few- but at the same time I kept feeling that something was missing.  Part of me wonders if it has nothing to do with Massie &amp; the mere fact that the really important part of naval strategy in the Great War was making sure that Nothing Happened dooms any account to &quot;something missing&quot;. At the same time however I feel that Massie could have made use of a better editor in this follow-up to his really interesting first volume on the pre-war Anglo-German arms race.  Here we all too often have the text of a message or letter as it was written TO someone &amp; then a few pages later we have the exact same text repeated as it is received by someone -it makes one keep thinking &quot;but wait, we already KNEW that!&quot; More than half the book is devoted to the first year of the war, and much of the rest revolves around Jutland, and while I was fascinated by the accounts of Coronel &amp; the Falklands, I wish that Massie had perhaps given more time to the smaller engagements &amp; perhaps to the sheer tedious hell of the blockade. At the same time, given that I am discussing an author who has already shown a predeliction to battleships (and who writes superbly about them) I probably shouldn't complain that very little of this book goes anywhere that a battleship or a battleship enthusiast hasn't gone. Massie touches on the personalities &amp; issues of Jellicoe vs. Beatty, Churchill vs. Fisher, and Fisher vs. Everyone, but I wanted more. I am probably just greedy, but to me an ideal Massie would have been a trilogy: pre-war (already done extraordinarily well in his DREADNOUGHT); The war's outbreak through Jutland as a Vol 2. and post-Jutland to 1942 &amp; the effective end of battleships in the South China Sea in Vol 3. Lacking that this is still a &quot;must have&quot; for any fan of the Navy, but I feel a little like Beatty must have felt when the High Seas Fleet surrendered without a fight:Well, this is glorious, but it isn't exactly  what I wanted.	2003-11-26
US	52864495	R366JB6VE77BZ2	0792265386	535844308	The Mays of Ventadorn (National Geographic Directions)	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	a small gem	This is a delightful look at a wonderful place and a marvellous cast of characters by one of our most talented living poets.  I don't usually find myself yearning to move to France, but after reading The MAYS I couldn't help myself! Merwin's language is uniformally beautiful &amp; he makes both his people and his places come alive. I also enjoyed both the fragments of songs that Merwin translates for us and his discussion of the difficulties of translation -both across language and across time. My one critique (and the loss of a star) is that I wanted more.  Each time I felt that the &quot;story&quot; was REALLY going to start we would shift gears &amp; go somewhere else or talk about someone else, and after a while I gave up hoping for any conclusion or resolution. This may be the product of some arbirary editorial length (I note that the book is part of a travel series) but in any case it is a pity, as I could easily have read twice as much on half as many troubadors!	2003-09-23
US	52864495	R2YDCTBO953UDR	0816509875	975253195	The Forgotten Peninsula: A Naturalist in Baja California	Books	5	32	33	N	N	a lovely piece of writing about an amazing place	This is one of the books that first drew me to Baja california years ago.  Unfortunately much of what Krutch saw has inevitably been swept away by the rising tide of tourism &amp; development, but enough remains that Krutch's lyrical prose is more than a eulogy, one can still find some of teh magic that he describes so well here. I would strongly reccomend this book to anyone planning on visiting Baja California and/or anyone who is interested in the intersection between  natural history and literature -one gets both here.	2003-07-12
US	52864495	R3HFBH7C1XA8TB	0521644828	323054592	Conservation Biology	Books	2	10	10	N	Y	an adequate introduction for non-majors	When will I learn? I ordered this book for my class on Conservation Biology on the advice of a colleague at a major West Coast University. The moment it arrived I realized that I had mde a major mistake. The book is far too elementary for anyone with a good grounding in field ecology or conservation policy. The pictures are nice (beware text-books that have reviews that keep stressing &quot;beautifully illustrated&quot; -all too often that is a nice way of saying &quot;textually lacking&quot;!) but the text is definitely &quot;dumbed down&quot; &amp; my students squirmed in embarrassment when I forced them to read it. Margins are huge, graphics are of questionable value (when WILL folks stop using exploded 3-D pie charts for anything except confusing the board of directors?)and while the emphasis on the UK does give a sort of &quot;international&quot; flavour if you are teaching in the US it also means that you will need to do either a lot of explaining or give a lot of supplementary reading. my guess is that this book would fit in nicely with standard &quot;environmental studies&quot; curricula where the students were never going to come into contact with the original literature, didn't want to be pushed too hard, and wanted to be familiar with current buzz-words in onservation.  beyond that? I don't think so.	2003-07-12
US	52864495	R10SUEY3FQKPCV	0804720681	197216378	Between Pacific Tides: Fifth Edition	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Still &amp; always the classic	This is probably THE serious book to have if one is going to immerse oneself in the California intertidal. Originally produced by Ed Ricketts (of Steinbeck/Cannery Row/Log From The Sea Of Cortez fame) the book has been upgraded, revised, re-edited by a plethora of &quot;co-authors&quot; since Ricketts' untimely death. It still retains much of Ricketts' then-revolutionary Habitat focus, which will either work for you (it does for me) or annoy the hard-core systematists out there.  This ISN'T a light book to lug into the field or a light book to read -if you are just day-tripping The UC Press has a number of smaller &amp; more accessibly illustrated field guides that I would reccomend, But if you are seriously into mmarine Bio and have some time on your hands along the California Coastline, you owe it to yourself to get this book. Even here on the Coast of Maine and twenty years removed from the West I still fid myself referring to it...	2003-07-12
US	52864495	R1R8XP8V1OYIGC	0375505741	867162441	Blood of Victory: A Novel	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Entertaining formula	To be honest, it seems as if when you have read one Alan Furst novel you have read 'em all -at least as far as period & character development.  That being said, I enjoy Furst's novel and look forward to each new variation-on-a-theme that he puts out. Basically this book is another \\"nouvelle-noire\\" novel if there is such a thing, populated by characters that Bogart would be type-cast playing if we still had Bogart to play them.  The period is the early stages of the Second World War, the characters are all a bit jaded-but-on-the-right-side. If you have seen Casablanca as often as I have, you will feel right at home with the mood. In this particular outing Furst's Ur-heroe is supposedly trying to block the transport of Roumanian Oil (the title subject) to Nazi Germany, but the plot kinda wanders around & by the end one doesn't really care all that much about whether he succeeds or not -I guess that is the best part of a Furst novel, one can simply wallow in period & let the action swirl around one. Overall a pleasant diversion for a rainy afternoon.	2003-07-12
US	52864495	R1C6QN9RCDP7A3	0865424314	40637553	Conservation Biology in Theory and Practice	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The only textbook out there worth getting	This is a serious book about a serious subject, and reading it makes it clear how much we lost when we lost Graeme Caughley. This book is suitable for an advanced undergraduate or first-year graduate class in conservation where you are dealing with students who have at least some background in basic ecology and data analysis.  Written in Caughley's iconoclastic style, with a strong Southern hemisphere emphasis in terms of examples and case studies, the book is a welcome relief from the conservation-lite type texts that litter the booksellers inventories.  Caughley pulls no punches when he criticizes some of the more sweeping generalizations that have captured the popular imagination, and he expects his readers to be able to deal with math if they are going to mess around with survival curves, MVPs, or whatever.  I found the writing to be clear, lucid, and to the point. Caughley gives an excellent review of theoretical aspects of conservation & then delvs into a series of case studies that illustrate points made in the first half of the book.  Some of these will be familiar to most readers, others are more exotic, more intriguing, and each delivers useful lessons-of-practice to ponder over, argue about, and learn from.  Even though this text is now 7 years old it is perhaps a mark of Caughley's foresight that it still has a very contemporary feel to it.  Anne Gunn is to be commended for making sure that this book got out in a relatively intact form, and i would STRONGLY encourage professionals, teachers, and students to get it & keep it on your desk.	2003-07-12
US	52864495	R236PUVSIQ2UWJ	0879238712	190906225	The Four Adventures of Richard Hannay: The Thirty-Nine Steps/Greenmantle/Mr. Standfast/the Three Hostages	Books	5	61	61	N	N	Classic adventure yarns	As my title says, the Four Adventures are real classics that spawned a whole library of imitators.  Written as they were during the First World War and immediate post-war period by someone who both hob-nobbed with the political movers and shakers of the time & may have participated in some intertesting Intelligence work on his own (see Peter Hopkirk's LIKE HIDDEN FIRE for some of the \\"facts\\" behind GREENMANTLE)  they capture a time a place and a people at the height of British global dominance.  Given that the first three tales were written during some of the most desperate days of World War I it is no accident that there is some pro-British propaganda, but as the excellnt introduction to this edition points out, Buchan is remarkably kind to both friends and foes, and while the Bad-Guys are truly Bad, they also have their redeeming qualities. THIRTY-NINE STEPS has been made into a number of movies, none of which do it justice.  GREENMANTLE is my personal favorite & reading it again for the umpteenth time last year I was struck by how remarkably prescient Buchan was as to the problems we now face with an Islamic Middle East. Mr. Standfast actually wraps things up nicely, with some excellent descriptions of fighting on the Western Front, and I always felt that THE FOUR HOSTAGES was a bit of a tag-on that really wasn't needed (the same can be said of the fifth and long out of print Hannay adventure THE ISLE OF SHEEP, which has been sensibly left out of this volume).  If you like adventure stories with a strong male hero, a nice mystery, clearly defined Good and Evil, an appealing heroine (in the last three Adventures) and a good sense of history by someone who actually made part of it, this volume is for you. Readers of Alan Furst & the like will see where contemporary authors got their ideas & timing.  This is a wonderful look into a now vanished world that still has clues to our troubled present.	2003-07-06
US	52864495	RDNEIDLRD654K	0099416166	7102618	Reflections on a Summer Sea	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	If James Herriot had been a Marine Biologist....	...he would probably have written a book like this.  He wasn't, but fortunately we have Trevor Norton in this pleasant account of Long Ago and Far Away when Marine Biology was still in its infancy &amp; folks could learn much by simply observing animals. Here they observe them in the idyllic setting of Lough Ine, a brackish inlet on the Irish Coast, home of a somewhat ramshackle Marine Station since early in teh 20th century.  Norto's writing is clear &amp; lively &amp; really DOES remind me of James Herriot's vet books. Norton focuses as much on the people as he does on the science &amp; this makes for a fun read -he has a remarkable collection of eccentric characters to talk about as he charts his own (and their) gradual agiung from bright eager undergraduates, through productive middle age, to at least in the case of his principals, a rather sad ending. Overall I felt taht I got a really nice sense of both the place,the people, and a good bit of the science that was the focus of what was clewarly a magical place &amp; a magical time. I would reccomend this book to biologists and non-biologists alike esp. anyone who is lucky enough to be considering heading off for their own first summer at a Field Stationn.  -oh the illustrations nicvely complement the text &amp; overall this is a book to read, pass on &amp; get another copy of.	2003-06-28
US	52864495	R1PCG8DDI7B1PB	0140187448	168292418	The Log from the Sea of Cortez (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	92	97	N	Y	a real classic &amp; a great read	This is the book that really &quot;turned me around&quot; on Steinbeck.  I had been forced to read RED PONY &amp; THE PEARL in High School &amp; while I acknowledged Steinbeck's ability I found his subjects unbearably depressing.  LOG FROM THE SEA OF CORTEZ showed me another, funnier, more thoughtful, and more engaging Steibeck that then lead me to CANNERY ROW etc.  This is the so-called Narrative Portion of a much longer guidebook co-authored by Steinbeck &amp; Ed Ricketts that was simply called SEA OF CORTEZ and includes both illustrations and keys to the marine intertidal of Baja. The longer version is alas now long out of print &amp; a real collectors item. LOG it turns out is a mixture of an actual travel log as Ricketts, Steinbeck &amp; the crew of the Western Flyer wander in and out of the coves on the eastern side of the Baja peninsula, and also some philosophical essays by Ricketts that I gather actually pre-date th Cortez trip.  I have frequently assigned the Easter Sunday chapter to my students as an marvellous discourse on science &amp; scientists, but in fact the whole book is just that -we get a real sense of the joys &amp; follys of field ecology &amp; a wonderful look at an amazing piece of country before it was &quot;discovered&quot; and at least in part spoiled.  The book is like a wonderful conversation with two very very smart &amp; funny people &amp; one comes away having learned a great deal &amp; wishing one could have gone along on the original trip.	2003-06-26
US	52864495	ROVSYH0OPJGQ7	0066214122	245555180	Prey	Books	1	9	12	N	N	a nano-novel	By this stage anyone who picks up a Crichton novel should be well prepared for the formula: new technology full of hope & promise, unprincipled scientists/techno-freaks out to make a buck regardless of risk, ponderous hero who always intuits that \\"something isn't quite right here\\", technology runs amok, scary chase scene, hero wins out in spite of all odds, cautionary message bashing science & technology in wrap-up. I don't mind formulas when I am looking for an escapist novel & in the past Crichton has managed to throw in enough character development & believable science to keep me reading. Alas, PREY seems to have been written on the back of an airline safety card while stuck in a holding pattern over San Jose.  The characters are tissue thin, the dialog is unbelievable, and even the monster (a cloud of self-programming nano-particles that are supposed to be the Pentagon's next super spy camera but of course have ideas of their own) fails to grab our attention. I suppose that I should be grateful that we are spared much of the pseudo-philosophizing & gratuitous chaos-theory invocations that kept creeping into Crichton's 90's novels (we do get gratuitous fractals in PREY, but they are blessedly less obvious) but he still hates science & scientists & perhaps it is time to look for other villains? The pity is that nano-technology and self-organizing computer networks are indeed exciting & potentially scary new frontiers in technology & I feel that Crichton COULD have made an excellent novel around them (witness for instance his still provocative book on psycho-surgery: TERMINAL MAN, which even a quarter of a century later makes one pause & ponder. Here he simply doesn't have his mind on the job & resorts to what amount to B-horror movie cliches in place of real character or situation development. Ugh.	2003-06-23
US	52864495	R2O3KTCPR50HQD	096139210X	707128479	The Visual Display of Quantitative Information	Books	5	22	25	N	Y	I'd give it 6 stars if they'd let me....	Instead I give this book regularly to my students &amp; wish to goodness that more of my colleagues had copies.  From the opening pages -where Tufte gives us 4 data sets that are statistically indistinguishable but graphicly at different points of the compass- through the beautifully rendered examples of classical and modern examples of meaningful graphics &amp; &quot;chartjunk&quot; Tufte serves as a wry, witty, and informative guide to the perils &amp; joys of informing or confusing an audience with charts and graphs.<BR>Although in some ways a polemic against the misuse of graphical techniques, Tufte never loses his sense of humor &amp; gives us plenty of really GOOD examples as well as a harsh deconstruction of some truly horrendous images. While this, the first in what has become a series, predates the muddy dawn of computer graphical &quot;presentations&quot; the basic principles outlined in its pages are every bit as applicable to the PowerPoint generation as they were to transparencies &amp; posters. Buy it. read it Use it.	2003-06-14
US	52864495	RN7LIV4FADLCY	0195148304	704635275	In Darwin's Shadow: The Life and Science of Alfred Russel Wallace: A Biographical Study on the Psychology of History	Books	2	20	24	N	Y	The new phrenologists?	I bought this book rather in spite of than because of the other Amazon reviews, and lugged it with me on a flight out to the West Coast.  The book lasted from Boston to Atlanta, and when it was over I closed it with a sigh of relief.  While Shermer is certainly at times an engaging writer here he indulges in a rather peculiar form of quantitative psycho-history mixed in with the equally peculiar allocation of behavioural traits to birth order. There MAY be something in this somewhere, but at the same time it smacks of the 19th century Victorian fetish about cranial measurments that Shermer's evident hero-mentor Stephen Gould took to task in THE MISMEASURE OF MAN.  That Shermer is so obsessed with his methodologies (he devotes a substantial portion of the book to 'how he did it\\") is a shame because it lessens and weakens his focus on his putative topic, the fascinating Alfred Wallace. Instead of really delving intoWallace's background and early experiences we get a few pages of quick gloss intertwined with what frankly struck me as mumbo-jumbo about what it means to be a Younger Child. This may be all very new Age & Hip right now, but I strongly doubt it will prove to have much in the way of scholarly legs. Then there is the tedious re-hashing of Gould's speculations which other reviewers have already re-hashed.  Yup, they are old, they are trite, and can we please now move on?  Perhaps the most interesting part of the book is the discussion of Wallace's involvement with various \\"Spiritualist\\" frauds during the second half of his career. Here the writing really picks up & one has the sense that \\"aha, now we are going to get somewhere\\". Alas, the excitement soon fades & the book itself fades out to a gentle glow at the end.  i really don't know how to categorize this text.  It is far too incomplete for someone unfamiliar with Wallace's life & work to get a real sense of the man and it offers such an odd view on Wallace's relationships with friends, family, colleagues& rivals that one is left wondering just what was intended.  A footnote to a more general study? Maybe, but i agree with the reviewer who calls for the need of a REAL biography that puts Wallace AND his science in proper context.	2003-05-25
US	52864495	R2Z4SS77FZHVKE	0066212855	817493742	Krakatoa: The Day the World Exploded	Books	4	22	28	N	Y	A total hoot!	I greatly enjoyed this sly, somewhat disorganized, tongue in cheek discussion of perhaps-the-most-famous-volcanoe-yet. Winchester is clearly highly knowledgeable about various aspects of geology & writes in a way that made this layman really want to go out & learn more.  His endless tangents and footnotes were almost always entertaining and worthwhile forays into new knowledge, and while they did break up the stream of narrative at times they also served to humanize what is otherwise a truly Humongous event. The book does an excellent job with scale -one actually gets a sense of just how big things were, from explosions to tsunamis- and the eye-witness accounts of the aftermath of the eruption were truly horrific. Some of the early speculation on the possible impact of a pre-Krakatoa Krakatoa Event seemed to be on (dare I say it?) shaky ground, but when Winchester cuts to the know historical record of the eruption he seems rock solid. I felt that the attempt to \\"bring the book up to the present minute\\" by discussing the putative impact of Krakatoa  on the rise of Islamic extremism in Indonesia & the hint that the bombing in Bali last year might be yet another (cultural) aftershock of the eruption a bit forced (If you ever do a second edition Simon, I'd kill that whole chapter). These complaints aside I  frankly couldn't put the book down, went straight back to school & recommended it to my students & friends & will be watching for Winchester's next production with cheerful anticipation.	2003-05-25
US	52864495	R3BMSDVBXLMWF2	0786707216	33969659	The Spice Islands Voyage: The Quest for Alfred Wallace, The Man Who Shared Darwin's Discovery of Evolution	Books	4	3	6	N	Y	a pleasant look at a fascinating place &amp; person	I read this book as part of preparation for teaching my ISLAND LIFE course, which examines the role of islands in ecology, conservation and biogeography. Although not, as other reviewers have pointed out, a scientific treatise, Severin's VOYAGE is a very nice way to &quot;get into&quot; both the ecology of an amazing part of the globe (southern Indonesia) and the life and work of the truly amazing Alfred Russell Wallace.  While Severin can't refrain from some minor Darwin-bashing (Wallace, among MANY other contributions was the co-discoverer of Evolution by Natural Selection) he is much less nasty than some other popular authors, and (thank goodness) gets on with discussing both Wallace's travels in Malaysia and his own attempt to follow Wallace's path.  This makes for both fun story-telling &amp; some fascinating glimpses of a world that many of us will never get to see -tropical islands now all too endangered by the growth of modern &quot;civilization&quot;. With his keen interest in boats &amp; boat-building Severin takes us through the construction of the locally built craft that mimics the sort of boat that Wallace might have encountered more than 150 years ago &amp; also discusses regional forms of navigation &amp; seamanship.  I passed the book on to my historian father &amp; he was equally enthused. Overall a delightful read that will leave you hungry for more on Wallace &amp; Wallacia	2003-04-20
US	52864495	R3S8MD8QOYS1Q2	0684827123	635805839	The Song of the Dodo: Island Biogeography in an Age of Extinction	Books	2	41	70	N	Y	well-written but flawed	... As someone who has spent nearly a quarter of a century studying birds on islands I normally welcome new insights on the subject, especially when they are written in a comprehensible fashion that will appeal to a wide audience, and to give Quammen due credit he writes in an engaging style that draws his reader along.  Unfortunately the book is to my mind fatally flawed by the remarkably one-sided and one-dimensional approach that Quammen brings first to the subject of Darwin & Wallace (In his attempt to push Wallace he accepts without question any and all attacks upon Darwin) and secondly in his un-critical acceptance of MacArthur and Wilson's  \\"Equilibrium Theory of Island Biogeography\\".  The first is mean-spirited, un-needed, and on occasion downright nasty, the second is scientifically questionable & may do harm to the very causes that Quammen (and I for that matter) hold dear.<br />While Wallace WAS left out of the popular iconography for a good chunk of the 20th century he has since been widely re-habilitated, credited, anthologized, and discussed. His enormous contributions to biogeography rightly overshadow his role in the Natural Selection debate, and it is significant that he himself never in ANY way suggested that he thought ill of Darwin -in fact, quite the opposite.  Just who is Mr. Quammen to say otherwise?<br />As far as MacArthur and Wilson go, the idea was hardly original (significant portions of \\"their\\" theory had been published years earlier, a point that Quammen is either unaware of or chooses to ignore -odd, considering his attack on Darwin) the evidence presented was -to be kind- HIGHLY selective, and almost immediately the whole issue was immersed in controversy and critique. While Quammen acknowledges the controversy & even interviews some of the key players, he tends to dismiss the counter-arguments with ad hominem remarks or simply changes the subject. While  I applaud the amount of good science that the theory generated as irritable sceptics set to to rebut the whole notion of \\"equilibrium\\" and \\"turnover\\" the remarkable FAILURE of the \\"Equilibrium Theory\\" to address much of importance in conservation (it was NEVER even INTENDED to be applied to conservation of specific species)really isn't discussed in DODO. In summary, folks who have already made up their minds about conventional notions of ecology & conservation will find lots of \\"feel good\\" support here, but readers looking for a more comprehensive & critical viewpoint will have to go elsewhere.	2003-04-01
US	52864495	R33TTED041FVMZ	1583481117	484327776	Just Before the Origin: Alfred Russel Wallace's Theory of Evolution	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Interesting background, but an axe to grind	This is an interesting companion to reading Wallace in the original, and Brooks does a reasonably good job of portraying his subject, although more recent books e.g. Tim Severin's SPICE ISLANDS VOYAGE is perhaps more entertaining if more pop. More troubling is his almost personal vendetta against Charles Darwin, in which he sets out to \\"prove\\" that Darwin \\"stole\\" the idea of evolution by Natural Selection from Wallace -something that Wallace himself NEVER suggested or implied.  After an exhaustive search through shipping company records & an examination of the postal service (one must admire Brooks' zeal if not his motive)he is essentially back where he started: personally convinced but with a lot of speculation & one-sided interpretations of material. The sad part of this ... is that a) it takes away from Wallace's enormous contributions in a wide range of areas -he is responsible for most of the foundations of modern Biogeography for instance- b) it implies a craven motive for Wallace's supposed silence-in-the-face-of-persecution (Does Brooks REALLY think that someone so feisty & outspoken as Wallace, who took on everything from land reform to vaccination, would simply cave in to \\"The Establishment\\" over a matter of priority? c) ignores the real scope of Darwin's scholarship & d) smacks of sensationalism. This is silly.  Wallace was a marvellous man and a wonderful scientist.  Enjoy the first parts of this book & consign Brooks' idle speculations to where they belong: ...	2003-03-26
US	52864495	RDZEBLLKGLWPX	0141000031	846050314	The Sagas of Icelanders: (Penguin Classics Deluxe Edition)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Magnificent!	My historian Father sent me this after I made some sort of witless comment about Leif the Lucky, & when it arrived I was somewhat taken aback -it is HUGE, close to 800 pages if you include index & glossary-but once you dive in, it is hard to put it down.  Here we get the stories of the Viukings of the Northwest Atlantic -the Icelanders of the title plus the doomed expeditions to Greenland and Vineland-told in all their wild glory.  Of course one wishes one could read it in the original, of course one wishes to hear it sung, but this is the story of a real \\"other\\" history that all too often gets left out of the standard texts.  This collection contains 10 sagas and several Tales by different translators. While having a number of different folks doing the translation makes for a somewhat uneven \\"voice\\" overall I found myself slipping from saga to saga with no trouble. The book includes a nice introduction, several useful maps, plus some simple diagrams of Norse ships and buildings. Anyone with an interest in sea-farers and the history of the north would be well advised to hit their \\"one-click\\" buttons right now, then, as soon as the box comes, throw an extra log or two on the fire, pour yourself a flagon of the closest you can get to mead & kiss the rest of the day goodbye -you are in for a treat!	2003-03-24
US	52864495	R7VKF6A1H5HCF	155750492X	315790962	Nelson to Vanguard: Warship Design 1923-1945 (Chatham Pictorial Series)	Books	3	11	14	N	Y	Little Nelson, not much Vanguard	When I was small I inherited my Father's WONDER BOOK OF THE NAVY.  Written probably in the mid 1930's THE WONDER BOOK gave me a comprehensive overlook at a vanished fleet: lots of pictures, clear, comprehensive text covering every class of Royal Navy warship & all aspects of service life.  I get the feeling that Brown may have tried to do a WONDER BOOK for grown-ups, and if so he has failed. What we have here is a nice \\"coffee-table book\\" with lots of black and white photos of a broad range of ships, but there is little in-depth coverage of anything (the two title warships are particularly slighted -NELSON gets one shot-from-a distance and two partial photos, VANGUARD maybe three or four) Battleships as a whole get only 15 pages of text and photos, destroyers by contrast get 20. While it can certainly be argued that neither NELSON nor VANGUARD had particularly stellar service records, they did represent important (and at least in the case of NELSON, peculiar) examples of warship design, and it would have been nice to hera a good deal more about them.  Also missing from the text is any real discussion of the effectiveness and/or limitations of deign in action -we would have benefitted from hearing more about the fates of given warships. While there is a chapter on \\"battle damage\\" it tends to focus exclusively on physical damage to structures with little attention to crew or performance. Nowhere do I find much discussion of the human element, and, especially given the RN's remarkable ability to stay at sea for long periods under often hideous conditions it would have been very interesting to hear more about how the nature of the ships made this possible if not exactly \\"fun\\". The chapter on inter-war modification of existing ships is a real teaser -there are various coy references to what might or might not have been learned from WWI or post-war tests, but I felt that I would have to go elsewhere for any real understanding. Again, more detailed discussion of the fatesof specific ships would have been most instructive.  In summary: Interesting? yes. Comprehensive? by no means.	2003-03-23
US	52864495	R8EXOLONXF6IB	1854095242	961652541	King George V Class Battleships	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	An excellent summary of an interesting compromise	The King George V class battleships seem to have been a classic example of the dangers of \\"design by committee\\". Given the limitations of the Washington Disarmament Treaty and the constraints of tight budgets and an apathetic Parliament they were probably the best that Britain could have done at the time, and Tarrant has done a wonderful job of showing us the history of their development, their strengths and their weaknesses. He also points out that in spite of all their drawbacks & indeed the overall decline of battleships as weapons of war, the KGVs probably prevented Britain from losing the war.  Had PRINCE OF WALES not holed BISMARK in her fuel tanks, BISMARK would have continued into the North Atlantic & shut down the vital Atlantic convoy system. Had DUKE OF YORK not sunk SCHARNHORST a similar disaster could have been in the making.  No mean feat.  Lavishly illustrated -both in terms of text and photos- the book provides us with an in-depth look at the entire class & includes the often neglected stories of the later members ANSON & HOWE. My one quibble with the book -and it is really with the publisher- is that it has a somewhat \\"cheap' feel in terms of paper & cover. Given the quality of the content the book deserves more attention to physical structure, but battelship enthusiasts everywhere need this text on their shelves.  Now, wouldn't it be nice if Tarrant did the same sort of job on the QUEEN ELIZABETH class battleships (possibly the most successful group of warships yet built)  that he does here  on the KGVs?	2003-03-23
US	52864495	R3V0NB6Y0N3MNL	0375755241	436362016	The Brendan Voyage: Sailing to America in a Leather Boat to Prove the Legend of the Irish Sailor Saints (Modern Library Exploration)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	In the spirit of Kon Tiki	This is a delightful, fast read about a remarkable adventure -and a remarkable set of adventurers.  I had this book sitting on my &quot;to be read&quot; pile for months, then I picked it up, and, well, there went the next 3 hours....Severin has written a real page turner about his attempt to re-create the hypothetical voyage to the New World by an early Irish monk in an ox-hide boat. While Severin's success does not prove the legend, the modern story alone is worth the price of admission, and his discussion of boat-building techniques &amp; the trials and pitfalls that his team overcame make for a great book.	2003-03-14
US	52864495	RDRKJ4SFUMSFW	0312420919	420506191	Ways of Dying: A Novel	Books	5	25	27	N	N	A wonderful terrible book	WAYS OF DYING is one of the most fascinating novels that I have read in years.  The book is set in South Africa during a period that seems to span the end of the apartheid regime and focuses exclusively on the lives (and deaths) of poor South African Blacks in rural villages and urban shanty towns near what I suspect is Durban.  Fans of Marquez will feel very much at home here in a world of \\"magical realism\\", yet while Mda may have been influenced by novels like 100 YEARS OF SOLITUDE he has a voice that is uniquely his own, and one that I sense is profoundly rooted in Africa.  Mda's  \\"hero\\" is a self-declared Professional Mourner, who ekes out an existence at the edge of society.  Some aspects of his life are almost grotesque in form, and the deaths that surround him are often truly horrifying, yet somehow I found this a profoundly optimistic and human book.  In spite of the worst that the world can throw at him the Professional Mourner is able to transcend mere existence & by the end I was shamelessly rooting for him.  I should add that I used this book in a course on the Turn of the Century, and one of my toughest-case students, whom I had failed to excite with anything else, came into my office today saying \\"I just LOVE Mda\\" You will too,	2003-03-06
US	52864495	R39MBO9GQF60CL	0375508260	649819248	Paris 1919: Six Months That Changed the World	Books	5	3	5	N	N	a fascinating look behind the scenes	This is a remarkably intereresting, well-written, and timely book about a critical period in recent history.  Anyone interested in &quot;how we got to where we are&quot; in international politics would be well-advised to dig into this highly readable yet scholarly examination of the process and personalities that came together (or in some cases FAILED to come together) in Paris during that critical period.  As David Lloyd George's great grand-daughter Macmillan is in an interesting position vis a vis some of the key players at Versailles, yet while she does not disguise her interest in (and knowledge of) the real people in the photographs we get strikingly balanced portraits of most everyone without the vinidictive tittle-tattle &amp; sniping that has marred several other recent history texts. Macmillan is able to convey both the grand sweep of history and the very human foibles of her subjects in a way that keeps one turning the pages late into the night and coming away with a real sense of what happened, what could have happened &amp; what we might learn from what Churchill referred to all too prophetically as &quot;Not Peace, this is Armistice for 20 years&quot;.  One can only wish that the enthusiasts for the latest New World Order would read this book and ponder the fallibility of even the best of intentions	2003-02-25
US	52864495	R2Y9ZK5ZF4ILSZ	014043268X	788233504	The Voyage of the Beagle: Charles Darwin's Journal of Researches (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	28	30	N	N	Darwin's best	Forget the image of the grim, ancient, grey-bearded savant.  By the time those pictures were taken Darwin was long past his energetic prime. BEAGLE catches him literally starting out on his life-long voyage of discovery at a time when he was still extremely physically active and just beginning to come to grips with the seriousness of his interest in Natural History.  Later in life he said that the VOYAGE was his personal favorite of all his writings, and one can see why.  Darwin set off young, energetic, but frankly naieve & a little foolish (his father ahd written to him at Cambridge saying that he feared that he would never amount to much, and apart from his work with Henslow, much of his college career seems to have been devoted to what we would now call \\"partying hearty\\") He returned a seasoned naturalist and explorer, with the germ of his Great Idea firmly implanted.  While in many ways VOYAGE is describing a vanished world, Darwin's keen eye for detail renders each landscape with such clarity that one feels that one is really along for the trip -and, thank goodness, some of the places he went to are still there for us to go & wonder at.  There is no Big Theory here, just an enormous sense of wonder and excitement, with little of the periodic homesickness that shows up in the letters that he was writing during the voyage. Perhaps most intriguing is the remarkably SHORT section on the Galapagos -I remember thinking the first time that I read the VOYAGE \\"Wait, but wasn't the Galapagos THE Big Deal?\\" No, not to read it here in the original. One gets the sense that many of Darwins fundamental beliefs were already in gestation long before he left the coast of South America & by the time he gets to the Galapagos, he is increasingly anxious to be home & working it all out.  Make sure that you get a COMPLETE version of the Voyage, there are many editions (including abbridgements) out there.	2003-01-04
US	52864495	R3SKAIKWRO6BA7	0393310698	398190923	The Autobiography of Charles Darwin: 1809-1882	Books	4	64	66	N	Y	A must read for Darwin enthusiasts	Don't be put off by the rather grim portrait of Darwin that adorns this edition -and be aware that there are SEVERAL editions of the AUTOBIOGRAPHY, including a somewhat &quot;censored&quot; one in which Darwin's wife took out bits that she didn't like -perhaps the most interesting editions are the ones that put these bits back in but italicize or bold them so that you can get a sense of what wasn't &quot;proper&quot; in Emma's mind. This is by no means a definitive Life of Darwin (for that I strongly encourage you to read Janet Brown's excellent 2 part series)but it does give us a gentle portrait of Darwin as he saw himself in late middle age, and it has provided lots of grist for the historians &amp; psychohistorians in their speculations about what Darwin felt about religion, his parents, etc. For my part it only reinforces my impression of a truly wonderful man who was constantly puzzled in a pleasant way with the diversity of life &amp; living, and while he may have had personal demons to grapple with (don't we all?) he was still able to enjoy both his science and his friends and his family. It is primarily this enjoyment that I walk away with after reading this book. Oh yes, the grim portrait on the cover. I doubt that Darwin thought of himself like that, he was FUN, and I think he mostly HAD fun, apart from the periodic bouts with illness. My favorite &quot;portrait&quot; of Darwin is the fantasy picture of  young Chas &quot;hanging out&quot; in high top sneakers that adorns Phil Darlington's too-long-out-of-print EVOLUTION FOR NATURALISTS.	2003-01-01
US	52864495	R1VQI2A276R5P3	047104783X	910101643	Evolution for Naturalists: The Simple Principles and Complex Reality	Books	5	5	5	N	N	if you can find it, buy it	This, Phil Darlington's last book, is an eloquent \\"summing up\\" of many of the principles of Natural Selection and evolution as presented by one of the titans of the Great Age of Biogeography.  Darlington was born into an age of fixed, stable continents & lived to see his entire world view overthrown by Continental Drift, yet he seems to see this upheaval as an enormous relief -one that took care of many troubling inconsistencies that had bothered him as a biologist.  In E. For N. he turns his writing skills to showing how Darwin & Wallace's theory can help make sense of an enormous range of issues in ecology and natural history. The final chapter, which revolves around the then-very-new Sociobiology controversy is a remarkably gentle but authoritative call for both sides to stop bickering and get on with doing science.  It is a shame that this book is out of print & it is well worth your time if you are interested in evolutionary biology from the perspective of someone who revelled in \\"facts on the ground\\"  and lucky enough to stumble upon it.	2003-01-01
US	52864495	R2XDL1Q5L49EJO	0884482316	445048615	Snow Squall: The Last American Clipper Ship	Books	5	6	6	N	N	a love story	Somewhere about two thirds of the way through this book I put it down &amp; said to myself &quot;these people are crazy!&quot; Then I picked it up again and said &quot;But Gosh, I wish I could have been there&quot;.  A good chunk of the book is background to clipper ships in general  &amp; specifically the history of the &quot;last American Clipper&quot; but there is also the riveting account of a group of &quot;crazies&quot; who find the remains of SNOWSQUALL abandoned and rotting at a dock in the South Atlantic and do their best to save at least part of her for a maritime museum back in the States.  That they succeed (at least in part) frankly left me a little teary-eyed. Those of you who aren't at least a little bit &quot;odd&quot; when it comes to Tall Ships may say &quot;why bother?&quot; My guess is that after reading this book you may begin to understand.  For those of us who already have the disease, you will be rooting for the authors and their friends the whole way.  Nicely written, nicely illustrated, a real &quot;keeper&quot;.	2002-12-31
US	52864495	R35Y0G249T6SR7	1931520003	574971878	Stranger Things Happen: Stories	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Yes they do...	...but I'd rather they didn't to me!  This very odd collection of very odd stories was presented to me by a student who knows my weakness for the weird because she &quot;wanted to know what I thought of it&quot;.  Well.  I don't regret reading the book, but I fear I may have nightmares about some of the chapters for a while to come.  Some of these stories are quite funny, others almost heartbreaking, all of them have a real &quot;edge&quot; to them that keeps you turning pages while at the same time feeling that you probably don't want to be caught with this book. Who will like this?  Fans of Roald Dahl almost certainly, there is the same use of a &quot;kicker&quot; at the end of several stories that makes you say &quot;OmiGosh, I can't believe an author would do THAT to his/her characters...&quot; Who else? There is more than a hint of a sort of modern &quot;film noir&quot; tone, I can see these stories very easily in black &amp; white rather than in colour. Beyond that, it is hard to say.  IF you get into the book it will be easy to finish it, but there may be a threshold of weirdness here that will shut out a lot of people.  DON'T read this late at night and at home alone, there is a sort of horror attached that is much more effective than that found in more popular authors.	2002-12-31
US	52864495	R3PEJF1N7YYIAA	0226437264	381889066	Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology (Science and Its Conceptual Foundations)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An excellent starting point...	...for anyone interested in the history and development of Population Biology. It is a real shame that this book has gone out of print (and that Kingsland hasn't chosen to do a second edition)as this relatively short (267pp) book captured the really important trends and ideas of mathematical ecology up to the early 1970's in straight-forward and remarkably non-technical language.  Kingsland gives us both the theories and the background and personalities that generated the theories, along with some delightful portraits of the Heavy Hitters during this seminal period in theoretical ecology.  She ends with MacArthur &amp; one would like to think that enough has happened since then that a sequel is in order, but I would recommend this book to any advanced undergrad or first-year grad student looking for background material.	2002-12-27
US	52864495	RIL9130RABUI4	1567920640	575618634	Secret Water (Swallows and Amazons, No 8)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Not my favorite S&A, but...	..not at all bad.  SECRET WATER finds our heroes & heroines very much in the process of Growing Up, with the inevitable tensions that late adolescence brings. Here we find the Swallows grimly determined to carry out a mapping task that their father has set them, and confronting the Amazons, who would rather ally themselves with local children who have their own \\"game\\" of tribal warfare among the marshes of the East Coast. There is a lot of good stuff here & some high adventure, and the book reads very \\"true\\" to the series.  My daughter Clare regards it as one of the best, and I doubt that anyone will be disappointed with either the plot or the outcome.	2002-12-27
US	52864495	RFL9YA5HWJ20Z	0195097866	971389137	Do Lemmings Commit Suicide?: Beautiful Hypotheses and Ugly Facts	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Grand old man of Ecology looks back	This book, part autobiography, part critical assessment of the last fifty years in field ecology, represents a fascinating &quot;summing up&quot; of a lifetime career in pursuit of explanations for the abundance of animals in the wild.  Chitty is remarkably candid about his own successes and failures, and one sees with clarity the attitude of a good scientist: no hypothesis, however elegant, is immune from &quot;ugly little facts&quot; that refute it. Along with Chitty's own work we get delightful cameo appearances (both flattering and otherwise) of many of the &quot;greats&quot; of mid-century ecology and evolutionary theory. Chitty makes it quite clear who he resepects and who he has difficulties with, and his commentary serves to humanize the &quot;doing&quot; of ecology. My only question is, how long will it take for the common sense shown in this book to penetrate contemporary text-books, many of which persist in errors that Chitty ably shows have been discarded by real practicioners often decades ago.	2002-12-24
US	52864495	R5U3QLLOBYVZ4	0345375564	836091346	Dreadnought: Britain, Germany, and the Coming of the Great War	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Highly readable popular history	Folks who would like history to be an impersonal sweep of Great Movements and Significant Trends will doubtless dislike Massie's treatise on the Anglo-German naval arms race and the coming of the Great War. In contrast, for those of us who believe that history has a face (and often a street address) this is a fascinating and highly informative discussion of a critical period in world history. Massie stresses the very personal nature of power politics in pre-war Europe -something that I suspect modern readers (and reviewers)born into an age of \\"focus groups\\" and party politics may tend to discount.  Before 1918 much of the power in Europe (and by extension the rest of the world) was wielded by a handful of individuals, many of whom were closely related. Victoria's children and grandchildren were alas NOT one big happy family, and Massie shows us how suspected slights and jealousies propelled whole governments towards foolish decisions.  The creation of the German High Seas Fleet was largely the product of the Kaiser's feeling that he was being snubbed by his Uncle (Edward VII). Any pretence that this fleet was NOT aimed at contesting Britain in the North Sea is disproved by the decision to emphasize armor and internl compartmentalization within the German capital ships at the cost of cramped quarters and limited fuel storage that made the ships unlivable (and un-navigable) for more than a few days. As Massie shows, Wilhelm's decision to build a massive short-range fleet was opposed by many of his own ministers and ultimately ensured that Britain and Germany would come to blows. It would have been interesting if Massie had chosen to give us more of a \\"postscript\\" -what actually happened to this enormous expenditure of capital and energy- rather than ending things with the outbreak of war, but for that one need only look at the many books analyzing the battle of Jutland etc.	2002-12-24
US	52864495	R3BMB2S6EBHD5A	0141181656	262067379	The Riddle of the Sands	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Always a delight	This book has been described to me both as &quot;the best Yachting Book written&quot; and &quot;The book that saved Britain&quot;.  Written in part as a wake-up call to the British Public at the turn of the last century -Childers (no stranger to Whitehall politics) was terrified that existing British strategy left the country wide open to an invasion from Germany- and in part as a celebration of a lifelong passion for boats and boating, the book &quot;works&quot; brilliantly. Even non-yachting enthusiasts will be drawn into the story, and those of us who have worked our way along a foggy coast by chart and compass will appreciate Childers' attention to detail and faithfulness to his subject.   Overall I found the two principal characters well drawn, but the Germans are a bit cartoonish, and the hint of Romance towards the end was an un-needed distraction, other than that, this is a quite-un-put-downable novel of adventire &amp; daring that MAY just have changed the course of history.	2002-12-24
US	52864495	R3DH4H68XH0PWK	0805068848	593111837	A Peace to End All Peace: The Fall of the Ottoman Empire and the Creation of the Modern Middle East	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	an essential backgrounder to the present	I read this book as part of preparation to teach a class on the \\"turn of the century\\". I was already somewhat familiar with the events that lead up to the creation of the modern Middle East, but I have never previously found such a concise yet multi-faceted review of the critical thirty years at the begiining of the 20th Century that literally set the stage for many of the traumas that we are currently facing. What I most appreciate about Fromkin's writing is that he largely avoids lumping people and peoples together into homogenous monoblocks, thus, rather than simply talking about \\"the British\\" he acknowledges that there were many sides to British (or French or Arab or Turkish etc.) interests in the mid-east, and that quite often these sides undermined each other, failed to communicate, or simply ignored the \\"facts on the ground\\". The tensions between and differing aims of the Vice-regal government in India and Parliament in London have often been left out of policy discussions, and Fromkin does us a service by reminding us of the somewhat haphazard nature of the British Empire even at its moment of triumph. While this is not the ONLY book one should read on this crucial period in history (I agree with the reviewer who suggests greater attention to Turkish sources) this is a great starting place, and you will find many of the dilemmas that are facing governments in London and Washington in 2002 frighteningly similar to dilemmas facing London, Paris, and Delhi in 1918.  Would that one felt that our leaders today were reading books like this. ...	2002-12-20
US	52864495	R2YSRC37QJR6K4	0472064754	719584106	Period Piece (Ann Arbor Paperbacks)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	a wonderful window into an amazing family	Darwin fanatics and Jane Austen fans will gobble up this delicious dessert. Written by Darwin's grandaughter (Raverat was George's daughter born too late to know her illustrious grandfather personally)PERIOD PIECE contains both a wealth of Family Stories that helps humanize the usual image of the Great Victorian Sage and some real (although often tongue-in-cheek) insights into Late-Victorian/Edwardian Society. As Raverat says in the Preface, the book doesn't really have a beginning or an end, it is easily dipped-in-to at any point &amp; you will have to be totally lacking in a sense of humor not to come away both charmed &amp; informed.	2002-12-19
US	52864495	RHUDO77C3NHZ0	0618119809	287334405	A Tortoise for the Queen of Tonga: Stories	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	a delight	I had this collection of short stories thrust on me by one of my favorite ex-students when I was complaining that &quot;there was nothing new good to read&quot;. She told me to stop whining &amp; give it a try &amp; I am VERY glad that she did. From the funny-but-heart-wrenching title piece to the wonderful portrait of Darwin in heaven (he is doing just fine until he is joined by a totally Tiggerish Richard Feynman!) Whitty never misses a beat. I read the whole book in one sitting &amp; am waiting for more with some impatience. These are short stories for Thinking People who still have a sense of humor!	2002-12-19
US	52864495	RV2SM7693VCFC	0060934417	546555129	Bel Canto	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	A wonderful parable for our New Century	No, its not \\"real\\" nor is it intended to be. Rather, BEL CANTO serves as both a magical journey into a \\"possible world\\" and a cautionary tale of what happens when we encounter too much reality. Patchett uses the framework of a terrorist take-over of the Vice-Presidential Palace of an un-named-country-that-is clearly-Peru as a way of exploring the result of people faced with the completely unexpected (the guests thought they were getting six arias and dinner, the terrorists thought they were getting the President, the Vice President thought he was getting a Factory...) and being given the opportunity to act in a world that is completely cut off from their every day lives. Patchett mixes comic relief (The President misses the party because he wants to watch his favorite soap opera) with stark brutality (The Vice President gets pistol-whipped) while introducing us to an amazing array of highly sophisticated & interesting characters. You don't have to love opera (I for one can't stand it) to understand why things fall out as they do & by the end you will be rooting for the whole cast, while knowing that -no, I won't spoil the ending, You'll have too much fun getting there, but after it is all over don't be surprised if you find yourself re-assessing much of what you thought you \\"knew\\" about everything from music to politics.	2002-12-15
US	52864495	R3NW6YO9Y2CXJ4	0201154870	715906672	Walking Towards Walden: A Pilgrimage in Search of Place	Books	3	5	6	N	N	A thoroughly irritating book	Let me start by saying that I am a big fan of Mitchell, and I really enjoyed CERMONIAL TIME. This lead me to look forward to the arrival of WALKING... and at one level I was not disappointed. AS in all his work Mitchell is adept at weaving together diverse strands of history, culture, and place and to get us thinking about the landscape in new ways. His taste in friends (or at least his way of introducing us to his friends) however seems somewhat flawed. While his other books are more solitary ruminations on ideas and areas, in WALKING he brings along two annoying Yuppies, who would serve as comic relief if any was needed. One is an incredibly PC Indian Wannabe, the other is the sort of Birder that gets some of us reaching for the shotgun, between them they serve only to distract the reader from what would otherwise be a pleasant cross-country ramble through a landscape made all the more interesting by Mitchell's knowledge of both recent history and geological \\"deep time\\". Overall Mitchell is at his best when he talks about the dead or the non-human, he can be downright cruel in his descriptions of the living people that he encounters as he approaches Concord. For all that I can sympathize with Mitchell's obvious concern for the rampant development that he must deal with  I am not sure that this sort of meaness towards folks who may well be Fellow Travellers (in several senses of the word) does the story much good. In spite of my criticism this is probably a stroll worth taking though you may want to stuff two of your companions into a cedar swamp!	2002-12-12
US	52864495	RG2SAY4SVZ0EP	0374512973	21574150	Oranges	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Good &amp; good for you	Every time someone asks me about John McPhee (I am, I admit a total fan) I find myself saying &quot;Look, Here is a guy who can take a subject like, say ORANGES, and make it fascinating.&quot;  This is the book where he does just that. I gather that ORANGES started out as a short magazine piece &amp; like so many of McPhee's books became an obsession. Here we can get the history, the ecology, the landscape of orange groves along with discussions of the effects of oranges and orange growing on both the culture and the surroundings, all in McPhee's eminently readable prose. This is a fast read about a subject that you probably haven't though much about, but you will walk away from this book not only better informed about the fruit but also taken with the infinite possibility of the wonder that can be found in what seem to be every-day things.	2002-12-06
US	52864495	R23MA9JHBDKNTB	0198503369	703609298	Narrow Roads of Gene Land, Volume 2: Evolution of Sex	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A brilliant sequel...	...marred only by the untimely death of the author. Volume Two focuses on the second half of the extraordinary career of the MOST extraordinary W.D. Hamilton. The papers presented here are almost without exception key components of much of what many of us regard as an appropriate evolutionary approach to the origins of sex, kinship, disease response etc. and the book would be worth having just to get all of these in a convenient bound form instead of the dog-eared xeroxes that doubtless clog up many of your files. Beyond that however we also get more of hamilton's delightful insights into just how he came up with an idea, who he was talking to, where he was while he was working on a concept, what he thought of a piece of work years later, etc. etc, -in other words all the \\"gossip\\" that when you know it makes science a real human endeavor, and when it is left out tends to leave many of us cold. Above all else one gets the sense that here was someone who was without question a genius, but was also a lovely person as well -someone with a sense of humor and a sense of his own mortality, who at the same time could revel in the sheer beauty of an idea, or the notion of life as a cosmic joke that must nonetheless be taken seriously. Anyone who is interested in the DOING of science as well as the content would be well advised to browse through this book. The intro by Dawkins is frankly skippable, but the rest? Sheer joy!	2002-12-04
US	52864495	R146586M080U1I	0195130618	753905499	Natural Selection and Social Theory: Selected Papers of Robert Trivers (Evolution and Cognition Series)	Books	5	33	35	N	Y	Yippee!!!	Those of us who are interested in the stories behind just HOW major breakthroughs in evolutionary and ecological thought were made have been spoiled in recent years: First there was W.D. Hamilton's marvelous 2 volume NARROW ROADS OF GENE LAND, now we get Bob Triver's wonderful NATURAL SELECTION AND SOCIAL THEORY. Here, in one place, one can find most of Trivers' revolutionary work on the evolution of social behavior, and as an added bonus one also gets Trivers' unvarnished -and often highly entertaining- commentary on just how he came to put together the ideas that -love 'em or hate 'em- provided much of the driving force behind Sociobiology & ultimately lead to Behavioural Ecology and Evolutionary Psychology. Along the way we are introduced to a fascinating cast of characters, ranging from Ernst Mayr, the foremost living Darwinian, through the neo-Marxist wing of Harvard, to Huey Newton, ex-Minister of Defense for the Black Panthers. Trivers' thinking is as eclectic and far ranging as the list of his friends and enemies, and while many of his subjects (altruism, parent-offspring conflict, fluctuating asymmetry, etc.) are still at the cutting edge of evolutionary thought, his writing is sufficiently free of jargon that I think it will draw in even the non-specialist. You may not agree with everything that Trivers says here -and I suspect that some folks will be offended by his candor- but this is a really important book & I see it as essential reading for any of us interested in the question of why we may do so many of the things that we do. Bravo!	2002-11-29
US	52864495	R2H437I5BU78UY	0871138425	77869369	A Storm in Flanders: The Ypres Salient, 1914-1918: Tragedy and Triumph on the Western Front	Books	3	21	21	N	N	A highly readable introduction	One can't really say that one &quot;enjoyed&quot; a book devoted to one of the most protracted and bloody sequences of battles in a truly terrible war, but I certainly found myself moving through Groom's book with an interest and a speed that I hadn't encountered in many other &quot;histories&quot;.  From the outset Groom makes it clear that he is NOT interested in writing a &quot;definitive history&quot; rather he wants to introduce a new -and primarily American-audience to an aspect of World War I that seems to have faded from public knowledge.  In this I think he succeeds brilliantly. That being said, I do have some serious quibbles with the book.  First of all, I never felt that we really got much insight into what the generals and politicians were thinking or how they rationalized four years of slaughter. We get periodic references to tension between French &amp; Haig, Haig and Lloyd George, etc. but Groom never really discusses the cause of these tensions in any detail, nor does he emphasize the often tragic outcomes of staff-level disagreements. The strength of the book is really in the middle, where Groom settles in to describe the horror of trench warfare and the period from 1915-1916.  Both the beginning and the end of the book have a feeling of being &quot;rushed&quot;.  I am not sure how well a reader unfamiliar with any background material will do dealing with the events leading up to the battle, and by the time we get to Passchendale one gets the feeling that Groom is as exhausted as the armies involved -the final (and ultimately decisive) battles are covered in a handful of pages &amp; while Groom quotes various authorities as to their importance, his own description leaves me feeling vaguely disappointed. I appreciated the &quot;what happened to them all&quot; section at the end, it must have been amazing to have gone through Ypres as a young man and to then have lived into one's nineties, long after the whole political &amp; social systems that onehad fought for (and against) had disappeared!  In all I would encourage readers who have never studied the First World War to perhaps use this book as part of a general jumping-off point, you will need to read additional texts to cover even the Western Front, but Groom has done a major service by providing a taste of a ghastly, tragic, and, yes, heroic episode in military history	2002-11-27
US	52864495	R1YVDFC5OMLDI4	0399149155	249229548	Q is for Quarry: A Kinsey Millhone Novel	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Grafton is back on form!	Several years ago a colleague introduced me to the &quot;Alphabet Murders&quot; while we were both trapped at a Faculty Retreat.  It proved to be the most long-lasting element of THAT Retreat -I confess to having read all the Sue Grafton I can find since then.  In spite of my enthusiasm, I had begun to fear that Kinsey Milhone wasn't going to age well.  In the last few books Grafton seemed to spend too much time with peripheral characters &amp;/or Kinsey's difficult family &amp; not enough on the actual mystery.  I found myself getting very tired of the Adorable Henry, Henry's Brothers, the Mad Cook, etc.  Wisely Grafton chose to ship all of the above off on a cruise for this novel and brought in two new &amp; highly appealing characters in the form of aging &amp; disgruntled police detectives intent on solving an old case that has bothered them professionally for twenty years.  In a brand new spin, we find that Milhone/Grafton is actually investigating a REAL unsolved crime that had occurred near Santa Barbara years previously. It is possible that the &quot;reality&quot; of the case is what makes the first half of the book go rather slowly (reality sometimes DOES go slowly) but I didn't really mind, Grafton had given me some interesting  new folks to get to know, and Kinsey was grappling more effectively with her past than it seemed she could do in earlier episodes. The second half of the book picks up the pace, perhaps a bit too much.  I found the ending a bit forced (no, I WON'T tell you WhoDunnit!) and a bit too tidy, but overall I am back looking forward to R rather than wondering if I can be bothered to make it through the alphabet. A nice read for a cold snowy afternoon or a long car ride!	2002-11-27
US	52864495	R2FEBJVPGN3V2Y	0385501161	956263277	Until the Sea Shall Free Them: Life, Death, And Survival In The Merchant Marine	Books	3	4	6	N	N	A fast read,  on an all too timely topic, but.....	Predictably THE PERFECT STORM has generated a whole industry of wannabes, and while this book clearly lodges in that category it is still a story worth being told. Other reviewers have already said what that story is, I am afraid that I have to agree with the Publisher's Weekly review regarding the style: \\"purple prose\\" is about it. This is NOT \\"investigative Journalism\\" & to be honest I don't know how to characterize the mixture of fact & projected personality that the book serves up. From the title on in Frump seems hell-bent on giving us the most melodramatic spin on whatever is going on, whether it is the post-Junger-obligatory \\"This is how it feels to die of (fill in the blank)\\" page or the court-room scenes, where his characterizations were downright embarassing. All that being said, I finished the book in three sittings & came away sadder, a little wiser, and with a bunch of questions for my ex-Coast-Guard Father in Law. Frump is doing a major service by drawing our attention to an on-going \\"crime-of-omission\\" that has been going on far too long.   My advice would be to skim over the bits where he trys to get too  \\"up close & personal\\" and concentrate on the larger story, which is in desperate need of telling & re-telling. Frump's attempt to end on a positive note is unfortunately undermined by breaking news. The author leaves us thinking that well, at least many of the outdated ships that he is writing about have now been scrapped. Rather, it would seem that they simply moved off-shore, as the break-up of a 26 year old tanker off the coast of Spain earlier this week can only highlight. Fortunately in that case the crew were saved, but the environmental disaster will go on and on....	2002-11-22
US	52864495	R2GM67QOGU4OF8	0679776877	237601957	An Empire Wilderness: Travels into America's Future	Books	2	13	17	N	Y	Kaplan in a new element-  Blue, but Blue Highways it ain't!	I have very much enjoyed Robert Kaplan's books on the Balkans and the Near East, so when I saw that he had written a book on travels in the United States I immediately sent off for it. Unfortunately this book  ultimately proved disappointing. Kaplan is continuing his thesis that the collapse of the bi-polar world will lead to almost inevitable break-up and &quot;Balkanization&quot; everywhere &amp; here he includes the U.S. with a vengeance. While the book contains a number of telling examples, Kaplan's travels are by no means random or exhaustive, and after a while one gets a sense that he is deliberately seeking out areas and peoples that fit with his thesis, rather than really giving us a portrait of America at the turn of the century. Unlike his books on the East, I did NOT get a sense that Kaplan was really &quot;up&quot; on the history of many of the places he visited, there was a lack of depth &amp; a bit too much &quot;Kaplan the tourist&quot; to satisfy me. I also found his frequent editorial interjections annoying &amp; distracting (&quot;I didn't actually go there, then, I went somewhere else, but it seemed to work better for the story if I moved that piece around&quot;) Just DO it.  Talking about why you did it raises the obvious question &quot;would things have been diferent if you HAD followed your narrative sequence rather than the route you actually took?&quot; BUT we don't get an answer to the question. In the end I don't really see any &quot;answers&quot; coming out of this book. If you are already a bit depressed about the State of the Union &amp; want to be REALLY depressed, this might be the perfect book for you, otherwise, give it a miss.	2002-10-22
US	52864495	R3MOBUHA91MZ83	0679429328	701258128	Charles Darwin:The Power of Place	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Hurrah Hurrah!	...and about time too! When Janet Browne left us nearly seven years ago after her brilliant Volume 1 of Darwin's life, she left us more or less literally on edge. Darwin was back from his Voyage, settled outside of London, ruminating on everything from pigeons to barnacles, and just about to be forced by the timely arrival of Wallace's manuscript to blow the doors off Victorian science.  And then... and then... we waited &amp; waited.  Now Volume 2 is here &amp; I am happy to report that it is just as good if not better than Vol. 1.  Browne may have left her readers, but she didn't leave Darwin -she has been an associate editor for the complete Darwin correspondance- and this undoubtably is part of the reason that she has been so successful in capturing both Darwin the Legend &amp; Darwin the Person. Browne's scholarship and enthusiasm allows one to get a real sense of both time and place, and what a Time &amp; what a Place! Here we have heroes and villains, a galaxy of scientific stars &amp; ordinary people swirling around this remarkable man walking in his garden &amp; engaged in his lifelong quest for what he aptly called the Mystery of Mysteries: the Origin of Species. What I also enjoy is that this isn't a simple hagiography, one sees Darwin warts and all, but without any of the &quot;psychohistorical&quot; second guessing that has spoiled a number of other biographies for me.  Picking up this book was like resuming a wonderful conversation right where one left off years ago.  If you read just one biography of Darwin (or if you have read lots!)  this is it, you are in for a treat!	2002-10-22
US	52864495	R2L3B79318L8IM	0312290276	548211395	The Smoke: A Creeping Narrative	Books	2	3	10	N	N	A cute premise, but the joke soon wears thin	I liked the idea of this book - a bright cockney thief in 1947 gets blackmailed into working for British Intelligence to steal Russian secrets -but Broadbent's constant \\"nudge, nudge, wink, wink\\" attitude becomes increasingly annoying as the book runs on. The principle characters rapidly become cartoons -and not very believable ones at that. Somehow in the course of a stint in a \\"college\\" in Southhampton?? & four years in the Merchant Marine??? the supposed Cockney hero Jethro has become a cultural snob, endlessly piling on the bon mots & never ever losing his cool -as he observes the villain getting his face sliced off while being simultaneously roasted to death, Our Hero (who has himself just been horribly tortured)of course has an appropriate Shakespeare quote to hand. I DON'T think so! Seth The Sidekick is equally unbelievable as an unbeatable Master of Marshal Arts, always there Just In The Nick Of Time. It would appear that Broadbent has read a slough of what used to be called \\"Penny Dreadfuls\\", later \\"Shilling Shockers\\" & now, with inflation, doubtless \\"Pound Pummelers\\" in any case cheap trashy stories for thirteen year old boys & has tried to move the genre into the 21st Century while keeping his characters in the mid-20th. (there is also more than a hint of Monty Python envy in this book, but the Pythons knew when to get in a zinger & when to shut up)  I have a horrible suspicion that this is intended to be the first of a series.  Please Mr. Broadbent, if this is your Evil Plan work on character development & realism & make up your mind just who these fellows ARE!	2002-10-20
US	52864495	RWSH0U1YHGALZ	0375726403	340719393	Empire Falls	Books	3	3	8	N	N	An ok Beach Read...	..but nothing we haven't heard before or will remember very long after.  I am actually surprised at the fuss that has been made over this book, as it doesn't really break any new ground and the last 25 pages have all the hallmarks of an impatient editor saying \\"hey, c'mon, enough already, kill 'em all off or whatever but WRAP IT UP\\" This leads to a more or less completely unbelieveable \\"happy ending\\" that frustrates as much as it resolves. That being said, I had no problems reading & finishing the book, and students who come from towns that are very similar to Empire Falls say that they are, well, similar to Empire Falls, so if you are looking for an apt description of local colour in Mid-Maine, look no further, but Great Literature? I don't think so.	2002-10-05
US	52864495	R2MN96MH7UUOSZ	0141180633	167202132	Vineland (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Where they went when the record was over	This book marks something of a stylistic step backward for Pynchon, I find it much more reminiscent of CRYING OF LOT 49 than say GRAVITY'S RAINBOW, but, hey, I LIKED CRYING... &amp; I like this.  There is the same combination of entertaining characters, impossible-but-weirdly-believable situations, and more than a hint of paranoia that keeps one turning the pages.  Enthusiasts for the 1960's &amp; the notion of &quot;hippy purity&quot; will probably be annoyed by Pynchon's cynicism, but I think at the heart of the book Pynchon is asking an important question about the whole notion of &quot;meaning&quot; in terms of how the Woodstock Generation could have been a prelude to Reagan/Bush rather than a real positive &quot;revolution&quot; in human relations. Unlike Gravity's Rainbow, most folks will find VINELAND a fast read with a clear begiining, middle &amp; end &amp; while it isn't the sort of break-through in style that earlier Pynchon represents, it is well worth a read. Hmm, I wondr. In some ways GRAVITY'S RAINBOW was an elaboration on V. and in the same senseVINELAND is an elaboration of LOT 49, so where does that put Mason &amp; Dixon?	2002-08-25
US	52864495	R1VVNDY4XEXC3R	1557509719	663530006	The Rules of the Game: Jutland and British Navel Command	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Quite un-put-downable!	This is a big fat book, and when the box arrived, I rather wondered when I would get to it. Once I started though, I found I couldn't stop,  Gordon has an engaging style that takes us through even the technical details of warship design and capabilities with remarkable flair. From the outset it is clear that this is NOT just about Jutland, but rather the book uses Jutland as a way of examining Naval Command structure as a whole. Thus it is no real shock when we suddenly shift from the 5th Battle Squadron's delayed turn away from the High Seas Fleet to a discussion of the development of the Victorian Navy. We don't get back to the battle for 250 pages, but by that time we have a much better sense of who the players are, what sort of background they are bringing to the situation, and what sort of legacy they are likely to leave.<br />Of great interest is Gordon's application of the lessons (un)learned at Jutland to the present.  While at first glance it seems hard to imagine the relevance of a battle fought nearly 90 years ago with Battleships to todya's electronic wars with &quot;robo-cruisers&quot; but Gordon makes some telling points about the need for both command independence and integration. I would STRONGLY recommend this book as a follow on to Massie's excellent DREADNAUGHT, which took us from the end of the 19th century up to the outbreak of the Great War.  Gordon takes us further back and further forward, and the result is a remarkable achievement.	2002-08-25
US	52864495	R3NE2NO788WSBQ	0743422910	769417678	The Constant Gardener	Books	5	4	5	N	N	as real as the Sunday Times	I read this just when the scandal over the big pharmaceuticals trying to shut down South Africa was breaking, and found myself turning pages feverishly to try &amp; find out how much LeCarre knew &amp; when he knew it.  This is probably his best (and most heartbreaking) novel since the end of the cold war. Read it. Get mad. Read it again. Then go and DO something. LeCarre has used the medium of &quot;fiction&quot; to highlight an enormous crime - a crime that we in the North benefit from and partake in on an almost daily basis. A lot of you are going to hate this novel. A lot of you are going to disbelieve it. Do some research. This is a story that HAD to be told &amp; probably only COULD be told as fiction by a master of fiction.	2002-06-24
US	52864495	RRKWYNIVVCO16	0060930217	233688105	V. (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Perfect Pynchon	I go back and forth between whether V. or Gravity's Rainbow is my favorite, but if you want to get &quot;into&quot; Pynchon &amp; found Crying of Lot 49 a little tame, go for V. next. here is Pynchon in full flight, jumping effortlessly between the 1950's New York Jazz scene, Europe at the very begining of the 20th Century, the 20's, the 40's... a real time machine.  The characters are wonderfully drawn, with nary a bad egg among them. Like Gravity's Rainbow, you can dip into this bok anywhere and come away with something fascinating,and there are in fact novellas within the novel,  but it is worth beginning at the beginning and working your way through to the end. Insiders will chuckle at the presence of characters and organizations who will return in other Pynchon settings, but V. easily stands by itself.	2002-06-24
US	52864495	R1WULZQVNII2Y2	0140188592	468027632	Gravity's Rainbow (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	12	15	N	N	my favorite Pynchon...	...and one of my favorite novels, period. One of my students came to me the other day asking for a \\"significant\\" novel to round out a tutorial on the History of the Novel & the only trouble I had was deciding between GRAVITY'S RAINBOW and V. She is very very smart, so I suggested GRAVITY'S RAINBOW. I am sure the Literature folks out there will chide me for dismissing Joyce, and perhaps there couldn't have BEEN a Pynchon without Joyce, but now that we have Pynchon perhaps we can admit that Joyce is unreadable by most of us while Pynchon -to corrupt a line from V.- \\"plays all the notes that Joyce left out\\".<br />What does this mean? There is a whole cult of Pynchon fans out there & I imagine that we are very annoying to everyone else, with our \\"he who knows doesn't say..\\" sort of smirks. This is a pity because if one can relax & go with it GRAVITY'S RAINBOW has a tremendous amount to say about people, modernity (and I would guess post-modernity!) the de-humanizing effect of war & technology, the importance of a sense of humor, the importance of persistance... PLUS you get to meet an amazing cast of characters, ranging from Our Heroe Tyrone to a real witch to a rocket-corps-cult from the Namib desert, to a trained octopus, to... & Yup, it actually makes sense. I find that I re-read this book about every three years & still find new & nifty things in it that I missed in each previous reading. I DON'T suggest that it will change your life, but if you are looking for a complex, highly literate author writing at the height of his powers, look no further: a screaming comes across the sky....	2002-04-14
US	52864495	R10PL9E04JOGUJ	0060931671	183823737	The Crying of Lot 49 (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	the most accessible Pynchon....	...and perhaps the best single book written on the 1960's. While i will agree with other readers that this isn't Pynchon's best book it is still a great read and takes you places that you will want to re-visit periodically. Although ostensibly revolving around the heroine Oedipa Maas' attempts to probate the will of a former lover, The Crying of Lot 49 sweeps us up and down the west coast of a U.S. that is visibly coming apart at the seams. From a San Francisco where folks are \\"lookin' for a Good Time\\" to a southern California that is caught in a hollow booming suburbia and rising defense industry (Pynchon enthusiasts will immediately recognize Yoyodyne, an organization that also manages to drift into film in The Adventures of Buckaroo Banzai)we get a rare glimpse back into a time when just about anything seemed not only possible but likely. The Tristero network can be looked at as an odd but wonderful foreshadow of the Internet, and all too much else that at the time seemed Pynchon's fantasy has now come to pass.  Unlike some other reviewers I regularly laughed myself sick -although at times it is a sick laughter. Conspiracy enthusiasts will be delighted to find that not only are They out to Get them, but They have been around much longer than you thought. Did it happen? was the whole thing a practical joke? read it & see. In the meantime, We STILL Await Silent Tristero's Empire.	2002-04-04
US	52864495	R2KNMPQ0XJHAFO	0399148493	908833882	Target Lock	Books	1	10	15	N	N	send 'em down with the ship	Ok, I admit it, I like sea stories & even have a weakness for technothrillers when in need of pulp fiction, and in fairness to Mr. Cobb I should say that I quite enjoyed his first two books in this series (CHOOSERS OF THE SLAIN & SEA STRIKE) although I felt that what seemed to be his decision at that point -to retire his heroine- was a wise one. Things were starting to get sloppy (at one point his \\"destroyer\\" was listed as weighing in at 80,000 tons -given that a WW II battleship generally weighed less than 60k this was presumably a typo!)& he seemed to have milked his characters for all he could get.  I seem to have missed #3 & #4 certainly doesn't make me want to rush back to the library to get it. I believe it was Hitchcock who said something like \\"if the plot is sagging, torture the heroine\\".  Cobb seems to have updated this into a Softer Gentler 'oughts model of \\"if the plot is sagging have the heroines sleep with whomever is around.\\" They do. Quite apart from the tedium of his \\"love scenes\\" one has GOT to wonder what would happen to an officer in today's navy -male OR female- who shacked up with someone that s/he knew perfectly well was in the business of murdering U.S. Nationals & plotting to overthrow a Friendly Power. Can you say \\"Court martial\\"? While a major requirement of technothrillers is something of a suspension of belief -if the U.S. was even half as hip as the Cobbs of this world would have us believe bin Laden & co. would have lasted about 15 minutes back in the Autumn- one ought to be asked only to suspend belief only on the infalliable technology, not the very falliable humans. Nope,  put this one back on the table and hope that Mr. Cobb can execute a major course change when he stands into danger.	2002-03-29
US	52864495	R2H60EYS8UDBWC	0374123543	928235722	Churchill: A Biography	Books	3	1	7	N	N	The vultures gather...	...but the carcass is pretty much picked clean by this point.  Frankly I am baffled as to what Roy Jenkins' motives were in writing this book. In 900 plus pages he fails to give us much new factual material on his subject, and I found his endless speculation on how much &amp; of what Churchill might have drunk on a particular occasion bordering on the offensive. As other reviewers have pointed out, this is a &quot;political biography&quot; that I suppose tries to focus on Churchill's role in Parliament, but Jenkins manages to both divorce debate from the larger issues on the world stage, and to confuse his readers with spontaneous jumps in time and space and the frequent use of &quot;inside&quot; jargon. It is important to remember that Jenkins was a long-time parliamentary opponent of Churchill, and he never fails to trumpet Labour ideology whenever the opportunity presents itself.  What non-British readers of this book will make of some of this I can only imagine! Indeed, I have been struggling to come up with an American equivalent for this book. It is as if Al Gore were to write a biography of Eisenhower, although I suspect that Al would pay more attention to the context of Ike's actions -and do it in fewer pages. What is peculiar is that although Jenkins engages in regular ad hominem critiques of Churchill, he ends by saying that he was probably the greatest Prime Minister in recent memory -but then this from a man who regularly extols Clement Attlee must be regarded as faint praise at best. If you MUST read everything on WSC, then I suppose this will give you some insights on the peculiarities of the Mother of Parliaments, but I am left at the end reminded of T.E. Lawrence's poem that begins THE SEVEN PILLARS OF WISDOM:<br />&quot;and now<BR>The little things creep out to patch themselves hovels<BR>in the marred shadow<BR>Of your gift.&quot;	2002-03-23
US	52864495	R21V6IVXFRA3XG	0393049507	36641631	A Mind So Rare: The Evolution of Human Consciousness	Books	3	48	56	N	Y	Interesting ideas flawed by sloppy writing	I wish that I could jump on the bandwagon of approval that this book seems to be getting, but I am afraid that I can't. I picked A MIND SO RARE for a graduate seminar, largely because of the glowing reviews that it had received here &amp; in some technical journals, but the more I read of it the more irritated I became with Donald's habit of sticking in little jeers &amp; snide asides about his opponents, and his tendency to create straw men for  any argument with which he disagrees. Having assigned the book I did my best to keep the conversation going, but to be honest it bombed with the students. Most felt that he could have summarized his &quot;new ideas&quot; in many fewer pages &amp; that the elaborations served to confuse more than to enlighten. It was also hard to follow just whom he was citing or why he chose to leave some theorists out &amp; put others in -this particularly annoying at the graduate level!  All in all this is a pity, because some of Donald's ideas suggest interesting alternatives to much of the popularly stated positions in this field, but he would have done us all a much greater service by clearly expounding his points &amp; avoiding the unproductive carping about his (often un-named) opponents.	2002-03-19
US	52864495	R3OKIBOZ5X77OJ	0316134007	205813065	The Wooden Nickel: A Novel	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A wonderful romp -with teeth	While I enjoyed Carpenter's first outing as a novelist (A KEEPER OF SHEEP) WOODEN NICKEL heralds a real development in his style. Here we have Lucky Lunt, a middle aged lobsterman past his prime, who is confronted with a combination of The Family From Hell and a tide of change sweeping both the Maine coast and the fishing villages that dot its bays and islands. Lunt tries to both Make Do & Do Right, but the world has changed behind his back, and it seems that the old rules no longer apply. Lucky is not exactly Nice To Know but by about halfway through you are rooting for him without shame. While there are moments when I laughed myself sick, there are also images and events to break your heart. The ending, an almost epic encounter with both a whale & Lunt's fellow humans, will leave you hanging beyond the final sentence.  Is it a comedy? Is it a tragedy? That is ultimately up to you, but it is a damn good read. Carpenter knows both his shore & his people well -one can run into any of his characters if you hang out at the right docks at the right time somewhere between Eastport & the New Hampshire Line. The places are just right also -anyone who has been Downeast will recognize Carpenter's sure hand on the description of fog & shoals & harbors & sealife. He's been there & back & now we can tag along with Lucky & enjoy it too.	2002-03-19
US	52864495	R30CDSCIGHG6XX	0670891576	624836488	In the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex	Books	5	6	7	N	N	couldn't put it down	I stumbled over this book in probably the perfect setting -the New Bedford Whaling Museum- &amp; as my title indicates, I literally couldn't put it down.  Instead I retired to a quiet corner of the museum shop and, well, a couple of hours later I came to with the bulk of the book read. Not that this isn't a well-researched book with good background material, but i found both the drama of the story &amp; Philbrick's prose quite compelling &amp; this for someone who frankly doesn't like whaling stories! This is an exciting window into a strange and terrible period in our relationship with the sea, and also an amazing glimpse at the lives of soem extraordinary men placed in impossible conditions. Philbrick gives us the sense of both their strengths and weaknesses without excessive pseudo-psychoanalysis, and we are left frankly in a state of wonder -wonder at how the survivors not only made it through their epic voyage, but also the rest of their lives, and also wonder at how we would have fared under similar circumstances.	2002-03-19
US	52864495	R1L0EHLKAISEF1	0374514313	848827429	Encounters with the Archdruid: Narratives About a Conservationist and Three of His Natural Enemies	Books	5	61	63	N	N	a generation passes...	This was the book that introduced me to John McPhee (I grew up around the corner from Dave Brower)and it made me a lifelong fan of McPhees remarkable insights and abilities as a reporter. Here he takes Brower -probably the leading voice for landscape conservation in the second half of the 20th century- and puts him Up Close and Personal with three very remarkable antagonists: the greatest Dam builder in North America, the developer of Hilton Head, and with a mining engineer who has &quot;an affinity for beds&quot; -but has managed to spend nearly 8 years in total sleeping rough in search of minerals world-wide. What is most intriguing about this book is that one comes away with an appreciation of the complexities surrounding environmental issues. This is no polemic or one-sided rant, rather McPhee shows us the strengths and weaknesses of each of his characters, and by weaving the personal in with the political we are left to make up our own minds just who are the heroes and who the villains.  Recently I used this book in an Environmental Lit. class &amp; to my surprise about half of the students had never heard of Brower (hence the title of my review. In spite of this they were all captured by the artful transparency of McPhee's prose -they were on that raft with Dominy &amp; Brower, they went up that mountain, they walked that beach, and most important, they had that conversation. Thirty years after its publication this book still has the zip to draw its reader in. Regardless of your position on Things Environmental, I encourage you to give this a good read.	2002-03-08
US	52864495	R1CCQ6OM1M8AJ3	0226354571	532159252	Foundations of Animal Behavior: Classic Papers with Commentaries	Books	2	10	14	N	N	At best an uneven foundation	After the publisher's excellent FOUNDATIONS OF ECOLOGY I was all set for an equally good set of papers and commentaries on Behaviour. Alas 'tis not yet to be! While this collection has some useful stuff it is by no means as far reaching or as selective as the ECOLOGY volume. Although the editors have picked out some key pieces, many of the papers reprinted here have vanished into deserved obscurity, and one emerges at the end with as long a list of &quot;should have been includeds&quot; as one went in with. Animal Behaviour was (and is) far more dynamic and exciting than this Foundation would have us think &amp; I find that this volume stays in a remarkably pristine condition on my shelf rather than in the proper place for a good book -much marked up &amp; in the eager hands of an enthusiastic student!	2002-02-06
US	52864495	R3GQLTMYX61A8V	0671042742	364376928	The Honourable Schoolboy	Books	5	72	75	N	N	A spy novel you will come back to...	I've just finished reading SCHOOLBOY for perhaps the fifth time &amp; find myself enjoying it just as much as I did to begin with. Part of the pleasure of a good LeCarre is the remarkable depth of his characters -the feeling that one is dealing with real people with all their faults and strengths. Beyond this however is the feeling of authenticity that leCarre brings to his landscapes and to his times. Here we can feel that we are actually in London, and Hong Kong, and Cambodia during that strange Spring of 1975 when thirty years of war were finally drawing to their chaotic close. In Smiley LeCarre has created a truly remarkable figure -at once remote in his brilliance and yet at the same time so human in his flaws and failures. here is a man who will read Goethe in the original to his cheating wife, smoke out a Russian spy in China, salvage a failing Secret Service, and yet try &amp; fail to keep to his diet. Jerry Westerby, The Honourable Schoolboy of the title is in many ways the Everyman of the piece, we side with him, root for him, fear for him, and at the end, well I won't give it away!  This is a Thinking Person's spy novel that will do just fine as &quot;aeroplane reading&quot; or as a serious glance back at those awful 1970's...	2002-01-25
US	52864495	R11S7XDS141GK7	0060915439	501126556	Holy the Firm	Books	5	74	77	N	N	Perhaps the perfect essay	I don't like using words like &quot;perfect&quot; but I think it is warranted here. This is an incredibly literate piece of work, in which not one single word has been wasted. Each time I read it I come away exhililrated &amp; humbled by Dillard's mastery of language &amp; the enormous depth of scholarship that lies behind every line and every metaphor.  This is writing by someone drunk on language &amp; learning, try not to stuff it into any pre-conceived notions of literature -this is music. Dillard has crafted a classical symphony for us in which certain movements come back over and over in variations of harmony and melody that will sweep you away. Now, that being said, I must also say that it seems that half my best students love Dillard &amp; half hate her. Very little in between. Yesterday one of my brightest (who loves Dillard) threw up her hands and said &quot;Now I hate her, I will have to spend seven years reading to know what she is saying&quot;. Yes, of course! but the joy of Dillard's immersion in Anglo-American theology and literature is that she draws you along -it isn't name dropping, thesefolks have been useful to her &amp; she wants us to come too. Read Holy The Firm with Eliot's Four Quartets in the other hand, then you can have a go at Johnson, Martin Luther.... AND YOU WILL!	2002-01-18
US	52864495	R3MYPLQZ6X69W4	034541831X	632162792	Our Game: A Novel	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Not his best, but ...	...But well worth the read.  This book represents LeCarre back on form after some stumbles with things like THE RUSSIA HOUSE, or excessive drifts into fiction-with-a-happy-ending -THE NIGHT MANAGER. Here LeCarre is remarkably prescient as (in 1995, mind you) he draws our attention to an area of the world that the West sees doomed to forget (The trans-Caucasus) and a group of ethnicities (Chechens, Ossetians, Ingush...) that we seem doomed to doom. Unlike many of the reviewers here, I LIKE it that much of the book is written in &quot;flashback&quot; as the central figure trys to work out what on Earth is going on, and again, unlike some of the reviewers, I found it easy to empathize with LeCarre's characters. Essentially the author is asking us to make a moral choice between two epic myths -the &quot;Person of action&quot; who must be engaged in teh world no matter the cost, and the &quot;On-looker&quot; who can document what happens but refuses to be drawn in.  The triumph of the book is when the two become one, as the chief protagonist is forced to literally become his quarry and the whole circle of narrative is completed. No end? Fie! This book has as much and as little &quot;ending&quot; as life itself, and I am left both puzzled and educated, with the hope that LeCarre will eventually return to these mountains for another window into what promises to be the bane of at least the first part of the 21st Century.	2002-01-13
US	52864495	RV52P5COOIS5T	0765807157	667201312	Possible Worlds	Books	5	30	30	N	N	YES!	This is a delightful collection of essays by one of the true giants of 20th century biology. I once asked Ernst Mayr what he thought of Haldane and he replied &quot;Oh, he was a LOVELY man&quot;. That about sums it up. Haldane -along with Fisher &amp; Sewell Wright- is justly credited with creating the &quot;Modern Synthesis&quot; of genetics, morphology, and evolutionary biology. He was also responsible for the original  &quot;dive tables&quot; that modern SCUBA divers rely on to avoid the bends. Apart from his literally massive contributions to technical biology, Haldane had an enormous interest in what we now call &quot;Science and Society&quot;. He wrote extensively for the &quot;common person&quot; -publishing in newspapers such as &quot;The Daily Worker&quot; essays that he hoped would demystify developments in science.  This collection captures some of the best of these pieces, including the delightful &quot;on being one's own rabbit&quot; and &quot;Some enemies of science&quot; -which I have used (along with C.S. Lewis' essay on Vivisection) to generate some intense debates in my anatomy classes. Although the language is clearly early 20th century, many of the points that Haldane makes are as cogent today as they were 75 years ago. You will find yourself intrigued, amused, and best of all INFORMED by this highly accessible mixture of ruminations on science by one of its most important practicioners.	2002-01-06
US	52864495	R14S1HD63NJLR8	0529054175	756598658	Elidor	Books	5	12	12	N	N	worth second (and third) looks	Ok, I admit taht when I first read ELIDOR as probably an 11 year old I liked it the least of Garner's books to date. It was &quot;ok&quot; but the idea of a magical fantasy being set in the urban wasteland of post-war Manchester just didn't click. Maybe it is a comment on the last quarter century, maybe it is just a matter of growing up, but going back the book all these years later I found myself absolutely enthralled. Garner makes the transition from everyday life to the realm of Welsh mythology &amp; back seamlessly and flawlessly. His characters are remarkably &quot;real&quot; -even those with &quot;bit parts&quot; like the parents of the protagonists. The language is lyrical, and there are scenes that will haunt you for years. My one complaint is that it is more a &quot;novella&quot; than a novel -at this re-reading I would gladly have kept going for another 200 pages, but what we get is great.	2002-01-06
US	52864495	R1ELUV6L3EZMGB	0345345053	661230941	A Sand County Almanac (Outdoor Essays & Reflections)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Possibly the most important  book in American Conservation	What does one say about a classic? Leopold obviously has his fanatic defenders, and there seems to be quite an industry these days in digging up everything that he ever wrote or said, including stuff that I imagine he would much rather have left lying. Fortunately this collection doesn't delve too deeply, and we get the best of Leopold as the conservationist/naturalist writing at the height of his powers. To be frank, the ecology of parts of Leopold's writing is very dated and in some cases simply wrong, but it is the product of a very different mind-set in which &quot;stability&quot; appeared to have validity, and while we may wonder at the evidence of other landscapes that Leopold ignores or skips over, we must also wonder at his skill as a writer in capturing a mood or the feel of particular places. In some ways what I find most important about Leopold -and what I point out to my &quot;eco-fundamentalist&quot; students- is here is someone who celebrated nature more eloquently than any other professional biologist that I have read, and yet here also is someone who never went out without his gun. In this sad age where &quot;sportsmen&quot; and &quot;environmentalists&quot; are too often on opposite sides of the same issue, it is important to reflect on an age when one could be both.	2002-01-06
US	52864495	R3JPPT4IO1OO2	0813006392	590177721	The Windward Road: Adventures of a Naturalist on Remote Caribbean Shores	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A delightful book by a wonderful naturalist	Archie Carr was the Godfather of modern sea-turtle biology and an outspoken advocate of turtle conservation who did more than anyone else to bring our attention to these creatures.  The Windward Road is a masterpiece of Natural History writing, capturing a magical moment in time as Carr delves into the secret lives of the great green turtles and takes us with him on journeys to Caribbean islands as yet largely unspoiled by the wave of development that was to come.  Anyone interested in conservation biology or with a love of a good yarn should get hold of this book, sink back and hear the trade winds blow -and then get out of your chair &amp; do something to carry on the struggle that Carr waged for so long to preserve turtles and their habitats.  This is a book that you will come back to repeatedly &amp; pass on to friends and students with enthusiasm.	2002-01-04
US	52864495	R1WL1KB6UOWV2O	0892725370	213537301	Islands of Maine	Books	3	6	6	N	N	A nice introduction to regional history	Although less comprehensive than the McLane's definitive series, and less ecological than Phil Conkling's Islands In Time, Caldwell's book fills in a gap for the lay reader in introducing us to the early English settlements and exploration of coastal Maine. Written by someone with a clear love for cruising the Archipelago, one gets some nice vignettes of particular islands that leave one hungry for more. There are also many good stories here that are worth repeating, and some lovely pictures drawn from a variety of sources that capture different aspects of the coast. Caldwell is to be complemented on his cheerful breezy style that keeps one interested from start to finish, and makes on reach for the chart to see how one can follow his wake in summers to come. I find that I have accumulated several editions of Caldwell &amp; make sure to keep them close to hand, at the college, at home, and on the boat.	2002-01-04
US	52864495	R95UM27A7F9QF	0306810603	280352421	A Rum Affair: A True Story Of Botanical Fraud	Books	2	6	15	N	N	a hatchet job	I am really quite puzzled as to just why the author wrote this book. By his own admission Sabbagh isn't a scientist, and by his writing it is apparent that he doesn't understand Botany, Botanists or Biogeography. In spite of this he has chosen to write about all three. The story is a rather sad little affair which could be interpreted in a number of ways. In one a botanist is suspected of fraud by members of the scientific establishment, the case is investigated, the suspect records are quietly dropped from publication, and everyone eventually retires and dies. It is clear that Sabbagh, for reasons that escape me, would rather that there had been a public trial, with any guilty parties being tarred, feathered &amp; ridden on a rail. Since this DIDN'T happen when anyone involved was alive, Sabbagh sets out to do it to the dead. Starting by gaining access to a manuscript whose author had specifically requested should remain sealed (there are some weird aspects of class struggle throughout this book by the way, Sabbagh boasts that since he is &quot;a Kingsman&quot; -a graduate of King's College Cambridge- the widow of his hero is confident that the ms will be &quot;in safe hands&quot; -false hope as it turns out.) Sabbagh sets out to develop a case against his villain, John Harrison. This \\"case\\" is based in part on excerpts from the sealed manuscript by the book's hero, John Raven, in part on wild speculation, and in large part on every bit of gossip, hearsay and innuendo that Sabbagh seems to have dug up. It is clear from the outset that there were people -especially particularly well-connected people in the British scientific aristocracy- who didn't like John Harrison. It also seems likely that Harrison wasn't particularly likable in general. Whether this dislike could have engendered the sort of plot that Sabbagh suggests seems somewhat far-fetched, and is based here on second and third hand gossip &amp; sometimes ludicrous \\"reading between the lines\\" of selected letters. While there is clearly the POSSIBILITY of fraud in the behaviour of \\"villain\\" Harrison, what also emerges is that both the \\"hero\\" John Raven and the author are what I was raised to call \\"cads\\". By Sabbagh's own account Raven gets access to Harrison's study sites on false pretexts, in spite of repeated sensible warnings that the study area is remote &amp; inhospitable Raven shows up without food or camping supplies -and manages to burn down his tent! (Sabbagh has previously suggested that Harrison is being obnoxious by telling Raven to bring supplies, but he automatically forgives his hero when he fails to follow either courtesy or caution). Raven then spends less than three days on an island where the Villain has been working for many field seasons, decides that some specimens of rare plants have been literally &quot;planted&quot; and then leaves to write a report which goes nowhere. Another interpretation of the whole affair is that Harrison was hounded by people who didn't like him, investigated by a talented amateur (Raven may have been a cad, but he was certainly talented) who failed to turn up much serious evidence of fraud (Raven mis-identifies a key species of plant in the course of his investigation). Faced with at best a verdict of \\"not proven\\" the establishment does the sensible thing and drops the whole matter. There it would (and should) have remained except for the energies  of Mr. Sabbagh. We read this sort of book for the same reason we slow down at car-wrecks or scan the front pages of the tabloids. This is a sick entertainment that ennobles nobody.	2001-12-31
US	52864495	R12A07SU4POPCG	1860464688	689303655	The Voice That Thunders: Essays and Lectures	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	Variations on a theme	This book kicked around on the floor of my study for 6 weeks, then I read it straight through, then I immediately went back &amp; re-read big chunks. This probably ISN'T a good idea. I am a big fan of Garner (see other reviews) but there were times in VOICE when I felt by putting this series of essays together that rather than telling us stories he in fact showed us that he has just one story to tell. The same phrases keep popping up in different settings, and read all together this becomes irritating (I kept thinking &quot;you just said that&quot;, forgetting that these were notes for talks often given several years apart). I think I would have enjoyed the collection more if I had read each essay seperately, with sufficient distance between them to allow me to miss the repetition. That being said, there is fascinating stuff here, including some very witty &amp; pertinent comments on writing, creativity, madness, education, and response to one's critics. There is also a wonderful &quot;look behind the scenes&quot; at how some of Garner's books came to be. Here there may in fact be some value in the reading of the essays all at once -one can track an early-middle-age dismissal of his first two books (sorry Mr. Garner, I STILL think they are outstanding!) to an eventual coming-to-terms-and-acceptance of their value (Whew!. The discussion of STRANDLOPER is worth the price of admission by itself. SO, my copy of VOICE is now heavily read, heavily annotated &amp; will be inflicted in parts on generations of my students and friends. Get it, read it, but my advice is savor it, this is a collection that shouldn't be rushed.	2001-12-31
US	52864495	R1O1FHBTYSHM4T	0801494249	834787883	The World of Northern Evergreens	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Another winner	This is the perfect book for the serious amateur naturalist or the freshman Natural Historian who will be spending any time in the northern treelands.Pielou uses a combination of clear-non-technical prose and beautiful pen-and-ink illustrations to take us through the key species and ecological relationships of the region. What is particularly delightful about the book is that although one doesn't have to be a botanist to follow the discussions, one feels always that one is in the hands of a master ecologist and writer -there are always the questions behind the questions that lead us to further understand and appreciate what we are seeing.  This is the shortest of Pielou's books that I have yet read, but it is just the right size to sling into your backpack as you head off for a field station this winter, or to have by your bed when you get back &amp; want to look up &quot;just whatever THAT was...&quot;	2001-12-20
US	52864495	R2DOCNF9VIAZC1	0198505051	296344810	Defenders of the Truth: The Battle for Science in the Sociobiology Debate and Beyond	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	A wonderful instant replay but a more problematic scorecard	My mentor Bill Drury once said that &quot;real scientific controversies never get resolved, the participants simply get old and die, and the rest of us wonder what the fuss was all about&quot;. This may be the case in the &quot;sociobiology wars&quot; certainly the tone of many reviewers here is that Segerstrale has written an epitaph for the debate, but one can't help wondering -especially given the increasingly shrill claims of the &quot;evolutionary psychologists&quot; if what we have in DEFENDERS OF TRUTH isn't more of a cautionary tale of the effects of hubris. In any case Segerstrale has done us all an enormous service with this highly readable look behind the scenes at one of the most violent arguments in biology in the 20th Century. Perhaps the most enjoyable aspect of the book is the personal glimpses that we get of the primary players, but Segerstrale doesn't scrimp on the science within the battle or the contexts within which it is played out. I have found a great deal of useful lecture material for a number of courses here and I also find the book a valuable debunker of many of the legends that have grown up over the years. I also find Segerstrale's discussion of the essential unity of Wilson's work quite compelling -the outer shell changes, the fundamental core hasn't. My only quibble would be in terms of the conclusion &quot;It ain't over till it's over...&quot;	2001-12-20
US	52864495	R1MD67XG5WGJJG	0139594795	556222791	Wildlife, Forests and Forestry: Principles of Managing Forests for Biological Diversity	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The best text I know of on the the topic	This is an excellent textbook that has aged well and belongs close to the desk of anyone who is involved in managing forests and their contents.  Hunter does an excellent job of pulling together ideas of landscape ecology, traditional wildlife management, and forestry techniques with a strong emphasis on the practical.  The book is well written &amp; I often find myself &quot;coming to&quot; seven or eight pages later after having pulled it off the shelf to look up one thing &amp; then being drawn in to read more and more. My only complaint is that it IS a textbook, which affects the structure somewhat &amp; more importantly affects the price. It is a lot to ask some of Hunter's audience to pay, but another way of looking at this is that it is cheaper in money, time and shelf space to get one good book than several bad ones, and this is certainly that one good book.	2001-12-20
US	52864495	R2N29VHPSPFJEY	0892724781	917367043	Islands in Time: A Natural and Cultural History of the Islands of the Gulf of Maine	Books	3	4	6	N	N	A useful introduction to coastal Maine	When Phil Conkling came out with the first edition of Islands in Time he more or less created a genre of Human Ecological writing that was actually of use to a wide audience.  Mixing history, geology, ecology and geography with a healthy dose of the story-tellers whimsy the book has become something of a cult classic for many of us in the Archipelago.  Unfortunately the second edition is a bit of a step backward. It's big. too big. The first edition fitted comfortably in a daypack -this seems aimed more at coffee tables. It's chatty, and I think that a rather savage editor would have worked wonders. We get a bit too much of the &quot;and-then-Raven-gave-a-thump-as-she-ran-over-the-puffin&quot; style of writing &amp; it tends to distract us from some really good stories &amp; the solid history/natural history that shone so clearly from the first edition. That being said, if you are only going to take one book with you Downeast &amp; are going the whole way Downeast, and can't find the first edition, get this.	2001-12-14
US	52864495	R1IL5P2AJ17G6J	0884481840	464406505	Islands of the Mid-Maine Coast: Penobscot Bay	Books	5	10	10	N	N	SIMPLY AWESOME	ANYBODY (and for once I mean it) who is at all interested in the Maine coast line, plans to visit Maine, has dreamed of cruising the Maine Archipelago, is interested in history and ecology of the northeastertn U.S. etc. owes it to themselves to order this book (and indeed the whole series). Lovingly written, beautifully illustrated with impossible-to-find historical photos and maps, this series by the greatest living (and probably greatest ever) expert on the history of Maine islands belongs in your boat, belongs on your desk, belongs by your bed.  I try never to go Downeast without a stack o' Mclane (much to the bemusement of my skipper) and have spent mant happy afternoons on islands with my students working out just from where a particular photo was taken a century earlier. Beautifully written, with a nice mix of stories, geneologies, and a real eye for the land, this has been literally the &quot;life's work&quot; of a wonderful couple. All of us who know, study, and love these islands have a deep debt of gratitude to the McLanes.	2001-12-13
US	52864495	RZKJPCEY9B9DP	0674004787	167361966	Making the Most of College: Students Speak Their Minds	Books	2	14	21	N	N	probably useful but certainly not scholarly	That this book is garnering the rave reviews that it seems to be getting is a crushing indictment of modern education. Light serves up a list of what should be very obvious suggestions for parents, teachers, and students: make personal connections with faculty, personalize advising, smaller classes better, lotsa good education happens outside of classes or in tutorials, good writing counts,etc. etc. but one gets the feeling from both him and earlier reviewers that this is all somehow new and different for the author and his audience. How very strange and very sad. beyond that, it is hard to &quot;place&quot; the book. In the introduction we are told that the book is based on extensive interviews with &quot;more than sixteen hundred undergraduates&quot;, but the numbers keep shifting -sometimes there are vague references to &quot;hundreds&quot; sometimes to &quot;forty&quot; or &quot;fifty&quot;. Sometimes we hear that something was &quot;barely statistically significant&quot; -but we GET no statistics, sometimes we hear about percentages, but we get no sample size. This is particularly disconcerting in that the author identifies himself at one point as a statistician. maybe he feels that numbers will scare off his audience (an odd thought given that he emphasizes rigour as a factor that ATTRACTS and satisfies students)but his technique of giving us pages of anecdotes makes it hard not to wonder how much he is picking his illustrations for pre-conceived points. The reference section doesn't help much as the vast majority of citations refer to un-refereed reports, public speeches, theses, and dissertations.  Nowhere do we get a clear picture of any precise methodology, and nowhere do we get any real instruments of assessment.  A truly telling quote from one of the few journal citations reads \\"And of course if you believe  that participation speeds learning, as most people do,  this task raised the level and maintained it at each session\\". I say \\"truly telling\\" becausethis seems to capture Light's overall standard of evidence -anecdotal common sense is quite sufficient. Maybe, but then why all the coy mentions of  his samples? Why the periodic invocation of (undocumented)  statistics? The problem becomes increasingly of concern as we move into the author's argument for  \\"diversity\\" on campus. It is clear from the outset that Light thinks that \\"diversity\\" is good, but he never really tells us what this means, and his technique of telling us nice two paragraph stories further reinforces the impression of special pleading.  I would feel much more comfortable about this whole book if either it contained a true statistical appendix or made reference to refereed publication of the results. As it stands all I can say from my own anecdotal personal experience is \\"that which is true ain't new, and of  that which is new,  we are given barely a clue&quot;.	2001-12-10
US	52864495	R2JOPCOSFIY7ZC	0374522219	516424685	The White Album	Books	5	30	35	N	N	A great follow-up to her earlier work	This book is definitely the &quot;Part 2&quot; of a series that begoins with Didion's &quot;Slouching Towards Bethlehem&quot; and each time that i return to it I feel like I am sitting down with a dear friend that I haven't talked to in a while. Other reviewers seem to have covered the title piece quite well, but I am intrigued that nobody seems to have mentioned my favorite -&quot;Holy Water&quot;- a fascinating look behind the scenes at the California Water Authority. I assign this essay again and again to my environmentalist students, both for the immediate content and for the intriguing window into the seductive nature of technology -one feels that Didion comes to be horrified and walks away enthralled. You will be too.	2001-12-08
US	52864495	R23BGJLY893IHP	1585671924	253034337	The Destruction of the Bismarck	Books	3	7	8	N	N	new light on a modern naval classic	Anyone keen on the naval history of the 20th century will probably have read masses of stuff on the Bismarck chase, and may well share my initial reaction when I saw this book on the &quot;new&quot; shelf at the library:&quot;What on earth is there left to be said?&quot; Well, perhaps not a lot. I think the authors make a bit of a mountain out of a mole-hill in their discussion of possible U.S. roles in the chase -sometimes when folks deny something it is because it didn't happen, not because they are covering up for &quot;national security&quot;. At the same time the book does a nice job discussing the possible motivations of the key players -particularly in the German Admiralty- and does a better job than most in pointing out both the effect of the failure of the Graf Spee on the Bismarck's mission and also the effect of the failure of the Bismarck on German naval strategy from that point on.  The authors also give us a better sense of the damage sustained by the Bismarck in her encounter with the Hood and Prince of Wales -a factor that tends to be lost in the shock of the destruction of Hood but is in actuality key to the ultimate failure of the whole Rhine Exercise. Overall, a pleasant evening's read.	2001-12-08
US	52864495	RIFSE63MLWNZ	0374521727	669084721	Slouching Towards Bethlehem: Essays	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The '60's without the emerald glasses	This is a wonderful collection of essays by a keen observer of the popular scene. Particularly in an age when we have come to romanticize the &quot;Summer of Love&quot; and all that it is worthwhile to take a look back at what at least one talented writer saw and wrote at the time. Apart from the excellent title piece we get &quot;Notes from a Native Daughter&quot; which captures California in a way that I never thought anyone could, &quot;The Seacoast of Despair&quot; which hits Newport right smack between the eyes (who else but Didion could come up with a line like &quot;To stand in the dining room of The Breakers is to imagine fleeing from it, pleading migraine&quot;? We also get  a truly lovely homage to John Wayne, a spooky story about Howard Hughes,etc. etc. Apart from the &quot;native Daughter&quot; however the essay that has haunted me for 20 years is the final &quot;Goodbye to all that&quot; -it is strangely wonderful to be assigning it as class reading to students who are now as old as I was when I first read it. I think the years have been kind to this and to most of the rest of this anthology.	2001-12-08
US	52864495	RJ01WFVJP9CNI	0393010465	73699063	Fire	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Not a Perfect Storm	I confess that I went into this book a tad cynical. I felt that anyone writing about smoke jumpers has to contend with Norman Maclean's unforgettable YOUNG MEN AND FIRE, but I had enjoyed-if that is the right word- PERFECT STORM so much that I assumed that if anyone could match Maclean's mixture of technical detail, energy, and lyricism it would be Junger. Well, he can't, or if he can he hasn't here. One gathers that just about everything in this collection was written for various magazines, and it is perhaps a pity that Junger didn't heavily edit the essays, revise them, focus on one or two topics and really make a book. Not that these pieces are particularly bad, I read 'em, but I doubt if I will remember them much past next month.	2001-12-08
US	52864495	R3HZVNPITGII17	0465022715	26964812	The Little Ice Age: How Climate Made History 1300-1850	Books	2	14	19	N	Y	Little History	This is an ultimately disappointing look at a fascinating topic. Fagan is an interesting writer &amp; one has no problem being drawn into the story initially, but then one starts wondering whether the trip is going to be worthwhile after all. The book is sprinkled with maps which definitely help clarify the author's points, but maybe it is the scientist in me that would have been happier with some charts with data. One response to this might be &quot;Hey, its history not science&quot; but then we get into the history and almost immediately we get into trouble, Right in the first chapter Fagan invokes the Treaty of Verdun as a codification of European order, then in the next sentence he says &quot;Only the Pope and the Emperor in Constantinople were exempt from this stricture...&quot; Well, yes,The Emperor WOULD have been exempt as would his entire Empire -Byzantine Constantinople wasn't ever part of Charlemagne's Holy Roman Empire either spiritually or politically &amp; last time I checked the Treay of Verdun was essentially Charlemagne's heirs in the West splitting up their patrimony.... A trivial point, of concern only to specialists? I think not, I am a biologist not a historian, but if the author makes this sort of egregious blunder at the outset, how can we trust him later on? A real pity, as IF one could trust the author with the facts this would have been a great book for the interested undergrad or educated lay reader, but as it is I can't really endorse it.	2001-12-01
US	52864495	R2I6BYP48X0CY2	0878930116	864305785	Animal Behavior: An Evolutionary Approach	Books	2	72	75	N	N	Ok. I take it back (send it back)	Every time I teach Animal Behaviour I swear that I am going to change texts \\"the next time\\" -and every time UNTIL NOW my students have said that they REALLY liked Alcock, well, the latest edition changes all that. As other reviewers have noted (and for reasons that escape me) Alcock has allowed his publisher to \\"dumb down\\" the text into a bland \\"pretty face\\" that turned students off in droves. As I moved through each chapter I kept thinking \\"How could someone as smart & interesting as Alcock make so many cool subjects so BORING?\\" Previous editions convince me that it ain't him, so it must be the publisher. Margins are huge, more and more gratuitous \\"illustrations\\" clutter up the text & break one's stream of thought, and by mid-term I essentially threw up my hands, apologized to the class & went to using the original primary sources with the book as a marginal reference for those that got lost. If you have a huge lecture course full of unimaginative students who want to take one & one only Behaviour course so that they can say that they have \\"done Behaviour\\" then this text is probably perfect for you, otherwise I would suggest haunting used book shops for past editions or going straight to the literature. the whole thing reminds me of \\"New Coke\\" -a marketing scheme that ignored its market. Alcock is an excellent scholar and in the past his book has been a great source of original material which I have encouraged my students to have on their shelves as a reference source,but this is a shame.	2001-12-01
US	52864495	R2NKUGACGJSGBZ	0152017666	900270918	The Weirdstone of Brisingamen: A Tale of Alderley	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	A marvellous read	One of the best &quot;fantasy&quot; books that I have read. Garner mixes the magic of Old England with a believeable pair of modern children and gives us a story that is highly appealing to children and adults alike. I read WEIRDSTONE to my daughter when she was six, and she would be utterly silent through each chapter, then came the questions. Three years later we still talk about the book and are planning a pilgrimage to Alderley to walk The Old Straight Track and see if we can find Goldenstone and the Wizard's gates. Wish us luck.	2001-11-11
US	52864495	R2SLWRNNA3ONTF	0805064222	101663882	The Good German: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Look back in anger...	A thoroughly captivating read about a piece of history that has been largely swept under a convenient carpet.  I confess that I had never actually thought what it must have been like in Berlin just after the war -most histories seem to end with April 1945 &amp; pick up again (with a strong US emphasis) at the Berlin Airlift. Here Kanon gives us a somewhat nightmarish answer to the old question &quot;Where do you go when the record is over&quot;. The strengths of the book are mainly the glimpses we get of the destroyed city and its inhabitants (both The Girl and The Father-in Law are well portrayed) and the moral ambiguousness of everyone involved, the weaknesses oddly enough are the hero -who is just TOO good to be true-and the actual murder mystery around which the plot turns.  By about 2/3 of the way through I had given up caring about just &quot;whodunnit&quot; &amp; by the end I had to check back to the begiining to sort out just who was who, but this didn't really matter. I felt like I had been given new insight into the price of victory and new questions that begged further research. I strongly reccomend reading THE ROCKET AND THE REICH as a non-fiction companion to this novel, but even withoutmuch background, I doubt that you will find this book easy to put down or to forget. Finally, as a scientist I found that the book raised again important questions about the &quot;purity&quot; of science and the endless temptation of a moral vacumn. We got teh A4, von Braun and eventually the moon. What did we lose?	2001-11-11
US	52864495	R2QGX4318C1KRR	0152017984	924354005	The Owl Service	Books	4	3	4	N	N	very very strange...	Definitely NOT a book for most children. I read THE OWL SERVICE many years ago in part because I had enjoyed Garner's earlier books so much.  I remember having nightmares afterwards, and steered clear of it subsequently.  At the same time, the book stuck with me, and when I saw it in a used book shop a while ago I picked it up and re-read it. Second time through it is captivating, haunting, disturbing, and yes, very very strange. perhaps the perfect book to curl up with on a rainy autumn afternoon and find oneself going somewhere where the real and the possible somehow get turned inside out and we end... I am not sure where. I'd be reluctant to give this to other than a very mature child, but if you have one, he or she may well be entranced. I know I am.	2001-11-11
US	52864495	R1FRQHKRHJBZH1	0152017968	424466094	The Moon of Gomrath: A Tale of Alderley	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Wonderful sequel to a classic	This is the second in Garner's ALDERLEY books, and can certainly be read alone -although one will perhaps do better by beginning with THE WEIRDSTONE OF BRISINGAMEN.  In both books we are given a wonderful mix of the magic and the &quot;real&quot; and invited to share in a world that seems to hover at the edge of peripheral vision.  MOON is perhaps a bit &quot;older&quot; than WEIRDSTONE, my Clare admitted to being scared by some of the things that happen to the children around whom the book spins, and there is a feeling that Garner is perhaps aiming more at early teens, but Clare was enthralled with the book at six and wanted to hear it again at eight &amp; I suspect I will catch her reading it when she is twelve, and we will still be talking about it when we are both much much older.	2001-11-11
US	52864495	RQBQ61P6PLJZ7	1860461611	766706152	Strandloper (Harvill Panther)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	The most difficult of Garner's books...	..and perhaps the most rewarding.  Definitely NOT for children of any shape or size, STRANDLOPER is an amazing experiment in writing in which Garner mixes a variety of styles and languages to tell us the story of a young man from the Midlands who gets transported &quot;upon the seas and over the seas&quot; to Australia in 1799. Once in Australia he escapes and is adopted by an Aboriginal tribe with whom he remains for more than thirty years before returning to his home village.  The ending is sheer poetry, and will stick with me long after other details fade.  This may be a tough read for some, but stick with it!	2001-11-11
US	52864495	R3B6LJS3SOH5OD	0300055463	325138330	A History of the Ecosystem Concept in Ecology: More than the Sum of the Parts	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A valuable sourcebook for anyone interested in Ecology	This is a highly readable and engaging account of the rise of one of the dominant &quot;paradigms&quot; in modern ecology. Golley manages to humanize the scientists behind the science while at the same time providing us with extensive footnotes and a really good overview of the theoretical and historical issues involved in the creation of the ecosystem concept. Numerous pictures also help us to visualize the people behind the text and also give us glimpses of the social settings in which some of these ideas developed.  While I disagree on theoretical grounds with the widespread use of the term &quot;ecosystem&quot; Golley is to be commended for giving us a remarkably even-handed vision of where it all came from. I use this book extensively with my undergraduate classes in ecology and conservation and it is a real shame that it is out of print. If you see it, grab it.	2001-09-28
US	52864495	RPLEG45TKSJPO	0309065682	659685840	The Door in the Dream: Conversations With Eminent Women in Science	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	A real mixture	Parts of this book are absolutely first rate -I thoroughly enjoyed the introductory & concluding sets of chapters that \\"place\\" the interviews- and some of the biographical pieces are also intriguing and insightful. Unfortunately one gets the feeling that Wasserman has tried to both stretch too far & at the same time go too deep in some areas. In the cases of scientists where we actually get enough material to sense a \\"conversation\\" the book cannot be faulted (the interview/section on Ruth Patrick was marvellous for instance), but in some cases we have little more than an expanded extract from some sort of \\"Great Women & Men in Science\\" dictionary. Fewer and longer entries would perhaps have served better. This breadth/depth problem is in a sense highlighted by a striking shortage of ecologists (there is the Patrick interview mentioned already & a disappointingly short blurb on Jane Lubchenco) & an absence of behavioral ecologists (what of the likes of Sarah Hrdy etc.?)while at the same time it seems we get lots of biochemist/genetics/& physical science types. A number of authors have noted the greater success that women have had in penetrating the Life Sciences, and perhaps Wasserman feels that this area needs less attention, but a more detailed analysis of WHY things have been better in Biology would be of interest. Other than these complaints I enjoyed the book and will have no problem encouraging my students (female and male alike) to read it.	2001-09-05
US	52864495	R35FIEVT9JZSFI	0871137895	96115448	The Eternal Frontier: An Ecological History of North America and Its Peoples	Books	4	13	14	N	Y	A rippin' good yarn	I thoroughly enjoyed this book, although I agree with earlier reviwers that it could use more and better illustrations and also tends to favor particular ecological hypotheses to the near exclusion of others. The book begins with what is certainly the most dramatic description of the KT asteroid impact that I have read so far, and then takes us on a wild ride through the next 65 million years and across the entire North American continent. The book is well-written (downright gripping in places) and I appreciate the exhaustiove-but-unobtrusive footnoting. Anyone keen on digging into pre-Columbian ecological history will appreciate Flannery's assemblage of material that would otherwise be scattered across the technical literature. As we approach the Recent Flannery's focus (almost bordering on hero worship) on Paul Martin and the &quot;Pleistocene Blitzkrieg&quot; will doubtless annoy many -even though I tend to agree with Martin &amp; Flannery about the importance of hunting on mammalian ecology I wish that more space had been given to competing hypotheses. Flannery's analysis of the Really Recent (last few hundred years) is definitely abbreviated (I encourage the reader to look to Diana Muir's excellent REFLECTIONS ON BULLOUGH'S POND for more detail) but it is hardly shallow. Instead Flannery asks us to both consider &amp; seriously speculate on how the events of so short a time as we usually regard &quot;history&quot; might produce a future North America. Controversial? you bet! Thought-provoking? Absolutely! Give us some more maps &amp; diagrams &amp; this will jump to 5 stars easily!	2001-09-05
US	52864495	R3OAY1QYS4VRWE	0312283091	36589650	Class Dismissed: A Year in the Life of an American High School, A Glimpse into the Heart of a Nation	Books	1	35	40	N	N	Kidsploitation at its worst	Anyone looking for a serious evaluation of the state of modern education will have to look elsewhere. This book is a nasty little example of a currently popular form of writing in which adults who should know better try and get teens to tell all and then sensationalize what they hear. I suspect that all three of the student participants in this experiment in journalism will look back in anger at later points in their lives when they see how they have been used. Their friends (whose lives are also exposed) are probably already furious. Now, to the content itself.  For reasons that escape me the author selects as her representative sample of Berkeley High Students NO Berkeley teens! Instead we get the hard-worker from Alameda, the jock from Richmond, and the trust-fund kid from the Oakland hills. This probably wont mean much to folks unfamiliar with Bay Area geography, but it means worlds in terms of socio-cultural differences.  Although the author makes repeated snide remarks about the children of professors we never get to meet any, nor do we see any signs of the middle or working classes. In addition, the authors focus on a very small school-within-a-school fails to give any real insight into the experience of the overwhelming majority of Berkeley students. Even within the modest bounds that she has set up actual curricula content constantly takes second place to the authors interest in clothing we hear in great detail what everyone WEARS in High School but very little about what they HEAR and still less about what it might mean. Teachers are classified on the basis of dress, and we have to find out in great detail what each of our protagonists is wearing at every stage of their final year. This might (perhaps) be acceptable as social commentary if some analysis was included, but the author seems incapable of ANY analysis at all, she simply has an agenda, but as we plow through dismal page after page one starts to wonder just WHAT that agenda might be.  The author obviously likes integration and hates private schools, yet much of what she says demonstrates the failure of the former and the reasons for the latter. She likes experiments in multi-cultural education yet after four years of it NONE of her three teens can get into college on academic merit alone (the jock is parodied as an illiterate, the hard-worker gets in under affirmative-action-by-another-name, and the trust-fund kid is every admission officers nightmare).  Perhaps the most egregious fault in this book is the complete lack of any footnotes or real references. Instead the author relies on tittle-tattle & vague allusions to un-cited newspaper editions etc. We dont know her methodology, we dont get any sense of cross-validation, and any hint of scholarship is woefully lacking. The saddest part of the books subject matter is that there really IS a problem with public schools, but having read CLASS DISMISSED one has to wonder whether it is precisely people like the author  who have with the best intentions- squandered a unique opportunity in American education. By emphasizing form over content and feel good and appearance over academics a generation of students has been cheated out of much that they should have learned.  In the end I fear that we will be left with schools as engines that create the very racism that some of us hoped to do away with as the black kids realize that they have been taught nothing that will help them integrate into society, the white kids resent what they see correctly as racist preferentialism, and both resent being made pawns of their elders guilt complexes..	2001-09-03
US	52864495	RF0VXMQP1D6J5	0224606425	416350439	GREAT NORTHERN? A Swallows and Amazons Book	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A nice end to a brilliant series	While this was not MY favorite &quot;Swallows and Amazons&quot; I note with amusement that it IS my 8 year old daughter's favorite -although she says she &quot;loves them all&quot;. This volume was the last that Ransome completed (COOTS IN THE NORTH shows promise but is more of a tease than anything real)Here we find a significantly older bunch of Swallows, Amazons, and Dees sailing around the outer Hebrides in search of wild birds and adventure. They find both, and the book was remarkably prescient in terms of its emphasis on conservation and protection of rare species. Older children in particular will find important things to mull over (no pun intended!)so you should be ready for questions about your own stance on the defence of wild places and their inhabitants. Overall a good read (Clare by the way says &quot;Four stars? I give it five!). go for it	2001-09-03
US	52864495	R11ETAPM5EDYAV	0874519098	251347185	Reflections in Bulloughs Pond: Economy and Ecosystem in New England (Revisiting New England)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	An excellent  inter-disciplinary book!	This is a REALLY nice example of the possibilities that exist when an author weaves together multiple strands of thought in a comprehensive view of a topic or region. Here Muir examines the New England landscape from the perspectives of ecology, economics and history and makes each topic come alive as it is informed by the others. The prose is excellent and the pace and choice of examples kept me intrigued to the end. As someone who spends a good deal of time teaching about the topics that Muir focuses on I tend to be a sceptical consumer but here I found myself constantly nodding &quot;yes!&quot; or exclaiming &quot;Aha! NOW I understand why THAT happened&quot;. This is a great book for students of Landscape Ecology as well as anyone seriously interested in the history and ecology of New England, and I suspect that even people who have never set foot east of the Mississippi will still benefit greatly from having read it.	2001-08-20
US	52864495	R3GOABT9YTR122	0881504203	723490874	Reading the Forested Landscape: A Natural History of New England	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	A most excellent book!	This is a fascinating piece of writing, beautifully illustrated, and full of thought-provoking ideas. Wessels does an excellent job of leading the reader through a historical/natural historical approach to understanding portions of the New England landscape. The book is a mixture of &quot;how to&quot; guide and a basket of intriguing facts. My one quibble is that the author is still fixated on a somewhat '70's view of &quot;ecosystems&quot; and &quot;succession&quot; -although he does allow a refreshing degree of indeterminism to creep in on occasion. Other than that this is a must read for any regional ecologist!	2001-07-07
US	52864495	R76JK2AAMB87X	0226500624	907441434	Young Men and Fire	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	Maclean's most haunting (and haunted) work	I read this book after A River Runs Through It, and found that while I had liked RIVER I couldn't put this one down. Unfinished at the time of the author's death the book has some bumpy spots, but the language and the mixture of story and theory will keep you up late and come back to you again and again, especially if you are a lover of the country that Maclean invokes so well. I should warn you that friends that I have sicced on this book have either loved it with me or hated it, and parts are not for the faint of heart, but this is definitely a book to keep.	2001-07-04
US	52864495	RJVJQK7O7VZ9A	0198204280	184550212	The Oxford History of the Twentieth Century	Books	3	15	15	N	N	a thoroughly mixed bag	My colleagues and I selected this book for a team-taught course on the 20th Century, reasoning that multiple authors would give us multiple perspectives.  Alas, it also gave us multiple standards of quality, and an overall lack of focus.  The students voted with their feet and gave up on the book perhaps half way through. We stuck it out to the bitter end &amp; concluded that the students were probably right, although there are periodic flashes on insight &amp; interest throughout. The second time around we used Roberts' 20th Century history &amp; both we &amp; the students were much happier.	2001-07-04
US	52864495	R3J9TE8TU6LKJ0	0195112717	633703939	The Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals, Definitive Edition	Books	5	21	24	N	N	After the BEAGLE, Darwin's &quot;funnest&quot; book!	This is the second book that I throw my serious students after I make them read the Voyage. While the subject is serious, there is more than a hint of play throughout, and one can just imagine Darwin observing his own children for clues to discuss as each chapter unfolds. Although this book is of course not nearly as important as the Origin or even Descent, it is essentially part of the Long Argument, and is a great way of bringing behavioural topics to the fore in any discussion of evolution. A pity it is that many modern popularizers of &quot;evolutionary psychology&quot; seem to have missed parts of the form and substance that Darwin expresses here.	2001-07-04
US	52864495	RBGDIDSBQ8KSN	0393309304	333359782	Charles Darwin: A New Life	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Probably the best recent single volume Darwin Biography	My title probably says it all, but I will elaborate. I still think that janet Browne has made the best START to a biography, I just wish she would finish by giving us Vol. 2!  In the meantime we have Bowlby and that isn't half bad.  Full of interesting background material and written with a lively pace A NEW LIFE manages to steer through some of the perils of &quot;psychohistory&quot; that have damaged other authors and gives us an interesting and at times provocative look at Darwin and Darwin's time. Well worth the read.	2001-07-04
US	52864495	R3J9Q5O97WSTT	0312130279	84547640	The Bird Artist: A Novel	Books	5	23	24	N	Y	a marvelous book	If you want a book to take with you to the beach that you won't be embarassed to have been caught reading, look no further. I may be biased as I read it under what may be perfect circumstances -on a foggy island on the coast of Maine, with the foghorn and the marine radio for background, but even for the shore-bound among you believe me that this is what The Shipping News never could deliver. Beautifully written with nary a wasted word this book captures both the period and The Rock in a way that I have yet to find in any other author. While the narrator may infuriate you at times you will also find yourself rooting for him throughout, and although we &quot;know what will happen&quot; from the first paragraph on the WHY &amp; the HOW keeps you going to the end.	2001-07-04
US	52864495	RVIYJVLV8NYGQ	1587170256	712306633	The Magic city (Nesbit)	Books	5	27	30	N	Y	Nesbit's best	More than a quarter of a century ago my sisters and I were captivated by E. Nesbit, and particularly by THE MAGIC CITY. Long unavailable (I have scoured used book shops and the Net for copies for various children) it is great to have it easily available once more. I am happy to report that my own daughter was as taken with it as her aunts and I a generation earlier, and like us she at once began building magic cities of her own. I realize that I risk the wrath of Potterites everywhere, but I suspect that in a hundred years children and their parents will still be enjoying The Magic City while Harry is at most the subject of earnest dissertations on odd trends in the early 21st century. If you have a spark of imagination and an eager child handy, grab this book.	2001-07-04
US	52864495	R34R4WAYKJW909	0201149370	31330394	Ceremonial Time: Fifteen Thousand Years on One Square Mile	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	Important reading for any New Englander	I have lifted whole lecture topics from this book, and passed on copies to numerous students and friends. The idea is lovely -write an ecology based on an intimate history of one square mile of land-and Mitchell delivers it up in excellent prose that keeps one reading even when the material turns a tad dry. Why only 4 stars? I am not sure if this book will have &quot;legs&quot; beyond the landscape and history that it celebrates. It would be great to have a few more Mitchells do something similar to the westward and southward, so that we could expand our perceptions beyond the deliberate confines that the author has set. For those of us within a day's drive however, this is definitely a book to read.	2001-07-04
US	52864495	R3L4XYL8JVF60I	0374519749	668348122	Heirs of General Practice	Books	5	31	31	N	Y	First rate McPhee	A former student sent me this book after her first year in medical studies and said &quot;finally someone who tells it like it is&quot;. Definitely NOT about urban Medibusiness or the world of HMOS and doctors too busy to doctor, instead McPhee focuses on the lives and work of young doctors in rural Maine, bringing us their story and that of their patients with compassion and without either the cloying sentimentality or the muck-raking zeal that sometimes clogs this topic. A quick read &amp; well worth it.	2001-04-27
US	52864495	R1ON5OAN9AGQ4F	0809015935	749308546	Black Sea	Books	5	33	34	N	N	A lovely book	This is a bold and imaginative look at an area critical to the development of Western culture.Ascherson takes us on a remarkable tour through geography and history, and one comes away with much of the excitement of a real traveller. If the book stumbles on occasion I think it should be forgiven given the complexities that the author is willing to address (and the remarkably few stumbles that he has made. I particularly enjoyed Ascherson taking us more or less up to the present, as the spectre of modern environmental collapse joins the never-ending wars whose origins become more understandable after one has read this book. I wish it were longer, I wish there were more obvious references to take us further once we were done, but this is a real gem even if you never get east of Long Island Sound.	2001-03-30
US	52864495	R148X54IKGND4I	1568361270	697623546	Like Hidden Fire: The Plot to Bring Down the British Empire	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	Not a Great Game, but...	...quite a good read.  Having enjoyed Hopkirk's GREAT GAME (and having been a fan of John Buchan since childhood) I turned to this with anticipation.  The book doesn't really disappoint, and I have used bits and pieces in a variety of lectures, but at the same time I don't think it lives up to its predecessor. There were many moments where I was enthralled and captivated -Hopkirk does a great job linking the different aspects of Imperial Germany's global strategy, from the Himalaya to Mexico, but then there were fallow sections where I wish he would simply get on with the story. Suffice it to say that I have dipped back into it on occasion and in hindsight think that dipping in might be better than reading it cover to cover.	2001-03-30
US	52864495	R7ZYWX9BR48DG	0786707690	615653171	Cochrane: The Life and Exploits of a Fighting Captain	Books	5	14	15	N	N	History as it ought to be written...	...but too often isn't.  This is a highly entertaining biography of a truly remarkable man, and Robert Harvey is to be applauded for keeping the human element in the story while still giving us a clear account of the historical context within which his hero moved.  Yes, there IS some hero-worship, but frankly there SHOULD be! Cochrane's actual adventures make his fictionalized shadows (Aubrey and Hornblower) pale by comparison, and Harvey writes in an un-put-downable style that keeps us going to the end.  My only real complaint IS the end, there is a bit of a feeling of &quot;rush&quot; in the final chapters -essentially from when Cochrane leaves Brazil on- and it would have been fun to have his final years given more detail, but the first two thirds of both the book and Cochrane's life are such a rush that anything would have been an anti-climax.	2001-03-30
US	52864495	R1HMHVQ2HNJ0BV	0691026068	503525538	Charles Darwin: A Biography, Vol. 1 - Voyaging	Books	5	12	13	N	N	The best I've read...	...and I've read quite a few.  Janet Browne has an enormous gift with words that really bring out the person behind the legend. With a wonderful mix of scholarship and story-telling Browne takes us through the early (and most physically adventurous) part of Darwin's life, drawing on letters, reminiscences, and broader history to fill in the gaps that darwin himself left in Beagle and the Autobiography. This is definitely THE biography to read if you want to get a real taste for the source of so much of Darwin's later thinking. My one complaint? WHERE IS VOLUME 2???	2001-03-24
US	52864495	RO3SFGE3ZLGXQ	0140258795	803603230	Longitude: The True Story of a Lone Genius Who Solved the Greatest Scientific Problem of His Time	Books	1	38	52	N	N	a disappointment	This is a fascinating topic, with some fascinating protagonists, but at least in the paperback edition (is there a difference?)the author fils to really engage us.  The opening chapter is a nice college essay on the topic that basically contains the rest of the book, and I found myself constantly saying &quot;Hey, you already told us that&quot; for the next hundred plus pages. There is lots of florid prose about how evil and conniving some folks were, but we never really get a feel for them. I suspect that the author either 1) could have used a good editor or 2) got edited to death in order to fit some sort of page limit. As a result there are lots of teasers &amp; some gratuitous statements (WHY for instance do we have to hear in a one-liner that the man who cleans the clocks at the end of the book had a difficult personal life?)&amp; one walks away wondering what one missed.	2001-03-24
US	52864495	R11V6R0P8TF7F	0226705943	60821330	Foundations of Ecology: Classic Papers with Commentaries	Books	5	24	24	N	N	A Must Have for any serious student	Nearly a decade ago my colleague Bill Drury and I ran into each other in the hall, each of us waving this book &amp; on the way to give it to the other.  We had both been teaching out of endless stacks of xeroxes of xeroxes because neither of us had any time for conventioal textbooks. Bless Real &amp; Brown for putting together not only some really key papers but also intelligent thoughtful commentary by some of the leading lights in the field.  I have used the book ever since it came out &amp; my students find it a valuable resource to take off to grad school. I must admit that while the selection is lovely there ARE some missing pieces &amp; the xeroxes of xeroxes haven't altogether disappeared, but this is far and away the best out there to date. So, when can we expect the 2nd addition?	2001-03-24
US	52864495	R3IN8QCBOPC28O	0393311503	16121847	Darwin: The Life of a Tormented Evolutionist	Books	4	13	17	N	N	Good but by no means great	Desmond and Moore go beyond some of the &quot;psycho-history&quot; poularizers that seem to hang on to the fringes of evolutionary biology these days, but there is still a whiff of the analyst's couch in too much of this book. The title gives away the bias from the first, so we can't say we weren't warned, but it is odd that Desmond and Moore seem to ignore the enormous amount of evidence (often in his own words) of Darwin the Contented Naturalist, Darwin the Excited Traveller (I strongly encourage anyone really interested in Darwin to go look at Phil Darlington's delightful cartoon of &quot;Chas&quot; Darwin &quot;Hanging Out&quot; at Cambridge in Darlington's wonderful &quot;Evolution for Naturalists&quot;) Darwin the Family Man (read Raverat's Period Piece, etc.) The chapters continue in the same vein (Paradise &amp; Punishment, Mental Rioting, Murder, Ugly Facts, etc.) and while they draw heavily on one side of Darwin and darwiniana it is only the one side. For my money Janet Browne's biography is head and shoulders above this -if only she would finish it!	2001-03-24
US	52864495	RWZL9WX47YVN1	0743215052	769417678	The Constant Gardener: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	couldn't put it down	Not only couldn't put it down but inflicted it on my friends. This is a fascinating, heart-breaking, and ultimately depressing look at our multi-national corporate world. On the positive side the books demonstrates once again that LeCarre has made a successful leap from teh Cold War into the modern error (there were a couple of stumbles on the way, but never mind). It is also great to see a novel about Africa where the heroes and villains cut across nationalities and ethnicities, with nary a bow to Political Correctness. I won't spoil the book by telling the plot, but it is a real activists credo -if you don't want to Do Something at the end you've lost your soul. My one quibble that takes this from 5 stars is that Our Heroe is a litlle too clever and lucky at getting what he needs to get in order to get to the end of the novel 'nuff said.	2001-03-24
US	52864495	R2G40QQK605QG2	0691034974	707651809	The Ecological Detective: Confronting Models with Data	Books	4	14	16	N	Y	Useful but on occasion abstruse	Hilborn and Mangel should be congratulated, if only for re-publishing Chamberlain's essay on Multiple Woorking Hypotheses, which should be on every ecologist's &quot;Must Read&quot; list but has till now been all too hard to find. Beyond that however the authors give some fascinating examples of ecological analysis based on real-world data, with clear explanations of the perils &amp; pitfalls that they themselves have had to skirt. I have most of the Princeton Monographs, but find that this one is already more dog-eared than many of the others that have sat on the shelf much longer.	2001-03-24
US	52864495	R6I42BAXHODBL	0140188479	738503075	Black Lamb and Grey Falcon: A Journey Through Yugoslavia (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	1	4	N	Y	A real Christmas Pudding of a book!	Masses of fascinating information here,some of it silver thruppeney bits, some of it perhaps nuts. Written in a truly remarkable travelogue style. What is perhaps the most impressive element of the book is the depth of some of the conversations that West recounts- a truly humbling experience given that these discussions, that often cover hundreds of years of history must have been conducted simultaneously in several different languages! It is a sad commentary on the present era that such a conversation is unlikely to occur again.  A must read for anyone serios about the Balkans.	2001-02-25
US	52864495	ROHKSHIC97H9J	0771039603	149849646	Lament for an Ocean: The Collapse of the Atlantic Cod Fishery	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	an interesting read with a slightly &quot;pop&quot; tone	This is certainly a book to make one wonder at the relationship between scientists, politicians, and government administrators.  Harris presents the story with a (to this Southerner) refreshing Canadian focus, and he reminds us of both the difficulties and the advantages that the Confederation faces in managing natural resources. My only quibble is with the author's periodic descent into hyperbole &amp; the somewhat sloppy repetition of phrases and analogies -occasionally within the same paragraph.  The horrifying facts of the case speak eloquently for themselves and don't really need a journalistic &quot;push&quot; to raise the reader's ire.  Apart from that this book would be a good read for anyone concerned with natural resource exploitation and the complexities of international envirnmental policies.	2000-10-02
US	52864495	RRHMT47BGPIBZ	0674002350	652035475	Sociobiology: The New Synthesis, Twenty-Fifth Anniversary Edition	Books	4	58	64	N	N	A must for every professional bookshelf, but dated	I have felt for years that this is probably the best single reference on behavioural ecology up through 1975 &amp; actively seek out used copies to give my students, so it is nice to see a relatively cheap re-print.  SOCIOBIOLOGY has a massive Lit. Cited (up to date of original publication)  and contains all the really useful bits of Wilson &amp; Bossert's very  useful PRIMER OF POPULATION BIOLOGY.  It also has some lovely examples of  pioneering studies in behavioural ecology that in some cases have been  taken to very exciting &quot;next levels&quot; over the past quarter  century &amp; in other cases still lie fallow.  Wilson's style is readable  and I still feel that this book makes a good foundation block for a  personal library, but it is essential that one gets more recent stuff as  well, including both the critics and the elaborators.  This is the  beginning only.	2000-07-08
US	52864495	R1USWKSWKO55S6	0716745305	979374362	Narrow Roads of Gene Land: The Collected Papers of W. D. Hamilton Volume 1: Evolution of Social Behaviour (Narrow Roads of Gene Land Vol. 1)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	A real gem!	This is an outstanding collection of some of the most important papers in  evolutionary ecology, and when one can get them with Hamilton's wry,  insightful, and occasionally extremely funny commentary, all I can say is  &quot;BUY IT!&quot; No, Hamilton's mathematics is not for the faint of  heart, but even if the thought of equations gives you the willies, you will  find valuable stuff about the nature of science and scientists in the  &quot;interlinear&quot; that links each of the stand-alone papers.  I look  forward to Volume 2 with great excitement!	2000-07-08
US	52864495	R3INBW0O03LIGN	0226668142	552921765	A Naturalist's Guide to the Arctic	Books	5	17	17	N	Y	Beautifully illustrated, elegantly written	This book is a &quot;must have&quot; for the advanced undergraduate, beginning grad student, or serious amateur naturalist interested in the North. While a combination of other books may be more comprehensive, if I  had to trek north to the Yukon, this is what I would throw in my backpack.  Pielou's knowledge and love of the high latitudes bursts through every  page, and the pen and ink illustrations convey a real sense of both fauna  and flora.	2000-05-20
US	52864495	R3VLNA15K7CB4E	0521395887	870701137	A Critique for Ecology	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	A welcome discussion of major issues in ecology	This book takes on some of the fundamental assumptions (and misperceptions) that are commonly presented in Ecology and Environmental Studies.  Writing in a clear and forthright manner Peters lays out  philosophical underpinnings of many of the &quot;sacred cows&quot; that all  too often get tossed out to eager students by reluctant, unwilling  professors who have been drafted into teaching &quot;General Ecology&quot;  when they would much rather be doing their research.  These cows then  wander off and become fixed features of High School texts &amp; wind up  before legislators as accepted wisdom, rather than the tentative (and often  ill-formed) hypotheses that they are. Peters is to be commended by both the  strength and range of his arguments.  This should be &quot;must  reading&quot; for graduate students and advanced undergraduates.	2000-04-11
US	52864495	R1BOLTCKQBFIT1	0674639065	634028169	One Long Argument: Charles Darwin and the Genesis of Modern Evolutionary Thought (Questions of Science)	Books	5	21	24	N	Y	Perhaps the best discussion of Darwinism yet	This is definitely THE book to give friends, students and even enemies who are interested in the theory of Evolution by Natural Selection.  Ernst Mayr, one of the foremost architects of our understanding of the ecological  nature of evolution draws on his immense scholarship to bring us a highly  readable text on the many facets of Darwinism.  I have given this book to  graduate and undergraduate students, we have fought over it in seminars,  and in general it holds a premier place in the library pf anyone with a  genuine interest in understanding one of the key elements of modern  biology.	2000-04-01
US	52864495	RHQXTTY166RE0	0385310692	655425486	Black Ships Before Troy	Books	5	116	123	N	Y	an  excellent introduction to the epic!	Having been brought up in a strong Classical background I was a little nervous of a &quot;modern children's version&quot; of the Illiad.  I shouldn't have worried.  I actually bought BLACK SHIPS for an undergraduate  that I was tutoring on sources of modern British literature, but my 7 year  old daughter took it away before I could get it to the college.  I worried  at first that Clare might be scared by some of the very dramatic pictures,  but she was enthralled with the whole story and kept coming back to it for  days afterwards.  I should add that my undergrad was also entranced once I  finnaly got it to her and felt that it compared very well with the complete  translation of the original that we also read.  New age?  Hardly!  This is  a scholarly-but-fun-interpretaion of a gem.	2000-04-01
US	52864495	R3F2KMWOKJ0S60	0801857074	647051713	Higher Superstition: The Academic Left and Its Quarrels with Science	Books	2	31	76	N	Y	A sad little book on a sad little topic	This COULD have been an intereting discussion of some of the serious in-roads that &quot;postmodernist discourse&quot; has had on the teaching of science in the United States. Unfortunately the authors seem to have  selected the most egregious examples of sheer silliness, and then to have  adopted the shrill sneering tones of their worst enemies in order to  articulate their critique.  While I am anything but a post-modernist it  saddens me no end to see the debate reduced to this level.  Better to  ignore a bad argument altogether than to adopt the tactics of one's foes.	2000-04-01
US	52864495	R11AYILVSTCX2A	0674862503	182622838	Systematics and the Origin of Species from the Viewpoint of a Zoologist	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Still and always a key reference	This book belongs on every serious biologist's bookshelf -when it isn't on your desk, in your easy chair, in the clutches of your students, etc.  Not as &quot;easy a read&quot; as Mayr's more &quot;popular&quot; books like  the wonderful ONE LONG ARGUMENT, this was and is a definitive statement on  key elements of the evolutionary synthesis. Get it &amp; read it!	2000-03-30
US	52864495	RIV8KGU8H6A8Z	0879236612	565057238	Winter Holiday (Godine Storyteller)	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Enchanting. A great adventure book with boys AND girls	I was introduced to Swallows & Amazons by my father more than 30 years ago, so I approached the series with some trepidation when my 6 year old demanded \\"boat stuff\\" to be read to her, afraid that S&A might not have aged well. I shouldn't have worried, Clare is totally enthralled with the books (we are on number 5 & the enthusiasm shows no signs of waning). While some children may find reading to themselves too much until they are 9 or 10, Clare at 6 has no problem following the plots, identifying with the characters, and generally having a good time. I might add that it is also nice having some great female heroine/role models plus some nice male types as well. I recommend the series without reservation	1999-08-12
US	52864495	RPLTLG39M0Q66	0387949151	57752620	The Call of Distant Mammoths: Why the Ice Age Mammals Disappeared	Books	1	14	19	N	N	A real disappointment. Has been done better elsewhere.	I grabbed this book in spite of the title &amp; am sorry that I did.  The subject is fascinating, but the author simply doesn't do it justice.  We get far too much personal anecdote (often without any real conclusion) and far too little real meat. Especially given the controversy (and topicality) of the Pleistocene extinctions &amp; the possible role that early humans played one would hope for something that would inform the educated layperson while energizing the serious student.  Ward is definitely capable of this as shown by his earlier book on living fossils, but somehow he loses his way here. After reading the book I really had to wonder just who it was intended for, it seems to fall between two stools -too technical for the non-scientist &amp; not serious enough (nor with a sufficiently useful list of citations) for the professional. A real pity &amp; one hopes that someone else rises to the challenge.	1998-07-29
US	52864495	R32SASHSPROE11	0226668126	129256661	After the Ice Age: The Return of Life to Glaciated North America	Books	5	39	40	N	N	OUTSTANDING! A wonderful intro. to the Ecology of N. America	This is a marvelous book. I confess that when I first heard that Professor Pielou had written another book my heart sank, as I have found some of her earlier work beyond me (my Statistics professor in Grad school told us straight that &quot;nobody understands Pielou, but they'll be very impressed to see herbook on your shelf.&quot;).  Have no fear!  This is a highly readable highly informative summary of a critical phase in the ecological history of Nort America.  Pielou brings up interesting questions, provides tantalizing hints, presents elegant arguments, and gives clear and forthright explanations.  Beautifully illustrated, easy to read, a must for every advanced undergrad or first year graduate student interested in the field.	1998-07-29
