US	52860427	R180CYMVLNBBBF	9080674737	897160722	Uncovering the Boeing F/A-18 A/B/C/D  Hornet (No. 2)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	If you have the F-16 book, get this one!	This is the second of a series of books coverning selected fighter aircraft in complete detail.  The aouthor's first book covered all aspects of the F-16 and this book does the same for the F/A-18.  From the interior of the aircraft including the cockpit, avionics, engine bays, landing gear, radar, etc to numerous exterior photos, there is enough in this book for the modelbuilder to make an accurate replica of the F/A-18.  Also helpful are close-up photos of weathered Hornets to get that completely accurate look. <br /> <br />Most of the coverage is on USN/USMC Hornets as they are the primary users, but the Hornet has quite a few international users, including Canada, Spain, Australia, Switzerland, Kuwait, and Finland.  It is odd that given Danny Coremans' past life as a crew chief in the Belgian Air Force, most of the photos are of US Hornets and not Spanish Hornets.  Still that doesn't detract from the overall quality of the book, as most of the details are the same, except that most international Hornets (both F/A-18A/B and F/A-18 C/D) have a searchlight, something that American Hornets lack. <br /> <br />Buyers of this book should realize that the Superhornet is not covered yet (pretty obvious since the title doesn't mention F/A-18E/F).  Here's hoping that Daco can do a book on the Superhornet real soon.	2005-04-25
US	52860427	R18YJ6BK3CZ32L	1557500460	730403257	The Battleship Fuso (Anatomy of the Ship)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	One of the best IJN references in English	With the publication of his third book in the Anatomy of the Ship series, Janusz Skulski has produced one of the best single references on any Japanese naval vessel. Most of the best sources for the IJN are unaccessible to the average reader due to language difficulites and Skulski does an admirable job in acccessing Japanese sources. This is an excellect modeler's reference and the drawings are finely detailed.<br />I would give this book five stars if only there were not so many errors in captioning (for examples, please refer to the previous review). There are some mismatched captions, errors in scale, and a badly malformed drawing of the Fuso's mainmast on page 128, but don't let these problems put you off in buying the book. Now I wish Janusz Skulski can do more IJN books! Let's see, some books on the Japanese carriers at Pearl Harbor would do for a start. How about a book on the seaplane cruiser Mogami? Or a book on the destroyer Yukikaze (took part in almost all of the major actions of the war and survived until 1970 in the service of the Taiwanese Navy).	2002-08-27
US	52860427	R1B0NULK1CND1Q	0870213113	396911357	Japanese Cruisers of the Pacific War	Books	5	21	21	N	N	One of the most indispensible resources on the IJN	This book is one of the best English language works on a specific subject, that of the cruisers of the Japanese Navy during World War 2.  During the early phases of World War 2, Japanese cruisers posted an impressive combat record.  The authors are experts on the IJN and many of the sources are unavailable outside Japan<br />For the modeler and historian, all aspects of Japanese heavy and light cruisers are illustrated, including armament, profile drawings, and operational histories. Some of the successes and failures of Japanese design, including the Takao class, possibly the most successful Japanese heavy cruisers to the Mogaim class, which attempted to place a heavy armament on a lightly constructed hull and were considerably overweight and later rebuilt, are explained in great detail<br />The profile drawings are well detailed, albeit extremely small; however they are useful in showing the arrangements of the ships. For the modeler and naval historian, this is a must book.  With the recent proliferation of better detailed IJN cruiser models, this book is needed in any naval library.	2002-08-27
US	52860427	R39YQRK25NZ9VD	0226848620	494073889	The Chinese Bell Murders (Judge Dee Mysteries)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	The best of the Judge Dee Mysteries	The Chinese Bell Murders is another of the classic Judge Dee mysteries authored by Robert Van Gulik.  This book, along with the Chinees Maze Murders, is probably the best of the Judge Dee books.<br />The plot of this story involves three disparate events, a rape/murder, shenanigans in a Buddhist temple where women with fertility problems are apparently giving birth due to divine interventions, and a corrupt businessman who is involved in a bloody family feud.  Along the way, Judge Dee and his assistants have an encounter with the bell that is the title of the story.  Van Gulik ties up everything in a tidy package that is engrossing and gives the reader an insight into ancient China.<br />What is impressive about this book is the historical accuracy and insights about the Chinese character given by Van Gulik, no doubt due to his service in the Dutch foreign service and his credentials as a Sinologist.  The Buddhist influence in T'ang Dynasty China and the corruption of monks was a constant problem and Van Gulik is not complimentary in his portrayal, which is similar to the unfavorable portrayals of Buddhism by Chinese writers throughout history.  Also, the corruption of businessmen in China and the conflict between northern and southern China is well portrayed.  Only a Chinese or somebody who is familiar with China can understand the nuances and conflict.<br />As one of the original five Judge Dee books (this one is the second book in the sequence), the detail and the plot are very much in line with the famous Chinese stories of the day, albeit in a more compact form.  This lends authenticity and makes these stories better than the later Judge Dee stories, which are still good.	2002-08-20
US	52860427	R259WEGMRKPE68	0870212176	707475578	German Cruisers of World War II	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Good , servicable history of German cruisers	This is another one of a series of books by M J Whitley about German warships in World War 2. This volume covers the light and heavy cruisers in service.  <br />In many respects, the service of the heavy and light cruisers was a disappointment.  The light cruisers were plagued by poor construction made necessary by adherance to the terms of the Versailles Treaty and the heavy cruisers had troublesome powerplants that severely restricted their radius of action.  Add to that poor tactics and the results were poor.<br />Whitley gives a relatively good history of the ships as well as internal arrangement drawings.  An interesting drawing is a modification on the incomplete cruiser Seydlitz as an aircraft carrier, an interesting concept similar to the USN light carriers built on light cruiser hulls.  Unfortunately, there are no general arrangement drawings for modelers and errors in proofreading, a problem with most of Whitley's books.  A good reference, but I'm sure there are better books in German.  For now, this is the only English language reference.	2002-08-20
US	52860427	R57WDVFHG8VUC	0921991592	890533885	Grenadiers	Books	5	40	46	N	N	Riveting account of one of the best Waffen-SS commanders	It's great to see that this book is available again.  I got mine a while back when it was hard to find.  Anybody with an interest in military history should get a copy.  Buy it and be enthralled by this account of perhaps one of the most famous commanders in the Waffen-SS<br />Grenadiers is the autobiography of Kurt \\"Panzer\\" Meyer, arguably one of the best, if not the best commander in the Waffen-SS. Panzermeyer's military accomplishments include being one of the most decorated soldiers in the German armed forces during World War 2 (Knight's Cross with Swords and Oakleaves, and probably the Diamonds as well had he not been captured) and a promotion to Brigadier General and command of the 12th SS Panzer Division \\"Hitlerjugend\\" at the age of 33, making him the youngest general on either side during the war. Had he not been captured late in 1944, Panzermeyer would have likely been named commander of the Leibstandarte Adolf Hitler and the Battle of the Bulge could have turned out quite differently.<br />Meyer's account is gripping and grimly realistic, depicting the brutal fighting during the war and the individual bravery of the men under his command.  The career of Kurt Meyer is a microcosm of German fortunes during the war: glory, capture, defeat, and eventual rehabilitation. Meyer comes out as extremely modest (he credits his men for earning him his awards and promotions) and fearless (he led from the front and was wounded numerous times and several of his drivers were killed fighting alongside him). Read Panzermeyer's account of how he led his men and his motivational method in leading his men during the Greek campaign.  I certainly don't think any officer today would toss a hand grenade into his own men to make them advance, but it does show the fighting spirit of the Waffen-SS.<br />As commander of the reconnaisance batallion of of the 1st SS Panzer Division Leibstandarte Adolf Hitler, Meyer earned his reputation as a soldier willing to take risks and thereby gaining tremendous results. His later career in the Hitlerjugend was marked by accusations that he ordered the execution of Canadian prisoners during the fighting in Normandy while in command of the 12th SS Panzer Division. Meyer was sentenced to death, but the sentence was commuted to life imprisonment and was eventually released after serving ten years. One interesting tidbit. Meyer was probably saved by a petition written on his behalf by Cardinal Clemens August Graf von Galen, the archbishop of Muenster and a noted anti-Nazi. Also, Canadian troops were accused of killing German prisoners as well at Normandy.  Even Canadian journalists and officers confirm this in their attempts to overturn what was probably an unjust decision. Passions run hot in battle and unfortunate incidents often occur. Meyer probably had no knowledge of the actions taken by some of his troops (although Wilhelm Mohnke, one of Meyer's regimental commanders, probably condoned the execution of prisoners- Mohnke has been accused of war crimes commited against British prisoners in 1940, against Canadians in 1944, and possibly knowing about/condoning the events in Malmedy during the Battle of the Bulge, although he only served time as a POW and never was placed on trial). Meyer was the victim of victor's justice.<br />Meyer, to his credit showed no rancor towards his captors and frequently praises the bravery of his enemies, including Soviet troops. The book is relatively free of any political views, even though Meyer was a member of the Nazi Party, as were most of the high-ranking SS officers. Some reviewers have noted the wordy style, but that's probably a result of an almost exact translation from the original German (look at the works of the famous German authors like Thomas Mann or Guenther Grass).  It does read rather quickly though, unlike Buddenbrooks by Thomas Mann, but that's a differnt subject!<br />One irony, Meyer died on his 50th birthday while trying to petition the German governmentto grant Waffen-SS veterans the same rights as other German veterans of the war, a goal which remains unfulfilled.	2002-07-17
US	52860427	R207DOBJ3SIOUD	0700611789	234379049	Hitler's Jewish Soldiers: The Untold Story of Nazi Racial Laws and Men of Jewish Descent in the German Military	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Excellent book on an unknown subject	I first learned about the previously unknown subject of Germans of Jewish descent when watching the author of this book being interviewed on NBC's Dateline.  Bryan Mark Rigg examines an unexplored fact, that numerous soldiers in the German Wehrmacht during World War 2 were of partial Jewish descent and some earned the highest honors and decorations.  <br />In fact the chief of staff of the 2nd SS Panzer Division 'Das Reich', Obersturmbannfuehrer (Lt Col) Peter Sommer was of partial Jewish descent and given the strict racial laws of the SS, this was highly unusual.  In the German military, the divisional chief of staff was the de facto commander of the unit and Peter Sommer may have on occasions served as the actual divisional commander, which was the greatest irony of all, given the war record of Das Reich and some of its more controversial actions, especially in France in 1944.<br />An interesting aspect concerning German Jews is that many of them considered themselves completely assimilated in German life and those 'Mischlinge' (the German term for mixed race individuals-this is a perjorative term equivalent to'mongrel' or 'half breed') who served were unaware or unwilling to acknowledge the Holocaust until the end of the war.  Many of these soldiers owed their survival to sympathetic officers and comrades who considered the German racial laws rightfully ridiculous.  Some officers and enlisted personnel of so-called suspicious antecedents even received exemptions from Hitler himself declaring them Aryan and allowing them to serve.<br />An oddity in this book is a quote from Hermann Goering stating that he would protect Jews and indeed two important officers in the Luftwaffe (German Air Force) were half-Jewish:  Helmut Wilberg, one of the most important strategists in the pre-war Luftwaffe and a putative commander of the Luftwaffe until his death in an accident in 1941 and Erhard Milch, who became Head of Production of the Luftwaffe and who ended up tried as a warcriminal.  Rigg notes that Goering's pragmatism outweighed any possible conflicts concerning Nazi racial laws as well as the possibility of Goering's Jewish descent. Rigg notes that Goering's family had Jewish ancestors and other references state that Goering's mother was the mistress of a Jewish nobleman in Imperial Germany and there may have been suspisions that the nobleman was Goering's actual father.<br />Despite the courage of the partial Jewish officers and men in this study (Rigg documents at least 10 winners of the Knight's Cross), their final fate had Germany won the war would have been the same as their Jewish relatives.  In fact, by 1944 most Mischlinge were no longer serving in the military but as forced laborers.<br />An engrossing read and an important comtribution to Holocaust and World War 2 studies.  Don't miss it!	2002-07-15
US	52860427	R1OS027QBAB6VG	0691008531	279706246	Soldiers of Destruction	Books	5	89	93	N	N	A thorough study of a unit of contraditctions	Soldiers of Destruction is a scholarly examination of the 3rd SS Panzer Division Totenkopf, perhaps the most controversial of all the SS divisions.   Charles Sydnor does an excellent job of tracing the origins of Totenkopf  from its origins in the concentration camp system to crack fighting  unit.<br />Perhaps the one personality who permeated the division was Theodor  Eicke, the first commander of Totenkopf and its major personality whose  influence was felt even after his death in combat in 1943.  Eicke's  struggles with Himmler and the Wehrmacht to gain respect and much needed  supplies as well as the various machinations within Nazi Germany's  hierarchy are well detailed.  Eicke was to the Totenkopf what Sepp Dietrich  was to the 1st SS Panzer Division Leibstandarte Adolf Hitler and Paul  Hausser to the 2nd SS Panzer Division Das Reich:  a father figure revered  and respected by his men, but also feared (Eicke often punished his men by  sending them to the camps as inmates but made sure his men had enough  rations and winter clothing in Russia).  <br />The Totenkopf Division fought  primarily on the Eastern Front and gained a reputation as steadfast in  defense.  While the Leibstandarte Adolf Hitler and Das Reich divisions were  the spearheads of the Waffen-SS and took the forefront in the attack, it  was the Totenkopf that held the line in Russia and gained respect from  notable army generals such as Erich von Manstein and Maximilian Von Weichs.   <br />Even with its enviable reputation in battle, the Totenkopf was a unit  of contradictions.  Some of the officers and men who were worthy soldiers  included Otto Baum( holder of the Knights' Cross with Swords and  Oakleaves-no Diamonds, even though he deserved them and Sydnor says that he  won them), the only man to command three different divisions of the SS and  one of the youngest corps commanders when he took temporary command of Das  Reich along with the 17th SS Panzergrenadier Division &quot;Gotz von  Berlichingen&quot;, Georg Bochmann, also a holder of the Swords and a  commander of two different divisions, Karl Ullrich, commander of the combat  engineer batallion, holder of the Oakleaves, and the last commander of the  5th SS Panzer Division &quot;Wiking&quot;, and Fritz Christen, the first  enlisted man in the SS to win the Knights Cross and at the age of 20 the  youngest soldier to be awarded the Ritterkreuz. Totenkopf was awarded 11  Knight's Crosses for actions in the Demyansk pocket, the most Knight's  Crosses awarded to a single unit in one battle. Despite such brave officers  and men, Totenkopf had an unsavory reputation for atrocities and a number  of war criminals did serve in the unit.  Totenkopf was responsible for the  execution of English prisoners of war and French colonial troops in France  in 1940 and was alleged to ahve committed numerous war crimes on the  Russian Front.  Sydnor notes that three Totenkopf officers who later  beccame division commanders were alleged to have been responsible for major  war crimes in the West:  Heinz Lammerding for the massacre at Oradour while  commanding Das Reich in 1944, Hermann Priess for actions during the Battle  of the Bulge while serving as corps commander of the LAH, and Max Simon for  killing Italian civilians in 1944 and executing German civilians in 1945.  Sydnor traces this to the instituion of the camps and the mentality that  resulted from them and the indoctrination of Eicke which makes for an  intersting study and refutes the claim made by some SS members that they  were soldiers like the rest of the German military.  <br />The final fate of  the Totenkopf was in many ways a Goetterdammerung:  Totenkopf managed to  surrender to the Americans in Austria, but its members were handed over to  the Soviets supposedly because it did almost all of its fighting in the  East, a fate not shared by the LAH and Das Reich because they fought  extensively on the Western Front.  Few Totenkopf members survived Sovietcaptivity.<br />An interesting read and a definite must for those interested  in the German military.  Perhaps Professor Sydnor could do a study on the  LAH and Das Reich.	2000-08-10
US	52860427	R1WJEXC2POC1QD	087021974X	918278117	Cruisers of the U.S. Navy, 1922-1962	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Excellent Reference on American Cruisers	It's too bad that Cruisers of the U.S. Navy, 1922-1962 is out of print, as this is one of most indispesible modeler's references available.  The author is a renowned German naval historian whose speciality is the US  Navy(!) and all of his books are meticulously researched.<br />All the  cruisers from the Omaha class to the Long Beach, the first nuclear powered  cruiser built (and depending on your viewpoint, the last purpose built  cruiser of the US Navy, as the Aegis cruisers were originally designated as  destroyers-see Friedman's excellent study) are included.  All details,  including armament fit, camo schemes worn, electronics, ships careers and  final disposition are included.<br />The photographs included are good for the  most part and include enough photos not seen elsewhere.  Stefan  Terzibaschitsch has one of the largest collections of US Navy photos in  Europe and this shows in the book.  One useful photo is a camouflaged USS  Vincennes (sp?) shortly before her sinking in 1942.  All drawings are  1/1250 scale (standard scale for miniature warship models in Europe)but are  clear enough for most modelers.  One interesting drawing is that of the USS  Phoenix in her later guise as the Argentine General Belgrano, which was  sunk by the Royal Navy during the Falklands War.	2000-07-14
US	52860427	R1FVYDXDZ7BRDN	0933126751	728978468	Regia Marina - Italian Battleships of WWII	Books	5	30	31	N	N	An Excellent Reference on Italian Battleships	References on Italian warships of World War 2 in English are rare and that's a shame, because many of the ships in the Italian navy were attractive, sleek and stylish, in keeping with the traditions of that  nation.  Some innovations of Italian naval architects include the  introduction of the triple gun turret and ships with a higher speed than  any other navy.<br />This book, which is intended as part of a series, is an  excellent reference for naval historians and modeler alike.  The history of  all Italian battleships is covered, ranging from the Cavours to the  Littorios (arguably the most attractive battleships around).  Most of the  photographs have not been seen in equivalent publications outside Italy,  since these photos are from private collections.  Photo reproduction  quality is very good, since most of these negatives are well over fifty  years old.  Also useful for the modeler are illustrations of the various  camouflage patterns worn by the battleships during their service and a set  of color chips representing the paints used by the Italian Navy.<br />A must  have for the naval enthusiast.  Now when will the book on Italian cruiser  be released?  I have a bunch of Italian cruiser models in my closet waiting  to be built and I sure would like Messers Grossman and Bagnasco to continue  this series.	2000-06-30
US	52860427	R90FGRF8K3RQY	1885119666	709238508	Men of Steel: I SS Panzer Corps: The Ardennes and Eastern Front, 1944-45	Books	5	52	56	N	N	Reynolds' Best Book to Date	Men of Steel is General Michael Reynolds' third book about the SS and it is his best book to date. The book follows up on the service of the 1st SS Panzer Corps in the latter stages of the war.  As usual, General Reynolds  uses sources from both the German and Allied sides and is very evenhanded  in balancing the political aspects of the SS while admiring the fighting  capabilities of the men who served in the Waffen-SS.  General Reynolds  admoires his subjects while avoiding any revisionist or extremist  views.<br />Particularly impressive is that even in the latter stages of the  war, the 1st SS Panzer Division Leibstandaarte Adolf Hitler and 12th SS  Panzer Division Hitlerjugend managed to perform at high levels despite  taking horrendous losses in both men and equipment.  Both units remained  cohesive fighting units to the end, due to experienced commanders such as  Sepp Dietrich, Max Hansen, Teddy Wisch, Fritz Witt, Panzermeyer, and Max  Wuensche to mention just a few.  Also, General Reynolds got Otto Kumm's  name right, correcting a blatant error in his first book.  The books ends  with the ironical observation of German rearmament in the Cold War period  and praise for the men of the SS as valiant fighters and the heirs to the  traditions of the ancient Germanic tribes.  Recommended reading for  military buffs.  <br />Also, General Reynolds sheds more details on Hitler's  infamous armband order, which was the one event that caused many in the SS  to lose their faith in Hitler (they did not return their armbands and  medals in a chamberpot to Hitler despite certain stories).	2000-06-21
US	52860427	R2BHTO57IDSDZ6	1885119445	159397805	Steel Inferno: I SS Panzer Corps In Normandy	Books	4	6	9	N	N	A Good Account of the German Perspective in Normandy	Steel Inferno is Michael Reynolds' second book detailing the Waffen-SS, this time in France during the Normandy fighting.  Like his book on the Battle of the Bulge, General Reynolds examines the tactics, personalities,  and strategy of the German forces involved, this time the 1st SS Panzer  Korps.  The outstanding fighting formation of the German forces during the  battles in France was the 12th SS Panzer Division &quot;Hitlerjugend&quot;  and General Reynolds devotes much of the book to this unit, which is  justified since the 12th SS was involved in the fighting throughout the  beginning.<br />The Hitlerjugend Divisuion proved itself throughout the  fighting, due in no small part to Kurt &quot;Panzer&quot; Meyer, who was  one of the regimental commanders and later the commanding officer of the  Division after the death of Fritz Witt, the Hitlerjugend's first commander.   General Reynolds quites extensively from the book Grenadiers (see my  Amazon review of this book) and other German sources.  General Reynolds is  also even-handed in his examination of the alleged atrocities commited by  members of the Hitlerjugend and also shows examples of Allied execution of  German prisoners, particularly by Canadian troops (most of the documented  execution of German prisoners by the Western Allies were commited by  Canadians).  General Reynolds is adamant in condemning all such incidents  and is to be praised for being impartial.<br />All in all, a good book, since  most of the politics in the Peiper book were avioded, although Genral  Reynolds' characterization of Panzermeyer being an ardent Nazi may be an  exageration, since Kurt Meyer was praised by many Wehrmacht generals, most  of them who were unlikely to be friendly to Waffen-SS officers.  Gen.  Reynolds mentions Wehrmacht General Heinz Eberbach in his book.  General  Eberbach had the 1st SS Korps under his command and praised Kurt Meyer (and  I think he also testified on behalf of Kurt Meyer during his trial).	2000-05-20
US	52860427	R2KGM2JVFL6GES	067972477X	111847135	I, Claudius From the Autobiography of Tiberius Claudius Born 10 B.C. Murdered and Deified A.D. 54 (Vintage International)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A modern classic-I Claudius	&quot;I Claudius.&quot;  The name conjurs intrigue, violence, good emperors, evil emperors, and above them all an individual who rose to become emperor of Rome in spite of physical handicaps and prejudices.   Robert Graves' classic is an insight into the history of the Claudian  family and in particular Claudius, the despised idiot and stutterer who  outlives all of his relatives to ascend to the throne, a position which he  assumes with reluctance.  <br />If you thought classical history is dull, read  this book and find out that the ancients were just as corrupt and venal as  our modern day politicians.  I suppose the movie Gladiator will rekindle  some interest in Rome.  Read I Claudius and forget Gladiator.  The book is  historically accurate, well written (I am of the opinion that Robert Graves  is the only decent modern English writer-why did he never win the Nobel in  literature?) and despite its length, is a pretty quick lead.  Take your  time though, and savor the characters:  Claudius' brother Germanicus, a  brilliant general and noble spirit who probably would have been an emperor  the equal of Augustus had he lived, Agrippa Posthumous, Augustus' grandson  who was another possible pretender to the throne (who Graves portrays in a  positive light- Suetonius and other Roman writers considered Posthumous a  boor),  the Emperor Tiberius, who was both ruthless and capable, and Livia,  Augustus' wife and the true power behind the throne.  Livia is the glue  which holds the story together and conjures up images of powerful women who  are the real powers (and this book was written in the 1930s!).  Marie  Antoinette, Imelda Marcos, and the present First Lady couldn't compare with  Livia, who is self assured, ruthless, calculating and cared only for the  survival of Rome and the Imperial succession.  Sort of an ancient Catherine  the Great.  And finally, who can forget Caligula, that insane, perverted  maniac who did nasty things to others and attempted to make hishorse First  Consul of Rome.  With a cast like that, who needs soap operas or the WWF?	2000-05-17
US	52860427	R3RFWZYKU9QWL5	1885119151	74879378	The Devil's Adjutant: Jochen Peiper, Panzer Leader	Books	4	12	14	N	N	A good book (despite the inaccurate title)	The Devil's Adjutant by Maj. General (Retired) Michael Reynolds is a good book describing the Battle of the Bulge from both viewpoints (German and American).  The title leads one to believe that it is a biography of Jochen  Peiper, certainly one of the most charismatic (and controversial) figues in  the Waffen-SS.  The biographical info is certainly interesting (especially  since he served as Himmer's aide earlier in the war), but General  Reynold's' main concern is with the the German strategy during the Battle  of the Bulge with Peiper playing a key role in the narrative.  The coverage  of the battle is very accurate and draws from both German and American  sources.<br />Jochen Peiper was certainly a courageous officer, but he is  associated with the massacre of American POWs at Malmedy, a crime for which  he was sentenced to death, but was later overturned due to irregualities in  the prosecution's case.  General Reynolds is even-handed in examining the  evidence for and against Peiper.  Peiper's later life and mysterious death  are covered well.  Among Waffen-SS veterans there is a certain amount of  sentiment that Peiper was a victim as well and the appelation &quot;Der  letzte Gefallene&quot; or the last casualty has been given to him.   Certainly Peiper was taking a great amount of risk by living in France, but  the French government no doubt knew of his past and allowed him to maintain  a residence there. General Reynolds is fair in his assesment that Peiper  was an excellent officer who took some excesses in combat, although his  attempts to link Peiper to Himmler are a bit far-fetched.  The &quot;Final  Solution&quot; and its implementation were in 1942, during a period where  Peiper was engaged in combat on the Eastern Front and it is unlikely that a  junior officer could have had access to sensitive information.  <br />Four  stars for this book, because of the inaccurate title.  Also, there is a  mistake concerning the last commander of the 1st SS PanzerDivision  &quot;LAH.&quot; Otto Kumm was the officer in question, not Krumm.   Oterwise an excellent account although I feel that Steel Inferno by the  same author is probably the better book, as there is less politics in that  book.	2000-05-05
US	52860427	RCQ8UF835T699	0226848787	592358467	The Chinese Maze Murders: A Judge Dee Mystery	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Brilliant!	For the uninitiated, Robert van Gulik's Judge Dee mysteries are absolutely brilliant.  Van Gulik's Judge Dee (based on a historical character) finds himself involved in murders, barbarian plots, and a plan to overthrow the  state in The Chinese Maze Murders.  The settings are historically as  accurate as can be, since van Gulik was one of the leading experts on China  and an expert on Asian affairs, due to his service in the Dutch Foreign  Service.  All of the Judge Dee mysteries show a great deal of  sophistication and detail which is often lacking in the genre.  <br />For  those readers who shy away from mysteries because they seem contrived, get  this (and The Chinese Bell Murders) and be transported to another time and  place.  I don't care for mysteries myself, but the history and exotic  locales penned by van Gulik made me a fan!	2000-04-26
US	52860427	R2NF7M4Z4NCPRD	0201199122	595260549	Discrete and Combinatorial Mathematics: An Applied Introduction (4th Edition)	Books	4	19	20	N	N	A math book that's actually understandable	Finally!  A  math book which is acutally well written, has enough examples to illustrate key concepts, and has enough problems to keep the math student busy.  Discrete mathematics is a fairly involved subject and books on the topic range from relatively basic to extremely difficult treatises  which only a PhD or a math professor could understand. Discrete and  Combinatorial Mathematics : An Applied Introduction by Ralph Grimaldi is a  book which will appeal to both sides of the spectrum.  The book is written  so that most undergraduate students will have little difficulty  understanding, but graduate students will also find it indispensable as a  reference.  The illustrated examples are actually relevant to the homework  problems, which is often missing in mathematical texts.  Finally, the book  does not try to overwhelm the reader with lofty proofs or stilted language.  Each chapter builds on the previous subjects learned.  That's all I can  ask for in a math text.  I like the coverage of combinatorics in the first  chapter, which does a better job than many probability textbooks.  And be  sure to understand Euclid's theroem  and the examples given in the book.  Quite a few high-tech companies will ask you about the problem Grimaldi  gives as an example of Euclid's theorem in their job interviews.	2000-04-24
US	52860427	R2HF95IQOO96O3	3880140006	37440462	Grenadiere (German Edition)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Gripping acoount by one of the best Waffen-SS Commanders	Grenadiere (English translation Grenadiers) is the autobiography of Kurt &quot;Panzer&quot; Meyer, arguably one of the best, if not the best commanders in the Waffen-SS.  Kurt Meyer's military accomplishments include  being one of the most decorated soldiers in the German armed forces during  World War 2 (Knight's Cross with Swords and Oakleaves, and likely the  Diamonds as well had he not been captured) and a promotion to General and  command of the 12th SS Panzer Division &quot;Hitlerjugend&quot; at the age  of 33, making him the youngest general on either side during the war.   Meyer's account is gripping and grimly realistic, depicting the brutal  fighting during the war and the individual bravery of the men under his  command.<br />The career of Kurt Meyer is a microcosm of German fortunes  during the war:  glory, capture, defeat, and eventual rehabilitation.   Meyer comes out as extremely modest (he credits his men for earning him his  awards and promotions) and fearless (he led from the front and was wounded  numerous times and several of his drivers were killed fighting alongside  him).  As commander of the reconnaisance batallion of of the 1st SS Panzer  Division &quot;LAH&quot;, Meyer earned his reputation as a soldier willing  to take risks.  His later career in the Hitlerjugend was marked by  accusations that he ordered the execution of Canadian prisoners during the  fighting in Normandy while in command of the 12th SS Panzer Division.   Meyer was sentenced to death, but the sentence was commuted to life  imprisonment and eventually Meyer was released after serving ten years.   One interesting tidbit.  Meyer was probably saved by a petition written on  his behalf by Cardinal Clemens August Graf von Galen, the archbishop of  Muenster and a noted anti-Nazi.  Also, Canadian troops were accused of  killing German prisoners as well at Normandy (also, Robert Graves mentions  in his own autobiography that Canadian troops frequently murdered German  prisoners during World War 1). Even Canadian journalists and officers  confirm this in their attempts to overturn what was probably an unjust  decision.  Passions run hot in battle and unfortunate incidents often  occur.  Meyer probably had no knowledge of the actions taken by some of his  troops (although Wilhelm Mohnke, one of Meyer's regimental commanders,  probably condoned the execution of prisoners- Mohnke has been accused of  war crimes commited against British prisoners in 1940, against Canadians in  1944, and possibly knowing about the events in Malmedy, although he only  served time as a POW and never was placed on trial).  Meyer was the victim  of victor's justice.<br />Meyer, to his credit showed no rancor towards his  captors and frequently praises the bravery of his enemies, including Soviet  troops.  The book is relatively free of any political views, even though  Meyer was a member of the Nazi Party, as were most of the high-ranking SS  officers.  There is an English language version of the book out, so if it  is available, buy it and be enthralled.  One irony, Meyer died on his 50th  birthday while trying to petition the German government to grant Waffen-SS  veterans the same rights as other German veterans of the war, a goal which  remains unfulfilled.	2000-04-13
US	52860427	RZT3YNV3AA8KX	1571690956	937881826	Data Structures & Algorithms in Java (Mitchell Waite Signature Series)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	One of the best Data Structures books around	I am surprised that most instructors haven't banned this book!  It is absolutely one of the best data structures references on the market and with answers provided with the enclosed CD, one perfect &quot;cheat  book.&quot;  Virtually all the standard data structures for an introductory  DS&amp;A course are included here with a good explanation behind the  rationale used in the implementation of the code.  Lafore is a good writer  and explains things well, unlike certain authors.  The book isn't heavy on  the mathematics, which is good for programmers who don't want to get  involved with theory.  The applets which implement the data structures are  particularly nice.<br />As mentioned in a previous review, trees are not  covered well in this book, but most introductory books don't cover them  well either.  I don't expect to see an analysis of AVL or red-black trees  in an introductory book (Cormen's text, which is the standard for grad  school, doesn't explain trees well either).  In fact, only Schaffer's book  does a creditable job of explaining AVL trees but the implementation of the  code isn't the greatest. But for linked lists, stacks,queues, and the like,  there are few books that are the equal of this one.  Buy the book and  you'll pass your DS&amp;A class with flying colors!	2000-04-01
US	52860427	R2NFY99GXIMMLV	1557501416	959610018	Cruisers of World War Two: An International Encyclopedia	Books	3	17	19	N	N	Decent Book-Nothing to Write Home About	Cruisers of World War 2 is a compilation of all the cruisers in existence during World War 2.  All operational details and a history of cruisers of the major combatatants and neutral powers is included.  The photo selection  is good and the coverage of ships belonging to neutral contries is welcome-  I bet most people didn't know that Argentina had three modern cruisers in  commision during World War 2- two Italian designed and built heavy cruisers  and one British built light cruiser/cadet training ship.<br />All in all a  pretty decent reference, but the drawings are of little use except to show  a basic layout- no good for modelers.  Also there are some miscaptionings  and factual errors, an unfortunate feature in almost all of Whitley's  books.  Examples- the photo captioned as HMS Dehli is of a different ship.   Dehli had American pattern 5 inch guns and the ship in question still has  her original British armament.  Also, my copy of the book is missing the  operational history of HMS Bermuda of the Fiji class.  There is supposed to  be a reprint which hopefully corrects these mistakes, but sloppy work  should not be tolerated, especially from the Naval Institute Press.	2000-03-27
US	52860427	R1GXH6CI5UVMFA	0764301349	34455862	Himmler's Bosnian Division: The Waffen-SS Handschar Division 1943-1945	Books	4	7	11	N	N	A Good Introduction to the Handschar Division	George Lepre's study of the Bosnian Moslem volunteers in Waffen-SS service is a good overview of a llittle-known unit and the religious and enthnic hatred whick has plagues the Balkans for centuries.  Lepre details the  formations of the 13-Freiwillige Gebirgsdivision der Waffen-SS from its  formation to the end of the war.  The conflicting loyalties and aims of the  Bosnian volunteers and their German masters is well-detailed, especially  the attempted mutiny of 1944 when members of the division killed their  training officers in France.  The Bosnians had as their goal a purely  self-defense force against Serb depradations while the Germans considered  the Bosnians as pawns in a greater struggle against Bolshevism.  In  addition, prejudices on the part of the Germans in considering their  charges as racial inferiors or &quot;Untermenschen&quot; played a part in  the abortive uprising.<br />As a combat formation, the Handschar was less than  proficient, although the later German supplied commanders did their best to  make something of the men they commanded.  It should be noted that the  fighting ability of the division improved when most of the Bosnian elements  were disbanded and Germans were used to replace them.  <br />The division did  commit war crimes against Serbs, although in the context of past events and  the status of the former Yugoslavia, they may have felt justified in their  acts.  This is one part which Lepre does not mention, but at least it makes  the book as less lurid and well thought out.<br />Some food for thought.   Lepre mentions that the Bosnians wanted to become part of the Reich and  enjoy German protection.  Perhaps the Bosnians were better off when they  were part of the Austro-Hungarian empire and they did look upon the Germans  with favor.  Today Bosnia and Kosovo are NATO protectorates with German  peacekeepers serving.  The US tried to form a multiethnic Bosnian army  (shades of the Handschar?) and the KLA and NATO co-exist albeit uneasily.   Lepre's book is a good background and shows that history does repeat  itself.	2000-02-03
US	52860427	R29LPKFAW3ENY1	0870213261	77746438	Destroyers of World War Two: An International Encyclopedia	Books	4	25	27	N	N	A good effort	Destroyers of World War Two : An International Encyclopedia is an excellent effort by an author whose work has often been marred by factual errors.  The information contained in this volume is for the most part  correct and most of the photos are different enough from other reference  books.  All particulars on destroyers of the various nations during World  War 2 are listed here, including the ships of combatant and neutral  nations. Whitley's definition of 'destroyer' is rather loose, as it does  include fleet torpedo boats of over 200 tons, but essentially any vessel  armed with torpedos and powered by steam or diesel propulsion and able to  operate with major fleet combatatants is considered a destroyer in this  book:  therefore the US Navy destroyer escorts, which could be categorized  as frigates under a different classification system, are included in this  volume. The inclusion of the destroyers of neutral nations is welcome since  much of this information is not available elsewhere.<br />As a reference, this  is a pretty useful book but the drawings are not the book's high point.   The poor drawings are a feature of all the books of the series.   As I have  an older edition, I assume this reprint is pretty much the same; however it  is good to see this book back in print.  All we need is for the submarine  encyclopedia to be reprinted for the entire series to be complete.	2000-01-31
US	52860427	RP9BGKB8VW5E5	0201357445	60089749	Data Structures & Other Objects Using Java	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Not Too Bad	Data Structures &amp; Other Objects Using Java is a pretty good introduction to data structures.  The author's purpose is not to teach Java itself and there are numerous books which do that.  The author does a good  job of explaining methods using simple examples and the writing style is  pretty clear compared to some books on the subject.<br />There are some  problems with the code itself and unfortunately you need to import packages  and classes from the author's website in order to run his examples, which  is not so good, but that's what data structures is about.  Get this book  for an intro, but also complement it with a couple of books with more  mathematical rigor, like Cormen's monster creation or Schaffer's book.   That's what I had to do in my introductory Data Structures course, since  the instructor used Schaffer's book for the code.	2000-01-20
US	52860427	R3SDRJ506S3QVE	020150037X	883932749	Probability and Random Processes for Electrical Engineering (2nd Edition)	Books	2	13	16	N	N	Not the best book available on the subject	Probability and Random Processes for Electrical Engineering is not a very well-written book.  The book seems to be gaining more favor with EE and computer science programs, not because of the quality of the book, but  rather the need to standardize on texts, regardless of the quality.<br />The  book itself is extremely sketchy and lacks mathematical rigor, perhaps  because it is supposed to be meant for engineers and not for math majors,  but even so it does not explain its subject very well, even though preface  states that it is accessible.  For example, the concept of counting theory  is extremely important in probabiity, but the author devotes a total of six  pages to the subject and even notes that counting theory can be skipped  without loss of continuity.  I don't think so!  Also the author's  definitions of discrete and continous sample spaces are not quite  correct.<br />There are not enough examples outlined in the book and many of  the homework problems have little relevance to the examples presented.  A  good instructor could make something out of this book, but be sure to get a  Schaum's outline for more problems and another text to complement this one.	2000-01-20
US	52860427	R1HZ3WEVDWFOWZ	155750671X	659241175	Warships of the USSR and Russia 1945-1995	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good Reference on the Soviet Navy	This book is perhaps the first of its subject to use first hand sources.  The various developments of Soviet naval vessels post-war is outlined plus a history of each vessel is mentioned.  The book is at its best in giving  the bureau number and designation as given by the Soviets, unlike most  Western books which use NATO nomenclature.  For the first time, many  significant ships, especially the submarine classes, are outlined.<br />My  only complaints are with the illustrationsand paper quality.  The drawings  are not to a consistent scale and many of them are rendered in a heavy  black ink which makes details hard to distinguish.  Photo quality could be  better, but of course Cold War era photos of any quality are hard to come  by.  Photo and drawing reproduction quality could be improved if the book  wwas printed on glossy paper (a suggestion for the next edition).	1999-12-27
US	52860427	RS37L4KEXNEA1	155750069X	349487995	Battleships of the World	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Not as Bad a Book as You Think	From the reviews seen here, one would think that Greger's book is a complete dog; but it's not that bad.  One thing that Greger does well is his description of the ships of the minor naval powers such as the  Austro-Hungarian and South American navies.  It seems as if there is more  of an emphasis on German ships, which is refreshing as there is not as much  information on the Imperial German navy and Kriegsmarine as there should  be.  Also interesting are the drawings of the projected Soviet  dreadnoughts.<br />A pretty good effort, definitely on a par with anything  written by M. J.Whitley, and in some respects better than Whitley's latest  effort on battleships.  Don't write this one off completely!	1999-12-26
US	52860427	R3JX2JIWRZNLOK	1557503540	484455740	The Heavy Cruiser Takao (Anatomy of the Ship)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	The Best Book by Skulski	Janusz Skulski is probably one of the foremost IJN experts outside of Japan and his books are known for their meticulous research and first class drawings.  Skulski uses sources in Japan with ties to the IJN and this is  reflected in his books.  This effort on the cruiser Takao is probably his  best effort, with more information than the Yamato book (of course, the  Yamato was sunk and information on her is sparse-Takao survived the war,  albeit in a damaged state) and none of the editing flaws which marred his  latest book on the Fuso.  <br />The drawings are worth the price of the book  and contain enough information for the modeler to scratchbuild or improve  the only Takao model on the market, which is a pretty bad one.  A must for  any ship modeler or historian, especially since the only other book  comparable to this one is written in Japanese.	1999-12-26
US	52860427	R3FLZI9APV7MAK	155750184X	728350717	Battleships of World War Two: An International Encyclopedia	Books	3	17	19	N	N	A Pretty Good Effort	Battleships of World War Two : An International Encyclopedia by Whitley is actually pretty good, especially compared to some of his other efforts.  There seem to be fewer editorial errors compared to his book on cruisers  and all in all the historical information is useful.  Modelers should note  that the drawings are pretty useless, which is consistent with the books in  this series.<br />Fortunately, this book seems to be complete, especially if  you have Whitley's cruiser book, which is missing the combat history of the  British cruiser HMS Bermuda (and not HMS Jamaica, as was mentioned in my  Amazon review of Cruisers of World War Two).  A pretty good effort, but if  you want completeness and better illustrations, go for the Garzke and Dulin  series on battleships.	1999-12-26
US	52860427	RS50E2O35TS0P	087021893X	849609832	Warships of the Imperial Japanese Navy, 1869-1945	Books	4	23	24	N	N	The most complete single reference on the IJN	Warships of the Imperial Japanese Navy, 1869-1945 is the culmination of three German naval historians in ttempting to document every combatant to serve in the Imperial Japanese Navy.  This is the most complete book on the  IJN available and contains excellent data on all major and minor  warships.<br />A useful reference for the modeler, the only weakness is the  size of the illustrations, which are mostly in 1/1200 scale.  The original  German edition had better line drawings, but few photos.  The strength of  this English edition is the collection of photos, many not seen outside of  Japan until now.  I would rate this as a 4 1/2 star effort and definitely  superior to the book by Watts on the same subject.	1999-12-26
US	52860427	R204ZDK1FMMH79	0870211005	112392179	Battleships: Allied Battleships in World War II	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A must for any naval collection	The Battleships trilogy by Garzke and Dulin is probably one of the most meticulously researched books on warships ever.  The authors are naval architects and one of them is a former naval officer, so they know their  subject inside and out.  The drawings are certainly impressive and very  useful to any modeler or historian of the subject.<br />The projected designs  of battleships never built by the major naval powers is a distinctive  feature of this series and certainly interesting, considering that many of  these designs were paper studies.  The bibliography of the books show the  tremendous research put in by the authors, who spared no effort in writing  to eminent naval researchers abroad.  A must buy!	1999-12-26
US	52860427	R23PLZUHTQCBSJ	076430769X	128091079	002: Waffen-SS Commanders: The Army, Corps and Divisional Leaders of a Legend: Krger to Zimmermann (Schiffer Military History)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent Study of SS Commanders	If you have Part 1 of Yerger's study, be sure to get this book. It follows up his previous book in the same fashion. Yerger obviously has great sympathy for his subjects, but is willing to criticize those Waffen SS commanders who in his view were less than professional soldiers, especially the Higher SS and Police leaders who were given commands because of their political loyalties rather than their skills in combat. This contrast is shown in the section on the Krueger brothers, the only two brothers to achieve general rank in the SS. Walter Krueger, who was renowned for his command of the Das Reich division is favorably mentioned, as befits his combat leadership and prowess in battle, while his brother Friederich-Wilhelm, who rose through the ranks of the Polizei, is described as \\"a career SS officer with an interest in power and was brutal in controlling his administration within the General Government (of German-occupied Poland).\\" Officers who conducted themselves as worthy soldiers in Volume 2 include Felix Steiner, Kurt \\"Panzer\\" Meyer, Sylvester Stadler who ordered an immediate inqiry into the events at Oradour, one of the war crimes which the SS was accused of-a controversial event even today. Stadler was temporary commander of Das Reich and ordered a court-martial of the officer accused of the massacre of civilians of that village) and many others. In Volume 1, commanders such as Paul Hausser, Otto Baum, Heinrich Harmel (whose professionalism and humane treatment of prisoners and civilians during the Battle of Arnhem was praised by the Allies) and Karl Kreutz, are praised for their military compentency and bravery in combat while commanders who never faced true combat formations, for example Friederich Jeckeln, Curt von Gottberg, Erich von dem Bach-Zelewski(who testified for the prosecution at Nuremberg not because of any remorse but instead out of self-preservation) are not looked upon with much sympathy. <br />Such criticism is refreshing, especially with regards to a subject as controversial as the Waffen SS. Certainly there were some SS commanders who were either overrated or extremely brutal, but the vast majority conducted themselves in as professional a manner as any commander on the winning side. That they served an ideology which was evil does not diminish their service to their country and Yerger depicts this in a non-judgmental way.	1999-12-25
US	52860427	R22UMK5MZAV4UQ	1557500460	730403257	The Battleship Fuso (Anatomy of the Ship)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Excellent Reference	With the publication of this third book in the Anatomy of the Ship series, Janusz Skulski has produced one of the best single references on any Japanese naval vessel. Most of the best sources for the IJN are unaccessible to the average reader due to language difficulites and Skulski does an admirable job in acccessing Japanese sources. This is an excellect modeler's reference and the drawings are finely detailed; I would give this book five stars if only there were not so many errors in captioning (for examples, please refer to the previous review). There are some mismatched captions, errors in scale, and a badly malformed drawing of the Fuso's mainmast on page 128, but don't let these problems put you off in buying the book. Now I wish Janusz Skulski can do more IJN books! Let's see, some books on the Japanese carriers at Pearl Harbor would do for a start. How about a book on the seaplane cruiser Mogami? Or a book on the destroyer Yukikaze (took part in almost all of the major actions of the war and survived until 1970 in the service of the Taiwanese Navy).	1999-12-25
US	52860427	R8N8MEKCFB0KV	076430769X	128091079	002: Waffen-SS Commanders: The Army, Corps and Divisional Leaders of a Legend: Krger to Zimmermann (Schiffer Military History)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Excellent Study of SS Commanders	If you have Part 1 of Yerger's study, be sure to get this book.  It follows up his previous book in the same fashion.  Yerger obviously has great sympathy for his subjects, but is willing to criticize those Waffen  SS commanders who in his view were less than professional soldiers,  especially the Higher SS and Police leaders who were given commands because  of their political loyalties rather than their skills in combat.  This  contrast is shown in the section on the Krueger brothers, the only two  brothers to achieve general rank in the SS.  Walter Krueger, who was  renowned for his command of the Das Reich division is favorably mentioned,  as befits his combat leadership and prowess in battle, while his brother  Friederich-Wilhelm, who rose through the ranks of the Polizei, is described  as &quot;a career SS officer with an interest in power and was brutal in  controlling his administration within the General Government (of  German-occupied Poland).&quot; Officers who conducted themselves as worthy  soldiers in Volume 2 include Felix Steiner, Kurt &quot;Panzer&quot; Meyer,  Sylvester Stadler who ordered an immediate inqiry into the events at  Oradour, one of the war crimes which the SS was accused of-a controversial  event even today.  Stadler was temporary commander of Das Reich and ordered  a court-martial of the officer accused of the massacre of civilians of that  village) and many others.  In Volume 1, commanders such as Paul Hausser,  Otto Baum, Heinrich Harmel (whose professionalism and humane treatment of  prisoners and civilians during the Battle of Arnhem was praised by the  Allies) and Karl Kreutz, are praised for their military compentency and  bravery in combat while commanders who never faced true combat formations,  for example Friederich Jeckeln, Curt von Gottberg, Erich von dem  Bach-Zelewski(who testified for the prosecution at Nuremberg not because of  any remorse but instead out of self-preservation) are not looked upon with  much sympathy.<br />Such criticism is refreshing, especially with regards to  a subject as controversial as the Waffen SS.  Certainly there were some SS  commanders who were either overrated or extremely brutal, but the vast  majority conducted themselves in as professional a manner as any commander  on the winning side.  That they served an ideology which was evil does not  diminish their service to their country and Yerger depicts this in a  non-judgmental way.br />Such criticism is refreshing, especially with regards to  a subject as controversial as the Waffen SS.  Certainly there were some SS  commanders who were either overrated or extremely brutal, but the vast  majority conducted themselves in as professional a manner as any commander  on the winning side.  That they served an ideology which was evil does not  diminish their service to their country and Yerger depicts this in a  non-judgmental way.	1999-12-25
US	52860427	RIACLGNQ7NN4F	0764303562	662954721	Waffen-SS Commanders: The Army, Corps and Divisional Leaders of a Legend: Augsberger to Kreutz (v. 1)	Books	5	24	27	N	N	Excellent Reference	Waffen-SS Commanders is a two-part series on the major commanders of the Waffen-SS, perhaps the most controversial fighting formation in history.  Yerger's sympathies with his subjects shows, but he is willing to  distinguish between SS officers who conducted themselves in a professional  manner and proved themselves in combat and the political favorites of  Himmler who rose from the ranks of the German Polizei and whose units were  particularly brutal in anti-partisan operations but were no match against  professional soldiers.  Examples of the former include Otto Baum, Heinz  Harmel (whose treatment of prisoners and civilians at Arnhem earned praise  from the Allies-General Harmel is still alive and at nearly 100 years of  age still conducts his daily life in the same way as he did as a soldier),  Paul Hausser and others.  The lesser lights among the commanders of the  Waffen SS include Friderich Jeckeln, Curt von Gottberg, and Erich von dem  Bach-Zelewski, who testified for the prosecution at Nuremberg out of  survival and not remorse for any actions-his brutality during the 1944  Warsaw uprising and his granting of POW status to Polish insurgents to  insure that he would not be branded a war criminal in the eventuality of a  German defear are documented by Yerger.  To his credit, von den Bach did  not renege on his promise to the Poles, although had Germany somehow won  the war or negotiated a separate peace with the West, the Poles probably  would have suffered a different fate.<br />As controversial a subject as the  Waffen-SS was, not all of the commanders could be considered brutal  criminals or incompetent as portrayed by revisionist history.  To be sure,  they served an ideology which was evil and most of the commanders were  members of the NSDAP, but the majority of SS commanders were in fact  professional soldiers equivalent to their army counterparts in the  Wehrmacht.  Most of these commanders did conduct themselves in a correct  manner and fought withhonor for their country, even if the regime they  served had few redeeming qualities.  It is a tribute to these commanders  that the Waffen-SS still arouses much passion, even today, and most modern  armies today use tactics and innovations which originated with the  Waffen-SS over 50 years ago.	1999-12-25
US	52860427	RTBYPFVJIQL56	020150037X	883932749	Probability and Random Processes for Electrical Engineering (2nd Edition)	Books	1	3	3	N	N	Not a well-written book	This book is a confusing muddle and for students who have no prior knowledge of the subject, it could not be a worse textbook.  It seems as if more graduate programs in electrical and computer engineering are using  this text, not because it teaches the subject well, but &quot;to keep up  with the Joneses,&quot; so to speak.  There are too few examples to  illustrate problems, and many of the homework exercises are not well  explained and have no relevance to the text.  The text itself is too bare  bones. The introduction uses the words easily accessible or similar terms  to describe the book, but that is not true.  In the hands of a good  lecturer/professor, it may be worthwhile but if you are taking a class with  a bad lecturer who is using this text,then you are in deep trouble!  Caveat  emptor!	1999-12-13
US	52860427	R3ELQMDV6TGMF4	0723244049	544385617	Beatrix Potter: The Complete Tales	Books	5	24	26	N	N	A Timeless Classic	These stories are a timeless classic meant as much for adults as children.  Far from being dark stories (Grimm's Fairy Tales are far more darker and contain more unpleasant themes than Beatrix Potter's stories), they  reinforce many important life lessons and will still be around long after  Pokemon becomes a footnote of the past.	1999-12-13
US	52860427	RQGUZIRIA5SC2	1557501416	959610018	Cruisers of World War Two: An International Encyclopedia	Books	3	11	12	N	N	A Good, Basic Reference	Cruisers of World War Two: An International Encyclopedia is a good reference on the cruisers of all the combatant nations of World War 2.  All details are given concerning number of ships in the class, dimensions, weapons, operational history, and final disposition.  The selection of photos is good; however as a modeler's reference, it falls short, primarily because the drawings are basic, showing little detail.  A word of caution; in my copy of this book, the operational history of HMS Jamaica of the British Fiji class is not included.	1998-07-16
US	52860427	RAD9R6MN8WR4	0870213113	396911357	Japanese Cruisers of the Pacific War	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Best IJN Book in English	This is possibly the best book on a specific aspect of the Imperial Japanese Navy available in the English language. The authors are well-known experts on the Japanese navy and this book makes use of primary and secondary sources unavailable outside Japan. <br />For the modeler and historian, all aspects of Japanese heavy and light cruisers are illustrated, including armament, profile drawings, and operational histories. The profile drawings are well detailed, albeit extremely small; however they are useful in showing the arrangements of the ships. A caveat, this book is BIG, weighing at almost eight pounds, but for the naval historian/modeller,it is absolutely indispensable.	1998-07-15
