US	52865843	R3EPC5ZNPFQY68	0767905288	579302723	The O'Reilly Factor: The Good, the Bad, and the Completely Ridiculous in American Life	Books	3	2	4	N	N	The Oreilly Factor	Bill Oreilly has a popular show on every weekday on the Fox News channel where he rails against government waist, hypocrisy, and corruption, plus that of non-governmental but famous personalities.  I had actually never seen his show until after I decided to download the audio version of his book.  The book is basically Oreilly's take on just about everything under the sun.  If he doesn't make his thoughts clear enough in sections about parenting, dating, marriage, etc., he gives you whole lists of what he considers \\"good\\" and \\"bad\\" at the end of the book.<br />Oreilly, for those who don't know much about him, is pretty conservative, but unlike other conservative commentators, he does at least conduct himself with some degree of fairness.  Yes, he sometimes berates his guests, but he also is self-deprecating and often gives certain argued points to his opponents.  So he is infuriating, annoying, and somehow ingenuous all at the same time.  This book is not exactly like his show because he does not have any opponent to bounce his views off of.  It is simply him telling you his opinions.  Some of them are right on, others are naïve, but many are simply his own personal tastes, and unless you take them for that and that alone, you will inevitably become angry.  Even the staunches conservatives will disagree with him on many issues.  For example he is actually a proponent of government regulation in some areas where he deems it safety and economic security vital - such as the airlines and the power industry.  He is not espousing views here in so general a way that most people will agree with him.  Perhaps he is even intentionally trying to reil people up.  But so many people feel that they have to agree with him on everything in order to respect him.  These are opinions, people.  I would not go looking to Oreilly for marital advice, but it is awfully fun hearing about a guy's perspective on things who isn't afraid of being politically correct.  It is refreshing.  Some of it may be close-minded, but not in the obnoxious way as a morning shock-jock.<br />I would definitely recommend this book (or even better one of the audio versions read by Oreilly himself) if you feel like getting an unabashed point of view from one of the more outspoken journalists/commentators of today, but if you are seriously offended by opinion that does not fit into your own narrow spectrum (whether you are liberal or conservative) his book will only cause you serious vexation.f it may be close-minded, but not in the obnoxious way as a morning shock-jock.<br />I would definitely recommend this book (or even better one of the audio versions read by Oreilly himself) if you feel like getting an unabashed point of view from one of the more outspoken journalists/commentators of today, but if you are seriously offended by opinion that does not fit into your own narrow spectrum (whether you are liberal or conservative) his book will only cause you serious vexation.	2001-02-04
US	52865843	R3QG8T5OSME890	0446608246	454735144	The Protein Power Lifeplan Gram Counter	Books	4	149	157	N	N	Portable companion guide to ideas in Protein Power Lifeplan	Protein Power Lifeplan graham counter<br />The Protein Power Lifeplan Gram Counter is a companion to Dr. Michael Eades' and Mary Dan Eades', M.D.'s recent \\"Protein Power Lifeplan,\\" a follow-up to their popular \\"Protein Power\\" which was published in 1995.  The Eades are a husband-and-wife team that has a joint practice where they dish out the same advice as in their books - that of a restricted carbohydrate diet.  But unlike the much more popular Dr. Atkins Diet, the Eades concentrate much more on gaining the best nutritional bang for your buck on the few (at least on the initial phase of the diet) carbohydrates you can have on their diet.  The gram counter is helpful as it counts not only carbohydrates, but also fiber, protein and the breakdown of different fats that make up their nutritional philosophy.<br />This gram counter does not go into the philosophy behind their diet, so I'll try to summarize it here: it is not fat that makes us fat, gives us diseases like diabetes, heart disease, high blood pressure, etc.  Rather it is sugar.  Starches, since they are basically the same thing as sugar (just chained together and easily broken into their component sugars in the digestive process), are counted as well.  The body produces the hormone insulin when carbs are ingested.  The more carbs we have in our diet, the more insulin is produced.  Insulin is used by the body to remove sugar from the bloodstream, where it can cause harm.  Unfortunately, according to the Eades, the insulin that removes it can also cause devastating harm, including all the above-mentioned ailments and then some.  In addition, when exposed to these large amounts of insulin, the body slowly becomes more and more resistant to the hormone and the body has to produce more of it to have the same effect, so it is a vicious cycle.  The end of this cycle results when the body is so resistant that it simply can't produce enough and adult onset diabetes occurs.<br />Of course the Eades are quick to point out that this is a theory that has not been proven via huge double blind scientific studies, but rather hinted at by smaller studies indicating the validity of components of the theory.  However, they also point out that the whole idea behind fat causing all these health problems in the first place is also just that - an IDEA.  It is a hypothesis that the whole medical industry latched onto 25 or 30 years ago, because it made some logical sense at the time, and has only recently started to let go on the edges despite there being absolutely no proof that low fat diets are conducive to health, and many that indicate the exact opposite.<br />The carbohydrates listed are based on the \\"Effective Carbohydrate Count\\" or ECC, which subtracts the amount of grams of fiber from the total carbohydrate count to give a more accurate nutritional picture, since the normal digestive process does not absorb fiber.<br />As far as the fat breakdown in the gram counter goes, they break fats down into mono-unsaturated fats and saturated fats, as well as both Omega-6 fatty acids and Omega-3 fatty acids.  The media and medical communities have concentrated on saturated versus unsaturated fats, missing many finer points that the Eades contend are important in terms of fat consumption.  According to them, the body needs all types of fat and can actually saturate and desaturate dietary fat when needed.  What is more important to look at, they say, is whether the fat is one containing primarily Omega-6 fatty acids as opposed to Omega-3's.  Most people get way too much Omega-6 compared to Omega-3 because most of the polyunsaturated vegetable oils used for cooking both commercially and in the home contain mostly Omega-6.  Omega-3's are found in fairly less common items like some fish like sardines, salmon, tuna, and cod-liver-oil.  Though they do not specify these in the gram counter, in the main book, they do continually stress the importance of avoiding \\"trans-fats\\" which are fats (primarily soybean but also other vegetable oils) that have been synthetically altered in order to stay solid at room temperatures.  These are in most processed foods (look for the words \\"partially hydrogenated\\"), plus just about all mayonnaise and margarine.  The body does not know what to do with these fats because they aren't natural, so it just uses them in its cells like all other fat, and this can cause many health problems.  The Eades suggest using only butter (also clarified butter), olive oil, and nut oils for cooking, sauces, etc., canola-oil mayonnaise, and avoiding foods that contain anything other than these oils, and especially anything with trans fats.<br />Basically, the book is not of much use without the underlying theories behind it, but as long as you understand these, it is of enormous help.  I would have preferred some sort of indication of trans-fats and perhaps a rating of how good a particular food was in terms of its anti-oxidant content, but I guess you can't have everything!  Adding these other readings might have added too much bulk to the book.  Right now it is slightly smaller than most small soft cover books, and is less than half an inch thick, yet covers all food groups in good detail.  It is organized well and it does not take you a couple of minutes to sort through all the myriad varieties of different foods, the way some of the more comprehensive food counters do.  I guess it depends on what you're looking for - portability or thoroughness, though even the most thorough of the other food counters do not break foods down into Omega-6 and Omega-3 fatty acids.soybean but also other vegetable oils) that have been synthetically altered in order to stay solid at room temperatures.  These are in most processed foods (look for the words \\"partially hydrogenated\\"), plus just about all mayonnaise and margarine.  The body does not know what to do with these fats because they aren't natural, so it just uses them in its cells like all other fat, and this can cause many health problems.  The Eades suggest using only butter (also clarified butter), olive oil, and nut oils for cooking, sauces, etc., canola-oil mayonnaise, and avoiding foods that contain anything other than these oils, and especially anything with trans fats.<br />Basically, the book is not of much use without the underlying theories behind it, but as long as you understand these, it is of enormous help.  I would have preferred some sort of indication of trans-fats and perhaps a rating of how good a particular food was in terms of its anti-oxidant content, but I guess you can't have everything!  Adding these other readings might have added too much bulk to the book.  Right now it is slightly smaller than most small soft cover books, and is less than half an inch thick, yet covers all food groups in good detail.  It is organized well and it does not take you a couple of minutes to sort through all the myriad varieties of different foods, the way some of the more comprehensive food counters do.  I guess it depends on what you're looking for - portability or thoroughness, though even the most thorough of the other food counters do not break foods down into Omega-6 and Omega-3 fatty acids.	2000-12-10
US	52865843	R9XL64JINBVT3	0446525766	243454269	The Protein Power Lifeplan	Books	5	190	191	N	N	A well-grounded arguement for low-carb, plus much more.	Dr. Michael Eades and Mary Dan Eades, M.D.'s have written a follow-up to their popular \\"Protein Power\\" published in 1995.  The Eades are a husband-and-wife team that has a joint practice where they dish out the same advice as in their books - that of a restricted carbohydrate diet.  But unlike the much more popular Dr. Atkins Diet, the Eades concentrate much more on gaining the best nutritional bang for your buck.  Like their first book it is well organized with helpful summaries of each chapter, but it also delves into different subjects  like exercise, meditation and even sunbathing.<br />\\"Protein Power Lifeplan\\" is not simply a diet book, but more of a nutritional and health philosophy.  The Eades underline their main low-carbohydrate philosophy throughout the book, which, for the uneducated goes something like this:  it is not fat that makes us fat, gives us diseases like diabetes, heart disease, high blood pressure, etc.  Rather it is sugar.  Starches, since they are basically the same thing as sugar (just chained together and easily broken into their component sugars in the digestive process), are counted as well.  The Eades describe how the body produces the hormone insulin when carbs are ingested.  The more carbs we have in our diet, the more insulin is produced.  Insulin is used by the body to remove sugar from the bloodstream, where it can cause harm.  Unfortunately, the insulin that removes it can also cause harm in excessive amounts.  In addition, when exposed to these large amounts of insulin, the body slowly becomes more and more resistant to the hormone and the body has to produce more of it to have the same effect, so it is a vicious cycle.  The end of this cycle results when the body is so resistant that it simply can't produce enough and adult onset diabetes occurs.<br />The other main theme sounded throughout the book is the whole idea that humans are not made for consuming the amount of carbs that we do today.  The Eades make a good argument, which has been made by others, that agriculture is only a ten-thousand-year-old innovation, and that before this our ancestors were all hunter-gatherers, consuming primarily animals with perhaps a few wild vegetables nuts, seeds, and berries thrown in.  Due to the slow pace of evolution and natural selection, they argue, our bodies have not caught up to the last ten thousand years of vastly increased carbohydrates in our diets from the farming of grains.  They point out that anthropological finds bear out that those who lived before the advent of agriculture display strong bones, tall statures, perfect teeth and jaws, and no evidence of the diseases of modern man.  On the contrary, even the inhabitants of ancient Egypt five thousand or so years ago, who lived on a mainly vegetarian, grain-based diet, show (or their mummies do, I should say), evidence of diabetes, heart disease, gum disease, crumbling bones, and many other maladies.<br />As far as the diet itself, the Eades have honed it somewhat.  They now suggest three different approaches to the diet, so called \\"hedonist,\\" \\"dilettante,\\" and \\"purist.\\"  The main differences are in how strict the diets are to the Paleolithic Ideal, so to speak.  So purists would not eat any dairy products or grains, and only range-reared meat or wild game, since the alternatives would not have been available to their ancient ancestors.  The diet starts out at an \\"intervention stage\\" which allots seven to ten grams of carbs per meal.  Once the person is no longer experiencing health problems, or has gotten close to their goal weight/body fat percentage, they would go on the transition plan, which increases carbs by about 50%.  Finally, after you've gotten to exactly the place you want body-wise and health-wise and don't need added improvement, you go onto the \\"maintenance\\" level, which doubles, give or take, the transition level of carbs.<br />Despite certain vocal dissenters like Dr. Dean Ornish, the AMA, and ADA, there are an increasing number of medical doctors and nutritionists who are starting to appreciate the validitiy of the low-carb philosophy.  I was shocked to learn that the whole idea behind fat causing all these health problems in the first place is just that - an IDEA.  It is a hypothesis that the whole medical industry latched onto 25 or 30 years ago, because it made some logical sense at the time, and has only recently started to let go on the edges despite there being absolutely no proof that low fat diets are conducive to health, and many that indicate the exact opposite!  There are many clich&eacute; criticisms that get foisted on low-carb diets and the Eades tackle many of them, including the \\"vampire myths\\" ( myths that won't die) that these diets cause kidney problems in otherwise healthy individuals, or that the Chinese (who eat a primarily rice-based diet) do not suffer from much heart disease, etc.  Yet these myths are constantly invoked by those who have convinced themselves that their philosophy is right and this one is wrong.  Unfortunately, these individuals never research whether studies bear their claims out, nor are most even willing to read the full argument of the \\"other side\\".  I have an idea as to why this may be the case.  One of the first adherents of low-carb diets in recent times has been Dr. Robert Atkins, and his attitude is so combative (unlike the Eades who are so open-minded as to even admit to being wrong about some things they said in their previous book), that it encourages those who oppose him to be equally as combative and close-minded.  Do yourself a favor and read something with a refreshingly even-handed tone.  Whether you agree with their overall philosophies or not, there is a lot of helpful information on vitamins and minerals and other topics which do not require you to change your diet, despite my own opinion that it would be in your best interest to do so.ing number of medical doctors and nutritionists who are starting to appreciate the validitiy of the low-carb philosophy.  I was shocked to learn that the whole idea behind fat causing all these health problems in the first place is just that - an IDEA.  It is a hypothesis that the whole medical industry latched onto 25 or 30 years ago, because it made some logical sense at the time, and has only recently started to let go on the edges despite there being absolutely no proof that low fat diets are conducive to health, and many that indicate the exact opposite!  There are many cliché criticisms that get foisted on low-carb diets and the Eades tackle many of them, including the \\"vampire myths\\" ( myths that won't die) that these diets cause kidney problems in otherwise healthy individuals, or that the Chinese (who eat a primarily rice-based diet) do not suffer from much heart disease, etc.  Yet these myths are constantly invoked by those who have convinced themselves that their philosophy is right and this one is wrong.  Unfortunately, these individuals never research whether studies bear their claims out, nor are most even willing to read the full argument of the \\"other side\\".  I have an idea as to why this may be the case.  One of the first adherents of low-carb diets in recent times has been Dr. Robert Atkins, and his attitude is so combative (unlike the Eades who are so open-minded as to even admit to being wrong about some things they said in their previous book), that it encourages those who oppose him to be equally as combative and close-minded.  Do yourself a favor and read something with a refreshingly even-handed tone.  Whether you agree with their overall philosophies or not, there is a lot of helpful information on vitamins and minerals and other topics which do not require you to change your diet, despite my own opinion that it would be in your best interest to do so.	2000-12-09
US	52865843	R15FUVU2SM0BWG	067158037X	698161422	Angela's Ashes (AUDIO CASSETTE)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Fascinating, moving, and disturbing.	I listened to the unabridged version of this book during commuting, and longer trips home, etc.  I think the added value of hearing Frank McCourt in his own voice is tremendous!  You get a true flavor from his impersonations of all the characters, you hear him sing the songs is drunk father sung to him, hear him chirp out the obedient calls to stearn teachers, etc.  You can tell from the many reviews here and elsewhere in the press that the book is a great one.  It truely brings home the horrors of growing up in extreme poverty, and all it brings, including sickness, ignorance, etc.  But growing up in it you have little perspective to judge how horrible your situation is, so McCourt doesn't whine about it, rather accounts for it in almost a matter-of-fact way.  The horrors speak for themselves - louder than any editorializing could ever do.	2000-11-30
US	52865843	R148Y8K30XW7LB	0380803682	183030674	Dr. Atkins' New Diet Revolution	Books	2	66	80	N	N	Great diet, lousy book	This is my second review of this book.  I read it a couple of years ago when its popularity had skyrocketed.  At that point (really for the last 10 years up until a couple of months ago) I was an adherent of the low-fat diet.  I have lost but gained back weight several times on that and so recently decided to actually TRY the Atkins diet, not just read it.<br />I reread the book, and though the concepts were interesting, it was very frustrating!  The book is horribly organized and Atkins rambles and raves on about the evil AMA, and constantly talks about how his diet is so great because you can have as much steak, bacon and eggs as you want.  Guess what, not everyone wants all of that stuff!  I've heard Atkins speak on radio talk shows and he is so defensive and empassioned that you get the sense that he is completely close-minded.<br />As far as the diet itself, I have been following a low-carb diet which mirrors his for the past two months.  I have only lost 5 lbs on the scale, but I've also been lifting weights and so I'm sure that I have lost way more than 5 lbs in body fat.  More importantly, I feel more energetic and healthy than I have felt in my many years on low-fat diets!  I am never hungry, never craving foods in between meals, don't need as much sleep as I used to.  Generally I feel awesome!<br />What I would urge you to do whether you are open to low-carb diets or not is to check out OTHER books!  Unfortunately Atkins is the most well known adherent of this diet, and his hostile and commercialized persona does is cause a disservice.  But there are many other MUCH better books out there.  In particular I would highly recommend &quot;Protein Power&quot; or &quot;The Protein Power Lifeplan&quot; by Dr.'s Michael and Mary Eades.  These books are well organized even with summaries at the end of each chapter!  They are level-headed, detailed in terms of the science and physiology, and refreshingly admit to not knowing all the answers and even being wrong sometimes!  They also emphsize healthy choices for your carbs like veggies as opposed to cheese, something Atkins does not do at all.<br />I'm always dismayed reading reviews of people who vehemently put down these diets simply because they are not &quot;politically correct.&quot;  Unless you've been on such a diet yourself for at least a month or so, or know others who have been, don't spout the standard line about how these diets are dangerous fads or crazy theories.  The whole idea behind fat and cholesterol being factors in causing obesity, heart disease etc. (as opposed to insulin levels as suggested by low-carb diets) is simply a hypothesis itself, and one that has never been proven despite many studies.times!  They also emphsize healthy choices for your carbs like veggies as opposed to cheese, something Atkins does not do at all.<br />I'm always dismayed reading reviews of people who vehemently put down these diets simply because they are not &quot;politically correct.&quot;  Unless you've been on such a diet yourself for at least a month or so, or know others who have been, don't spout the standard line about how these diets are dangerous fads or crazy theories.  The whole idea behind fat and cholesterol being factors in causing obesity, heart disease etc. (as opposed to insulin levels as suggested by low-carb diets) is simply a hypothesis itself, and one that has never been proven despite many studies.	2000-11-29
US	52865843	R1Y23U76AEK37X	0553574752	243454269	Protein Power: The High-Protein/Low Carbohydrate Way to Lose Weight, Feel Fit, and Boost Your Health-in Just Weeks!	Books	5	81	86	N	N	Incredibly informative and detailed, well organized, etc.	Several weeks ago I decided to go on the Atkins diet, which I had previously looked down on as a gimmicky, though interesting philosophy. That opinion was based mainly on a combination of reading one of Atkins' books, Dr. Atkins' New Diet Revolution, but also hearing Atkins talk on at least one NPR talk show. In the process of looking on the web for forums about the diet, I came across recommendations for other low-carbohydrate diet books, including Protein Power. I decided to pick up Protein Power after only a week after being on the Atkins diet.<br />All I can say is that Protein Power is worlds better than Atkins' book! It is reasoned, detailed, very well organized, and extremely interesting. Compare this to Atkins' ranting tone, excessive repetition, hype and self-promotion. No wonder so many people have such a negative impression about low-carb diets - their most vocal spokesperson is a big cheese-ball!<br />Ok, enough trashing of Atkins, and onto Protein Power. As I mentioned, the book is very well organized. It goes into a vast array of areas, covering diet, exercise, supplements, anthropology, physiology, and more. Each chapter has a great synopsis at the end, in case you want to go back and get the general gist, or just don't have enough interest to read through 30 pages about a topic.<br />The main point of the book is to illustrate how a low-carbohydrate diet is much healthier for people than one that's high in carbohydrate and low in protein. The Eades list many studies and anthropological data that show how prehistoric man ate (mainly animal proteins and fat plus minimal amounts of berries, shoots, and seeds), is still what our modern bodies are designed for. Switching to a diet that is similar to this will, according to them, lower your cholesterol and triglicerides, aid in weight-loss, and generally alleviate many medical problems including diabetes, chronic fatigue, heart disease, hypertension, rashes, asthma, and a score of others.<br />How does it do this? To summarize the theory, carbohydrates are basically the same thing as sugar. They are simply sugars molecules that are chained together and your body breaks them into simple sugars with little effort or energy expended once they are consumed. This being the case, most people eat the equivelent of several cups of sugar per day! No one would agree that this is healthy, but yet the prevailing dogma from the authorities of the AMA, AHA, etc., is that the most healthy diet is extremely low fat and high-carb with little protein as well. In any case, the main health problems that the Eades suggest could be eliminated or greatly alleviated by changing to their diet involve how the body reacts to the intake of carbohydrates and sugars. The main hormones involved are insulin and glucagon. When lots of carbs and/or sugars are ingested, there's a big increase in insulin, a hormone whose job it is to decreases that excess sugar in the blood stream. The problem is that over many years of abuse, the insulin loses its effectiveness so your body has to produce more and more of it - a condition called hyperinsulinism. Unfortunately excess amounts of insulin in the blood and tissues causes all kinds of horrible things to go wrong in your body, including decreased immune system, hardening of the arteries, and so forth. Eventually, if taken to an extreme, the insulin becomes completely useless, leading to Adult Onset Diabetes (Diabetes Type II).<br />According to the Eades, decreasing your carb intake considerably reverses all of this damage. Your insulin becomes more effective and thus not needed as much, so you produce less of it and the ill effects begin to diminish. The other part of this is that by decreasing your carb/sugar intake, your body can no longer use these vast amounts in the diet for energy, so must use the fat on your body, thus making you leaner.<br />So what exactly do they recommend you eat? Well, first off, you can eat any kind of meat, poultry, or fish, eggs, cheese, nuts, and most vegetables (though you have to limit your intake of cheese, nuts and vegetables because they all contain some carbs). They emphasize the importance of eating your minimum protein requirements for the day, and give you worksheets on how to figure this out for yourself. They do note that smaller people who are trying to lose weight should limit their intake of fat, leaning towards leaner meats, less hard cheeses, fewer egg yolks, etc., since fat is high in calories and excessive amounts of calories without a means to burn them will just allow the body to use your dietary fat as energy instead of the fat stored on your body. They have an initial plan (called &quot;Phase I&quot;), for those who need to lose a lot of weight, which consists of only 20-30 grams of carbs per day. Once you've gotten fairly close to your weight goal (or if didn't have a lot to lose in the first place) you can be on &quot;Phase II&quot; which is 55 grams of carbs per day. When you finally do get to your goal weight, you go on maintenance, which is even more carbs per day. There's further detail of things to stay away from - trans fats (like margarine or anything that has &quot;partially hydrogenated&quot; on the label), certain types of oils that contain a lot of Omega 6 oils (as opposed to the healthier Omega 3 oils found primarily in fish), etc. But the main focus is on keeping carbs low and protein adequate (they repeat throughout the book that low-carb diets such as theirs are unfairly labeled &quot;high-protein&quot; when they are simply fulfilling the necessary requirement of protein for the body and not much more.ish, eggs, cheese, nuts, and most vegetables (though you have to limit your intake of cheese, nuts and vegetables because they all contain some carbs). They emphasize the importance of eating your minimum protein requirements for the day, and give you worksheets on how to figure this out for yourself. They do note that smaller people who are trying to lose weight should limit their intake of fat, leaning towards leaner meats, less hard cheeses, fewer egg yolks, etc., since fat is high in calories and excessive amounts of calories without a means to burn them will just allow the body to use your dietary fat as energy instead of the fat stored on your body. They have an initial plan (called &quot;Phase I&quot;), for those who need to lose a lot of weight, which consists of only 20-30 grams of carbs per day. Once you've gotten fairly close to your weight goal (or if didn't have a lot to lose in the first place) you can be on &quot;Phase II&quot; which is 55 grams of carbs per day. When you finally do get to your goal weight, you go on maintenance, which is even more carbs per day. There's further detail of things to stay away from - trans fats (like margarine or anything that has &quot;partially hydrogenated&quot; on the label), certain types of oils that contain a lot of Omega 6 oils (as opposed to the healthier Omega 3 oils found primarily in fish), etc. But the main focus is on keeping carbs low and protein adequate (they repeat throughout the book that low-carb diets such as theirs are unfairly labeled &quot;high-protein&quot; when they are simply fulfilling the necessary requirement of protein for the body and not much more.	2000-10-28
US	52865843	R1B7YMHPH46TUS	186100270X	80671039	Professional JavaScript with DHTML, ASP, CGI, FESI, Netscape Enterprise Server, Windows Script Host, LiveConnect and Java	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Decent programmers reference, but not for beginners	Professional JavaScript is great as a reference and one can find some good nuggets in some of the non-reference chapters. However, if you do not already have formal programming training, and possibly some good familiarity with JavaScript itself, the book may do you better just as a reference tool. Also, because it was written by so many people (each one responsible for a different chapter) the text reads more like a disjointed collection of essays.<br />The first 750 pages or so of the book comprises the main content of the book. It is divided into 20 chapters, covering just about every aspect of the language. Some of the more advanced chapters, which I did not get a chance to read, are integrating JavaScript with Java, Server-side JavaScript, and stand-alone JavaScript via Windows Script Host. There are also chapters on integrating JavaScript with ASP, and detailed looks at a couple of fairly complex JavaScript systems including a family tree and an ecommerce tool. The problem is that there's little ramp-up. There are lots of code examples throughout the text, but they are primarily small snippets. So it's like shock therapy when you are presented with such major applications of coding without anything in between! But this has to do more with the aforementioned nature of the book in that so many different authors with different styles and topics wrote it. Some of the chapters are great; they have some really good information that any level of programmer can use. The chapters on Forms and Data, Multimedia Plugins, Debugging and Disappearing Data, and Windows and Frames were all extremely helpful. Other chapters for me were completely useless to me - they droned on and on about theoretical issues without getting into practically any coding. I had great hopes for the chapter on Privacy, Security and Cookies, as well as the one on Rapid Application Development, but neither was helpful at all.<br />The last 300 pages or so comprises the reference section. The reference section is great, it goes into every aspect of the language, including the core language attributes, objects and methods, and there are a ton of JavaScript/browser comparison charts that give you a great idea of what functions and features will be available to you in Netscape and IE from the earliest version to the latest.<br />Ultimately what you get out Professional JavaScript really depends on your level of expertise when it comes to programming. I do not personally have any formal training - it's all been self-taught, so some of the more advanced stuff, though I'm sure I could learn it given the need, was not presented in a way that instructs people who do not have a familiarity with advanced programming techniques. There seems to be a lingo that some programmers use when talking about programming and for people who don't have formal programming training (or haven't been programming since they were nine) is just completely baffling. Most O'Reilly books seem to be full of this, but then they are written for the professional programmer. Professional JavaScript, as the name implies, probably is as well, however, there is enough great information here for any kind of programmer, and you just have to be selective as to which chapters you try to tackle.e section is great, it goes into every aspect of the language, including the core language attributes, objects and methods, and there are a ton of JavaScript/browser comparison charts that give you a great idea of what functions and features will be available to you in Netscape and IE from the earliest version to the latest. <br />Ultimately what you get out Professional JavaScript really depends on your level of expertise when it comes to programming. I do not personally have any formal training - it's all been self-taught, so some of the more advanced stuff, though I'm sure I could learn it given the need, was not presented in a way that instructs people who do not have a familiarity with advanced programming techniques. There seems to be a lingo that some programmers use when talking about programming and for people who don't have formal programming training (or haven't been programming since they were nine) is just completely baffling. Most O'Reilly books seem to be full of this, but then they are written for the professional programmer. Professional JavaScript, as the name implies, probably is as well, however, there is enough great information here for any kind of programmer, and you just have to be selective as to which chapters you try to tackle.	2000-10-11
US	52865843	RHT485FJ837IP	067976349X	488427547	The Tetherballs of Bougainville: A Novel	Books	4	10	11	N	Y	Wackyness	The Tetherballs of Bogainville is an odd book. To say the least! It is a so-called \\"genre-buster\\" in that it is one of a new class of novels that strive to be completely unclassifiable. Tetherballs does this fairly successfully.<br />The protagonist of the novel is Mark, a thirteen-year-old highly precocious boy who strides around in leather pants and no shirt. The entire novel is told from his perspective and it seems to be one bizarre tangent after another! I can't even remember a fraction of them. The humor is sophisticated, but so absurdist that I have found myself breaking out into guffaws at many points!<br />But because of it's ridiculous nature, tangents, etc., it is sometimes a bit hard to read - you start getting numb to the roller coaster ride that Leyner puts you on. So I have had to limit my exposure and put the book aside for a few days after reading each chapter or two.<br />This book is not for the weak of stomach or the uptight. However, if you have a good sense of humor and like your humor dry yet absurd, with a ton of references thrown in from the historical to the scientific, and you don't mind mixing your reality with a good deal of fantasy, you will find Tetherballs a fascinating read!	2000-10-11
US	52865843	R195K6S6N0XPEG	0385484518	725864791	Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, A Young Man and Life's Greatest Lesson	Books	5	25	29	N	N	A book that will make you think about your life.	I read this book after hearing so many good things about it and the TV movie based on it. It's a very quick read - I finished it in two days, which is unheard of for me! The book is basically about Morrie Schwartz, a history professor at Brandeis University, who has been diagnosed with ALS (Lou Gehrig's Disease) and is dying. A former student, Mitch Albom, who had become a fairly well known sports writer, heard about his teacher from an interview with Ted Koppel on Nightline and decided to pay a visit. This visit soon turned into regular meetings - on Tuesdays - since at the time there was a strike at Albom's newspaper. Albom plots Morrie's declining health, which is quite depressing, but at the same time imparts Morrie's wisdom. One definitely can get a sense of what the important things in life are from someone who has little left, but Morrie is particularly eloquent and seems to carry an upbeat dignity to the end. Sometimes it takes the wisdom of a dying man to jog us enough to realize that human relationships and health are more important than all the gadgets, modern conveniences, pressures to get ahead professionally and monetarily combined. This is just the main point that Morrie starts &quot;teaching&quot; Albom and getting through to someone who, like many of us from time to time, have gotten obsessed with the real trivialities of life. The only complaint I have about this book is that it wasn't longer. I wanted to take more time and savor the wisdom and sweetness of this old man, but, like his illness's swiftness, reading the book seemed to go by all too quickly.	2000-10-11
US	52865843	R2MA7BLCVYJHF1	0345404475	978657248	Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?: The inspiration for the films Blade Runner and Blade Runner 2049	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great Book	I read Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep quite a few years ago, and many years after seeing the movie that was based on this book, &quot;Blade Runner.&quot; It was an extremely engrossing read.<br />If you've seen the movie, don't worry about the book being old hat. The two are actually quite different. The whole premise is kind inverted. Instead of the replicants being hunted down because they had developed emotion, they are being hunted down because they HAVE no emotion, so have no qualms about killing others. It's definitely a twist, but a very interesting one.<br />The preciousness of life, particularly animal life, however, is probably even more emphasized in the book than the movie. In addition, the book adds another dimension called Murcererism, which is this odd hi-tech form of religion. Kind of a machine that produces spiritual experiences and thus makes life more livable in a post-apocalyptic world where all animals (aside from humans) have been made extinct by the radiation from the bombs.	2000-10-11
US	52865843	R3G1CYDX2Z8G0C	0671315633	93362654	Italian	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Excellent intro to the language.	I actually bought ... version of these tapes.  I found them easy to follow, and generally enjoyable.  I was a Russian major in college and never tried to learn a language in this fashion, but found this audio program to be very well done.  Unfortunately, you can't get a huge breadth  of knowledge from four hours of instruction, but it does give you some  foundation to go out and learn more if you are interested.  The lessons  themselves add onto the previous one, but usually only with the  introduction of about 10-20% new material, the rest is old material so you  are constantly reviewing.  This is good because it really reinforces the  lessons' content, but it also makes for a somewhat slow pace and of course  four hours is only enough at this base to get a fairly basic understanding  of the language.  Although a few grammatical concepts are explained, I  would have wished they had given full verb conjugations instead of just the  first person and second person singular.  Likewise neither plural nouns nor  verb tenses were explained or given as examples.  Despite this, it was  definitely enjoyable and really gives you practice in saying a lot of  Italian words and phrases.  It repeats a lot, yes, and some people might  get tired of this, but this is a big reason for it being so effective in  teaching pronunciation.  As far as teaching by syllable, this is generally  only done when introducing new words.  They do sometimes step through a  sentence if it is fairly long first doing one word, then a couple, then a  couple more, then the whole thing.  But this especially important when  dealing with a long sentence in a language you are not familiar with and  which you don't have anything in writing to follow along with.	2000-07-27
US	52865843	R1RAPZ36IJWZY3	0385484518	725864791	Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, A Young Man and Life's Greatest Lesson	Books	4	391	422	N	N	Great book to remind you of what really matters in life	I read this book after hearing so many good things about it and the TV movie based on it. It's a very quick read - I finished it in two days, which is unheard of for me! The book is basically about Morrie Schwartz, a  history professor at Brandeis University, who has been diagnosed with ALS  (Lou Gehrig's Disease) and is dying. A former student, Mitch Albom, who had  become a fairly well known sports writer, heard about his teacher from an  interview with Ted Koppel on Nightline and decided to pay a visit. This  visit soon turned into regular meetings - on Tuesdays - since at the time  there was a strike at Albom's newspaper. Albom plots Morrie's declining  health, which is quite depressing, but at the same time imparts Morrie's  wisdom. One definitely can get a sense of what the important things in life  are from someone who has little left, but Morrie is particularly eloquent  and seems to carry an upbeat dignity to the end. Sometimes it takes the  wisdom of a dying man to jog us enough to realize that human relationships  and health are more important than all the gadgets, modern conveniences,  pressures to get ahead professionally and monetarily combined. This is just  the main point that Morrie starts &quot;teaching&quot; Albom and getting  through to someone who, like many of us from time to time, have gotten  obsessed with the real trivialities of life. The only complaint I have  about this book is that it wasn't longer. I wanted to take more time and  savor the wisdom and sweetness of this old man, but, like his illness's  swiftness, reading the book seemed to go by all too quickly.	2000-02-08
US	52865843	R3W4KXP0RT5FKO	0684869020	250808166	The Wall Street Journal Guide to Understanding Money and Investing	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Good reference but a bit dry	A great book for beginners. This teaches you most of the basics like how our money system works, the federal reserve, how bills are printed, destroyed, what all the markings and numbers mean on bills and checks, how  stocks and the stock market work, etc. It gets a bit dry at points but this  was written as more of a reference manual than a how-to, so you can't  expect it to be entertaining on every page, especially when dealing with  some fairly dry topics!	2000-02-08
US	52865843	RZFDMUAQDFW46	0380726823	623351210	How To Want What You Have	Books	4	33	33	N	Y	Some great ideals and a well-referenced thesis.	Another title for this book could be &quot;How to be inhumanly good.&quot;  Miller's main thesis is that it is human instinct to want more, no matter how much you have, how good your life is, etc. Because of this, he argues,  it is impossible for us to get what we want, because we will always invent  something that we don't have.  So we should come to terms with this urge  and get on with our lives.  In addition to this, he proposes three major  areas to concentrate whenever we get too bogged down in wanting more. These  three areas are Compassion, Attention, and Gratitude. So, according to  Miller, if we continually strive to be more compassionate, pay more  attention to what is going on around us and to what others are saying, and  be more thankful for what we have, the yearnings for more should eventually  fade, though of course never disappear completely.  It was certainly an  interesting read, but I think it would be almost impossible to follow  exactly Miller's suggestions, though of course helpful to strive towards  his ideals. It would take extraordinary dedication to the ideas and  practices layed out in this book.  Miller introduces many interesting  sociological, historical, and religious documents to support his thesis.  And it is a thesis to some extent, being extremely well-referenced. Miller  approaches his readers as rational, intelligent individuals, rather that  the desperate masses seeking THE answer. He even lists his email address  and a mailing list dedicated to discussing the theories in the book.  I  subscribed to the mailing list for a couple of weeks, but found it a bit  too heavy in long depressing narratives or short messages from obviously  depressed individuals.	2000-02-08
US	52865843	R9U9JPHU9FUA7	0062702327	233157183	20/30 Fat & Fiber Diet Plan	Books	5	27	32	N	Y	Great all-purpose book about dieting, health, &amp; nutrition.	I read Dr. Merkin's last book, Fat Free Flavor Full, and this one seems to be more or less the same book, just reworked with a little more emphasis on dieting and less about health in general. The 20/30 Plan is shorter than  Fat Free Flavor Full, having only about 100 pages of information on the  program (as opposed to 150 or more in the previous book), about 50 pages of  recipes (as opposed to 150+ in the last one), and almost 150 on the  &quot;food list&quot; (not included at all in the last book) which is  basically a nutritional guide to a vast variety of different foods.<br />  Because I had read most of this before, for me the book wasn't all that  interesting. It reminded me of Merkin's basic diet plan - that you should  have 20 grams or less of fat per day, that you should limit low-fiber  carbohydrates and sugars drastically, and have lots of high-fiber foods.  Actually in this book for the first time Mirkin quantifies that by saying  you should have at least 30 grams of fiber per day. Other than this, the  plan suggests you have seafood 2-3 times per week, but no meat or poultry,  and all the vegetables, fruits, whole grains, and beans that you want  (except for some high-fat fruits like avocados and olives). Whole grains  are listed very specifically and there's good information on exactly what  is considered in the diet by &quot;whole grain&quot; - for example whole  wheat bread is not. If you follow this plan for every meal, you are allowed  2 meals per week where you can eat whatever you want within reason. Mirkin  also emphasizes an exercise plan, going into different types of exercise  and how they can help your diet.<br /> I would recommend Fat Free and Flavor  Full, if you want a lot more recipies, and perhaps a little more in-debth  info about diet and health, but the 20/30 plan if you want more of an  all-purpose book with recipies, a good diet strategy with some info on diet  and health and fitness, as well as a nutritional guide for foods.<br /> I  have a lot of reviews of books in general, but some diet/health books on my  website; check it out if you're  interested!<br /> I  have a lot of reviews of books in general, but some diet/health books on my  website; check it out if you're  interested!	1999-01-22
US	52865843	R1G7RMSKRPOAP7	0893570974	761174798	Fundamentals of Russian: First Russian Course	Books	2	1	2	N	N	An outdated text	I had this book for First Year Russian back about 10 years ago. It's probably not the best book for beginning Russian. It's somewhat old with no pictures, games, cultural information, or the other types of things you  might find in a modern textbook. However, it did the trick and helped to  propel me into what would eventually become my major in college.	1998-12-30
US	52865843	R26EQH0BSBLORB	0061053147	5793806	Future Noir: The Making of Blade Runner	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A fascinating look into the making of a scifi classic	For those interested in science fiction, movie making, special effects, and even hollywood gossip, this book contains pleanty to satisfy. If you are a big fan of Philip K. Dick and his works, especially Do Androids Dream  of Electric Sheep and the movie version Blade Runner, it is of particular  interest. This book gets into the minute details of how Blade Runner was  conceptualized as a movie, how it was developed, and how eventually it was  filmed. Some of the details get a bit overwhelming at some points, like  when Sammon talks about the special effects for almost every scene in the  movie, but he appropriately forwarns the reader that there will be fairly  technical material and to skip it if this is not up your alley. There are  lots of interesting accounts from the actors themselves. Sammon did a lot  of reporting during the actual filming, but this book over 10 years  afterwards, so there are many interviews with the actors with the hindsight  and perspective that comes from this amount of time. All in all, an  extremely interesting read!	1998-12-29
US	52865843	R108RZDL7S8A0J	0764550365	620183464	Weight Training For Dummies	Books	5	15	17	N	Y	A great primer to weight-training for the beginner	This book is exactly what it claims to be - a good introduction to basic weight-training technique. It gives solid info about a whole variety of weight machine exercises and free-weight exercises. It talks about a  variety of supplements, exercise videos, how to choose a health club, how  to buy your own equipment and a lot more. Really a good book to get a good  handle on the whole area. I'm sure those experienced with weight-lifting  might scoff at it for being too basic, or too conservative, but that's not  whom this book is for anyway...	1998-12-29
US	52865843	R2PNV946YI1SFU	0060925450	24780754	Eat More Weigh Less: Dr. Dean Ornish's Life Choice Program for Losing Weight Safely While Eating Abundantly	Books	4	124	133	N	N	A fascinating book about diet and health.	A cool book about nutrition, health, and losing weight. This book is what actually motivated me to become a vegetarian four years ago and so far I've not had an ounce of meat since. Though I do eat fish, so some may not  consider me a true vegetarian. I have recently picked this book up to  review it and am finding it just as interesting as I remember. Ornish  quotes scores of studies including his own which back up his philosophy  about eating and health. In a nutshell, if you don't eat meat, and limit  yourself to 10% of your calories as fat, exercise moderately, and &quot;pay  attention&quot; you will avoid heart disease and other ailments, lose  weight, and generally feel great. To be more specific, he concurs with  Merkin in that you can eat as much grains, beans, fruits, and vegetables as  you wants, but aslo warns that you should never stuff yourself. In fact, he  concentrates somewhat on &quot;paying attention&quot; in the sense that if  you concentrate more on what you eat as you eat it and not simply gulp a  meal down while you watch TV, you are much more likely to hear the natural  cue's your body puts out that tell you when you should stop eating. He also  recommends getting rid of salt from your diet as this hides the flavor of  food, and claims that after about two weeks your tastebuds will readjust to  the lack of salt, sugar, and fat that is in the normal American diet, and  which he claims hides the real flavor of foods, and after your tastebuds  readjust, everything will taste much better then they ever did. Finally,  when it comes to exercise, he has a very interesting viewpoint that  moderate exercise such as walking is the best kind. The benefits he lists  are that it is less stressful to your body, so you are less prone to  injury, walking is a lot easier to do than other more vigorous exercises  which may require special equipment, and finally, it aids much more in  losing weight. This is because, according to Ornish, when the body detects  that it is exerting a lot of energy in strenuous exercise, it slows the  metabolism down in order to counteract this - it's trying to maintain the  store of energy so that you don't starve. When you walk, your body does not  get the same message, and so your metabolism stays the same and you burn  calories without having to work as hard.  Ornish does seem to get a little  flakey towards the end of the first part of the book, where he talks about  stress.  If you are more scientifically minded, you can get beyond the  psychobable/new-agey stuff and just retreave the main point that stress is  bad.  The second half of the book is a bunch of recipes by Ornish, but as  stated by other reviewers here, these are somewhat ridiculous.  Sure  perhaps a wealthy diet-doctor or someone else with either a lot of money or  time on their hands or both can make these recipes, but for the majority of  us working stiffs, forget it!  So I just ignored this part of the book.   Don't even attempt it unless you have the qualities described above, and/or  have a real love for cooking.	1998-12-29
US	52865843	RNR9W8U4LXUGZ	0380727293	183030674	Dr. Atkins' New Diet Revolution	Books	2	2	5	N	N	An exciting book based on incomplete science.	A few people from my went on this diet several months ago so I borrowed the book and read a few chapters. It is very engrossing because its claims seem to go against logic and the common wisdom, and also because it suggest  you can lose a massive amount of weight quickly from simply not eating  carbohydrates (or a very minimal amount) and instead eating mainly protein  and fat, with perhaps a bit of leafy greens mixed in. I think Atkins has  something valid to say about carbohydrates - at least simple, unrefined  ones like sugar, white bread, pretzels, bagels, etc. I have heard this  before from diet book authors that I respect like Merkin and Ornish.  However, their position is that in order to lose weight healthfully, you  don't just stop eating carbohydrates period (or eat trace amounts), but eat  ones that are high in fiber, such as beans, whole grains, and vegetables.  There are a bizillion studies out there which show that this kind of diet  is incredibly healthy for you, reduces all kinds of risk factors, and helps  you lose and keep off weight. In effect, if you eat a carbohydrate that is  50% fiber, you can subtract that entire 50% when counting your carb intake  for the day.  This is because fiber either passes right through you without  being digested, or it is absorbed into the blood but is entirely  beneficial.  Unfortunately Atkins never mentions fiber and despite  mentioning a few studies from the 50's and 60's, does not back up his data  with anything recent. Diets that are high in protein have the added risk of  causing calcium depletion and kidney problems because they are high in  nitrogenous compounds which cause your kidneys to work extra hard to get  rid of them. These types of diets are also diuretic, which indicates that  the vast amount of weight-loss that Atkins claims is due primarily to water  loss, even though he denies it. Atkins gets you psyched up about the evil  AMA which is out to promote its low-fat, high-carb agenda and refuses tolisten to anything which contradicts this, and even goes as far as to  support studies which are obviously flawed. Yet Atkins never discusses why  there is such an agenda. Could there be a conspiracy between the AMA and  the food companies which make low-fat/no-fat foods? Many people have  success with this diet, so to each his own, but if you don't like having  meat as your main course or only course every meal of the week, and you  aren't significantly overweight, I would skip this thing and go with a diet  that's more balanced. The fact that you can supposedly lose 10 lbs a week  on the Atkins diet for several weeks in a row may seem enticing if you are  that overweight, but it also sounds like an unhealthfully rapid pace.	1998-12-29
US	52865843	R1SUGR364VQKFS	1576101584	873940273	How to Build a Successful International Web Site: Designing Web Pages for Multilingual Markets at the National and International Level	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A great resource for creating a multi-lingual website	I bought this book for a recent project for creating a multilingual website. This book really has a wealth of information about creating a multilingual/international website. A lot of the initial information  concerned WHY you should have an international website, which I could have  done without, but perhaps this would be helpful to some. Bishop gets into  lots of areas of creating the site, including character encoding, priming  your site for international search engines, using PDF, Real Audio,  translation services, etc. There's almost too much to digest at one time. A  whole chapter is devoted to resources on the internet, but Bishop provides  links to appropriates sites throughout the book. My only complaint is that  he didn't discuss how much Unicode has superceded some of the other  character encoding schemes. By including so much information on other  schemes, he seems to be indicating that Unicode is still not used by many,  but it's a little unclear. However, this may not be a top issue for most,  it just happened to be a question I'm coming up against in my project.	1998-12-29
US	52865843	RK78QS5MU1MBQ	0316574732	967175310	Fat Free, Flavor Full: Dr. Gabe Mirkin's Guide to Losing Weight & Living Longer	Books	5	27	27	N	N	A sensible look at food, dieting, and exercise.	Dr. Gabe Mirkin and Diana Rich (his wife) have a talk show in the DC area where they discuss nutrition, diet, medicine, disease, etc. This book covers mainly his philosophy on eating. However, half of the book is a  compendium of his low-fat, high fiber recipes, most of which are  vegetarian, but some of which involve fish and shelfish. Basically Mirkin's  philosophy involves eating low-fat, high-fiber foods. You are supposed to  eat no more than 20 grams of fat per day. And you are allowed only 2 or 3  serving per day of low-fiber foods (like milk, jam, bread, pretzels, etc.).  This may seem a harsh regimen, but Mirkin includes some leeway as well: for  one or two meals a week you can have whatever you want, which makes eating  out much easier; and you can have as many whole grains (whole wheat,  barley, oats, etc.), beans, fruits, and vegetables as you want. The idea is  that you will never feel deprived because you can always go to the cupboard  and eat two cans of beans, a pineapple and a pound of broccoli. Mirkin  emphasizes that his eating plan won't take pounds off unless you exercise,  so this is no magic formula. What I liked so much about this book was how  Mirkin describes the science of how fats break down and are absorbed into  the body and used, the chemical differences between saturated,  mono-saturated and poly-unsaturated fat, and how curbing fat and calorie  intake can not only elleviate many of the health problems that we already  associate with obesity (such as heart disease), but can actually cure other  problems such as adult-onset diabedes. If you're not into dieting or  healthy eating, it's at least interesting as a scientific look (albeit at a  layman's level) at food and how the body is affected by it.	1998-12-29
US	52865843	R3K8BXH4I6VXNH	0812550706	401439625	Ender's Game (The Ender Quintet)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An engrossing story of child hero in a terrible future	A very entertaining read. This book got the author both the Hugo and Nebula awards. The story is about a very young boy, a genius, who, at the age of 6, is drafted into a world government/military training school in  order to defeat the &quot;buggers.&quot; Humanity had previously defeated  an unprovoked invasion by these aliens seemingly by sheer luck.  We go  through both strategic military training, and emotional, psychological and  sociological training, conditioning and development of Ender, the main  character, and suffer with him as he is pushed to his limits - which are  far greater than any other young child, teen, or adult that I know.  Ender  is always seeing the wheels within wheels of thinking of his nemesis, be it  school bullies, his sadistic brother, his teachers, or even his friends, or  his super-compassionate sister. I did find that I was getting too wrapped  up in this book, but perhaps this is the sign of a very involving  storyteller.  As Ender is pushed harder and harder, I found myself getting  more and more sick of this, angry almost.  I was quite releaved when it was  finally over and don't have plans to read the sequals for a while!	1998-12-29
US	52865843	R1TOUXYA6KL098	0380727293	183030674	Dr. Atkins' New Diet Revolution	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Exciting but questionable.	A few people from my office are on this diet so I borrowed the book and read a few chapters.  It is very engrossing because its claims seem to go against logic and the common wisdom, and also because it suggests you can lose a massive amount of weight quickly from simply not eating carbohydrates (or a very minimal amount) and instead eating mainly protein and fat, with perhaps a bit of leafy greens mixed in.  I think Atkins has something to say about carbohydrates - at least simple, unrefined ones like sugar, white bread, pretzels, bagels, etc.  I have heard this before from diet book authors like Merkin and Ornish.  However, their position is that in order to lose weight healthfully, you don't just stop eating carbohydrates period, but eat ones that are high in fiber, such as beans, whole grains, and vegetables.  There are a bizillion studies out there which show that this kind of diet is incredibly healthy for you, reduces all kinds of risk factors, and helps you lose and keep off weight.  Unfortunately Atkins never mentions fiber and despite mentioning a few studies from the 50's and 60's, does not back up his data with anything recent.  Diets that are high in protein have the added risk of causing calcium depletion and kidney problems because they are high in nitrogenous compounds which cause your kidneys to work extra hard to get rid of them.  These types of diets  are also diuretic, which indicates that the vast amount of weight-loss that Atkins claims is due primarily to water loss, even though he denies it.  Atkins gets you psyched up about the evil AMA which is out to promote its low-fat, high-carb agenda and refuses to listen to anything which contradicts this, and even goes as far as to support studies which are obviously flawed.  Yet Atkins never discusses why there is such an agenda.  Could there be a conspiracy between the AMA and the food companies which make low-fat/no-fat foods?  Many people have success with this diet, so to each his own, but if you don't like having meat as your m! ain course or only course every meal of the week, and you aren't significantly overweight, I would skip this thing and go with a diet that's more balanced.  The fact that you can supposedly lose 10 lbs a week on the Atkins diet for several weeks in a row may seem enticing if you are that overweight, but it also sounds like an unhealthfully rapid pace...u don't like having meat as your m! ain course or only course every meal of the week, and you aren't significantly overweight, I would skip this thing and go with a diet that's more balanced.  The fact that you can supposedly lose 10 lbs a week on the Atkins diet for several weeks in a row may seem enticing if you are that overweight, but it also sounds like an unhealthfully rapid pace...	1998-05-19
US	52865843	R1QJ36PGN9DKMT	1562056212	997829098	Intranet Working	Books	4	1	1	N	N	For nonbeginners who want the intracate details of networkng	I read this book when it first came out in the beginning of '96. It goes into great detail about network theory, tcpip, and unix and NT networking, then goes into hands on explanations of setting up a web server, ftp server, and more, though most of it is catered towards unix. This is not a book for beginners, or for the faint at heart. It goes to the heart of the subject and gets technical very quickly, but the author does an excellent job of explaining things clearly and concisely. It's not the right book for someone who just wants to set up some servers on a corporate lan, especially if it's NT, but for those looking for the theory and inner workings of different protocols, and how these work with various internet services primarily on unix boxes, this could be an excellent reference!	1998-02-10
US	52865843	R3BLUL05X67ZX5	0471140546	541380018	Connect Your LAN to the Internet: Cost-Effective Access for Small Businesses and Other Organizations	Books	4	1	1	N	N	By now outdated, but still has some usefull information	I read this book when it first came out in the beginning of '96 and I think it's still pretty informative today. It's a bit outdated now, but there's good practical information for people who aren't network professionals, but are computer-literate and are interested about learning more about networking, the internet, etc.	1998-02-10
US	52865843	R357TBO316I7JT	1565920635	817305195	The Whole Internet User's Guide & Catalog (Whole Internet User's Guide and Catalog)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A great book for net-novices who aren't computer-illiterates	The first book I ever read about the internet. I got this book way back in '92 (or perhaps the spring of '93). It was one of only two books that were out (at least that people knew about on the net), the other one being The Hitchikers Guide to the Internet, or something like that. I still have the old copy, so I can't vouch for the newest releases, but since the author is the same, I trust his text has only improved. It was a great book to start out learning about the net because it didn't just skim the surface, but got into the nitty gritty of many different aspects, including email, ftp, the web (then in its infancy), usenet news, telnet, WAIS, GOPHER, and even connecting your computer to the net (not an easy task in 1992!), and more, all in just 350 or so pages! It was enough to get me hooked and to make all the cryptic unix commands that you had to deal with if you were connecting via a university (not many other choices back then) seem a little less cryptic. If you are a relative newcomer to the net, this book is a great place to start, unless you are very computer-illiterate, in which case you'll probably have an easier time with a Dummies book which doesn't go into as much detail. Even for those who are not so new to the net, Kroll has a good deal of historical information about the net and some stuff on the actual network systems that connect everything - the mbones and all that - so you will gain a lot from this as well. All in all, a very useful book!	1998-02-10
US	52865843	R2FSUJ2RC5D5KI	0684827034	433899403	The Motley Fool Investment Guide: How the Fools Beat Wall Street's Wise Men and How You Can Too	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	An interesting but somewhat &quot;fluffy&quot; book about investing	I picked this up because I'd heard that these brothers had written a very interesting and irreverent book and website about investing and money. Basically the book is devided into three parts. The first talks about their &quot;Dow Divident&quot; strategy. Actually, they do give credit to others for coming up with the idea, but add some new tweaks to make it supposedly more profitable. They claim this is a very easy and safe way to invest because you are dealing with only 4 stocks which you will have to change at most once a year and which are all Dow stocks, so they are all large well-established companies that won't go broke any time soon. They claim that this technique would have netted the invester an average of 25% annual growth of the last 25 years, and 19% over the last 38 years, both well above the 10.5% that the market (S&amp;P Index) would have given. They then go on to talk about a way to outdo even this growth by investing in small caps and in shorting stocks. So the 2nd third is about small caps and how to research them, how to read financial statements, how to understand trends, etc. The third section is on shorting stocks. Apparently if you put your money into each of these three philosophies in a certain ratio, you maximize your profits and minimize risk. However, they want you that if you don't have a lot of free time, you should just do the Dow Dividend approach as the other two can eat away a good deal of time and energy. I thought the first section of the book could have been written in about 10 pages, instead of the 100 or so that it took the Gardner brothers. Not only do they go on and on about hypothetical examples, but they also write about what they're about to write about. It's just very repetitive. Perhaps they were trying to be entertaining and trying to ease the complete novice into things, but unless you don't even know the very basics of what stocks are, you will probably get as annoyed with this part of the book as I was. The second part picks up the pace and gets into the nitty-gritty much more so in this sense it's actually useful if you want to make investing a hobby.rt picks up the pace and gets into the nitty-gritty much more so in this sense it's actually useful if you want to make investing a hobby.	1998-02-02
US	52865843	R3CR32FVZWMPUX	0893570974	761174798	Fundamentals of Russian: First Russian Course	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A text that's streighforward but dated and unexciting	I had this book for First Year Russian. It's probably not the best book for beginning Russian. It's somewhat old with no pictures, games, cultural information, or the other types of things you might find in a modern textbook. However, it did the trick and helped to propel me into what would eventually become my major in college.	1998-01-23
US	52865843	RD5DXOXFB2KTB	0060925450	24780754	Eat More Weigh Less: Dr. Dean Ornish's Life Choice Program for Losing Weight Safely While Eating Abundantly	Books	4	24	25	N	N	An interesting look at health &amp; nutrition.	This book is what actually motivated me to become a vegetarian over three years ago. I have recently picked this book up to review it and am finding it just as interesting as I remember. Ornish quotes scores of studies including his own which back up his philosophy about eating and health. In a nutshell, if you don't eat meat, and limit yourself to 10% of your calories as fat, exercise moderately, and &quot;pay attention&quot; you will avoid heart disease and other ailments, lose weight, and generally feel great. To be more specific, you can eat as much grains, beans, fruits, and vegetables as you wants, but aslo warns that you should never stuff yourself. In fact, he concentrates somewhat on &quot;paying attention&quot; in the sense that if you concentrate more on what you eat as you eat it and not simply gulp a meal down while you watch TV, you are much more likely to hear the natural cue's your body puts out that tell you when you should stop eating. He also recommends getting rid of salt from your diet as this hides the flavor of food, and claims that after about two weeks your tastebuds will readjust to the lack of salt, sugar, and fat that is in the normal American diet, and everything will taste much better than before you removed these from your diet.<br /> When it comes to exercise, Ornish has an interesting viewpoint that seems to contradict the common wisdom -  that moderate exercise such as walking is the best kind. The benefits he lists are that it is less stressful to your body, so you are less prone to injury, walking is a lot easier to do than other more vigorous exercises which may require special equipment, and finally, it aids much more in losing weight. This is because, according to Ornish, when the body detects that it is exerting a lot of energy in strenuous exercise, it slows the metabolism down in order to counteract this - it's trying to maintain the store of energy so that you don't starve. When you walk, your body does not get the same message, and so your metabolism stays the same and you burn calories without having to work as hard.  I suspect this may be true for those who haven't exercised in a long time or are very obese, but for most, though walking may be healthy, it is not a very efficient exercise for those trying to lose weight, and so those who are impatient may give up altogether because they are only a hundred calories or so an hour.<br /> Half of the book is taken up by low-fat recipies of Ornish which I've never tried as I'm not a cook, but a friend who has this book and who has a bit more culinary skill told me they are way to complicated (to many ingrediants and take too long to prepare).  Also, towards the end of the first half, Ornish gets a bit too touchy-feely for me, getting into the psychology of why we eat, and includes meditation exercises and so on.  But I'm sure there are many for whom this approach would be attractive...sage, and so your metabolism stays the same and you burn calories without having to work as hard.  I suspect this may be true for those who haven't exercised in a long time or are very obese, but for most, though walking may be healthy, it is not a very efficient exercise for those trying to lose weight, and so those who are impatient may give up altogether because they are only a hundred calories or so an hour.<br /> Half of the book is taken up by low-fat recipies of Ornish which I've never tried as I'm not a cook, but a friend who has this book and who has a bit more culinary skill told me they are way to complicated (to many ingrediants and take too long to prepare).  Also, towards the end of the first half, Ornish gets a bit too touchy-feely for me, getting into the psychology of why we eat, and includes meditation exercises and so on.  But I'm sure there are many for whom this approach would be attractive...	1998-01-23
US	52865843	RA4HASTMN5LX2	0385263260	396254603	Coming of Age in the Milky Way	Books	5	18	21	N	N	COSMOS on steroids.	This book is an excellent tour through history of astronomy and astronomers quest to uncover our place (and time) in the universe. Ferris goes into quite a bit of detail and does not treat his readers with kid gloves. There are many interesting anecdotes about various astronomers and Ferris sometimes gives mini biographies of the more interesting/eccentric of them. Ferris starts with the greek astonomers such has hypocratus, goes through copernicus, kepler, galileo, newton, and then onto the astronmers of the last 200 years. But in his final section, he also talks about how the geosciences, and the theory of evolution began to give us a better perspective of where we fit in the universe not just in space but in time. The last chapters are devoted to the cutting edge of science - quantum physics. Ferris reports discoveries up to the point practically that this book was published! All in all, a good read for anyone interested in science and particularly in Astronomy.	1998-01-23
US	52865843	R1WLPZM8GWRCAP	1861000766	672097433	Instant Html Programmer's Reference	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great reference for intermediate to advanced web developers!	This is a great reference for anyone who has gotten the basics of html down to those who are expert web developers. The reference is categorized so you can find information very quickly, and includes information for every tag on whether it is complient with html 4.0, deprecated, whether it works in IE 4.0 or earlier, Netscape 4.0 or earlier. There are additional sections on Javascript and Jscript, CSS, VBScript, and Dynamic HTML. There is detailed coverage of each attribute for each tag. It is written in good clear ENGLISH (as opposed to programming techspeak), but does not insult your intelligence by giving detailed examples of simple tags or attributes - simply describes them clearly and succinctly. Definitely worth the $20!	1998-01-23
US	52865843	R2FLWK6CLYO3ZY	1575210096	115075850	Teach Yourself Cgi Programming With Perl in a Week (Sams Teach Yourself)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Get behind the scenes to see how your scripts really work.	My copy of this book is an earlier edition entitled &quot;Teach Yourself CGI Programming with Perl in 21 Days.&quot; This is good book for those who arleady have some basic knowledge of html and perhaps some experience getting perl scripts to run on a web server. I'm not sure if it would be easy enough for a complete beginner in this area. It was very helpful for me in learning about what goes on behind the scenes when scripts run on a web server, how environment variables work, etc. If you want a clearer understanding of how scripts actually work, get this book. If you are just interested in getting the script to work, and maybe tweaking it a little to your purposes, you probably don't need this.	1998-01-23
US	52865843	RN4OYGXOCI5PN	1861000278	971240319	Beginning Java	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent for beginners to Java or programming in general.	So far this is an excellent book. I've only had time to get through 5 chapters, including an intro to object-oriented design. But so far, the book is simple, streightforward, chock-full of clear examples (though there are some errors here and there, so go to Wrox's web site to get a list - also available there are answers to all the exercises at the end of each chapter). This is a great book for those who don't have experience in object-oriented design, and perhaps not even in programming in general. Horton goes first into the syntax and basic structures of doing basic arithmatic, string manipulation, etc. Once the reader has had 4 chapters of learning about and trying out these functions, only then does he begin to tackle the more daunting subject of object-oriented programming. But by this time, the reader is so familiar with Java's basic syntax, that this topic is not as daunting as it might be if it were introduced in the first or second chapter of a book, like most of them out there.  Now if only Horton/Wrox could come out with a similar text on JavaScript!	1998-01-23
US	52865843	R38RCIYB7DG226	0553278746	957987582	The Postman	Books	4	0	1	N	N	An entertaining look at post-apocolyptic America	This was a pretty entertaining book. A movie based on it came out around Christmas, but I've had this book for years and decided to read it before seeing the movie. It's about a post-apocolyptic America and centers around a protagonist who was in college when World War III broke out. Though things got a bid cheasy toward the end (I won't say how), it was nonetheless a very entertaining read. The story tracks this reluctant hero's treck through Oregon in a bleak landscape of fudile villages and city rubble. His chance finding of a dead postman changes him and is the catalyst behind much of what happens throughout the novel. By the way, the movie, which is now the butt of jokes on Leno almost every night, deserves the jokes - it is a insufferably long, slow movie, terribly acted, with painfully contrived sentimental moments. It's too bad that the book now has this associated with it...	1998-01-23
US	52865843	R2RVAFS6T7B3BM	0672308940	565864546	Teach Yourself Perl 5 in 21 Days (Sams Teach Yourself)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	An excellent way to learn Perl and excellent Perl reference.	I actually have an earlier edition of this book entitled simply &quot;Teach Yourself Perl in 21 Days.&quot; I cannot vouch specifically for the current version, but if it is anything like the one I have, I recommend it to anyone who's trying to learn how to create their own scripts in Perl. The book I have does not go into integrating scripts with the web (which is all I use Perl for), but apparently this new version does. It's a great book for beginning programmers. In fact, this is the first language that I really learned and did so primarily from this book. It takes you step by step with many examples through just about every aspect of the language. I still use it as a reference when trying to debug scripts!	1998-01-23
US	52865843	R31IM1ISL8QFG4	0789710358	793092370	Html Style Sheets Quick Reference (Que Quick Reference Series)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not a great reference, but the most complete one out there.	Not the best reference guide to Style Sheets, but the only one I've found that offers this kind of reference. The book was not organized except alphabetically by item name. Sure the author assigned each item a category like &quot;colors and backgrounds&quot; but there was no list of categories or arrangement of items by category so I'm not sure why he even included the categories to begin with. Besides this, at least half of the 170-odd pages are taken up with references to other related items with the page number for these other items. Useless! If I need to find an item that's related, I can just flip through the book and find it immediately since everything's in alphabetical order. Another dissapointment was that there was no coverage of what tags would work in which browsers. This is copyrighted 1997, so maybe it came out before IE and Netscape 4.0 versions (this seems likely because the only reference and screenshots are of IE 3.01. But as far as I know many of these style sheet items do not work with IE 3.01 but it says nothing about this. Finally, there are a few code examples in the book which seem to be totally random. Either save the paper and don't include any, or include a a whole bunch. Instead there are maybe 3 or 4 scattered throught the entire book and are thus not of much help. Unfortunately, this seems to be the most exhaustive reference devoted solely to style sheets that I've seen out there, including references on the web. I know there are references to HTML 4.0 which include references to to style sheets and wonder how they compare...	1998-01-23
US	52865843	R1158TE0FXTMKZ	0471602906	510549728	Making Progress in Russian, Workbook	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An excellent workbook for improving your fluency.	We used this workbook as a supplement to the textbook for our second year Russian class, but for me this was more enjoyable and useful! It's simplay 16 chapters of sentences. On one side of the page in English, on the other side in Russian, so you can test yourself going either way and the sentences are short enough so that you're not overwhelmed. I used this for years as a way to review or get back into Russian, regain some fluency, etc. It may take 6 or 7 hours to go through the entire workbook, so you can do this easily an hour a day for a week and not get burned out. The sentences are interesting enough and not totally dry so that you are not bored to death as you work through the text. All in all a good book for those who already know some Russian, but want to practice coming up with sentence structures without having to invent their own sentences.	1998-01-23
US	52865843	R2OB8BNOVPMHRB	1575210304	178437528	Teach Yourself Java in 21 Days (Sams Teach Yourself)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Assembly line &quot;Teach Yourself&quot; book doesn't teach clearly.	I tried learning Java from this book and failed. Perhaps I shouldn't blame the book but rather my lack of previous experience with object-oriented programming. In any case, this book did not cover object-oriented design sufficiently or clearly enough for it to click. If you already have this background, perhaps this book would be of more use, but if you are trying to learn Java and have never taken C++, Pascal, or any other object-oriented language, I would look for another book.	1998-01-23
US	52865843	R1N9BS2I5L6H38	0345331354	979388730	Cosmos	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A classic.	This is the classic book that got me interested and excited about science in general and astronomy in particular when I was 12 or 13 years old. I haven't read it in a while, but remember it being an exciting read not just becuase it introduces you to some fundamentals about science, but because Sagan personalizes and humanizes everything in his book, from the ancient astronomers to the possibility of life outside of our solar system. It's a book full of wonderment and hope and optimism for the future, but with cautionary warnings and thoughtful musings.	1998-01-23
US	52865843	R1T4TWKKGFTRA1	0316574732	967175310	Fat Free, Flavor Full: Dr. Gabe Mirkin's Guide to Losing Weight & Living Longer	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An interesting look at nutrition and diet by a talk-show dr.	Dr. Gabe Mirkin and Diana Rich have a talk show in the DC area where he talks about nutrition, diet, medicine, disease, etc. This book covers mainly his philosophy on eating. However, half of the book is a listing of his low-fat, high-fiber recipes, most of which are vegetarian, but some of which have fish and shelfish. Basically Mirkin's philosophy involves eating low-fat, high-fiber foods. You are supposed to eat no more than 20 grams of fat per day. And you are allowed only 2 or 3 serving per day of low-fiber foods(even if they are low in fat), like milk, jam, bread, pretzels, etc. This may seem a harsh regimen, but Mirkin includes some leeway as well: for one or two meals a week you can have whatever you want, which makes eating out much easier; and you can have as many whole grains (whole wheat, barley, oats, etc.), beans, fruits, and vegetables as you want at ANY meal. The idea is that you will never feel deprived because you can always go to the cupboard and eat two cans of beans, a pineapple and a pound of broccolli. Mirkin emphasizes that this will not effect your weight unless you exercise, so this is no magic formula.<br />What I liked so much about this book was how Mirkin describes the science of how fats break down and are absorbed into the body and used, the chemical differences between saturated, mono-saturated and poly-unsaturated fat, and how curbing fat and calorie intake can not only elleviate many of the health problems that we already associate with obesity (such as heart disease), but can actually cure other problems such as adult-onset diabedes, high blood pressure, etc. If you're not into dieting or healthy eating, it's at least interesting as a scientific look (albeit at a layman's level) at food and how the body is affected by it.	1998-01-23
US	52865843	R1HJC3MDHZNBZN	0764501771	93190829	Lotus Domino for Dummies	Books	3	4	6	N	N	A good but very general introduction to Domino	This is a good book for those not very technical and/or those who want a gentle intro to Lotus Domino.  But for those wanting a comprehensive course, this is not the book for you.  Not very many examples are given, and I would say about half of the 360 or so pages are wasted with unnecessary screen captures and extruciatingly detailed instructions on how to, for example, create a form, but with no details about what to put in that form, just on how to create the form itself.  These instructions are repeated verbatim every time the author involves a similar step in some other description, instead of just saying &quot;refer to page ...&quot; though he does do this once or twice.	1997-10-30
US	52865843	RD77XMFQG5WEZ	1862040141	254511183	God's Secret Formula: Deciphering the Riddle of the Universe and the Prime Number Code	Books	5	13	20	N	Y	A breathless hunt for connections that bind us to the cosmos	First let me preface my review by admitting that I've only read half of this book, but I did this in 8 hours streight after happening accross it in a local Border's Books and Music.  I will undoubtedly have to add to this review once I finish the rest of this wonderfully entreagueing work, which I'm sure will happen soon!<br /><br />The book is essentially an autobiography of Dr. Peter Plichta's life as a scientist, and how he branched from his primary interest in pure chemistry into physical chemisty, biochemistry, nuclear chemistry, pharmacology, and theoritical physics, and the connections he made progressively along the way between biological phenomena, and natural and physical laws.<br /><br /> For example, Plichta sites that there are 19 &quot;left-oriented&quot; amino acids, and one &quot;right-oriented&quot; one which comprise the building blocks for every protien that exists in every living organism.  There are also, out of the 81 stable, non-radioactive elements, 20 elements that have a single isotope -  19 have odd molecular numbers and 1 has an even molecular number.  He also draws a connection between the inverse square law of gravitation force (ie as objects get more distant their mutual gravitational attraction decreases as an inverse square of that distance - 1/r^2) and the fact that in the first four orbital layers that electrons exist around atoms, there's a squaring effect in that on the first layer (closest to the atom), one pair exists, on the second four, on the third nine, and on the fourth 16.  He makes continuous inferences to the abundance of three's found in nature and also the 3+1 configuration.  Another interesting pattern that repeats itself is that of the number 273.  Absolute zero is -273 degrees Celsius, 273 is also the number of days in the term of a human pregnancy and each lunar month is 27.3 days.  He hints at the significance os prime numbers but halfway through the book has not linked them to any of these other connections per se.  Plichta even ventures into planetary science by making the point that the moon is not a sattelite at all, but rather twin planet - since it was formed from part of the earth and not simply captured as a completely foreign body as with the moons of the gas giants.  I suppose this would complement his patterns of threes and 3+1(or 4)'s as the earth would alternate between being the 3rd planet and the fourth depending on what part of the orbit the moon was in.<br /><br /> What made this such a hard book to put down is that Plichta does not put all his cards down on the table in the first chapter or even in the first half of the book, but strings the reader along with fascinating connections like the ones above in addition to the continuous recountings of how his discoveries and enlightenments progressed, and how his knowledge increased and enabled him to make these connections.<br /><br /> From only reading half the book, his thesis seems to be something akin to the idea that all these connections, these dualities, and patterns that are repeated uncannily throughout the<br /> biological, chemical, physical, and even linguistic and psychological worlds could not have been mere coincidence and so are good grounds for positing the existance of a conscious designer of physical laws and biological entities and in particular human beings. Someone or something that understood how numbers work and could create these patterns and connections at will.<br /><br /> There is a good deal of technical information in the book, mostly about chemistry, which, though some is explained, is not &quot;dumbed down.&quot;  This adds to the impression that Plichta is addressing his readers as competant thinkers.  This is fortunate because a great deal of the autobiographical detail in this book, though perhaps factually 100% correct, sometimes gives one the impression that Plichta is a bit too taken with his intellect.<br /><br /> I am not a scientist by trade or hobby, though I have taken limited studies in physics and chemistry.  I would recommend this book to those with a layman's interest in science and perhaps to true scientists as well.sics and chemistry.  I would recommend this book to those with a layman's interest in science and perhaps to true scientists as well.	1997-05-04
